---
title: "8.04 image on a 10.04 UEC cloud intsallation."
date: 2010-08-22
forum: Ubuntu Cloud and Juju
---

### Post by pnunn on 2010-08-22
Hi guys,

I'm after some help here getting an 8.04 instance running on my newnly installed UEC cloud.

I've got everything setup and running on an image downloaded from the store, but there are no 8.04 images there.

I have been digging around all over the place and come up with the image from [http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/hardy/current/](http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/hardy/current/) which I have downloaded onto my cloud controller, but when I try and install it with uec-publish-tarball it complains about no kernel or ramdisk images (which are not in the tar ball).

I'm at a loss to work out where I get them from to install.  I assume I can't use the ones from my running system as there 10.04, so where do I go from here?

Thanks in advance.

Peter.[RIGHT][/RIGHT]

---

### Post by smoser on 2010-08-23
Hi,
   The build process that we have in place for hardy pre-dates UEC.  It came into being when there was only EC2.  As such, by default, our hardy images don't have a kernel installed inside them for UEC like images of karmic, lucid, maverick do.
   I wasn't comfortable modifying the hardy images that we're producing on EC2 to add an appropriate kernel for UEC.
   That said, I just checked in a script I wrote to "uecify" a hardy image.  You can get it in the 'automated-ec2-builds' bzr repository (bzr branch lp:~ubuntu-on-ec2/vmbuilder/automated-ec2-builds) or see it at [1].

   Usage should be fairly simple:
      tar -Sxvzf hardy-server-uec-i386.tar.gz
      uecify-hardy hardy-server-uec-i386.img

   That will pull a kernel/ramdisk and copy them out of the image and provide you a command to then publish the image,kernel, ramdisk using uec-publish-image.

   One other thing to note is that the link you pointed at [http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/hardy/current/](http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/hardy/current/) is to daily builds.  The released versions of hardy builds are available under [2] .  The daily images are built with the same process as the released images, and surely we have faith in our SRU process, but they have not been given test time.

[1] [http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-on-ec2/vmbuilder/automated-ec2-builds/annotate/head%3A/uecify-hardy](http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-on-ec2/vmbuilder/automated-ec2-builds/annotate/head%3A/uecify-hardy)
[2] [http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/releases/hardy/](http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/releases/hardy/)

---

### Post by pnunn on 2010-08-23
Thank you so much smozer I was beginning to think I was going crazy.  I'll give the script a run and see how we get on.

Thanks again.

Peter.

---

### Post by Rusty au Lait on 2010-08-24
Same here Smoser. This looks great. Tks

---

### Post by Rusty au Lait on 2010-08-31
So. The download went great. Got the build script. A few missteps; must run it w/ sudo, it kept logging me out when it failed, cron I think. Even elasticFox saw it right away. I didn't start with default size (m1.small). c1.large works. Tks again Smoser

---

### Post by Rusty au Lait on 2010-08-31
>

---

### Post by siteregsam on 2010-09-04
> **pnunn said:**
> Hi guys,

I'm after some help here getting an 8.04 instance running on my newnly installed UEC cloud.

I've got everything setup and running on an image downloaded from the store, but there are no 8.04 images there.

I have been digging around all over the place and come up with the image from [http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/hardy/current/](http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/hardy/current/) which I have downloaded onto my cloud controller, but when I try and install it with uec-publish-tarball it complains about no kernel or ramdisk images (which are not in the tar ball).

I'm at a loss to work out where I get them from to install.  I assume I can't use the ones from my running system as there 10.04, so where do I go from here?

Thanks in advance.

Peter.

Hi Pnunn, 

I am happy that u succeeded in setting up cloud.
I am trying to setup a private cloud inside my college lab. I had installed UEC(shipped along with Server edition 10.04). __
I used two systems, one running node controller and the second running other controllers. 
I got connected to Internet through proxy. And i configured network connection while installing UEC.
I got connected to Eucalyptus through browser. 
When  i browse the tab "Store" i can't find any pre-created images as said in   [http://forum.eucalyptus.com/forum/ubuntu-enterprise-cloud-uec-eucalyptus-and-ubuntu](http://forum.eucalyptus.com/forum/ubuntu-enterprise-cloud-uec-eucalyptus-and-ubuntu)
I kindly request u to help me thro' this Pnunn....

Some screen shots of what i got...

[IMG]http://hosting11.imagecross.com/image-hosting-47/1815Images.jpeg[/IMG]



[IMG]http://hosting11.imagecross.com/image-hosting-47/7548Store.jpeg[/IMG]

---

### Post by pnunn on 2010-09-05
I don't know what the issue is there.

Do you have a firewall somewhere blocking access to the outside world?

On my system, it takes a little while, but I get 6 images in the store to choose from.

Peter.

---

### Post by siteregsam on 2010-09-06
Ok Peter. Let me try using direct IP...
Thanks...

---

### Post by Rusty au Lait on 2010-09-06
I got connected to Internet through proxy. And i configured network connection while installing UEC.

I'm not sure which ports are used to access the store. If you have a proxy server then your own host might have restrictions on it too. Check the iptable.

---

### Post by siteregsam on 2010-09-06
ok Rusty au Lait, let me try....
Thanks..
[COLOR=Black][U][URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1060671"]
[/URL][/U][/COLOR]

---

### Post by baboli on 2010-09-08
I installed two NC's on two machine and the rest of the component on another. Installation went just fine. Now I am trying to bring up the a m1.small image but I that after a few seconds the instance goes into "terminated" state. Here is how I run the instance:
$ euca-run-instances eri-D9A9186A --kernel eki-4231163D --ramdisk eri-D9A9186A -k mykey -t m1.small --addressing private

In about 15 seconds:
$euca-describe-instances 
RESERVATION     r-3A330727      admin   default
INSTANCE        i-2FD70680      eri-D9A9186A    172.19.1.2      172.19.1.2      pending mykey   0              m1.small 2010-09-08T19:53:23.798Z        cluster1        eki-4231163D    eri-D9A9186A

In about 30 seconds:
$ euca-describe-instances 
RESERVATION     r-3A330727      admin   default
INSTANCE        i-2FD70680      eri-D9A9186A    172.19.1.2      172.19.1.2      terminated      mykey   0      m1.small 2010-09-08T19:53:23.798Z        cluster1        eki-4231163D    eri-D9A9186A

As you can see, the instance moved to "terminated" instead of running.
What do you think I should look for?
Thanks,

---

### Post by Rusty au Lait on 2010-09-08
I had a problem with instances terminating with m1.small and it work fine when I gave it more room. (c.medium). Do the logs in CL and NC show any reasons?

---

