---
title: "Have MAAS figured out, but can't seem to install openstack or juju."
date: 2015-02-13
forum: Ubuntu Cloud and Juju
---

### Post by pepsifx357 on 2015-02-13
I've got MAAS installed with 6 nodes commisioned and started.  Right now they all say "deployed,"  but when I try to run the openstack-install it keeps saying it can't find any nodes and can't continue.  I've tried both the landscape install and the multi install.  When I try to install juju it says.

```
ben@KVM-Host:~$ juju bootstrap
Bootstrapping environment "juju"
Starting new instance for initial state server
Launching instance
WARNING no architecture was specified, acquiring an arbitrary node
Bootstrap failed, destroying environment
ERROR failed to bootstrap environment: cannot start bootstrap instance: cannot run instances: cannot run instances: gomaasapi: got error back from server: 409 CONFLICT (No available node matches constraints: zone=default)
```

here's my yaml
```
ben@KVM-Host:~$ cat .juju/environments.yaml 
# This file has been generated by juju quickstart v1.6.0
# at 2015-02-09 13:01:10 UTC.

default: juju
environments:
  juju:
    admin-secret: secret
    default-series: trusty
    maas-oauth: sKRQRG98Ud4XTNsMZM:Fk7kenXjz9ExkhAZW2:gSQkwrTQZhLRfxwEmBJS8AKpzdnp2h8K
    maas-server: http://127.0.0.1:80/MAAS
    type: maas

authorized-keys-path: ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub 

```

Anyone know what the deal is?

---

### Post by pepsifx357 on 2015-02-14
Maybe I should ask this.....What machine are you supposed to setup juju and openstack on?  The MAAS server?  The nodes?  A totally seperate server?  I'm a little confused here.

---

### Post by christophe-caillet on 2015-02-16
Hi,

When you want to bootstrap your juju server the nodes MUST BE "ready" and not deployed. In fact, it's logical to attribute the juju node to a ready node. A deployed node is considered by MAAS as a node already with a service on it so unable to bootstrap a juju on an already configured node right ?

For exemple I use the tutorial when trying to deploy my Openstack with juju and I do the following :

1- Commissioning a node vjuju
2- Initializing my juju environment with juju init
3- Modifying the environments.yaml file with default to MAAS and updating the MAAS parameters
4- Bootstrapping my juju server with the command : juju bootstrap --to vjuju

You must ensure that your MAAS server can act as a gateay to internet for retrieving the the files from internet if you get those files directly on juju charm store.

Hope that it helps you.

Regards
Christophe Caillet

---

### Post by pepsifx357 on 2015-02-16
Yeah, I assumed they all of the nodes needed to be turned on, so you helped me out there.  I'm trying to install openstack on the MAAS server right now.  After I put the nodes' state to ready, the installer went through finally.  The installer started a node and is stuck bootstrapping juju.  Any idea how long it's supposed to take?

Nevermind...it failed.  The commands.log is so vague.  I have no clue why it didn't work.

---

### Post by christophe-caillet on 2015-02-17
Hi,

You must ensure that your MAAS deployment subnet has a gateway which permit to nodes to have internet access. 

The following URL describe howto do an Openstack deployment with MAAS and juju.

[http://www.teale.de/tealeg/computing/cloud/kvm_maas_juju_openstack.html](http://www.teale.de/tealeg/computing/cloud/kvm_maas_juju_openstack.html)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/OpenStackHA](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/OpenStackHA)

I use also the following rules to masquerade properly my virtual nodes :

echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_dynaddr

iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING --source 192.168.1.0/24 -o br2 -j MASQUERADE
iptables -t filter -A FORWARD -i br2 -o br0 -m conntrack --ctstate ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
iptables -t filter -A FORWARD -i br0 -o br2 -j ACCEPT
iptables -t filter -A FORWARD -j LOG

here br2 is the interface of the MAAS server that act as the gateway and br0 is the interface with internet access.

Hope it helps.

Regards
Christophe Caillet

---

### Post by sdudley on 2015-03-14
Have you made any progress with this? From the various and often outdated or assuming MAAS and Juju documentation that's available, I believe Juju installs itself on a separate node, one of the nodes that are in a 'ready' state in MAAS.

With MAAS operating and the nodes declared, commissioned and in a 'ready' state:

juju-quickstart -i  # juju-quickstart is the juju for juju in my opinion. Thank goodness someone reached the conclusion that mere mortals might be attempting to use MAAS/Juju
[https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/clouddocs/en/Installing-Juju.html]("https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/clouddocs/en/Installing-Juju.html")

[LIST=1]
[*]Juju requests a node,
[*]MAAS provides a node from the list of 'ready' nodes.
[*]MAAS boots the node and installs the Ubuntu image you’ve set in MAAS.
[*]Once the node has been created, Juju attempts to connect via SSH and install Juju...which is as far as I've made it before I receive an "unable to connect to node" error after 10 minutes in juju.
[/LIST]
As one of the lower wattage bulb sysadmins from a large corporation considering bare metal provisioning systems, I have sunk hours...days into trying to figure out how MAAS and JUJU operate and if not for a slightly maniacal curiosity and the almost daily repo updates to MAAS and JUJU components, I would have thrown my hands up long ago.

---

