---
title: "12.04 MAAS install, not seeing maas-enlist in pxe bootup"
date: 2012-12-31
forum: Ubuntu Cloud and Juju
---

### Post by mverrilli on 2012-12-31
From what I read, I should have a default PXE bootup called maas-enlist.  Please correct me if I am wrong.  My intent is to have a MAAS server running, and having a subnet which when I boot pxe, it enlists the nodes automatically.  I have been able to get PXE on the node to boot up from the MAAS server, but I do not see the maas-enlist in the options.  Default is (local). 

Since this is my first time doing this, I don't know exactly what I'm looking for.  I see docs online, but it's hard to tell if what I am looking at is for 12.10 or 12.04, since there appears to be significant changes between those versions.

Here are the steps I have taken: 

1. Fresh install of MAAS server from media. 
2. First boot
3. Configured second network adaptor for static ip.
4. dpkg-reconfigure maas to use the second adaptor.
5. maas createsuperuser 
6. apt-get install maas-dhcp maas-enlist   # not sure maas-enlist is necessary
7. maas-import-iso-files

No errors in any of the above steps.  I can access the maas dashboard, and see 0 nodes.

I plug in a second computer on the subnet (set to pxe boot) and it says "MAAS Ubuntu" on top and shows a list...

```
(local)
maas-precise-i386
maas-precise-i386-commissioning
maas-precise-x86_64
maas-precise-x86_64-commissioning
precise-i386
precise-i386-auto
precise-x86_64
precise-x86_64-auto
```

All of which I see in /var/lib/tftpboot/pxelinux.cfg/default

If I select maas-precise-i386, it will go through an install.  Eventually I get an error.  But while researching this, I found that I should see "maas-enlist" as a default, not local so I'm thinking something is wrong?

---

### Post by mverrilli on 2013-01-02
Just to follow up on this issue, I was able to get my 12.10 maas install working, so I won't be needing any help with this.

---

### Post by djieno on 2013-04-16
HI Could you tell us how you did that? I experience the same issue...

---

### Post by mverrilli on 2013-04-16
I couldn't get 12.04 working so I moved to 12.10 and that worked better.

---

