---
title: "Ubuntu for kids, no internet"
date: 2008-10-07
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by lian1238 on 2008-10-07
Hi guys.

For summer break, I'd be going back home for a visit. I'd like to bring along a CD of Ubuntu to install for my younger bro and sis, 7 and 4, on the home computer. They don't have any internet connection (and no, they cannot get it. The only thing available is GPRS, which is expensive and it's too much trouble for them to connect through a mobile phone via bluetooth, and it's very slow.)

What I'd like to do is install Ubuntu Hardy, then install the Edubuntu add-on for them. I'd also like to install "the usual", such as mp3 codecs, DVD codecs,.. all those things that Ubuntu can't bundle due to copyright. How can I go about doing this the simplest and fastest way possible?

Thanks.

---

### Post by mohamedafattah on 2008-10-07
Try AptOnCD, it is in the repository, you can get the deb (I mean the deb of aptoncd itself with all of its dependencies, which I think on Ubuntu nothing) and the iso generated by the program in order to install them on their machine.

What about putting the deb files for all those additions you need in the apt-get cache directory itself? I did it once and it was safe, but I am not sure about how safe it is.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2008-10-07
not exactly what you are looking for, but still may be benificial for you:
[URL="http://live.linux-gamers.net/"]
http://live.linux-gamers.net/[/URL]
> 
# top free native linux games! 
# high performance video card drivers (not preinstalled, but very easy to install):

    * properitery nvidia drivers for nvidia tnt - geforce8xxx included.
    * properitary ati driver (radeon 9600+ supported). 

# open source drivers with 3d acceleration for many other video cards
# harddisk is not touched!
# savegames and configuratoins can be stored on an usbstick and restored
# nothing needs to be configured, everything is done automatically 

i can confirm that i had fun with it, and it ran fine on my laptop :)

---

### Post by Liviu-Theodor on 2008-10-07
You could buy or download one of the dvd's (ubuntu/kubuntu/edubuntu). They are available on the ubuntu download page or on shipit. I understand they content the whole standard and restricted repository (maybe I am wrong here?).

---

### Post by lian1238 on 2008-10-07
Thanks for your replies.

@mohamedafattah: Yes I've heard of APTonCD. I might try that from a LiveCD.

@earthpigg: Not *exactly*. Remember that these are kids, and they know little English, I forgot to mention. And I'd like to install everything on the computer. I'd give it a go myself when I feel bored.

@Liviu-Theodor: Thanks. I was looking into the DVD and wondering what more they contain. If they contain the restricted mp3 and DVD codecs, then perfect! I'm going to download it.

---

### Post by barbedsaber on 2008-10-07
Im not sure if it will work, but try [http://www.pendrivelinux.com/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/)
you can modify the install on the flash drive, with new apps and stuff. There is still an install icon, and it is quite possible that it will install a clone of the persistent install on the flash drive.
You could set up an install, on the flash drive, with the codecs and stuff, and then install from that. I am not positive if it will clone the isnt all onto the computer though, so you may want to do some research first.

---

### Post by speedwell68 on 2008-10-07
Use LinuxMint 5.  It is based on Hardy and all of the 'non free' codec type stuff that you speak of is preinstalled.

---

### Post by lian1238 on 2008-10-07
> **speedwell68 said:**
> Use LinuxMint 5.  It is based on Hardy and all of the 'non free' codec type stuff that you speak of is preinstalled.
Thanks. Can I install the Edubuntu add-on in LinuxMint 5?

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2008-10-07
> **lian1238 said:**
> Thanks. Can I install the Edubuntu add-on in LinuxMint 5?

it uses the ubuntu repositories and claims to be fully compatible... but ive never tried it. cruise on over to their forums and take a look :)

---

### Post by Liviu-Theodor on 2008-10-07
> **lian1238 said:**
> Thanks. Can I install the Edubuntu add-on in LinuxMint 5?

Linux Mint seems to be based on kubuntu (KDE desktop), in fact kubuntu plus multimedia codecs. I have heard there is also a Linux Mint based on ubuntu (gnome desktop). But will not have the whole ubuntu repository on its dvd. Probably you can install Edubuntu Add-on.

---

### Post by lian1238 on 2008-10-12
I've just tried the Ubuntu Hardy DVD, but can't install the codecs. It says cannot fetch packages or something. As if I were running from LiveCD, w/o internet. So I guess the DVD does not contain the restricted software.

I guess my choices are:

[LIST=1]
[*]get a distro with pre-installed codecs.
[*]use APTonCD
[*]find the packages manually, but I am not sure if that's possible. I tried looking for libdvdcss2 at [http://packages.ubuntu.com/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/) but couldn't find it. Unless it's now libdvdread3 in Hardy?
[/LIST]

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2008-10-12
> **lian1238 said:**
> I've just tried the Ubuntu Hardy DVD, but can't install the codecs. It says cannot fetch packages or something. As if I were running from LiveCD, w/o internet. So I guess the DVD does not contain the restricted software.

I guess my choices are:

[LIST=1]
[*]get a distro with pre-installed codecs.
[*]use APTonCD
[*]find the packages manually, but I am not sure if that's possible. I tried looking for libdvdcss2 at [http://packages.ubuntu.com/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/) but couldn't find it. Unless it's now libdvdread3 in Hardy?
[/LIST]

what took Mint out of the lineup of choices?

bring along their standard live CD, and another CD/DVD filled with .deb files of all the games and stuff you want.

oh, and no one mentioned [Ultimate Edition ]("http://ultimateedition.info/")in this thread yet. Formerly called "Ubuntu Ultimate Edition". essentially, they rebuild every Ubuntu release with everything and the kitchen sink pre-installed.

yes, their site has a horrible layout.

---

### Post by lian1238 on 2008-10-12
> **earthpigg said:**
> what took Mint out of the lineup of choices?
Oh yeah, I forgot to mention that one.
> **earthpigg said:**
> 
oh, and no one mentioned [Ultimate Edition ]("http://ultimateedition.info/")in this thread yet. Formerly called "Ubuntu Ultimate Edition". essentially, they rebuild every Ubuntu release with everything and the kitchen sink pre-installed.

yes, their site has a horrible layout.
I myself use Ultimate Edition. I liked it at first but later I found that it had so much junk that I didn't need (lots of themes I didn't like, many programs for the same purpose). I spend quite a while uninstalling unneeded applications. And I had forgotten that it had the codecs pre-installed! :lolflag:

I think I'll take that DVD with me back home, once I get it back from a friend. I'll take a Mint with me too, just in case I don't get time to install a DVD drive.

Thanks for the suggestions guys. If you have any other suggestions, you can still add them.

---

### Post by lian1238 on 2008-10-17
Can I do this: Install Ubuntu normally. Then use the Ubuntu Ultimate Edition to install the restricted codecs? I know it is possible, but how? Add the UE DVD to the software sources?

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2008-10-17
Why not have a look at remastersys. You make a clean install of ubuntu, configure it how you like, install apps, codecs etc till you have it exactly how you want it. Then use remastersys to create a live cd of your own configuration.

Not tried it myself.

[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/creating-custom-ubuntu-live-cd-with-remastersys.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/creating-custom-ubuntu-live-cd-with-remastersys.html)

These instructions are probably outdated.

---

