---
title: "386 Vs. 686"
date: 2006-07-27
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Zodiac on 2006-07-27
Is it worth it to install the 686 Kernel rather than the 386 one?

Is it difficult to do if it is worth it?

---

### Post by tribaal on 2006-07-27
Yes, it is worth it, especially if you have a desktop computer (the 686 kernel tends to make laptops overheat). i686 is much faster than i386 on modern computers.

Installation is really easy. Just search for "linux-image" in synaptic, and you'll find a kernel package. Installing it is not more difficult than installing anything else, except that you'll have to reboot to use your new kernel...

- trib'

---

### Post by ComplexNumber on 2006-07-27
> **Zodiac said:**
> Is it worth it to install the 686 Kernel rather than the 386 one?

Is it difficult to do if it is worth it?
if you have a pentium 4 or AMD 64, then you have to install a i686 kernel, i've led to believe.

---

### Post by Zodiac on 2006-07-27
I do have a laptop, with a Pentium M processor...

I was thinking about installing it the other day... Do you simple select it and the restricted modules and hit apply?

Will it automatically uninstall my current kernel?

---

### Post by givré on 2006-07-27
Be carefull, don't install only linux-image-686 but linux-686, otherwise you could have problem on upgrade.

EDIT: linux-686 will install for you linux-image & linux-restricted-module, and will take care of upgrade.

---

### Post by cstudent on 2006-07-27
> **Zodiac said:**
> I do have a laptop, with a Pentium M processor...

I was thinking about installing it the other day... Do you simple select it and the restricted modules and hit apply?

Will it automatically uninstall my current kernel?

It won't uninstall your current kernel, but will chose i686 as the default. I would leave the i386 kernel installed for a little while to make sure you don't have problems with the i686 kernel. If all is well then you can safely uninstall the i386 kernel.

---

### Post by prizrak on 2006-07-27
> **tribaal said:**
> Yes, it is worth it, especially if you have a desktop computer (the 686 kernel tends to make laptops overheat). i686 is much faster than i386 on modern computers.

Installation is really easy. Just search for "linux-image" in synaptic, and you'll find a kernel package. Installing it is not more difficult than installing anything else, except that you'll have to reboot to use your new kernel...

- trib'

It is NOT much faster on modern computers. The Pentium M for instance works like crap with it. I installed it on mine and the system slowed down to a crawl. Booted into 386 and it was flying again. 

Complex Number,
Whoever told you that was wrong, you can use the 386 kernel on a P4 and an AMD64 just fine. In fact I saw no difference in speed between the two on my P4 laptop. For AMD64 you need the 64 bit kernel (K8) but in Dapper it is no longer available in repos as there is a purely 64 bit version

General Info,
To install a new kernel do a sudo apt-get install linux-<archtype>. (i.e. linux-686 for the 686 kernel). That is a meta package that will install all of the 686 kernel modules as well as have the update manager update you with the 686 kernel instead of the 386. The old kernel will not be removed it will be kept alongside the new one but the new one will be set as default in GRUB.

---

### Post by Zodiac on 2006-07-27
> **prizrak said:**
> It is NOT much faster on modern computers. The Pentium M for instance works like crap with it. I installed it on mine and the system slowed down to a crawl. Booted into 386 and it was flying again.

I thought so, I had heard that same assertion from someone else, but I thought I would ask just to be sure I wasn't missing out on any hawt hawtness...

---

### Post by GuitarHero on 2006-07-27
I have an AMD64 X2 dual core processor and Im using 32 bit right now.  Would it be worth it with my processor to bump up to 64 bit?  Will this affect any of my programs?

---

### Post by ComplexNumber on 2006-07-27
>  Whoever told you that was wrong, you can use the 386 kernel on a P4 and an AMD64 just fine. it was from the suse(i think. or gentoo) forum about a year ago.

---

### Post by Miguel on 2006-07-27
> **GuitarHero said:**
> I have an AMD64 X2 dual core processor and Im using 32 bit right now.  Would it be worth it with my processor to bump up to 64 bit?  Will this affect any of my programs?

The main issue there is that going to the 64 bit kernel requires switching to a 64bit OS, AFAIK. Will this grant you an advantage? It depends. Most commercial and closed source programs are x86_32, so you have a hard time to make them work on a 64 bit system. 

Things such as flash or w32 codecs will have you learn the subtleties of chroot environments. However, if you don't use proprietary stuff, your system will be faster. Especially if you do heavy double precision computing (call if DFT, CFD, whatever).

---

### Post by brentoboy on 2006-07-27
> **GuitarHero said:**
> I have an AMD64 X2 dual core processor and Im using 32 bit right now.  Would it be worth it with my processor to bump up to 64 bit?  Will this affect any of my programs?

unless you take the 64 bit plunge, and install ubuntu-amd64.  you cant install the "correct" kernel.

I use the 686 SMP kernel as it supports using both cores of the processor.

I would take the 64 bit plunge if your pc is not primarily used as a desktop.  binay codecs dont work in 64 bit mode, because they are generally built as 32 bit binaries.

there are lots of little apps that dont have good clean 64 bit support (more buggy than actual problems)

this is not true for serious server type software, like apache, mysql, samba, ... etc.   those apps get a decent boost from going with the full blown 6 bit OS.   And the maintainers of these packages care VERY MUCH about how well they run in 64 bit environments.

---

### Post by GuitarHero on 2006-07-27
Well I'll stick with 32bit then from what it sounds.  Dual core doesn't need any other sort of kernel to take full advantage of the dual cores does it?

---

### Post by brentoboy on 2006-07-27
> **GuitarHero said:**
> Well I'll stick with 32bit then from what it sounds.  Dual core doesn't need any other sort of kernel to take full advantage of the dual cores does it?

it needs one that supports smp
(symetric multi processing)

use the description field in synaptic to help narrow down which kernels have it (you might have to enable description info in the settings area of synaptic)

---

### Post by teet on 2006-07-27
> **Zodiac said:**
> Is it worth it to install the 686 Kernel rather than the 386 one?

Is it difficult to do if it is worth it?

It's not difficult to do as others have pointed out.  It won't uninstall your current kernel.  I've never seen much of a performance increase going to the 686 kernel though.

For whatever reason, my laptop started kind of spazzing out the other day.  It has the speed-stepping thing.  The applet on my toolbar said my laptop was kicking down properly, however 'cat /proc/cpuinfo' showed my processor was at full blast 100% of the time...very strange.  I "downgraded" to the latest 386 kernel and everything seems to be jogging along smoothly now.  I'll probably try the 686 kernel on it again later.

-teet

---

### Post by frodon on 2006-07-27
BTW, for those who own an AMD64 with ubuntu 32 bit the suitable kernel is the k7 kernel so if you own an AMD64 with ubuntu 32 bit you would rather use the k7 kernel than the i686.

---

### Post by JoWilly on 2006-07-27
> **Miguel said:**
> 

Things such as flash or w32 codecs will have you learn the subtleties of chroot environments. However, if you don't use proprietary stuff, your system will be faster. 

Nope, chroot is absolutely not need on dapper64.

32bit deb files install perfectly with dpkg -i --force-achitecture.

32bit flash also works very ealsiy if you install the 32bit firefox (it also works on firefox64 with easy tricks, check the 64bit section).

---

### Post by Miguel on 2006-07-28
> **teet said:**
> 
For whatever reason, my laptop started kind of spazzing out the other day.  It has the speed-stepping thing.  The applet on my toolbar said my laptop was kicking down properly, however 'cat /proc/cpuinfo' showed my processor was at full blast 100% of the time.


Thanks for the note. I have just checked and it happens the same for my system. Applet shows 600MHz while /proc/cpuinfo tells me it's at 1.7GHz. Installing i386 kernel right now. Is it just me or does this look like a bug?

*EDIT* It **is** a bug. Check [this](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/36014)

---

### Post by brentoboy on 2006-07-28
after hearing about the "snappier 386" kernel on your laptop, I installed it just to see if it took care of the slow animation that happens when a new application window is launched and the 386 kernel really does do that much much faster.  I imagine that other things are working better to.

I'm guessing this is a laptop only issue (or a pentium-m issue)

I dont think p3s and p4s will have the same issues (that is 100% speculation)

---

### Post by brentoboy on 2006-07-28
> **JoWilly said:**
> 
32bit deb files install perfectly with dpkg -i --force-achitecture.

32bit flash also works very ealsiy if you install the 32bit firefox (it also works on firefox64 with easy tricks, check the 64bit section).

Sounds like a perfect project for my upcomming weekend.
switch the main PC over to amd64 instead of i386 and install all the codecs to make sure it works.

if it works, then I can have finally have my amd64 chip doing what I bougt it to do rather than just being a really fast 686 processor.

-cool

if I have a chance, and I remember too, I will post my findings here.

---

### Post by NESFreak on 2006-07-28
synaptic says.
686
> Complete Linux kernel on PPro/Celeron/PII/PIII/PIV.
This package will always depend on the latest complete Linux kernel available
for Pentium Pro/Celeron/Pentium II/Pentium III/Pentium IV.

686 more than one processor
> Complete Linux kernel on PPro/Celeron/PII/PIII/PIV SMP.
This package will always depend on the latest complete Linux kernel available
for Pentium Pro/Celeron/Pentium II/Pentium III/Pentium IV with SMP support.
SMP (symmetric multi-processing) is needed if you have multiple processors.

K7
> Complete Linux kernel on AMD K7.
This package will always depend on the latest complete Linux kernel available
for AMD Duron/Athlon.

K7 more than one processor
> Complete Linux kernel on AMD K7 SMP.
This package will always depend on the latest complete Linux kernel available
for AMD Duron/Athlon with SMP support.
SMP (symmetric multi-processing) is needed if you have multiple processors.

it provides you all kinds of optimizations like bigger ram and SSE and stuff.

---

### Post by prizrak on 2006-07-28
> **brentoboy said:**
> after hearing about the "snappier 386" kernel on your laptop, I installed it just to see if it took care of the slow animation that happens when a new application window is launched and the 386 kernel really does do that much much faster.  I imagine that other things are working better to.

I'm guessing this is a laptop only issue (or a pentium-m issue)

I dont think p3s and p4s will have the same issues (that is 100% speculation)

It is a Pentium M issue only. I have a P4 laptop along with a PM laptop and the P4 runs 686 just fine (no noticeable speedup tho).

> it provides you all kinds of optimizations like bigger ram and SSE and stuff.

Not too sure about the RAM but I know that kernel never uses SSE :) In reality it's mostly up to applications to use stuff like that. For instance there is Mplayer 686 in the repos that is optimized for 686.

---

### Post by hotdoog on 2006-07-31
Hi,
this seems to be the right topic.

So I guess i have the wrong ubuntu installed?

I discovered this trying to install the cube desktop thing: xgl/compiz. i used [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=133427](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=133427) until i got to step #4 where it told me my dpkg amd64 didn't match my i386 system

however, *uname -a* said
*Linux douglass 2.6.15-26-386 #1 PREEMPT Mon Jul 17 19:52:53 UTC 2006 i686 GNU/Li nux*

which says 686?

and
rusl@douglass:~$ [I]cat /proc/cpuinfo
processor       : 0
vendor_id       : AuthenticAMD
cpu family      : 15
model           : 75
model name      : AMD Athlon(tm) 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 3800+
stepping        : 2
cpu MHz         : 2010.523
cache size      : 512 KB
fdiv_bug        : no
hlt_bug         : no
f00f_bug        : no
coma_bug        : no
fpu             : yes
fpu_exception   : yes
cpuid level     : 1
wp              : yes
flags           : fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 ht syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt lm 3dnowext 3dnow pni cx16 lahf_lm cmp_legacy
bogomips        : 4026.09[/I]

so i guess I need to install a K7 AMD kernel because it can do both? Or I need to upgrade to an entirely new ubuntu version, which I don't know how to do.

Umm, I'm a total linux newbie. I just knew those commands because my friend on IRC told me them.

is it worth it for me to change things? Maybe I should give up on the cube thing because it is extravagant? i don't know about 64bit, that seems complex

i just got this computer 2 weeks ago new as a present from my mom. And i installed the ubuntu CD my friend sent me. It's been a steep learning curve.

I do like it a lot better than M$. It is more stable. Though Cinelerra fsck'ed up my disk. I have some weird issue about not having the key for some package list. And of course the permissions are always wrong and confusing.

but i like it. It is a cool system. And it is so good to see this whole community. I feel like I'm learning a lot.

I just wish i got more sleep and spent more time outside.

Anyways, that's for being awesome linux geeks. The world needs more open sharing of ideas and this whole high tech project is inspiring.

~rusl

---

### Post by Stu09 on 2006-08-01
Mate, from what I've read in this thread, I think you should install the K7 SMP kernel. It's the 'optimised' 32-bit one for the Athlon X2.

EDIT: I just read [THIS](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=193551&highlight=k7+smp) and it turns out that SMP is built into the kernels these days. So you can just ```
sudo apt-get install linux-k7
```:D

---

### Post by kpurcell on 2006-08-02
I too have a Pentium M and when I installed the 686 it made my system slow.

How do I remove it ... in Synaptic?

---

### Post by givré on 2006-08-02
> **kpurcell said:**
> I too have a Pentium M and when I installed the 686 it made my system slow.

How do I remove it ... in Synaptic?

```
sudo apt-get install linux-386
sudo apt-get remove linux-686
```

---

### Post by orev on 2006-08-02
My 2C:

686 also seems to break Celeron M...at least in my experience.

I installed it for 3 days on a Acer TravelMate 2420 with 1.6Ghz Celeron M and suffered from several system crashes, a few broken packages (Gnome Panel Applets had issues), slow/questionable system response, and eventually (for whatever reason) broken WIFI.

I have used the 686 Breezy with P4 desktops, and had no issues, and the K7 with AMD desktops, again with no issues  --but I certainly feel that if you are looking for system stability with an intel chip, stick with the 386...it certainly is the most tested (widely used for production and development).

---

### Post by orev on 2006-08-02
double post....   :)

please remove

---

### Post by prizrak on 2006-08-02
> **orev said:**
> My 2C:

686 also seems to break Celeron M...at least in my experience.

I installed it for 3 days on a Acer TravelMate 2420 with 1.6Ghz Celeron M and suffered from several system crashes, a few broken packages (Gnome Panel Applets had issues), slow/questionable system response, and eventually (for whatever reason) broken WIFI.

I have used the 686 Breezy with P4 desktops, and had no issues, and the K7 with AMD desktops, again with no issues  --but I certainly feel that if you are looking for system stability with an intel chip, stick with the 386...it certainly is the most tested (widely used for production and development).

Seems to be an M specific issue. Probably because M is pretty different from the rest of the Intel line and 386 is generic enough to just run on w/e :)

---

### Post by Christmas on 2006-08-02
I installed the linux-image-2.6.15-26-686 but I didn't noticed improvements. I mean I didn't do accurate tests about speed but it looks like it runs at the same speed as 386. I have 512 RAM and P4 2800 MHz. However if you decide installing the 686 image you also have to reinstall the video driver or reconfigure the xorg.conf file, at least this is what I had to do, and also install a package which i can't remember its name, something like nvidia kernel image for 686 or restricted modules for 686 (of course only if you use nvidia, for Ati I don't know).

---

### Post by givré on 2006-08-02
> **Christmas said:**
> I installed the linux-image-2.6.15-26-686 but I didn't noticed improvements. I mean I didn't do accurate tests about speed but it looks like it runs at the same speed as 386. I have 512 RAM and P4 2800 MHz. However if you decide installing the 686 image you also have to reinstall the video driver or reconfigure the xorg.conf file, at least this is what I had to do, and also install a package which i can't remember its name, something like nvidia kernel image for 686 or restricted modules for 686 (of course only if you use nvidia, for Ati I don't know).
if you install linux-686, you will not have to think about this.
And i recommand to eveybody to install the appropriate metapackage when you change your kernel.

---

### Post by prizrak on 2006-08-02
> **givré said:**
> if you install linux-686, you will not have to think about this.
And i recommand to eveybody to install the appropriate metapackage when you change your kernel.

Seconded, I had no problem with that.

---

### Post by mrancier on 2006-08-08
Hello Everyone,

I have a Laptop witn a Pentium M 2.13 GHz and 2 GB or RAM.  I Installed the 686 Kernel and experienced a 40% increase in overall performance.

Right now I am experimenting with apt-build world.  It will take forever, but I want to see if I can optimize every single package I have to 686.  To be honest with you, I don't know if this is going to work, but I would like to see a 686 optimized ubuntu.

---

### Post by brentoboy on 2006-08-08
> **mrancier said:**
> Hello Everyone,

I have a Laptop witn a Pentium M 2.13 GHz and 2 GB or RAM.  I Installed the 686 Kernel and experienced a 40% increase in overall performance.

Right now I am experimenting with apt-build world.  It will take forever, but I want to see if I can optimize every single package I have to 686.  To be honest with you, I don't know if this is going to work, but I would like to see a 686 optimized ubuntu.



mrancier,

keep track of what it takes to apt-build world, and which package s you build (your world list).

tell us over in the gen-bun-too thread, and we will use your experience while building the auto apt-build world

---

### Post by mrancier on 2006-08-09
These is my apt-build.list.  Coundn't upload it due to forum attachment rules (file was 21.5 KB).  I am optimizing the packages for p4.  I am updating the packages as they are finished by apt-build.  Everything seems to be going fine. 
Apt-build downloads all the necessary dependencies before starting to compile.  It is pretty neat.  I might put the cached .deb files up on my server for other to test if anyone is interested, however I won't be done for a while.
I know the kernel package and gcc are no nos, but I want to see what will happen.

> abiword
abiword-common
abiword-plugins
acpi
acpi-support
acpid
acroread
adduser
alacarte
alien
alsa-base
alsa-oss
alsa-utils
amsn
amule
amule-common
anacron
anjuta
anjuta-common
apmd
app-install-data
app-install-data-commercial
appres
apt
apt-build
apt-cacher
apt-listbugs
apt-listchanges
apt-move
apt-rpm-repository
apt-src
apt-utils
apt-zip
aptitude
arch-buildpackage
aspell
aspell-en
at
at-spi
audacity
autoconf
autoconf-doc
autoconf2.13
autofs
automatix
autopkgtest
autotools-dev
avahi-daemon
avidemux
banshee
banshee-daap
base-files
base-passwd
bash
bc
beagle
beagle-backend-evolution
beep-media-player
beep-media-player-dev
beep-media-player-wma
beforelight
belocs-locales-bin
bicyclerepair
bind9-host
binfmt-support
binutils
binutils-dev
binutils-static
bitmap
bittornado
bittornado-gui
bittorrent
blt
bluefish
bluez-cups
bluez-pcmcia-support
bluez-pin
bluez-utils
bmp-docklet
bmp-mp4
bonobo
brltty
brltty-x11
bsdmainutils
bsdutils
bsh
bug-buddy
build-essential
buildtool
buildtool-doc
bum
busybox-initramfs
bzip2
ca-certificates
cabextract
capplets-data
cdbs
cdda2wav
cdebconf
cdebootstrap
cdparanoia
cdrdao
cdrecord
checkgmail
cli-common
configure-debian
console-common
console-data
console-tools
contact-lookup-applet
coreutils
cpio
cpp
cpp-4.0
cramfsprogs
cron
cupsys
cupsys-bsd
cupsys-client
cupsys-driver-gutenprint
curl
dash
dbconfig-common
dbs
dbus
dbus-1-utils
dc
debarchiver
debconf
debconf-i18n
debconf-utils
debhelper
debian-archive-keyring
debian-builder
debian-el
debian-goodies
debian-helper-scripts
debian-installer
debian-policy
debian-reference
debian-reference-common
debian-reference-en
debianutils
debmake
debmirror
debnest
debootstrap
defoma
deskbar-applet
desktop-file-utils
devscripts
dfontmgr
dfsbuild
dh-kpatches
dh-make
dh-make-perl
dhcdbd
dhcp3-client
dhcp3-common
dictionaries-common
diff
discover1
discover1-data
diveintopython
dmidecode
dmsetup
dnsutils
doc-base
doc-debian
docbook-xml
docker
dosfstools
dpatch
dpkg
dpkg-dev
dpkg-repack
dselect
dvd+rw-tools
dvdrip
dvgrab
e2fslibs
e2fsprogs
easytag
ed
editres
eject
ekiga
emacs21
emacs21-bin-common
emacs21-common
emacsen-common
eog
esound
esound-common
ethtool
evince
evms
evms-ncurses
evolution
evolution-data-server
evolution-exchange
evolution-plugins
evolution-webcal
example-content
f-spot
faac
faad
fakeroot
fastjar
fdutils
festival
festlex-cmu
festlex-poslex
festvox-kallpc16k
ffmpeg
fglrx-kernel-source
file
file-roller
findutils
finger
firefox
firefox-gnome-support
flashplugin-nonfree
fontconfig
foo2zjs
foomatic-db
foomatic-db-engine
foomatic-db-gutenprint
foomatic-db-hpijs
foomatic-filters
foomatic-filters-ppds
fortune-mod
fortunes-min
fping
freeglut3
frostwire
fstobdf
ftp
g++
g++-4.0
gaim
gaim-data
gamin
gawk
gcalctool
gcc
gcc-3.3-base
gcc-4.0
gcc-4.0-base
gcj-4.1-base
gconf
gconf-editor
gconf2
gconf2-common
gcontrol
gdb
gdeb
gdebi
gdesklets
gdesklets-data
gdk-imlib11
gdm
gedit
gedit-common
gettext
gettext-base
gftp
gftp-common
gftp-gtk
gftp-text
gij-4.1
gimp
gimp-data
gimp-print
gimp-python
gksu
gnome-about
gnome-accessibility-themes
gnome-app-install
gnome-applets
gnome-applets-data
gnome-bin
gnome-btdownload
gnome-control-center
gnome-cups-manager
gnome-desktop-data
gnome-doc-utils
gnome-games
gnome-games-data
gnome-icon-theme
gnome-keyring
gnome-libs-data
gnome-mag
gnome-main-menu
gnome-media
gnome-menus
gnome-mime-data
gnome-netstatus-applet
gnome-nettool
gnome-panel
gnome-panel-data
gnome-pilot
gnome-pilot-conduits
gnome-power-manager
gnome-screensaver
gnome-session
gnome-spell
gnome-system-monitor
gnome-system-tools
gnome-terminal
gnome-terminal-data
gnome-themes
gnome-utils
gnome-volume-manager
gnome2-user-guide
gnomebaker
gnopernicus
gnucash
gnucash-common
gnucash-docs
gnupg
gok
grep
grep-dctrl
grepmap
groff-base
grub
gs-common
gs-esp
gsfonts
gsfonts-other
gsfonts-x11
gstreamer0.10-alsa
gstreamer0.10-esd
gstreamer0.10-ffmpeg
gstreamer0.10-fluendo-mp3
gstreamer0.10-fluendo-mpegdemux
gstreamer0.10-gl
gstreamer0.10-gnomevfs
gstreamer0.10-pitfdll
gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad
gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad-multiverse
gstreamer0.10-plugins-base
gstreamer0.10-plugins-base-apps
gstreamer0.10-plugins-good
gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly
gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse
gstreamer0.10-tools
gstreamer0.10-x
gstreamer0.8-a52dec
gstreamer0.8-mpeg2dec
gthumb
gtk2-engines-clearlooks
gtk2-engines-crux
gtk2-engines-highcontrast
gtk2-engines-industrial
gtk2-engines-lighthouseblue
gtk2-engines-mist
gtk2-engines-pixbuf
gtk2-engines-redmond95
gtk2-engines-smooth
gtk2-engines-thinice
gtk2-engines-ubuntulooks
gtkhtml3.8
gucharmap
guile-1.6
guile-1.6-libs
guile-1.6-slib
gvlc
gzip
hal
hal-device-manager
hdparm
hfsplus
hfsutils
hicolor-icon-theme
hostname
hotkey-setup
hpijs
hplip
hplip-data
hplip-ppds
html2text
hwdata
hwdb-client
iceauth
ico
ifupdown
ijsgutenprint
imagemagick
imake
imlib-base
imlib11
info
initramfs-tools
initscripts
inputattach
intltool-debian
iproute
iptables
iputils-arping
iputils-ping
iputils-tracepath
irssi
iso-codes
java-common
java-gcj-compat
jfsutils
kino
kinoplus
klibc-utils
klogd
lame
landscape-client
language-pack-en
language-pack-en-base
language-pack-gnome-en
language-pack-gnome-en-base
language-selector
language-selector-common
language-support-en
laptop-detect
laptop-mode-tools
launchpad-integration
less
lftp
liba52-0.7.4
libaa1
libacl1
libadns1
libaiksaurus-1.2-0c2a
libaiksaurus-1.2-data
libaiksaurusgtk-1.2-0c2a
libao2
libapm1
libappconfig-perl
libapt-pkg-perl
libapt-rpm-pkg-libc6.3-6-0
libart-2.0-2
libart2
libartsc0
libasound2
libaspell15
libatk1.0-0
libatk1.0-dev
libatm1
libatspi1.0-0
libattr1
libaudio-dev
libaudio2
libaudiofile0
libavahi-cil
libavahi-client3
libavahi-common-data
libavahi-common3
libavahi-core4
libavahi-glib1
libavc1394-0
libavifile-0.7c2
libbeagle0
libbeecrypt6
libbind9-0
libblkid1
libbluetooth1
libbonobo2
libbonobo2-0
libbonobo2-common
libbonoboui2-0
libbonoboui2-common
libbrlapi1
libbsf-java
libbtctl2
libbz2-1.0
libc6
libc6-dev
libc6-i686
libc6-pic
libcairo2
libcairo2-dev
libcamel1.2-8
libcap1
libcdio6
libcdparanoia0
libclass-accessor-chained-perl
libclass-accessor-perl
libcomerr2
libcommons-cli-java
libcompfaceg1
libcompress-zlib-perl
libconfig-general-perl
libconsole
libcroco3
libcrypt-blowfish-perl
libcrypt-simple-perl
libcrypt-ssleay-perl
libcrypto++5.2c2a
libcupsimage2
libcupsys2
libcurl3
libcurl3-gnutls
libcurses-perl
libcurses-ui-perl
libdaemon0
libdate-manip-perl
libdb3
libdb4.3
libdbus-1-2
libdbus-1-cil
libdbus-glib-1-2
libdc1394-13
libdebconfclient0
libdebconfclient0-dev
libdebian-installer-extra4
libdebian-installer4
libdevmapper1.02
libdirectfb-0.9-22
libdiscover1
libdivx0-binary
libdivxdecore0-binary
libdivxencore0-binary
libdjvulibre15
libdmx-dev
libdmx1
libdns21
libdpkg-ruby1.8
libdrm-dev
libdrm2
libdv4
libdvbpsi4
libdvdcss2
libdvdnav4
libdvdplay0
libdvdread3
libebook1.2-5
libecal1.2-3
libedata-book1.2-2
libedata-cal1.2-1
libedataserver1.2-7
libedataserverui1.2-6
libedit2
libeel2-2
libeel2-data
libefs1
libegroupwise1.2-9
libelfg0
libemail-mime-encodings-perl
libenchant1c2a
libesd-alsa0
libestools1.2
libevent-perl
libevms-2.5
libevolution-cil
libexchange-storage1.2-1
libexif12
libexpat1
libexpat1-dev
libfaac0
libfaad2-0
libfame-0.9
libffi4
libfile-chdir-perl
libfinance-quote-perl
libflac++5c2
libflac7
libfontconfig1
libfontconfig1-dev
libfontenc-dev
libfontenc1
libfreetype6
libfreetype6-dev
libfreezethaw-perl
libfribidi0
libfs-dev
libfs6
libft-perl
libgail-common
libgail-gnome-module
libgail17
libgal23
libgamin0
libgc1c2
libgcc1
libgcj-common
libgcj7
libgcj7-awt
libgcj7-jar
libgconf11
libgconf2-4
libgconf2.0-cil
libgcrypt11
libgd2-noxpm
libgda2-3
libgda2-common
libgdbm3
libgdk-pixbuf-gnome2
libgdk-pixbuf2
libgdl-1-0
libgdl-1-common
libgdome2-0
libgdome2-cpp-smart0c2a
libgeoip1
libggi2
libghttp1
libgii0
libgii0-target-x
libgimp2.0
libgksu1.2-1
libgksuui1.0-1
libgl1-mesa
libgl1-mesa-dev
libgl1-mesa-dri
libglade-gnome0
libglade-perl
libglade0
libglade2-0
libglade2.0-cil
libglew1
libglib-perl
libglib1.2
libglib2.0-0
libglib2.0-cil
libglib2.0-data
libglib2.0-dev
libglitz1
libglitz1-dev
libglu1-mesa
libglu1-mesa-dev
libgmime2.1
libgmime2.1-cil
libgmp3c2
libgnome-desktop-2
libgnome-keyring0
libgnome-mag2
libgnome-menu2
libgnome-pilot2
libgnome-speech3
libgnome2-0
libgnome2-canvas-perl
libgnome2-common
libgnome2-perl
libgnome2-vfs-perl
libgnome2.0-cil
libgnome32
libgnomebt0
libgnomecanvas2-0
libgnomecanvas2-common
libgnomecups1.0-1
libgnomecupsui1.0-1c2a
libgnomeprint-bin
libgnomeprint-data
libgnomeprint15
libgnomeprint2.2-0
libgnomeprint2.2-data
libgnomeprintui2.2-0
libgnomeprintui2.2-common
libgnomesupport0
libgnomeui-0
libgnomeui-common
libgnomeui32
libgnomevfs2-0
libgnomevfs2-bin
libgnomevfs2-common
libgnomevfs2-extra
libgnorba27
libgnorbagtk0
libgnucrypto-java
libgnutls12
libgoffice-1-2
libgoffice-1-common
libgpg-error0
libgphoto2-2
libgphoto2-port0
libgpmg1
libgpod0
libgsf-1-113
libgsf-1-common
libgsf-gnome-1-113
libgsm1
libgstreamer-plugins-base0.10-0
libgstreamer0.10-0
libgstreamer0.8-0
libgtk+2.0-directfb0
libgtk-perl
libgtk-pixbuf-perl
libgtk1.2
libgtk1.2-common
libgtk2-gladexml-perl
libgtk2-perl
libgtk2-trayicon-perl
libgtk2.0-0
libgtk2.0-bin
libgtk2.0-cil
libgtk2.0-common
libgtk2.0-dev
libgtkhtml1.1-3
libgtkhtml2-0
libgtkhtml3.8-15
libgtkmathview0c2a
libgtksourceview-common
libgtksourceview1.0-0
libgtkspell0
libgtop2-7
libgucharmap4
libguile-ltdl-1
libguppi16
libgutenprint2
libgutenprintui2-1
libgwrapguile1
libhal-storage1
libhal1
libhfsp0
libhsqldb-java
libhtml-parser-perl
libhtml-tableextract-perl
libhtml-tagset-perl
libhtml-tree-perl
libice-dev
libice6
libicu34
libid3-3.8.3c2a
libid3tag0
libidl0
libidn11
libieee1284-3
libijs-0.35
libimlib2
libintl-gettext-ruby1.8
libintl-perl
libipc-signal-perl
libipoddevice0
libisc11
libisccc0
libisccfg1
libiso9660-4
libiw28
libjasper-1.701-1
libjaxp1.2-java
libjessie-java
libjline-java
libjpeg62
libjpeg62-dev
libklibc
libkpathsea4
libkrb53
liblame0
liblaunchpad-integration0
liblcms1
liblcms1-dev
libldap2
liblircclient0
liblocale-gettext-perl
liblockfile-simple-perl
liblog-agent-perl
liblog4j1.2-java
liblpint-bonobo0
libltdl3
liblwres9
liblzo1
libmad0
libmagic1
libmagick9
libmd5-perl
libmdbtools
libmeanwhile1
libmetacity0
libmjpegtools0c2a
libmms0
libmng-dev
libmng1
libmodplug0c2
libmodule-depends-perl
libmono0
libmp4v2-0
libmpcdec3
libmpeg2-4
libmusicbrainz4c2a
libmysqlclient15off
libnautilus-burn3
libnautilus-extension1
libncurses5
libncursesw5
libneon25
libnetcdf3
libnetpbm9
libnewt0.51
libnl1-pre6
libnm-util0
libnotify1
libnspr4
libnss3
liboaf0
libofx2c2a
libogg0
liboggflac3
liboil0.3
libopal-2.2.0
libopencdk8
libopenobex-1.0-0
liborbit0
liborbit2
libosp5
libots0
libpam-foreground
libpam-modules
libpam-runtime
libpam0g
libpanel-applet2-0
libpango1.0-0
libpango1.0-common
libpango1.0-dev
libpaper1
libparted1.6-13
libpcap0.8
libpcre3
libperl5.8
libpisock8
libpisync0
libpng12-0
libpng12-dev
libpoppler1
libpoppler1-glib
libpopt0
libportaudio0
libpostproc0
libpq4
libproc-waitstat-perl
libpt-1.10.0
libpt-plugins-alsa
libpt-plugins-v4l
libpt-plugins-v4l2
libpvm3
libqt3-headers
libqt3-mt
libqt3-mt-dev
libqthreads-12
libquicktime0
libraptor1
librasqal0
libraw1394-5
librdf0
libreadline5
librecode0
librpm4
librsvg2-2
librsvg2-common
libruby1.8
libsamplerate0
libsane
libsasl2
libsasl2-modules
libscim8c2a
libscrollkeeper0
libsdl1.2debian
libsdl1.2debian-alsa
libseda-java
libselinux1
libsepol1
libservlet2.3-java
libsexy2
libshout3
libsidplay1
libsigc++-2.0-0c2a
libslang2
libslp1
libsm-dev
libsm6
libsmbclient
libsmjs1
libsndfile1
libsnmp-base
libsnmp9
libsoup2.2-8
libspeex1
libsqlite0
libsqlite3-0
libss2
libssl0.9.7
libssl0.9.8
libstartup-notification0
libstdc++5
libstdc++6
libstdc++6-4.0-dev
libstlport4.6c2
libswfdec0.3
libswt3.1-gtk-java
libswt3.1-gtk-jni
libsysfs2
libt1-5
libtag1c2a
libtagc0
libtar
libtasn1-2
libterm-readkey-perl
libtext-charwidth-perl
libtext-iconv-perl
libtext-wrapi18n-perl
libtextwrap1
libtheora0
libtiff4
libtotem-plparser1
libttf2
libungif4g
libunicode-string-perl
libuniconf4.2
liburi-perl
libusb-0.1-4
libuuid1
libvcdinfo0
libvorbis0a
libvorbisenc2
libvorbisfile3
libvte-common
libvte4
libwavpack0
libwmf0.2-7
libwnck-common
libwnck18
libwpd-stream8c2a
libwpd8c2a
libwrap0
libwvstreams4.2-base
libwvstreams4.2-extras
libwww-perl
libwxgtk2.4-1
libwxgtk2.6-0
libx11-6
libx11-dev
libxalan2-java
libxau-dev
libxau6
libxaw-headers
libxaw6
libxaw6-dev
libxaw7
libxaw7-dev
libxcomposite-dev
libxcomposite1
libxcursor-dev
libxcursor1
libxdamage-dev
libxdamage1
libxdmcp-dev
libxdmcp6
libxerces2-java
libxevie-dev
libxevie1
libxext-dev
libxext6
libxfixes-dev
libxfixes3
libxfont-dev
libxfont1
libxfontcache-dev
libxfontcache1
libxft-dev
libxft2
libxi-dev
libxi6
libxine-extracodecs
libxine-main1
libxinerama-dev
libxinerama1
libxkbfile-dev
libxkbfile1
libxkbui-dev
libxkbui1
libxklavier10
libxml-libxml-common-perl
libxml-libxml-perl
libxml-namespacesupport-perl
libxml-parser-perl
libxml-parser-ruby1.8
libxml-sax-perl
libxml-simple-perl
libxml1
libxml2
libxml2-utils
libxmlsec1
libxmlsec1-nss
libxmlsec1-openssl
libxmu-dev
libxmu-headers
libxmu6
libxmuu-dev
libxmuu1
libxosd2
libxp-dev
libxp6
libxplc0.3.13
libxpm-dev
libxpm4
libxrandr-dev
libxrandr2
libxrender-dev
libxrender1
libxres-dev
libxres1
libxsharp-dev
libxsharp0
libxslt1.1
libxss-dev
libxss1
libxt-dev
libxt-java
libxt6
libxtrap-dev
libxtrap6
libxtst-dev
libxtst6
libxv-dev
libxv1
libxvidcore4
libxvmc-dev
libxvmc1
libxxf86dga-dev
libxxf86dga1
libxxf86misc-dev
libxxf86misc1
libxxf86vm-dev
libxxf86vm1
libyaml-perl
libzvt2
liferea
liferea-mozilla
linux-386
linux-686
linux-686-smp
linux-headers-2.6.15-26
linux-headers-2.6.15-26-686
linux-headers-686
linux-image-2.6.15-23-386
linux-image-2.6.15-26-386
linux-image-2.6.15-26-686
linux-image-386
linux-image-686
linux-kernel-headers
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15-23-386
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15-26-386
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15-26-686
linux-restricted-modules-386
linux-restricted-modules-686
linux-restricted-modules-common
linux-sound-base
listen
listres
locales
login
logrotate
lsb-base
lsb-release
lshw
lshw-common
lsof
ltrace
luit
lvm-common
lvm2
m4
make
makedepend
makedev
man-db
manpages
mawk
mcpp
mdadm
mdetect
memtest86+
memtester
mencoder
mencoder-386
menu
menu-xdg
mesa-common-dev
mesa-utils
metacity
mii-diag
mime-support
min12xxw
mjpegtools
mkisofs
module-init-tools
mono-classlib-1.0
mono-common
mono-jit
mono-mcs
mono-utils
mount
mozilla-acroread
mozilla-browser
mozilla-firefox-locale-en-gb
mozilla-mplayer
mozilla-thunderbird
mpeg2dec
mpg321
mplayer
mplayer-386
mplayer-fonts
mplayer-skins
msttcorefonts
mtr-tiny
myspell-en-gb
myspell-en-us
mysql-common
nano
nautilus
nautilus-cd-burner
nautilus-data
nautilus-sendto
ncurses-base
ncurses-bin
net-tools
netbase
netcat
network-manager
network-manager-gnome
notification-daemon
ntpdate
nvidia-kernel-common
nvu
oaf
oclock
odbcinst1debian1
ofx
ogmtools
opalmod
openclipart
openclipart-openoffice.org
openclipart-png
openclipart-svg
openoffice.org
openoffice.org-base
openoffice.org-calc
openoffice.org-common
openoffice.org-core
openoffice.org-draw
openoffice.org-evolution
openoffice.org-gnome
openoffice.org-gtk
openoffice.org-help-en-us
openoffice.org-impress
openoffice.org-java-common
openoffice.org-l10n-common
openoffice.org-l10n-en-gb
openoffice.org-l10n-en-us
openoffice.org-l10n-en-za
openoffice.org-math
openoffice.org-thesaurus-en-us
openoffice.org-writer
openssh-client
openssl
opera
p7zip
parted
passwd
patch
pciutils
pcmcia-cs
pcmciautils
pdmenu
perl
perl-base
perl-modules
picasa
pkg-config
pmount
pnet-interpreter
pnm2ppa
po-debconf
poppler-utils
popularity-contest
powermanagement-interface
powermgmt-base
powernowd
ppp
pppconfig
pppoeconf
procinfo
procps
psfontmgr
psmisc
pwgen
python
python-adns
python-apt
python-cddb
python-clientcookie
python-crypto
python-egenix-mxproxy
python-egenix-mxstack
python-egenix-mxtexttools
python-egenix-mxtools
python-epydoc
python-eunuchs
python-examples
python-gadfly
python-gd
python-gdbm
python-genetic
python-geoip
python-glade2
python-gmenu
python-gnome2
python-gnome2-desktop
python-gnome2-extras
python-gnupginterface
python-gst0.10
python-gtk2
python-htmlgen
python-htmltmpl
python-id3lib
python-imaging
python-imaging-sane
python-jabber
python-kjbuckets
python-launchpad-integration
python-ldap
python-libxml2
python-minimal
python-mysqldb
python-netcdf
python-newt
python-numeric
python-orbit
python-pam
python-parted
python-pexpect
python-pgsql
python-pisock
python-pqueue
python-pyao
python-pylibacl
python-pyogg
python-pyopenssl
python-pyorbit
python-pyvorbis
python-pyxattr
python-reportlab
python-simpletal
python-soappy
python-sqlite
python-stats
python-syck
python-tk
python-unit
python-uno
python-vte
python-wxgtk2.6
python-wxversion
python-xdg
python-xml
python-xmpp
python2.4
python2.4-adns
python2.4-apt
python2.4-cairo
python2.4-clientcookie
python2.4-crypto
python2.4-ctypes
python2.4-dbus
python2.4-dictclient
python2.4-egenix-mxdatetime
python2.4-egenix-mxproxy
python2.4-egenix-mxstack
python2.4-egenix-mxtexttools
python2.4-egenix-mxtools
python2.4-epydoc
python2.4-eunuchs
python2.4-examples
python2.4-gadfly
python2.4-gd
python2.4-gdbm
python2.4-geoip
python2.4-glade2
python2.4-gnome2
python2.4-gnome2-desktop
python2.4-gnome2-extras
python2.4-gobject
python2.4-gtk2
python2.4-htmlgen
python2.4-htmltmpl
python2.4-id3lib
python2.4-imaging
python2.4-imaging-sane
python2.4-jabber
python2.4-kjbuckets
python2.4-ldap
python2.4-librdf
python2.4-libxml2
python2.4-libxslt1
python2.4-minimal
python2.4-mysqldb
python2.4-numeric
python2.4-pam
python2.4-pexpect
python2.4-pgsql
python2.4-pycurl
python2.4-pylibacl
python2.4-pymad
python2.4-pyopenssl
python2.4-pyorbit
python2.4-pysqlite2
python2.4-pyxattr
python2.4-reportlab
python2.4-simpletal
python2.4-soappy
python2.4-sqlite
python2.4-syck
python2.4-tk
python2.4-unit
python2.4-xml
python2.4-xmpp
qt3-dev-tools
radeontool
rar
rdesktop
readahead
readline-common
realplay
reiser4progs
reiserfsprogs
reportbug
rhythmbox
rpm
rss-glx
rsync
ruby
ruby1.8
samba-common
sbackup
scim
scim-gtk2-immodule
scim-modules-socket
screem
screen
screensaver-default-images
scrollkeeper
sed
serpentine
sessreg
sgml-base
sgml-data
shared-mime-info
skype
slib
slocate
smartdimmer
smbclient
smproxy
sound-juicer
sox
ssh-askpass-gnome
strace
streamripper
streamtuner
subtitleripper
sudo
sun-java5-bin
sun-java5-jre
sun-java5-plugin
synaptic
sysklogd
system-tools-backends
sysutils
sysv-rc
sysv-rc-conf
sysvinit
t1-xfree86-nonfree
tangerine-icon-theme
tango-icon-theme
tango-icon-theme-common
tar
tcl8.4
tcltls
tcpd
tcpdump
telnet
thunderbird-locale-en-gb
time
tk8.4
tla
tofrodos
toolame
toshset
totem
totem-xine
transcode
tsclient
ttf-arabeyes
ttf-arphic-ukai
ttf-arphic-uming
ttf-baekmuk
ttf-bengali-fonts
ttf-bitstream-vera
ttf-dejavu
ttf-devanagari-fonts
ttf-dustin
ttf-f500
ttf-freefont
ttf-gentium
ttf-gujarati-fonts
ttf-indic-fonts
ttf-isabella
ttf-kannada-fonts
ttf-kochi-gothic
ttf-kochi-mincho
ttf-lao
ttf-larabie-deco
ttf-larabie-straight
ttf-larabie-uncommon
ttf-malayalam-fonts
ttf-mgopen
ttf-opensymbol
ttf-oriya-fonts
ttf-punjabi-fonts
ttf-staypuft
ttf-summersby
ttf-tamil-fonts
ttf-telugu-fonts
ttf-thai-tlwg
ttf-ubuntu-title
ttf-xfree86-nonfree
ubuntu-artwork
ubuntu-base
ubuntu-desktop
ubuntu-docs
ubuntu-keyring
ubuntu-minimal
ubuntu-sounds
ubuntu-standard
ucf
udev
unace
unattended-upgrades
unixodbc
unrar
unzip
update-manager
update-notifier
usbutils
usplash
util-linux
vbetool
vcdimager
viewres
vim
vim-common
vim-runtime
vino
vlc
vlc-plugin-alsa
vlc-plugin-arts
vlc-plugin-esd
vnc-common
vorbis-tools
w32codecs
w3m
wamerican
wbritish
wget
whiptail
whois
wine
wireless-tools
wpasupplicant
wvdial
wxvlc
x-dev
x-ttcidfont-conf
x-window-system-core
x11-common
x11perf
x11proto-bigreqs-dev
x11proto-composite-dev
x11proto-core-dev
x11proto-damage-dev
x11proto-dmx-dev
x11proto-evie-dev
x11proto-fixes-dev
x11proto-fontcache-dev
x11proto-fonts-dev
x11proto-gl-dev
x11proto-input-dev
x11proto-kb-dev
x11proto-randr-dev
x11proto-record-dev
x11proto-render-dev
x11proto-resource-dev
x11proto-scrnsaver-dev
x11proto-trap-dev
x11proto-video-dev
x11proto-xcmisc-dev
x11proto-xext-dev
x11proto-xf86bigfont-dev
x11proto-xf86dga-dev
x11proto-xf86dri-dev
x11proto-xf86misc-dev
x11proto-xf86vidmode-dev
x11proto-xinerama-dev
xauth
xaw3dg
xbase-clients
xbiff
xcalc
xcdroast
xchat
xchat-common
xchat-systray
xclipboard
xclock
xconsole
xcursor-themes
xcursorgen
xditview
xdmx
xdmx-tools
xdpyinfo
xdriinfo
xev
xeyes
xf86dga
xfd
xfonts-100dpi
xfonts-75dpi
xfonts-artwiz
xfonts-base
xfonts-intl-european
xfonts-scalable
xfonts-utils
xfontsel
xfs
xfsinfo
xfsprogs
xgamma
xgc
xhost
xinit
xkbutils
xkeyboard-config
xkill
xli
xlibs-dev
xload
xlogo
xlsatoms
xlsclients
xlsfonts
xmag
xman
xmessage
xml-core
xmms
xmodmap
xmore
xorg-build-macros
xorg-dev
xorg-driver-fglrx
xorg-driver-fglrx-dev
xpmutils
xpr
xprop
xrandr
xrdb
xrefresh
xresprobe
xrgb
xsane
xsane-common
xscreensaver-data
xscreensaver-gl
xserver-xorg
xserver-xorg-core
xserver-xorg-dev
xserver-xorg-driver-all
xserver-xorg-driver-apm
xserver-xorg-driver-ark
xserver-xorg-driver-ati
xserver-xorg-driver-chips
xserver-xorg-driver-cirrus
xserver-xorg-driver-cyrix
xserver-xorg-driver-dummy
xserver-xorg-driver-fbdev
xserver-xorg-driver-glint
xserver-xorg-driver-i128
xserver-xorg-driver-i740
xserver-xorg-driver-i810
xserver-xorg-driver-imstt
xserver-xorg-driver-mga
xserver-xorg-driver-neomagic
xserver-xorg-driver-newport
xserver-xorg-driver-nsc
xserver-xorg-driver-nv
xserver-xorg-driver-rendition
xserver-xorg-driver-s3
xserver-xorg-driver-s3virge
xserver-xorg-driver-savage
xserver-xorg-driver-siliconmotion
xserver-xorg-driver-sis
xserver-xorg-driver-sisusb
xserver-xorg-driver-tdfx
xserver-xorg-driver-tga
xserver-xorg-driver-trident
xserver-xorg-driver-tseng
xserver-xorg-driver-v4l
xserver-xorg-driver-vesa
xserver-xorg-driver-vga
xserver-xorg-driver-via
xserver-xorg-driver-vmware
xserver-xorg-driver-voodoo
xserver-xorg-input-all
xserver-xorg-input-elographics
xserver-xorg-input-evdev
xserver-xorg-input-kbd
xserver-xorg-input-mouse
xserver-xorg-input-synaptics
xserver-xorg-input-wacom
xset
xsetmode
xsetpointer
xsetroot
xsltproc
xsm
xstdcmap
xterm
xtrans-dev
xtrap
xutils
xvid4conf
xvidtune
xvinfo
xvncviewer
xwd
xwininfo
xwud
yelp
zenity
zip
zlib1g
zlib1g-dev


---

### Post by givré on 2006-08-09
do you know pastbin?
[http://paste.uni.cc/8140](http://paste.uni.cc/8140)

---

### Post by brentoboy on 2006-08-11
never heard of it.  what are you recommending it for?

it looks like a C-ish scripting language.
is there something special you wanted to say about it?

---

### Post by argie on 2006-08-12
Pastbin is like a place to put copy-pastes so that people who read the thread don't have to scroll down lots.

Frankly, my computer seems to run slower with the 686 kernel.

---

### Post by frogotronic on 2006-12-06
Hello,

I am experiencing a wierd aptitude related problem on Dapper running the i686 kernel (2.6.15-27-686).  I upgraded from i386 to i686 using Synaptic.

sudo apt-get -f install is totally okay.

sudo aptitude -f install wants the machine to uninstall just about everything and reinstall the 386 linux kernel.

I was having problems installing kinoplus, so I saw that trying sudo aptitude -f install was a way to resolve this ONE issue.  To my shock; I got this output:

```
$ sudo apt-get -f install
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.

$ sudo aptitude -f install
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
Reading extended state information
Initializing package states... Done
Building tag database... Done
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  libgd2-noxpm linux-386 linux-image-2.6.15-23-386
  linux-image-2.6.15-27-386 linux-image-386
  linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15-27-386 linux-restricted-modules-386
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  acroread-plugins aircrack antlr autotools-dev avida-base
  avm-fritz-firmware-2.6.15-27 beagle beagle-backend-evolution beagle-dev
  biococoa.app biomode bioperl blast2 boxshade build-essential capiutils
  cdd-common classpath classpath-common classpath-tools clustalw
  clustalw-mpi clustalx cpp-3.4 desktop-base dialog ecj-bootstrap emacs21
  emacs21-bin-common emacs21-common emacsen-common fastdnaml fastlink
  fastlink-doc fftw3 g++ g++-3.4 g++-4.0 garlic garlic-doc gcc-3.4 gcj
  gcj-4.1 gdm-themes gij gimp-gap gimp-helpbrowser gjdoc
  gnome-themes-extras gnustep-back-common gnustep-back0.10
  gnustep-base-common gnustep-gpbs gnustep-gui-common gnustep-make
  gnustep-ppd gtk-clearlooks-gperfection2-theme gtk2-engines-spherecrystal
  j2re1.4 j2sdk1.4 j2sdk1.4-src java-gcj-compat-dev joystick jscalibrator
  kbruch kdelibs-bin kdelibs-data kdelibs4c2a khangman kverbos labplot
  lam-runtime lam4c2 leksbot lesstif-dev lesstif1 libCGI-perl
  libart-2.0-dev libarts1c2a libatk1.0-dev libaudiofile-dev
  libavahi-client-dev libavahi-common-dev libavahi-glib-dev libavahi-qt3-1
  libbcel-java libbio-ruby libbio-ruby1.8 libbonobo2-dev libbonoboui2-dev
  libcairo-java libcapi20-3 libconvert-binhex-perl libcrypt-ssleay-perl
  libcurses-perl libcurses-ui-perl libdbus-1-dev libesd0-dev
  libevolution-cil libfcgi-perl libffcall1 libfile-basedir-perl libfltk1.1
  libgcj-dev libgcj7-awt libgcj7-dev libgconf2-dev libgconfmm-2.6-1c2
  libgcrypt11-dev libgd-gd2-perl libgd2-xpm libgl1-mesa-dev libglade2-dev
  libglademm-2.4-1c2a libglib-java libglib2.0-dev libglu1-mesa-dev
  libgmime2.1 libgmime2.1-cil libgnome-keyring-dev libgnome-menu-dev
  libgnome-vfsmm-2.6-1c2a libgnome2-dev libgnomecanvas2-dev
  libgnomecanvasmm-2.6-1c2a libgnomemm-2.6-1c2a libgnomeui-0-dbg
  libgnomeui-dev libgnomeuimm-2.6-1c2a libgnomevfs2-dev libgnustep-base1.11
  libgnustep-gui0.10 libgnutls-dev libgpg-error-dev libgtk-java libgtk-jni
  libgtk2.0-dev libidl-dev libio-string-perl libio-stringy-perl
  libjaxen-java libjdom0-java libjsw-dev libjsw2 libkdeedu3
  libmailtools-perl libmime-lite-perl libmime-perl libncbi6 libncbi6-dbg
  libncbi6-dev libnunit-cil libobjc1 libopencdk8-dev libopenexr2c2a
  liborbit2-dev liboro-java libossp-uuid-perl libossp-uuid13
  libpango1.0-dev libpopt-dev libregexp-java libsaxpath-java
  libsdl-image1.2 libsdl-mixer1.2 libsdl-ttf2.0-0 libservlet2.4-java
  libsmpeg0 libsoap-lite-perl libstdc++2.10-glibc2.2 libstdc++6-4.0-dev
  libstdc++6-dev libsvn-javahl libsvn0 libt1-5 libtasn1-2-dev
  libtimedate-perl libtool libvibrant6 libvibrant6-dbg libvibrant6-dev
  libxcursor-dev libxfixes-dev libxft-dev libxinerama-dev libxml-twig-perl
  libxp-dev libxrandr-dev liby2-14 linux-686 linux-doc-2.6.15
  linux-image-2.6.15-27-686 linux-image-686
  linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15-27-686 linux-restricted-modules-686
  linux-source-2.6.15 loki loki-doc mcl med-bio med-bio-dev med-common menu
  menu-xdg mesa-common-dev mipe molphy muscle muscle-doc ncbi-data
  ncbi-epcr ncbi-epcr-data ncbi-tools-bin ncbi-tools-x11 ncbi-tools6 njplot
  odbcinst1debian1 openssh-server pdmenu perl-tk perlprimer perlprimer-doc
  phylip phylip-doc python-beagle python-biopython python-biopython-martel
  python-pygame python2.4-biopython python2.4-biopython-martel
  python2.4-numeric-ext python2.4-pygame readseq searchandrescue
  searchandrescue-common searchandrescue-data seaview ssh sun-java5-bin
  sun-java5-demo sun-java5-fonts sun-java5-jdk sun-java5-jre
  sun-java5-plugin sun-java5-source sysv-rc-conf sysvconfig t-coffee
  tetex-base tetex-bin tex-common textopo tigr-glimmer timezoneconf
  tree-puzzle tuxpaint tuxpaint-data tuxpaint-stamps-default unixodbc
  vibrant6 x-dev x11proto-fixes-dev x11proto-randr-dev
  x11proto-xinerama-dev xaw3dg xserver-xorg-input-joystick
0 packages upgraded, 7 newly installed, 266 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 51.7MB of archives. After unpacking 911MB will be freed.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?] n
Abort.

```


so I tried to sudo aptitude install linux-686
and got the following:

```
sudo aptitude install linux-686
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
Reading extended state information
Initializing package states... Done
Building tag database... Done
No packages will be installed, upgraded, or removed.
0 packages upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 0B of archives. After unpacking 0B will be used.
Writing extended state information... Done
andor@oskar3:~$ sudo aptitude -f install
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
Reading extended state information
Initializing package states... Done
Building tag database... Done
The following packages are BROKEN:
  linux-686
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  libgd2-noxpm linux-386 linux-image-2.6.15-23-386
  linux-image-2.6.15-27-386 linux-image-386
  linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15-27-386 linux-restricted-modules-386
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  acroread-plugins aircrack antlr autotools-dev avida-base
  avm-fritz-firmware-2.6.15-27 beagle beagle-backend-evolution beagle-dev
  biococoa.app biomode bioperl blast2 boxshade build-essential capiutils
  cdd-common classpath classpath-common classpath-tools clustalw
  clustalw-mpi clustalx cpp-3.4 desktop-base dialog ecj-bootstrap emacs21
  emacs21-bin-common emacs21-common emacsen-common fastdnaml fastlink
  fastlink-doc fftw3 g++ g++-3.4 g++-4.0 garlic garlic-doc gcc-3.4 gcj
  gcj-4.1 gdm-themes gij gimp-gap gimp-helpbrowser gjdoc
  gnome-themes-extras gnustep-back-common gnustep-back0.10
  gnustep-base-common gnustep-gpbs gnustep-gui-common gnustep-make
  gnustep-ppd gtk-clearlooks-gperfection2-theme gtk2-engines-spherecrystal
  j2re1.4 j2sdk1.4 j2sdk1.4-src java-gcj-compat-dev joystick jscalibrator
  kbruch kdelibs-bin kdelibs-data kdelibs4c2a khangman kverbos labplot
  lam-runtime lam4c2 leksbot lesstif-dev lesstif1 libCGI-perl
  libart-2.0-dev libarts1c2a libatk1.0-dev libaudiofile-dev
  libavahi-client-dev libavahi-common-dev libavahi-glib-dev libavahi-qt3-1
  libbcel-java libbio-ruby libbio-ruby1.8 libbonobo2-dev libbonoboui2-dev
  libcairo-java libcapi20-3 libconvert-binhex-perl libcrypt-ssleay-perl
  libcurses-perl libcurses-ui-perl libdbus-1-dev libesd0-dev
  libevolution-cil libfcgi-perl libffcall1 libfile-basedir-perl libfltk1.1
  libgcj-dev libgcj7-awt libgcj7-dev libgconf2-dev libgconfmm-2.6-1c2
  libgcrypt11-dev libgd-gd2-perl libgd2-xpm libgl1-mesa-dev libglade2-dev
  libglademm-2.4-1c2a libglib-java libglib2.0-dev libglu1-mesa-dev
  libgmime2.1 libgmime2.1-cil libgnome-keyring-dev libgnome-menu-dev
  libgnome-vfsmm-2.6-1c2a libgnome2-dev libgnomecanvas2-dev
  libgnomecanvasmm-2.6-1c2a libgnomemm-2.6-1c2a libgnomeui-0-dbg
  libgnomeui-dev libgnomeuimm-2.6-1c2a libgnomevfs2-dev libgnustep-base1.11
  libgnustep-gui0.10 libgnutls-dev libgpg-error-dev libgtk-java libgtk-jni
  libgtk2.0-dev libidl-dev libio-string-perl libio-stringy-perl
  libjaxen-java libjdom0-java libjsw-dev libjsw2 libkdeedu3
  libmailtools-perl libmime-lite-perl libmime-perl libncbi6 libncbi6-dbg
  libncbi6-dev libnunit-cil libobjc1 libopencdk8-dev libopenexr2c2a
  liborbit2-dev liboro-java libossp-uuid-perl libossp-uuid13
  libpango1.0-dev libpopt-dev libregexp-java libsaxpath-java
  libsdl-image1.2 libsdl-mixer1.2 libsdl-ttf2.0-0 libservlet2.4-java
  libsmpeg0 libsoap-lite-perl libstdc++2.10-glibc2.2 libstdc++6-4.0-dev
  libstdc++6-dev libsvn-javahl libsvn0 libt1-5 libtasn1-2-dev
  libtimedate-perl libtool libvibrant6 libvibrant6-dbg libvibrant6-dev
  libxcursor-dev libxfixes-dev libxft-dev libxinerama-dev libxml-twig-perl
  libxp-dev libxrandr-dev liby2-14 linux-doc-2.6.15
  linux-image-2.6.15-27-686 linux-image-686
  linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15-27-686 linux-restricted-modules-686
  linux-source-2.6.15 loki loki-doc mcl med-bio med-bio-dev med-common menu
  menu-xdg mesa-common-dev mipe molphy muscle muscle-doc ncbi-data
  ncbi-epcr ncbi-epcr-data ncbi-tools-bin ncbi-tools-x11 ncbi-tools6 njplot
  odbcinst1debian1 openssh-server pdmenu perl-tk perlprimer perlprimer-doc
  phylip phylip-doc python-beagle python-biopython python-biopython-martel
  python-pygame python2.4-biopython python2.4-biopython-martel
  python2.4-numeric-ext python2.4-pygame readseq searchandrescue
  searchandrescue-common searchandrescue-data seaview ssh sun-java5-bin
  sun-java5-demo sun-java5-fonts sun-java5-jdk sun-java5-jre
  sun-java5-plugin sun-java5-source sysv-rc-conf sysvconfig t-coffee
  tetex-base tetex-bin tex-common textopo tigr-glimmer timezoneconf
  tree-puzzle tuxpaint tuxpaint-data tuxpaint-stamps-default unixodbc
  vibrant6 x-dev x11proto-fixes-dev x11proto-randr-dev
  x11proto-xinerama-dev xaw3dg xserver-xorg-input-joystick
0 packages upgraded, 7 newly installed, 265 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 51.7MB of archives. After unpacking 910MB will be freed.
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
  linux-686: Depends: linux-image-686 but it is not installable
             Depends: linux-restricted-modules-686 but it is not installable
Resolving dependencies...
The following actions will resolve these dependencies:

Keep the following packages at their current version:
acroread-plugins [7.0.1-0.0.ubuntu1 (dapper, now)]
autotools-dev [20050803.1 (dapper, dapper, now)]
desktop-base [0.3.16build1 (dapper, dapper, now)]
libmailtools-perl [1.62-1 (dapper, dapper, now)]
libtimedate-perl [1.1600-5 (dapper, dapper, now)]
libtool [1.5.22-2 (dapper, dapper, now)]
linux-image-2.6.15-27-686 [2.6.15-27.48 (dapper-security, dapper-security, now)]
linux-image-686 [2.6.15.25 (dapper-security, dapper-security, now)]
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15-27-686 [2.6.15.12-1 (dapper-security,
dapper-security, now)]
linux-restricted-modules-686 [2.6.15.25 (dapper-security, dapper-security, now)]
menu [2.1.27 (dapper, dapper, now)]
menu-xdg [0.2.2 (dapper, dapper, now)]
python-beagle [0.2.6-1ubuntu5 (dapper, dapper, now)]

Score is -587

Accept this solution? [Y/n/q/?] q
Abandoning all efforts to resolve these dependencies.
Abort.

```

Did I install the linux-686 incorrectly?

---

### Post by frogotronic on 2006-12-08
> **cement_head said:**
> Hello,

I am experiencing a wierd aptitude related problem on Dapper running the i686 kernel (2.6.15-27-686).  I upgraded from i386 to i686 using Synaptic.

sudo apt-get -f install is totally okay.

sudo aptitude -f install wants the machine to uninstall just about everything and reinstall the 386 linux kernel.

I was having problems installing kinoplus, so I saw that trying sudo aptitude -f install was a way to resolve this ONE issue.  To my shock; I got this output:

```
$ sudo apt-get -f install
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.

$ sudo aptitude -f install
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
Reading extended state information
Initializing package states... Done
Building tag database... Done
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  libgd2-noxpm linux-386 linux-image-2.6.15-23-386
  linux-image-2.6.15-27-386 linux-image-386
  linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15-27-386 linux-restricted-modules-386
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  acroread-plugins aircrack antlr autotools-dev avida-base
  avm-fritz-firmware-2.6.15-27 beagle beagle-backend-evolution beagle-dev
  biococoa.app biomode bioperl blast2 boxshade build-essential capiutils
  cdd-common classpath classpath-common classpath-tools clustalw
  clustalw-mpi clustalx cpp-3.4 desktop-base dialog ecj-bootstrap emacs21
  emacs21-bin-common emacs21-common emacsen-common fastdnaml fastlink
  fastlink-doc fftw3 g++ g++-3.4 g++-4.0 garlic garlic-doc gcc-3.4 gcj
  gcj-4.1 gdm-themes gij gimp-gap gimp-helpbrowser gjdoc
  gnome-themes-extras gnustep-back-common gnustep-back0.10
  gnustep-base-common gnustep-gpbs gnustep-gui-common gnustep-make
  gnustep-ppd gtk-clearlooks-gperfection2-theme gtk2-engines-spherecrystal
  j2re1.4 j2sdk1.4 j2sdk1.4-src java-gcj-compat-dev joystick jscalibrator
  kbruch kdelibs-bin kdelibs-data kdelibs4c2a khangman kverbos labplot
  lam-runtime lam4c2 leksbot lesstif-dev lesstif1 libCGI-perl
  libart-2.0-dev libarts1c2a libatk1.0-dev libaudiofile-dev
  libavahi-client-dev libavahi-common-dev libavahi-glib-dev libavahi-qt3-1
  libbcel-java libbio-ruby libbio-ruby1.8 libbonobo2-dev libbonoboui2-dev
  libcairo-java libcapi20-3 libconvert-binhex-perl libcrypt-ssleay-perl
  libcurses-perl libcurses-ui-perl libdbus-1-dev libesd0-dev
  libevolution-cil libfcgi-perl libffcall1 libfile-basedir-perl libfltk1.1
  libgcj-dev libgcj7-awt libgcj7-dev libgconf2-dev libgconfmm-2.6-1c2
  libgcrypt11-dev libgd-gd2-perl libgd2-xpm libgl1-mesa-dev libglade2-dev
  libglademm-2.4-1c2a libglib-java libglib2.0-dev libglu1-mesa-dev
  libgmime2.1 libgmime2.1-cil libgnome-keyring-dev libgnome-menu-dev
  libgnome-vfsmm-2.6-1c2a libgnome2-dev libgnomecanvas2-dev
  libgnomecanvasmm-2.6-1c2a libgnomemm-2.6-1c2a libgnomeui-0-dbg
  libgnomeui-dev libgnomeuimm-2.6-1c2a libgnomevfs2-dev libgnustep-base1.11
  libgnustep-gui0.10 libgnutls-dev libgpg-error-dev libgtk-java libgtk-jni
  libgtk2.0-dev libidl-dev libio-string-perl libio-stringy-perl
  libjaxen-java libjdom0-java libjsw-dev libjsw2 libkdeedu3
  libmailtools-perl libmime-lite-perl libmime-perl libncbi6 libncbi6-dbg
  libncbi6-dev libnunit-cil libobjc1 libopencdk8-dev libopenexr2c2a
  liborbit2-dev liboro-java libossp-uuid-perl libossp-uuid13
  libpango1.0-dev libpopt-dev libregexp-java libsaxpath-java
  libsdl-image1.2 libsdl-mixer1.2 libsdl-ttf2.0-0 libservlet2.4-java
  libsmpeg0 libsoap-lite-perl libstdc++2.10-glibc2.2 libstdc++6-4.0-dev
  libstdc++6-dev libsvn-javahl libsvn0 libt1-5 libtasn1-2-dev
  libtimedate-perl libtool libvibrant6 libvibrant6-dbg libvibrant6-dev
  libxcursor-dev libxfixes-dev libxft-dev libxinerama-dev libxml-twig-perl
  libxp-dev libxrandr-dev liby2-14 linux-686 linux-doc-2.6.15
  linux-image-2.6.15-27-686 linux-image-686
  linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15-27-686 linux-restricted-modules-686
  linux-source-2.6.15 loki loki-doc mcl med-bio med-bio-dev med-common menu
  menu-xdg mesa-common-dev mipe molphy muscle muscle-doc ncbi-data
  ncbi-epcr ncbi-epcr-data ncbi-tools-bin ncbi-tools-x11 ncbi-tools6 njplot
  odbcinst1debian1 openssh-server pdmenu perl-tk perlprimer perlprimer-doc
  phylip phylip-doc python-beagle python-biopython python-biopython-martel
  python-pygame python2.4-biopython python2.4-biopython-martel
  python2.4-numeric-ext python2.4-pygame readseq searchandrescue
  searchandrescue-common searchandrescue-data seaview ssh sun-java5-bin
  sun-java5-demo sun-java5-fonts sun-java5-jdk sun-java5-jre
  sun-java5-plugin sun-java5-source sysv-rc-conf sysvconfig t-coffee
  tetex-base tetex-bin tex-common textopo tigr-glimmer timezoneconf
  tree-puzzle tuxpaint tuxpaint-data tuxpaint-stamps-default unixodbc
  vibrant6 x-dev x11proto-fixes-dev x11proto-randr-dev
  x11proto-xinerama-dev xaw3dg xserver-xorg-input-joystick
0 packages upgraded, 7 newly installed, 266 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 51.7MB of archives. After unpacking 911MB will be freed.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?] n
Abort.

```


so I tried to sudo aptitude install linux-686
and got the following:

```
sudo aptitude install linux-686
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
Reading extended state information
Initializing package states... Done
Building tag database... Done
No packages will be installed, upgraded, or removed.
0 packages upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 0B of archives. After unpacking 0B will be used.
Writing extended state information... Done
andor@oskar3:~$ sudo aptitude -f install
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
Reading extended state information
Initializing package states... Done
Building tag database... Done
The following packages are BROKEN:
  linux-686
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  libgd2-noxpm linux-386 linux-image-2.6.15-23-386
  linux-image-2.6.15-27-386 linux-image-386
  linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15-27-386 linux-restricted-modules-386
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  acroread-plugins aircrack antlr autotools-dev avida-base
  avm-fritz-firmware-2.6.15-27 beagle beagle-backend-evolution beagle-dev
  biococoa.app biomode bioperl blast2 boxshade build-essential capiutils
  cdd-common classpath classpath-common classpath-tools clustalw
  clustalw-mpi clustalx cpp-3.4 desktop-base dialog ecj-bootstrap emacs21
  emacs21-bin-common emacs21-common emacsen-common fastdnaml fastlink
  fastlink-doc fftw3 g++ g++-3.4 g++-4.0 garlic garlic-doc gcc-3.4 gcj
  gcj-4.1 gdm-themes gij gimp-gap gimp-helpbrowser gjdoc
  gnome-themes-extras gnustep-back-common gnustep-back0.10
  gnustep-base-common gnustep-gpbs gnustep-gui-common gnustep-make
  gnustep-ppd gtk-clearlooks-gperfection2-theme gtk2-engines-spherecrystal
  j2re1.4 j2sdk1.4 j2sdk1.4-src java-gcj-compat-dev joystick jscalibrator
  kbruch kdelibs-bin kdelibs-data kdelibs4c2a khangman kverbos labplot
  lam-runtime lam4c2 leksbot lesstif-dev lesstif1 libCGI-perl
  libart-2.0-dev libarts1c2a libatk1.0-dev libaudiofile-dev
  libavahi-client-dev libavahi-common-dev libavahi-glib-dev libavahi-qt3-1
  libbcel-java libbio-ruby libbio-ruby1.8 libbonobo2-dev libbonoboui2-dev
  libcairo-java libcapi20-3 libconvert-binhex-perl libcrypt-ssleay-perl
  libcurses-perl libcurses-ui-perl libdbus-1-dev libesd0-dev
  libevolution-cil libfcgi-perl libffcall1 libfile-basedir-perl libfltk1.1
  libgcj-dev libgcj7-awt libgcj7-dev libgconf2-dev libgconfmm-2.6-1c2
  libgcrypt11-dev libgd-gd2-perl libgd2-xpm libgl1-mesa-dev libglade2-dev
  libglademm-2.4-1c2a libglib-java libglib2.0-dev libglu1-mesa-dev
  libgmime2.1 libgmime2.1-cil libgnome-keyring-dev libgnome-menu-dev
  libgnome-vfsmm-2.6-1c2a libgnome2-dev libgnomecanvas2-dev
  libgnomecanvasmm-2.6-1c2a libgnomemm-2.6-1c2a libgnomeui-0-dbg
  libgnomeui-dev libgnomeuimm-2.6-1c2a libgnomevfs2-dev libgnustep-base1.11
  libgnustep-gui0.10 libgnutls-dev libgpg-error-dev libgtk-java libgtk-jni
  libgtk2.0-dev libidl-dev libio-string-perl libio-stringy-perl
  libjaxen-java libjdom0-java libjsw-dev libjsw2 libkdeedu3
  libmailtools-perl libmime-lite-perl libmime-perl libncbi6 libncbi6-dbg
  libncbi6-dev libnunit-cil libobjc1 libopencdk8-dev libopenexr2c2a
  liborbit2-dev liboro-java libossp-uuid-perl libossp-uuid13
  libpango1.0-dev libpopt-dev libregexp-java libsaxpath-java
  libsdl-image1.2 libsdl-mixer1.2 libsdl-ttf2.0-0 libservlet2.4-java
  libsmpeg0 libsoap-lite-perl libstdc++2.10-glibc2.2 libstdc++6-4.0-dev
  libstdc++6-dev libsvn-javahl libsvn0 libt1-5 libtasn1-2-dev
  libtimedate-perl libtool libvibrant6 libvibrant6-dbg libvibrant6-dev
  libxcursor-dev libxfixes-dev libxft-dev libxinerama-dev libxml-twig-perl
  libxp-dev libxrandr-dev liby2-14 linux-doc-2.6.15
  linux-image-2.6.15-27-686 linux-image-686
  linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15-27-686 linux-restricted-modules-686
  linux-source-2.6.15 loki loki-doc mcl med-bio med-bio-dev med-common menu
  menu-xdg mesa-common-dev mipe molphy muscle muscle-doc ncbi-data
  ncbi-epcr ncbi-epcr-data ncbi-tools-bin ncbi-tools-x11 ncbi-tools6 njplot
  odbcinst1debian1 openssh-server pdmenu perl-tk perlprimer perlprimer-doc
  phylip phylip-doc python-beagle python-biopython python-biopython-martel
  python-pygame python2.4-biopython python2.4-biopython-martel
  python2.4-numeric-ext python2.4-pygame readseq searchandrescue
  searchandrescue-common searchandrescue-data seaview ssh sun-java5-bin
  sun-java5-demo sun-java5-fonts sun-java5-jdk sun-java5-jre
  sun-java5-plugin sun-java5-source sysv-rc-conf sysvconfig t-coffee
  tetex-base tetex-bin tex-common textopo tigr-glimmer timezoneconf
  tree-puzzle tuxpaint tuxpaint-data tuxpaint-stamps-default unixodbc
  vibrant6 x-dev x11proto-fixes-dev x11proto-randr-dev
  x11proto-xinerama-dev xaw3dg xserver-xorg-input-joystick
0 packages upgraded, 7 newly installed, 265 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 51.7MB of archives. After unpacking 910MB will be freed.
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
  linux-686: Depends: linux-image-686 but it is not installable
             Depends: linux-restricted-modules-686 but it is not installable
Resolving dependencies...
The following actions will resolve these dependencies:

Keep the following packages at their current version:
acroread-plugins [7.0.1-0.0.ubuntu1 (dapper, now)]
autotools-dev [20050803.1 (dapper, dapper, now)]
desktop-base [0.3.16build1 (dapper, dapper, now)]
libmailtools-perl [1.62-1 (dapper, dapper, now)]
libtimedate-perl [1.1600-5 (dapper, dapper, now)]
libtool [1.5.22-2 (dapper, dapper, now)]
linux-image-2.6.15-27-686 [2.6.15-27.48 (dapper-security, dapper-security, now)]
linux-image-686 [2.6.15.25 (dapper-security, dapper-security, now)]
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15-27-686 [2.6.15.12-1 (dapper-security,
dapper-security, now)]
linux-restricted-modules-686 [2.6.15.25 (dapper-security, dapper-security, now)]
menu [2.1.27 (dapper, dapper, now)]
menu-xdg [0.2.2 (dapper, dapper, now)]
python-beagle [0.2.6-1ubuntu5 (dapper, dapper, now)]

Score is -587

Accept this solution? [Y/n/q/?] q
Abandoning all efforts to resolve these dependencies.
Abort.

```

Did I install the linux-686 incorrectly?

No, I did not.  I forgot to RTFM and STFW.  Apt-get and Aptitude use different tracking systems to keep score of what's been installed and what hasn't.  Synaptic (which I used to install the 686 kernel) is a GUI GTK mask over apt-get.  Aptitude is the 'new' preferred system, BUT once you start using one, you shouldn't go back and forth.  This is all explained on the package install section of the Debian Developer webite(s).

So nothing is broke...me thinks, just aptitude is a bit out-of-sync with apt-get.  Maybe their is a way to synchronise these two programs in a case such as this...

Later
- CH   :-k

---

### Post by frogotronic on 2006-12-12
if you are convinced everything is working (via apt-get and synaptic) you can use

```
sudo aptitude keep-all
```

to fix the issues with 

```
sudo aptitude -f install
```

- CH

:-D

---

