---
title: "Weird PSU noises"
date: 2007-06-03
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by smbm on 2007-06-03
I seem to be getting some weird electrical clicking sound being intermittently generated by my PSU.

It's quite high in pitch, repeats about 10 times a second and occurs for about 10 seconds every couple of minutes or so and then stops again.

It's a Seasonic so it's not cheap which is a little concerning. It's also fairly new, I think I got it in December last year.

Any ideas if this signifies anything or is it just my power supply being a bit weird?

Should I think about sending it off to be checked under warranty?

Cheers

Tom

---

### Post by KiwiNZ on 2007-06-03
Are you sure its electrical ?or is it dust etc in the fans? try blowing the PSU with air

---

### Post by smbm on 2007-06-03
> **KiwiNZ said:**
> Are you sure its electrical ?or is it dust etc in the fans? try blowing the PSU with air

Cheers for getting back to me.

I keep the case pretty dust free and the fan is rarely on anyway, it all runs pretty cool.

I tried giving it a quick blast of air anyway just in case. It's still doing it though.

There doesn't seem to be any burning smells or anything.

I've sent Seasonic's tech support an email just to see what they recommend.

Tom

---

### Post by smoker on 2007-06-03
if these noises have just 'suddenly' started happening then there will be a reason why. if still under warranty it may be advisable to have it checked out, do you have a spare you can use to do so?

if you've had any sudden restarts or shutdowns this could be connected to your psu, do you have a decent power surge protector on the mains supply?

---

### Post by smbm on 2007-06-03
I've noticed them in the last day or 2. It's possible they could've been there before, I've usually got some music playing at least but I've lent my speakers to someone so haven't had any sounds. 

I don't have a surge protector. I probably should get one of those.

In the mean time I might see about getting it checked under warranty.

---

### Post by smbm on 2007-06-03
I'm getting some pretty wild fluctuations in the -12v and -5v rails. That doesn't sound good.

Everything else seems to be functioning as it should though.

---

### Post by information_entropy on 2007-06-03
Is is getting warmer where you are, are air conditioners in your vicinity turning on and off.
Your problem sounds a lot like what happens when line voltages are fluctuating all over the place.

---

### Post by smbm on 2007-06-03
> **information_entropy said:**
> Is is getting warmer where you are, are air conditioners in your vicinity turning on and off.
Your problem sounds a lot like what happens when line voltages are fluctuating all over the place.

Hi

Thanks for the reply.

It's coming up to midnight here so it probably isn't that specifically. I guess it could be a noisy mains supply though. I have the day off tomorrow. Maybe I'll get one of those surge-protector-power-smoothing-deeleys, I guess it can't hurt (except my finances).

---

### Post by Lucifiel on 2007-06-03
Uhhh why don't you just RMA it?

No seriously... clicking PSU = likely to die PSU

I've experienced that before and  trust me, a dying PSU will take out your motherboard if it wants to.

Because my PSU died twice, I now have a slightly borked up system. And it likely damaged my hdd too.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-06-03
PSUs die like everything else.  Don't go cheap on them, they are one of the most important components to the computer, yet nobody seems to know/care about them!  You will probably get what you pay for!

---

### Post by Lucifiel on 2007-06-04
From what I know, Seasonic is a pretty good brand. However, all electronics will conk out one day, whether they are of good or bad quality. However, the quality of the PSU and the tests the PSU is subjected to will ensure for a longer shelf life. But the shelf life depends on issues like compability problems with certain motherboards, dirty power, etc.

If I were you, go look up your PSU model and brand on [http://www.johnnyguru.com](http://www.johnnyguru.com) and check out for any compability issues that could short out your PSU.

---

### Post by ramjet_1953 on 2007-06-04
Yes, modern power supplies are what are called [COLOR="Blue"]Switch Mode[/COLOR] supplies.

They are very efficient and quite reliable.

However, a down side is that when they do fail, the cosequences can be disastrous.

Because they don't have transformers, proving isolation, when they fail they can put nasty voltages onto your low voltage lines, killing your PC.

When they start to make noises, like you said, it is time to change it out, otherwise you could be very sorry, as you could also have to change your motherboard and peripherals, as well.

You indicated that you were getting voltage fluctuations, which is a sure sign of imminent failure.

Regards,
Roger :cool:

---

### Post by riven0 on 2007-06-04
I advise that you change your power supply. That happened to me, and luckily enough, I was able to get it changed before it did any damage. Don't take any risks.

---

### Post by smbm on 2007-06-04
Wow this thread's grown quite a bit whilst I was asleep.

I'm going to contact the retailer right now to find out about getting it swapped out.

Thanks for all your advice everyone, I'll post here to let you know how it goes.

---

