---
title: "MS Plans Low-Cost Windows for Brazil"
date: 2005-04-13
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by siropel on 2005-04-13
MS Plans Low-Cost Windows for Brazil

[http://linux.slashdot.org/linux/05/04/13/0153209.shtml?tid=201&tid=163&tid=109&tid=190&tid=218](http://linux.slashdot.org/linux/05/04/13/0153209.shtml?tid=201&tid=163&tid=109&tid=190&tid=218)

The guys at Ubuntu send free Cd`s to everybody ordering them, why don`t they just go to Brazil and "sell" them for a few cents, make a contract with the Government even ... In fact, why don`t they go to all the governments ? ... I`ll do it myself if they give me $ for the road ...

We got to help Brazil ...

---

### Post by primeirocrime on 2005-04-13
I mean, not only a campaign pro-ubuntu in detriment of micorsoft low cost windows, but actually participate in a way that helps the brazillian government make a cost efective and ethically correct decision. There are a certain number of brazillian distributions that could get a boost because of this and this could signify a growth to them also.

things pro-gnu/linux

no cost [ or even lower cost than windows]
comes with everything needed to work from start.

since there isn't a corporation of the size of microsoft to "buy" brazillian deputies or senators or whatever, gnu/linux can only count with the pressure generated by us the users and the community formed by us. 

of course things would change if there was a some participation of larger commercial gnu/linux distributions like red hat, suse/novell, mandriva [conectiva is brazillian]

this would be great boost for the Floss community, making brazil a sort of mammoth advocate for the Floss. Smaller autarchy like cities have made the move and even entire regions of a country like spain with [guadalinex](http://www.guadalinex.org)  becoming the OS for the Andalucia region.

So what can we do to help brazil not fall in the hands of microsoft?

---

### Post by Brunellus on 2005-04-13
I don't know what Microsoft plans to accomplish.  Pirated copies of the latest version of Windows are trivially easy to get everywhere in the third world, Brasil included.

Which, by the way, will probably stunt the growth of free software as well.  Why go through all the trouble to use free software when Windows is as easily and as cheaply available?

---

### Post by Brunellus on 2005-04-13
[QUOTE=primeirocrime]So what can we do to help brazil not fall in the hands of microsoft?[/QUOTE]

Brazil is *already* in the hands of microsoft.

---

### Post by primeirocrime on 2005-04-13
ok...so how can we *chop* them off?


there is hope. take munich and andalucía for an example...and the preseident of brazil is pro-free softare.

---

### Post by Brunellus on 2005-04-13
[QUOTE=primeirocrime]ok...so how can we *chop* them off?


there is hope. take munich and andalucía for an example...and the preseident of brazil is pro-free softare.[/QUOTE]

Microsoft will probably do it for us.  Robust copyright enforcement will drive third-world governments away from Windows.  

Note that I said "governments."  Individual users will continue to pirate Windows, since that's "how a computer works, anyway" and there is no price advantage to free software.

---

### Post by MasonM on 2005-04-13
[QUOTE=primeirocrime]since there isn't a corporation of the size of microsoft to "buy" brazillian deputies or senators or whatever, gnu/linux can only count with the pressure generated by us the users and the community formed by us. [/QUOTE]
Now why would you say something so obviously malicious and untrue? Everyone knows that Microsoft strictly adheres to honest, moral, and open business practices. :---) 

I seriously doubt that this latest maneuver is going to halt the use of the pirated copies of their wonderful and reliable products in Brazil.

---

