---
title: "Ubuntu moving to KDE"
date: 2009-05-24
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Changturkey on 2009-05-24
Is this true? I read somewhere that there were some IRC discussions that were related to this?

---

### Post by hanzomon4 on 2009-05-24
No

---

### Post by Dark Aspect on 2009-05-24
> **Changturkey said:**
> Is this true? I read somewhere that there were some IRC discussions that were related to this?

Please see [Kubuntu]("http://www.kubuntu.org/"), as a result I don't think Ubuntu is moving to KDE any time soon.

---

### Post by Xbehave on 2009-05-24
nope, in before lockage!

---

### Post by Simian Man on 2009-05-24
So what if it does?  You can install a plethora of desktops on any distro of Linux.  Who cares which one is "official"?

Flamewar in 3...2..1..

---

### Post by Changturkey on 2009-05-24
Er, I didn't intend to start a flame war, I was just asking a question.

---

### Post by days_of_ruin on 2009-05-24
KDE SUCKS!!!

[COLOR="Gray"]-- *This post was generated by Microsoft Visual Flame Thrower 2011 enterprise added-value edition*[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2009-05-24
Ha! Over my dead body.

**Anyways**, they're two different beasts, and there are lots of people who love either. I wouldn't mess around with that, and I don't think you should be concerned about it ever happenning.

If the ratio were more 99:1, then that would change things... but even XFCE users make up a decent percentage of 'buntu users.

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2009-05-24
> **Kareeser said:**
> Ha! Over my dead body.


Good idea --sarcasm sphere self-test complete.

---

### Post by 0per4t0r on 2009-05-24
> **days_of_ruin said:**
> KDE SUCKS!!!

[COLOR=Gray]-- *This post was generated by Microsoft Visual Flame Thrower 2011 enterprise added-value edition*[/COLOR]
So what exactly does KDE draw into its mouth by producing a partial vacuum by action of the lips and tongue?

---

### Post by init1 on 2009-05-24
I doubt there are any plans to, as there's already an official derivative with KDE.

---

### Post by samjh on 2009-05-24
You're a month and 25 days too late.  April Fools is loooong gone. ;)

---

### Post by pwnst*r on 2009-05-24
> **Changturkey said:**
> Is this true? I read somewhere that there were some IRC discussions that were related to this?

sensationalize your topic title much?

---

### Post by cl333r on 2009-05-24
> **Simian Man said:**
> So what if it does?  You can install a plethora of desktops on any distro of Linux.  Who cares which one is "official"?

Flamewar in 3...2..1..

No need for countdown since you're already in.

Canonical understands that it's a chicken n egg issue.

---

### Post by growled on 2009-05-25
We may have to wait and see how Gnome 3.0 goes before we answer that question. :D

---

### Post by geogur on 2009-05-25
i hope not ubuntu is so cool because of gnome

---

### Post by ghindo on 2009-05-25
Ubuntu already *has* moved to KDE - Kubuntu, anyone?

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-05-25
I had a bad experience with Kubuntu. No thanks.

---

### Post by TheNosh on 2009-05-25
> **HappyFeet said:**
> I had a bad experience with Kubuntu. No thanks.

like an "I found it unfamilliar and scary" experience or a "Kubuntu killed my family" kind of experience?:lolflag:

---

### Post by CJ Master on 2009-05-25
> **TheNosh said:**
> like an "I found it unfamilliar and scary" experience or a "Kubuntu killed my family" kind of experience?:lolflag:

Nope. Sorry to tell you this but Kubuntu killed.... Your mom. :P

[/immature]

---

### Post by chriskin on 2009-05-25
> **TheNosh said:**
> like an "I found it unfamilliar and scary" experience or a "Kubuntu killed my family" kind of experience?:lolflag:
best reply ever :)

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2009-05-25
I think this idea might have started after Mark Shuttleworth became a patron of KDE.  See [http://dot.kde.org/2006/10/15/mark-shuttleworth-becomes-first-patron-kde](http://dot.kde.org/2006/10/15/mark-shuttleworth-becomes-first-patron-kde)

---

### Post by itreius on 2009-05-25
I can confirm that Ubuntu will be moving from Gnome to KDE as the default desktop environment.

---

### Post by chriskin on 2009-05-25
> **itreius said:**
> I can confirm that Ubuntu will be moving from Gnome to KDE as the default desktop environment.

so, if YOU say it, i believe it :P
:popcorn::popcorn::popcorn:

---

### Post by Mazza558 on 2009-05-25
You just wait until KDE 4.3's out!

It's getting pretty epic.

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2009-05-25
> **Mazza558 said:**
> You just wait until KDE 4.3's out!

It's getting pretty epic.

Yeah I know I keep getting tempted to switch. Damn that screenshot thread.

---

### Post by Mazza558 on 2009-05-25
> **ad_267 said:**
> Yeah I know I keep getting tempted to switch. Damn that screenshot thread.

The only drawback is you need to upgrade to Karmic to get it easily.

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2009-05-25
> **Mazza558 said:**
> The only drawback is you need to upgrade to Karmic to get it easily.

Yeah I might install it on a separate partition, and maybe try another distribution.

---

### Post by calrogman on 2009-05-25
> **TheNosh said:**
> like an "I found it unfamilliar and scary" experience or a "Kubuntu killed my family" kind of experience?:lolflag:

That's not funny.  That's how my hamster died.

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2009-05-25
> **calrogman said:**
> That's not funny.  That's how my hamster died.

You sure that wasn't the chakra live-cd?

---

### Post by pwnst*r on 2009-05-25
> **itreius said:**
> I can confirm that Ubuntu will be moving from Gnome to KDE as the default desktop environment.

and you are...

---

### Post by Dark Aspect on 2009-05-25
> **TheNosh said:**
> like an "I found it unfamilliar and scary" experience or a "Kubuntu killed my family" kind of experience?:lolflag:

Kubuntu blow up my computer agh!?!?

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-05-26
Hi Changeturkey,

> **Changturkey said:**
> Is this true? I read somewhere that there were some IRC discussions that were related to this?

Don't know about Ubuntu but Slackware famously dumped GNOME some time ago.

Andrew

---

