---
title: "Forums for open discussion?"
date: 2011-11-22
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by tartalo on 2011-11-22
Hi,

Could you recommend me any forum where people are discussing about the future of Ubuntu and Linux in general without getting their threads merged and closed for no reason?

Thank you.

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-11-22
> **tartalo said:**
> Hi,

Could you recommend me any forum where people are discussing about the future of Ubuntu and Linux in general without getting their threads merged and closed for no reason?

Thank you.

It can be done here, the threads get merged or closed if the comments are not formed constructively or intelligently.

Negative feedback can be positive and constructive and doesnt need to be a rant.

IMHO

---

### Post by tartalo on 2011-11-22
> **haqking said:**
> It can be done here, the threads get merged or closed if the comments are not formed constructively or intelligently

Really? Have a look at the last page before the Unity MEGA Thread was closed: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1695432&page=568](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1695432&page=568)

What problem do you see with BobSongs messages for example? I think he was adding something to the discussion, the only noise I see there is generated by moderators or reactions to moderators' actions.

So, as asked, could you please recommend me other forums?

---

### Post by s.fox on 2011-11-22
It is closed for review. That is not to say it will not be opened again.

---

### Post by WasMeHere on 2011-11-22
So tartalo,

Please write an intro to this thread with your ideas; I think the best place is the first post, so edit it!

Apparently the thread can be closed if other people than you rant in your thread, but that's life. But let us hope that your thread will survive long enough for your ideas to be known to several of us in the Ubuntu Forums ;-)

Olle

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2011-11-22
It's quite sad that moderators have to spend more time policing than helping people with genuine difficulties.

I'm seeing people who claim to have moved on to another distro or who have moved back to the last LTS or who are using another DE make lengthy posts about Unity. Why?

---

### Post by Zlatan on 2011-11-22
> **tartalo said:**
> Hi,

Could you recommend me any forum where people are discussing about the future of Ubuntu and Linux in general without getting their threads merged and closed for no reason?

Thank you.

[http://forums.debian.net/]("http://forums.debian.net/") ?

---

### Post by tartalo on 2011-11-22
> **vasa1 said:**
> It's quite sad that moderators have to spend more time policing than helping people with genuine difficulties.

I'm seeing people who claim to have moved on to another distro or who have moved back to the last LTS or who are using another DE make lengthy posts about Unity. Why?

Please don't say in this thread what you would like to say in the Unity MEGA thread, this is not the Unity MEGA thread.

This is a very simple question:


Could you recommend any other forums where the future of Ubuntu and Linux in general is being / could be openly discussed?

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2011-11-22
> **Zlatan said:**
> [http://forums.debian.net/]("http://forums.debian.net/") ?
I was going to suggest [this]("http://forums.linuxmint.com/") but didn't ;)

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2011-11-22
> **s.fox said:**
> It is closed for review. That is not to say it will not be opened again.

Thank goodness for that !

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-11-22
> **tartalo said:**
> Hi,

Could you recommend me any forum where people are discussing about the future of Ubuntu and Linux in general without getting their threads merged and closed for no reason?

Thank you.

From the Ubuntu Forums Code of Conduct

> If a thread is flame-bait ([COLOR="Red"]appears to be intended to start an argument or is likely to cause an argument rather than enhance discussion[/COLOR], as in trolling), it will be locked or removed without notice.

So in this case you have a reason for it being closed.

---

