---
title: "PS3 TF2-0.CFG Add appropriate amount of bytes to CFG"
date: 2011-08-09
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Jesse Tustin on 2011-08-09
I am modding TF2 on PS3 and need to add the right amount of bytes to the file, not just one, or two. The file I need to add bytes to is TF2-0.CFG. I know this may not be the best forum for this type of question, but maybe some of you can help out.
 
I would apprieciate any help I can get. Thanks.
_________________________________________________________________________
"The gum made for you from dead Pikachus!"
 My PSN ID : aW_dawrenchbot

---

### Post by Legendary_Bibo on 2011-08-09
You need to add 9001 bytes

---

### Post by Quadunit404 on 2011-08-09
> **Legendary_Bibo said:**
> You need to add 9001 bytes

This.

Also, I'm not sure of the legality of modding console games. I know that Valve is very mod-friendly, but the extent of my knowledge of how mod-friendly they are is limited to the PC, where mods are entirely possible and easy to make.

---

### Post by Legendary_Bibo on 2011-08-09
> **Quadunit404 said:**
> This.

Also, I'm not sure of the legality of modding console games. I know that Valve is very mod-friendly, but the extent of my knowledge of how mod-friendly they are is limited to the PC, where mods are entirely possible and easy to make.

The guy who hacked/modded the PS3 and started distributing it was exiled from the U.S.

---

### Post by unknownPoster on 2011-08-09
> **Legendary_Bibo said:**
> The guy who hacked/modded the PS3 and started distributing it was exiled from the U.S.

That's hardware though. I think they are talking about software, TF2 on the PS3 in particular.

---

### Post by Jesse Tustin on 2011-08-10
Not the PS3 itself, the game Team Fortress 2 for PS3. So I guess it's legal. Ask HDR_X-TraX-iRoN

---

### Post by Thewhistlingwind on 2011-08-10
> **Legendary_Bibo said:**
> The guy who hacked/modded the PS3 and started distributing it was exiled from the U.S.

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Hotz](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Hotz)

If "Exile" means working at facebook.

Of course, you could mean someone else.

It only gets better when you read that he wants to be a neuroscientist.

---

