---
title: "R.I.P. Dio"
date: 2010-05-21
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Ms_Angel_D on 2010-05-21
I'm a little late in finding this out since I don't really watch the news or listen to the radio, but I just discovered that Ronnie James Dio Passed On Sunday.

May He Rest in peace, my heart goes out to his close friends and family. 

His music had a big effect on my youth, and he will surely be missed.


[Source]("http://www.usatoday.com/life/people/obit/2010-05-16-ronnie-james-dio_N.htm")

---

### Post by pwnst*r on 2010-05-21
Yep - old news, but RIP.  Even when I saw him last (I think he was about mid-50's, he STILL had an awesome voice live.  That's saying something.

Last in Line indeed...and a legend.

\m/

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-05-21
RIP Dio. He was one of the all time great metal singers.

---

### Post by PuddingKnife on 2010-05-21
DDIIIOOOO!! Time to go! You must give your cape and scepter, TO ME!!







[SIZE="1"]and a smaller one for KG[/SIZE]

---

### Post by BrokenKingpin on 2010-05-21
> **WinterRain said:**
> RIP Dio. He was one of the all time great metal singers.
This. Very unfortunate.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-05-21
> **Ms_Angel_D said:**
> I'm a little late in finding this out since I don't really watch the news or listen to the radio, but I just discovered that Ronnie James Dio Passed On Sunday.

May He Rest in peace, my heart goes out to his close friends and family. 

His music had a big effect on my youth, and he will surely be missed.


[Source]("http://www.usatoday.com/life/people/obit/2010-05-16-ronnie-james-dio_N.htm")

This is the first I've heard of it as well. Wow that sucks. :guitar:

---

### Post by Timmer1240 on 2010-05-21
I used to listen to Dio heavily back in the mid 80s last in line was an awesome album!Kick *** heavy metal loved it!Ronnie will be rockin in heaven with the rest of the legends that have past on into eternity Heaven must have one hell of a band!WE ROCK!RIP Ronnie see ya on the other side brother!

---

### Post by TheNerdAL on 2010-05-21
Rest in Peace Dio. :(

---

