---
title: "10.04 LOL What the Hell"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by kristobendito on 2010-05-09
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Tqu-ASvgzQ](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Tqu-ASvgzQ)
I have just one thing to say: LOL.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2010-05-09
Err, what?

---

### Post by kristobendito on 2010-05-09
> **kostkon said:**
> Err, what?
look at the end of the vid... 30secs..

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2010-05-09
Yep its also worth zooming the video up and watching the clock top right ...... speeded up somewhat ...... nice try ..... pretty fast graphics if it was real time though ...... and not skipping frames .....

---

### Post by proggy on 2010-05-09
:roll:

---

### Post by kristobendito on 2010-05-10
> **23dornot23d said:**
> Yep its also worth zooming the video up and watching the clock top right ...... speeded up somewhat ...... nice try ..... pretty fast graphics if it was real time though ...... and not skipping frames .....

I'm not here to impress you with speedy graphics, it's just the output of a video recorded with xvidcap i haven't edited the video, it outputs the video with that velocity, but.. look at the end of the video, the desktop becomes so bugged. And I had to do an /etc/init.d/gdm restart, to get the desktop working again.

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2010-05-10
> **kristobendito said:**
> look at the end of the vid... 30secs..
The whole video is a mere 31 seconds.

> **kristobendito said:**
> <snip>
 look at the end of the video, the desktop becomes so bugged. And I had to do an /etc/init.d/gdm restart, to get the desktop working again.
Are you referring to where it goes negative? That just looks like you accidentally hit Super+M or Super+N

---

### Post by thatguruguy on 2010-05-10
I don't get it.

---

### Post by ELD on 2010-05-10
I want those moments of my life back, most pointless video ever award goes to that!

---

### Post by Phrea on 2010-05-10
> **thatguruguy said:**
> I don't get it.

About to post the same exact thing. I don't get it either.

---

### Post by Shakz on 2010-05-10
Wow....I am still half heartedly trying to figure out how to make it so can drag windows to the next workspace.

---

### Post by kaustubhvp on 2010-05-10
> **ELD said:**
> I want those moments of my life back, most pointless video ever award goes to that!


right said!

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-05-10
To be fair, it doesn't do a bad job at giving a very quick overview of the Ubuntu interface.

---

### Post by chucky chuckaluck on 2010-05-10
+1 to what the hell?

---

### Post by YuiDaoren on 2010-05-10
It's a metaphor for the brevity and chaos that is life.

Very film-school.

---

### Post by kristobendito on 2010-05-10
Get full screen hd or something, I think you're probably Blind look at the end of the video, my screen becomes dark and then, I press Win+N and it don't just become negative, it wouldn't go back to normal state, and it was shaking the entire desktop without any reason.

---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2010-05-10
Another one for what the hell.

---

### Post by chillicampari on 2010-05-10
Errr... seven days?

---

