---
title: "7.04 and 353 updates ?"
date: 2007-04-21
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Dorsai on 2007-04-21
What gives ? I cant believe there are 353 updates waiting after installing 7.04, I guess it's a good thing they didn't release it before it was done....

---

### Post by Nikron on 2007-04-21
Huh?  This is still open source development strategy after all...  Release early, release often.

---

### Post by prizrak on 2007-04-21
Dude are you sure you didn't install one of the Herds or Betas? I was running 7.04 since Herd 2 and had like 10 updates in the final days. I didn't even have any updates when it went final had like 3 updates two days before and like 7 a day or two before that.

I don't even think all of the Herd updates were up to 500 since the second one.

---

### Post by Kujen on 2007-04-21
You, my friend, downloaded a beta most likely.

---

### Post by dreadlord_chris on 2007-04-21
I downloaded the release the morning it came out - and did a fresh install.
There were 2 updates: update-manager & update-manager-core

Sounds like you did mistakenly grab one of the beta's

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-04-21
Sounds like you installed the Beta or Release Candidate. I installed Feisty the day it was released and there was only 2 updates and they were for the Update Manager.

---

### Post by Spr0k3t on 2007-04-21
If you install the first beta after Herd5, you will see over 300+ updates.

Verified

---

### Post by diskotek on 2007-04-21
beta... (uh everybody telling the same)

---

### Post by mikerduffy on 2007-04-21
I, too, would like to say that you probably got the beta.  About 10 days before the release, I installed the beta, and I had to download a ridiculous number of updates in the days that followed.  At least you've got Final now...

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-04-21
> **prizrak said:**
> 

I don't even think all of the Herd updates were up to 500 since the second one.

Uh, yeah, Herd 2 to halfway into Herd 5 was like 653 updates.

At OP:

You are sure you downloaded the final, right? And not like 6.10 by mistake?

---

### Post by teet on 2007-04-21
I bet you accidentally downloaded the beta.

*snickers*

Come on guys...one or two of these responses was probably enough.

-teet

---

