---
title: "10.04 Beta ISO?"
date: 2009-11-14
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Unanimated on 2009-11-14
Where can I get the ISO for the 10.04 BETA? I want to virtualize it and see how good it is, and maybe see if I can contribute anything. Help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-14
> **Unanimated said:**
> Where can I get the ISO for the 10.04 BETA? I want to virtualize it and see how good it is, and maybe see if I can contribute anything. Help would be appreciated.

There is no beta yet. In fact, there isn't even an alpha yet.

---

### Post by 23meg on 2009-11-14
> **HappyFeet said:**
> There is no beta yet. In fact, there isn't even an alpha yet.

In fact, there aren't even daily images yet. 

There really isn't much worth testing in Lucid right now, unless you're a toolchain hacker. That's not going to change any time before a week or two after UDS, which is taking place the coming week.

The [release schedule]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidReleaseSchedule") might be helpful.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2009-11-14
Long story short, if you really want Lucid: install Karmic and upgrade.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-14
I'll probably start testing when alpha2 or 3 comes out.

---

### Post by kpholmes on 2009-11-14
> **23meg said:**
>  That's not going to change any time before a week or two after UDS, which is taking place the coming week.


is there a UDS after every release?

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2009-11-14
> **kpholmes said:**
> is there a UDS after every release?

Yes.

---

### Post by longtom on 2009-11-14
> **23meg said:**
> That's not going to change any time before a week or two after UDS, which is taking place the coming week.

Help the unwashed.  What is a UDS.

---

### Post by v8YKxgHe on 2009-11-14
Ubuntu Developer Summit, a gathering of Earthlings.

---

### Post by longtom on 2009-11-14
> **AlexC_ said:**
> Ubuntu Developer Summit, a gathering of Earthlings.

Thank you!

---

### Post by ZankerH on 2009-11-14
Looking at the release schedules, looks like they've cut down on the number of static pre-releases, with just three alphas and two betas. Doesn't really matter much to those of us who install alpha 1 and go from there, but more static pre-releases did help to get more people into the testing procedure. I understand how it might be seen as a waste of time for an inherently dynamic system under active development though.

---

