---
title: "R.I.P. Neil Armstrong"
date: 2012-08-25
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by mips on 2012-08-25
Neil Alden Armstrong August 5, 1930 &#8211; August 25, 2012


[http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/08/25/us-usa-neilarmstrong-idUSBRE87O0B020120825](http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/08/25/us-usa-neilarmstrong-idUSBRE87O0B020120825)

> **[COLOR="Black"]First man on moon Neil Armstrong dead at 82: family[/COLOR]**

By Mary Slosson
Sat Aug 25, 2012 4:48pm EDT

**(Reuters) - U.S. astronaut Neil Armstrong, who took a giant leap for mankind when he became the first person to walk on the moon, has died at the age of 82, his family said on Saturday.**

The family said in a statement online that Armstrong died following complications from heart-bypass surgery he underwent earlier this month, just two days after his birthday on August 5.

As commander of the Apollo 11 mission, Armstrong became the first human to set foot on the moon on July 20, 1969. As he stepped on the dusty surface, Armstrong said: "“That's one small step for (a) man, one giant leap for mankind."

[More...]("http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/08/25/us-usa-neilarmstrong-idUSBRE87O0B020120825")

---

### Post by Buntu Bunny on 2012-08-25
Very sad news indeed.

---

### Post by KiwiNZ on 2012-08-26
I still remember that day clearly, R.I.P.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2012-08-26
In their time of grief I hope his family feel real pride in the achievements of a great pilot, a humble leader and a fearless explorer.

---

### Post by synaptix on 2012-08-26
The world lost a great man that was a credit to our race, advancing us into the future rather than pushing us back towards the stone ages.

RIP Mr. Armstrong, you will not be forgotten!

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-08-26
It was all staged, people! ;)
(Just joking)

He had the right stuff.

---

### Post by synaptix on 2012-08-26
> **forrestcupp said:**
> It was all staged, people!

That is what some say, but the Mythbusters proved them wrong!

---

### Post by Paqman on 2012-08-26
> **forrestcupp said:**
> It was all staged, people! ;)


Wouldn't let his boy Buzz Aldrin hear you say that if you like your teeth.

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-08-26
Rip


404

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-08-26
Although the story of Armstrong's best wishes to Mr. Grotzky is a myth, it is a good story.

Since story of Armstrong's walk on the moon is true, it is a better story.

He was an unwilling hero, yet he was a hero.

RIP.

---

### Post by Metallion on 2012-08-27
My favourite Let's Player made this. [Kerbal Space Program - Wink At The Moon - YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h4TKR3bj744)

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-08-28
Did Neil Armstrong flub his quote, or was it static?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-08-28
> **forrestcupp said:**
> Did Neil Armstrong flub his quote, or was it static?

I seem to recall this being discussed by Neil in 1999, 30th anniversary of the landing. He said he *thought* he said "one small step for *a* man" but that when he listened to the recordings he didn't hear it. So it was added parenthetically to the quote: "That's one small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind."

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-08-28
Frankly, after all these years and all the discussion I don't remember if I heard a moment of static or not.  I don't remember him saying "a".  Given the nature of what was happening, I can certainly forgive him if, in the excitement of the moment, he flubbed.  What he said just then is less important than what he did.

---

### Post by mr john on 2012-08-28
Not sure if it's true or cold war propaganda, but it's always sad when another human being dies. RIP.

---

### Post by eddier on 2012-08-28
Rest in peace Neil Armstrong-You were the first one there and it belongs to you.

My eldest son was born 30.6.69.( or 6.30.69)  What a month!

eddie

---

### Post by mips on 2012-08-29
> **QIII said:**
> I don't remember him saying "a".

I never knew there was an 'issue' around this. I just went to go look at the videos and I heard no 'a'.

Anyway, this guy is the first person to walk on the moon and people are concerned with whether there was an 'a' in the sentence or not :lolflag:

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-08-29
> **mips said:**
> I never knew there was an 'issue' around this. I just went to go look at the videos and I heard no 'a'.

Anyway, this guy is the first person to walk on the moon and people are concerned with whether there was an 'a' in the sentence or not :lolflag:

He, himself, was pretty embarrassed about it, to the extent of having NASA try to cover it up by saying there was static and they couldn't tell for sure if he said 'a' or not. Without the 'a', what he said pretty much contradicted itself. 30 years later, he said he didn't know if he said "a man" or not. I think everyone knew what he was talking about, though.

---

### Post by bob-linux-user on 2012-09-04
If you listen to the sound clip there is no space or discernible static, Neil dropped the "a". However as someone mentioned previously on this forum this should not detract one iota from his absolutely brilliant acheivement.

RIP Neil Armstrong

---

