---
title: "$1.00 to ubuntu?"
date: 2006-01-19
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by neoflight on 2006-01-19
Well I was thinking...
how about we pool in  $1.00 (just a dollar) each from _only those who like to contribute_ from the forum..that will make a substantial sum to the ubuntu teams.  there are 66,822 members registered and we can assume that atleast 40% are somewhat active...dont know for sure...moderators will be able to tell.

i am ready... what about u?

---

### Post by ssam on 2006-01-19
its a good idea. but unfortunatly small donations are rather inefficient. fees have to be paid to paypal for each donation, and the smaller the individual payments, the larger chunk of fees that come out.

does someone know the exact amounts?

---

### Post by adam.tropics on 2006-01-19
lets all send a stamp to cover the cost of one new shipit set instead.......daft, but come to think of it.....!

---

### Post by adam.tropics on 2006-01-19
All jokes aside it occurs to me that a more practical proposition would be that we all burn off a couple cds and convert at least say, 2 or 3 people by Easter. Do that 66,822 times a quarter and who knows.....Plus thinking of it, it's just 2 or 3 people each. How hard can it be? The more users we can get whilst incurring minimum costs to Ubuntu the better, surely.

---

### Post by curuxz on 2006-01-19
Why dont we all do what a play station magazine did a few years ago (cant remember which one) which was to hold a compedition, just for the hell of it. The idea was simple you had to either A) do something to promote the playstation or B) do something to demote the Xbox. Winner was who ever could convert the most people or get the most media attention for their activities. 

I think it got shut down after a few 'anti-xbox' rallies got a little out of hand and a few people had their names changed to ps2 games to get press attention. Perhaps we could do the same, a PR compeition. Biggest pro-ubuntu publicity stunt wins?

---

### Post by macewan on 2006-01-19
or a nude ubuntuforum.org members calendar?

---

### Post by GeneralZod on 2006-01-19
[QUOTE=macewan]or a nude ubuntuforum.org members calendar?[/QUOTE]

Good thinking - I'd definitely pay a dollar to prevent that :)

---

### Post by Gandalf on 2006-01-19
[QUOTE=ssam]
does someone know the exact amounts?[/QUOTE]
From my paypal account
[quote="paypal F.A.Q"]
What are the fees charged for using PayPal?

 Registering is free, as well as sending payments. Receiving payments is subject to low fees. The standard rate is €0,25 EUR + 3.4% per transaction (fees are charged automatically when receiving payments).

Cross-border payments are free for users in the Euro zone, for all payments in Euro. An extra fee of 0.5% is added in all other cases.

For sellers with high sales volume, PayPal offers a Merchant Rate. To receive the Merchant Rate, you needed to apply with PayPal.

Fees charged for receiving payments vary according to monthly sales volume.

The spread per monthly volume is as follows:

    * < €2 500,00 EUR: €0,25 EUR + 3.4%
    * €2 501,00 EUR - €10 000,00 EUR : €0,25 EUR + 2.9%
    * €10 001,00 EUR - €50 000,00 EUR: €0,25 EUR + 2.7%
    * €50 001,00 EUR - €100 000,00 EUR: €0,25 EUR + 2.4%
    * > €100 000,00 EUR: €0,25 EUR + 1.9%

Withdrawals are free above €100,00 EUR€1,00 EURis charged in all other cases). 
[/quote]

---

### Post by Lovechild on 2006-01-19
[QUOTE=GeneralZod]Good thinking - I'd definitely pay a dollar to prevent that :)[/QUOTE]

Depends.. I hear The King is a sexy beast.

---

### Post by curuxz on 2006-01-19
As the Tod would say....its time to hamock up!


hmmm ubuntu calander, could be intresting in a disurbing way. :S Im guessing people would think its the national beard convention calander judging from the people I know who use linux! lol

---

