---
title: "G.ho.st? Ripping off &quot;For human beings&quot;?"
date: 2009-03-16
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by RedPandaFox on 2009-03-16
Two questions, first off:

Has anyone tried [_G.ho.st_?]("http://g.ho.st/?language=en") Apparentlty its an online vertual PC, so you can have all your apps and docs online, im assuming like Google Docs etc. It seems like an awesome idea and I want to know if anyone has tried it.

Secondly I notice that the motto for G.ho.st seems to be "A Free Web-based Virtual Computer for every human being."

Now when I read that the first time "for every human being." kinda made me wonder if its incuring on any Ubuntu and Canonical rights for the phrase "For human beings"

---

### Post by cmat on 2009-03-16
To put it simply. No. It'd be like where ever the words "human beings" shows up their is an obvious canonical rip-off.

---

### Post by RedPandaFox on 2009-03-16
> **cmat said:**
> To put it simply. No. It'd be like where ever the words "human beings" shows up their is an obvious canonical rip-off.

I ment more of the context it was in, but anyway...

Has anyone givin it a go yet?

---

### Post by Mehall on 2009-03-16
> **RedPandaFox said:**
> I ment more of the context it was in, but anyway...

Has anyone givin it a go yet?

I just signed up to try, though I'll mostly use it as remote storage.

EDIT: When It asks you for your address, I advise choosing "US". Because of how the system will work, my guess is they rely on honesty to make non-US pepole unable to access Hulu (assuming there is a browser in the OS.)

RE:EIDT: Browser isn't functional as of now, but I do believe I was correct ;)

---

### Post by JohnFH on 2009-03-16
Doesn't work for me - can't connect.

What's the point anyway?  Another pointless cloud experiment is it not?

---

### Post by Mehall on 2009-03-16
> **JohnFH said:**
> Doesn't work for me - can't connect.

What's the point anyway?  Another pointless cloud experiment is it not?

All it takes is one GOOD cloud, but google haven't got into gear about it yet (heh Google Gears + google cloud = offline cloud stuffs!!)

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2009-03-16
It is basically like EyeOS, and I like EyeOS better right now.

---

### Post by armageddon08 on 2009-03-16
I'd tried that quite a few months back. With the slow connection I've, I haven't logged in for months.

---

### Post by Mehall on 2009-03-16
> **smartboyathome said:**
> It is basically like EyeOS, and I like EyeOS better right now.

Christ, I forgot I had an EyeOS account!

---

### Post by armageddon08 on 2009-03-16
> **Mehall said:**
> Christ, I forgot I had an EyeOS account!

Darn yes...I've one to.

---

### Post by Mehall on 2009-03-16
> **armageddon08 said:**
> Darn yes...I've one to.

I have an account on something else like that, but I forget what it is., lol

---

### Post by armageddon08 on 2009-03-16
> **Mehall said:**
> I have an account on something else like that, but I forget what it is., lol

I think I should check my e-mails for the account verification mails. May be I could find out where else do I have an account.

[EDIT]: Got it...I've one in Glide.

---

