---
title: "DDR2 800 or 1066?"
date: 2009-09-26
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Gosport on 2009-09-26
Motherboard:
Brand       GIGABYTE
Model       GA-MA785G-UD3H
FSB       2600MHz Hyper Transport (5200 MT/s)
North Bridge       AMD 785G
South Bridge       AMD SB710

CPU:
Name       Phenom II X3 720
Operating Frequency       2.8GHz
Hyper Transports       4000MHz

[SIZE=3][COLOR=black]What type of memory is most appropriat; [/COLOR][/SIZE][SIZE=3][COLOR=black]DDR2 800 or DDR2 1066 (assume the processor is not overclocked) ?[/COLOR][/SIZE][SIZE=3]  Why?  If the 1066 is more appropriate is it worth the extra money for a non-gaming system?[/SIZE]

---

### Post by Firestem4 on 2009-09-26
To be honest you probably won't notice a difference. Overtime I'm sure the 1066mhz will shave a few minutes from being wasted, but any bottleneck will be elsewhere.

Since you are not gaming i'd say go with the 800mhz and save the money.

---

### Post by Gosport on 2009-09-26
That is good, because I bought the 800.  I had heard that the 1066 required tinkering with the bios (I am not sure if that is an issue with my motherboard.  Does anybody know?)  Being afraid of that I went with the 800 and then had regrets.  I started doing some research and it seemed that timings had a lot to do with the equation.

---

### Post by Skripka on 2009-09-26
> **Gosport said:**
> That is good, because I bought the 800.  I had heard that the 1066 required tinkering with the bios (I am not sure if that is an issue with my motherboard.  Does anybody know?)  Being afraid of that I went with the 800 and then had regrets.  I started doing some research and it seemed that timings had a lot to do with the equation.

It depends on the mainboard, and the RAM.  Sometimes it plugs and works and sometimes it doesn't.

---

### Post by Gosport on 2009-09-27
> **Skripka said:**
> It depends on the mainboard, and the RAM.  Sometimes it plugs and works and sometimes it doesn't.


How can you tell?

---

### Post by Malta paul on 2009-09-27
You could check you motherboard's 'User Guide' and it should tell you.
Often it will tell you the memory type/model details. I would say DDR2 800 would work fine for your specification though.
If you don't have a user guide go to the motherboard site, you should be able to download it.    
Good luck:)

---

### Post by cammin on 2009-09-27
[http://www.gigabyte.us/FileList/MemorySupport/mb_memory_ga-ma785g-ud3h.pdf](http://www.gigabyte.us/FileList/MemorySupport/mb_memory_ga-ma785g-ud3h.pdf)

---

### Post by Skripka on 2009-09-27
> **Gosport said:**
> How can you tell?

Usually reviewers online can warn you.  

Myself I wouldn't even bother with 1066mHz DDR2, as up to 1200mHz DDR2 is available-but that is me...the catch being due to the high clock on that RAM and the fact that no one mentions the stuff in official support in mainboard documentation, that plug-and-play support may be iffy...although in my lookings the OCZ offerings tend to regularly need timing/voltage tweaks, whereas Kingston et al do not-from what I have read.

---

