---
title: "13.xx  capturing analog video with DVC-100 (like VCR tapes)"
date: 2014-01-03
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-03
If anyone is interested in how to capture video/audio from analog sources (like a VCR) in Linuix using the Dazzle DVC-100, please let me know and I'll create a small how-to.

I searched before for the answer but never found one, and I've seen others on the same quest.  I did get it working (simple, actually, I just plain didn't know ;) ).

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-03
*Thread moved to **The Cafe**.*

Not a support request. Perhaps just post it in [*Tutorials*](*Tutorials*).

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-03
Okay, there's been 114 views, s I'm guessing someone wants to know.  I'll work on a small how-to and try to post it in tutorials this weekend some time.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-05
I created a thread in the tutorials for this, but for those searching this thread for a solution here is the link for a PDF of the how-to:

[DVC-100 Video Capture With Ubuntu]("http://ubuntuone.com/1rAegypPM0fScqYhfBlOkH")

---

### Post by yorgabr-gmail on 2014-06-15
@squakie,

U1 is down. Please, could you share that tutorial in another way?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-19
I'll have to see if there is any way for me to retrieve it, as it isn't on my PC anymore.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-06-19
*Thread Closed*. 

Old thread with a dead link. Here is the tutorial, also with a dead link:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2197712&highlight=DVC-100](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2197712&highlight=DVC-100)

Please post there rather than waking this one up which eventually ends up at the tutorial anyway. Thanks.

@squakie: Please try and fix the link on the tutorial otherwise there is no point in leaving it open. Better still, just post the how-to in the first post of the tutorial, which is where it should be. Cheers. ;)

---

