---
title: "8.10RC vs. 8.10 Final"
date: 2008-10-28
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by OZFive on 2008-10-28
I know I have seen somewhere in here that someone said that they had installed 8.10RC and would just do a Update when Final came out.  

My question is,is that a good idea?  Will there be more changes between the RC and the Final Release that would be more than just an update can bring up to date?

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2008-10-28
> **OZFive said:**
> Will there be more changes between the RC and the Final Release that would be more than just an update can bring up to date?

No.

The RC will update to the Final.

As for whether it's a good idea - depends on how critical your machine is for the next few days (i.e. an RC is not strictly "stable").

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2008-10-28
Wait until the final is released. Since the RC I have downloaded/installed >60mb of updates.

Wait 2 days. I have the RC installed, but I have to format/install it again because of a bug with seeing my ntfs partitions. Not worth my time to install RC again and get updates. You'd be better off keeping what you have for 2 days. Although if you havn't tested any of the alphas/RC to see if livecd works with your ahrdware, you could try it.

Yes you can install the RC and get the updates, and you won't have to do anything to "get" the final, you will simply have it if you have been getting the udpates.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2008-10-29
I recommend waiting for the final release as well. Just a few days away!

---

### Post by macogw on 2008-10-29
But installing the RC and updating means not having to wait 5 hours to install software on release day when the servers are crashing.

And yes, it's safe.

And no, there won't be a lot of changes.  I mean, RC means Release Candidate.  It's "this is what we think we'll release. everyone ok with that?  ok good."

---

### Post by Ub1476 on 2008-10-29
I hope you admins put up a sticky to use torrent. Otherwise the world might collapse tommorow.

---

### Post by eentonig on 2008-10-29
For home use and you plan to install 8.10 as soon as it's released? Install RC now and upgrade when 8.10 is available. The end result will be the same and you don't have to compete with millions downloading at the same time.

For professional use? Wait untill 8.10 is released and then wait a few weeks more. See what other bugs or glitches need to be ironed out first before releasing it in a production environment.


(Btw. This advice would go for all software you'd want to release in a production environment. Every peace of soft has bugs in them. And most of them only get found once tons of people start using them. So most (critical) bugfixes only appear once the final product is released. Allthough, due to the open nature of GNU, a lot more issues are caught and handled with before release day)

---

### Post by EdThaSlayer on 2008-10-29
> **stmiller said:**
> I recommend waiting for the final release as well. Just a few days away!


You mean just a couple of hours away. ;)
I just can't wait for a couple of days. :)

---

### Post by bobbocanfly on 2008-10-29
The RC is pretty much exactly the Final. The only changes now are things for release critical bugs (most of which were fixed in the last few days, woooo) and even then, you have to have awesome persuasion powers to persuade the release manager to let you upload. Basically you will be fine, and puts a lot less strain on the servers then downloading the whole ISO, or all updates at the same time.

---

### Post by blablatestbla on 2008-10-29
I'm waiting for the final for the simple reason that I want as few updates as possible on the Ubuntu CD that I burn. If I then try out the Live CD elsewhere, I'd prefer the most patched version as possible.

Also, the servers won't strain. How can they? They'll be a ton of mirrors. Heck I'm gonna be downloading from my ISP so that I have the fastest download (faster than torrents) without losing any quota from my monthly allocation.

---

