---
title: "12.04 what i expect and what i got"
date: 2012-04-27
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by hero1900 on 2012-04-27
hi to all
i wanted to share this with all of you to see if you got same idea regarding this new 12.04.
i install a fresh version of 12.04 today, and after that i install nvidea driver and other main software i need then i faced multiple crashes for java programs also compiz crashes many times and window border disappear. i try to install on other machine hp g4 and i faced black screen so i couldnt install it.
so i really was blank isnt 12.04 suppose to be more stable???

---

### Post by Version Dependency on 2012-04-27
Been stable on all the machines I've put it on (3 so far).  On my main machine, I've been running 12.04 since the alpha...and haven't had any major issues, certainly no black screens.  How did the live CD work on your machines?  Did it work without any problems?

---

### Post by keithpeter on 2012-04-27
> **hero1900 said:**
> hi to all
i wanted to share this with all of you to see if you got same idea regarding this new 12.04.
i install a fresh version of 12.04 today, and after that i install nvidea driver and other main software i need then i faced multiple crashes for java programs also compiz crashes many times and window border disappear. i try to install on other machine hp g4 and i faced black screen so i couldnt install it.
so i really was blank isnt 12.04 suppose to be more stable???

Hello hero1900

What graphics card do you have? I've got a GeForce GT520 cheapo card in this recycled Xeon workstation. No issues.

Did your install work ok before installing the proprietary nvidia drivers?

I've found that these things are usually hardware related.

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-04-27
It's supposed to be an LTS, which means Long Term Support and does not necessarily mean more stable, although that is to be hoped.

I would suggest starting a thread specifically for each issue you have encountered and asking for suggestions.  You may actually have encountered bugs -- which should be reported through launchpad.

You'll find that out by posting threads and getting several heads together on things.

---

### Post by hero1900 on 2012-04-27
[COLOR=Black]12.04 suppose to be more stable since ubuntu said so. the machine that does got black screen ([/COLOR]**[SIZE=1][COLOR=Black]HP Pavilion g4-1204tx) has AMD Radeon HD 6470M  and i couldnt even install ubuntu since i got nothing witht he live cd (i used same live cd on both machine so its working well).[/COLOR][/SIZE]**

regarding crashes. in 11.10 compiz was not crashing everytime i close a game or graphical application but in 12.04 it really annoying it does it so many times.


i just really disapointed since my machine was always running well except when they start this unity thing, i am not against the idea but it seems it will never get stable i dont know what is the issue with compiz

---

### Post by keithpeter on 2012-04-27
> **hero1900 said:**
>  the machine that does got black screen ([/COLOR][B][SIZE=1][COLOR=Black]HP Pavilion g4-1204tx) has AMD Radeon HD 6470M  and i couldnt even install ubuntu since i got nothing witht he live cd (i used same live cd on both machine so its working well).

I suggest you do as Q111 said: post a separate thread for each issue on each machine. 

I have nvidia hardware, so I might be able to find stuff about nvidia cards. 

AMD is not my thing.

---

### Post by hero1900 on 2012-04-27
i already make one in askubuntu and no answer and there is similar question too and it has been there for long time and no answer but i will make new one here for the AMD issue
thx

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-04-27
Please make a thread for the issues in the relevant sub-forums.  This isn't a support area.


404

PS - FTR I have had the same issues with my Radeon today... and I got it working so feel free to PM me when you have created your support thread and I will participate.

---

