---
title: "10.04 - Good job!"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by SkillenUK on 2010-05-01
I think that this is the correct forum to post this in but I just wanted to say that Ubuntu 10.04 is fantastic, great job to everyone involved. I was converted using 9.04 but 9.10 didn't work for me at all (wouldn't even boot and if it did was incredibly unstable) with on my old laptop. I'm amazed that the latest version is working, it boots so fast and looks so good. It has came a long way since 9.04 and is back to 'just working' again. The social networking stuff is also great, love it! :P:P

Chris.

---

### Post by Khakilang on 2010-05-01
I got a older computer running Lubuntu Lucid Lynx and my daughter's old notebook is running 9.10 and my main computer which is about 3 years old by now is running Ubuntu 10.04. No problem detected so far.

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2010-05-01
With Ubuntu 9.10 I had a lot of problems with acpi: problems booting, multimedia keys, sound ...

I've switched to Mint after those problems (Mint had slightly less problems but it wasn't quite as it should be) 

But now, the installation of 10.04 went almost perfect. The only problems I encounterred where:

[LIST]
[*]The mint theme wasn't recognised by ubuntu so I got something like a windoze 95 theme until I changed the theme
[*]the ff flash plugin for 64 bit computers is still a problem (but I have to blame Adobe for it)
[/LIST]

I couldn't beleave the boot speed would be so high but it's incredible.

Thanx to all developers of Lucid Lynx. 

YOU'VE DONE A GREAT JOB

---

### Post by NMFTM on 2010-05-01
Lucid seems, so far like a very well built OS that does it's designated job of 'just working'. Although, I haven't noticed any decrease in boot times. But it doesn't really matter unless you have a laptop or power down your desktop when it's not in use, neither of which I do.

---

### Post by insane_alien on 2010-05-01
i can't say i'm a fan of it(personal opinion, not trying to flame). mostly aesthetic issues but hey, can't have it all and i use arch most of the time anyway.

other than a few niggles, it is a very solid job just one i don't like. its quite hard to fault from a technical standpoint.

---

### Post by Dixon Bainbridge on 2010-05-01
I like it too apart from the fact that i have to keep manually mounting usb drives. Annoying. Any reason why this has happened?

---

### Post by Linuxforall on 2010-05-01
Fully agreed, six PCs so far and two laptops and its going great.

---

