---
title: "Fri Feb 13 23:31:30 UTC 2009"
date: 2009-02-08
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by zmjjmz on 2009-02-08
UNIX time will be 1234567890.
It's somewhat unnerving that it happens to fall on Friday the 13th...

---

### Post by kavon89 on 2009-02-08
Interesting, and it just barely makes the cutoff on the 13th.

---

### Post by Niksko on 2009-02-08
Spooky!

I propose some sort of worldwide *nix party, if such a thing is possible.

-Nik

---

### Post by Dr Small on 2009-02-08
> **Niksko said:**
> Spooky!

I propose some sort of worldwide *nix party, if such a thing is possible.

-Nik
Of course it's possible. All zmjjmz needs to do here is Slashdot this news and it will be recorded in history :)

---

### Post by Erik Trybom on 2009-02-09
And it's the day before Valentine's day!

Foreboding, I tell you!

---

### Post by perce on 2009-02-09
> **zmjjmz said:**
> 
It's somewhat unnerving that it happens to fall on Friday the 13th...

Don't worry, it's Friday 17th that brings bad luck

---

### Post by chucky chuckaluck on 2009-02-09
it's my lucky number, so i don't care (i also have a black cat that likes to walk under step ladders).

---

### Post by zmjjmz on 2009-02-09
> **Dr Small said:**
> Of course it's possible. All zmjjmz needs to do here is Slashdot this news and it will be recorded in history :)

It's been /.'d already, but it didn't make the main page.

---

### Post by Dr Small on 2009-02-09
> **zmjjmz said:**
> It's been /.'d already, but it didn't make the main page.
What on earth are you talking about? I saw it on the main page today.

---

### Post by zmjjmz on 2009-02-09
> **Dr Small said:**
> What on earth are you talking about? I saw it on the main page today.

I didn't, but it wasn't on the main page when I first saw the article.

---

### Post by Kingsley on 2009-02-09
> **Niksko said:**
> Spooky!

I propose some sort of worldwide *nix party, if such a thing is possible.

-Nik
My university happens to have a LAN party on that day. Close enough, right? :)

---

### Post by quanumphaze on 2009-02-09
Want a count down? (thanks to [eddy]("http://tech.slashdot.org/comments.pl?sid=1120587&cid=26776451") from Slashdot)
```
while true; do let a=1234567890-`date +"%s"`; echo $a; sleep 1; done
``` and just crtl+c to quit it

Or just```
while true; do date +"%s"; sleep 1; done
```for a count up

---

### Post by blueshiftoverwatch on 2009-02-09
> **quanumphaze said:**
> Want a count down? (thanks to [eddy]("http://tech.slashdot.org/comments.pl?sid=1120587&cid=26776451") from Slashdot)
```
while true; do let a=1234567890-`date +"%s"`; echo $a; sleep 1; done
``` and just crtl+c to quit it

Or just```
while true; do date +"%s"; sleep 1; done
```for a count up
Thanks for that.

---

### Post by Trail on 2009-02-11
I'll make sure I won't forget to celebrate this :)

(On a similar note, on 14th of March, 1:59 is the international day for Pi (3.141592...))

---

### Post by rotwang888 on 2009-02-12
If you want to set your gnome clock to display unix time, there's a guide at [http://atylmo.wordpress.com/2009/02/10/howto-get-unix-and-internet-time-to-display-on-gnomes-clock-again/](http://atylmo.wordpress.com/2009/02/10/howto-get-unix-and-internet-time-to-display-on-gnomes-clock-again/)

---

### Post by Giant Speck on 2009-02-12
68,000 seconds remain!

---

### Post by Giant Speck on 2009-02-13
48,000 seconds remain!

---

### Post by Giant Speck on 2009-02-13
15,400 seconds remain!

---

### Post by Dr Small on 2009-02-13
[http://coolepochcountdown.com/](http://coolepochcountdown.com/)

---

