---
title: "LibreOffice - does anyone else have this bug"
date: 2011-10-30
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by azangru on 2011-10-30
A couple of weeks ago, after a routine system update, which included the update of LibreOffice, Writer became exceedingly, excruciatingly slow when opening files (a .doc file that previously took several seconds to open may now take about a minute, depending on its formatting and the amount of pages). It's not unusual for me to work with 200+-page Word documents, and it's really becoming a pain.

First, I thought there was something with the responsiveness of LibreOffice itself, but then I realized that it does something to the .doc files it saves - they become about 1.5 to 2 times larger than before. I've just made a quick test: saved a small doc file in OpenOffice 3.2 - the size was 19.5 KiB. Then I opened it in LibreOffice and, without making a single change to it, saved it under a different name - its size jumped to 27.5 KiB. When I take the files saved in LibreOffice to my netbook and try to open them in OpenOffice (not updated for a long time, so may be regarded as a sort of reference) it takes ages to open. Clearly, the problem is not with the speed of LibreOffice, but with something that it does to the files while saving them. Odt files also seem to be affected, although not as badly as docs (they open quicker).

It doesn't affect MS Word, by the way - Word opens these newely saved files without a hiccup.

So, my question is, does this sound familiar? Has anyone else experienced this? Or is it a weird glitch of my particular system?

I run OpenSUSE 11.4 with KDE, by the way, but I hope it doesn't matter too much. The version of LibreOffice is 3.4.2 (Build: 1206).

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2011-10-30
> **azangru said:**
> ...
I run OpenSUSE 11.4 with KDE, by the way, but I hope it doesn't matter too much. The version of LibreOffice is 3.4.2 (Build: 1206).

What feedback did you get from the OpenSUSE forum?
You could also ask over here:
[http://nabble.documentfoundation.org/Users-f1639498.html](http://nabble.documentfoundation.org/Users-f1639498.html)

---

### Post by azangru on 2011-10-30
> **vasa1 said:**
> What feedback did you get from the OpenSUSE forum?

I came here first :-) I haven't yet registered at the OpenSUSE forums.

So everything is fine with LibreOffice in Ubuntu?

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2011-10-30
> **azangru said:**
> I came here first :-) I haven't yet registered at the OpenSUSE forums.

So everything is fine with LibreOffice in Ubuntu?

Well, I didn't really understand what you are trying to do.

Here's a link to a MS-Word document:
[http://nseindia.com/content/members/mem_new_corporate.doc](http://nseindia.com/content/members/mem_new_corporate.doc)

It's ~229 kB (29 pages). I could open it with LibreOffice 3.4.3 (which comes with Ubuntu 11.10).

I saved it via LibreOffice using save as and the format as .docx. That file is 39.1 kB.

I don't normally work with MS files and can't give a more detailed answer.

I forgot to mention that there wasn't any special lag while opening either the original or the .docx version (generated by saving the original in LibreOffice 3.4.3 as a .docx file.)

---

### Post by billstei on 2011-11-06
I am also seeing very slow file load times, and occasional sluggish GUI response, with LibreOffice 3.4.3 and Ubuntu 11.10 in Unity.

---

### Post by bryncoles on 2011-11-07
I've noticed incredible sluggishness with LibreOffice in Xubuntu 11.10, but as it's the first time I have used LibreOffice (and they used to say OpenOffice was ugly!), I thought it was normal!

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-07
There is a way to accelerate OO file opening, but because you have to load the program on startup, then you have a sluggish computer.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2011-11-07
Have you considered that this could be due to changes in the Microsoft Office format that Libreoffice is trying to be compatible with?

I do not use Microsoft Office but I have downloaded a couple of Microsoft Word documents. Which I opened in Libreoffice and copied and pasted into a Libreoffice document which I then saved. The difference in file sizes was amazing. A Microsoft doc file of 5.9MB is just over 500KB when in odt format.

Microsoft puts a great deal of extra information in the documents apart from the text and the text format.

Regards

---

### Post by rjbl on 2011-11-07
> **azangru said:**
> A couple of weeks ago, after a routine system update, which included the update of LibreOffice, Writer became exceedingly, excruciatingly slow when opening files (a .doc file that previously took several seconds to open may now take about a minute, depending on its formatting and the amount of pages). It's not unusual for me to work with 200+-page Word documents, and it's really becoming a pain.

First, I thought there was something with the responsiveness of LibreOffice itself, but then I realized that it does something to the .doc files it saves - they become about 1.5 to 2 times larger than before. I've just made a quick test: saved a small doc file in OpenOffice 3.2 - the size was 19.5 KiB. Then I opened it in LibreOffice and, without making a single change to it, saved it under a different name - its size jumped to 27.5 KiB. When I take the files saved in LibreOffice to my netbook and try to open them in OpenOffice (not updated for a long time, so may be regarded as a sort of reference) it takes ages to open. Clearly, the problem is not with the speed of LibreOffice, but with something that it does to the files while saving them. Odt files also seem to be affected, although not as badly as docs (they open quicker).

It doesn't affect MS Word, by the way - Word opens these newely saved files without a hiccup.

So, my question is, does this sound familiar? Has anyone else experienced this? Or is it a weird glitch of my particular system?

I run OpenSUSE 11.4 with KDE, by the way, but I hope it doesn't matter too much. The version of LibreOffice is 3.4.2 (Build: 1206).

No. Have never seen this problem in LibreOffice in Ubuntu 11.04 nor any previous version of LibreOffice, OpenOffice or StarOffice in any previous GNU/Linux based OS. 

BTW opening .doc files by MS Office has been a major problem with MS Word for at least the last 15 years - since Office 95. You see, MS keep fiddling around with their default file formats and they ain't good on interoperability, never have been.

The way it works is you send a document from your shiny new MS Office 2011 to your business partner Fred. He can't read it, or even open it, because he is still using Office 2000 and isn't going to p@ss-orf his employees, and his bank manager, by buying 100 new word processors every two years. He can't read your document. You can't do business together. Simples. innit?

rjbl 

rjbl

---

### Post by ballantony on 2011-11-07
Since moving to 11.10 I'm having slow load and save files with SOME writer files, but very slow saves with the one calc file I use.  I think I'll take a closer look at this...

---

### Post by beew on 2011-11-07
Not having any problem in 11.04. Seems like everyone having problem is on 11.10. In general I find 11.10 very sluggish (say scrolling on Firefox) so I am not surprised that LibreOffice is also slow. 11.10 is not quite ready overall. I quite expect bugginess when it is not even a month after release, you are asking for troubles by rushing to upgrade/update,--there is no advantage to that, really. I will wait a few months before I give it another look.

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2011-11-07
I don't notice any difference in any other apps under 11.10 speed wise except that Libre Office is now **much** slower to start than it was under 11.04.

---

