---
title: "V 2009"
date: 2009-11-28
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Pasdar on 2009-11-28
Watched the first four episodes yesterday, its good. Any other people here watch it? Is it true that the next episode will be released in march? :o

---

### Post by Exodist on 2009-11-28
I watch it, was.. 
I dont know what the hell is with this 4 shows per season crud????
It just starts getting good and then their like, thats the season finally?
Not sure when its coming back. :frown:

---

### Post by gnomeuser on 2009-11-28
They always planned to air the episodes in little pods, you get 4 now, then more in the spring. They are hoping to make it more of an old fashioned TV event this way.

That being said, I am greatly enjoying the new V, it's a little obvious in certain places but generally it is a good show. I am looking forward to March.

---

### Post by Starlight on 2009-11-28
I've seen the first four episodes, and they were very good. :) I wish they didn't decide to wait a few months before airing the next episodes.

---

### Post by derekeverett on 2009-11-28
I enjoyed it, but for me it was overall a little bit of a disappointment. I thought episode 4 picked things up a bit.. if it wasn't for that I'm not sure I would have remained interested in to the spring. But now I'll likely keep watching for a bit.

It's no Supernatural though that's for sure!

---

### Post by Knowle on 2009-11-29
I've enjoyed it a lot. I read they were pausing it for the winter olympics. I also got to watch the original mini-series when they aired a marathon on the Syfy channel the day before the start of the new series. I never get to watch it when it airs though since I'm stuck at work so I watch it when it appears on Hulu.

---

