---
title: "inverse search\source special in evince"
date: 2009-05-09
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by zibi on 2009-05-09
Now that kdvi is no more an option it really seems to me ncessary to have the inverse search function in evince.

I would like to post it as an idea on ubuntu brainstorming.

Does anyone know if someone had already posted my brilliant (eheh) idea?

Anyway, here is the idea number 
Idea #19734: Allow (source special) inverse search in evince

 Vote!!

---

### Post by Stefanie on 2009-05-09
You can still install kdvi, just grab the intrepid .deb from  [http://packages.ubuntu.com/en/intrepid/kdvi](http://packages.ubuntu.com/en/intrepid/kdvi) . It works perfectly on Jaunty.  

Okular also has direct/inverse search support now, and it works really well. The only problem is that all my LaTeX documents just won't render properly in Okular, it's really ugly.  

Inverse search in Evince would be nice, but I don't know if it is high on the priority list. As long as we have kdvi I think highlighting/comment support is much more important for Evince.

---

### Post by perce on 2009-05-09
Why is kdvi not an option anymore? was it removed/replaced by something? 

xdvi as a last resort does inverse search very well (at least paired with emacs) but its interface is quite ugly.

---

### Post by Stefanie on 2009-05-09
Kdvi isn't in the Jaunty repos anymore, it's replaced by Okular (which does not do the job for me). Xdvi still works, but it makes my eyes hurt.

---

### Post by perce on 2009-05-09
Thank you.

> **Stefanie said:**
>  Xdvi still works, but it makes my eyes hurt.

You mean because it's ugly or because it doesn't render your dvi files correctly? by the way, are you a mathematician or a physicist?

---

### Post by Stefanie on 2009-05-09
I'm a linguist :-) 
About xdvi, I meant the interface, which is not only ugly but also very unpractical for me... Xdvi renders all my LaTeX files perfectly, if Okular did the job as well I'd probably ditch kdvi. Is anyone else having problems with Okular font rendering?

---

### Post by perce on 2009-05-09
> **Stefanie said:**
> I'm a linguist :-) 

Cool! I'm happy to see that people outside the Math/Physics community are using Latex.

I've tried Okular on Intrepid, and yes, the fonts look terrible. I have a similar problem if I open ps files using gv.

---

### Post by Stefanie on 2009-05-09
Most formal linguists use LaTeX because their papers are full of formulas. I'm a functional linguist, and sadly enough most colleagues I know somehow manage to write their dissertations and papers in MS Word :-s I've been using LaTeX since I was an undergrad and really can't miss it :-)

I really don't know what's wrong with Okular font rendering for LaTeX documents. PDF's generated by OpenOffice work fine so I think it has to do with the way LaTeX fonts are handled... I briefly discussed this with some Okular devs on IRC but they told me Okular rendering should be the same as in kdvi.

---

