---
title: "Is Jaunty getting there?"
date: 2009-06-23
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-23
I have been suffering some performance issues with Jaunty, but after this week updates, which included kernel, xorg and compiz, I have the feeling the Jaunty is finally getting where I expected.

Users  with powerful processors probably won't notice the improvements, but since I have a P4 3.06Ghz, the difference is amazing. I have been optimizing my system and Firefox for a while (see tweaks [here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1152095) and [here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1193567)), but I think the updates deserve some attention.

Take a look at my Firefox benchmark results below. They were generated by [Peacekeeper](http://service.futuremark.com/peacekeeper/index.action) along this month. The last one was obtained today, after compiz and xorg updates.

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=118681&stc=1&d=1245764692[/IMG]

My regular Firefox profile, with several extensions, had 100% performance improvement since I installed Jaunty. Additionally, CPU usage is becoming less and less intensive. Take a look at my top results:

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=118685&stc=1&d=1245766056[/IMG]

Do you feel the same way?

---

### Post by kalmahlk on 2009-06-23
Ubuntu seems to punish single core systems, but thrive on dualcore and better.

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-06-23
Moved to recurring discussions.

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-06-23
Check out this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1139131.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1139131.html) I think thats why they moved it.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-23
> **wojox said:**
> Check out this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1139131.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1139131.html) I think thats why they moved it.

Thanks, but is not the same. I want to know about update improvements since the release, not if it is better than Ibex or not.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-06-23
I moved this thread back to the cafe. Let up keep the conversation on topic, which in the words of the OP are :

> **lovinglinux said:**
> It's not a thread about if Jaunty is good or not, but how updates and tweaks affect the performance. I really would like to hear from other users about their experiences, because I don't know how much the performance could be improved between releases.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2009-06-23
I really dont know if I want to give jaunty another try, with my intel card jaunty was much too slow.

---

### Post by treesurf on 2009-06-23
I have an intel GM965 chipset and the latest compiz updates allowed me to return to the stock kernel.  I'm not sure about the xorg updates because I'm running newer version of that.  Anyways, what with the latest updates compiz runs nicely again and "random" processor activity has diminished significantly.  A definite improvement.  Everything seems a little snappier.

---

### Post by potrick on 2009-06-23
I've no idea what they did, but everything feels faster AND multiple monitors works again. Bravo.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-23
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> I moved this thread back to the cafe. Let up keep the conversation on topic, which in the words of the OP are :

Thank you very much.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-23
> **treesurf said:**
> I have an intel GM965 chipset and the latest compiz updates allowed me to return to the stock kernel.  I'm not sure about the xorg updates because I'm running newer version of that.  Anyways, what with the latest updates compiz runs nicely again and "random" processor activity has diminished significantly.  A definite improvement.  Everything seems a little snappier.

> **potrick said:**
> I've no idea what they did, but everything feels faster AND multiple monitors works again. Bravo.

These are great news. So I'm not the only one experiencing improvements since last update and I'm not confusing them with my own tweaks. I think I will keep a log of benchmarks from now on, so I can compare them with future releases.

It seems to me that there aren't many tweaking tutorials for Ubuntu out there, but if this kind of improvement, provided by updates in the middle of the release cycle is a common thing, than I surely will upgrade to Karmic went it comes out. I thought that most of the updates were only security related, but it seems that the developers are still trying to make Jaunty better than it already is, instead of just focusing on Karmic. Kudos for them.

---

### Post by stwschool on 2009-06-23
I've rolled out the updates on a few of our boxes. Graphical performance is still not great on the Intel graphics we have at the school (why can't we have NVIDIA?) and so far I'm not seeing significant performance upgrades from the kernel upgrade, xorg, etc.

---

### Post by Saint Angeles on 2009-06-23
I lUv JaUnTy! OmGlOlBbQ!!

i think jaunty is a pretty cool OS. eh runs fast and doesn't afraid of anything...

---

### Post by bubbhasdance on 2009-06-23
It is moving much faster since the updates, I agree. Firefox loads a lot faster, and overall boot/shutdown time is a tad quicker as well. Overall, it just feels speedier, which is great.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-23
> **bubbhasdance said:**
> It is moving much faster since the updates, I agree. Firefox loads a lot faster, and overall boot/shutdown time is a tad quicker as well. Overall, it just feels speedier, which is great.

My boot time actually increased 3 seconds. I'm not a bootchart expert, but it seems that I have now a heavy I/O wait between 12 and 14 seconds, which seems to be related to syslogd and kjournald2. Any ideas why?

My bootchart image is attached.

---

### Post by Sephoroth on 2009-06-24
I haven't noticed any significant boost or slowdown in performance.  I still need to see performance after the updates though as X wouldn't run after applying them (had to re-install Nvidia drivers).

---

