---
title: "Pwn2Own 2009"
date: 2009-03-18
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Perpetual on 2009-03-18
[Pwn2Own 2009: Safari/MacBook falls in seconds.]("http://blogs.zdnet.com/security/?p=2917")  Sorry but that made me chuckle.

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2009-03-18
That's impressive.:P

Lets see how long it takes to crack open IE8.

There's no Ubuntu machine this year?

> The browser targets will be IE8, Firefox, and Chrome installed on a Sony Vaio running Windows 7 as well as Safari and Firefox installed on a Macbook running Mac OS X. 


Ubuntu was the last one standing last year - it was really good publicity.

.

---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2009-03-18
Safari again? They got pwned last year too if I'm not mistaken.

---

### Post by linuxisevolution on 2009-03-18
The last time I said o-w-n-e-d I got an infraction.

So I'm just gonna say we get more publicity :)

---

### Post by init1 on 2009-03-18
Yeah, I've heard that was going to happen.

---

### Post by schauerlich on 2009-03-18
You know, people probably spend more time working on Safari/OS X exploits because you're not cool if you can write a Windows exploit anymore. Not quite security through obscurity... more like security through stroking one's own ego.

---

### Post by Perpetual on 2009-03-18
[IE8 & Firefox went.]("http://blogs.zdnet.com/security/?p=2934")

---

### Post by BGFG on 2009-03-18
respect to the Hackers. shocked that ie8 went down second though.

---

### Post by deepclutch on 2009-03-19
another source says :
>  The Pwn2Own contest is being presented as a shootout between Mac and Windows browsers[COLOR=Blue]_. _[/COLOR]**[COLOR=Blue]_Last year's contest also included Linux, but attendees with the ability to crack Linux "didn&#8217;t want to put the work into developing the exploit code that would be required to win the contest," according to a report by IDG_[/COLOR].**
[http://www.appleinsider.com/articles/09/03/19/mac_security_researcher_wins_pwn2own_contest.html](http://www.appleinsider.com/articles/09/03/19/mac_security_researcher_wins_pwn2own_contest.html)

hey!What does that means?Ubuntu is the Pioneer distro in user-friendliness and ....got sudo as de-facto. These hackers can't crack Linux? I am the Happiest Person in the World. :D

---

### Post by sydbat on 2009-03-19
Looks like Google Chrome didn't get pwnd? Or they just haven't reported it yet?

---

### Post by conundrumx on 2009-03-19
To be fair to the software that's been "owned," (especially Safari, which everyone is reporting as "within seconds") these guys have been researching and developing exploits for months in preparation of this event.  It's not like they sat down with something they'd never seen before and went from there.

Of course the exploits only take seconds, they're executing code to take over the machine, not downloading the Bee Gees discography.

---

### Post by Perpetual on 2009-03-19
> **conundrumx said:**
> To be fair to the software that's been "owned," (especially Safari, which everyone is reporting as "within seconds") these guys have been researching and developing exploits for months in preparation of this event.  It's not like they sat down with something they'd never seen before and went from there.

Of course the exploits only take seconds, they're executing code to take over the machine, not downloading the Bee Gees discography.

Very true.  I found the [Charlie Miller interview]("http://blogs.zdnet.com/security/?p=2941") interesting.

---

