---
title: "12.2% unemployment rate where I live! What is the unemploment rate where you live?"
date: 2009-09-16
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by HappinessNow on 2009-09-16
12.2% unemployment where I live! What is the unemployment rate where you live?

[SIZE=1][COLOR=Silver](Note: please keep this topic on economics and Not politics)[/COLOR][/SIZE]

---

### Post by Omnios on 2009-09-16
Its 6.3% in Oshawa Ontario Canada.
8.7% for the province of Ontario Canada. 

 It just jumped and or is jumping as one of the car plants just shutdown. We had a GM truck plant and we have a GM car plant. The truck plant closed down and it is estimated that 7 local jobs will be lost for every 1 GM job lost.

---

### Post by sunchiqua on 2009-09-16
12.3% @ Latvia

---

### Post by OutOfReach on 2009-09-16
10.9% in my county, highest percent since ~1992/3

---

### Post by Giant Speck on 2009-09-16
United States military: 0% unemployment.  :p

---

### Post by Tibuda on 2009-09-16
Unemployment here is [6.1% ("taxa de desocupação")]("http://ibge.gov.br/home/estatistica/indicadores/trabalhoerendimento/pme_nova/pme_200907mg_01.shtm").

Off-topic: you make a lot of threads.

---

### Post by Whiffle on 2009-09-16
8.2% here in Texas,  6% here in my county.  This state has a great economy, no income tax, and is very small business friendly.

---

### Post by sena_akada on 2009-09-16
0-100%

---

### Post by Nevon on 2009-09-16
That depends entirely on how you calculate unemployment. What about people under 18? Old people? Sick people? What about newly arrived refugees?

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-09-16
11% here in Sunny Florida

---

### Post by johnl on 2009-09-16
> Unemployment rate, Boulder County, CO
	
6.6% of the labor force (Not seasonally adjusted) Jul 2009

Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
 .

---

### Post by the8thstar on 2009-09-16
11% in France in 2010 according to OECD ([http://www.oecd.org/home/0,3305,en_2649_201185_1_1_1_1_1,00.html]("http://www.oecd.org/home/0,3305,en_2649_201185_1_1_1_1_1,00.html")

---

### Post by SuperSonic4 on 2009-09-16
10.6% in the West Midlands, England although this article is dated August 2009 so it will be higher but today's figures are proving harder to find than usual

[http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/8197479.stm](http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/8197479.stm)

---

### Post by Muffinabus on 2009-09-16
9.2% in Mexico, Missouri as of July 2009.

---

### Post by scragar on 2009-09-16
7.9% for the UK(Actually that figure is only accurate up until the end of last month, so could be off a little).

---

### Post by RiceMonster on 2009-09-16
> **Omnios said:**
> Its 6.3% in Oshawa Ontario Canada.
8.7% for the province of Ontario Canada. 

 It just jumped and or is jumping as one of the car plants just shutdown. We had a GM truck plant and we have a GM car plant. The truck plant closed down and it is estimated that 7 local jobs will be lost for every 1 GM job lost.

You're from the Shwa eh? I live near Oshawa, so the employment rate would be around the same.

---

### Post by Warpnow on 2009-09-16
> **Nevon said:**
> That depends entirely on how you calculate unemployment. What about people under 18? Old people? Sick people? What about newly arrived refugees?

The real flaw in unemployment calculations is the discouraged worker who has been out of work for so long he is no longer actively looking. He is unemployed by conversational standards, but not economic ones. He is not counted.

And underemployment is generally as dangerous as unemployment.

---

### Post by RabbitWho on 2009-09-16
Ireland - 12 % 
Czech Republic - 8%

What's really funny, is that google is about 5 years out of date and it automatically throws you back the answer as being 4.5% 

Hundreds of companies have gone out of business here in the last year and a half . Here's the most recent article I could find: [http://www.sun-sentinel.com/news/nationworld/sns-ap-eu-ireland-economy,0,1887238.story?track=rss](http://www.sun-sentinel.com/news/nationworld/sns-ap-eu-ireland-economy,0,1887238.story?track=rss)
12.4 as of September second. 

That's why I live and work in the Czech Republic. Almost everyone I know in Ireland is out of work or about to loose their job. 

> 
That depends entirely on how you calculate unemployment. What about people under 18? Old people? Sick people? What about newly arrived refugees?

They don't count. Unemployed statistics count people who are of working age and physically and mentally capable of working but who do not have jobs. 

What on earth are they teaching you in school!?

---

### Post by ericmc783 on 2009-09-16
Cleveland, Ohio. 9.3% as of July 2009.

For the entire state of Ohio: 11.1%.

And for the US: 9.6%

---

### Post by Bölvaður on 2009-09-16
Record breaking unemployment numbers where I live.
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=128842&stc=1&d=1253143622[/IMG]

The % is expected to drop as when students turn to their educational institutions there will be great room for those that are unemployed to seek their jobs.
Students over 18 and didn't get a job over the summer can register as unemployed now. So that might be pushing the numbers up also. Convicts, handicapped people, and people that are inbetween jobs are also counted as unemployed from what I understand... which isn't much when it comes to this sort of things.

I hope it will return to normal soon.

---

### Post by pt123 on 2009-09-16
Australia - 5.8%
My State - NSW - 6.1% it fell by .3% in a month
[http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2009/08/06/2647719.htm](http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2009/08/06/2647719.htm)

The GFC hasn't impacted Australia much.

---

### Post by HappinessNow on 2009-09-17
> **pt123 said:**
> Australia - 5.8%
My State - NSW - 6.1% it fell by .3% in a month
[http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2009/08/06/2647719.htm](http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2009/08/06/2647719.htm)

The GFC hasn't impacted Australia much.5.8% is very low comparatively speaking.

---

### Post by fourtyseven on 2009-09-17
25.5% here.

---

### Post by sim-value on 2009-09-17
4,2%

Before Crisis we had Full-Employment (atleast thats what THEY said :P)

---

### Post by gn2 on 2009-09-17
The most recent figures on my local council's website shows 1.4% unemployment.

---

### Post by artir on 2009-09-17
Canary Islands (Spain): 25% percent

---

### Post by -grubby on 2009-09-17
8.8% in Washington.

---

### Post by Mark76 on 2009-09-17
UK: 4.2% (unemployment rates by gender are: 5.9% male and 2.4% female)
East Midlands Region: 4.1% (5.7% & 2.4%)
Leicestershire (inc' Leicester): 4.3% (5.8% & 2.6%)
Leicestershire (exc' Leicester): 3.1% (4.1% & 1.9%)
Leicester city UA: 6.8% (9.5% & 4.0%)

I think Leicester has the worst unemployment rate of the three major urban centres in the East Midlands :(

---

### Post by HappinessNow on 2009-09-18
> **fourtyseven said:**
> 25.5% here.

> **artir said:**
> Canary Islands (Spain): 25% percent

...and I thought 12.2% was high.

---

### Post by coldReactive on 2009-09-18
8.4% or so, in Wisconsin.

---

### Post by KiwiNZ on 2009-09-18
Currently at 6% in New Zealand

---

### Post by jocheem67 on 2009-09-18
6% 

Holland

Pretty low compared to the other EU countries.

---

### Post by Kimm on 2009-09-18
About 8% in Sweden

---

### Post by moster on 2009-09-18
> **Nevon said:**
> That depends entirely on how you calculate unemployment. What about people under 18? Old people? Sick people? What about newly arrived refugees?

What are the rate of work capable people sitting at home doing nothing. Clear enough?

---

### Post by Giant Speck on 2009-09-18
> **moster said:**
> What are the rate of work capable people sitting at home doing nothing. Clear enough?

No, it's not.  Because, for example, a twelve-year-old could be perfectly capable of working; however, because of their age and because of child labor laws in many countries, they probably wouldn't be considered part of the work force even if they were working.

---

### Post by Tibuda on 2009-09-18
> **moster said:**
> What are the rate of work capable people sitting at home doing nothing. Clear enough?

These people are not included in the unemployment rate. What you are describing is the inactivity rate. Unemployment rate counts only how many people are not working, but are looking for a job (which is not nothing).

To be clear:
x = people not working and not looking for a job
y = people not working and looking for a job
z = people working
activity rate = (y + z) / (x + y + z)
unemployment rate = y / (y + z)

---

### Post by moster on 2009-09-18
> **Giant Speck said:**
> No, it's not.  Because, for example, a twelve-year-old could be perfectly capable of working; however, because of their age and because of child labor laws in many countries, they probably wouldn't be considered part of the work force even if they were working.

> **danielrmt said:**
> These people are not included in the unemployment rate. What you are describing is the inactivity rate. Unemployment rate counts only how many people are not working, but are looking for a job (which is not nothing).

To be clear:
x = people not working and not looking for a job
y = people not working and looking for a job
z = people working
activity rate = (y + z) / (x + y + z)
unemployment rate = y / (y + z)

If you really want, you two could complicate something so simple like taking a dump. How % of humans **capable of work** do not work. Of course that do not include people in school, sick, too young, too old, retarded, etc..

---

### Post by SomeGuyDude on 2009-09-18
Reported unemployment in my area was 19.5% last I heard on the news. Taking into account grads like myself that aren't collecting unemployment, it could be as high as 25%.

---

### Post by blithen on 2009-09-18
9.5 here in Spokane, Washington.

---

### Post by Tibuda on 2009-09-18
> **moster said:**
> If you really want, you two could complicate something so simple and natural like taking a dump. How % of humans **capable of work** do not work. Of course that do not include people in school, sick, too young, too old, retarded, etc..

But this is not unemployment. Unemployment is not about the people capacity, but about people availability to work. There are capable people that don't want a job. The proper question is: How % of humans that want to work do not work?

The first sentence in the [Wikipedia entry]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unemployment") is this:
> Unemployment occurs when a person is available to work and **seeking work** but currently without work.

---

### Post by castrojo on 2009-09-18
28.9%

Go Detroit!

[http://www.freep.com/article/20090827/NEWS01/90827037/1320/Detroit-jobless-rate-a-record-28.9-](http://www.freep.com/article/20090827/NEWS01/90827037/1320/Detroit-jobless-rate-a-record-28.9-)

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2009-09-18
10.2% in Georgia[URL="http://data.bls.gov/PDQ/servlet/SurveyOutputServlet"]
[/URL]

---

### Post by KiwiNZ on 2009-09-18
The human cost of this is terrible. I wonder if the financial institutions will learn the lesson this time or will history repeat its self in say 20 years? , alas probably.

The seeds are already being sown. Certain banks in the northern hemisphere have not reviewed their fiscal policies one iota.

---

### Post by chris200x9 on 2009-09-18
> **whiprush said:**
> 28.9%

go detroit!

[http://www.freep.com/article/20090827/news01/90827037/1320/detroit-jobless-rate-a-record-28.9-](http://www.freep.com/article/20090827/news01/90827037/1320/detroit-jobless-rate-a-record-28.9-)

+1 you from east or westside?

---

### Post by SomeGuyDude on 2009-09-18
> **KiwiNZ said:**
> The human cost of this is terrible. I wonder if the financial institutions will learn the lesson this time or will history repeat its self in say 20 years? , alas probably.

The seeds are already being sown. Certain banks in the northern hemisphere have not reviewed their fiscal policies one iota.

Learn what lesson? Their pockets are fatter than ever thanks to bailouts with no oversight. For a lot of the AIG and Citibank types, the meltdown was the best thing that could have happened to them. Why should they give a sh!t about unemployment and poverty rates?

---

### Post by Exodist on 2009-09-18
US Bureau of Labor Statistics says 10.5% for Mississippi USA.
But IMHO thats FULL OF STINKY BROWN STUFF.
Right now where I live for example its between 1/4 and 1/5 that have no job. The company I work for has already lade half its employees off and its doing better then most others local factories.
I dont see how unemployment rate can be only 10.5% when 3 out of every 5 factories in MS are already shutdown and bankrupt with the others getting hit very hard as well. IMHO

I guess they may consider McDonalds and Bugerking "employment".  I do not!

---

### Post by Garrovick on 2009-09-18
A little over 10 percent in South Carolina. About 2.5 percent in my County area.

---

### Post by Groucho Marxist on 2009-09-18
> **&#20170 said:**
> 12.2% unemployment where I live! What is the unemployment rate where you live?

[SIZE=1][COLOR=Silver](Note: please keep this topic on economics and Not politics)[/COLOR][/SIZE]
*15.6% for Michigan* :(

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2009-09-18
Calgary 6.9%
Edmonton 7% 
All Alberta 7.2%

That is way up from a low of 3.6% a year or two ago.

---

### Post by chriskin on 2009-09-18
> **&#20170 said:**
> 12.2% unemployment where I live! What is the unemployment rate where you live?

[SIZE=1][COLOR=Silver](Note: please keep this topic on economics and Not politics)[/COLOR][/SIZE]

9% formal unemployment

---

