---
title: "100000 users"
date: 2006-04-26
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by ssam on 2006-04-26
woot, 100k users on the forums.

edit: missed a zero

---

### Post by tmahmood on 2006-04-26
Wow! Thats very nice... Congrats to all UbuntuForums people

---

### Post by jc87 on 2006-04-26
I have a dream , in which users will be able to choose hardware based on their personal tastes and not in their Operating System.

I have a dream , in which i will give to my friends/family technical support in Gnu/Linux machines instead of the Windows-ones.

I have a dream , in which i will not be automatically ranked as a "geek/nerd" just because i use a unix-like OS.

I have a dream , in which the sons of the sons of Stallman , Trovalds , Theo de Raad , Gates , etc... will join hands in the hills of open standards and live together in harmony and peace and without BSODS or Flamebaits (ok , with some flamebaits , Linus is to good at putting a smile at people faces:D )

---

### Post by openmind on 2006-04-26
100,000 Users and almost **1 Million Posts! **

But that means that the average member posts 10 times or less, given those that have posted much more than  ten times, there's a lot of members that come on, ask a question or two then leave, never to be seen again.:(

---

### Post by atoponce on 2006-04-26
[quote=openmind]100,000 Users and almost **1 Million Posts! **

But that means that the average member posts 10 times or less, given those that have posted much more than  ten times, there's a lot of members that come on, ask a question or two then leave, never to be seen again.:([/quote]  Which, frankly, I don't mind.  Hopefully, we will have answered their question, and helped them out.  If they had a good experience, there is no doubt they will return.

---

### Post by CurlyChris on 2006-04-26
[QUOTE=openmind]100,000 Users and almost **1 Million Posts! **

But that means that the average member posts 10 times or less, given those that have posted much more than  ten times, there's a lot of members that come on, ask a question or two then leave, never to be seen again.:([/QUOTE]

Speaking personally, I've only ever had to ask about 3 questions since I've been a member of this forum (1 year now), cos for everything else I've always been able to search the forum and find a solution. :-D 

This makes me Very Happy! :D 

And I've been hanging around ever since, chipping in occasionally (when I think I've got something to contribute) but with no thoughts of leaving.  'Specially now, what with Dapper only weeks away......  \\:D/ 

So don't get hung up about the *Quantity* of posts per user, take pride in the *Quality* of the information on this site instead! :cool: 

Chris

---

### Post by Get on 2006-04-26
100k users = #195 of 229 on the world population list, not bad!
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_population](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_population)

---

### Post by htinn on 2006-04-26
I wonder how many are bugmenot accounts.

---

### Post by briancurtin on 2006-04-26
probably none.

---

### Post by teet on 2006-04-26
[QUOTE=CurlyChris]Speaking personally, I've only ever had to ask about 3 questions since I've been a member of this forum (1 year now), cos for everything else I've always been able to search the forum and find a solution. :-D 

This makes me Very Happy! :D 

And I've been hanging around ever since, chipping in occasionally (when I think I've got something to contribute) but with no thoughts of leaving.  'Specially now, what with Dapper only weeks away......  \\:D/ 

So don't get hung up about the *Quantity* of posts per user, take pride in the *Quality* of the information on this site instead! :cool: 

Chris[/QUOTE]


I'm pretty much the same way.  I've just recently started posting although I've been a member for over a year.  I haven't HAD to post questions because I was always able to find answers by searching :)  

-teet

---

### Post by imagine on 2006-04-26
[QUOTE=openmind]But that means that the average member posts 10 times or less, given those that have posted much more than  ten times, there's a lot of members that come on, ask a question or two then leave, never to be seen again.: ([/QUOTE]
No, they come and try to search something, but can't. So they register, search and leave again.

---

### Post by ssam on 2006-04-26
which distro has the biggest forum?
linspire 431,662 registered users, 383,366 posts
gentoo 112,543 registered users, 3,222,238 posts
ubuntu 100,425 registered users, 968,269 posts
fedora  66,784 registered users,  727,064 posts
opensuse 8,283 registered users, 127,499 posts
debian 4145 registered users, 17588 posts

---

### Post by htinn on 2006-04-26
I had no idea Gentoo and OpenSuSE posters were so productive.

---

### Post by Turgon on 2006-04-26
This is great! The interesting thing is how fast it grew from 60000 and 70000 and so on. Hope this will continue!

---

### Post by ssam on 2006-04-27
seems like we are grow at about 1000 new users a day!

---

