---
title: "Idea: Making the best of spam"
date: 2008-04-09
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by ZarathustraDK on 2008-04-09
Lately I've started getting a lot of spam-mail from private individuals on my gmail. I assume these people have unknowingly had their computer/e-mail account jacked by a spammer.

*light bulb lights up*

How about this. Instead of marking the email as spam, reply to the individual saying you've received a spam-mail from them, and that they probably have got some funky stuff runnng on their computer. Suggest them to clean their system by perhaps by installing Linux. Just make a template-mail as an easy cut 'n' paste reply.

And of course remember to attach the spammail you got from them as proof of their deeds.

Yeah, it'll take a little longer than simply reporting the mail as spam, but perhaps it'll get some people to switch, you'll help fight spam, AND you wont end up having to block legitimate email-adresses of people you just might have to converse with some day.

---

### Post by kidux on 2008-04-09
That's a good idea. I do this already, well sort of. When someone sends one of those stupid chain mails, I snopes it and then reply with a link to the page, in an attempt to educate them that none of that crap works and to keep me from getting anymore of it.

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-10
It's extremely easy to spoof an email return address.  You are not solving anything by replying to these email.

---

### Post by kidux on 2008-04-10
> **AstalaVista said:**
> It's extremely easy to spoof an email return address.  You are not solving anything by replying to these email.

While that's true, you can instead of replying to the original message, send them a new message informing them their email is hacked and attach the original as proof, then they can be shown there is a problem, and you can also take the time to educate them on how to remedy the situation and hopefully keep it from happening again.

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-10
> **kidux said:**
> While that's true, you can instead of replying to the original message, send them a new message informing them their email is hacked and attach the original as proof, then they can be shown there is a problem, and you can also take the time to educate them on how to remedy the situation and hopefully keep it from happening again.

It has nothing to do with a PC being hack.  You don't have to hack anything to spoof an email address.
I could send out an email, where the backtrace will be from an address that I have no contact with whatsoever.
The current email system is inherently broken, since it's not designed to prevent such spoofing.

It's like, I send a postal letter to someone (with junk inside); but I wrote a return address on the envelope.  Except the return address is not mine; it's Joe Bystander.  So, the recipient got the junk letter, send a reply to Joe Bystander.  Joe received the letter, scratched his head.

In all this, I don't have to break into Joe's house to do this.  I don't need to know who Joe is.

---

### Post by kutjara on 2008-04-10
> **ZarathustraDK said:**
> Lately I've started getting a lot of spam-mail from private individuals on my gmail. I assume these people have unknowingly had their computer/e-mail account jacked by a spammer.

*light bulb lights up*

How about this. Instead of marking the email as spam, reply to the individual saying you've received a spam-mail from them, and that they probably have got some funky stuff runnng on their computer. Suggest them to clean their system by perhaps by installing Linux. Just make a template-mail as an easy cut 'n' paste reply.

And of course remember to attach the spammail you got from them as proof of their deeds.

Yeah, it'll take a little longer than simply reporting the mail as spam, but perhaps it'll get some people to switch, you'll help fight spam, AND you wont end up having to block legitimate email-adresses of people you just might have to converse with some day.

The kind of spam you're talking about doesn't require the user's email account to be "hacked." Over the years, spammers have been harvesting huge lists of active email addresses. Some lists are bought, some are collected using spiders to trawl forums and websites, some by compromising systems on which emails from other people are stored (thereby collecting their addresses as well), some by disgruntled employees who sell their company's contact databases, some are automatically generated by software that basically spams every combination of letters and numbers, knowing that a small percentage will "hit" (the hits will then duly join the billions of other addresses in the list and be themselves spammed forevermore). The list goes on. And on. And on.

The spammers then combine a random "To" address with a random "From" address, add their pitch for Viagra or "enhancement" or naked schoolgirls, and set the "Send" counter to one gazillion.

I've recently started receiving spam that gives one of my own email addresses in the "from" field. I know for a fact that none of my machines are "compromised" in the way you mean, yet my address is still "out there." It's an address I only use for close friends, so the only vector I can identify for its transmission to a spammer is one friend who loves to send big "insiprational" emails to everyone she knows. Some of the recipients themselves no doubt forward these emails on to people who also forward them on. My friend doesn't understand the concept of "BCC," so all recipients' email addresses are there for whoever wants them. It doesn't take many forwardings before my email address is on a huge number of machines, any one of which could be compromised.

If everyone who got spam wrote to the "originator" to advise them, all that would happen is that the volume of spam would increase exponentially. There would be no upside whatsoever, because there is basically nothing someone whose email address has been harvested can do to remedy the situation.

---

### Post by kidux on 2008-04-10
> **AstalaVista said:**
> It has nothing to do with a PC being hack.  You don't have to hack anything to spoof an email address.
I could send out an email, where the backtrace will be from an address that I have no contact with whatsoever.
The current email system is inherently broken, since it's not designed to prevent such spoofing.

It's like, I send a postal letter to someone (with junk inside); but I wrote a return address on the envelope.  Except the return address is not mine; it's Joe Bystander.  So, the recipient got the junk letter, send a reply to Joe Bystander.  Joe received the letter, scratched his head.

In all this, I don't have to break into Joe's house to do this.  I don't need to know who Joe is.

> **kutjara said:**
> The kind of spam you're talking about doesn't require the user's email account to be "hacked." Over the years, spammers have been harvesting huge lists of active email addresses. Some lists are bought, some are collected using spiders to trawl forums and websites, some by compromising systems on which emails from other people are stored (thereby collecting their addresses as well), some by disgruntled employees who sell their company's contact databases, some are automatically generated by software that basically spams every combination of letters and numbers, knowing that a small percentage will "hit" (the hits will then duly join the billions of other addresses in the list and be themselves spammed forevermore). The list goes on. And on. And on.

The spammers then combine a random "To" address with a random "From" address, add their pitch for Viagra or "enhancement" or naked schoolgirls, and set the "Send" counter to one gazillion.

I've recently started receiving spam that gives one of my own email addresses in the "from" field. I know for a fact that none of my machines are "compromised" in the way you mean, yet my address is still "out there." It's an address I only use for close friends, so the only vector I can identify for its transmission to a spammer is one friend who loves to send big "insiprational" emails to everyone she knows. Some of the recipients themselves no doubt forward these emails on to people who also forward them on. My friend doesn't understand the concept of "BCC," so all recipients' email addresses are there for whoever wants them. It doesn't take many forwardings before my email address is on a huge number of machines, any one of which could be compromised.

If everyone who got spam wrote to the "originator" to advise them, all that t would happen is that the volume of spam would increase exponentially. There would be no upside whatsoever, because there is basically nothing someone whose email address has been harvested can do to remedy the situation.

I see. You guys are right of course. Perhaps we need to design a better email system then, lol!

---

### Post by ZarathustraDK on 2008-04-10
Gah you're right of course.

---

### Post by warbread on 2008-04-10
Damn.  I totally thought this was going to be a thread full of Spam recipes.

---

### Post by toupeiro on 2008-04-10
This is a bad idea.

If you reply back, then the receiver knows that your account is indeed active and checked.  Most spam sending is automated.  All this will trigger is more spam, and more propigation of your email address to more spam bots.

---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-04-10
anybody up for desinging a new mail system?

I propose that all messages be sent BCC, regardless of the number of recipients.

---

### Post by mridkash on 2008-04-10
Encrypted email. Does it exist?

---

### Post by toupeiro on 2008-04-10
> **st0n3cutt3r said:**
> anybody up for desinging a new mail system?

I propose that all messages be sent BCC, regardless of the number of recipients.

Been doing it for years.

> Encrypted email. Does it exist?

Yes, unfortunately it also requires the receiver to have the decryption software.  I've used PGP encryption in email for a while when needed.

---

### Post by whitefort on 2008-04-10
Personally I use Spamcop.net to report every single piece of spam that hits my email accounts.

This means that in just a few mouse clicks I can report the crap, and notification is sent to the *real* source, not the spoofed address.  It notifies the relevant ISPs and website hosters, and since it carries the threat that they'll find themselves on a blacklist, a lot of them are quick to act.

I regularly get replies telling me that a spammers account has been banned as a result of my report, which is very satisfying.

Of course this is probably nothing more than a minor inconvenience to the spammers, but it makes me feel good.

I reckon that spam will only stop when stupid people stop buying spamvertised goods.

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-10
> **mridkash said:**
> Encrypted email. Does it exist?

You can encrypt your email, but you can't encrypt your email address.

---

### Post by PartisanEntity on 2008-04-10
We need to have a hand-shake system and we need to have server-side settings such as: "allow only emails from people I have hand-shaked with"

So if I want to email someone, first I need to send out a request to add the person to my list and for them to do the same, only then can I email them.

Would this work?

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2008-04-10
> **PartisanEntity said:**
> We need to have a hand-shake system and we need to have server-side settings such as: "allow only emails from people I have hand-shaked with"

So if I want to email someone, first I need to send out a request to add the person to my list and for them to do the same, only then can I email them.

Would this work?
Most of the spam I get comes from the debian-users mailing list (it's kind of awful, actually). So, the source of the e-mail is one that I voluntarily approved of, which in turn means that any further authentication of that address would not cut down on the spam. Authenticating individual users would defeat the purpose of having a public mailing list. 

PGP/GPG signatures and/or encryption is the best way to prevent spoofing, I think. Anything further than that would just cripple the functionality of e-mail without providing any real security assurances beyond what is provided by the "don't click on random links" rule.

---

### Post by Sporkman on 2008-04-10
> **kidux said:**
> When someone sends one of those stupid chain mails, I snopes it and then reply with a link to the page, in an attempt to educate them that none of that crap works and to keep me from getting anymore of it.

That doesn't work for me - I think the offender doesn't really understand that he/she has to click on the link & interpret the snope's page's content as a refutation of the forwarded BS. Whenever I respond as such, I get no response, but I continue to get forwarded BS.

---

### Post by kidux on 2008-04-10
> **Sporkman said:**
> That doesn't work for me - I think the offender doesn't really understand that he/she has to click on the link & interpret the snope's page's content as a refutation of the forwarded BS. Whenever I respond as such, I get no response, but I continue to get forwarded BS.

I have some hard headed ones, like my sister, that I have to print the snopes page and physically show them it's BS. Still, it helps more than it hinders.

---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-04-10
other than the fact that it would be a big project, is there any reason a new mail system couldn't be created?

tbh, I don't really know much about the mail system, but I'm sure that a new one could be created, and with good management, it could even replace the existing system in a few years.

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-10
> **st0n3cutt3r said:**
> other than the fact that it would be a big project, is there any reason a new mail system couldn't be created?

tbh, I don't really know much about the mail system, but I'm sure that a new one could be created, and with good management, it could even replace the existing system in a few years.

As usual, it's a case of:
1. everyone don't agree with everyone else how this should be done
2. nobody wants to foot the bill for the change
3. legacy support / backward compatibility

---

### Post by aaaantoine on 2008-04-11
My ideas on spam reduction -- (ESP = Email Service Providers; could be either an ISP or a service like Yahoo, Gmail, etc.):

A- The From address should be registered and validated with a particular ESP.
B- Only that ESP can send emails from that specific address, and only when the password for that registered address is provided.
(I mention this step in particular because as a web programmer, I found that I am able to put *any* address in the From box when programmatically sending out mail.  No wonder it's so easy to create spam.)
C- The ESP can then pinpoint the offending spammer based on reports of abuse and suspend the "send" capability of their **mail** account for an indefinite length of time.  The ESP becomes accountable for pretty much all spam.
D- Enforce this mailing method via UN law (or some other method of international enforcement).  Hold the ESPs financially responsible for ignoring spam abuse on their networks.  Fine ESPs that do not restrict address spoofing as described in point B.

As for botnet spam:
E- It is assumed that an infected computer will have email login information from the victim, and will abuse that information to send mail through that user's account.
F- As described in point C, the ESP will suspend the account.  The ESP will notify the victim via email and give them a chance to appeal.
G- Because the mail account is switched to read-only, the victim will still receive this email along with any other incoming mail.
(This obviously does not eliminate DDOS attacks, but we're discussing spam, not other botnet uses.)
H- The victim will have a chance to clean out their PC and make an appeal to get their mail sending capabilities back.  The victim *could* try to register mail accounts with different services, but they will eventually block him also when the worm starts abusing these accounts as well.

"But I was just checking my email on someone else's computer, and the damn bot changed my email account password!"
I- People will have to learn to trust only computers with proper security measures.
J- Failing that, I leave it up to the ESPs to figure out how to handle this particular scenario.

I am releasing these ideas free of license. :-P

---

### Post by whitefort on 2008-04-11
> **aaaantoine said:**
> I am releasing these ideas free of license. :-P

But, but, but... If you do that, what's to stop the spammers taking out a patent on your ideas, just to make sure they never happen?  :)

---

### Post by LeoSolaris on 2008-04-11
[quote=whitefort]But, but, but... If you do that, what's to stop the spammers taking out a patent on your ideas, just to make sure they never happen?[/quote]

Patents only last for 7 years in the US. They are Short term monopolies so companies can get started with unique goods or services before competitors are allowed to poach them and offer them cheaper.

The reason email changes will never happen is because too many major companies make too much money off of stupid people. It's a form of nearly free advertising that reaches millions of people on a daily basis. Take spam for Viagra for instance... what it does is unconsciously hype Viagra in the minds of the spam recipients, while very few actually every buy from those spams, they are more likely to ask their doctor for Viagra on their next visit, if they are feeling even a little insecure.

---

### Post by aaaantoine on 2008-04-11
> **whitefort said:**
> But, but, but... If you do that, what's to stop the spammers taking out a patent on your ideas, just to make sure they never happen?  :)

Better make it GPL, then.

---

### Post by ChrisNZ on 2008-04-13
Just a note... while looking for some solutions on this forum... In the dark old days of when I used windoz I had an excellent spam program called "Mailwasher" made by a Kiwi (NZ) guy and then sold to "Firetrust". The program was in two versions, 1 free and 1 reg for Pro.
The free version ... sometime ago used to have the ability to "bounce" email options as you selected them. If not then you could always add the spam to the blacklist. Eventually it does stop...!

Having disposable email addresses for suspect membership usage is another way. I've been using a program called "Skipper" and it seems to give me plenty of options for what I need.

Cheers Fellow Nix users..

May the force be with you:guitar:

---

