---
title: "45 07'25.31&quot; N 123 06'49.66&quot; W"
date: 2007-06-19
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Kimm on 2007-06-19
I bet most of you have already seen this.

But check out these coordinates in Google Earth! ;)

45 07'25.31" N 123 06'49.66" W

---

### Post by DeadSuperHero on 2007-06-19
Dude!
Oh my god, that's amazing!
Firefox FTW!

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2007-06-19
Awesome, thats like 30 minutes from my house.  I should go see if its still there.

:EDIT:

Also, if you don't have google earth, you can find that in google maps also.  Just make sure you do satellite mode

---

### Post by Sammi on 2007-06-19
Took two screenshots for you lazy people :popcorn:

---

### Post by Atomic Dog on 2007-06-19
Thanks for posting the pics.  That's freakin' awesome!

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2007-06-19
Awesome, but I was not lazy until you posted them!

---

### Post by Tundro Walker on 2007-06-19
It looks like someone super-imposed the firefox logo onto the satellite image, not someone cutting their field to look like the firefox logo.  But, either way, it's still cool.  If it's super-imposed, it means someone at Google has a great sense of humor and supports Firefox.  If it really is someone's "crop-circled" field, it's hilarious advertisment for Firefox.  Awesome!

---

### Post by Biochem on 2007-06-19
> **Tundro Walker said:**
> It looks like someone super-imposed the firefox logo onto the satellite image, not someone cutting their field to look like the firefox logo.  But, either way, it's still cool.  If it's super-imposed, it means someone at Google has a great sense of humor and supports Firefox.  If it really is someone's "crop-circled" field, it's hilarious advertisment for Firefox.  Awesome!

Have you noticed that the picture wasn't taken at the same time of the day as the surrounding (look at the shades) and there is a plane with a group of people nearby. Sound a little too much for just super-imposing. But to produce this you must be able to control the satelite. :shock:

---

