---
title: "8.10 craze"
date: 2008-10-27
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-10-27
So, I've been advising people, just like people have advised me, not to upgrade til about a month after the new release is released.
This has been like this since I began using Ubuntu. Btw, that's quite a while before I became a member of the forums.
Why not wait another month, as plenty of people are trying the beta releases anyway, and release it when it's at its "smoothest"?
Playing advocate for the devil ( people who don't know anything about Linux in general & Ubuntu in particular and are scared away by "simple" things, Like music & video issues, Flash issues, Terminology, Hardware issues (Graphic Cards that can handle 3D acceleration,etc. etc. etc.)
Thank you all.

---

### Post by Jim! on 2008-10-27
I will be updating immediately. (Though It will probably take a few hours since I'm over my download limit, Australian ISP's...) I have been using the beta release for quite some time now and see no reason not to upgrade - It's stable as it is, runs faster and has the most up-to-date software/packages.

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-10-27
> I will be updating immediately. (Though It will probably take a few hours since I'm over my download limit, Australian ISP's...) I have been using the beta release for quite some time now and see no reason not to upgrade - It's stable as it is, runs faster and has the most up-to-date software/packages.
Fair enough.

---

### Post by damis648 on 2008-10-27
I agree: very stable. Be upgrading right away, but with a fresh install, not an upgrade. Goes alot cleaner this way.

---

### Post by scragar on 2008-10-27
Me to, I'm installing a dual boot, Ibex/Hardy tonight(was going to do it last night but I got distracted and wound up sleeping on my keyboard :p), so I can try it out, I think I'm going to be using ibex pretty non-stop, I loved it in a Vbox, and it was far more stable than I expected for an RC, give the beta wouldn't boot :p

Just a shame there's nothing massive pushing this update, that'll be a big turn off for lots of people.

---

### Post by kernelhaxor on 2008-10-27
I will update immediately.

The whole point of a BETA is to squish all the showstopper bugs.  By the release time most important bugs would be all fixed.  I know there might exist small issues here and there in the release version too but I dont mind them and in fact, when I find anything, reporting them is the least bit I can contribute to Ubuntu.
If one is an absolute newbie / perfectionist, then sure, wait a month after the release for 8.10.1 or something.  I dont think m either, so I'll jus go for it.

---

### Post by Jim! on 2008-10-27
> **scragar said:**
> Just a shame there's nothing massive pushing this update, that'll be a big turn off for lots of people.

It is a shame because It's going to be an excellent release, I'm sure a large number of poeple will end up migrating to it over the next few months though...

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-10-27
> It is a shame because It's going to be an excellent release, I'm sure a large number of poeple will end up migrating to it over the next few months though...
Knocking on wood for that.

---

### Post by BigSilly on 2008-10-27
Usually, I'll upgrade immediately. I've done that with a few Ubuntu's so far, and it's always been good from the start. Hardy was a bit different, and seemed to take a while to hit it's stride, but it's great now. 

I'm not sure with Ibex. I'm really happy with Hardy at the moment, but I think I'll wait on to see the general consensus on it before I decide whether or not to upgrade. I'd planned on staying put with Hardy for a while, even started a thread here to discuss how to keep it bug free long term, but as Ibex approaches I may be tempted. I'm hearing of a few bugs, such as a joypad problem (which would be a real issue for me), so I'll have to wait and see what you guys think. If I do upgrade, I doubt I'll wait a month though! :biggrin:

---

### Post by lswest on 2008-10-27
i ticked the first two options since it's personal preference whether you're willing to fix a few problems or not.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2008-10-27
KDE 4.1 is probably what's pulling me to upgrade, switching from Gnome, no less.

Only at home, though. Work is staying on the LTS release till the next LTS release.

---

### Post by t0p on 2008-10-27
I voted that I'll be sticking with what I've got, because I'm running Hardy on my desktop, it's a long term support release, and it's taken me ages to get everything just so.

However, I'll switch to Intrepid on my eeepc.  I won't switch right away though - I'll wait for an updated Niceee or RiceeeyTweak script to be released (on [eeeuser.com]("http://wiki.eeeuser.com/getting_ubuntu_8.04_to_work_perfectly?s=ubuntu%20eee%20riceeey")) These scripts automate the task of tweaking ubuntu for the eeepc hardware.  And if Intrepid is anything like hardy, it will need a fair amount of tweaking.

---

### Post by Eisenwinter on 2008-10-27
> **BigSilly said:**
> Usually, I'll upgrade immediately. I've done that with a few Ubuntu's so far, and it's always been good from the start. Hardy was a bit different, and seemed to take a while to hit it's stride, but it's great now.
That was the case for me also, when I first installed Hardy, I actually later moved back down to Feisty, because I encountered some problems, most of them with packages like Xmms.

I later moved back to Hardy, and eventually tweaked it exactly the way I wanted, it's really comfortable now, I got almost everything I need (except a proper driver for Radeon 9200, but that's a different story :P).

So I'm still not sure whether I'll upgrade immediately, or just stick around with Hardy.

On the one hand, I'm excited about Interpid Ibex, and it's always fun to try new releases, but on the other hand, I made Hardy my home pretty much, it'll be hard to leave it :P

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-10-27
I can't partake.

Been using 8.10 for a while now.

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2008-10-27
I upgraded as soon as I could. I keep all my important files backed up. The more people who use the new releases, the faster the bugs will be worked out of them.

---

### Post by Mazza558 on 2008-10-27
I've been on Ibex since Alpha 5 or so, and have only had one problem with it, but that was fixed in an update the next day.

---

### Post by jespdj on 2008-10-27
I am certainly not going to update immediately.

As I said in "[Anybody else not terribly excited for 8.10?](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=958770)", I'm not terribly impressed by 8.10 at the moment. I haven't discovered any new feature yet that makes me want to install it immediately.

I'm sticking with 8.04, which runs very well on my laptop. I'll download 8.10 and see how it runs when it's out, but I'm not going to upgrade anytime soon.

---

### Post by Chame_Wizard on 2008-10-27
wait within a month to insalll(with new HDD):guitar:

---

### Post by mirhciulica on 2008-10-27
I'm using it since beta and I have just one problem, with skype. Webcam doesn't work :confused: It runs smoother than Hardy, and is much stable! :guitar:
So, I wont stick to RC:biggrin: and I'll update immediately.

---

### Post by NetworkGuy on 2008-10-27
Not upgrading anytime soon.   I like what I have and need it to completely work from the get-go.

People that live on the cutting edge sometimes get cut by their own sword.

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2008-10-27
Already have both Intrepid Ubuntu and Kubuntu. Would only recommend that people upgrade to Intrepid if they don't mind reporting problems and are not relying on just on Intrepid and they have another day to day operating system such as Hardy.  After all the more people who try Intrepid before its officially released the more stable and bug free its likely to be.

---

### Post by lukjad on 2008-10-27
I want to upgrade, just to see how it is. Right now I have Ubuntu Studio 8.04 and am having some problems with video playback. I will test this new version and stick with it if I like it.

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-10-27
> I want to upgrade, just to see how it is. Right now I have Ubuntu Studio 8.04 and am having some problems with video playback. I will test this new version and stick with it if I like it.
Totally agree there, not for myself, but fer me mom, who can't play vcd's........

---

### Post by lukjad on 2008-10-27
Yeah. Well, that's what puppy's for. :D

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-10-27
> Yeah. Well, that's what puppy's for. 
Spank you very much:lolflag:
Voulez vous ubuntu avec moi ce soir?
EDIT: That can't be against the rules! I'm quoting a song. Just left out saleeping:)

---

### Post by lukjad on 2008-10-27
Je deteste cette chanson.

---

### Post by klange on 2008-10-27
Honestly, I've been on Intrepid since Alpha 2 and there's really not all that much to brag about. Yeah, tabbed Nautilus is great and NM 0.7 is pretty cool, but let's face it: The real thrills will come in 9.04 with all the amazing updates to X and the kernel-side graphics memory management that's already been committed. DRI2 on Intel - fixing composited graphics issue #1 on FOSS drivers: OpenGL not rendering properly. MPX is there as well, and we'll have tools to deal with it. OOo3 will be included in the first release, and Thunderbird 3 may be in the repos. Mono 2 as well.

tl;dr: 9.04 is the release to jump on.

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-10-27
> Je deteste cette chanson.
Merci bien. Me too
> Honestly, I've been on Intrepid since Alpha 2 and there's really not all that much to brag about. Yeah, tabbed Nautilus is great and NM 0.7 is pretty cool, but let's face it: **The real thrills will come in 9.04** with all the amazing updates to X and the kernel-side graphics memory management that's already been committed. DRI2 on Intel - fixing composited graphics issue #1 on FOSS drivers: OpenGL not rendering properly. MPX is there as well, and we'll have tools to deal with it. OOo3 will be included in the first release, and Thunderbird 3 may be in the repos. Mono 2 as well.

From your fingers to the gods of linux...

---

### Post by lukjad on 2008-10-27
Vous n'avez aucune inteligence eternalnewbee.

EDIT:
Juste un blague. 
All in good fun.

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-10-27
Sorry for my strong reaction lukjad007....

---

### Post by lukjad on 2008-10-27
I edited my post. I was just making a joke. A rather bad one it seems. I am afraid I rely too much on my facial expressions when I type and forget that people can't see them.

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-10-27
Edited mine as well...
No hard feelings;-)

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-10-28
OK, ladies & gentlemen.
I'm going to upgrade right away, against my own advice, although I still recommend newcomers to wait the month or so, till the dust settles. Safety first.

---

### Post by alwez_loner_TZ on 2008-10-28
I know the temptation of Upgrading.. I very big... I'm going to upgrade my PC to Ibex on Sunday...

I just had to wait till the final version was out first...

---

### Post by scragar on 2008-10-28
OK, I upgraded a seperate partition, and within 20 mins screwed up my graphics, so it's fun already :p

---

### Post by hellion0 on 2008-10-28
My machine runs well enough on Hardy that I won't upgrade to Intrepid right away. Chances are, I won't upgrade til 9.04 or 9.10.

---

