---
title: "H.264 Transcoding"
date: 2022-10-17
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Shibblet on 2022-10-17
I have been using Handbrake for quite some time now. I usually do my HD 1080p H.264 (compatibility) encodes with the CQ set at 24, The Profile set to High 4.0, and the encoder set to "Very Slow."

A friend of mine told me to try the setting "Very Fast" instead. So the last few encodes I made, I ran them through both settings.

"Very Slow" produces fantastic results, but takes my computer quite some time to encode 1080p
"Very Fast" produces fantastic results as well, but takes my computer 1/4 the amount of time, and often has a smaller file.

I am curious. Ultrafast, SuperFast always produce lesser quality results with much larger files.
Fast - Slow seem to work on the same curve as the rest... i.e. Faster the encode, the larger the file at the same quality settings.
But "Very Fast" seems to be "outside the curve," denoted in this article:  [URL="https://mattgadient.com/handbrake-rf-slower-speeds-craziness/"]https://mattgadient.com/handbrake-rf-slower-speeds-craziness/
[/URL]

Unfortunately, the article doesn't explain why... and I cannot see much of a difference in quality, but it saves SO much time.

I am curious as to why this is?

BTW, I asked this on the Handbrake forums, and was told to upload my logs... I don't know what this has to do with any logs, as it's a known thing.  Since it's more of an h.264 issue, and not directly "Handbrake," I decided to ask here...

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-10-17
A CQ of 24 is quite low.  Try 19 or 19.5 with veryfast.  Using a lower CQ doesn't seem to help.

I think 20 is the default.

They want to see the logs to see **all** the settings, as there are many, many, settings and the interaction between them matters.
If you watch action with explosions and fireballs, then a 24 setting will result in artifacts.  Lower numbers are better, assuming the other settings remain the same.  In theory, 0 will result in the same size/quality file as the input.  That's a bunch of work for no reason.

The type of input matters.  Especially the resolution.  h.264 is best at 600-720p resolutions.  Below that and divx is better. Above that and h.265 is better. I don't know why.  My nerdiness doesn't care, I just want the best results, in the smallest file size, that doesn't take 2-3x live playback speed to achieve.  The math involved doesn't interest me though I do keep resolutions divisible by 4 for both vertical and horizontal resolutions.  Something about that seems to make for fast, good, transcodes. Must be in the math.

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2022-10-17
> **TheFu said:**
> A CQ of 24 is quite low.  Try 19 or 19.5 with veryfast.  Using a lower CQ doesn't seem to help.

I think 20 is the default.

20 makes the file sizes too large for me, on all settings.  ***But why does "VeryFast" work so differently than all the rest?***

> **TheFu said:**
> They want to see the logs to see **all** the settings, as there are many, many, settings and the interaction between them matters.
If you watch action with explosions and fireballs, then a 24 setting will result in artifacts.  Lower numbers are better, assuming the other settings remain the same.  In theory, 0 will result in the same size/quality file as the input.  That's a bunch of work for no reason.
0 will actually make a larger file than the original, in most cases...
I haven't seen many artifacts with 24, but I do all of my encoding at VerySlow.

> **TheFu said:**
> The type of input matters.  Especially the resolution.  h.264 is best at 600-720p resolutions.  Below that and divx is better. Above that and h.265 is better. I don't know why.  My nerdiness doesn't care, I just want the best results, in the smallest file size, that doesn't take 2-3x live playback speed to achieve.  The math involved doesn't interest me though I do keep resolutions divisible by 4 for both vertical and horizontal resolutions.  Something about that seems to make for fast, good, transcodes. Must be in the math.
I don't use h.265 due to compatibility issues with certain devices.  Plus, the "slower" the encode with h.265, the "larger" the file.  Makes it hard to find a happy medium.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-10-17
The version of handbrake that I have doesn't have the ffmpeg-inspired presets.  Just looked, I'm using v1.1.0 of handbrake on my 18.04 workstation.  Looks like moving to 20.04 will get me v1.3.1.  Could be worth installing on another workstation with a little faster CPU and better GPU (not high-end or even medium-level GPU, just better).

A few years ago, I tested a sample input file, keeping track of output file size and time to encode and quality from the 
    ultrafast
    superfast
    veryfast
    faster
    fast
    medium – default preset
    slow
    slower
    veryslow 
presets.  At the time, they said that using anything lower than "medium" was a waste of time, so I didn't test slow* at all.
My purpose was not to archive the video, just to get it converted to h.264 as quickly as possible with minimal artifacts. I'm not sensitive to file size for those, since they will be deleted in a few days anyway.  When I want archived videos, I use handbrake with custom settings that I've been using at least 5 yrs after weeks of testing.

Later tonight I'll have a 1 hour recording that would be good for testing.  It has a little action, but is mostly talking.  I'll time the encoding and try each ffmpeg preset, including the *slow* ones.  This will have the commercials in the recorded video - those make most videos 30-40% larger than when they are removed, IME.  To be clear, I'll be testing with ffmpeg, not handbrake.  I scale all resolutions over 720p down to 720p to save file size.  I'm still amazed at DVD (US is 480p) quality, so 720 is very nice. That tiny big of extra clarity at 1080 isn't worth the file size to me 98% of the time.

But we all have different needs.  I find handbrake too much trouble for watch-once video stuff.

I just installed handbrake on the 20.04 system. For h.264, seems their default CQ is 22, not 20 like I posted above.  I moved it to 19.5 - no artifacts, period, is my target. I also forced constant framerate.
In the extra settings (video tab), I have these: 
```
level=4.0:ref=1:8x8dct=0:weightp=1:subme=2:mixed-refs=0:trellis=0:vbv-bufsize=25000:vbv-maxrate=20000:rclookahead=10
```
Don't recall where I found them.

I have a 90 minute recording at 1280:720   59.94fps.  The input is h.264 real-time using a hardware device.  Running it through handbrake  converted it from 6.0GB (6249876) to 1.2GB (1256236).  I also removed some black bars at the top/bottom, so the resulting resolution is 1280:676 and added a vorbis audio track to go along with the AAC audio from the recording.  mkvinfo output:
```
| + Duration: 5470.699s (01:31:10.699)
|  + Track number: 1 (track ID for mkvmerge & mkvextract: 0)
|  + Codec ID: V_MPEG4/ISO/AVC
|  + CodecPrivate, length 43 (h.264 profile: Main @L4.0)
|  + Track number: 2 (track ID for mkvmerge & mkvextract: 1)
|  + Codec ID: A_AAC
|   + Channels: 2
|  + CodecPrivate, length 2
|  + Track number: 3 (track ID for mkvmerge & mkvextract: 2)
|  + Codec ID: A_VORBIS
|   + Channels: 2
|  + CodecPrivate, length 4367

```

Most of my playback devices cannot handle h.265, so I completely understand using h.264 for anything 600+ resolution.  But for home movies taken with lower resoluions (352 x 576/480 carvas),  divx or xvid are much more efficient choices.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-10-18
So, the transcoding ran overnight on that 1 hour TV recording.
Sorted by file size:  
```

Size   Clock Time  Output File
------+-----------+----------------------------------------------
3.47G  recording   The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-long-mpg.mkv
3.17G  6m48.929s   The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-long-ultrafast.mkv
1.82G  **7m05.973s**   The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-long-sf.mkv
1.46G  12m58.580s  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-long-fast.mkv
1.38G  14m41.375s  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-long-medium.mkv
1.35G  **10m55.853s**  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-long-faster.mkv
1.34G  35m4.545s   The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-long-slower.mkv
1.32G  **20m12.665s**  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-long-slow.mkv
1.23G  69m20.217s  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-long-veryslow.mkv

```
The sorted order is correct for bytes, not just GB sort.
It is pretty clear why I use "superfast" for 1-time viewing of a file.  The size drops, while still finishing really fast.
"faster" and "slow" appears to be other reasonable choices based on size and time-to-transcode needs.  These were all encoded at CQ of 19.5 with commercials. No artifacts seen. There's a scene with electrical sparks that was an easy way to look for artifacts. The recorded video was all 1280x720 @ 59.94 fps.

I need to strip the commercials and see the final sizes. I'll use LosslessCut for that with comskip EDL as the initial commercial break estimate.  Commercials use a bunch of storage because they need more key frames from all the scene changes.

Commercials removed:
```

Size    Output File
-------+-----------------------------------------
781624  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-veryslow.mkv
836972  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-slow.mkv
855376  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-slower.mkv
857200  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-faster.mkv
882584  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-medium.mkv
940560  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-fast.mkv
1209120 The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-sf.mkv
2038628 The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-ultrafast.mkv
```

Anyway, that should be plenty of data for decisions.

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2022-10-19
> **TheFu said:**
> 
```

Size    Output File
-------+-----------------------------------------
781624  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-veryslow.mkv
836972  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-slow.mkv
855376  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-slower.mkv
857200  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-faster.mkv
882584  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-medium.mkv
940560  The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-fast.mkv
1209120 The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-sf.mkv
2038628 The_Cleaning_Lady-The_Brit-ultrafast.mkv
```

Anyway, that should be plenty of data for decisions.

Where's "VeryFast?"  ;-)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-10-19
> **Shibblet said:**
> Where's "VeryFast?"  ;-)

I don't know.  Hummmm.

In my prior testing, it wasn't as good as superfast.  While veryfast is in the comments for each script, I didn't run it this time. Further, all the videos in this effort are gone, including the source, so I can't just run it.  Sorry.

But you'll want to run your own tests with your own inputs anyway. We all have different needs. 

I've switched to using "faster" as my default setting based on these tests.

---

