---
title: ".mp3s and .oggs for free... Where?"
date: 2006-06-05
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by gr0kzer0 on 2006-06-05
Since I got my internet connection going, I've been on the hunt for music.  I've found a good selection of mp3s and oggs... but I want more! (MORE MORE MORE!!!).  And, tight-fisted beast that I am, I don't want to pay!

Now, I know some of the google tricks for finding music files (intitle:index.of mp3 and all that kinda stuff) but for some reason I don't seem able to turn up all that much.  My musical tastes are kinda punky/alternative - I've been getting into Good Charlotte, Greenday, Red Hot Chilli Peppers just lately.

What I'm hoping is that some of you good folks could point me in the right direction for some sites that offer free downloads in .mp3 or .ogg format, so I can try and satisfy my insatiable hunger for music.  So what do yall say?  Can someone help me?  Pretty please?  I'll be yer best friend etc...

---

### Post by tom56 on 2006-06-05
This is gonna get locked for sure...

---

### Post by frodon on 2006-06-05
Link to illegal activities are not allowed in this forum and will be removed, so you will not find any informations about illegal activities in this forum.
If you mean by free "no copyrighted" there's no problem.

---

### Post by Brunellus on 2006-06-05
Go indie.  A lot of independent acts release unrestricted mp3s (not aware of many ogg vorbis ones).

I have an immense collection of oggs, but they're all ripped from my immense CD collection.

---

### Post by Brunellus on 2006-06-05
[QUOTE=kegie][http://www.archive.org/]("http://www.archive.org/") has a lot of music (mostly live shows) available for free. There is some really good stuff there, can be tricky to find though. Oh, and they have some non-copyrighted movies as well.[/QUOTE]
archive.org is an excellent resource.  Note, however, that most of the live shows are not in .ogg or .mp3, but rather in more esoteric lossless formats, like SHN and FLAC.  There are some truly amazing performances on there.

---

### Post by kegie on 2006-06-05
Oh, another tip: You can get a plugin for [last.fm]("http://last.fm") for your music player - get an account there and seed it with what you like for a while, and then you'll just be able to use the last.fm radio player to listen to your neighbour radio for similar music.

I don't think the player is in the repositories yet, but it's available from their homepage, and there's a thing called lastfmproxy which makes it possible to listen through your regular player.

---

