---
title: "What do you suggest as a nautilus replacer?"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by legolas_w on 2008-04-26
Hi, 
I saw some posts that was about nautilus and PCMan File Manager.
It made me ask about other file managers that can be used instead of nautilus.
for sure I am talking about a good and decent one like Konqueror or something with good integration with Gnome.

If you know all file manages, please add a poll to this thread or let me know  the names and I will add the poll.

Thank you.

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2008-04-26
Thunar (GTK, and light)
mc (full featured, more powerful and faster than any other)

---

### Post by tamoneya on 2008-04-26
only the original poster is able to add a poll to a thread.  I am not an expert in file explorers since I am fairly satisfied with nautilus.  I have heard many good things about thunar.  It is very light weight and integrates fairly nicely with gnome.

---

### Post by Mazza558 on 2008-04-26
Thunar is very nice.

---

### Post by Changturkey on 2008-04-26
Pcmanfm?

---

### Post by gn2 on 2008-04-26
Thunar gets my vote.

---

### Post by chris4585 on 2008-04-26
one of my favorites is **rox-filer**, it takes some getting use to though, probably not what you're looking for, there's also **emelfm2**

emelFM2 is a file manager that implements the popular two-pane
design. It features a simple GTK+2 interface, a flexible file
typing scheme, and a built-in command line for executing commands
without opening an xterm.

---

### Post by cardinals_fan on 2008-04-26
+1 for Thunar

Midnight Commander just for nostalgia.

---

### Post by D-EJ915 on 2008-04-28
Thunar is great, so is PCManFM, but I like thunar better because it shows me what dimension images are when I click on them.

---

### Post by Mateo on 2008-04-28
I don't like the way Thunar handles the desktop.

---

### Post by D-EJ915 on 2008-04-28
> **Mateo said:**
> I don't like the way Thunar handles the desktop.
I didn't know it did a desktop?

---

### Post by chris4585 on 2008-04-29
> **D-EJ915 said:**
> I didn't know it did a desktop?

Yep, look in preferences, xfce4's desktop icons are generated by Thunar

---

### Post by aidanr on 2008-04-29
> **chris4585 said:**
> Yep, look in preferences, xfce4's desktop icons are generated by Thunar

Nope, xfdesktop does that.
+1 for Thunar.

---

### Post by Quillz on 2008-04-29
I've actually never used any file manager other than Konqueror on KDE and Nautilus on GNOME. What makes Thunar better/worse than Nautilus?

---

### Post by gn2 on 2008-04-29
> **Quillz said:**
> What makes Thunar better/worse than Nautilus?

Faster.

---

### Post by BluntBox on 2008-04-29
+1 for Thunar, I don't like desktop icons so that really is a non issue for me.

---

### Post by frankos44 on 2008-04-29
Don't be too quick to dismiss Nautilus. It integrates well with gnome desktop and links to other Ubuntu desktops and servers via port 22 locally or remotely seamlessly.

---

### Post by oedipuss on 2008-04-29
So no filemanager using clutter yet ? 
Or something else, as long as it's blingy ..

---

### Post by imronak on 2008-04-29
i use nautaulius mainly bcos of the scripts, essentially, "Terminal here".
Can these be used with thumar or mc? I would like to test those and is ther any option to open the folder with sudo in the other filemans, bcos nautilius doesnt have it :(

---

### Post by akiratheoni on 2008-04-29
> **frankos44 said:**
> Don't be too quick to dismiss Nautilus. It integrates well with gnome desktop and links to other Ubuntu desktops and servers via port 22 locally or remotely seamlessly.

That's the only upside of Nautilus for me... the fact that it can connect to my webserver remotely. As far as I know, Thunar can't do that :( Other than that Thunar all the way.

---

### Post by chris4585 on 2008-04-30
> **aidanr said:**
> Nope, xfdesktop does that.
+1 for Thunar.

thanks for correcting me

---

### Post by chucky chuckaluck on 2008-04-30
> **imronak said:**
> i use nautaulius mainly bcos of the scripts, essentially, "Terminal here".
Can these be used with thumar or mc? I would like to test those and is ther any option to open the folder with sudo in the other filemans, bcos nautilius doesnt have it :(

thunar has 'custom actions' which you can write yourself. i've had *open terminal, browse as root, root edit, feh wallpaper* and all were easy to do. aysiu has a script on his psychocats site that will make thunar the default FS of gnome instead of nautilus (and another script to make nautilus the default, once again).

---

### Post by heiowge on 2008-04-30
While I can get by with nautilus, I actually liked the windows explorer file manager that XP used.

Are there any file managers for Ubuntu that work the same way?  I looked at PCManFM and it didn't seem to offer the explorer-style tree in the left panel.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-04-30
> **heiowge said:**
> While I can get by with nautilus, I actually liked the windows explorer file manager that XP used.

Are there any file managers for Ubuntu that work the same way?  I looked at PCManFM and it didn't seem to offer the explorer-style tree in the left panel.

Any ideas?

err, [thunar](http://thunar.xfce.org/images/filewindow-6.png)? :p

---

### Post by Wobedraggled on 2008-04-30
Thunar Thunar Thunar cats go....

---

