---
title: "U.S. Federal Gov't pursues &quot;Cloud First&quot; IT strategy"
date: 2010-12-06
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Sporkman on 2010-12-06
> **Federal government moves forward with 'cloud-first' plan for new technology**
	
By Marjorie Censer
Capital Business Staff Writer
Sunday, December 5, 2010; 8:29 PM

The General Services Administration's decision last week to move its e-mail program to a Web-based system modeled on Google's popular Gmail program is part of a major government drive to increase federal use of cloud computing.

The GSA is the first federal agency to make the Internet switch, and its decision follows the Office of Management and Budget's declaration last month that the government is now operating under a "cloud-first" policy, meaning agencies must give priority to Web-based applications and services...

[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/05/AR2010120503320.html](http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/05/AR2010120503320.html)

---

### Post by red_Marvin on 2010-12-06
Moving government functions to a platform that will not be accessible when the network communications are down cannot be described as anything other than stupid.

---

### Post by bug67 on 2010-12-06
> **red_Marvin said:**
> Moving government functions to a platform that will not be accessible when the network communications are down **cannot be described as anything other than stupid.**

Considder what organizations we're talking about here.

---

### Post by eriktheblu on 2010-12-06
> **red_Marvin said:**
> Moving government functions to a platform that will not be accessible when the network communications are down cannot be described as anything other than stupid.

So you're suggesting that I access my email using Outlook when the network is down?

---

### Post by Paqman on 2010-12-06
> **red_Marvin said:**
> Moving government functions to a platform that will not be accessible when the network communications are down cannot be described as anything other than stupid.

You mean, if the entire internet went down? Personally i'd think the bigger problem would be any event that could actually do that.

---

### Post by mips on 2010-12-06
> **eriktheblu said:**
> So you're suggesting that I access my email using Outlook when the network is down?

Yes, for all your stored emails & attachements. Pretty handy if you can access the info even though not connected to the net.

---

### Post by Lucradia on 2010-12-06
> **Paqman said:**
> You mean, if the **entire** internet went down? Personally i'd think the bigger problem would be any event that could actually do that.

That's not what netsplits would allow. (Netsplits aren't limited to IRC. Ubuntu Forums has had them too, and so has at least one MMORPG I've played, a commercial one even.)

If even a portion of the Internet is down, someone on California's coast in the government, would not be able to access cloud features on the east coast, but still be able to play an MMORPG that has a server in California.

---

### Post by pricetech on 2010-12-06
Not surprised.  Such decisions are usually made by people who simply aren't qualified to make them, nor savvy enough to recognize their ignorance.

---

### Post by red_Marvin on 2010-12-06
> **eriktheblu said:**
> So you're suggesting that I access my email using Outlook when the network is down?
As mips said, yes. Government is also much more than mail.

---

### Post by madjr on 2010-12-06
as long as is not hotmail or facebook mail..

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2010-12-06
Who needs Wikileaks any more, once this gets up and running?

regards.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2010-12-06
I checked out the General Services Administration's website ([http://www.gsa.gov/portal/category/100000](http://www.gsa.gov/portal/category/100000)). There is no story here other than their use of a "a Web-based system **modeled** on Google's popular Gmail program". No secrets hidden there. It is time to move on.
:lolflag:

---

