---
title: "11.04 needs a native Dock."
date: 2010-08-28
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Cam! on 2010-08-28
I just realized that a majority of Ubuntu users often ditch the bottom panel for something like Docky or AWN. This is making me wonder: Why can't Canonical find a way to incorporate a dock-like App manager, without blatantly copying Mac OS X? Microsoft nailed down a good, semi-related thing with W7's superbar.

Perhaps there could be a semi-circle at the bottom of the screen, or something?

---

### Post by TyrantWave on 2010-08-28
No. Just no.

---

### Post by Cam! on 2010-08-28
Please tell me why.

---

### Post by mamamia88 on 2010-08-28
I don't think it does i've never cared for docks.  install one if you wish

---

### Post by Finalfantasykid on 2010-08-28
The Mac OSX style dock takes up way too much space IMO.  While it looks nice with it's cool 3d effect and animations, it is not practical.  I have installed AWN many times thinking I might actually find it usefull, but everytime I have found myself deleting it about an hour later because it is pretty pointless.

---

### Post by Jesus_Valdez on 2010-08-28
I use AWN only like a launcher for folders and favorite programs, its on autohide so It's not on my way.

---

### Post by Dayofswords on 2010-08-28
I, for one, dont use a dock. and doubt a majority does, a good number perhaps
> The Mac OSX style dock takes up way too much space IMO
with widescreen so common now, vertical space is limited

---

### Post by wewantutopia on 2010-08-28
no dock for me either!  thank you.

---

### Post by TriBlox6432 on 2010-08-28
Yeah, but what's it matter?  Are you worried about not seeing the bottom part of your wallpaper?  Don't docks automatically hide behind open windows?

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2010-08-28
No it doesn't. There are already plenty of docks out there for dock lovers. Personally, I don't like them.
> **Cam! said:**
> I just realized that a majority of Ubuntu users often ditch the bottom panel for something like Docky or AWN.
I really would like to see some numbers on that.

---

### Post by andymorton on 2010-08-28
I've got to say no as well. Like others, I've tried AWN etc but have always deleted them soon after installation. They are there to download for people who want them but I definitely don't think on should be there by default. 
They take up too much space and whilst they make look nice, I don't think docks are anywhere near is practical as the normal panel.

andy:)

---

### Post by Cam! on 2010-08-28
Fair enough. I think then there should be an option allowing the bottom Panel to only display the icons for apps, then.

---

### Post by Dobbie03 on 2010-08-28
When I was new to Ubuntu I never used to like the docks.  But since instally Docky I havent used a bottom panel in ages.  I wouldn't complain if there was a natice dock included in 11.04.

---

### Post by M7S on 2010-08-28
Well, the netbook edition will have unity, which pretty much is a vertical dock and gnome shell will modernise the window management in gnome so perhaps canonical shouldn't add a dock before seeing how that turns out?

Not that I would mind if they decided to include DockbarX in 11.04 ;)

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2010-08-28
> **Cam! said:**
> I just realized that a majority of Ubuntu users often ditch the bottom panel for something like Docky or AWN.

Did you survey a majority of Ubuntu users?

---

### Post by donkyhotay on 2010-08-28
> **tgm4883 said:**
> Did you survey a majority of Ubuntu users?

I'd have said no to the dock in such a survey. The dock is one of my biggest issues with osX and win7. Sure it's sort of convenient but it takes up valuable space on either the taskbar or the bottom of the screen and sometimes interferes when I want a new instance (rather then just bringing it up). With ubuntu I put my most commonly used applications (firefox, thunderbird, nautilus) as shortcuts on the menu bar up at the top. I have just as easy access to the programs I'd want in a dock without having an actual dock interfering with my taskbar.

> **M7S said:**
> Well, the netbook edition will have unity, which pretty much is a vertical dock and gnome shell will modernise the window management in gnome so perhaps canonical shouldn't add a dock before seeing how that turns out?

I use ubuntu netbook edition and have no problem with the vertical dock there. It makes sense as it really helps to provide as much workspace as possible on such a small screen without shrinking everything too tiny. I wouldn't want to use it on something with a decent screensize however.

---

### Post by Dayofswords on 2010-08-28
> **tgm4883 said:**
> Did you survey a majority of Ubuntu users?(by vote)
rank    name                      .    inst ...    vote..  old
2090  docky                          11876     3387  6931  
1707  avant-window-navigator         95202  6151 88389
```

#<name> is the package name;
#<inst> is the number of people who installed this package;
#<vote> is the number of people who use this package regularly;
#<old> is the number of people who installed, but don't use this package
#        regularly;
```

ClamAV is more popular (1067  clamav-base                    187426 22284 158226 )
and VLC (743   vlc                            724129 64938 642095)
source: [http://popcon.ubuntu.com/by_vote](http://popcon.ubuntu.com/by_vote)

---

### Post by MadCookie on 2010-08-28
Docks tends to work poorly when a graphics driver is not installed. Unless you have the graphics driver right out of the box, you're experience with Ubuntu + dock will in many cases feel bad.

If you want a dock, install it yourself or find another distro using a dock by default :P

---

### Post by Duncan J Murray on 2010-08-28
No!

I well and truly don't get them - they are such a waste of space!

And auto-hide doesn't count - I think that loses part of the functionality, not to mention it annoyingly popping up when you don't want it to.

Maybe I should give them another try just to make sure...

Duncan.

---

### Post by Dustin2128 on 2010-08-28
I've had docks before, I just don't like them. Maybe have a native program, but have it as a preference during installation.

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2010-08-28
> **Dayofswords said:**
> (by vote)
rank    name                      .    inst ...    vote..  old
2090  docky                          11876     3387  6931  
1707  avant-window-navigator         95202  6151 88389
```

#<name> is the package name;
#<inst> is the number of people who installed this package;
#<vote> is the number of people who use this package regularly;
#<old> is the number of people who installed, but don't use this package
#        regularly;
```

ClamAV is more popular (1067  clamav-base                    187426 22284 158226 )
and VLC (743   vlc                            724129 64938 642095)
source: [http://popcon.ubuntu.com/by_vote](http://popcon.ubuntu.com/by_vote)

Even if we combine both of those docks together, the people that actually use them is less that 1%. Which is far less than a majority.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2010-08-28
> **Cam! said:**
> I just realized that a majority of Ubuntu users often ditch the bottom panel for something like Docky or AWN.

How did you come to the conclusion that "**a majority** of Ubuntu users often ditch the bottom panel for something like Docky or AWN"? 

I tried some docks and decided I didn't like them.

Please stop trying to tell me how to use my computer. With Linux, I have the choice. 

I will make my desktop as ugly as I want. Thank you very much!!!!

---

### Post by ELD on 2010-08-28
> **Finalfantasykid said:**
> The Mac OSX style dock takes up way too much space IMO.  While it looks nice with it's cool 3d effect and animations, it is not practical.  I have installed AWN many times thinking I might actually find it usefull, but everytime I have found myself deleting it about an hour later because it is pretty pointless.

Use auto hide, takes up less space then...

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2010-08-28
I say they ditch GNOME for AfterStep and have a **wharf**.

---

### Post by Cam42 on 2010-08-28
Off topic. Whenever I see the OP has posted a thread I think
"Hey, I did not post that"

Then I realize that he has a ! while I have a 42.
hmmm.

---

### Post by Cam42 on 2010-08-28
Grrr...
Dupe post. Ignore.

---

### Post by Spice Weasel on 2010-08-28
I'd rather have no panels at all than a big ugly dock.

No point including it. It's sooo easy to install.

---

### Post by kaldor on 2010-08-28
By default included? God no.

I'm a Mac user. The dock suits OS X but I get driven INSANE with it on a 13 inch MacBook. It wastes a lot of room, and you cannot shrink it small enough. Autohide is annoying and useless and kinda defeats the purpose of an ever-ready toolchest with all your apps and windows in it. Then it pops up when you're playing a game and you drag something off. What the hell did I just drag off my damn dock?!

No.

It's the same principle as the global menu. Global menus are LIFESAVERS on small screens. On a large screen, it's an annoyance... a big one. Docks are the opposite. On a small screen they take up way too much space... but if you are working on a 21"+ monitor they make things quite convenient. 

Overall, Ubuntu isn't OS X. I think the default GNOME panel system is more than suitable, but I would however support a global menu like in the netbook edition once it integrates flawlessly with OpenOffice and Firefox/IceCat/etc.

---

### Post by CarpKing on 2010-08-28
I'd love to see an applet on gnome-panel or gnome-shell that acts like a dock (much as the current gnome-panel has both a window list and a window menu as options), but having one by default probably wouldn't be the best.  A lot of people seem to loathe them.  I myself have used AWN instead of a window list since 2006.

---

### Post by pt123 on 2010-08-28
unity in the next version has a unique accordion style dock

[http://design.canonical.com/2010/06/introduction-to-unity-launcher/](http://design.canonical.com/2010/06/introduction-to-unity-launcher/)

---

### Post by Chris1274 on 2010-08-28
When I was using windows7 the dock was one of the first things I got rid of. I never used most of the buttons on it and it would always intrude whenever I was moving the cursor near the top of the screen. I much prefer small buttons (that I acutally use) on the panel, leaving my nice clean desktop without any unnecessary clutter.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-08-28
i like docks, hated OS X though, just way to locked down for me.
currently using docky 2.1.0, just wish it had stacks & application menu like OS X.
use to use awn, but the applets crash to much.
cairo-docks okay, just don't need that heavy.

---

### Post by Legendary_Bibo on 2010-08-28
I feel like I'm the only one who uses Cairo-Dock. I could try AWN, but setting up a dock again is a big PITA. Cairo flickers with my graphics card, but I've got fireworks. :D

I think they just need to ditch the two panel thing an rethink it into one panel.

One cluttered panel > Two uncluttered panels

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2010-08-28
I like my available vertical space, thank you very much.

Docks use up unneeded resources, like compiz.

---

### Post by Cam! on 2010-08-28
You people are aware that you can have windows overlap the dock, and the dock can autohide, right? I'm a FREAK when it comes to saving vertical space on my desktop.

---

### Post by Legendary_Bibo on 2010-08-28
> **Cam! said:**
> You people are aware that you can have windows overlap the dock, and the dock can autohide, right? I'm a FREAK when it comes to saving vertical space on my desktop.

I know that, and with Cairo you can set it up to only show up if you hit the corners of the side of the screen you put the dock on.

---

### Post by aeronutt on 2010-08-28
THE reason I use AWN doc is to save vertical space with its 'intellihide' option. Works great.

---

### Post by inobe on 2010-08-28
> **Cam! said:**
> Fair enough. I think then there should be an option allowing the bottom Panel to only display the icons for apps, then.

i don't think such a thing should be default, i do think it should be an added theme and live amongst other themes of choice.

---

### Post by PhilGil on 2010-08-29
Count me out, as well.  I like the way docks look, but (for me) a panel is less fussy and more functional.

Including a theme with a pre-configured dock  might please some users, however.

---

### Post by inobe on 2010-08-29
> **PhilGil said:**
> 

Including a theme with a pre-configured dock  might please some users, however.

i see only one problem, the cd will never go to dvd, so i insist that conanical move to dvd to include more features.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-08-29
> **Cam! said:**
> You people are aware that you can have windows overlap the dock, and the dock can autohide, right? I'm a FREAK when it comes to saving vertical space on my desktop.

maybe they need pictures. :D

1. normal maximized window

2. mouse moves to bottom

3. normal desktop view

---

### Post by andras artois on 2010-08-29
It's all about the W7 style bar on the right hand side.

---

### Post by Oxwivi on 2010-08-29
> **Cam! said:**
> I just realized that a majority of Ubuntu users often ditch the bottom panel for something like Docky or AWN.
That is not a fact. Just knowing a few people who uses a dock doesn't mean it can apply to the general user. I suggest a poll be taken asking if they use a dock or not.

---

### Post by wkhasintha on 2010-08-29
I for one, find docks are useful and add style to desktop. It has been long time since I deleted the bottom panel. put up a poll and see how it goes.

---

### Post by wkhasintha on 2010-08-29
> **Legendary_Bibo said:**
> I feel like I'm the only one who uses Cairo-Dock. I could try AWN, but setting up a dock again is a big PITA. Cairo flickers with my graphics card, but I've got fireworks. :D

I think they just need to ditch the two panel thing an rethink it into one panel.

One cluttered panel > Two uncluttered panels

+1 for Cairo :popcorn:

---

### Post by V for Vincent on 2010-08-29
Forum polls aren't representative. I'm a big fan of docky, but I don't think anything like it should be included by default. Plus, unity looks pretty dockish.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-08-29
I use a dock , but this is an extra and should be installed by choice. Who would decide what dock is to be used ?

---

### Post by jemmah on 2010-11-08
a dock is a personal thing, like your wallpaper, you should do it yourself if you are a dock person, like me and you.

---

### Post by PuddingKnife on 2010-11-08
Im no stick in the mud, I'd be all for it. I think the 2 panel look is atrocious and outdated, and the first thing I do is delete both of them in favor of AWN, which autohides. Now talk about saving space!

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2010-11-08
This discussion is a bit moot now, seeing as 11.04 will use the Unity shell, which has some kind of dockish appendage by default, if I'm not mistaken.

You can get a look at it here:

[http://arstechnica.com/open-source/reviews/2010/05/exclusive-hands-on-with-ubuntus-new-unity-netbook-shell.ars](http://arstechnica.com/open-source/reviews/2010/05/exclusive-hands-on-with-ubuntus-new-unity-netbook-shell.ars)

---

### Post by Windows Nerd on 2010-11-08
Is it that hard to:

ctrl+f2
type terminal
hit enter
type "sudo apt-get install awn/docky/other_dock_name"
hit enter
type your account password
hit enter
hit y
hit enter.

bamadee boom. You have a dock. You could install one faster than it took to write that first post of yours. Or better yet, save valuable developer time to integrate one. Linux is about choice and freedom: if you don't like something, change it yourself. No one is going to stop you.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-11-08
:lolflag:

it's all moot, if unity is the next desktop, guess what there's a dock. :)

---

### Post by Khakilang on 2010-11-08
This look like it should have been a poll instead. Those that prefer dock say "Yes" and those that against it will be "No". I would say no.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-11-08
> **Khakilang said:**
> This look like it should have been a poll instead. Those that prefer dock say "Yes" and those that against it will be "No". I would say no.

why? your vote don't matter.

all you anti-dock people can wait, then bitch about the fact you'll have to install something else cause you don't like the dock.

:lolflag:

at least 1 person got there wish.

---

### Post by Windows Nerd on 2010-11-08
I anticipate that the first thing I do on a unity desktop is remove it if it doesn't tickle my fancy. 

Heck, I might just move my laptop over to Arch too...

---

### Post by Khakilang on 2010-11-08
Just because I say "No" doesn't mean I am against it. I have try AWN on 10.10 and it's look pretty cool. But I seldom touch it except for only a few Apps I normally use. So I have no use for it. Beside I can put those Apps on the desktop and set my mouse to a single click. Maybe you can change the poll from "Yes" and "No" to "Use" and "Don't use". If that makes you feel better.

---

### Post by Oxwivi on 2010-11-09
No to docks in general, but AWN Lucido, panel mode hotter than W7 taskbar!

---

### Post by ssj6akshat on 2010-11-09
Unity has a [s]dock[/s] launcher that looks and works like somewhat a cross between a bock and win 7 superbar.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-11-09
> **Khakilang said:**
> Just because I say "No" doesn't mean I am against it. I have try AWN on 10.10 and it's look pretty cool. But I seldom touch it except for only a few Apps I normally use. So I have no use for it. Beside I can put those Apps on the desktop and set my mouse to a single click. Maybe you can change the poll from "Yes" and "No" to "Use" and "Don't use". If that makes you feel better.

my bag, didn't mean nothing offensive. now that i'm sobering up doesn't seem as funny. :)

i'm personally an adaptive type it doesn't matter to me, i use what ever's available.

(thank god, for spell check) :lolflag:

---

### Post by GabrielYYZ on 2010-11-09
> **kerry_s said:**
> **my bag**, didn't mean nothing offensive. now that i'm sobering up doesn't seem as funny. :)

i'm personally an adaptive type it doesn't matter to me, i use what ever's available.

(**thank god, for spell check**) :lolflag:
agnosticism/atheism don't look that bad after all... :lolflag:
disclaimer: no offence meant to anyone in any way, shape or form, just found the contradiction amusing.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-11-09
> **GabrielYYZ said:**
> agnosticism/atheism don't look that bad after all... :lolflag:
disclaimer: no offence meant to anyone in any way, shape or form, just found the contradiction amusing.

:lolflag:
at that time i was thinking what the hell, looks like i just rolled my hands on the keyboard, that's how bad i was typing, i'm still a little foggy. :)

i was thinking i should stop drinking or drink more often, lost my thought. :lolflag:

---

### Post by Johnsie on 2010-11-09
No dock needed. The panels are good enough. I put both my panels at the bottom of the screen.

You'll be getting your side dock (*cringe*) with Unity. I'm not a big fan of this because it will get in the way more than a panel at the bottom of the screen. The western user reads from left to right, so the side dock will always get in the way.

---

### Post by bryncoles on 2010-11-09
Also not a fan of Docks, at all.  I have used OSX, and the doc is fine if you never use more than four applications, and never have more than four instances of any combination of applications open at any time. 

It seems to me however that another solution to the problem which docks are trying to solve is found in the application launcher, things such as alt-f2, Gnome-do and Kupfer (I really wish Kupfer was as good as Gnome-do. Stupid Mono). Yes, I know gnome-do has a dock-mode. On my computer however it gnome-*doesn't*!

These applications sit quietly running as background processes until summoned, and then are perfectly capable of launching your applications. I then use the unnecessary bloat of compiz (which rapidly became central to my way of working) to switch expose style between my open applications.

When Unity becomes standard, maybe I'll explore other window managers (I'm looking at *you*, openbox...)

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-11-09
> **Johnsie said:**
> No dock needed. The panels are good enough. I put both my panels at the bottom of the screen.

You'll be getting your side dock (*cringe*) with Unity. I'm not a big fan of this because it will get in the way more than a panel at the bottom of the screen. **The western user reads from left to right, so the side dock will always get in the way.**
People keep saying this, please provide SOME evidence to support your claim that it is a problem.

Anyway, the Unity launcher will be movable in 11.04, so it's a moot issue.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-11-09
i think unity handles multiple windows just fine.

---

### Post by rg4w on 2010-11-09
> **Johnsie said:**
> No dock needed. The panels are good enough.
Almost.

The only limitation I've found with panels in my own setup is that I really like to move the bottom one to the right side of the monitor to maximize the vertical space so critical on modern widescreens.

But the problem is that in vertical orientation the background is a bit FUBAR.  Apparently it's so optimized for being horizontal that there's been no thought to how it looks when it's made vertical, with stripes rendered horizontally across some portions, apparently the beveled edges designed to look nice in a single row in horizontal orientation but just give a "broken" look when vertical. (Yes, I've turned off the default background pattern and replaced it with a solid color - still renders with the bevels).

But that's really about it.  I tried Cairo Dock and enjoyed it, but found it to be a bit much for daily use, even after wading through the seemingly-infinite variety of configurations.  So I went back to a panel on the right side, and it's generally been very nice (minor cosmetic anomaly notwithstanding).

---

### Post by jemmah on 2010-11-10
:(:(NO, NOT The  MISTER PAPER  CLIP!! [above]:(:(

---

### Post by Nightstrike2009 on 2010-11-10
I am a mint user but I have moved my panel to the top and use docky at the bottom of my screen, I can see the point of this post, but its easy enough to "remove panel" with the bottom panel then follow with:

> sudo apt-get install docky

In my case, then set dock to start at start up and voila job done, personally Id like to see ubuntu 11.04 use one but I am happy either way :-)

PS: Don't get me started on Unity, I have a strong dislike for it, to put it mildly. :-(

---

### Post by czr114 on 2010-11-10
Have they announced whether the sidebars, docks, and other such stuff will be disabled in unity, as well as the degree of customization in general?

Unity seems to be where the dev attention is going, which should hopefully boost reliability and performance, which is overall a great thing, so long as the eye candy is optional.

---

### Post by CarpKing on 2010-11-10
> **czr114 said:**
> Have they announced whether the sidebars, docks, and other such stuff will be disabled in unity, as well as the degree of customization in general?

No one knows what Unity will be like in 11.04, because no plans have been announced beyond that it will be completely different than the current Unity.  Most likely we'll find out the night before feature freeze and then complain about it for the rest of the development process.

---

### Post by sanderella on 2010-11-10
I read '11.04 needs a native Duck.' duuuuhhhh So here is a nice one.

---

### Post by CarpKing on 2010-11-10
> **sanderella said:**
> I read '11.04 needs a native Duck.' duuuuhhhh So here is a nice one.

Ubuntu 6.06

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2010-11-11
> **sanderella said:**
> I read '11.04 needs a native Duck.' duuuuhhhh So here is a nice one.

Are mallards native to the Isle of Mann?  Or are we going to have different internationalized versions of ubuntu with ducks native to the respective regions?

---

### Post by CraigPaleo on 2010-11-12
> **Cam! said:**
> Fair enough. I think then there should be an option allowing the bottom Panel to only display the icons for apps, then.

DockbarX is a panel applet that allows this. It's in the repos. 

Edit: Oops! I think it may be in the experimental repos. Otherwise, you can get it here: [http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/DockbarX?content=101604](http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/DockbarX?content=101604)

---

