---
title: "Year 2038...?"
date: 2008-04-17
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Fzang on 2008-04-17
I just read about the "everything will stop working in 2038" thing

But what I really didn't get was:... is it a date? Why can't we just change our data back to 1990 or something and then we'll be happy again?

Will this affect EVERYthing? Even my toaster? Or will it only affect stuff connected to the internet? This seems like a stupid problem o.O Why can't we just reset this weird clock? o.O

*Totally oblivious*:shock::shock:

---

### Post by MasterSushi on 2008-04-17
Why would everything stop working in 2038? This sounds like another Y2K scare.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2008-04-17
You should stock up on bottled water, canned food, toilet paper, and gun ammo.

It doesn't matter, though, because the Apocalypse will happen before that anyway.

---

### Post by quirks on 2008-04-17
Hi Fzang,

if I were you, I wouldn't worry to much about that (if you do at all, and your are not just joking). People were just as scared about the year 2000. And it turned out, that this had no effect at all. Why? Because they fixed it in advance. The year 2038 is still far in the future. That is enough time to react on it.

I hope you can sleep better tonight ;-),
quirks

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2008-04-17
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem)

Moved to the Cafe.

---

### Post by TheLions on 2008-04-17
read here about it:

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem)

---

### Post by DarkDancer on 2008-04-17
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem")

---

### Post by Fzang on 2008-04-17
:d

Not scared at all of course :KS

In 30 years I'll be programming on my toaster anyways

>_> Evolution goes too fast

Edit: I totally forgot to ask: do we even NEED that time_t time stamp thing? It seems stupid that everything is going to crash because of that

I'll write a note to myself about buying a solar clock before year 2038, that should fix it, unless the sun blows up a billion years too early

Hmm.. time is nasty

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2008-04-17
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem)

:lolflag:

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2008-04-17
I hope it gets fixed. I couldn't imagine not being able to use my Linux :shock:

---

### Post by |2A|N on 2008-04-17
There is nothing wrong with things not working... I mean isn't that how it used to be..!? We should be worried about current issues first if that doesn't kill us then plan B will. :lolflag:

---

### Post by Blue Heron on 2008-04-17
> **HymnToLife said:**
> [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem)

Moved to the Cafe.

> **TheLions said:**
> read here about it:

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem)

> **DarkDancer said:**
> [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem")

> **forrestcupp said:**
> [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem)

:lolflag:

wikipedia is not an reliable source

---

### Post by klange on 2008-04-17
EXT3 suffers from this (and ext4's wraparound is in 2514.)

---

### Post by stchman on 2008-04-17
Has anybody went in and set their clock to the time to see if the bug is present?

Even if it is true, we have nearly 30 years.  PCs and OSs are going to be very different in 30 years.

---

### Post by Tatty on 2008-04-17
> **Blue Heron said:**
> wikipedia is not an reliable source

Its as reliable as anything else.  Sucessive studies have shown it to be as reliable as the encyclopedia britannica.

No once source is reliable on its own but I dont see the problem with using wikipedia to read about something like this.  I would expect to see more sources if it was a serious discussion on a very serious matter, but surely in this context it is fine.

---

### Post by Polygon on 2008-04-17
> **Blue Heron said:**
> wikipedia is not an reliable source

this isnt the place to debate the use of wikipedia, the article is right about what the problem is.

---

### Post by Xbehave on 2008-04-17
y2k was a joke nobody took it seriously apart from America, but its a good thing because if it wasn't y2k, we wouldn't have ubuntu. The 2038 bug is actually based on technical info, i think itll be fixed sometime around 2030, i mean its not hard to fix just change a couple of things, and then scan the OS to make sure everybody else has replaced them too.

> **stchman said:**
> Has anybody went in and set their clock to the time to see if the bug is present?

Even if it is true, we have nearly 30 years.  PCs and OSs are going to be very different in 30 years.
what about embedded systems, the ones that people just dont notice? I think your right but it really depends when things get fixed, if they get fixed by 2020 were safe but if people fix computers after 2033 there is a good chance that embedded will slip by without getting fixed, and what if that embedded controls traffic lights or elevators? well tbh probably nothing as there are a load of fall backs on most things that mean it would shut-down instead of go crazy.

---

### Post by Sirocco on 2008-04-17
**AMD64** is The solution of problem.
To 2038 any computer will bi with >=64bit OS and AMD64 :)
The 64bit OS uses 64 bit time_t  (whit araund 300milion years) and the problem put off to 300 000 000 years :)

---

### Post by popch on 2008-04-17
> **Xbehave said:**
> y2k was a joke nobody took it seriously apart from America.

Ah, good to know that I am living in America. And good to know that all those people could just have taken a sabbatical year who worked so diligently in finding all places where faulty date arithmetic was performed.

---

### Post by Tux.Ice on 2008-04-17
My clock f***s up its all wierded out and has this weird 53 in the upper left corner of my clock.

EDIT: OK MY CLOCK JUST CHANGED TO 1991!!!!!!!!!

---

### Post by Tux.Ice on 2008-04-17
Is this verified with anyone else. Set your clock to 2038 january 1st 13 - 14 - 6 and wait 5 minustes it will change.

---

### Post by macogw on 2008-04-17
We'll be on 128-bit computing by then. Anything still 32bit won't be able to handle the date, but really...what 32-bit stuff will stll be in use?

> **Tux.Ice said:**
> Is this verified with anyone else. Set your clock to 2038 january 1st 13 - 14 - 6 and wait 5 minustes it will change.
Int overflow will happen on the 19th of January, not the 14th.

---

### Post by zwygart on 2008-04-17
Hi,

I tried with a live CD 6.10. I set the time to 19 January 2038, 03:13:50. At 03:14:08 the time and date changed to 13 january 1901 at 20:45:52.

I was able to start OpenOffice one time. But the second the logo freezed and openoffice not started.TaskManager worked but there where not openoffice. After some minutes I tried to start firefox. Then everything freezed except the mouse. The keyboard has a connection which is not the best quality. It have problems before. May be another try may done differents results.It's funny to try. 

Also I was unable to set the year at a number under 1901 or higher than 2038. If you would test with live CD it's not difficult and save.

May be others may try.

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2008-04-17
> **Tux.Ice said:**
> My clock f***s up its all wierded out and has this weird 53 in the upper left corner of my clock.

EDIT: OK MY CLOCK JUST CHANGED TO 1991!!!!!!!!!

Congrats, you have just traveled forward and backward in time in 1 second. :lolflag:

---

### Post by Eisenwinter on 2008-04-17
I've tested it, I have an AMD64, and my Ubuntu version is the 64 bit version.

I changed my system's clock to the said date, and nothing happened.

Everything kept working just like it was before I set the date.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-04-17
Well by then we might all be using something new, who know by then HURD will finally be finished :p

---

### Post by spamzilla on 2008-04-17
> **zwygart said:**
> Hi,

I tried with a live CD 6.10. I set the time to 19 January 2038, 03:13:50. At 03:14:08 the time and date changed to 13 january 1901 at 20:45:52.

I got the same results when booted up normally and everything seems to be working fine.

---

### Post by zwygart on 2008-04-17
At a second try, nothing happened else than the start logo of openoffice feezed in the sreen. But I was able start all openoffice programs and firefox and Nibbles. The time is just running at 13 december 1901. That's all. It's a live CD so not the same as a real installed version.

---

### Post by zwygart on 2008-04-17
This time everything freezed like the first time. Only the mouse works. It happened when I waited a while, time to do other things. May be time that screensaver starts (it not appeared). Until this, time was running. I clicked on firefox Icon and instead of starting firefox, it stopped the time(seconds). Pressing Ctrl+Alt+Del not done anything. Then I restarted the X server by pressing Ctrl+Alt+Back. Screen go off then appeared vertical lines. I cannot give a screenshot. After I tried to switch to terminal line (Ctrl+Alt+F1). Some thing appeared (line) and disappeared. Then nothing. Unable to make appear something by switching F1 to F8 or restart the same way. Differents try and nothing appeared. Even the light on the keyboard goes off(Num lock) and cannot turn on (Numlock or Maj). Wired.

If in 2038 you have not a 64 bit, then set time back to 1990 or something. 

Some others tried. If yes then wait 10 or 15 minutes and start some thing.

---

### Post by Superkoop on 2008-04-17
This is pretty interesting, but, I'm using 64bit now. And in 30 yrs I am plannng on running 256bit. =D So no worries here. ^_^

---

### Post by Atomic Dog on 2008-04-17
I am already stocking up on canned goods, guns, a mad max type vehicle, undergrund bunker, water, cigarettes and plenty of alcohol.  You all can deal with this mess.  I'm out of here...

---

### Post by D-EJ915 on 2008-04-17
Also you can't set the date before the epoch.

---

### Post by Lostincyberspace on 2008-04-17
I have no problem with it I set to one minute before the specified time and waited a half hour and nothing happened.

---

### Post by Xbehave on 2008-04-17
> Ah, good to know that I am living in America. And good to know that all those people could just have taken a sabbatical year who worked so diligently in finding all places where faulty date arithmetic was performed.
Im sure, they found plenty of bugs in some stupid database programs, but in the $300 billion, would have been better spent on getting Superkoop his ram (see below) or better voting machines for florida, In the rest of the world we lost a few SMS messages & had a few ATMs give you the wrong time, but we were all taking sabbaticals so nobody noticed.

> **SunnyRabbiera said:**
> Well by then we might all be using something new, who know by then HURD will finally be finished :p
Not only that but because wine will be 100% windows complient ill be playing duke nukem forever on it!

> This is pretty interesting, but, I'm using 64bit now. And in 30 yrs I am plannng on running 256bit. =D So no worries here. ^_^
lol, but 64bit is a practical limit, to get any benifit from anything bigger youd need to live to be 3 billion or install 16.8 million terabytes of ram, at current costs that would be £ 206,158,430,208 or about 8 microsofts.

hell im on 64bit because i may one day beat the 3gb limit but in reality im not gunna run vista!

---

### Post by Tundro Walker on 2008-04-17
Operating Systems with Darwinistic limits to their life-span built into them.  That's kind of cool actually ... it forces us to evolve our OS or to fade into history.

Actually, as smart as the Unix programmers were, it just sounds like they made the same fundamental mistake all modern programmers & geeks make ... they thought something better would be around in 2038 (which it will be), but neglected the fact that once you have something in place, tons of other crap gets built on top of it, and it turns into a royal headache swapping the table-cloth out from under all those dishes.

---

### Post by Alpinist on 2008-04-17
> **Xbehave said:**
> lol, but 64bit is a practical limit, to get any benifit from anything bigger youd need to live to be 3 billion or install 16.8 million terabytes of ram, at current costs that would be £ 206,158,430,208 or about 8 microsofts.!

You can't compare current costs to future costs.  In 1984 I paid $60 for 64K of ram.  That would be $3,932,160 for 4 gigs of ram.  Not as big an amount as what you mention but still beyond a home users computer budget.

---

### Post by articpenguin on 2008-04-18
will windoze get affected by this i hope?

---

### Post by mips on 2008-04-18
> **forrestcupp said:**
> You should stock up on bottled water, canned food, toilet paper, and gun ammo.

It doesn't matter, though, because the Apocalypse will happen before that anyway.

lol, I remember watching CNN with Y2k and all these people shopping at walmart and the likes for the stuff you mentioned above + generators etc as the world 'as they knew it' was coming to an end. Really gave me a good laugh.

Anyway, whatever the problem, don't worry about it as it will be fixed.

---

### Post by fatality_uk on 2008-04-18
Lets see. Im 40 on the 24th April
I smoke
Im overweight, just
I have a bad diet
I don't exercise

Statistically, by 2038 I'll be dead, so i'll not worry too much ;)

---

### Post by BDNiner on 2008-04-18
I am not worried. According to the Mayans we will not make it passed December 12th 2012.

---

### Post by tigerplug on 2008-04-18
> **forrestcupp said:**
> You should stock up on bottled water, canned food, toilet paper, and gun ammo.

It doesn't matter, though, because the Apocalypse will happen before that anyway.

Agreed!

Get yourself a copy of WoW and 5 Laptop batteries... its gonna be a rough one!

---

### Post by tbrminsanity on 2008-04-18
I though SUN was working on a solution and they are trying to get other Unix OSs to get on board.  I think they wanted to increase from a 32bit number to a 64 bit number (effectively putting off the problem for another 100 years or so).

---

### Post by klange on 2008-04-18
> **tbrminsanity said:**
> I though SUN was working on a solution and they are trying to get other Unix OSs to get on board.  I think they wanted to increase from a 32bit number to a 64 bit number (effectively putting off the problem for another 100 years or so).

That'd be another *billion* years, if they make it an unsigned 32-bit, that will be about 70 years of safety. There already is a solution, it's just a matter of "will we be able to convert everything over to 64-bit CPUs before then?".

---

### Post by tbrminsanity on 2008-04-18
@WindowsSucks

30 years, it is possible.

---

