---
title: "Poll: how do you organize music and photos on your computer?"
date: 2008-11-26
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by earthpigg on 2008-11-26
me:

strip them of all id3 tags and the like, give them descriptive file names, put them in descriptively named folders.

my mp3's are kept in one gigantic directory, my photos are spread out with a directory for every year or two, and a half dozen subdirectories in each of those.

do you use id3 tags and the jpg equivelent?

i hate stuff like f-spot that tries to do all that stuff for me... and when i import photos it wont STFU and stop trying to categorize and store thumbnails.

---

### Post by RiceMonster on 2008-11-26
I don't have a digital camera, so any pictures on my computer are just dumped into the pictures directory, unless they're wallpapers which I have a directory for.

My music is organized on my external hard drive like this:

Music/A/Artist/Album/track

On my onboard hd, I don't have nearly as much so its like this:

Music/Artist/Album/Track

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-26
So....
Where's the poll?:D

---

### Post by sstusick on 2008-11-26
My music goes into one directory with subdirectories according to artist, album, etc. 

And I have one directory for pictures, and that is where they are all stored. 

Everything in my /home is categorized into folders. Makes it easy to keep track of things.

---

### Post by Sinkingships7 on 2008-11-26
> **eternalnewbee said:**
> So....
Where's the poll?:D

That's what she said. 

>_>

---

### Post by myusername on 2008-11-26
my music is just sorted as follows
/artists/albums/track

---

### Post by Sinkingships7 on 2008-11-26
> **myusername said:**
> my music is just sorted as follows
/artists/albums/track

+1

---

### Post by Rokurosv on 2008-11-26
Poll?

How do I organize my music and photos?
A: I don't. :P

---

### Post by gn2 on 2008-11-26
Music goes in /home/Music/Artist/Album 
id3tags retained and edited where necessary using Easytag and played using Amarok

Pictures go in /home/Pictures/date transferred to PC with description
Viewed and edited using digiKam

---

### Post by Capt. Mac on 2008-11-26
> **sinkingships7 said:**
> [quote=myusername;6254018]my music is just sorted as follows
/artists/albums/track
+1[/quote]
+2

My pictures are basically just dumped in the pictures folder. But this topic has inspired me to organize them into folders before it becomes too hectic. Here are the folders I currently have:
Funny pictures
Pictures from phone (my only digital camera)
Wallpapers

---

### Post by Trail on 2008-11-26
Amarok and digicam (previously, kphotoalbum).

If nothing else, that fuzzy little search thingy in digicam (where you draw into a box a rough outline of the picture you are trying to find, and it gives you a list of pics that look similar) is awesome for quickly finding 4chan pics you want to post...

---

### Post by wmcbrine on 2008-11-26
Poorly.

Sad thing is, I pull the SD card out of my camera, pop it in the computer, and Ubuntu helpfully recognizes that it's from a camera, and asks me if I'd like to import and organize my pictures. And I say no, sticking with my non-system of just dumping them in a subdirectory of picutres/, like I've been doing since before Ubuntu existed. Maybe renaming them and filing them in different folders, maybe not. I tell myself, "One day, I'm gonna learn how that photo thingie that always pops up works, and use that." But I don't. Maybe if I were starting from scratch, and wasn't thinking about having to go back and reorganize a couple thousand old pictures...

---

### Post by Zaraphrax on 2008-11-26
Photos, depends really.

Pictures\chan <---- Chan related pictures, my ammo against fail.
Pictures\wallpaper <---- Wallpapers go here.
Pictures\Eventname_date <----- photos from specific events get archived like this

Music:

Music folder\First Letter of Artist's Name\Artist Name\Album Name

And then, Amarok does the rest.

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-11-26
I used to be very organised and sort things down to the most minute detail. However these days, thanks to various search tools and tags I keep my filing basic.

So, for instance my music is in two folders - albums & tracks. I use Easytag to tag my files and then I use my audio players sort facilities to sort tracks and its search facilities to find stuff etc.

The same goes for my photos. Apart from some basic filing, I use Tracker to search and find anything I'm looking for.

:cool:

---

### Post by geoken on 2008-11-26
Music: Dumped in to my music directory. Sub-directories have become archaic to me ever since I started using music management apps.

Photos: In my photo directory in a folder for each import. The folders are auto generated by the camera import tool, I wouldn't mind if these were just dumped in there as well.  

I don't understand the hostility towards metadata and the tendency to rely on 'tried and tested' directories. Directories are just a specific type of metadata.

---

### Post by halovivek on 2008-11-26
i will keep all in another drive. Run from that one.

---

### Post by andrew.mckevitt on 2008-11-26
My music is put in a music folder arranged by artist on my server (I use Gnump3d)
Photos are also stored on my server and sorted by year/event.
I prefer my own organising rather than f-spot etc.

I also have three seperate backups of my photos on other systems.

---

### Post by poetstorm on 2008-11-26
My downloaded music is under folders by category: Celtic, Classical, Pop, Country, Ethnic, Metal, Theme songs, Broadway…

Albums I havr previously ripped from old wWindows Media Player (before Ubuntu) I have under a Ripped Album folder by name. 

As for photos I have them in folder by trip or location. 

My only gripe with music is now I have all these album cover jpgs stored in with my music. That really grigs me. XD

---

### Post by Inxi on 2008-11-26
Home/Music/Artist or Band/Album/Variations of Said Album/Music Files (mostly .flac).

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-11-26
> **earthpigg said:**
> me:

strip them of all id3 tags and the like, give them descriptive file names, put them in descriptively named folders.

my mp3's are kept in one gigantic directory, my photos are spread out with a directory for every year or two, and a half dozen subdirectories in each of those.

do you use id3 tags and the jpg equivelent?

i hate stuff like f-spot that tries to do all that stuff for me... and when i import photos it wont STFU and stop trying to categorize and store thumbnails.

All my music (around 5000 songs) are stored in /home/rw/Music

In that directory, there are various directories. 1 directory per genre, with sub folders for sub genres..

That's how the songs are organized.

It's the same for videos and pictures.

--

Sure it would be nice if they all had correct tags, but I don't care enough to add tags.

I don't use things like fspot or banshee, ... to manage my collections.

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-11-26
> **Zaraphrax said:**
> Photos, depends really.

Pictures\chan <---- Chan related pictures, my ammo against fail.
Pictures\wallpaper <---- Wallpapers go here.
Pictures\Eventname_date <----- photos from specific events get archived like this

Music:

Music folder\First Letter of Artist's Name\Artist Name\Album Name

And then, Amarok does the rest.

Would you share your chan folder with the world?

(archive it up and upload to rapidshare or something?)

---

### Post by jimi_hendrix on 2008-11-26
photos go in photo folder

itunes takes care of music...i dont have many photos so they are easy to organize

---

### Post by markp1989 on 2008-11-26
I have musci in folders like this
/media/data/music/A/artist/album/title 

And i have them all taged properly

---

### Post by bobbocanfly on 2008-11-26
Music is kept in a very organised way (I use mpd + ncmpc where you play files by navigating folders) according to this pattern:

$MUSIC_BASEDIR/$ARTIST/$ARTIST - $ALBUM [$RELEASE_YEAR - $FORMAT - $BITRATE]/$TRACKNUM - $TRACKNAME

Yeah, its geeky to have the bitrate/format in the directory name, but when you have multiple versions of albums in multiple formats, it makes it about 10x quicker than going in and checking filenames/bitrates by hand.

Photos on the other hand are dumped into two subdirectories:

```
bobbo@tiger> ls                                                                                                                   /home/bobbo/Photos/photos 
internet/  stuff/

```

Internet is funny stuff off the Internet and "Stuff" is everything else. Basically I need to sort it out, but ... effort!

---

### Post by Swagman on 2008-11-26
like this

[IMG]http://i261.photobucket.com/albums/ii45/Outcast_Aussie/ch00nz.jpg[/IMG]

And surprisingly.. Photos go in Pictures.. !!

---

### Post by ajcham on 2008-12-12
~/Music/vorbis/Artist.AlbumTitle/xxTrackTitle.ogg
~/Music/flac/Artist.AlbumTitle/xxTrackTitle.flac

I use tags as well, but I like to have my files organised and named in such a way that my music directory would still be usable without them.

I don't like using special characters in my file names (with the exception of dots, but only as a delimiter) so all commas, apostrophes, full stops etc. are stripped and [CamelCase]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CamelCase") used rather than spaces or underscores.

Eg. R.E.M.'s *What's the Frequency, Kenneth?* is saved as:

~/Music/vorbis/REM.InTime/04WhatsTheFrequencyKenneth.ogg

EDIT: Forgot to mention pictures - I'm less organised here, but that will probably change as my picture collection grows.  Most just get dumped in the ~/Pictures directory, although I do have a sub-directory for wallpapers.

---

### Post by dannytatom on 2008-12-12
Pictures are organized by category.  Music like so:

Music/Category/Artist/Album/Disc *(if more than one disc)/Tracks

Category being album, soundtrack, live, etc

& I keep the mp3s tagged, but usually edit them to include special characters if they were left out (ex. Sigur Rós).

---

### Post by Lostincyberspace on 2008-12-12
Me:
I take all my music and place amazing 1D3v1 and v2 tags on them, with more data in the tags than in the song itself(not really but almost). 

I then take and dump them in a music folder and place them wherever it suits me.

---

### Post by chris4585 on 2008-12-12
I organize my music in a very specific way, I hate programs that try to organize my music for me.. Quod Libet and MOC are a godsend, for Pictures I also hate programs that try to organize my pictures for me, I can't stand f-spot, I remove it immediately.  

my music is stored on a external HDD, so I link my external HDD to ~/Music I do this because I reformat often, and I'm immune from backing up tons of data before a reformat

From there I have subdirs:

[COLOR="Red"]~/Music/Artists/[/COLOR]

In here I have full albums and discographies of artists, or a large group of similar music, such as mix cds, eg. the best of the 80's
[COLOR="Red"]
~/Music/Alphabetical/[/COLOR]

In here most things were downloaded one by one from the internet 

within [COLOR="Red"]~/Music/Alphabetical/[/COLOR] I have
[COLOR="Red"]~/Music/Alphabetical/0 - 9
~/Music/Alphabetical/A
~/Music/Alphabetical/B
~/Music/Alphabetical/C[/COLOR]

etc..

then within the same folder as [COLOR="Red"]~/Music/Alphabetical/[/COLOR] I have files I have not yet organized into 0 - 9 and A - Z, these are my newest files I've downloaded, they are  not yet in 0 - 9 and A - Z because I want to listen to these more and they are easier to find

I try to keep my files names (Artist - Song Title) and I'd like my tags to match that exactly I find it very annoying to have bad tags or file names, a good example of a good filename: April March - Chick Habit.mp3

I also have [COLOR="Red"]~/Music/Playlists[/COLOR] which have some playlists I have created (they take forever to make)

1373 directories, 19399 files which equals 108GB in all

for Pictures I'm a little less organized, but I am organized non the less

---

### Post by dannytatom on 2008-12-12
The one thing that really bugs me, and I have yet to find a good way of doing, is tagging rap music.  Some people tag it "Tupac Feat. Notorious B.I.G. - Runnin'," others "Tupac - Runnin' (ft. Notorious B.I.G.)."

I've yet to find a good way to do it, and when I do, it's gonna talk much effort to retag it all.

---

### Post by chucky chuckaluck on 2008-12-12
the only music i have on my laptop is stuff i got with streamripper, so it's all in a folder called "music", broken down into subfolders according to what station i got it from (most of it came from somafm.com). the photos are in various folders (wallpaper, screenshots, stupid crap, etc.). i use mostly feh and gimp for graphics, but i use lots of different music players (well, i play with them before going back to cplay).

---

### Post by jenkinbr on 2008-12-12
I get all my music off of audio CDs

The first thing I do when I import them is to let sound-juicer organize them into folders based on the following:[list]
[*]compilations go into ~/Audio/Various/$Album/$## - $title - $artist.mp3
[*]Normal CD's go into ~/Audio/$artist/$album/$## - $title.mp3
[/list]

After the rip, I then verify that they are named the way I want them, then I merge them into my ~/Music/ directory for Amarok to index.

As for photos, I have none...

---

### Post by seeker5528 on 2008-12-12
In the past I have put stuff has gone into....

music/artist/album

Soundjuicer it puts it that way too.

Stuff that has been imported with Amarok goes into....

music/first letter of artist name/artist/album

And I have too many artists, so I think I prefer that now.

Stuff I have download from music services get grouped accordingly....

music/LastFM/normal hierarchy

music/Besonic/normal hierarchy

etc....

Later, Seeker

---

### Post by cardinals_fan on 2008-12-12
Music: A bit messy at the moment.  I have a bunch of playlists in music/, with all the actual files in a few directories inside.  I either just use the playlists or look around in the directories (I use cplay).

Photos: They're organized in folders for each trip or season.  I have all my pictures tagged with keywords for locations and people.  GQView is my preferred organizer.

---

