---
title: ".ubuntu like .mac"
date: 2006-06-17
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by nolihc on 2006-06-17
Today i was thinking about a service like .mac but why not for Ubuntu?

People that dont know .mac ([http://www.mac.com](http://www.mac.com)) You can sync your stuff(calendar, files, mail, etc.)

By using an Ubuntu account, you can sponsor Ubuntu by getting something in return. Or maybe .Ubuntu software for on your own server.
 
Great idea or big no no??

---

### Post by BWF89 on 2006-06-17
Sounds like a great idea. Mabye they could offer that service for like $3 a month or something.

---

### Post by Acesomeone on 2006-06-17
[QUOTE=nolihc]Great idea or big no no??[/QUOTE]
Sounds pretty interesting, but I wouldn't just copy the idea, that would be quite silly. Though, I'd use it as a source of inspiration and build on it from there. 

Nice thought!

---

### Post by curuxz on 2006-06-17
I get this already pretty much with egroupware sync'd with KDE

---

### Post by v8YKxgHe on 2006-06-17
> Or maybe .Ubuntu software for on your own server.

Or maybe you can create a list of the applications you want to have installed as your base package extras. So if ever you need to re-install Ubuntu, you would first then install it from the CD - then sign into your account once installed, it would then link up to Synaptic or apt-get and then download and install your 'extra packages' for you. 

It would save quite a bit of time I think

or have I got the wrong idea of it ?

---

### Post by BWF89 on 2006-06-17
[QUOTE=AlexC_]Or maybe you can create a list of the applications you want to have installed as your base package extras. So if ever you need to re-install Ubuntu, you would first then install it from the CD - then sign into your account once installed, it would then link up to Synaptic or apt-get and then download and install your 'extra packages' for you. 

It would save quite a bit of time I think

or have I got the wrong idea of it ?[/QUOTE]
And it could save your settings/configurations for those applications. A feature like that for only a few dollars a month could get quite a few people to switch from their distros (or even Windows) to Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Acesomeone on 2006-06-19
What about (also) letting use this service when they bring on new Ubuntu users, if they don't want to pay for it, or something? :)

---

