---
title: "13.10 released tomorrow"
date: 2013-10-16
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by georgelappies on 2013-10-16
Then we get 13.10, looking forward to it as usual.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2013-10-16
Yesterday is history. Tomorrow a mystery. But today is a gift. That's why it's called present.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-10-16
> **georgelappies said:**
> Then we get 13.10, looking forward to it as usual.

I've never quite understood the obsession with "release dates" for open-source projects. Ubuntu 13.10's official release date is tomorrow, but it's perfectly easy to install it one day earlier, or a week earlier, or a month earlier. There aren't any functional changes in the last month, only bugfixes. Ubuntu 13.10 is already out and usable today; tomorrow is just another date.

---

### Post by Erik1984 on 2013-10-16
> **3rdalbum said:**
> I've never quite understood the obsession with "release dates" for open-source projects. Ubuntu 13.10's official release date is tomorrow, but it's perfectly easy to install it one day earlier, or a week earlier, or a month earlier. There aren't any functional changes in the last month, only bugfixes. Ubuntu 13.10 is already out and usable today; tomorrow is just another date.

I do understand the 'obsession' and find it a bit sad that the excitement from earlier releases (count down timers etc.) has gone. Understandable also as there are not so many exciting new features.

---

### Post by android63 on 2013-10-16
> **Euroman said:**
> I do understand the 'obsession' and find it a bit sad that the excitement from earlier releases (count down timers etc.) has gone. Understandable also as there are not so many exciting new features.
Yeah, it seems people aren't as excited about new releases as they used to be.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-10-16
People are probably realising that if they have the choice they should wait at least a couple of weeks, maybe a month after the official release before installing (unless the old system is dead or dying, which makes it worthwhile to take the chance).

---

### Post by Erik1984 on 2013-10-16
> **mörgæs said:**
> People are probably realising that if they have the choice they should wait at least a couple of weeks, maybe a month after the official release before installing (unless the old system is dead or dying, which makes it worthwhile to take the chance).

True, but I think it's more than that. I never installed on release day (I am the type of user that rather waits a week) but I was still very much looking forward to release day and read all the responses. Installation experiences of other users and reviews by tech sites. There doesn't seem to be so much 'buzz' this time. I'm still excited but don't see it around me in the Ubuntu/Linux scene. Maybe this is also a sign how far Ubuntu has come, improvements are taken for granted.

---

### Post by mamamia88 on 2013-10-16
> **mörgæs said:**
> People are probably realising that if they have the choice they should wait at least a couple of weeks, maybe a month after the official release before installing (unless the old system is dead or dying, which makes it worthwhile to take the chance).

Heck I switched over to arch because 5 minutes maintenance after a full system upgrade occassionally is better than a huge upgrade  every 6 months imo.   Not to mention that ppas have to specify a ubuntu release and most aren't ready right away at release time.  All this could be fixed by using lts but i'm a sucker for the newest stuff

---

### Post by sammiev on 2013-10-16
Bring on 14.04 time for more breakage! :)

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2013-10-17
> **Euroman said:**
> True, but I think it's more than that. I never installed on release day (I am the type of user that rather waits a week) but I was still very much looking forward to release day and read all the responses. Installation experiences of other users and reviews by tech sites. There doesn't seem to be so much 'buzz' this time. I'm still excited but don't see it around me in the Ubuntu/Linux scene. Maybe this is also a sign how far Ubuntu has come, improvements are taken for granted.
[OMG Ubuntu]("http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk") often seems to be the place for "buzz". Give it a day or so ;)

Another type of "buzz" is here: [http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/10/ubuntu-phone-ringtones](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/10/ubuntu-phone-ringtones)

---

### Post by Q7JEscD on 2013-10-17
Well, I can't wait for the new apache and better SSL support!

---

### Post by georgelappies on 2013-10-17
it is here: 

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/saucy/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/saucy/)

---

### Post by ||0BL1v10N|| on 2013-10-24
So far so good! Some minor hiccups but running fine on 64bit! :)

---

