---
title: "Xbox 360"
date: 2012-05-16
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Tombradyhasamachinehead on 2012-05-16
who here has an xbox 360 even though they hate Microsoft? I hate microsoft but i have a 360 mainly because all my friends have one, and also xfinity ondemand. The wii is crap, and I have a ps3, that has been in my closet for 2 years now.

---

### Post by KiwiNZ on 2012-05-16
I hate Brocollli, Brussel Sprouts and Asparagus, I don't hate companies.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-05-16
I had a Wii, and a 360. When I got the Kinect for the 360, I looked at it as a replacement for the Wii, so we sold our Wii. I had 100x more fun on the Wii than I ever had on the 360, Kinect or not. I can't hardly wait for the Wii U to come out.

---

### Post by BrokenKingpin on 2012-05-16
I did, until it got the red ring death 5 times and I finally gave up (didn't even play it that much). Now I have a ps3.

---

### Post by uRock on 2012-05-16
I don't have an Xbox, nor do I hate Microsoft. Their products are great tools for those who need them.:p

---

### Post by TheMTtakeover on 2012-05-16
> **BrokenKingpin said:**
> I did, until it got the red ring death 5 times and I finally gave up (didn't even play it that much). Now I have a ps3.

Only 5 times? consider yourself lucky. =P

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-05-17
2 Xbox's, 2 PS3's, no Wii's. 

The PS3's are essentially Blu-ray players that also play some games; every time i turn one on, it has to do some kind of massive update, either for the XMB itself, or for the game i want to play. By the time whatever update has finished, i've lost the will to live, let alone play a videogame!  :D

I don't mind Microsoft at all - they've made a very successful business out of what they do. I only have Ubuntu because the PC that i built and bought as part of my computer course had no OS on it. I've since installed XP Pro on the PC along with Ubuntu, but i boot to Ubuntu almost every time. I've really grown to love Ubuntu, it's very customisable, but possibly a bit beyond the Average Joe. As i say though, nothing against Microsoft at all really.

The online aspect of the XBox blows the PS3 into the weeds. It's stable and very user-friendly.

I only ever had one RRoD for each of my original XBoxes. They came out in 2006 here, and 2 weeks away getting repaired for each, out of some 6 years, doesn't seem too bad to me. Microsoft did extend the warranty for the RRoD to 3 years.

---

### Post by aaaantoine on 2012-05-17
I have an Xbox 360.

I've given it some thought, As it turns out, my only beef with Microsoft these days is that their OS costs money.

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-05-17
What?!?! You mean you're not all bent out of shape that you have to pay for Xbox Live?!?! Shock horror!!  :D

Not a dig at you aaaaantoine, more just the fanboys who say "Oh teh PS3 is better because the online is free". In that case, you do definitely get what you pay for.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-05-17
> **BrokenKingpin said:**
> I did, until it got the red ring death 5 times and I finally gave up (didn't even play it that much). Now I have a ps3.They took care of that problem in their hardware a long time ago. My original keeled over on me, but I got one that was the old style model right before the black ones came out, and haven't had any trouble out of it at all. My original 360 was one of the early ones that didn't even have HDMI.

> **Face-Ache said:**
> What?!?! You mean you're not all bent out of shape that you have to pay for Xbox Live?!?! Shock horror!!  :D
I don't mind that they have a subscription based service. But what I *do* mind is that you have to pay for their subscription based service to be able to use your other subscription based services, like Netflix. I shouldn't have to pay twice for Netflix.

---

### Post by DingusFett on 2012-05-17
I've got one sitting in the corner gathering dust. This is my third one, the first two RRoD'd and wouldn't come back, then this one stopped reading disks so I gave up on the things.

---

### Post by squilookle on 2012-05-17
I don't hate Microsoft. They're a company built up of many different departments and they may do things that are downright evil, but there are other parts of MS that do really good things. I'm sure the majority of the staff there work hard, enjoy what they do, don't want to rip anyone off and get as angry at the company when they do something wrong as the rest of us. 

The XBox 360 is a great console and I enjoy playing on mine. It also plays Netflix on the TV in my living room. 

The Wii is not crap but it is what it is - a cheap games console that focused more on bringing new gamers in than it did on being the most powerful, or on becoming a Media centre. It is more than 5 years old and does look rough around the edges, but it had some awesome games out for it: New SMB, Mario Kart, DKC Returns, No More Heroes, Tatsunoko Verses Capcom, Conduit, and thats just the tip of the iceberg. With no new games coming out that interest me, mine is currently connected to my television upstairs and is enjoying a second life as my Netflix machine there, although I play games on it every now and then. 

I don't have a PS3 but I'm considering picking up a cheap one soon as there are some games on there I would like to play.

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-05-17
I have an X-Box... haven't played anything on it in ages which is odd because I have really enjoyed it.


404

PS - But now Diablo 3 is almost finished installing so there won't be enough time for anything else now for some time to come :D

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-05-17
So i mentioned i've got a couple of Xbox 360's, a couple of PS3's, but also an Xbox 1, a PS2; some people think that's a bit extreme .....

But you ain't seen nothing until you've seen this guys console collection - now *that* is extreme (1 point for each console you can name/identify);

---

### Post by KiwiNZ on 2012-05-17
> **Face-Ache said:**
> So i mentioned i've got a couple of Xbox 360's, a couple of PS3's, but also an Xbox 1, a PS2; some people think that's a bit extreme .....

But you ain't seen nothing until you've seen this guys console collection - now *that* is extreme (1 point for each console you can name/identify);

That looks familiar:-\"

We have a Wii, Xbox 360, PS3, PS2.....

---

### Post by mamamia88 on 2012-05-17
I have a 360 and I really enjoy it.   Play fifa 12 pretty much every night and just rented max payne 3 from red box and it's pretty sweet

---

### Post by BrokenKingpin on 2012-05-18
> **forrestcupp said:**
> They took care of that problem in their hardware a long time ago. My original keeled over on me, but I got one that was the old style model right before the black ones came out, and haven't had any trouble out of it at all. My original 360 was one of the early ones that didn't even have HDMI.

The new black ones are fixed, but all the ones prior to that have the issue. You just happened to get lucky with yours.

---

### Post by Kentucky88 on 2012-05-18
I don't hate Microsoft, I just don't think some of their ideas really deserve a patent.  They sue other companies for infringement and try to intimidate others to pay royalties for using Linux.  However, I must admit that their current Windows 7 OS has been very stable for me.  Much more stable than the current Linux Mint 12 OS that I am using with Gnome 3.  Also, the Java performance is a bit better in Windows 7 compared to Ubuntu (comparing Oracle Java to Oracle Java...I know OpenJDK is slower).  I've observed this personally and there's some guy on youtube that tries to debunk Linux performance myths.  And certainly flash runs better on Windows.  It kinda makes sense, developers will invest more time on optimizing the platform that 80% of people use.  

I do think XBox is the best console and I'm also very happy with my Microsoft Ergo keyboard way back from the late 90s.  So overall, MS not all bad.  I just would not want to work for them.

---

### Post by BigSilly on 2012-05-18
> **Face-Ache said:**
> So i mentioned i've got a couple of Xbox 360's, a couple of PS3's, but also an Xbox 1, a PS2; some people think that's a bit extreme .....

But you ain't seen nothing until you've seen this guys console collection - now *that* is extreme (1 point for each console you can name/identify);

Fiddy fan! Ha! You need to see [this]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CGC8fO8uAOA"). I can't believe this game ever got made. I love Brooker though.

---

### Post by BigCityCat on 2012-05-18
I love my xbox 360. I don't play video games very much but I use it as my music player and for watching movies. It runs through my tv into my stereo and it sounds great. I can access all my videos and music off my laptop while using Ubuntu (rigel)or Windows (media center). The only problem I have is my internet speed isn't high enough to take advantage of downloading movies and stuff.

All though lately I have been using Pandora on my directv dvr. That is working great. I think the xbox needs a pandora app.

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-05-18
> **BigSilly said:**
> Fiddy fan! Ha! You need to see [this]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CGC8fO8uAOA"). I can't believe this game ever got made. I love Brooker though.

Nah i'm not really a Fiddy fan. That was just me poking fun at myself for finally getting to 50 posts/beans  :D  

It might just be me, but i thought the game looked alright!! I'd never play it tho; too much more totally awesome stuff to bother with mediocre titles. Funny review though. Few swears in it, so mind you don't get in trouble for linking to it.

The 360 *is* a great Media Player, but it's a shame it doesn't have Blu-ray, that's the only reason that i have the PS3's really.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-05-19
I've had a Wii for a few years now. I used to have a PS3 which I bought to play Red Dead Redemption, but I've sold it now because I was playing the Wii more.

I also have a 3DS.

The Wii is a pretty good console. It's quiet, doesn't take up much space, has quite a few good games and the games are almost always cheaper than on the HD consoles. The motion controls work well on most games, and literally every game on the Wii has motion controls baked-in. Whereas, on the PS3 the motion controls are a bit of an afterthought and on the 360 the motion control simply isn't fast or accurate enough, and/or is used entirely for gimmicky purposes.

You'll notice Red Dead Redemption came out on 360 and PS3; the friend who told me about the game had a 360. So why did I buy the PS3 instead? Well, it's simply because I didn't want to buy a Microsoft console. And partly because I knew of the RRoD, but mostly because I'd rather avoid giving any money to Microsoft.

---

### Post by na5h on 2012-05-19
I don't hate Microsoft...they actually do have plenty of decent products and services, even though IE9 is arguably the WORST piece of software that I've ever laid my hands on. That said, I enjoy my Xbox 360 (old model) even though I had to send it in for repairs once after having experienced the red ring of death.

I've never really liked the standard controller of the PlayStation, and being a Halo fan and all, the Xbox is my natural console of choice!

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-05-19
I dunno about 3rdalbums post; to my mind, Sony are just as arrogant an organisation as Microsoft really. For me, the XBox's user-friendliness is much better than the PS3; smaller, quicker updates. Cross game messaging. Being able to Party up with friends. A much more stable online aspect.

I can also understand where na5h is coming from. Essentially, the PS3 controller hasn't changed in 15 years. Feels small and inconsequential to me these days.

Sorry 3rdalbum, i'm not wanting to start an argument here, rather just offer a different perspective.

Why the Microsoft hate?

To me, they were the industry game-changers; largely responsible for most households having a PC these days. But i admit that they are a company, a business designed to make money. They're not a philanthropic organisation, but then not many businesses are.

Kinda like all the hyperbole about Steve Jobs - i just didn't get all the gushing after his death. Sure, he had some innovative products, some shiny gadgets that worked pretty well for the most part. But a visionary? An icon? A shrewd business man, for sure though.

---

### Post by bruno9779 on 2012-05-19
> **KiwiNZ said:**
> I hate Brocollli, Brussel Sprouts and Asparagus, I don't hate companies.

Broccoli, brussel sprouts and asparagus are good for your health.
Most companies very hardly so.

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-05-19
Oh dunno about that. Those dudes behind Zumba .....  that's got to be good for your health, right?  :p

---

### Post by HansKisaragi on 2012-05-19
I have a Xbox 360, PS3,PS2, PS1, Wii, 3ds and 2x PSPs.. also a old nes and a old amiga 500.. used to have a old xbox and an atari as well but they both broke after many years of use.

While I dislike windows.. Microsoft does a lot of good things.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-05-19
> **BrokenKingpin said:**
> The new black ones are fixed, but all the ones prior to that have the issue. You just happened to get lucky with yours.

I bought mine right before the black ones came out, and I researched things. The ones right before the black ones had the Jasper chipset that greatly reduced the chances of overheating and getting a RRoD. The black ones are even better, but the ones right before that were a lot better than the previous ones with a much lower rate of failure.

---

### Post by HansKisaragi on 2012-05-19
I have had 5 xbox 360s between the release of 360 to now. (EU Pro, EU Elite, NA Elite, NA Slim and EU Slim.

only the launch model did ever die with RROD after 1 year use.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-05-20
> **Face-Ache said:**
> I dunno about 3rdalbums post; to my mind, Sony are just as arrogant an organisation as Microsoft really.

Sony is not an ideal company by any means. However, they've occasionally pointed themselves in the right direction. Their MP3 players are compatible with Linux - Microsoft's never were. They did allow Linux to be booted on PS3s, and although they removed that functionality it's something Microsoft has never allowed. Sony's TVs use Linux as a base operating system, and of course their smartphones, tablets and some of their MP3 players use Android. That's more than you can say for Microsoft.

> I can also understand where na5h is coming from. Essentially, the PS3 controller hasn't changed in 15 years. Feels small and inconsequential to me these days.

I can't comment on the 360s controller as I've never wrapped my hands around one, but the Playstation controllers have always felt comfortable to me and I didn't have any problems with control or layout when I had my PS3. If it works well, and gamers have been familiar with it for the past 15 years, then it might be worthwhile sticking with it until it no longer works well.

> Sorry 3rdalbum, i'm not wanting to start an argument here, rather just offer a different perspective.

That's fine, I'm not passionate enough about Sony or the PS3 to really care. If I was, I wouldn't have sold mine :-)  Also you didn't say anything rude or insulting, you're cool.

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-05-20
> **3rdalbum said:**
> ......... That's more than you can say for Microsoft.

That's a fair observation/criticism.

> **3rdalbum said:**
> 
I can't comment on the 360s controller as I've never wrapped my hands around one, but the Playstation controllers have always felt comfortable to me and I didn't have any problems with control or layout when I had my PS3. If it works well, and gamers have been familiar with it for the past 15 years, then it might be worthwhile sticking with it until it no longer works well.

To a certain extent, that's a situation of "you don't know what you don't know"; i think that once you've tried the Xbox 360 controller, you realise what you've been missing. If you don't know what you've been missing, *you don't know what you've been missing!*  Hehehe.

Anecdotally, from what i can gather, the Xbox 360 controller generally seems to be regarded as the best console controller ever.

But if the PS3 controller works for you, and you're happy with it, that's a good thing.

At least Sony didn't end up going with this monstrosity for the PS3;
[http://www.ps3vault.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/03/controller.jpg](http://www.ps3vault.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/03/controller.jpg)

:)

> **3rdalbum said:**
> That's fine, I'm not passionate enough about Sony or the PS3 to really care. If I was, I wouldn't have sold mine :-)  Also you didn't say anything rude or insulting, you're cool.

:D

---

### Post by doorknob60 on 2012-05-21
The biggest problem I have with the 360 is the pay for Live service. I'm fine with them doing it, but I personally can't justify the cost of it if I had one. I wouldn't want to have an Xbox without Live, but I don't think I'd use it enough to justify the cost. I have a PS3 and haven't played online in a few months, but I always want it to be an option. Plus annoying things like using proprietary ports and stuff for everything, so hard drivers are expensive, Controllers use non standard cords (though at least one ends is USB, but not Mini USB on the other end), just random stuff like that. It's a good system, but not really for me. I'm a Nintendo fanboy, so I use my Wii more than anything, even though it's far inferior technologically speaking.

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-05-21
Theres pro's and con's with every console, and i think that ultimately you just have to go with what works for you, and what you enjoy the most.

I can see there being little value in paying for a service like Xbox Live if you don't game online that much. When you do play online frequently, these pro's that i mentioned earlier are, for me anyway, worth paying for.

I have to say, it's nice to have a respectful discussion about consoles, rather than a full-blown war. I know that when i get sucked into a console-flame-fest, it often causes me to dig my heels in, and become a biased and unbalanced fanboy. And really don't want to be that guy :)

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-05-21
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Sony is not an ideal company by any means. However, they've occasionally pointed themselves in the right direction. Their MP3 players are compatible with Linux - Microsoft's never were. They did allow Linux to be booted on PS3s, and although they removed that functionality it's something Microsoft has never allowed. Sony's TVs use Linux as a base operating system, and of course their smartphones, tablets and some of their MP3 players use Android. That's more than you can say for Microsoft.

When I buy a game console, whether or not you can install Linux on it is not one of my top priorities. :)

It's about the games. If you like Zelda and Mario, you go with Nintendo. If just have to play the latest Halo game, you get an Xbox. If what you like is 3rd party shovelware, and you need a Blu-ray player that is controlled by a gamepad, you get a PS3. :)

---

### Post by Lucradia on 2012-05-21
Only reason I'd get a 360, is to play Tales of Vesperia. That's it. Since Bamco ported Eternal Sonata to PS3, and Squeenix ported Star ocean: The Last Hope to PS3.

---

### Post by rasmus91 on 2012-05-23
I don't care for the X-Box. I dont own any of the consoles, but i've played a lot of hours on both, and from my experience the X-Box has more graphical flaws and other kinds of annoying bugs. 

everything with Sony is expensive, but at least it works. I am not a fanboy, i will openly admit that PS has its flaws, but put it this way: if both were houses the PS would be a big, awesome beach house.
So would the X-Box be, but it would have a lot of leaks and other annoying stuff you'd have to deal with and try to fix all the time. not to mention the annyoing neighbours yelling stuff at you all the time, and the attempts on awesome features that really aren't as awesome as everyone says. like kinect.

but then again, this is my experience. i get why people tend to like the X-Box (the price) because im a cheap guy myself when it comes to buying hardware. 

But I have a real powerhouse PC, and i do not feel the need for a console and all of its limitations, and before anyone goes into saying something about joypads and stuff, i would like to say that i can just hook that up to my PC.

---

### Post by xXQuadPolarXx on 2012-05-24
I have XBox 360 its my 2nd box as my Elite over heated & gave up on life... Now I have a slim which over heats just as bad if not worse but in any case I love Xbox, and I love Windows also but I currently use Ubuntu because I also like it...

I don't hate companies as one of the mods said here. To each their own, if I don't like something I generally just avoid it.

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-05-24
I find my experience with the Xbox to be conversely opposite that of Rasmus. It'd be fair to say that aside from 1st party games, most games that get developed for both Xbox and PS3 get developed on the Xbox first. That was due to Xbox SDK's being made available to developers over a year before Sony made theirs available.

Developers were simply more versed in the Xbox architecture than they were that of the PS3. So developed on the Xbox, and ported to the PS3 - this means they're not optimised for the PS3, hence more issues, graphical and otherwise. Take the original Assassins Creed for example, it was quite washed out looking on the PS3, compared to the Xbox.

I also think you have to take the whole experience into account, and there's a reason the Playstation Network is free. The functionality of the Xbox Live ecosystem just blows the PSN out of the water.

I also note that whenever i turn one the PS3's on, there's a massive update to download, either for the game i'm playing, or for the operating system itself. Have a look on YouTube for Ragequit's Resistance 3 experience - some fairly heavy swearing in it mind, but it's a good example of what i'm talking about.

Kinect hasn't been as awesome or as accurate as it was made out to be, for sure. But i've got 24 nieces and nephews, and i have to say, whenever they visit, Kinect gets a major workout - they love it. Personally, i'm a lazy bugger, so i could take it or leave it. But again, comparing it to Playstation Move ..... i know which i prefer!  *shrug*

I started out on the Playstation, was quite the fanboy to be honest. But having used both machines extensively, the whole Playstation experience seems so lackluster compared to the XBox infrastructure.

Rasmus, have you spent any time with a fully connected and 'online' Xbox 360? I think you'd find the experience to be a lot better than your initial impression  :)

---

### Post by mips on 2012-05-24
> **forrestcupp said:**
> 
**It's about the games.** If you like Zelda and Mario, you go with Nintendo. If just have to play the latest Halo game, you get an Xbox. If what you like is 3rd party shovelware, and you need a Blu-ray player that is controlled by a gamepad, you get a PS3. :)

This ^^

If I had to get a console it would be a PS3 purely based on exclusive titles like Uncharted, GT5 etc.

---

### Post by samuele.mattiuzzo on 2012-05-24
got a 360 too, mainly because of the kinect sensor (never been a console gamer before) and since a lot of my friends have it, made a Gold Pass and i'm currently playing with it...

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-05-24
> **rasmus91 said:**
> 
But I have a real powerhouse PC, and i do not feel the need for a console and all of its limitations, and before anyone goes into saying something about joypads and stuff, i would like to say that i can just hook that up to my PC.

Yeah, but is it really worth it if you have to sit in a desk chair and stare at a monitor? If you have it hooked to an HDTV, then I could understand it. But I'd rather sit in my recliner and play games on my big screen than sit in a desk chair and stare at a monitor.

---

### Post by samuele.mattiuzzo on 2012-05-24
> **forrestcupp said:**
> Yeah, but is it really worth it if you have to sit in a desk chair and stare at a monitor? If you have it hooked to an HDTV, then I could understand it. But I'd rather sit in my recliner and play games on my big screen than sit in a desk chair and stare at a monitor.

I think that the point is more "i can play while on the sofa with my joypad", while you can't with keyboard+mouse without a proper surface under them. Monitor/HDTV nowadays are interchangeable (don't have an hdtv, for example, but i'm using a led 27'' monitor in my flat and a nice audio system hooked up to both my xbox and laptop)

---

### Post by Swagman on 2012-05-24
Time to forget about the Xbox as it's going to be an

[**EX**-Box](http://www.tomsguide.com/us/Xbox-Banned-Import-Ban-Motorola-Patent-Suit-ITC-Ban,news-15334.html)


> 
Microsoft was today dealt a massive blow in its patent suit against Motorola as a U.S. judge recommended that the company's popular Xbox 360 console be banned from the United States. The suggestion comes following the discovery that Microsoft's Xbox controllers infringe upon several Motorola-owned patents relating to wireless technology. 


Eton Roar time !!

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-05-24
> **Swagman said:**
> Time to forget about the Xbox as it's going to be an

[**EX**-Box](http://www.tomsguide.com/us/Xbox-Banned-Import-Ban-Motorola-Patent-Suit-ITC-Ban,news-15334.html)





Eton Roar time !!

> During this period, it will be up to President Obama to either sign-off or overturn the commission's decision.This is a joke, right?

---

### Post by aaaantoine on 2012-05-24
> **Face-Ache said:**
> That's a fair observation/criticism.
To a certain extent, that's a situation of "you don't know what you don't know"; i think that once you've tried the Xbox 360 controller, you realise what you've been missing. If you don't know what you've been missing, *you don't know what you've been missing!*  Hehehe.

Anecdotally, from what i can gather, the Xbox 360 controller generally seems to be regarded as the best console controller ever.


I disagree on the grounds that the D-pad is a clumsy slab of plastic.

Side note, I'm waiting for one of the big consoles to replace the right analog stick with a track ball.  I believe that lack of high-speed pointing is the biggest drawback vs. keyboard-and-mouse when it comes to first-person shooters.

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-05-24
About the D-pad, again, that's a fair comment. For me though, i'm not really a big player of fighting games, so it's never really been an issue. Microsoft have released a new revised controller with the a redesign of the Dpad, which i understand is much better than the previous design.

I think a trackball instead of a the right stick would be a great idea. 

I don't think there'd be any judge who'd uphold the banning of the Xbox 360, particularly in the US, and certainly not this far into it's life-cycle. Just seems like Motorola 'trying it on'. And it's not like Microsoft don't have the resources to legally fight against such a decision. I predict that this will be nothing more than a storm in a teacup  :)

---

### Post by mamamia88 on 2012-05-24
> **forrestcupp said:**
> Yeah, but is it really worth it if you have to sit in a desk chair and stare at a monitor? If you have it hooked to an HDTV, then I could understand it. But I'd rather sit in my recliner and play games on my big screen than sit in a desk chair and stare at a monitor.

Gaming PC with windows that can play all games on full will cost you what?   An xbox 360 starts at what $300 nowadays?    Games go on sale all the time and you can sell them when you are done.   On top of that you don't have to do any extra configuration to get the controller setup correctly before playing your game.   For me personally I would rather just come home from work, grab a beer, and sit back in my recliner and play.      Also I'm not forced to use windows and I save a lot of money on the hardware because what i use my computer for i really don't need much.

---

### Post by na5h on 2012-05-25
> **Face-Ache said:**
> About the D-pad, again, that's a fair comment. For me though, i'm not really a big player of fighting games, so it's never really been an issue.

The arcade stick would be nice for Street Fighter IV! Haven't really seen them around, though...

---

### Post by Lucradia on 2012-05-25
> **forrestcupp said:**
> This is a joke, right?

[Nope.avi]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvdf5n-zI14")

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-05-25
> **aaaantoine said:**
> 
Side note, I'm waiting for one of the big consoles to replace the right analog stick with a track ball.  I believe that lack of high-speed pointing is the biggest drawback vs. keyboard-and-mouse when it comes to first-person shooters.That's actually a great idea.

> **mamamia88 said:**
> Gaming PC with windows that can play all games on full will cost you what?   An xbox 360 starts at what $300 nowadays?    Games go on sale all the time and you can sell them when you are done.   On top of that you don't have to do any extra configuration to get the controller setup correctly before playing your game.   For me personally I would rather just come home from work, grab a beer, and sit back in my recliner and play.      Also I'm not forced to use windows and I save a lot of money on the hardware because what i use my computer for i really don't need much.Exactly! I used to be a believer in PC gaming until I got a Wii and 360. Then I realized how much easier it is to play good games on machines that are specifically made for that. If you buy a game for a 360, you just know it's going to work without having to read the minimum requirements and lower the settings for your hardware.

> **Lucradia said:**
> [Nope.avi]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvdf5n-zI14")So President Obama has nothing better to do than sign off on whether or not the Xbox 360 should be banned when it's already at the end of its life, anyway?

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-05-26
> **forrestcupp said:**
> Exactly! I used to be a believer in PC gaming until I got a Wii and 360. Then I realized how much easier it is to play good games on machines that are specifically made for that. If you buy a game for a 360, you just know it's going to work without having to read the minimum requirements and lower the settings for your hardware.

I feel the same way.

I don't want to take anything away from PC gaming, as a good rig will kick the butt of anything on any of the consoles, graphically anyway. And genres like RTS and FPS will always have a more refined control mechanism on PC.

Whilst i got out of PC gaming a long time ago, probably around 1996, the same reasons for leaving it behind are still valid today (IMHO, and for my particular skill set); hardware requirements, getting the correct configuration, and having to constantly update components to keep up with the latest game.

I'll never forget saving my pocket-money/allowance for months, and then finally rushing home with a copy of Janes Apache AH64A Helicopter Simulator, only to spend the next 12 hours trying to get it to run,...... and failing only to take the game back to the store (which you were allowed to do back in those days, back when PC's were coal-fired).

I started console gaming with the Playstation 1 and Nintendo 64, and haven't looked back since really.

I also like sitting on the couch looking at a massive high-def projector as my gaming display, rather than being at a desk, 2 feet away from the monitor  :D

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-05-26
> **aaaantoine said:**
> I disagree on the grounds that the D-pad is a clumsy slab of plastic.

Side note, I'm waiting for one of the big consoles to replace the right analog stick with a track ball.  I believe that lack of high-speed pointing is the biggest drawback vs. keyboard-and-mouse when it comes to first-person shooters.

Patent this immediately, and then sell the rights to use the "technology" to Microsoft or Sony. They'd be fools not to see the benefits for FPS games.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-05-26
> **Face-Ache said:**
> 
Whilst i got out of PC gaming a long time ago, probably around 1996, the same reasons for leaving it behind are still valid today (IMHO, and for my particular skill set); hardware requirements, getting the correct configuration, and having to constantly update components to keep up with the latest game.

I'll never forget saving my pocket-money/allowance for months, and then finally rushing home with a copy of Janes Apache AH64A Helicopter Simulator, only to spend the next 12 hours trying to get it to run,...... and failing only to take the game back to the store (which you were allowed to do back in those days, back when PC's were coal-fired).Back in the mid-90's there used to be a store around where I lived, called Elek-Tek. I was there once a week, at the very least. I lived on my own, but I spent every extra dollar on hardware upgrades, and I maxed out my Elek-Tek store card. That was back when computers were barely starting to catch up with the N64, graphically. It wasn't until after I got married in 2000 that I was finally whipped into shape and paid that card off. :)

Those were the good *and* bad old days.

> **3rdalbum said:**
> Patent this immediately, and then sell the rights to use the "technology" to Microsoft or Sony. They'd be fools not to see the benefits for FPS games.I agree. That's one of the best ideas I've heard for a gamepad in a long time. Why hasn't anyone come up with this yet? They're so focused on motion technology, but there's no reason you couldn't have both.

---

### Post by mips on 2012-05-26
> **forrestcupp said:**
> It wasn't until after I got married in 2000 that I was finally whipped into shape and paid that card off. :)

One thing I notice about you guys over there is everybody seems to live on credit and loving it?

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-05-26
> **mips said:**
> One thing I notice about you guys over there is everybody seems to live on credit and loving it?

No, not loving it. I was depressed at the time, and the way I dealt with it was to spend money for temporary pleasure and relief. After the depression was gone, I was stuck with a lot of credit card debt. The only debt I have now is my home mortgage and two vehicle loans, which is pretty much accepted as necessary for most people.

---

