---
title: "K3B 1.0 released"
date: 2007-03-16
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by tbroderick on 2007-03-16
"I am proud to announce the release of K3b 1.0. After years and years of development, all the sweat (actually in the summer it can get sticky in front of the screen), all the tears (ok, admittedly, not that many), and all the countless hours I spent on a single application finally we have what I think is worth the big 1."

[http://k3b.plainblack.com/k3b-news/k3b-1.0-announcement](http://k3b.plainblack.com/k3b-news/k3b-1.0-announcement)

Congratulations to the K3B developers.

---

### Post by maniacmusician on 2007-03-16
> **tbroderick said:**
> "I am proud to announce the release of K3b 1.0. After years and years of development, all the sweat (actually in the summer it can get sticky in front of the screen), all the tears (ok, admittedly, not that many), and all the countless hours I spent on a single application finally we have what I think is worth the big 1."

[http://k3b.plainblack.com/k3b-news/k3b-1.0-announcement](http://k3b.plainblack.com/k3b-news/k3b-1.0-announcement)

Congratulations to the K3B developers.
sounds great. Bad timing though, just missed Feisty.

---

### Post by Bloodfen Razormaw on 2007-03-16
One less case of "I gave my product's 17th release the version number 0.0.0.1.2" to get on my nerves. :)

---

### Post by mips on 2007-03-16
> **maniacmusician said:**
> sounds great. Bad timing though, just missed Feisty.

I'm sure a .deb will be out soon.

Must say it is one of the best 'linux' products I've used. good job to the Devs.

---

### Post by Ruthenium on 2007-03-16
Great program, I'm looking forward to install it, too bad it would have been great for Feisty.

---

### Post by samir85 on 2007-03-16
> **maniacmusician said:**
> sounds great. Bad timing though, just missed Feisty.

Actually, I think it will be includet in Feisty.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KubuntuApps](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KubuntuApps)

---

### Post by Ruthenium on 2007-03-16
Wooow this would be great, thanks for the info. There's even a .deb on the website but I prefer to wait for an update though.

---

### Post by maniacmusician on 2007-03-16
> **samir85 said:**
> Actually, I think it will be includet in Feisty.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KubuntuApps](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KubuntuApps)
Good news

---

### Post by Softpedia on 2007-03-16
Here are some screenshots of K3b 1.0 compiled on Ubuntu Edgy with KDE 3.5.6:

[http://news.softpedia.com/news/It-039-s-a-Bird-It-039-s-a-Plane-It-039-s-K3b-1-0-Final-49651.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/It-039-s-a-Bird-It-039-s-a-Plane-It-039-s-K3b-1-0-Final-49651.shtml)

Enjoy!

P.S.: Of course it will be on Feisty guys :popcorn:

---

### Post by fuscia on 2007-03-16
k3b is only a 1.0? damn!

---

### Post by BarfBag on 2007-03-16
> **fuscia said:**
> k3b is only a 1.0? damn!

My thoughts exactly.  o_O

---

### Post by zubrug on 2007-03-16
definately one of the best, looking forward to it, thanks.

---

### Post by machoo02 on 2007-03-16
> **mips said:**
> Must say it is one of the best 'linux' products I've used. good job to the Devs.

My sentiments exactly...I recently switched over from using KDE to Gnome, and this was one of the apps that I could not stand to be without.

---

### Post by Polygon on 2007-03-16
actually, if they really want to, the k3b developers or someone standing in for them can request for the freeze to be lifted so that application can be updated, but it has to be approved first.

and different programs have different version numbers. Ubuntu for example goes by date.... and a lot of programs go up by small numbers, so there could of been like a thousand k3b releases... so they went like .264, .999 all the way up to 1 or something (although is most likely not the case =P)

---

### Post by metalkr on 2007-03-19
i like K3b and i hope the backport for edgy soon.

---

### Post by mips on 2007-03-19
I now have v1.0 installed. You gotto love portage/emerge ;)

---

### Post by disturbedite on 2007-03-19
> **mips said:**
> I now have v1.0 installed. You gotto love portage/emerge ;)
or the packages (i386) listed on the page Ruthenium mentioned...lol

---

### Post by termite on 2007-03-20
anyone got edgy debs anywhere?

---

### Post by disturbedite on 2007-03-20
there shouldn't be much of a difference between the edgy and feisty packages should there?  it couldn't hurt to try.  maybe its just the dependencies, in that case you may or may not be able to use the feisty package.

---

### Post by termite on 2007-03-20
the feisty packages depend on lots of feisty stuff (major stuff, like libc).

---

### Post by Erik Trybom on 2007-03-20
Congratulations!

K3b is an excellent piece of software. It's one of the true KDE killer apps that you just have to get even if you're using another DE.

Keep on rocking!

---

