---
title: "2.5&quot; (AKA Laptop) hard drives..."
date: 2009-12-24
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Gizenshya on 2009-12-24
I'm considering buying a 2.5" hard drive in the near future.  I just want to know where my fellow Ubuntuers stand on 2.5" hard drive manufacturers.

What I mean by favorite is whatever you define it as, and explain your reasons and experience if you would :)

Also, if you mean only a specific line from the manufacturer, please specify that as well.

---

### Post by koleoptero on 2009-12-24
I have never had problems with western digital hard drives, whereas I had problems with an ibm and a seagate drive. So I voted for western digital.

---

### Post by Warpnow on 2009-12-25
Seagate has a 5 year warranty whereas most have 3.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-12-25
If it's going to sit on a desk in an external case, or if it's going to sit inside your desktop computer case, then don't bother with 2.5 inches - get a 3.5 inch drive. Cheaper and cheaper-per-gigabyte. And faster. And more reliable.

I don't even really approve of 2.5 inch drives for portable hard disks anymore, a friend's just died after only a couple of months, and caused him to lose years worth of digital photos that he unwisely didn't back up.

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2009-12-25
I said Hitachi, but only because the one drive I have that I happen to like is a Hitachi. The others I didn't know what they were until I removed them from the box; they were packaged by a reseller. So it's like Christmas that way. ... :roll:

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2009-12-25
@ Gizenshya- what do you want the 2.5'' drive for? External backup, laptop use, or something else? 

Dont forget SSDs are 2.5'' (normally) as well.

> **Warpnow said:**
> Seagate has a 5 year warranty whereas most have 3.

Not anymore.....

[http://blogs.zdnet.com/hardware/?p=3188](http://blogs.zdnet.com/hardware/?p=3188)

Yep, thats just bare drives, but still, they have dropped the warranty period. Much to my disgust seagate took down its "warranty return matix" from its website, but honestly.....I'm biased because I dont trust newer seagate drives at all. They are pretty bad IMO. 

> **3rdalbum said:**
> If it's going to sit on a desk in an external case, or if it's going to sit inside your desktop computer case, then don't bother with 2.5 inches - get a 3.5 inch drive. Cheaper and cheaper-per-gigabyte. And faster. And more reliable.

I don't even really approve of 2.5 inch drives for portable hard disks anymore, a friend's just died after only a couple of months, and caused him to lose years worth of digital photos that he unwisely didn't back up.

If its external USB 2.0, then speed does not matter. Every drive you will find is faster than USB 2.0. If its eSATA, then  more speed is actually useable...for a backup drive, though, its still not important IMO.  

More reliable? Citation please. BTW, I tend to prefer the 3.5'' drives myself, I just would like to know if this is just an opinion. 

The bigger drivers are cheaper per-MB, but the 2.5'' drives are nice because you don't need an external powerbirck, they can be USB powered. No 3.5'' external drive I've seen can do that.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-12-25
> **cascade9 said:**
> If its external USB 2.0, then speed does not matter. Every drive you will find is faster than USB 2.0.

True; sorry I was a bit unclear, I accidentally implied that 3.5 inch drives are faster over USB.

> If its eSATA, then  more speed is actually useable...for a backup drive, though, its still not important IMO.

It's nice to have. I bought one of those hard disk docking stations because it had an eSATA connection.

> More reliable? Citation please.

I can't find a source online to back me up on this, but I remember reading that the bigger the hard disk, the more reliable. Those microdrives that were used in MP3 players had a much shorter MTBF (Mean Time Before Failure) than the 2.5inch hard drives, and the 2.5 inchers had shorter MTBF than the 3.5 inchers.

And don't forget that reported problem with Ubuntu being able to lessen the life of 2.5 inch hard disks in laptops just by using them.

> The bigger drivers are cheaper per-MB, but the 2.5'' drives are nice because you don't need an external powerbrick, they can be USB powered. No 3.5'' external drive I've seen can do that.

True there. I wish there were bus-powered 3.5 inch drives, it would make things easier when transporting a big capacity disk to a friend's house!

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2009-12-25
Never had problems with any of those, so I usually go with the cheapest.

---

### Post by Gizenshya on 2009-12-25
> **pwnst*r said:**
> ...you made me click on it  :( 

and yes, it's that bad.

If you use the information on the second link in just the right way, I assure you that it will make the first link far more entertaining  (or intriguing, depending).

The reason I'm getting a USB drive is two-fold:

1.  I already have plenty of 3.5" storage, and I want something portable that has more capacity than the current portable drives.

If I'm restoring from an image, the current drives I have are very limited.  If I'm making an image, they are even more limited, as thye are rarely big enough to actually hold an image.

Any data on the drive will be backed up elsewhere.

2.  The current 2.5" hard drives I have are ide-type (well, the mini ide), and none are SATA (I or II).  For troubleshooting and data recovery from 2.5" SATA laptops, I've wanted an external drive several times.  It is the only piece of hardware that I want that I don't really have yet.

I've used the 3.5" SATA external enclosures with 2.5" SATA drives, but it is annoying because the need of the external power block.

I might eventually use it as a main drive in a laptop, but I mainly want an SATA II drive with case (combo or seperate).

I've read manufacturers' articles about relative reliability of hard drives, and they all support that 3.5" hard drives are more reliable, or at least say that it requires much more effort to make 2.5" hard drives with similar longevity.

I wouldn't go by the MTBF as a reliable longevity measure.  Each company does its own tests to its own standards.  Though the idea is good, I think that the MTBF ratings are used for product placement, rather than as an accurate longevity measure.  By that I mean that they use them to make it clear which of their competitors' drives that any particular drive is directly competing with.

---

### Post by Cam42 on 2009-12-25
I just got a WD MyPassport 750GB portable drive, works just fine.

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2009-12-25
> **3rdalbum said:**
> It's nice to have. I bought one of those hard disk docking stations because it had an eSATA connection.

I can't find a source online to back me up on this, but I remember reading that the bigger the hard disk, the more reliable. Those microdrives that were used in MP3 players had a much shorter MTBF (Mean Time Before Failure) than the 2.5inch hard drives, and the 2.5 inchers had shorter MTBF than the 3.5 inchers.

And don't forget that reported problem with Ubuntu being able to lessen the life of 2.5 inch hard disks in laptops just by using them.

If its a USB docking station, you still have the same issue (that USB 2.0 bandwidth is low enough that you'll never even get close to max speed). But yeah, ESATA is nice to have, even then, if only so you can get an ESATA drive and use it on a future laptop/desktop/whatever. 

Media players were built to be cheap, not reliable. Its actually in the media player makers best intrest if they dont last too long. 

To be honest, I know nothing about ubuntu lessening the life of 2.5'' HDD just by using them. I pay little attention to laptops as I simply dont like the things for various reasons. 

> **Gizenshya said:**
> The reason I'm getting a USB drive is two-fold:

1.  I already have plenty of 3.5" storage, and I want something portable that has more capacity than the current portable drives.

If I'm restoring from an image, the current drives I have are very limited.  If I'm making an image, they are even more limited, as thye are rarely big enough to actually hold an image.

Any data on the drive will be backed up elsewhere.

By 'current portable drives' I assume you mean USB flash drives? They are getting huge, theres 256GB models around. Way to expensive at present, even 128GB flash drives are well over $300 US. That will continure to drop, but right now its not cost effective, even if they are nice, simple and easy.

> **Gizenshya said:**
> 2.  The current 2.5" hard drives I have are ide-type (well, the mini ide), and none are SATA (I or II).  For troubleshooting and data recovery from 2.5" SATA laptops, I've wanted an external drive several times.  It is the only piece of hardware that I want that I don't really have yet.

I've used the 3.5" SATA external enclosures with 2.5" SATA drives, but it is annoying because the need of the external power block.

I might eventually use it as a main drive in a laptop, but I mainly want an SATA II drive with case (combo or seperate).

It would need to be a really old 2.5'' HDD to be slower than USB 2.0 max speeds. Best I've seen is about 35Mb/sec,and 28-30MB/sec seems to be more the normal speed, so I really dont think that being old IDE drives is going to make stuff-all difference as far as speed goes compared to even a new SATA2 drive (but the old drives probably have quite a few hours on them by now, and thats got to be milldly worrying)

Understandable though if you are planning to possibly run it in a laptop in the future. 

> **Gizenshya said:**
> I've read manufacturers' articles about relative reliability of hard drives, and they all support that 3.5" hard drives are more reliable, or at least say that it requires much more effort to make 2.5" hard drives with similar longevity.

I wouldn't go by the MTBF as a reliable longevity measure.  Each company does its own tests to its own standards.  Though the idea is good, I think that the MTBF ratings are used for product placement, rather than as an accurate longevity measure.  By that I mean that they use them to make it clear which of their competitors' drives that any particular drive is directly competing with.

I'm not sure that all the manufacturers do MTBF tests to thier own standards. It should be a a stantard testing method, even if the way it is phrased can be a little misleading- 

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mean_time_between_failures](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mean_time_between_failures)

I'm wouldnt be 100% sure 2.5'' drives are more unreliable compared to 3.5''. For one thing, its not like its hard to get all the same stuff thats in a 3.5'' into a 2.5'' chassis. Also,  there are quite a few 'enterprise' level 2.5'' SAS drives . The people who buy that level HDD tend to expect long-term reliability. Half of seagates current enterprise range is 2.5''! 

[http://www.xbitlabs.com/articles/storage/display/25inch-sas-hdds.html](http://www.xbitlabs.com/articles/storage/display/25inch-sas-hdds.html)
[http://www.seagate.com/www/en-us/products/servers/](http://www.seagate.com/www/en-us/products/servers/)

I dubious about this, but it context, I have to put this in- 

> **Key Features and Benefits**

 
[LIST]
[*]70 percent smaller than 3.5-inch drives
[*]Snip!
[*]Savvio 10K and 15K drives have the highest reliability in the world.
[/LIST]
[http://www.seagate.com/www/en-us/products/servers/savvio/](http://www.seagate.com/www/en-us/products/servers/savvio/)

I agree on MTBF in some ways, but it (should at least) give you an idea of how long the drives last, even if its almost a 'pulled out of thin air' figure. That said, its interesting that of the Western digital range, the Velociraptor has the highest MTBF of any of the WD enterprise drive (yes, its a 3.5'' frame but its 2.5'' guts with spacer/heatsinks to make it bolt straight into a 3.5'' mount without an adapter) -

[http://www.westerndigital.com/en/library/2178-001010.pdf](http://www.westerndigital.com/en/library/2178-001010.pdf)

I would be looking for an ESATA/USB enclosure myself with your stated aims. I'd be having a very hard look before I bought one though, some of them need a power adapter (or at least a powered USB hub for power if your using ESATA)

[http://www.bigbruin.com/2008/mapesata_1](http://www.bigbruin.com/2008/mapesata_1)

BTW, even though I probably would get that one (put in for the reference to ESATA power) that test does show the difference between ESATA and USB speeds.

Edit- voted WesternDigital as I've seen quite a few 2.5'' WD drives (on USB) and haven't seen a problem yet. That being siad, I would probably rather have an 'enterprise' level seagate (or probably any other manufacturer for that matter) than a WD scorpio blue. Not that there is anythign wrong with that drive, but I have a lot more confidence in the higher level hdds and I do in entry level. You do tend to get what you pay for (but you'll pay a lot fo enterprise level compared, so I wouldnt want to pay for it unless I had a fair bit more money)

---

### Post by SuperSonic4 on 2009-12-25
Samsung - got 3 of them and none have failed.

The laptop is a WD and is working too

---

### Post by glósóli on 2011-06-03
Is it just my impression, or those tiny, huge (750GB / 1TB) has a lot of reliability problem?
reading from users reviews I just have this feeling.
I am planning to buy one big storage disk to use it as second drive directly on the laptop and then backup in a 3.5" from time to time, but since it will be mounted in the laptop, I don't want the drive to die every 2 months or so...

---

### Post by s.fox on 2011-06-03
Thread Necromancy.

Thread Closed.

---

