---
title: "Tiny wind engines cool computers"
date: 2007-08-15
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Sporkman on 2007-08-15
[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/6946042.stm](http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/6946042.stm)

> 
**Tiny wind engines cool computers**

Minuscule wind engines could help to take computing power to the next level, scientists believe.

US researchers have developed a prototype device that creates a "breeze" made up of charged particles, or ions, to cool computer chips.

The "ionic wind", the scientists say, will help to manage the heat generated by increasingly powerful, yet ever-shrinking devices.

The research is to be published in the Journal of Applied Physics.

As computers grow increasingly powerful, computer chips are becoming more and more densely packed with transistors, the basic building blocks of microprocessors. .

Timothy Fisher, associate professor of mechanical engineering at Purdue University and an author on the paper, said: "In computers and electronics, power equals heat, so we need to find ways to manage the heat generated in more powerful laptops and handheld computers."

Hot stuff

Conventional cooling technologies using fans are limited because they can suffer from air-flow problems. As the spinning blades waft air over a chip, the molecules nearest to the chip can get stuck and remain stationary, hindering the cooling effect.

But the new experimental wind engine employs a different strategy.

The prototype, which is attached to a mock computer chip, works by shifting charged particles from one end of the device to the other. As a voltage is applied to the ionic engine, positively charged particles (ions) are produced, and are dragged towards a negatively charged wire (a cathode), forcing constant air movement.

The researchers said that when it was used in conjunction with a conventional fan, air molecules, rather than getting stuck, were dragged across the chip's surface boosting cooling.

The team said the device increased the cooling rate from a conventional fan by up to 250%.

Professor Suresh Garimella, from Purdue University who is a co-author of the paper, said: "Other experimental cooling-enhancement approaches might give you a 40% or a 50% improvement.

"A 250% improvement is quite unusual."

The researchers now need to miniaturise their prototype, making it 100 times smaller than its current size, which is a few millimetres.

Professor Garimella said that this would be crucial for applying the technology to the latest computers and consumer electronics.

If miniaturisation is successful, the team expects the device to be introduced into products within the next three years.

The research is a collaboration between Purdue University, in Indiana, and chip-makers Intel.


---

### Post by aimran on 2007-08-15
You know pretty soon this could be the jet engine of the future.

---

### Post by Nunu on 2007-08-15
wouldn't surprise me if it was the propulsion system for future space craft

Live long and prosper

---

### Post by tigerpants on 2007-08-15
> **Nunu said:**
> wouldn't surprise me if it was the propulsion system for future space craft

Live long and prosper

You don't need to propel a ship through space. Once its slingshotted it'll go forever until it hits something or falls under something larges gravitational pull.  You only need to an engine to slow it down at destination.

---

### Post by mips on 2007-08-15
> **Nunu said:**
> wouldn't surprise me if it was the propulsion system for future space craft

Live long and prosper


It's already being used, [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ion_engines](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ion_engines)

---

### Post by Tundro Walker on 2007-08-15
Why can't they have an energy reclamation device that simply siphons off some of the heat to convert to energy to power or recharge the batteries with it?  I'm thinking along the lines of the braking systems eco-cars use, where the kinetic energy is captured and transferred back to battery storage when you hit the brakes.

---

### Post by smoker on 2007-08-15
i read articles on this before, and apparently there is a washing machine being designed to use the technology - the charged ions will remove dirt from clothes as they pass through!

technology is great, sometimes, lol,

---

### Post by mips on 2007-08-16
> **smoker said:**
> i read articles on this before, and apparently there is a washing machine being designed to use the technology - the charged ions will remove dirt from clothes as they pass through!

technology is great, sometimes, lol,

I wonder if that will make your hair stand up ?   :)

---

