---
title: "R.I.P. Harddisk"
date: 2009-04-18
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by ZarathustraDK on 2009-04-18
My harddisk just bought it... :(

Click...click...Bad sectors...click...kernel panic...

Oh well, it was only my system disk, not my storage.

Getting a VelociRaptor on monday :D

Jaunty oughtta be fast on that :popcorn:

---

### Post by Eisenwinter on 2009-04-18
so this hard disk is brand new, and yet it died immediately?

---

### Post by Chemical Imbalance on 2009-04-18
What model and where did you get it from?  Did you have a warranty?

---

### Post by MysticGold04 on 2009-04-18
Yeah, I'd be getting a replacement if its brand new.  I wont buy any drives but seagate now. WD and Maxtor seem to have lost quality over the last few years.  Funny, cuz I used to think that Seagate was junk.

---

### Post by tom66 on 2009-04-18
I think by "just bought it" he means it died...

---

### Post by az on 2009-04-18
> **ZarathustraDK said:**
> My harddisk just bought it... :(

Click...click...Bad sectors...click...kernel panic...

Oh well, it was only my system disk, not my storage.

Getting a VelociRaptor on monday :D

Jaunty oughtta be fast on that :popcorn:

If it boots far enough for you to get to a kernel panic, there is a chance you can recover your data from it.

Do you have anything on it worth rescuing?

[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/DataRecovery](http://help.ubuntu.com/community/DataRecovery)

[http://ubuntu-rescue-remix.org](http://ubuntu-rescue-remix.org)

---

### Post by pwnst*r on 2009-04-18
it's not new folks.  good thing storage is dirt cheap.

---

### Post by ZarathustraDK on 2009-04-18
Ah well it was pretty new, about a month or so. I was pretty lucky in regards to it failing though I think, I got like a week or so forewarning (had to reset the power like 20 times before it'd boot into Ubuntu). So I got all the data transferred to my storage disks. Heck, the thing I'll miss the most is my fstab-file :D

I think the harddisk in question was a WD800AAJS or something along those lines, an 80 gig one.

It was a strange error though. I could boot (after many resets), and then it rn quite slow (transfer-rates was close to usb-1 speeds). Perhaps one of the read-heads had bitten the dust or something.

Anyway, I'll RMA it when I get the velociraptor, then I'll use the RMA-one in my old comp :)

---

