---
title: "E17...wow"
date: 2009-04-05
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by gletob on 2009-04-05
So I just used this guide to install E17.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=916690](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=916690)

The default theme doesn't look half bad and it's extremely light on resources.

I'm thinking about making a minimal debian install with this on my laptop for my own custom quick booting os.  Will this script work with debian?

---

### Post by Sand &amp; Mercury on 2009-04-05
Have you tried Elive? It's exactly what you describe, a live CD using Debian, running E17.

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2009-04-05
E17 is awesome, but not usable enough for me yet. Maybe E18 would be better?

Try: Elive or Open Geu. It is Debian and Ubuntu running E17

I have only tried E17 under Arch, the default theme there is "Black n White" it is just as cool as KDE's theme. I don't think you use the same default theme in E17 under Debian or Ubuntu...

---

### Post by ddnev45 on 2009-04-05
Yes, or you can check out a Debian based distro that used e17 by default:

[OzOs]("http://www.cafelinux.org/OzOs/")

[Elive]("http://www.elivecd.org/")

[OpenGeu]("http://opengeu.intilinux.com/Home.html")

OzOs is maintained by the people that wrote the script you're referencing.

---

### Post by chris4585 on 2009-04-05
E17 is alright, but with the bling module enabled on Arch, there was a memory leak, every time I did anything it would  keep rising.  For that and not being able to scroll on the desktop drove me away.

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2009-04-05
> **Sand & Mercury said:**
> Have you tried Elive? It's exactly what you describe, a live CD using Debian, running E17.
+1 elive is great

i used the testing version for a while as my main OS and was very pleased with it, very stable for a testing release too

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2009-04-05
You can use that on Debian. I even ported the script, as well as a useful tool from OzOs, to Arch Linux, just so you can run this on that!

I don't use it now, though, as it has been too unstable for me. :(

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2009-04-05
Wow, I just tried out OzOs on a live USB session. The desktop is really beautiful.

You were invoved on that I see, Smartboyathome? Are there problems with stability?


.

---

### Post by Skripka on 2009-04-05
2 matters of note:

-We talked about this on nOOST.  All the neat graphics effects are in the "Bling"" module, which when enabled often results in crashing E...regardless of whether one uses *buntu/debian or Arch to build on.

-The other catch with E17 is that it doesn't use graphics acceleration...so on my insanely powerful rig-I get slow FPS when moving windows.  E18 may have this-but that won't be out for years in the future.

I like E...but the number of people who develop it worldwide could fit on my couch in my living room...and Gnome may be made fun of for steady but snail-paced improvements...E17 has been in beta for almost as long as Gmail-and it is still buggy.

It is a beautiful environment, the problem being there are a tiny tiny number of people to develop and bugfix it.


As for Elive...No one should pay for Debian, "donationware" or not...Elive is also only compiled for i386-no 64bit.

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2009-04-05
> **Sealbhach said:**
> Wow, I just tried out OzOs on a live USB session. The desktop is really beautiful.

You were invoved on that I see, Smartboyathome? Are there problems with stability?


.

Yep, and as long as you keep up to date on [this forum]("http://cafelinux.org/forum/index.php"), you should be fairly stable. I just got tired of not being able to update e17 when there was SVN breakage (quite frequently hen I left it).

---

### Post by namegame on 2009-04-05
In my opinion, the best implementation I have seen is on MoonOS which is essentially Ubuntu with E on it and multiple artwork enhancements.

Distribution page:
[http://www.moonos.co.cc/](http://www.moonos.co.cc/)

Screenshots:
[http://www.moonos.co.cc/?page_id=162](http://www.moonos.co.cc/?page_id=162)

I personally do not use E17. I find it too buggy/unstable for me.

---

### Post by Tux Aubrey on 2009-04-05
Recent svn revisions have been pretty stable and some cool new features have emerged recently - like a working system tray and the places module.

There was a problem about six weeks ago with a couple of "third party" modules (those that come in E-MODULES-EXTRA) that broke the update function in easy_e17.sh.  It was a simple file incompatibility that could be fixed manually (but would have stopped many people from updating).  Typically, no fix was ever issued so people who installed using the script more than six weeks ago will still be stuck.

Yes, the e17 development process is....um....difficult to live with sometimes, but quite rewarding once you develop a good strategy with backups and knowing the easy fixes off by heart.

We'll probably update the e17_svn script soon to make it more genuinely "cross distro" and maybe amend the default setup.  (modules, etc)

The extra OzOS packages(os-desktop, oz-desktop-extras, etc) are also due for a refresh.

---

### Post by racerraul on 2009-04-06
I am using OpenGEU.
In short it is Ubuntu+E17 and from what I understand the OpenGEU project uses part of GNOME to fill in the current gaps in E17.

I use OpenGEU 8.10 everyday, and IMO it is quite stable.

I have Compiz enabled, although this is still being implemented and not all the features there work.

Bling is really cool, however that module is still under development. It does freeze X when I tried using it.  However, you do not want to use Bling with Compiz.  It is either or...

Dropshadow needs some tweeking too, if you use multple desktops you see the shadow of all the windows on all the desktops.  I have reported it in launchpad

As for games as play Dofus & Open Arena, Nexuiz.  No issues even at high resolutions.  I am using the Nvidia 180.11 driver.

you can see some of my screenshots here
[http://www.flickr.com/photos/25246766@N07/](http://www.flickr.com/photos/25246766@N07/)

let me know if that link to my pics don't work

In short this is my fav distro.  9.04 is supposed to have more Compiz features.  But for now 8.10 rocks. I am very happy with it

---

### Post by ddnev45 on 2009-04-06
I used E17 on Xubuntu 8.10 and Deian Lenny; the only module that gave me any trouble was the bling module. Not too big an issue for me since I prefer minimal eye candy. Will most likely try E17 on Debian Squeeze when I get the time.

The OzOs site has a really good forum for E17 questions.

---

### Post by racerraul on 2009-04-06
Here is a bit of info posted on the OpenGEU forums regarding the possibility of the various e17 distro joining forces....

> 1) E17 is experimental and alpha software, so it is unstable, that's why few people are interested in it.
2) ELive has a totally different approach to the distro. They want a completely gnome-free distro. Pure E17. And that's why I started OpenGEU, I realized it was impossible to have a pure E17 distro usable by any noob user. E17 is a desktop shell, not a Desktop Environment. That's the reason why it needs some tools to be complete! And a compatibility layer between themes for an ergonomic look too, in my opinion.
3) Maryan is driven by a friend, but he started after meeting OpenGEU. Maryan had nothing original on its side, I tried to persuade Marvin on not going on his way but joining OpenGEU... but he didn't want to, for no reason I can understand. There was nothing different from the OpenGEU concept in Maryan.. plus he didn't even know how to build isos and asked me for help.. Sorry man, but I don't get it thats erious :\
4) MoonOS... well, I like the artwork too, but yet again, this is basically another OpenGEU clone.. when I started OpenGEU some years ago, no E17 distro was around except for Elive. See how many are around now! Why don't they join us, why did MoonOS have to go their own way? And remember that they used our repos too! It's not like they have their own. I don't mean there's nothing bad about this... but why sharing the same repos and concepts and being 2 different distros?? They didn't even contact us. I wonder why these kind of things always happen in the Linux scene (Ah, I contacted ELive in the beginning with my ideas... they didn'0t even answer).
5) OzOS and us are partners already in CafèLinux Wink
They have a completely different concept though: having the latest cutting edje and experimental development version of E17 and using apt-url to have the latest experimental softwares. It is a distro for developers. We don't share the same logo and name, but we know each other and already collaborate on our projects.

---

### Post by Bart_D on 2009-04-06
e17 is too glitzy for me to be able to use it without screaming everytime I click a mouse button.

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

---

### Post by thisllub on 2009-04-06
Fast, beautiful, highly configurable yet slightly unstable.
Yet crashes usually recover smoothly.
My second favourite after OpenBox which is faster, less beautiful but highly configurable and extremely stable.

---

### Post by Tux Aubrey on 2009-04-07
> e17 is too glitzy for me to be able to use it without screaming everytime I click a mouse button.

LOL.  You really must be doing something wrong!  Honestly, e17 can be as "plain jane" as you want.  Its essence is not bling -  it is functionality, efficiency and configurability.  It can even be a very plain tiling WM just like Openbox or Fluxbox.  Try a simple theme and turn off bling.

e17 does take some getting used to.  The configuration options are very extensive, complex and incredably poorly labelled and documented.

re
> 
5) OzOS and us are partners already in CafèLinux Wink
They have a completely different concept though: having the latest cutting edje and experimental development version of E17 and using apt-url to have the latest experimental softwares. It is a distro for developers. We don't share the same logo and name, but we know each other and already collaborate on our projects. 

Very true - OpenGeu is a great implementation using a snapshot release wheras OzOS exposes users directly to the e17 development process in "real time" (but only if they choose update constantly).  I am addicted to updating but have developed a number of strategies to protect myself from severe breakage.  I think having both options available is an excellent balance.  I usually recommend that people start their e17 explorations with OpenGEU and then, when they are comfortable and if they are ready to get burnt, give OzOS (via script or iso) a spin.  It is a window on the wide whacky world of the e17 developers and sometimes you see things you would rather not.

---

