---
title: "I'm 14!"
date: 2005-12-06
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by benplaut on 2005-12-06
happy birthday to me... if someone offers me a free linux CD, or anything of the type, i will virtually punch them :D

---

### Post by erikpiper on 2005-12-06
WOW I thought you were an adult!!!!

I am 14...
Are u a freshman? Or in 8'th?

---

### Post by xequence on 2005-12-06
I am also 14.

---

### Post by benplaut on 2005-12-06
[QUOTE=erikpiper]WOW I thought you were an adult!!!!

I am 14...
Are u a freshman? Or in 8'th?[/QUOTE]

i'm in 8th, but taking several 10th grade classes... i would skip up 9th grades would allow it), but i'd rather have friends of my age ;)

---

### Post by YourSurrogateGod on 2005-12-06
Youngins :p !!!

/happy b-day :) ...

---

### Post by Iandefor on 2005-12-06
Happy Birthday! Hopefully, it went well for you. *Gets busy preparing to send free Breezy CD's*

---

### Post by macgyver2 on 2005-12-06
Happy Birthday!  I, too, thought you were older than 14 from your posts...good job with that.

---

### Post by somuchfortheafter on 2005-12-06
happy birthday and thanks for making me feel old at the ripe age of 17 :)

---

### Post by YourSurrogateGod on 2005-12-06
Only 7 more years until you can buy liquer legally, start counting down the years :) !

---

### Post by BLTicklemonster on 2005-12-06
Happy Ubirnthday!!!!

---

### Post by gorkhal on 2005-12-06
well good for u young whipper snapper...cough cough...

---

### Post by bored2k on 2005-12-06
someone should send you 14 ubuntu discs :)

cheers bplaut

---

### Post by YourSurrogateGod on 2005-12-06
[QUOTE=bored2k]someone should send you 14 ubuntu discs :)[/QUOTE]
Hehehe...

---

### Post by benplaut on 2005-12-06
[QUOTE=bored2k]someone should send you 14 ubuntu discs :)

cheers bplaut[/QUOTE]

no thanks... i have 30 :rolleyes:

---

### Post by matthew on 2005-12-06
A very happy birthday to you!

---

### Post by KiwiNZ on 2005-12-06
Happy birthday have a great day

---

### Post by raublekick on 2005-12-06
Sheesh, you're such a n00b at life!
:)

Happy birthday, young Ubuntian

---

### Post by scruffy on 2005-12-06
Have a good one :D

---

### Post by atoponce on 2005-12-06
[quote=somuchfortheafter]happy birthday and thanks for making me feel old at the ripe age of 17 :)[/quote] So how should I feel being 28?  ;)

---

### Post by matthew on 2005-12-06
[quote=atoponce]So how should I feel being 28?  ;)[/quote] Younger than me at 35.

---

### Post by earobinson on 2005-12-06
happy birthday!

Couple of questions
Do you have your own computer or is it a shared computer?
Do you dual boot or single boot and why?
If you dual boot what you use more?
What do the rest of your family run?

---

### Post by Arktis on 2005-12-06
Allow me to present to you as a birthday gift 1 free invisible bag of air to be transported via stealth aircraft and dropped over your house at an unknown date.  

Enjoy.

---

### Post by earobinson on 2005-12-06
make him pay the shiping

---

### Post by rippon on 2005-12-06
[QUOTE=earobinson]happy birthday!

Couple of questions
Do you have your own computer or is it a shared computer?
Do you dual boot or single boot and why?
If you dual boot what you use more?
What do the rest of your family run?[/QUOTE]
Those are good questions. I will answer them for you (I am 16)
1) It is basically my computer, though I do not mind anyone using else using it.

2)I dual boot with XP home becuase I cant get ubuntu and my x800pro to game well.

3) Depends. Gaming is XP, I also use it to print stuff, or word/powerpoints that need to be done in word (OOo to MSPP doesnt go well for me). I cant get my cheap printer to work well with Ubuntu (barely works with XP). If I am just going to surf the net, and stuff, then I dont go to XP. I feel very insecure on XP, and ubuntu fixes that. linux=secure

4) My parents have thier computer which they primarly use, and it has been strictly linux for 9 months, mostly ubuntu 5.04, and now 5.10.
I, of course, forced linux on them. It is fast, and stable, so they dont cry too much. Especially when I remind them how much XP+Office costs.:!:

---

### Post by earobinson on 2005-12-07
I only made the jump to linux (no windows at all) after i left home, im now trying to convert my little bro (13) but well see how it goes. (I should be giving him a ubuntu laptop (really old, but dose the job for taking notes) next school year so maybe that will convert him!

---

### Post by raublekick on 2005-12-07
[QUOTE=earobinson]I only made the jump to linux (no windows at all) after i left home, im now trying to convert my little bro (13) but well see how it goes. (I should be giving him a ubuntu laptop (really old, but dose the job for taking notes) next school year so maybe that will convert him![/QUOTE]

I just installed Breezy on my 14 year old sister's computer. I basically gave her an ultimatum: let me install Ubuntu or I'm not going to fix the problems you cause anymore:p

---

### Post by TeeAhr1 on 2005-12-07
Hey, have-a the happy hatchling day!

---

### Post by benplaut on 2005-12-07
[QUOTE=earobinson]happy birthday!

Couple of questions
Do you have your own computer or is it a shared computer?
Do you dual boot or single boot and why?
If you dual boot what you use more?
What do the rest of your family run?[/QUOTE]

i bought myself a laptop last year... got sick and tired of waiting for the family dell all the time.

i single boot, 'cause i have no use for windows (but when i get a powerfull desktop for gaming, i'm going to dual-boot)

when i dual boot, i'm going to be on windows alot of the time... the laptop for school work, desktop for games and... gentoo :cool:  i feel so dirty...

the family desktop currently runs Windows, but once my sis gets all her pictures, music, and movies off of it, it's going to be dual-booting - all her pics are taking about 40gb, leaving no room (and defragging takes 3 days). 

-Grown Down :rolleyes:

---

### Post by GeneralZod on 2005-12-07
Blimey - that makes me twice your age!

Anyway, Happy Birthday!

---

### Post by Brunellus on 2005-12-07
[QUOTE=raublekick]I just installed Breezy on my 14 year old sister's computer. I basically gave her an ultimatum: let me install Ubuntu or I'm not going to fix the problems you cause anymore:p[/QUOTE]
that's how I've been with my family.  It helps that I can very easily point to the price of a shrink-wrapped copy of winXP and say "or would you rather pay that?"

---

### Post by earobinson on 2005-12-07
ya but my family all ready has windows so i cant use that argument.
(sorry if im stealing your thunder benplaut)

Also a lot of games can be played on ubuntu under wine or cedaga!

---

### Post by BWF89 on 2005-12-07
Happy Birthday!

I've been 16 since Sunday and got Hacking Firefox (good book so far) and Against the Fall of NIght.

---

### Post by BWF89 on 2005-12-07
What presents did you get (if any) for your birthday?

Sorry for the double post but these crappy iMac G3's with MacOS9 and Internet Explorer 5 Mac Edition don't dispalay the "edit" button (i'm posting from school).

---

### Post by fuscia on 2005-12-07
[img]http://www.crenshaw-mcdonald.com/Cake.jpg[/img]

---

### Post by ex` on 2005-12-07
Congrats!
Five more days 'till my 20th birthday. :)

---

### Post by Rinzwind on 2005-12-07
9 days till I'm 37 :P

---

### Post by l0c0dantes on 2005-12-07
Happy Birthday! I'm 19, and this crap is blowing my mind, congratulations on getting into it so young

---

### Post by darkoptix on 2005-12-07
Happy Birthday!
I just turned 18 on December 3, which is a pretty pointless year to turn...

---

### Post by xequence on 2005-12-07
Isnt it odd that the internet is just about the only place where people who are any age talk and stuff? On the internet you could have a 14 year old talking to a 40 year old and you wouldent know the difference. The internet is the only place where age doesent matter. (Well, for MOST things ;))

---

### Post by earobinson on 2005-12-07
[QUOTE=xequence]Isnt it odd that the internet is just about the only place where people who are any age talk and stuff? On the internet you could have a 14 year old talking to a 40 year old and you wouldent know the difference. The internet is the only place where age doesent matter. (Well, for MOST things ;))[/QUOTE]
also age, rase, sex, and anything else people discriminate aginst dosent matter.

---

### Post by matthew on 2005-12-07
[quote=xequence]Isnt it odd that the internet is just about the only place where people who are any age talk and stuff? On the internet you could have a 14 year old talking to a 40 year old and you wouldent know the difference. The internet is the only place where age doesent matter. (Well, for MOST things ;))[/quote]Especially when a younger person uses the cover of a Who album as his avatar. :) :)

---

### Post by xequence on 2005-12-07
[QUOTE=matthew]Especially when a younger person uses the cover of a Who album as his avatar. :) :)[/QUOTE]

The Who rock my socks :cool:

Id never get sucked in to the mindless pop music today...

---

### Post by Brunellus on 2005-12-07
[QUOTE=xequence]The Who rock my socks :cool:

Id never get sucked in to the mindless pop music today...[/QUOTE]
You don't have to.  There has never been a better time to be young and indie.  

This is a shout-out to my whole echo-boomer cohort-- get up, get out, get hip, get active.  There's a lot of *new* things going on in the world today, and a lot of it isn't controlled by the same distributors that fed our parents' generation, and which continue to pander to them.

---

### Post by BWF89 on 2005-12-07
[http://digikam3rdparty.free.fr/Templates/Events/happy-birthday-1.png](http://digikam3rdparty.free.fr/Templates/Events/happy-birthday-1.png)

---

### Post by gRiMgRaVy014 on 2005-12-07
I'm 13..but almost 14.

---

### Post by majikstreet on 2005-12-07
Hey benplaut! happy birthday :)

---

### Post by picpak on 2005-12-07
I'm 14 too. 15 in April.

---

### Post by benplaut on 2005-12-07
the gifts totally sucked this year... from a purely materialistic standpoint, they were worth about $15.

Penguin gloves (hawaii!?!?!?)
Penguin bookmark
Penguin 'weeble-wobbles'
book of jewish history - i could care less

They have no clue what to get me, and think that i'm obsessed with penguins. w3rd.

We're going to NYC later this month, so i think i can get presents off of them there :)

---

### Post by towsonu2003 on 2006-02-04
[QUOTE=benplaut]happy birthday to me... if someone offers me a free linux CD, or anything of the type, i will virtually punch them :D[/QUOTE]
happy birthday. when I was 14, I knew how to play kick off 2 in amiga..........

---

### Post by Leo_01 on 2006-02-04
Hey!
i am 14 too!
woot!
maybe we should have somekind of Young Ubuntu-ians club...
lol.:D

---

