---
title: "Is 10.04 bucking the trend?"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2010-04-30
I'm amazed.  Up until now, every time a new release came out, the forums have had an influx of threads saying how crappy the new release is.  People always say that the new release is worse than the old one and they're going back to the old version.  A while back when 9.10 came out, I actually predicted that people would complain about 10.04 and want to go back to 9.10.

But so far this time, I haven't noticed any threads with people whining about 10.04.  I've actually seen a few positive threads about it with no complaining.

Did they finally get it right this time?  Maybe 2010 is the "Year of Desktop Linux."  :lol:

---

### Post by kaldor on 2010-04-30
Only issue I have is laptop temp. Aside from that, it's quite stable and solid. I'm very happy.

---

### Post by nmccrina on 2010-04-30
I really like it, but then again I didn't have any problems with 9.10 either. Also, I just shut up and moved the minimize/maximize/close buttons back to the right instead of bit-, er, complaining about it. :)

---

### Post by Shakz on 2010-04-30
> **forrestcupp said:**
> I'm amazed.  Up until now, every time a new release came out, the forums have had an influx of threads saying how crappy the new release is.  People always say that the new release is worse than the old one and they're going back to the old version.  A while back when 9.10 came out, I actually predicted that people would complain about 10.04 and want to go back to 9.10.

But so far this time, I haven't noticed any threads with people whining about 10.04.  I've actually seen a few positive threads about it with no complaining.

Did they finally get it right this time?  Maybe 2010 is the "Year of Desktop Linux."  :lol:

I switched back to Karmic for now as a personal choice....no reason to complain about it though...ubuntu is a great OS and I love using it. 

Might just wait till 10.10 and hope for GNOME 3.0. We will see. Of course I may get my GNOME 3 in 10.10 and hate it and stick with 9.10 or switch to kde....thats the best thing about this OS...so many choices!

---

### Post by EarthMind on 2010-04-30
This release is crappy! :-x Because my WLAN adapter still doesn't work :(

---

### Post by donkyhotay on 2010-04-30
I'm still updating and so haven't used 10.04 personally yet. You're right though, the number of gripes are lower then they were compared to the day or so after previous releases. Of course I do remember seeing *more* griping during the beta/RC before the official release however most of that was "ubuntu sux cause dey moved da buttons". Don't know if people actually prefer 10.04 it is so bad that a bunch of people jumped ship before the official release. On the whole it doesn't matter, I'm planning on trying out 10.04 and if I don't like it I'll just find a different distro to use instead. It's not like you have vendor lock-in like you get with other OS's.

---

### Post by Phrea on 2010-04-30
> **EarthMind said:**
> This release is crappy! :-x Because my WLAN adapter still doesn't work :(

This is now a 10.04 complaining thread. :lolflag:

---

### Post by aysiu on 2010-04-30
I've noticed some complaint threads, but nowhere near the amount we usually get, and certainly not of the "this is the worst release ever" variety. Most are of the "I can't believe this still didn't fix this bug" or "What is with the window buttons on the left" variety.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2010-04-30
> **forrestcupp said:**
> Maybe 2010 is the "Year of Desktop Linux."  :lol:

No, i'm pretty sure that was 2009. 
Or 2008. 
Or maybe 2007. 
Or...

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-30
Just wait until the weekend, we should see a lot more worst ever threads. :)

---

### Post by Excedio on 2010-04-30
> **EarthMind said:**
> This release is crappy! :-x Because my WLAN adapter still doesn't work :(
 
Maybe you can try going here ([http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=326](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=326)) and ask for help.
I looked at your Recently Created threads. I don't see any request for assistance.

---

### Post by mamamia88 on 2010-04-30
anyone know how to get unmount back?

---

### Post by sataris on 2010-04-30
My $.02 follows:
 
I think it is getting noticed more in less obscure locations by the media, and I believe that in conjunction with the Android OS, people are noticing Open Source more now. I have definately seen more Ubuntu 10.04 articles and posts in the blogging world than with previous releases, or any other distro for that matter.
 
As far as the "worst distro release evar!!!11!!!", I notice 2x trends. "OMG Mac button Layout Clone" posts and complaints along with the Plymouth w/Nvidia driver issue.
 
Those 2 topics are being heavily asked about and debated, but other than that it appears to be smoother than most releases to me.

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2010-04-30
> **forrestcupp said:**
> I'm amazed.  Up until now, every time a new release came out, the forums have had an influx of threads saying how crappy the new release is.  People always say that the new release is worse than the old one and they're going back to the old version.  A while back when 9.10 came out, I actually predicted that people would complain about 10.04 and want to go back to 9.10.

But so far this time, I haven't noticed any threads with people whining about 10.04.  I've actually seen a few positive threads about it with no complaining.

Did they finally get it right this time?  Maybe 2010 is the "Year of Desktop Linux."  :lol:

Maybe it's because the release got pushed back some by the Grub2 Bug so they are just getting into it late?

Or maybe it's just getting that good!  

I think there will be an influx during and right after the weekend when people get a chance to get into it some.  I know I will be doing this weekend!

---

### Post by Foster Grant on 2010-04-30
> **aysiu said:**
> I've noticed some complaint threads, but nowhere near the amount we usually get, and certainly not of the "this is the worst release ever" variety. Most are of the "I can't believe this still didn't fix this bug" or "What is with the window buttons on the left" variety.

I still believe most of the complaints about 9.10 happened because of the change from HAL to DeviceKit.

I have noticed that 10.04 uses more memory (about 200-300 more megabytes) than any previous version of GNOME-based Ubuntu. Still not using a full gigabyte of RAM on my laptop, though. :lol:

---

### Post by JohnH on 2010-04-30
Or could it be that the size of the forum is SO big that posted comments disappears into the forum darkness before they are seen.

For my purposes, the only thing that I notice different with Karmic is the buttons, purple colour and boot up speed. All the young people's community stuff I don't use. I change the desktop to the way I like it anyway (which I love about Linux).

My install went flawlessly. 

Good thread.

John

---

### Post by MellonCollie on 2010-04-30
Maybe a lot of the "Worst release ever!" people have moved on to pastures new.

---

### Post by bowens44 on 2010-04-30
Lucid rocks!!! Easily the most effortless installation of an OS I have ever done (and I've installed many in the lat 20 plus years).

Every thing works. I have not had a single issue. There be some but so far it's been basically a no brainer to running

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-04-30
> **forrestcupp said:**
> I'm amazed.  Up until now, every time a new release came out, the forums have had an influx of threads saying how crappy the new release is.  People always say that the new release is worse than the old one and they're going back to the old version.  A while back when 9.10 came out, I actually predicted that people would complain about 10.04 and want to go back to 9.10.

But so far this time, I haven't noticed any threads with people whining about 10.04.  I've actually seen a few positive threads about it with no complaining.

Did they finally get it right this time?  Maybe 2010 is the "Year of Desktop Linux."  :lol:

Just give 'em time. They'll appear sooner or later, I'm sure. :)

---

### Post by HarrisonNapper on 2010-04-30
> **bowens44 said:**
> Lucid rocks!!! Easily the most effortless installation of an OS I have ever done (and I've installed many in the lat 20 plus years).

Every thing works. I have not had a single issue. There be some but so far it's been basically a no brainer to running

Thank you so much for referring to it as Lucid. I hope the trend of referring to it by the adjective stays since "Lynx broke <insert thing here, usually Windows>" is incredibly confusing for those of us who still use text-only browsing.

---

### Post by Lightstar on 2010-04-30
I have problems D:  5!

3 of them fixed.
Now I need to figure out why it boots so dang slow.
from Grub to GDM, very quick.
After I put my password, AWN and the mouse pointer appear, the intro sound comes out, but the gnome panel and desktop icons take a whooping 25-30 seconds to appear.    Maybe a nautilus problem, if it persists I'll ask in the help area.

---

### Post by KinKiac on 2010-04-30
> **nmccrina said:**
> I really like it, but then again I didn't have any problems with 9.10 either. Also, I just shut up and moved the minimize/maximize/close buttons back to the right instead of bit-, er, complaining about it. :)

I didnt even have to do that(moving buttons).  All I did was setup my compiz, download emerald, setup a basic emerald theme and voila, emerald moved the buttons for me, lol.

---

### Post by KinKiac on 2010-04-30
> **EarthMind said:**
> This release is crappy! :-x Because my WLAN adapter still doesn't work :(

I had some issues with mine not wanting to connect but I ended up just setting the config for it manually and then logged out and back in and it connected fine after that.  For some reason it wouldnt connect without restarting the session though.

---

### Post by itsjustarumour on 2010-04-30
> **HarrisonNapper said:**
> Since "Lynx broke <insert thing here, usually Windows>" is incredibly confusing for those of us who still use text-only browsing.

:lolflag:

---

### Post by EarthMind on 2010-04-30
> **KinKiac said:**
> I had some issues with mine not wanting to connect but I ended up just setting the config for it manually and then logged out and back in and it connected fine after that.  For some reason it wouldnt connect without restarting the session though.

Blah, I hate compiling and editing config files manually... But I guess I'll have to do an effort because the new KDE is just amazing!

---

### Post by bash on 2010-04-30
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Just wait until the weekend, we should see a lot more worst ever threads. :)

I agree with this. I think it's just too early. And even if this time there aren't any serious complaints, there is always at least one troll who can't pass up the chance for such major flamebait. So I predict, just wait a few days and you'll see the threads popping up like after every release.

---

### Post by JDShu on 2010-04-30
> **bash said:**
> I agree with this. I think it's just too early. And even if this time there aren't any serious complaints, there is always at least one troll who can't pass up the chance for such major flamebait. So I predict, just wait a few days and you'll see the threads popping up like after every release.

I concur. I was wondering the same thing, but I think the weekend is when its really going to start happening.

EDIT: btw, the spike hasn't appeared yet on [google trends]("http://www.google.com/trends?q=ubuntu"). Its unscientific, but I think its another clue to tell us to wait for them instead of thinking they won't apprear :P

---

### Post by phrostbyte on 2010-04-30
I have seen several already. Half of them are complaining about window controls being on the left though. But there does seem to be some hardware regressions as well.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-30
They're coming. :) I tried to go to [http://releases,ubuntu.com]("http://releases,ubuntu.com") a while ago and the page timed out.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-04-30
> **cariboo907 said:**
> They're coming. :) I tried to go to [http://releases,ubuntu.com]("http://releases,ubuntu.com") a while ago and the page timed out.

Time for our flame-proof suits, then, is it?

Edit: And I get an error on trying that link. A comma in your link instead of a dot. 

/nitpicking editor & teacher of grammar:)

---

### Post by madjr on 2010-05-01
> **forrestcupp said:**
> I'm amazed.  Up until now, every time a new release came out, the forums have had an influx of threads saying how crappy the new release is.  People always say that the new release is worse than the old one and they're going back to the old version.  A while back when 9.10 came out, I actually predicted that people would complain about 10.04 and want to go back to 9.10.

But so far this time, I haven't noticed any threads with people whining about 10.04.  I've actually seen a few positive threads about it with no complaining.

Did they finally get it right this time?  Maybe 2010 is the "Year of Desktop Linux."  :lol:


it's amazing what a new wallpaper and theme can do lol

seriously the shiny stuff always calms the masses

this probably why apple is doing so well :P

Mark rocks :guitar:


on the other hand, the more people we have in absolute **[B]beginner forum,**[/B] the better
[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=326](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=326)

so hang in there if you can

No threads without responses please :)

lets keep the frustration level to the minimum

---

### Post by scouser73 on 2010-05-01
For me, 10.04 has been the best yet.  I installed it at the alpha 3 stage and it was very stable which for an alpha I found surprising, the developers really have done an amazing job with Ubuntu on all the releases so they deserve a big pat on the back.

I'd like to see more people that use Windows now start to try Ubuntu and see and feel the ease of use and non-complexity.

---

### Post by Khakilang on 2010-05-01
So far so good for me. I install Lubuntu on my older computer and upgrade to Ubuntu Lucid Lynx on my main computer. At first Lubuntu was slow but after some updates it work fine. I am surprise why there is so much complain. I have upgrade from 8.10, 9.04, 9.10 and now 10.04. Earlier I use clean install as I am not sure of my skill when thing go wrong. But now I am a bit more confident. I do make some complain but actually its my own fault breaking all the dependencies but now I learn.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-05-01
There seem to be a fair few people with graphics issues, such as the Intel 82852/855GM chips and similar, who don't know about the workarounds. I can understand them feeling rather frustrated. I know about some of the workarounds, having been involved with bugs and testing, but I don't see them posted prominently anywhere.

Mind you, given the readership rate of stickies, I don't know that having one would achieve much.

---

### Post by Andreas1 on 2010-05-01
i am surprised. i was just looking for the install/upgrade experience poll to vent my frustration. should i create it?

EDIT: nevermind, it's [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1465548")

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2010-05-01
> They're coming.  I tried to go to [http://releases,ubuntu.com](http://releases,ubuntu.com)  a while ago and the page timed out.

cant get to it either. Does this mean no one can get to it?
Or just some people cant get to it.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2010-05-01
[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download)

I can get to this, perhaps the other link is wrong.
It is not good to release an OS and no one can get to the download site at all. sort of sounds like a DOS attack.

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-05-01
> **sdowney717 said:**
> cant get to it either. Does this mean no one can get to it?
Or just some people cant get to it.

The link you tried to get to has a comma in the address. Look closely. You want [www.releases.ubuntu.com](www.releases.ubuntu.com)

---

### Post by Johnsie on 2010-05-01
Pople have complained about new versions since Breezy. Most people don't like change. I guess there are sometimes regressions too... It's pretty hard to shape an operating system that fits every single persons requirements.

I think for a while Ubuntu got so popular that it became impossoble for the developers to deal with all the requests people made.Extra users doesn't mean extra money, so  the resources aren't really in place to make really big improvements ofver 6 months.

6 months is a very short time to update a whole operating system.

---

### Post by andras artois on 2010-05-01
Loaded it in a VM and had a quick look. It looks a lot nicer than previous versions and is pretty speedy. Can't wait till I don't need windows anymore.

On a sidenote if you have a windows VM in linux can you use CAD/play games?

---

### Post by Danimoth on 2010-05-01
> **andras artois said:**
> Loaded it in a VM and had a quick look. It looks a lot nicer than previous versions and is pretty speedy. Can't wait till I don't need windows anymore.

On a sidenote if you have a windows VM in linux can you use CAD/play games?

You can, but i advise against it. I have WinXP in VirtualBox for the purpose of running autocad, but you need a good machine. AutoCad is annoyingly slow in windows to begin with, and has a further performance hit in a vm, so only if you have a good pc.

---

### Post by Duncan J Murray on 2010-05-01
> **Lightstar said:**
> I have problems D:  5!

3 of them fixed.
Now I need to figure out why it boots so dang slow.
from Grub to GDM, very quick.
After I put my password, AWN and the mouse pointer appear, the intro sound comes out, but the gnome panel and desktop icons take a whooping 25-30 seconds to appear.    Maybe a nautilus problem, if it persists I'll ask in the help area.

I had that problem.

Found out it was caused by gnome trying to mount s non-existent floppy drive.

Solved it going into bios and disabling the non-existent floppy drive.

Hope that helps!

see thr bug posted about it on launchpad

Duncan

---

### Post by Duncan J Murray on 2010-05-01
Juat a thought - but this version may garner less problems because it is based on debisn-testing rather than debian unstable (being an LTS).

D

---

### Post by barney385 on 2010-05-01
Works seamlessly for me.


:smile:

---

### Post by scouser73 on 2010-05-01
> **sdowney717 said:**
> cant get to it either. Does this mean no one can get to it?
Or just some people cant get to it.

There is a comma in the link, the actual site itself works and is curfrently up and running.

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/)

---

### Post by jfloydb on 2010-05-02
10.04 has been out for a day or so, and I haven't seen any rants that it's the "worst distro ever"...

Personally, I like 10.04 a lot! Everything works out of the box, I was able to download and install the Human-Clearlooks Theme (my favorite), and they kept the Synaptic Package Manager (there was some doubt). So, all in all, I'm looking forward to using Lucid Lynx for the long-term...

PS. And the "Funky Bongos" are back...

---

### Post by kaldor on 2010-05-02
> **jfloydb said:**
> 10.04 has been out for a day or so, and I haven't seen any rants that it's the "worst distro ever"...

Personally, I like 10.04 a lot! Everything works out of the box, I was able to download and install the Human-Clearlooks Theme (my favorite), and they kept the Synaptic Package Manager (there was some doubt). So, all in all, I'm looking forward to using Lucid Lynx for the long-term...

PS. And the "Funky Bongos" are back...

I hope some other distros play catchup and become as stable and simple. Lucid is great!

---

### Post by Phrea on 2010-05-02
> **jfloydb said:**
> 10.04 has been out for a day or so, and I haven't seen any rants that it's the "worst distro ever"...

Personally, I like 10.04 a lot! Everything works out of the box, I was able to download and install the Human-Clearlooks Theme (my favorite), and they kept the Synaptic Package Manager (there was some doubt). So, all in all, I'm looking forward to using Lucid Lynx for the long-term...

PS. And the "Funky Bongos" are back...

This is -however- not the first thread about this, so maybe that's the new complaint from now on: where are the 'worst distro ever' threads...?! :lolflag:

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-05-02
This [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1468588"), comes close. :)

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2010-05-02
Everything is not perfect all the time, but it is pretty dern good.

Tim

---

### Post by jfloydb on 2010-05-02
> **cariboo907 said:**
> This [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1468588"), comes close. :)

I missed that thread. Oh well. 10.04 is still pretty good.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-05-02
I'll say that, so far, I haven't seen the sort of rage that appeared after previous releases.

But maybe that's just me.

---

### Post by cdude42 on 2010-05-02
if you want the buttons back on the right

1. hit ALT+F2 and type gconf-editor

2. navigate to apps>metacity>general

3. find button layout, right click and hit "edit key"

4. copy this "menu:minimize,maximize,close" (without quotes) into the value box. you can also use this ":minimize,maximize,close" if you don't want that menu button on the left.

---

### Post by Scoobin on 2010-05-02
Overall I'm pretty pleased with this release. The overhauled Software Centre is a huge step in the right direction (user-friendly for beginners). The improved boot time is not to be scoffed at either. I'm giving the left-hand buttons a chance...

My only issue is I love to use AWN but Canonical has gone and messed with the notification area so that the main items are no longer a part of it, ie I can't use them on my AWN bar (eg sound, IM, etc).

My question is, is Ubuntu becoming a bit too non-conformist? :D 

Or is it carving out it's own uniqueness in the world of similar gnome-based GUIs?

Those questions probably deserves a new thread but oh well.

---

### Post by xir_ on 2010-05-02
> **Foster Grant said:**
> I still believe most of the complaints about 9.10 happened because of the change from HAL to DeviceKit.

I have noticed that 10.04 uses more memory (about 200-300 more megabytes) than any previous version of GNOME-based Ubuntu. Still not using a full gigabyte of RAM on my laptop, though. :lol:

i think most people that notice this are suffering from the ureadahead bug.

Try removing and rebooting a couple time and see if your usage goes down. If it does you are part of the bug club.

---

### Post by ken_do_san on 2010-05-02
> **cdude42 said:**
> if you want the buttons back on the right

1. hit ALT+F2 and type gconf-editor

2. navigate to apps>metacity>general

3. find button layout, right click and hit "edit key"

4. copy this "menu:minimize,maximize,close" (without quotes) into the value box. you can also use this ":minimize,maximize,close" if you don't want that menu button on the left.

Thanks cdude42

Wanted to have the buttons back on the right hand side, just didn't know what I had to edit and replace.

Now if only there was a way to have unmount back in the right click pop up menu, it would be the sweetest release yet (IMO), everything has worked OOTB, even the wireless and LED for the wireless work (I have a Compac Presario c700).

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2010-05-03
My only problem so far is trying to get it onto my USB stick so I can boot to that (and not have to drag out the whole external CD-Rom apparatus).  

Oh, that and the seconds lost when I go to close a window and then have to move to the OTHER side of the title... precious seconds! ;)  Oh, well.. I'll get used to it.

---

### Post by jfloydb on 2010-05-05
Well...today it seems that the Cafe discussions are pretty general in nature. There does not seem to be any 10.04 bashing. That's great...

---

### Post by vaiocomputer on 2010-05-05
For the most part, I'm okay with lucid, although I can't say I'm not disappointed at how little difference this version is to the previous, aside from the software updates, which has more to do with the software developers than Canonical.  I mean, yeah, sure, the icons are now purple and blood orange, and there is a noticeable speed boost for many tasks, but I'm feeling a little underwhelmed at the release after the hype that was made about it on the Internet.

I actually like the default Human theme from the last release and Turrican, which was also in the last release, better than any of the new lucid themes, which was supposedly a major feature of lucid.  The new themes are for me...to put it lightly...disappointing.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-05-05
Lucid is an LTS version, so you shouldn't expect all sorts of new bells and whistle. This version will be supported until 2013.

As far as bucking the trend, I haven't noticed as many **worst ever threads** threads as usual for a new release. Maybe Canonical is slipping. :)

---

### Post by jfloydb on 2010-05-05
> **vaiocomputer said:**
> For the most part, I'm okay with lucid, although I can't say I'm not disappointed at how little difference this version is to the previous, aside from the software updates, which has more to do with the software developers than Canonical.  I mean, yeah, sure, the icons are now purple and blood orange, and there is a noticeable speed boost for many tasks, but I'm feeling a little underwhelmed at the release after the hype that was made about it on the Internet.

I actually like the default Human theme from the last release and Turrican, which was also in the last release, better than any of the new lucid themes, which was supposedly a major feature of lucid.  The new themes are for me...to put it lightly...disappointing.

For me 9.10 was a disappointment; I had to "downgrade" to 9.04 just to have a box I could really use. So, for me, 10.04 is great: everything works, and I get updated software packages. I too like the Human-Theme (Human Clearlooks for me), so I installed it from Synaptic and made myself an orange-brown Background. All is pretty good in Ubuntu Land for me...

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-05-05
There aren't perhaps as many "worst release ever" threads as previously, but there is some deep disillusionment from some long-term and knowledgeable people. To me, that's something to pay attention to.

Problems don't always come heralded with a lot of yelling and shouting. Doesn't mean that they aren't there, though.

---

### Post by Ric_NYC on 2010-05-05
Very positive:

[IMG]http://img405.imageshack.us/img405/4690/screenshot1oy.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by supermelon928 on 2010-05-05
> **Irihapeti said:**
> Problems don't always come heralded with a lot of yelling and shouting. Doesn't mean that they aren't there, though.

Then how are we forum idiots going to know?

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2010-05-05
> **supermelon928 said:**
> Then how are we forum idiots going to know?

Lol.  Good point. :)

If there are bugs there, but you don't ever notice them, then those bugs don't really affect you, do they?

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-05-05
People might respond to a problem like [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9235521&postcount=1"). That's a quiet, thoughtful acknowledgement of a problem without much emotion.

That kind of thing tends not to register on the radar because it doesn't have an angry title.

---

### Post by Scoobin on 2010-05-05
That's not a big deal though. You are never going to please everyone all of the time. There will always be some people that don't like this or that about a new release.

He did have older hardware too he said, and let's be honest, Ubuntu is not the best choice for older hardware.

As he says, (and I paraphrase) it would be nice to see better compatibility between Ubuntu and various display hardware (monitors and graphics cards).

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-05-05
The real problem seems to be the the Xorg guys are moving the goalposts faster than the manufacturers can keep up.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-05-05
Am I missing something here? I thought that Ubuntu and Linux *were* for older hardware. It's the new stuff that is hard to cater for, because it takes time to write drivers for them.

Is Ubuntu now going down the "let's all buy new hardware every few years" road? I find that very disappointing.

But I rather suspect that continuing this discussion is a waste of time.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-05-05
The drivers have to be re-written in order to keep up with the changes in Xorg, if there were someone working on drivers for older hardware, we wouldn't have the problems that are occurring now.

The manufacturers seem to be more than happy to drop support for older hardware, witness the number models that ATI no longer supports.

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2010-05-06
Ok, 10.04 looks good, on the systems I can get it onto.

Unfortunately my laptop has an Intel graphics chip and so I can't even get past the bootup splashscreen before it blanks!  This is my main system!

So far it looks nice on my desktop and once I can figure out how to get it to dual-boot with Windows 7 then I'll bring it up for the rest of the family!

So, not too bad so far, but I'll reserver judgement for when I can actually get it to work for me.

If all else fails, Fedora 13 is out in less than 2 weeks.

EDIT: all may NOT be lost. Just ran across this [_thread _]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9239776#post9239776")which he is using the same model laptop I am having trouble (D400).  His suggestions is using "i915.modeset=1" (I was setting to "0").  I'll be trying this tonight!

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-05-06
10.04 is an improvement on 9.10 , but based on the sneek peek reviews that I read major changes were not expected, so I wasn't let down in any way.
 
If you look at the help forums there is no lack of issues reported . Many of the threads are generated by new users like myself.
 
Since the release I see more negitive comments every day so time will tell if there is a trend or not.

---

### Post by BuffaloX on 2010-05-06
Lucid is the best release since Dapper (6.06) IMO.

Most releases have had improvements, but also setbacks.
This time the improvements are as plentiful as ever, and I have not experienced any serious setbacks.

Only small annoyances are the mysterious removal of SUN Java from the repo, and much much slower disk check.
Fortunately Sun Java is available through other sources, and disk check can be skipped.

**My top 5 favorite new features:**
Gnome is snappier than ever.
Network manager finally works for easy change of DNS servers.
Clipboard finally works after closing apps, as it should.
Boot-up and shut-down are Super-fast.
Open source Radeon driver now works really well for my ATI Radeon 4770.

---

### Post by supermelon928 on 2010-05-06
What say you all about full-screen Flash videos in 10.04? If they usually sucked for you with previous releases (as they do for me), have they still sucked since you upgraded?

---

### Post by Ric_NYC on 2010-05-06
> **supermelon928 said:**
> What say you all about full-screen Flash videos in 10.04? If they usually sucked for you with previous releases (as they do for me), have they still sucked since you upgraded?


I use Minitube to watch videos in full screen. Better than using a browser (performance is not good in Chrome, Firefox etc)


**Minitube 1.0 Released - Play YouTube Videos Without Flash [Ubuntu .deb Download**]

[http://www.webupd8.org/2010/05/minitube-10-released-play-youtube.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2010/05/minitube-10-released-play-youtube.html)

---

### Post by Roasted on 2010-05-06
There's hate threads out there, but definitely less than I remember from other releases.

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2010-05-06
> **Roasted said:**
> There's hate threads out there, but definitely less than I remember from other releases.

Good.  

Ironically I'm having more problems with this version than I've had with previous versions!

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2010-05-07
> **Dragonbite said:**
> 
Unfortunately my laptop has an Intel graphics chip and so I can't even get past the bootup splashscreen before it blanks!  This is my main system!

That sucks.  Didn't Intel used to be the best supported GPU?

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2010-05-09
> **forrestcupp said:**
> That sucks.  Didn't Intel used to be the best supported GPU?

I have never had a problem with Intel graphics before.

I just tried installing 10.04 on a not-quite-critical hard drive on that laptop (I have 3 hard drves and trays for easy swapping) and it's just not successful. Can't even get on the net yet, and may be able to with some tweaking but if I wanted to tweak I'd go with something like Fedora.

The only thing that is making me feel slightly better is this seems to not be an Ubuntu thing, but rather a kernel thing and it's effecting everybody. So if there is enough noise it may get fixed relatively swiftly (I can hope).

---

### Post by mediocrates on 2010-05-14
> **forrestcupp said:**
> I'm amazed.  Up until now, every time a new release came out, the forums have had an influx of threads saying how crappy the new release is.

No, we've come to the conclusion that the big-haired marketing weirdos firmly planted in the driver's seat at Canonical don't give a damn about fixing bugs or being responsive to what users *want*, they just want to make everything shiny.

I really liked 7.04. Everything worked, multimedia was great, I put it on an old Compaq for use as a multimedia PC. The only thing 7.04 lacked was Apt On CD.

"Upgraded" to 8.04 when the video driver on the MPC went meshuggah and found out that NFS was broke. CUPS was broke too - Windows PCs could not connect to it via Windows Internet Printing. What I really didn't like was the removal of XMMS from the repos just because it wasn't being actively developed. XMMS doesn't need to be developed because it is perfect, none of the replacements are anywhere near as good. I found XMMS deb files on the internet and figured out workarounds with Samba for the networking and printing issues and just lived with it.

Tried 10.4 this week. I was really looking forward to trying the ext4 filesystem now that the data integrity issues are fixed but found it no faster than ext3. In fact, I found 10.4 to be slower than 8.04 and unstable. DVD playback in Totem has poor picture quality and is jerky. Didn't like the changes to Gnome and was not happy to find out that Grip is now removed from the repos.

Went back to 8.04. If the next 3 releases do not concentrate on bugfixes and giving users choice in the repos... it won't matter, I will have switched to something else.

---

### Post by windowsdown on 2010-05-14
As of today, add me to the list of Lucid Loathers. 

I am pasting this text in from GEdit because...I am unable to type into the browser. I get that sometimes, but never before the upgrade. 

Firefox screen is stuck in a screen of small size with no maximize/restore/close buttons. The F11 key will auto-display them, but they do nothing. 

I believe my video driver waved bye-bye to normalcy and my display is irreparably overstretching the screen...what else you want to know?  

Having come over at 8.10, I am incredibly disappointed in this release.  I'm going back to 9.10 on the first thing smoking.

---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2010-05-14
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Just wait until the weekend, we should see a lot more worst ever threads. :) Not from me! Just delighted with everything as it comes right out of the box! The update manager upgrade was just smooth as silk! :guitar:

---

### Post by seenthelite on 2010-05-14
I have only used 9.04,9.10 and now 10.04 and on my computers I have seen a massive improvement in many areas. Particularly with the latest version of Virtualbox for example. Very pleased Thank you.

---

### Post by Scoobin on 2010-05-19
> **mediocrates said:**
> Tried 10.4 this week. I was really looking forward to trying the ext4 filesystem now that the data integrity issues are fixed but found it no faster than ext3. In fact, I found 10.4 to be slower than 8.04 and unstable. DVD playback in Totem has poor picture quality and is jerky. Didn't like the changes to Gnome and was not happy to find out that Grip is now removed from the repos.
If you are finding ext4 slower than ext3, I wonder if it's because you are using a very old computer (say 7+ yrs). My computer is 5 years old and I found using Ext4 gave it a speed boost of at least a fifth or a quarter.

> **mediocrates said:**
> Went back to 8.04. If the next 3 releases do not concentrate on bugfixes and giving users choice in the repos... it won't matter, I will have switched to something else.
I think they need to focus on bugs *as well* as features. If they don't already, they should set up a team devoted to bugs and smoothing things out.

---

