---
title: "10.10: Maverick Meerkat - Like the name?"
date: 2010-04-03
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Dayofswords on 2010-04-03
10.10 is going to be Maverick Meerkat

read about it here
[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/336](http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/336)

> Our mascot for 10.10 is the Maverick Meerkat.

This is a time of change, and we&#8217;re not afraid to surprise people with a bold move if the opportunity for dramatic improvement presents itself. We want to put Ubuntu and free software on every single consumer PC that ships from a major manufacturer, the ultimate maverick move. We will deliver on time, but we have huge scope for innovation in what we deliver this cycle. Once we have released the LTS we have plenty of room to shake things up a little. Let&#8217;s hear the best ideas, gather the best talent, and be a little radical in how we approach the next two year major cycle.

Opinions?

---

### Post by louis--taylor on 2010-04-03
I like it! It is more light hearted that other names.

---

### Post by kellemes on 2010-04-03
hate it

---

### Post by RabbitWho on 2010-04-03
That's the best name I've ever heard. That's so awesome. 

Like you said, light hearted, plus it expresses the nature of the non LTS releases, adjectives like "gutsy" "feisty" "jaunty" "maverick" are suggestive, and almost a warning if you pay attention. "Lucid" and "Hardy" are nice and safe. The others are exciting! 
And i adore meerkats. ADORE. 
[http://www.ozziecreations.com/images/meerkats_1024.jpg](http://www.ozziecreations.com/images/meerkats_1024.jpg)

They evolved to be able to stand on their back legs to look over the tall grasses in the habitats they live (just like people.. unless you believe the whole aquatic apes theory) . They can see far around them despite being small (and adorable). Much further than all the other small creatures around them. 

And they're clever and fast moving and stripey and everybody knows them. 

It's awesome.

---

### Post by arnab_das on 2010-04-03
hehe could have been worse if u know what i mean :D

---

### Post by Dayofswords on 2010-04-03
> **arnab_das said:**
> hehe could have been worse if u know what i mean :D
...no i dont =p

---

### Post by louis--taylor on 2010-04-03
> [QUOTE] Originally Posted by arnab_das  View Post
hehe could have been worse if u know what i mean 	
	 	 
...no i dont =p[/QUOTE]

Nether do I :)

---

### Post by darthmob on 2010-04-03
I don't care. I have never been a fan of those names as I never know which one I'm currently running. Version numbers are so much easier to remember and recognise in my opion. ;)

---

### Post by Penguin Guy on 2010-04-03
'Ubuntu: Maverick Meercat' doesn't quite have the same ring to it as 'Arch Linux 2010' or 'Fedora 12'. I think the names are one of things that seriously let Ubuntu down.

---

### Post by arnab_das on 2010-04-03
> **louis--taylor said:**
> Nether do I :)

erm... m*st*rb*t*ng monkey (sorry). :D

---

### Post by arnab_das on 2010-04-03
> **Penguin Guy said:**
> 'Ubuntu: Maverick Meercat' doesn't quite have the same ring to it as 'Arch Linux 2010' or 'Fedora 12'. I think the names are one of things that seriously let Ubuntu down.

who cares really? coz everyone's gonna call it 10.10 anyway.

---

### Post by louis--taylor on 2010-04-03
> 'Ubuntu: Maverick Meercat' doesn't quite have the same ring to it as 'Arch Linux 2010' or 'Fedora 12'. I think the names are one of things that seriously let Ubuntu down.

> who cares really? coz everyone's gonna call it 10.10 anyway.

I feel that these names are important, they give each and every release a personality which you can remember. Eg I know started with hardy heron, but I can never remember the version number.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2010-04-03
How will the poor English speakers mutilate the pronunciation of Meerkat?

---

### Post by pluviosity on 2010-04-03
I do not like it for one reason.  Not to bring up politics, but it makes me think of two self-described "mavericks" from the last US presidential election.

---

### Post by MooPi on 2010-04-03
I can't wait until they've run out of actual animals and start using mystical beasts. How does Beaudacious Bugbear sound? I'd like to get used to Lucid Lynx before I start to think about the next version.

---

### Post by Doctor Mike on 2010-04-03
My personal opinion matters very little. But I think it sucks. What the rest of the world thinks matters. This may be masculine bias, but I think the folks over at MS will be laughing so hard they will fall out of their chairs, breaking vital body parts, resulting in a law suite filed by MS due to the resulting productivity loss. I think I remember a code name Chicago. That is a tough city, a Lynx is a tough cat, Lucid is a little confusing and I don't know what people are thinking. I can move buttons if I wish, but I would have to create my own distribution to change the name.

---

### Post by fillintheblanks on 2010-04-03
> **pluviosity said:**
> I do not like it for one reason.  Not to bring up politics, but it makes me think of two self-described "mavericks" from the last US presidential election.
well its not as bad as Socialist Saviour.

---

### Post by bluelamp999 on 2010-04-03
I don't instinctively like it but I'm sure I'll get used to it...

It follows the convention where LTS releases have (relatively) serious names suggesting rugged stability - E.g. 'Hardy', 'Lucid'...

Intervening releases always have more fanciful names - E.g. 'Intrepid', 'Jaunty', 'Karmic', 'Maverick'

---

### Post by chessnerd on 2010-04-03
Not bad, not great. I'll probably skip Maverick Meerkat unless there are any big upgrades from Lucid Lynx. I know that on my OptiPlex desktop it'll be running Lubuntu Lucid Lynx (L^3?) until at least 2012 depending on how the next LTS looks. My other computers will vary based on how good I think subsequent releases look. A desktop that I recently got from my aunt will probably be used for testing those releases. My laptop will then only use the ones that I see a good level of improvement in.

---

### Post by Nicolas.Perrault on 2010-04-03
@dayofswords:

Avatar thief! o_O
(I'm joking, don't take it personally)

---

### Post by sky net on 2010-04-03
i'v never liked any name of ubuntu !!
all r just ****
i like using numbers !!

---

### Post by Uncle Spellbinder on 2010-04-03
Yep. I prefer ***10.10***

---

### Post by phibxr on 2010-04-03
> **Dayofswords said:**
> 10.10 is going to be Maverick Meerkat

read about it here
[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/336](http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/336)



Opinions?

Some big plans for 10.10 there, indeed. I've got no problems with the name at all, especially since we got the story behind it. :)

---

### Post by coolbrook on 2010-04-03
Muting Miley!

---

### Post by PhilGil on 2010-04-03
I think it's a fine name, but I don't have an issue with Ubuntu's silly animal names (or Debian's releases named after Toy Story characters, or the goofy program names that seem to populate the Linux universe).

A bit of whimsy is a good thing.

---

### Post by tica vun on 2010-04-03
Meh, I don't care. From what I understand, the "$animal $adjective" names are just unofficial development codenames anyway. Why they even get widespread use in the non-developer community is beyond me. The current version of ubuntu is called "9.10". The one currently in development is "10.04 LTS". I don't see the problem with this.

---

### Post by gemmakaru on 2010-04-03
I really love the new name, I think the names bring personality to the otherwise boredom of the numbers.  Ok the numbers are important but the names are cool.  The only name I didn't like was hoary but that was a long time ago.  My fave name is Karmic because my karma is my most precious possession, the one thing I will keep when I die.  But that's another topic.

---

### Post by arnab_das on 2010-04-03
> **coolbrook said:**
> Muting Miley!

couldnt have been better! :D

---

### Post by J_Stanton on 2010-04-03
[http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-10-10-a-k-a-Maverick-Meerkat-139104.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-10-10-a-k-a-Maverick-Meerkat-139104.shtml) flame away.

---

### Post by Naitsirhc Hsem on 2010-04-03
They could not do better than Maverick Merecat?  it sounds like a bad Palin slogan!  They did a good job with Lucid Lynx, at least it sounds cool. :p

---

### Post by overdrank on 2010-04-03
Threads merged and no need to flame. :)

---

### Post by lisati on 2010-04-03
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-uPAHF-e8zk](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-uPAHF-e8zk)

---

### Post by Dayofswords on 2010-04-03
> **Nicolas.Perrault said:**
> @dayofswords:

Avatar thief! o_O
(I'm joking, don't take it personally)

i made this one myself, i noticed yours a few days ago, it probably coincidence, it is kinda basic =p

> **tica vun said:**
> Meh, I don't care. From what I understand, the "$animal $adjective" names are just unofficial development codenames anyway. Why they even get widespread use in the non-developer community is beyond me. The current version of ubuntu is called "9.10". The one currently in development is "10.04 LTS". I don't see the problem with this.
no problem (unless this is from merged thread) just wondering what people think of the development name

---

### Post by MaxIBoy on 2010-04-04
[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/336](http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/336)
What were they thinking?! This is probably the first truly *bad* Ubuntu code name.

---

### Post by MichealH on 2010-04-04
The only issue I can pick from it it is longer than the codename even Intrepid so I wouldn't exactly want to say Want to test "maverick"

---

### Post by overdrank on 2010-04-04
Threads merged

---

### Post by l.billon on 2010-04-04
Definitely like it, Meerkats are so cute!

---

### Post by Jaecyn42 on 2010-04-04
I like Meerkats.  :(

Perhaps "Maverick" isn't the best adjective they could have use, but there seems to be a lot more negatively connotative M adjectives than positive.

Macabre Meerkat, Maniacal Meerkat, Mediocre Meerkat, Melancholy Meerkat, Monotonous Meerkat, Myopic Meerkat...you get the idea.

Maybe Melodious Meerkat?

---

### Post by gnomeuser on 2010-04-04
It doesn't really roll of the tongue nicely, but I don't much mind. The code names are just there for a bit of fun and some internal reference during development. The official release name is still 10.10 just like Lucid Lynx will be 10.04.

---

### Post by yabbadabbadont on 2010-04-04
> **Jaecyn42 said:**
> I like Meerkats.  :(

Perhaps "Maverick" isn't the best adjective they could have use, but there seems to be a lot more negatively connotative M adjectives than positive.

Macabre Meerkat, Maniacal Meerkat, Mediocre Meerkat, Melancholy Meerkat, Monotonous Meerkat, Myopic Meerkat...you get the idea.

Maybe Melodious Meerkat?

I would have preferred "Marvelous Meerkat".  It has a more positive ring to it.

(I'm still miffed that they didn't go with Loony Lycanthrope for the next LTS release.  :D)

---

### Post by MaxIBoy on 2010-04-04
I like the "Macabre Meerkat" idea. Or how about "Musty Mold?"

---

### Post by darrenn on 2010-04-04
Maverick **B**eerkat would have sparked a lot more conversation.

---

### Post by chriswyatt on 2010-04-04
Would'n't say I hate it, hate's a strong word.  But I can't say I particularly like it that much, actually I don't like it.

---

### Post by whiskeylover on 2010-04-05
I can see 11.04 from my house!

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-04-05
I like the animal, but the little I've read about this OS indicates may be a completely new line of development , and thats exciting. I will most likely refer to it MM or 10.10.

---

### Post by PuddingKnife on 2010-04-05
Marauding Manbearpig

---

### Post by Nickedynick on 2010-04-05
Giving each release a name (even if it is only really for development) makes the OS seem more appealing to newcomers. It just feels more natural than things like 'OS X' and 'Windows 7', and for that reason alone it's a good idea.

What someone said earlier about not remembering the numbers, but remembering that they started on Hardy Heron is very true. I started on Feisty Fawn - it takes me a while to work out if that was 7.04 or 7.10.

Maverick Meerkat didn't sound amazing to start with, but I'm definitely warming to it. Especially since it will more than likely reflect its character as a release.

---

### Post by texpat on 2010-04-05
I think that the version names are rather meaningless outside the community (this is not to say they aren't important, though). The 6 month version cycle makes it difficult to use them as a marketing tool (brand recognition and so on) to anyone not already using Ubuntu. Version numbers are much better for that task. But version numbers are much less fun, too.

---

### Post by Crunchy the Headcrab on 2010-04-05
I like it.

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2010-04-11
> **yabbadabbadont said:**
> 
(I'm still miffed that they didn't go with Loony Lycanthrope for the next LTS release.  :D)

The "Crazy Werewolf"?

#-o

---

### Post by keithpeter on 2010-04-11
Hello All

I just tend to ignore the animal names and go with the year.month convention. 

The only Meerkat's I've seen were in a wildlife park in Yorkshire. They were funny to watch but they STANK.

---

### Post by Lightstar on 2010-04-11
I don't like it

Maverick sounds too normal, it's not up to par with ubuntu's awesomeness.

"Meerkat" I like.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-04-11
?

---

