---
title: "Boy Bags Wild Hog Bigger Than 'Hogzilla'"
date: 2007-06-04
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by RAV TUX on 2007-06-04
Old news but still interesting, Thats one huge pig!

May 25 04:21 PM US/Eastern
By KATE BRUMBACK
Associated Press Writer
> 

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=34269&d=1180930757[/IMG]

MONTGOMERY, Ala. (AP) - Hogzilla is being made into a horror movie. But the sequel may be even bigger: Meet Monster Pig. An 11-year-old Alabama boy used a pistol to kill a wild hog his father says weighed a staggering 1,051 pounds and measured 9-feet-4 from the tip of its snout to the base of its tail. Think hams as big as car tires.

If the claims are accurate, Jamison Stone's trophy boar would be bigger than Hogzilla, the famed wild hog that grew to seemingly mythical proportions after being killed in south Georgia in 2004.

Hogzilla originally was thought to weigh 1,000 pounds and measure 12 feet in length. National Geographic experts who unearthed its remains believe the animal actually weighed about 800 pounds and was 8 feet long.

Regardless of the comparison, Jamison is reveling in the attention over his pig, which has a Web site put up by his father&#8212;[http://www.monsterpig.com](http://www.monsterpig.com) &#8212;that is generating Internet buzz.

"It feels really good," Jamison, of Pickensville, said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. "It's a good accomplishment. I probably won't ever kill anything else that big."

Jamison, who killed his first deer at age 5, was hunting with father Mike Stone and two guides in east Alabama on May 3 when he bagged Hogzilla II. He said he shot the huge animal eight times with a .50- caliber revolver and chased it for three hours through hilly woods before finishing it off with a point-blank shot.

Through it all there was the fear that the animal would turn and charge them, as wild boars have a reputation of doing.

"I was a little bit scared, a little bit excited," said Jamison, who just finished the sixth grade on the honor roll at Christian Heritage Academy, a small, private school.

His father said that, just to be extra safe, he and the guides had high-powered rifles aimed and ready to fire in case the beast with 5- inch tusks decided to charge.

With the pig finally dead in a creek bed on the 2,500-acre Lost Creek Plantation, a commercial hunting preserve in Delta, trees had to be cut down and a backhoe brought in to bring Jamison's prize out of the woods.

It was hauled on a truck to the Clay County Farmers Exchange in Lineville, where Jeff Kinder said they used his scale, which was recently calibrated, to weigh the hog.

Kinder, who didn't witness the weigh-in, said he was baffled to hear the reported weight of 1,051 pounds because his scale&#8212;an old, manual style with sliding weights&#8212;only measures to the nearest 10.

"I didn't quite understand that," he said.

Mike Stone said the scale balanced one notch past the 1,050-pound mark, and he thought it meant a weight of 1,051 pounds.

"It probably weighed 1,060 pounds. We were just afraid to change it once the story was out," he said.

The hog's head is now being mounted on an extra-large foam form by Jerry Cunningham of Jerry's Taxidermy in Oxford. Cunningham said the animal measured 54 inches around the head, 74 inches around the shoulders and 11 inches from the eyes to the end of its snout.

"It's huge," he said. "It's just the biggest thing I've ever seen."

Mike Stone is having sausage made from the rest of the animal. "We'll probably get 500 to 700 pounds," he said.

Jamison, meanwhile, has been offered a small part in "The Legend of Hogzilla," a small-time horror flick based on the tale of the Georgia boar. The movie is holding casting calls with plans to begin filming in Georgia.

Jamison is enjoying the newfound celebrity generated by the hog hunt, but he said he prefers hunting pheasants to monster pigs.

"They are a little less dangerous."

___

On the Net:

[http://www.monsterpig.com](http://www.monsterpig.com)

[http://www.thelegendofhogzillathemovie.com](http://www.thelegendofhogzillathemovie.com)

---

Associated Press writer Jay Reeves in Birmingham contributed to this report

---

### Post by mills on 2007-06-04
hmmm... photoshop? maybe crouching 5-10 feet behind it to create an optical illusion?

i cant find any other photo's online, surely there would be stacks of em and video footage if this was real.

maybe iam just a cynic

---

### Post by slimdog360 on 2007-06-04
Another plus for humanity, killing innocent phenomenons.

---

### Post by Feba on 2007-06-04
I've seen this on CNN, but lord knows they've carried stupid internet **** as fact before.

---

### Post by mills on 2007-06-04
> **Feba said:**
> I've seen this on CNN, but lord knows they've carried stupid internet **** as fact before.

did cnn show footage of the beast?

---

### Post by Feba on 2007-06-04
just the photo, naturally

---

### Post by mips on 2007-06-04
> **mills said:**
> did cnn show footage of the beast?


Yes, a photo a few days ago.

---

### Post by mips on 2007-06-04
> **slimdog360 said:**
> Another plus for humanity, killing innocent phenomenons.


And he was pretty humane about it as well:
> He said he shot the huge animal eight times with a .50- caliber revolver and chased it for three hours through hilly woods before finishing it off with a point-blank shot.

If this is in fact real then don't people think a wonder of nature would be more valuable alive than dead and stuffed to mount on someones wall as a trophy ?

---

### Post by HotShotDJ on 2007-06-04
Pig was real -- [But not a Wild Hog](http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20070602/ap_on_re_us/monster_pig) -- it was a domestic, farm-raised pig.  It was hunted by the boy in a 150 acre fenced hunting preserve.  That notwithstanding, I'm sure it was quite an exciting hunting excursion for the boy and his father, and it was certainly a huge pig

---

### Post by slimdog360 on 2007-06-04
So chances are it was tame also. I hate to say it but for those Americans wondering why the rest of us look at you a bit wierd when it comes to guns, this story says it all. But thats not ignoring the fact that most/all other countries hunt.

---

### Post by Feba on 2007-06-04
I see no problem with people owning or using guns, I could even live with sport hunting although I think it's stupid, it's people that give 11 year olds guns that indicates we have a problem.

---

