---
title: ".dmrc"
date: 2018-04-11
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by crazypiglady on 2018-04-11
Hi. I'd like to say thanks to drs305 for solving the (ancient) question of .dmrc permissions. I can't do it directly for some reason. i believe its because i haven't made enough posts.  .. which is surely a reason to make loads of random posts?

anyway. thanks. this was really quite annoying. clearly not a major problem but grr.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2018-04-11
Do you mean this thread?

[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=976610](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=976610)

If so, the reason you can't post to it is quite simple - it's closed. It has been for years. Old threads are autoclosed after 1 year's inactivity to prevent the recurring scourge of pointless necromancy. However, the staff would always look sympathetically at a request to re-open a thread if there is a good reason. But simply recording thanks is not - it simply encourages aforesaid necromancy, unfortunately. If you really want to thank someone, why not pm them? I'm sure drs305 is still around and able to read pm's. That is an excellent thread and I, too, have had reason to be grateful for it in the past.

On the subject of making numerous random posts, I would advise you not to. That is, if you don't want to be dealt with the way we deal with spammers. With a post count of 18 there are no restrictions on your posting privileges. However, you may wish to acquaint yourself with our <10 post (not 18) restriction:

[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2034393](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2034393)

Just over halfway down is where is detailed how what we describe as "bean-miners" may be dealt with.

---

### Post by QIII on 2018-04-11
Even after 10 posts, making a habit of randomly posting tidbits of useless content will quickly draw Staff sharks.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2018-04-11
And just to add yet more...

I see that since starting this thread, you have changed your forum email address (yet again) but not yet re-activated your account. You certainly won't be able to post anywhere until you do so, by clicking on the link in the verification email sent to your new email address.

---

