---
title: "8.04.1 LTS to 8.10 a good move??"
date: 2008-10-08
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by sydbat on 2008-10-08
I'm not sure if this has been asked and discussed to death (likely, but I did not find it with the 'search' function). If so, please move to Recurring Discussions or simply delete.

With Hardy being the LTS, is it prudent to upgrade to Intrepid "just because"? 

What I mean is, Hardy is fully supported until mid 2011. Intrepid will only be supported for 18 months (about mid 2010). The next LTS is set for 2010 sometime.

Now I fully understand that I do not have to upgrade until I really want to, but will 8.10 be worth the upgrade? Are the features going to be that much improved that not upgrading will make me hate life :-P?

I also know that newer versions of some software will be included in 8.10. Does this mean that they will function better with 8.10 than 8.04.1?

I am asking these questions seriously because I am trying to make an informed decision for myself and others who rely on me for their tech support.

Thanks to all who post their opinions/answers.

---

### Post by bufsabre666 on 2008-10-08
well if hardy works for you use it, im ganna be upgrading cause im not using pay support, i use community support so staying with the most recent is usally a good choice

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-10-08
For me it looks like there isnt too much intrepid offers so no I would not upgrade.
It looks like Ibex is going to be a dud though.

---

### Post by sydbat on 2008-10-08
> **SunnyRabbiera said:**
> For me it looks like there isnt too much intrepid offers so no I would not upgrade.
It looks like Ibex is going to be a dud though.In what way?

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-10-08
> **sydbat said:**
> In what way?

Well the features are not that much of an improvement, I mean sure there is the tabs in nautilus now and some new compiz plugins but overall I am not liking where Ibex is headed.
Its actually missing features too, like a decent screen resolution configuration app and from what I can see by testing the beta's I dont think Ibex will be that thrilling.
I know its a beta, but usually by that time I can tell what is a good release and what is not...
Ibex will falter by the looks of it.

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-10-08
> **sydbat said:**
> I'm not sure if this has been asked and discussed to death (likely, but I did not find it with the 'search' function). If so, please move to Recurring Discussions or simply delete.

With Hardy being the LTS, is it prudent to upgrade to Intrepid "just because"? 

What I mean is, Hardy is fully supported until mid 2011. Intrepid will only be supported for 18 months (about mid 2010). The next LTS is set for 2010 sometime.

Now I fully understand that I do not have to upgrade until I really want to, but will 8.10 be worth the upgrade? Are the features going to be that much improved that not upgrading will make me hate life :-P?

I also know that newer versions of some software will be included in 8.10. Does this mean that they will function better with 8.10 than 8.04.1?

I am asking these questions seriously because I am trying to make an informed decision for myself and others who rely on me for their tech support.

Thanks to all who post their opinions/answers.

For me the biggest plus is tabbed browsing in nautilus, better pulseaudio and newer software in the repos.

Also it's a bit faster.

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-10-08
> **bufsabre666 said:**
> well if hardy works for you use it, im ganna be upgrading cause im not using pay support, i use community support so staying with the most recent is usally a good choice

That's true.

---

### Post by jespdj on 2008-10-08
> **SunnyRabbiera said:**
> It looks like Ibex is going to be a dud though.
How long have you been using Ubuntu? How many new releases have you gone through?

This happens with every new release of Ubuntu: there are users who are spreading FUD that "the new release is going to be a dud" weeks before the release is actually out. I've seen this with every single new release since I started using Ubuntu (since 6.06).

Stop with spreading this kind of FUD. You don't know if Ibex is "a dud". Ibex is not out yet, so you can't know. If the alpha or beta versions don't work on your hardware for some reason, that's no guarantee that the final release won't work.

And if it doesn't work on your computer, it does not mean that it doesn't work for everybody. You cannot say that the whole release is "a dud".

---

### Post by jespdj on 2008-10-08
And now, about the OP's question: I'm probably going to upgrade to 8.10 sometime, but I'm not going to do it immediately when it comes out.

I use my computer for serious work, and it's important for me to have a working and stable system. I'm going to download and test Ibex thouroughly before I'm upgrading my main system to it.

---

### Post by david_lynch on 2008-10-08
The 8.10 beta looks nice on my test box. It's fast, it has interesting new features, and for the first time, the crappy old ATI card is working fairly well.

I'll probably upgrade my laptop and desktop, but my servers, and my work desktop will stay on 8.04.1 since I need 3rd party software like lotus notes to work.

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2008-10-08
I'm sure better wireless and 3G support will not be considered a dud for those who have had to struggle to get them set up in earlier releases.


.

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2008-10-08
I will probably leave my Ubuntu Server as-is (not sure they are going to release it in-between LTSs even) since it's a server and doesn't need to be the hottest technology.

For my laptop, on the other hand, I may or may not depending on the circumstances.

I may end up skipping this release and just planning on upgrading to 9.04 (Jackalope) which looks like it will have some added features (faster boot, etc.).  Also, at that time some apps may have improved significantly enough to be worth upgrading to.

If Ubuntu follows a 1 release with big improvements followed by a release that is "clean up" and add a few features and then the next is another "whoa!" then that is a pattern I can accept.

---

### Post by Changturkey on 2008-10-08
> **Dragonbite said:**
> I will probably leave my Ubuntu Server as-is (not sure they are going to release it in-between LTSs even) since it's a server and doesn't need to be the hottest technology.

For my laptop, on the other hand, I may or may not depending on the circumstances.

I may end up skipping this release and just planning on upgrading to 9.04 (Jackalope) which looks like it will have some added features (faster boot, etc.).  Also, at that time some apps may have improved significantly enough to be worth upgrading to.

If Ubuntu follows a 1 release with big improvements followed by a release that is "clean up" and add a few features and then the next is another "whoa!" then that is a pattern I can accept.

I've noticed the pattern of like, stable->cutting edge/buggy->refined->cutting edge, ect.

---

### Post by Mazza558 on 2008-10-08
Ibex doesn't offer much new, but almost feels like another LTS release. It's what Hardy should have been IMO. Lots of new driver support (broadcom wireless is just one of the additions). It feels snappier than Hardy to me too.

---

### Post by conundrumx on 2008-10-08
Intrepid looks good to me in a number of ways, and I will probably pick it up, depending on free time.  I'm in the same boat as a previous poster in that the machine I have HH installed on (my laptop) makes my job much easier, and having it out of commission would suck.

New Flash (if you feel uncomfortable doing the install yourself), new drivers, new GNOME...  Intrepid is looking quite good to me.

---

### Post by sydbat on 2008-10-08
Thanks for all the replies!

Since I have 2 boxes (one 32bit, one 64bit) I think I'll upgrade the 32bit box and "test" it to see if it is worth upgrading the other. My 64bit box is, as jespdj states> ...my computer for serious work, and it's important for me to have a working and stable system.I do not want to jeopardize the setup I have never had a big problem with.

---

### Post by danbuter on 2008-10-08
I recommend waiting 2 weeks after release. It's kinda surprising just how many updates get shot out the first 2 weeks after a release. Many, if not most, of which are bug-fixes.

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2008-10-08
Have been using Ibex since Alpha 3 and i'll be sticking with it. IMO Ibex has much better Hardware support especially for Laptops than Hardy did.

---

### Post by Zero Prime on 2008-10-08
I'll try it out just to see if my new AMD chipset works better.  Right now my front USB ports don't work at all in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Luffield on 2008-10-08
I upgraded about a week ago. I intended not to, because Hardy worked well on my machine (desktop) but I just couldn't resist the temptation any longer :-\
Well, I was better off with Hardy, because Intrepid is more buggy at this stage (well, it's still in beta so it makes sense). I have issues with annoying graphics artifacts, Firefox is slightly less stable (Flash issue, I think), sometimes my mouse cursor doesn't move after boot, or Gnome-Do doesn't work (how am I supposed to live without it?), I had to reconfigure my internet connection because network manager was upgraded and I messed up the new config... It does get better, though. The updates keep coming and I some of the problems are going away.
New features: I didn't really see too many of those. I can't really think of anything that makes me feel that the upgrade was worthwhile. I don't think Intrepid will make anyone go "Wow" (that's what Vista is for ;-)) but I think it will turn out to be a solid release in three weeks' time - but probably not as good as Hardy.

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2008-10-08
> **sydbat said:**
> What I mean is, Hardy is fully supported until mid 2011. Intrepid will only be supported for 18 months (about mid 2010). The next LTS is set for 2010 sometime. ...But will 8.10 be worth the upgrade? You may have answered your own question, honestly. If you need a machine with consistent stability over an exceptionally long time, stick with Hardy. If you don't mind trying out the new stuff and anticipating another upgrade in a year and a half, make the change. It'll probably depend on your system and its purpose.

> **SunnyRabbiera said:**
> It looks like Ibex is going to be a dud though.I'm surprised, Sunny. That's an unusually pessimistic comment for you.

> **Sealbhach said:**
> I'm sure better wireless and 3G support will not be considered a dud for those who have had to struggle to get them set up in earlier releases.
And that's the key: For people who had to/have to struggle with certain parts of standing editions, an upgrade is very appealing. However, if your machines purr along without needing any major tuning, then new releases are a bit ho-hum.

---

### Post by Luffield on 2008-10-19
I must say that since my last post the developers have been doing kickass job and most of the bugs I had are already gone. Currently my Intrepid installation is about as good as Hardy was when it was released (before it was 8.04.1) and I'm very happy with it.

---

### Post by eragon100 on 2008-10-19
> **SunnyRabbiera said:**
> Well the features are not that much of an improvement, I mean sure there is the tabs in nautilus now and some new compiz plugins but overall I am not liking where Ibex is headed.
Its actually missing features too, like a decent screen resolution configuration app and from what I can see by testing the beta's I dont think Ibex will be that thrilling.
I know its a beta, but usually by that time I can tell what is a good release and what is not...
Ibex will falter by the looks of it.

Pulseaudio is "uncrappified", which on its own makes this release worthwile IMHO :)

---

### Post by ghindo on 2008-10-19
I've been using 8.10 since like Alpha 3 or 4 and I dig it.  It might not be an astronomical leap from 8.04, but there are definitely still features that I really like:[LIST]
[*]Tabbed Nautilus browsing
[*]Better hardware support
[*]Newer software in the repositories (which is especially nice for Flash, rsync, Gnome Do, NetworkManager)[/LIST]You can either take or it leave it, but I think it's advantageous to upgrade.

---

### Post by david_lynch on 2008-10-19
For servers, you might as well stay on 8.04 LTS, but on laptops and desktops, 8.10 shines, and has enough improvements to warrant upgrading, unless you have some mandatory app that works on 8.04 but not 8.10. 

My laptop is on intrepid and liking it. I need to find out if Lotus Notes likes 8.10 and hopefully upgrade my desktop at the office as well.

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-10-19
> **K.Mandla said:**
> You may have answered your own question, honestly. If you need a machine with consistent stability over an exceptionally long time, stick with Hardy. If you don't mind trying out the new stuff and anticipating another upgrade in a year and a half, make the change. It'll probably depend on your system and its purpose.
This just about sums everything up.

Whether it's a good move depends on what is most important to you. If stability is the most important factor then stick with an LTS release. Typically this is a wise move on servers.

If new and developing features, improvements etc are what you'd like then following each new release is the way to go. And, if the possibility of bugs worries you then you could always wait a few weeks until the release settles down.

And of course if you want to be at the bleeding edge of Ubuntu develepment then you install the alpha and beta releases, though this certainly isn't recommended for the average user.

I usually install the new version each time it is officially released. I've never really had any problems doing this.

:cool:

---

### Post by visionaire on 2008-10-19
for me is good to format my HD every 6 month for a cleaning

so i always do a fresh install

i have all my movies mp3, pics etc in an external HD so no problem there =)

---

### Post by Mr. Picklesworth on 2008-10-19
> **SunnyRabbiera said:**
> Well the features are not that much of an improvement, I mean sure there is the tabs in nautilus now and some new compiz plugins but overall I am not liking where Ibex is headed.

But that is exactly the point! Ibex has an amazing amount of polish compared to most releases. There has been a healthy focus on removing deprecated junk and on fixing nagging little things.

Some stuff:
-Sound themes (as in the FreeDesktop spec).
-NetworkManager 0.7, which is a nice piece of software
-Newer (nicer) GIMP by default
-Newer and nicer F-Spot
-Better audio configuration

Little things like that :)

---

### Post by stmiller on 2008-10-19
There are mega-improvements in the latest 8.10 for a desktop user, from tons of more wifi drivers, more webcam drivers, newer version of Xorg, and tons of other stuff.

8.10 feels more like a LTS release to me. I've heard others say that too. It is too bad the LTS was 8.04.

---

### Post by kk0sse54 on 2008-10-19
There's a ton of new improvements for the struggling user but for me Hardy worked perfectly fine and I have yet to see any benefits from switching to Ibex. For the most part nothing much has changed, it's not slower it's not faster for me. The only reason I installed it was because the distro hopper within me can't resist the temptation of a new release.

---

### Post by jsmidt on 2008-10-19
I've been using Ubuntu since the Hoary release in 2005.  Experience has taught me a few things:

1.  If you are not running a server or something you need to be incredibly stable it is always best to upgrade.

2.  Unless you want to experience bugs that annoy you, wait a month or two after the official release before you upgrade.

     For every release since Hoary (and you can check), the day the new version is released there is a lot of complaining by people saying it isn't ready.  They say this because there are *always* still several annoying bugs that were not fixed by the official release.  However, after a month or so the complaints go away as the devs eventually get to fixing the major showstoppers.  After this, it is a wonderful idea to upgrade. 

I personally always test the beta versions.  However, I will wait until about Thanksgiving time at the end of November before I will upgrade the personal computers I depend on to get work done.

---

### Post by jflaker on 2008-10-19
Been dabbling with Ubuntu since 6.06LTS.....Made the plunge with 7.10 and upgraded to 8.04 about a week after the big rush which swamped the servers....

So far, knock on wood, no real issues that were show stoppers.  More inconvenience than anything.

Also, you should have the option of booting a previous kernel at boot up should you really have something messed up....

---

### Post by Paqman on 2008-10-19
There's really only one way to answer the question: try it on your machine. If there are regressions on your hardware, stick to the status quo. If not, upgrade.

Intrepid does have a lot of nice little tweaks. The guest account and the "last good boot" option in Grub are handy features.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2008-10-19
> **eragon100 said:**
> pulseaudio is "uncrappified", which on its own makes this release worthwile imho :)
+100

---

### Post by zool2005 on 2008-10-20
Personally I've just upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10 beta. It's the first time I've upgraded to a beta and I'm already impressed. It feels more refined and super stable.
Applications open faster and the whole system just feels snappier.
I was disappointed with Hardy but Intrepid Ibex has renewed my faith in Ubuntu. Keep up the good work!=D>

---

### Post by Chame_Wizard on 2008-10-20
Gonna do a clean install from Kubuntu 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon to  8.10 Hardy Heron(cause of the kernel)  :guitar:

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2008-10-20
> **zool2005 said:**
>  It feels more refined and super stable.
Applications open faster and the whole system just feels snappier.

Same here, feels much faster, boots up and shuts down quicker.
Some nice new features - very pleased.


.

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2008-10-20
I've got 8.10 beta on a USB stick here so I'm going to check it out for a while before upgrading my computer (to make sure the "coast is clear" and other people have run across any blaring issues).

So far it looks good. I got nervous for a moment when it didn't detect the wifi card that 8.04 detected but that was because there is a hardware switch to turn it (and bluetooth) on or off and it was off. :oops:

The only thing that may make me hold off is to wait for some of the 3rd party application I use to be available (Picasa, IBM Symphony, Pencil).

---

