---
title: "10.4 why are taskbar icons black?"
date: 2010-04-27
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by TDK800 on 2010-04-27
Just upgraded from 9.10 to 10.4 and weather app icons are now black in the taskbar - clouds are black, sun is black, tried various themes in appeareances, but unable to change it. Also the start menu icon, pidgin/mail icon, network manager icon, volume icon - all are black.

From color to black and white is a step back imho.

---

### Post by koleoptero on 2010-04-27
> **TDK800 said:**
> Just upgraded from 9.10 to 10.4 and weather app icons are now black in the taskbar - clouds are black, sun is black, tried various themes in appeareances, but unable to change it. Also the start menu icon, pidgin/mail icon, network manager icon, volume icon - all are black.

From color to black and white is a step back imho.

Monochrome panel icons give a more uniform look on the desktop.

imnsho :P

---

### Post by antenna on 2010-04-27
They look great to me.  Can't please everyone I suppose. :neutral:

---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2010-04-27
> **TDK800 said:**
> Just upgraded from 9.10 to 10.4 and weather app icons are now black in the taskbar - clouds are black, sun is black, tried various themes in appeareances, but unable to change it. Also the start menu icon, pidgin/mail icon, network manager icon, volume icon - all are black.

From color to black and white is a step back imho.

They are part of the icon theme. If you do not like them change your Icon theme.

---

### Post by spilius on 2010-05-02
What bothers me is that so many icons are still in color and do not fit in the monochrome icon panel at all.

Take for example Shutter, MiroTV or Banshee.

---

### Post by Foster Grant on 2010-05-02
> **spilius said:**
> What bothers me is that so many icons are still in color and do not fit in the monochrome icon panel at all.

Take for example Shutter, MiroTV or Banshee.

Or OpenOffice's quickstarter applet, which is not only in color but carries its own background color around, as well.

---

### Post by topnob on 2010-05-04
yeah my pidgin, dropbox and network icons are all the wrong background colors for the taskbar... they just look dodgy now.

---

