---
title: "10.04 - Love and Hate"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by jpmaglutac on 2010-04-30
Just a topic where you can post what you love most and hate most about Ubuntu Lucid Lynx ;)

Love - The interface :D I've always disliked the brown interface of the previous releases, and, just my luck, 10.04 comes out in my favorite color! Same goes for the startup, windows, etc etc

Hate - I really hate the total integration done for the "social from start" feature. Sure it works for most people, but I myself dislike empathy (pidgin works better with yahoo), and have no real use for the other two (evolution and gwibber). And the worst part is, when using pidgin, if I try to change my status using the indicator-me applet, it signs me out of pidgin, even after I uninstall empathy! Well, I had to uninstall that feature so I could totally ignore it, so now it's all good.

---

### Post by belkinsa on 2010-04-30
Love- Faster booting
Hate- The starter wallpaper- too bright!

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-04-30
Love - everything about it

Hate - that it doesn't make dinner for me

---

### Post by Antman on 2010-04-30
Love: 
[LIST]
[*]Faster booting... even on a HP 110c netbook
[*]Default color scheme
[*]Software center - makes it easier for new users to install stuff
[*]supports all my laptop hardware so far... but still testing
[/LIST]

Hate:
[LIST]
[*]The minimize/Maximize controls on the left side. YUCK
[/LIST]

As you can see, my love list is longer so far... :lolflag:

---

### Post by venik212 on 2010-04-30
Being a Pidgin man myself-- what and how did you uninstall what was getting in its way?

---

### Post by WannabeFantasma on 2010-04-30
I'm on it now:

Love: eerm new ubuntu?

Hate: black windows(yes i know you can change it but still :D ) , XBMC won't install :( 

>  sudo apt-get install xbmc xbmc-standalone
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Couldn't find package xbmc


---

### Post by ladypcer on 2010-04-30
Love most everything about it, except how it handles permissions. 

Left buttons can be changed to the right side using Ubuntu Tweak. It's the first thing I did.

---

### Post by lou002 on 2010-04-30
Love: Since I'm using the UNE instead of the Desktop edition on my netbook, how fast it is.

Hate: Apparently there's a bug on my **BRAND NEW** Acer Aspire One netbook with the battery; Ubuntu is saying it's 'old' or 'broken' and only has a 35.6 or 9% charge when it's not on the A/C adapter. Or, when unplugged it says I have 10 hours+ on my 6-cell battery, then down to 6 hours 25 minutes then down to 10 minutes. Worked fine in 9.10 desktop and UNE, but not 10.04.

Otherwise I love both Ubuntu Netbook Edition and 10.04!

---

### Post by Paulplex on 2010-04-30
**LOVE**:
[LIST]
[*]Quick as you like to boot
[*]hardware is detected immediately with no worries
[*]Social networking intergration
[*]Dark theme
[/LIST]

**HATE**:
All minor stuff really...
[LIST]
[*]Window controls on the wrong bloody side (until I fixed it :))
[*]Icon colours look too saturated
[/LIST]

---

### Post by venik212 on 2010-04-30
Should have been called LURID, or LUDICROUS.  
I upgraded-- when it tried to reboot at the end, it could not find the Oxygen theme (it is not there-- I checked) and stalled.  Now I have only the konsole.  So I reboot, and now it is checking the disks (press C to cancell all tests fails).
Maybe pathetic is an even better name?

---

### Post by the.dark.lord on 2010-04-30
> **venik212 said:**
> Being a Pidgin man myself-- what and how did you uninstall what was getting in its way?

I would like to know this too.

> **venik212 said:**
> Should have been called LURID, or LUDICROUS.  
I upgrades-- when it tried to reboot at the end, it could not find the Oxygen theme (it is not there-- I checked) and stalled.  Now I have only the konsole.  So I reboot, and now it is checking the disks (press C to cancell all tests fails).
Maybe pathetic is an even better name?

It's very new! Give it some time, and file a bug.

---

### Post by markinmadison on 2010-04-30
I really like how it looks, but it really sucks when the whole thing will lock up!!! Then I have to do a hard reboot.

---

### Post by markinmadison on 2010-04-30
BTW, I am going back to 9.10. It is a much safer place right now!!!

---

### Post by lockalidiot on 2010-04-30
Love. Look, feel, idea, little bugs I can fix and thus learn more.

Hate. Left side position and order of close, minimize, maximize buttons. I have yet to find a fix so I could Keep the original theme. Now using emerald theme.

---

### Post by Sandiep on 2010-04-30
[COLOR=Magenta]**Hate-  Trying to get use to the ubuntu command line prompts.. very confusing.. I'm soooo use to windows command line:(**[/COLOR]

---

### Post by castaneda on 2010-04-30
> **lockalidiot said:**
> 

Hate. Left side position and order of close, minimize, maximize buttons.

I guess the ship has sailed on this, but what a pointless design choice. Very annoying.

---

### Post by Curtiss on 2010-04-30
Love - rock solid last two days and great selection of software comes with everything an average user will need.

Hate - ubuntu one its still a disaster when it works as good as drop box then I may consider using it.

---

### Post by jpmaglutac on 2010-04-30
> **venik212 said:**
> Being a Pidgin man myself-- what and how did you uninstall what was getting in its way?

Well, it's simple really, but not very intuitive.
All you have to do is open synaptics manager and remove whatever you need to be removed.

indicator-me is for the status changer that has your username on it.
indicator-sound is, well, for the sound (if you prefer the old gnome one).
indicator-messages is for that little mail envelope.
indicator-session is for the power button; unless you have a better way of shutting down and restarting, don't remove this.

So just remove whatever you want removed and on your next bootup, it'll be gone :P If you want it back just reinstall it.

---

### Post by zappadragon on 2010-04-30
So far:

Hate:

    * The minimize/Maximize controls on the left side. YUCK

---

### Post by Ginsu543 on 2010-05-01
Love:
1) Faster boot times - no HAL + my new Intel Core i7 920 @ 4.2GHz rig = priceless
2) New color/design scheme - this is the first release I haven't felt the immediate need to change window/icon themes (I may still do so but it's something anyways)
3) New and improved Grub2 (1.98 in Lucid vs. 1.97 in Karmic) - it was much easier to customize the resolution, splash image, and text color for the grub screen
4) No need to type in a password to mount NTFS partitions - there is a workaround for this in Karmic but it's nice not having to deal with it
5) Window buttons on the left!!! - I've always preferred this since my very first computer was an Amiga

Hate:
1) Newly compiled ffmpeg (the one in the repos do not support aac, which I need) doesn't work with mplayer
2) Nabi keyboard input method system (for inputting Korean text) doesn't work
3) DVD-RW eject button on keyboard doesn't work

---

### Post by DeMus on 2010-05-01
Love: 

Hate:
Buttons in the wrong place - solved it but why do I have to do that?
Banshee does not install - dependencies not met, but will not install the right one
Rhythmbox not playing my MP3 collection
Too much concern about looks - not enough about Speed, Safety and Stability
At some boots can't find my /home partition which is on a separate drive, other times it works
Boot speed not that fantastic - just before the desktop appears I am looking at a totally black screen for 5+ seconds

I stick with my opinion that the last releases are worse than the ones before: Hardy was great, Jaunty was great but then it started to go downhill.

---

### Post by TheStatsMan on 2010-05-01
At first I had a couple of bugs, which I quickly fixed. Just little things, I had no sound, some stupid theme, wasn't automatically connecting to the internet, nothing unusual I guess for a new release. The boot and shutdown screen is as ugly as sin, but apparently this is a known bug and should be fixed in a couple of weeks. Once I got past the minor issues, I can't believe how good the new Kubuntu is. It is the best computing experience  I have ever had. Firstly the little things, like Microphone working on my Sony Vaio without me doing anything gave me a positive impression, but what was really amazing is the feel of the UI. It is fantastic. Just all these little things that make it work so well. Really impressed. Just so many little changes make a huge difference. 

Also awesome, but totally unrelated to Kubuntu is the version of Terminator in the repositories now. We can now alter the configurations directly now. No longer have to use a configuration file. 

The crap thing is I am suppose to be working today and I haven't got any work done at all. I honestly wasn't expecting it to be that good. I can't wait to upgrade my Ubuntu partition to see how it adds up.

---

### Post by linuxnoob420 on 2010-05-01
**love**
first LTS in 3 years
still ubuntu easy as hell
at last a new theme

**hate **
im not happy at all with the gdm themes (no easy way to customise them)
window buttons on the mac side  
no easy way to change the sound theme it used to be easy very easy

now im gladly using KDE 
ubuntu gnome sucks any more at least for me

---

### Post by Thomas Garman on 2010-05-01
The upgrade from 9.10 seems to be somewhere around 900MB right now and every time I boot the machine a new set of upgrades is available, so I really don't see much difference with Windows on that... the upgrade reboot upgrade reboot treadmill...

waited 10 minutes while ubuntu checked my disks... very annoying

Too much work to upgrade ubuntu every 6 months or so

NTFS partitions cannot be used the way they were in 9.10.  Now I have to open a terminal and type sudo mount...

I have only been using it for a day or so.  I like the fact that the music files still play (unlike the upgrade from 9.04 to 9.10)

---

### Post by DeMus on 2010-05-01
> **linuxnoob420 said:**
> **love**
first LTS in 3 years
still ubuntu easy as hell
at last a new theme

**hate **
im not happy at all with the gdm themes (no easy way to customise them)
window buttons on the mac side  
no easy way to change the sound theme it used to be easy very easy

now im gladly using KDE 
ubuntu gnome sucks any more at least for me

Last LTS version Hardy was in 2008, 8.04. So it is 2 years ago not 3.

---

### Post by cb951303 on 2010-05-01
love
[LIST]
[*]new wallpaper
[*]iphone support
[/LIST]
hate
[LIST]
[*]proprietary ubuntuone integration all over the desktop
[*]new theme
[*]buggy network manager ui (still? seriously?)
[*]removal of the interface tab from the appearence settings
[*]exlusion of gimp and inclusion of pitivi
[/LIST]

---

### Post by itisbasi on 2010-05-01
Love everything other than the purple boot splash!

---

### Post by powerpleb on 2010-05-01
> **linuxnoob420 said:**
> 
im not happy at all with the gdm themes (no easy way to customise them)

Try Ubuntu Tweak

**Love**
New themes
Faster booting
Indicator Applet

**Hate**
Mac style metacity buttons
Less stock configurability, i.e GDM, interface tab, etc. (really GNOME's fault rather than Ubuntu)
GRUB still no longer configurable.
Still doesnt work properly with creative x-fi

---

### Post by powerpleb on 2010-05-01
<deleted>

---

### Post by venik212 on 2010-05-01
Now that I managed to beat it to the ground and get it (sort of) working, Pidgin works fine without any special tweaks.
Texlive 2009 is another story-- totally non-functional.

---

### Post by Greymatter on 2010-05-01
Nothing to hate for me.

---

### Post by Elegia on 2010-05-01
**Love**
The smooth installation
The new theme
Ease of use
It's still Ubuntu

**Hate**
Some icons have a wrong background in the notification area, but I guess that'll be fixed in the coming days.

---

### Post by dapfy on 2010-05-11
1 - the update from kubuntu 9.10 at some point embedded a tiny (maybe 40x10) console window with grub running, asking me if some file I had never touched was to be overwritten.  Absolutely illegible diff display at that width.  I had a hard time figuring what to type to get out as (IIRC) the "ok" button was not highlighted.  That window later came back two or three times with other questions, making the update quite long.

2 - when booting the new system it tried to mount the CD, which I had removed, and waited for me to type s.  I needed to edit fstab to set /mnt to noauto

3 - thunderbird didn't find my old mail.  I needed to mv .mozilla-thunderbird .thunderbird

3 - kpackagekit had a huge empty gray area and three useless buttons.  Starting it again showed the contents.

---

### Post by Blather_X on 2010-05-17
_**Love:**_
This was by far the **easiest upgrade** (for me anyway).  I always had trouble with my vid card, and odd ball monitor.  Not this time!  As the upgrade was progressing, I kept waiting for the proverbial (What do you want to do with *"this"... *or* "that"...* "How do you want *"this"* or *"that"* configured?)  It just kept wizzing along, and pretty much left me out of the picture.  On one hand, it was kind of a "Whoo Hoo!" moment, but then again I felt a little left out because I'm one of those "gotta tweak it" kind of guys.  All in all, it was as I said before, the easiest upgrade yet.
[B]
Faster boots.[/B]

**Loads of little things** that I'm still finding.  For instance, the volume control being horizontal (and out of the way of everything) instead of vertical.   I'm a lefty so the window min/max button switch are a real treat.  
[B]
The Software center[/B]

**No password for NTFS** partitioning.  (I've got waaay too many hard drives)

There's more... but these are the highlights.
[B]

HATE:[/B]
The purple and white "splash screen"  It reminds me of the last thing you get to look at before a car wreck.  It looks like fuzzy headlights through a foggy windshield! And then the "OH... Poop!"  moment!  

I know... you can change it, and I'm working on it, but... Yikes...!

---

### Post by elessar78 on 2010-05-17
**Love**: everything--Ubuntu-tweak fixes the min/max buttons
applied new themes, updated the icons with some really cool one (Cryo64-MX Red). Upgrade went very smoothly, no issues.

**Hate**: the fact that Adobe Lightroom and Photoshop don't run on linux (gimp and bibble are really close, but no cigar) and I still have to have MS Windows for my photography work otherwise I'd be windows free.

---

### Post by screaminj3sus on 2010-05-17
Love:

Fast boot
Hardware detection
Easy to use
Notify-OSD
Monochrome notification icons

Hate:
Default theme, particularly the metacity. Padding is too huge all over the theme, huge empty space on the right of the meacity with buttons on left looks ugly as hell.

---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2010-05-17
Mostly all, what a great release! :KS

---

### Post by jfloydb on 2010-05-17
Love: That the Human-Clearlooks, brown-orange, Theme is in Synaptic.

Hate: The Purple and Pink, needs-a-unicorn, Default Theme.

a great release!

---

### Post by GarmaZed on 2010-05-17
Love:

- shocking fast boot time, ~26 seconds on budget notebook from ~3.5 years ago.
- most everything is working fine, just the VGA out is not working, and some minor issues I can fix with the webcam if I spend the time, I bet.
- I'm actually welcoming the change in the window control buttons, coming from a Windows user.

Hate:

- although this is at no fault of the developer team or Canonica, no sturdy ATI drivers is somewhat a pain.
- sometimes the panel is a bit messed up on startup, with black/blank spaces halfway over icons, or artifacts of some sort.  A log in/out usually fixes it... but I'm trying hard to find things not to like.  :)

---

### Post by afmGM on 2010-05-18
Love:

New Look
Ubuntu Software Center update
Bootup speed
Empathy's new look

Hate:

I miss the configurable Legacy GRUB :(
Some odd glitches (not shutting down and going to the login screen)

---

### Post by -jay- on 2010-05-18
**Love**
the new look
how fast it is to install from usb

**Hate**
that i have to use a silly scrip to get my usb devices keyboard & mouse to power up from resume

---

### Post by phrostbyte on 2010-05-18
Love
Almost everything about it. Generally an excellent release

Hate
The bootsplash

---

### Post by koolblue3 on 2010-05-18
Hi,

Love:
Default theme
Ease of use(Which has been every release I have tried)
Comes "social from the start"

Hate:
Occasional instability

---

### Post by Khakilang on 2010-05-18
Love everything.
Hate, it does not support my Lexmark 3100 All in one printer. Especially the scanner.

---

### Post by murderslastcrow on 2010-05-18
I love everything about it. The only thing not to love is the lack of third-party support for some niche software that won't run in Wine (which is always the biggest problem for newbies). Of course, this is nothing we can expect Canonical or any OSS developer to improve on, since running Windows programs isn't the focus of our efforts.

So really, unless you're addicted or forced to work with something you just can't run, Lucid works brilliantly, and with improved speed, on all the computers I've upgraded with. And that's very considerable, realizing that the previous release already seemed so amazingly fast and stable as it was.

All I hear of it is overwhelmingly positive, except from the Windows junkies.

---

### Post by djyoung4 on 2010-05-18
love the boot time.  
hate how it is starting to look OS Xish

---

### Post by fjf on 2010-05-18
> **Koh Kook Loon said:**
> Love everything.
Hate, it does not support my Lexmark 3100 All in one printer. Especially the scanner.

I just got a new printer, a HP6500, connected it to my router with an ethernet cable, and installed the drivers HP-LIP; they located the printer in the network and make it work perfectly.  Even the scanner works fine with Xsane and the Gimp.  Awesome!.  Linux users should get an HP printer as default.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-05-18
Nothing to hate considering the price.:P

---

### Post by noob555 on 2010-05-18
**Love:** Mostly everything.  Lucid is a huge improvement (bug-wise especially) over Karmic.  Not really surprising, I suppose, considering it's an LTS release.

That said, there is this one problem.  And do to its very basic and necessary function, I am constantly reminded of it all day long...

**Hate: The Indicator Applet.**

It's not really broken *per se*.  It just doesn't do its job.  Check it:

(1) The new mail and chat indicators use the same icon, which is a problem because...

(2) the mail icon doesn't work with Thunderbird (1/2 functionality gone), and...

(3) the indicator for a new chat is very subtle (the logo becomes a slightly darker shade of gray) and so I miss a lot of new chat messages until after 10 minutes go by (other 1/2 functionality gone).

I'd like to just get rid of the thing, except that...

(4) it's tied to the volume applet (apparently these two items are linked by destiny, if not by logic) and I definitely need a volume applet. (So I'm stuck with this obnoxious mail icon that is worthless.)

(5) All of this could be solved if I could just (a) drop the applet, (b) replace the volume applet with something that just let me adjust the volume (seems obvious enough, but apparently now), (c) get a different mail applet that actually works with Thunderbird (Again, this is a very popular program), and (d) got a specific indicator for Empathy that is a little more noticeable.  Only some of this seems to be possible and none of it is easy.

(6) And finally, why is it that I change my status according to the Me menu, but the only way I can bring up my chat contacts is via the indicator applet?  Those two things (integral to the operation of any chat client) seem much more closely related than my email and my chat (which are separate application altogether).

Just saying.  It's kind of annoying.

---

### Post by RiceMonster on 2010-05-18
**like**: Boot speed and the new theme (even though I changed it. I get bored easily :)).

> **noob555 said:**
> **Hate: The Indicator Applet.**

It's not really broken *per se*.  It just doesn't do its job.  Check it:

(1) The new mail and chat indicators use the same icon, which is a problem because...

(2) the mail icon doesn't work with Thunderbird (1/2 functionality gone), and...

(3) the indicator for a new chat is very subtle (the logo becomes a slightly darker shade of gray) and so I miss a lot of new chat messages until after 10 minutes go by (other 1/2 functionality gone).

I'd like to just get rid of the thing, except that...

(4) it's tied to the volume applet (apparently these two items are linked by destiny, if not by logic) and I definitely need a volume applet. (So I'm stuck with this obnoxious mail icon that is worthless.)

(5) All of this could be solved if I could just (a) drop the applet, (b) replace the volume applet with something that just let me adjust the volume (seems obvious enough, but apparently now), (c) get a different mail applet that actually works with Thunderbird (Again, this is a very popular program), and (d) got a specific indicator for Empathy that is a little more noticeable.  Only some of this seems to be possible and none of it is easy.

(6) And finally, why is it that I change my status according to the Me menu, but the only way I can bring up my chat contacts is via the indicator applet?  Those two things (integral to the operation of any chat client) seem much more closely related than my email and my chat (which are separate application altogether).

Just saying.  It's kind of annoying.

Strongly agreed. I'd also like to add a few others: 
- If you're signed out of IM, it's not possible to sign in from the Me menu. 
- The space between icons in the systray is much smaller than the idicator applet, so it looks off. Increasing the padding in gconf-editor does nothing for some reason as well. Not a huge deal, but a little annoying.
- To open an app that has an indicator, now I have to click on the icon, then go to "show" rather than just clicking once, or right clicking for a menu. Again, not a huge deal, but kind of annoying
- If I want to be able to change or see my IM status from the panel, I have to have the me menu. Not to mention the functionality the me menu provides can be obtained in a standard systray just by right clicking on the tray icon, which makes the me menu pointless to me.




Lastly, apt isn't my favorite package manager, and I'd rather su to root to do admin tasks than use sudo. That's not specific to this release, though. I pretty much decided to give Ubuntu a try again until Fedora 13 comes out next week. Overall, good release.

---

