---
title: "Latest Ati Driver Installation"
date: 2005-08-12
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by daejavu on 2005-08-12
first im sorry that im sending this request there ... reason !! cause there are more ppl and i could really use a fast reply ...

i downloaded the latest ati drivers for my Radeon9200SE from [http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/ati-driver-installer-8.14.13.run](http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/ati-driver-installer-8.14.13.run)

ive been through alot of tutorials from alot of sites but am unable to get it workin .
has anyone used that driver so far and is successful in it ?
if so ... then plzzz let me know how u did it ... 
i just installed ubuntu again after FC4(things werent that good in it) and have not updated anything .. i think gcc is already installed .. rest i dont know !! 

please reply if you have installed the drivers and are running it ... 

thanks in advance !

---

### Post by sapo on 2005-08-12
I can install a ATi driver in 5 minutes.. i ll give you some tips ;)

Dont follow the stupid guides out there.. do it:

1 - Remove all the fglrx crap that you have using synaptic...

2 - now you have to install the kernel headers and some stuff... do it:

```
uname -a
```

Now you know whats your kernel version.. 

Now tyoe:

```
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-<your_kernel_version>
```

Remember to replace the <your_kernel_version> with that number that uname -a gave you :P

Now you have the dependencies...

3 - Install the ATi driver using the installer.

4 - run it and follow the steps, it will give you a xorg.conf file:
```
fglrxconfig
```

5 - Dont freaking use this file.. instead, open it with gedit and copy theSection "Device" till the EndSection... Open the /etc/X11/xorg.conf and paste the Device Section generated by the fglrxconfig, remember to update the Section "Screen" like this.
```

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Graphics Adapter"

```
6 - Add this to the Section "Module"
```

	Load	"dri"
	Load	"glx"

```

And add this to the end of the xorg.conf:

```

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

```


This should do the trick.. dont expect nothing easy coming from the ATI installer...

---

### Post by Curlydave on 2005-08-12
1: Clear out the old drivers using synaptec. 
2: Run the installer.
3:Open xorg.cong, find the "driver" section, change "ati" to fglrx"
4: restart X


I read all of the tutorials and they didn't work. Those 4 steps above worked for me.

---

### Post by daejavu on 2005-08-12
thanks for the quick replies guyz ...

what i did was downloaded the .run file .. 
ran it from terminal 
it asked me alot of questions which i answered as default.
restarted the x .

guess i should have changed the "ati"   to  "fglrx".


1 more thing ... how do i shutdown the x from the terminal ... cause x start default... ?

---

### Post by Curlydave on 2005-08-12
[QUOTE=daejavu]thanks for the quick replies guyz ...

what i did was downloaded the .run file .. 
ran it from terminal 
it asked me alot of questions which i answered as default.
restarted the x .

guess i should have changed the "ati"   to  "fglrx".


1 more thing ... how do i shutdown the x from the terminal ... cause x start default... ?[/QUOTE]

Hit ctrl+alt+backspace to restart X.

---

### Post by daejavu on 2005-08-12
that i know .. i mean completely shutting down the Xserver and getting to terminal.

---

### Post by ape on 2005-08-12
You need to stop your display manager.  From an xterm issue /etc/init.d/gdm stop (or kdm or xdm, whatever your display manager is).  This will drop you down to the command line.

---

