---
title: "make money fast"
date: 2007-01-14
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by aerosol man on 2007-01-14
THIS REALLY WORKS!!!!!! 
........
Previously I was browsing through a newsgroup, as you are now, and came across an article similar to : : this that said you could make thousands within weeks with only an initial investment of £5.00! So I : : thought, this must be a scam but like most of us, I was curious, sps. (There are millions) No catch, that's it. : : So after thinking it over, and talking to others, I thought about trying it. thinking; what have I got to : : lose except 5 stamps and £5.00,right? : : Then I invested the measly £5.00. Well GUESSWHAT!!...within 7 days, I started getting money in the : : post I was shocked! I thought it would soon dry up, but the money just kept coming in. : : In my first week, I made about £25.00. By the end of the second week I had made a total of : : over£1,000.00! In the third week I had over£10,000.00 and it's still growing. : : This is now my fourth week and I have made justover£42,000.00 and it's still coming in rapidly. It's : : certainly worth £5.00,and 5 stamps; I have spent more than that on the lottery!! : : Let me tell you how this works and most importantly, why it works....Also, make sure you print a copy : : of this article NOW, so you can get the information off it as you need it. : : I promise you that if you follow the directions exactly, you will start making more money than you : : thought possible by doing something very simple - but then all the best schemes are simple. : : Suggestion: : : Read this entire message carefully! (print it out or download it.) : : Follow the simple directions and watch the money come in! It's easy. It's legal. and your investment is : : only £5.00 (Plus postage) : : IMPORTANT: : : This is not a rip-off; it is not indecent; it is not illegal; and it is low or no risk - it really works!!!! If all : : of the following instructions are adhered to, you will receive extraordinary dividends. : : PLEASE NOTE: : : Please follow these directions EXACTLY, and £50,000 or more can be yours in 20 to 60 days. : : This program remains successful because of the honesty and integrity of the participants. Please : : continue its success by carefully adhering to the instructions. : : Technically, you will now become part of the Mail Order business. .In this business your product is not : : solid and tangible, it's a service. You are in the business of developing Mailing Lists. : : Many large corporations are happy to pay big money for quality lists. However, the money made from : : the mailing lists is secondary to the income which is made from people like you and me asking to be : : included in that list. : : Here are the 4 easy steps to success: : : STEP 1: : : Get 5 separate pieces of paper and write or type the following on each piece of paper ; PLEASE PUT : : ME ON YOUR MAILING LIST and add your name and address. : : Now get £5 (uk coins) and place : : ONE inside EACH of the 5 pieces of paper so the bill or coin cannot be seen through the envelope (to : : prevent theft). : : Next, place one paper in each of the 5 envelopes and seal. You should now have 5 sealed envelopes, : : each with a piece of paper stating the phrase ; PLEASE PUT ME ON YOUR MAILING LIST; , your : : name and address, and a £1.00coin. What you are doing is creating a service. THIS IS : : ABSOLUTELY LEGAL! You are requesting a legitimate service and you are paying for it! If you : : have any doubts, refer to Title 18 Sec. 1302& 1341 of the Postal lottery laws. Keep a copy of these : : steps for yourself and, when ever you need money, you can use it again, and again. : : : : Like most of us I was a little sceptical and a little worried about the legal aspects of it all. So I checked : : it out with the Post Office and they confirmed that it is indeed legal! Mail the 5 envelopes to the : : following addresses: : : : : 
1) Ms R Lee, 3 Wilton Gardens, SOTON, HANTS, England : : 

2) Mr D A Kirby, 2 West Park Farm Cottages, West Park Road,Newchapel, Surrey RH7 6HT : :

3) Miss B Miller, 22 Brook Farm Road, Saxmundham, Suffolk, IP17 1XT : :

4) Miss L Rose, 76 Pooltown Road, Ellesmere Port, South Wirral, CH65 7BU : :

5) Mrs E.Wynne, 7 Pear Tree Close, Castle Donington, Derby. England. De74 2JJ : :


Now take the #1 name off the list that you see above, move the other names up (5 becomes 4,4 : : becomes 3,etc...) and add YOUR Name as number 5on the list. STEP 3: Change anything you need to, : : but try to keep this article as close to the original as possible. Now, post your amended article to at least : : 200 newsgroups. (I think there are close to 2.4million groups) All you need is 200,but remember, the : : more you post, the more money you make! : : : : PLEASE REMEMBER that this program remains successful because of the honesty and integrity of : : the participants and by their carefully adhering to the directions. Look at it this way. If you have : : integrity, the programme will continue and the money that so many others have received will come : : your way. : : NOTE: : : You may want to retain every name and address sent to you, either on a computer or hard copy and : : keep the notes people send you. This VERIFIES that you are truly providing a service. (Also, it might : : be a good idea to wrap the £1 in dark paper to reduce the risk of mail theft or if it is a coin, wrap it in : : tissue paper so that it does not slide around in the envelope.) : : So, as each post is downloaded and the directions carefully followed, six members will be reimbursed : : for their participation as a List Developer with one dollar, pound or euro each. : : Your name will move up the list geometrically so that when your name reaches the #1 position you will : : be receiving thousands in CASH!!! : : What an opportunity for only £5.00 (£1.00 for each of the first five people listed above) : : Send it now, add your own name to the list and you're in business! : : ---DIRECTIONS ----- FOR HOW TO POST TO NEWSGROUPS------------ : : Step 1) : : You do not need to re-type this entire letter to do your own posting. : : Simply put your cursor at the beginning of this letter and drag your cursor to the bottom of this : : document, and select 'copy' from the edit menu. This will copy the entire letter into the computer's : : memory. : : Step 2) : : Open a blank 'notepad' file and place your cursor at the top of the blank page. From the 'edit' menu : : select 'paste'. This will paste a copy of the letter into notepad so that you can add your name to the list. : : Step 3) Save your new notepad file as a .txt file. If you want to do your postings in different settings, : : you'll always have this file to go back to. : : Step 4) : : Use Netscape or Internet explorer and try searching for various newsgroups (on-line forums, message : : boards, chat sites, discussions.) : : Step 5) : : Visit these message boards and post this article as a new message by highlighting the text of this letter : : and selecting paste from the edit menu. Fill in the Subject, this will be the header that everyone sees as : : they scroll through the list of postings in a particular group, click the post message button. You're done : : with your first one! : : Congratulations...THAT'S IT! : : All you have to do is jump to different newsgroups and post away; after you get the hang of it, it will : : take about 30 seconds for each newsgroup! : : **REMEMBER, THE MORE NEWSGROUPS YOU POST IN, THE MOREMONEYYOU WILL : : MAKE!! BUT YOU HAVE TO POST A MINIMUM OF 200** : : That's it! You will begin receiving money from around the world within days! You may eventually : : want to rent a P.O. Box due to the large amount of mail you will receive. If you wish to stay : : anonymous, you can invent a name to use, as long as the postman will deliver it. : : **JUST MAKE SURE ALL THE ADDRESSES ARE CORRECT.** : : Now the WHY part: : : Out of 200 postings, say I receive only 5 replies (a very low example). So then I made £5.00 with my : : name at #5 on the letter. : : Now, if each of the 5 people who sent me £1.00 make the MINIMUM 200 postings, each with my : : name at #5 and only 5 persons respond to each of the original 5,that is another £25.00 for me; if now : : those 25 each make 200 MINIMUM postings; with my name at #4 and only 5 replies each, I will : : receive an additional £125.00! : : Now, if those 125 people turn around and post the MINIMUM 200with my name at #3 and only : : receive 5 replies each, I will make an additional£625.00! : : OK, now here is the fun part; if each of those 625 persons post a MINIMUM 200 letters with my name : : at #2 and they each only receive 5 replies, that has just made me £3,125.00!!! : : Those 3,125 persons will all deliver this message to 200 newsgroups with my name at #1 and if still : : ONLY 5 persons per 200 news groups react I will receive £15,625! : : With an original investment of only £5.00! AMAZING! When your name is no longer on the list, you : : just take the latest posting in the newsgroups and send out another $5.00 to names on the list, putting : : your name at number 5 again. And start posting again. : : : : The thing to remember is: do you realize that thousands of people all over the world are joining the : : internet and reading these articles everyday? JUST LIKE YOU are now!! : : So, can you afford £5.00 to see if it really works?? I think so... : : People have said, what if the plan is played out and no one sends you the money? So what! What are : : the chances of that happening when there are tons of new honest users and new honest people who are : : joining the internet and newsgroups everyday and are willing to give it a try? : : : : Estimates are at 20,000 to 50,000 new users, every day, with thousands of those joining the actual : : internet. bulletin board like this one and decided to try it. It worked for me - it can for you! 
........

---

