---
title: "Conflicting linux documentation can go against linux philosophies"
date: 2014-08-18
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by axiomanarcho on 2014-08-18
I have been reading into my distribution documentations recently while cloning a hdd to ssd and what I notice a lot about the ubuntu community in general is some of them don't adhere to the linux philosophy of " Do one thing and do it well." Alot of people send others on tangents. 

While looking up how to clone a drive on askbuntu I got a lot of conflicting destructive commands for certain types of hardware and also in the documentation of ubuntu, when all that was actually needed was a simple dd command in terminal to clone my hd to my ssd. a lot of conclusive gibberish that is spewed onto these help websites goes against the ideas of certain scientific principles aswell, it is interesting to see in communitys how these things are taken so lightly.

My question to the community is should answer be more monitored to a proof of concept system, I know everyone has there own ideas But we as a community ARE the driving force behind linux and it's development.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2014-08-18
which wiki did you edit or reword?

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2014-08-18
"Do one thing and do it well" was, I suspect, spawned in the very early days of Unix in order to make a virtue out of the dearth of software available at that time, and the very limited capability of the hardware it ran on. It's a concept highlighted by many of the creators in Unix, and I was suitably enthusiastic about it when I read their books. 

What it really was saying, though, is, for example, don't write a new sort program because Unix provides a perfectly good one.

But, if it isn't good enough -- not fast enough, say, for your job -- by all means write your own sort routine.

Developers develop, though, hardware changes and improves, software is forked, on and on.   

The web *is* full of outdated and often incorrect information. Sites that publish content generated by users, like this one, AskUbuntu, etc., have to depend on other users to point out that something is wrong or inappropriate.  If they had to pay people to perform that kind of editorial function, most of them would vanish. Bloggers and professional sites masquerading as bloggers seldom correct or delete previously published material.

---

### Post by axiomanarcho on 2014-08-18
That is pretty rude Elfy...

---

### Post by Elfy on 2014-08-18
not really - you've come here with comments on the wiki etc - I know I've edited pages, I just wondered which you'd done any editing on to deal with "a lot of conclusive gibberish that is spewed onto these help websites"

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-08-18
Everything in linux is a suggestion.  If it works, then great.  If it doesn't, then not so great.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-08-18
> **axiomanarcho said:**
> 
My question to the community is should answer be more monitored to a proof of concept system, I know everyone has there own ideas But we as a community ARE the driving force behind linux and it's development.

Who would you suggest moderate the more than 140 threads and 900 posts created each day on this Forum? There are only 30 moderation team members in many different time zones, all of who have real lives along with spending some of their free time volunteering to keep the Forums a great place.

This suggestion also goes against the tenet, that we are free to use Linux in any way we want to do anything we want.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2014-08-18
> **axiomanarcho said:**
> My question to the community is should answer be more monitored to a proof of concept system, I know everyone has there own ideas But we as a community ARE the driving force behind linux and it's development.

Generally, the moderators is the three big forums (Ubuntuforums, AskUbuntu, Discourse) look for Code of Conduct violations, abusive behavior, or malicious advice. Your complaint that some advice you received was destructive might fall within 'malicious advice.' If so, you should flag it.

I'm not sure what how a 'more monitored' forum would look different.
What additional guidelines are you proposing, and for which forums?

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2014-08-19
In this forum, you can hit the report button if you find something objectionable. I don't know if there's a bean or rep barrier for that.

In Ask Ubuntu, I recall needing a certain minimum rep before you can comment or downvote.

Discourse doesn't seem to have taken off (as yet).

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-08-19
> [COLOR=#000000]But we as a community ARE the driving force behind linux and it's development.[/COLOR]

No, we are not. Developers of Linux and Linux based software projects are the driving force.

 I am a grateful user. I am not driving anything. I am certainly not going to become a "back-seat driver." I do not even have "purchasing power." I am not a customer. Ubuntu is not Linux. It would be wrong for Ubuntu users to force their views on the greater Linux community.

"If you do not like it, get involved and change it." I believe that to be one of the fundamental philosophies of Free and Open Source Software development. It may not be officially expressed exactly like that. 

There are several areas in Ubuntu development where those of us who cannot write code can become part of the Ubuntu development community. One of those areas is writing Documentation (including Ubuntu Wiki articles).

[http://community.ubuntu.com/](http://community.ubuntu.com/)

There is something that you have failed to notice about Linux. The same task can be done in several different ways. It is freedom.

---

### Post by WinEunuchs2Unix on 2014-08-24
There is a lot of great information in forums and web sites.  The best caveat is be careful of older information that no longer applies to your more current version.  It's time consuming to filter through this for me, but it's invaluable to people running older versions of Ubuntu or the Kernel.

As far as some people posting incorrect or misleading information I'm sure it's quite innocent and they are merely posting what they think is correct.  In this case I write it off to "you get what you pay for and Ubuntu forums are free".

Really there are better things in the world to gripe about isn't there?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2014-08-25
I agree there is too much bad information and too many people giving help with inapplicable or outdated advice. The only thing you can realistically do is try and increase the number of people who know the correct information, so they will pass it on.

It doesn't help though that good advice today can break your system in October. Ubuntu moves very quickly.

---

