---
title: "Terrible legal article completely misunderstands free software"
date: 2008-06-03
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by BrendanM on 2008-06-03
[http://www.law.com/jsp/legaltechnology/pubArticleLT.jsp?id=1202421869652&rss=newswire](http://www.law.com/jsp/legaltechnology/pubArticleLT.jsp?id=1202421869652&rss=newswire)

This article is awful.

> "Open source software had its origins in the free software movement. By now, most open source users understand that free refers to freedom, not to price. The new lesson is that the freedom belongs to the software, not to users. You are not free to do whatever you want with the open source software and may find yourself in a legal fight if what you do restricts the freedom of the software.

Many of the things that for-profit companies strive for end up limiting some software's freedom. Any activity that leverages software for business advantage is likely to restrict the software's freedom, and the growing use of open source software by for-profit companies has been a growing irritant for free software advocates. "

No, you're wrong. The freedom doesn't "belong to the software", the freedom belongs to the users of the software. This article grossly misstates the limitations and the intentions of the GPL.

---

### Post by Darkhack on 2008-06-03
I don't know what you mean.  The article seemed pretty accurate.  It's warning companies of the restrictions behind GPLed software.  It's illegal to use GPL code in a proprietary product.  That's what the article is warning against.

Open source isn't public domain.  It's a form of copyright, albeit, a very liberal form of copyright with few restrictions, but still protected.

I think the article was spot-on.  I don't think they misunderstood free software at all.

---

### Post by madjr on 2008-06-03
i hate those misunderstandings

---

### Post by Paqman on 2008-06-03
> **Darkhack said:**
> 
I think the article was spot-on.  I don't think they misunderstood free software at all.

I agree. In fact I think they're showing a good grasp of some of the subtleties of OSS.

---

### Post by shadylookin on 2008-06-03
I'm not a lawyer, but that article seems right on everything. 

If you're a for profit company(or anything else for that matter) you can't take GPL code tweak it a bit and then repackage it as your own proprietary code. Thats the very essence of the GPL, if you use someone else's hard work as a base to build a program you have to also allow others to use your software as a base for others to work with.

---

### Post by PrimoTurbo on 2008-06-03
The article is correct. Your interpretation is incorrect, GPL does limit users/companies. But there is a good reason for it. For example I cannot take the source code of gnome, re-release it under a different name and make it propriety. I always have to release the source code. Some companies have gotten into trouble because they ignored or misinterpreted the license.

---

### Post by az on 2008-06-03
Quote: "it pounds home the need to understand the incompatibilities between open source software and many business models."

So, if you want to make money from software by taking away someone else's freedom to interface with that software, the GPLv3 will not let you do that.

---

### Post by BrendanM on 2008-06-03
The article is an example of the "fear uncertainty doubt" model of discouraging business from using free software, as though it will suddenly make it illegal to make money.

It includes baseless speculation like, "The next legal fight could be an attempt to force release of proprietary server code due to some part of the output of the server constituting a "work" generated by open source components on the server," geared toward trying to freak out businesses.

The only thing the GPL prevents you from doing as a commercial company is wrapping up somebody else's work in your proprietary package and preventing other people from distributing it. Plus, this article doesn't even touch on the more permissive free software licenses like the BSD, Apache, or MIT licenses.

It may be technically correct, but in its tone and philosophy, it's way off base.

---

### Post by Luke has no name on 2008-06-03
BrendanM:

you are correct in that it unfairly depicts OSS as bad for business, when it can be used for huge cost savings, PR, and community support. It is when you edit and add proprietary code that you might get tripped up. Even then though, you only get in hot water if you DISTRIBUTE binaries without releasing modified source code.

However, its one-sided information is accurate.

This is why the BSD license is the way to go if you want for-profit developers to look at your code. BSD is TRUE free software.

---

### Post by az on 2008-06-04
> **Luke has no name said:**
> BrendanM:

you are correct in that it unfairly depicts OSS as bad for business, when it can be used for huge cost savings, PR, and community support. It is when you edit and add proprietary code that you might get tripped up. Even then though, you only get in hot water if you DISTRIBUTE binaries without releasing modified source code.

However, its one-sided information is accurate.

Quote from the article:
*Many of the things that for-profit companies strive for end up limiting some software's freedom. Any activity that leverages software for business advantage is likely to restrict the software's freedom, and the growing use of open source software by for-profit companies has been a growing irritant for free software advocates.*

I don't think it's one-sided as much as narrow-minded.  It assumes that all commercial activity involving software must take away the end-user's freedom.  While in the conventional buy-software-as-a-commodity model, this is true, you need to find alternative business models to use free/libre software.  For example, Google is built upon free software and it makes billions.  Google can happily use GPL v3 code.


> **Luke has no name said:**
> 
This is why the BSD license is the way to go if you want for-profit developers to look at your code. BSD is TRUE free software.

The GPL versus BSD debate is old and tired.  It really comes down to who you consider the user.

If you consider the software developer the "user" then BSD gives the "user" more freedom.  If you consider the end-user (the non-programmer) the "user" then, a BSD license does not protect the "user" as well as the GPL.

I think it's becoming more and more clear that a free software project is only as good as it's community.  You don't choose the software based on the code, but on the potential it has - and that's based on its community.  More developers chose to use the GPL because it has much greater potential to keep all members of the community on the same level, and that translates into a healthier community.

A BSD-licenced project often needs to provide other forms of insurance to its community to keep their confidence.

---

