---
title: "8.10 Wallpaper Updated!"
date: 2008-09-27
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Exsecrabilus on 2008-09-27
With the new ubuntu-wallpapers update, the Hardy Heron wallpaper has been removed, and here comes the new Intrepid background!

Not as beautiful and elegant as the 8.04 one, but still neat in the Ubuntu circles going round in, well, circles, signifying the Ibex's horns.

Here is the image!:

[img]http://i212.photobucket.com/albums/cc134/Exsecrabilus/warty-final-ubuntu.png[/img]

[Backlink](http://ubuntunext810.blogspot.com/2008/09/new-wallpaper.html).

---

### Post by Exsecrabilus on 2008-09-27
Damn slow Internets.

---

### Post by steeleyuk on 2008-09-27
> Damn slow Internets.

Great thread. I'm tempted to give you a thanks for producing such a wonderful topic. ;-)

Edit: /Sarcasm tag.

---

### Post by Exsecrabilus on 2008-09-27
> **steeleyuk said:**
> Great thread. I'm tempted to give you a thanks for producing such a wonderful topic. ;-)
Be free to.

Damn slow Internets. It doesn't let you know when you've created double topics. Too lazy to ask moderator to delete this duplicate and too lazy to care what others think of this.

---

### Post by Hells_Dark on 2008-09-27
Yerk!

---

### Post by rax_m on 2008-09-27
ug! Guess I won't be using that one!

BTW I really liked the Hardy wall paper.

---

### Post by binbash on 2008-09-27
Hardy's wallpaper is a lot better in my opinion

---

### Post by kef_kf on 2008-09-27
where is the ibex?

---

### Post by abdulwahed on 2008-09-27
we expect something better from ubuntu

---

### Post by Hells_Dark on 2008-09-27
Seriously, i don't know ANYONE that could find it beautiful..

---

### Post by TheSlipstream on 2008-09-27
Hey, it's not that bad. I think you guys desperately need something new to pour hateful comments at.

But still, it doesn't meet the standards of Hardy. But I'd still like a 1600X1200 version. It may see some use, with me.

---

### Post by Exsecrabilus on 2008-09-27
Ubuntu needs to include different resolution images of the same wallpaper, and detect the resolution, and adjust the image accordingly while Ubuntu loads the Live CD desktop and while it installs.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-09-27
Round circles != Ibex horns

---

### Post by _sAm_ on 2008-09-27
The old "bird wallpaper" is nice, but I must say I didnt like this new one at all(and I tried to).

I was going to say "*it dosnt matter since we all change it anyway*" but I _do_ think it matters. So many IT sites and blogs around the world is going to showoff screenshots from latest Ubuntu, as news or reviews - and it should look fantastic to get as much out of this free advertisement as possible. If it looked good more people new to Linux would take notice.

---

### Post by Swarms on 2008-09-27
I don't like it either, is this the final pick?

---

### Post by mike1234 on 2008-09-27
If Ubuntu plans to overhaul Mac, they better hire an Art department. This used baby diaper motif is disgusting.

M.

---

### Post by nick09 on 2008-09-27
What can I say? Yuck!

The hardy wallpaper beats the 8.10 wallpaper so far, even though its "obsolete".

---

### Post by Naiki Muliaina on 2008-09-27
Normally i like Ubuntu's wallpapers. Even if they are brown, they have a style to them. This one however, doesnt look so 'ubuntuy' (if thats a word) as previous wallpapers. It just looks a bit naff :(

---

### Post by spoons on 2008-09-27
Seems a poor effort imo. Something someone knocked up over the course of 10 minutes.

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-09-27
I understand it there has to be some brownish colors in the official wallpaper, but someone needs to tell the Ubuntu art team that it doesn't has to be all brown!

That wallpaper is horrible and I for one aren't going to use it.

---

### Post by TBOL3 on 2008-09-27
Yuk, even I, who has almost always loved ubuntu's wallpapers, hate it.  It really looks like poo.

---

### Post by god0fgod on 2008-09-27
lol Who uses default wallpapers anyway?

---

### Post by UbuWu on 2008-09-27
This one is sooooo much better:

[http://img218.imageshack.us/img218/5246/redibexcb7.jpg](http://img218.imageshack.us/img218/5246/redibexcb7.jpg)

[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-art/2008-September/008006.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-art/2008-September/008006.html)

---

### Post by spoons on 2008-09-27
Now THAT'S what I'd like to see. :D

---

### Post by the yawner on 2008-09-27
Uninspired and lazy.

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-09-27
The one UbuWu posted is 10 times better.

Might even use that one, it's great.

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2008-09-27
First one is horrible. I really hope they ditch it fast.

The one posted by UbuWu is really good.



.

---

### Post by UbuWu on 2008-09-27
Well the current one is probably temporary, looking at the changelog:

* Removing heron pics due to package size problems.

---

### Post by eragon100 on 2008-09-27
UGGHGH!!! Vomiting!

Creating something so ugly should be forbidden!

---

### Post by Hells_Dark on 2008-09-27
Really. This IS that bad. I even thought it was a joke.
I don't care because i will not use it, but it makes me sad for the default image.
I think it's temporary too. This is not serious.

---

### Post by logaros on 2008-09-27
Any particular reason why the file's called warty-final-ubuntu.png?  Sounds rather ancient to me ...

---

### Post by danbuter on 2008-09-27
I liked the Heron wallpaper. This, on the other hand, is just bad.

---

### Post by wersdaluv on 2008-09-27
Why is it called warty final? Warty's been out for ages. 

And yah. I tried to appreciate it but I didn't. I always tried to appreciate Ubuntu artwork. I loved the old wallpapers except for the one in Gutsy and the GNOME themes except the ubuntulooks. This seems to be another one that I would have a hard time liking.

---

### Post by picpak on 2008-09-27
> **UbuWu said:**
> This one is sooooo much better:

[http://img218.imageshack.us/img218/5246/redibexcb7.jpg](http://img218.imageshack.us/img218/5246/redibexcb7.jpg)

[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-art/2008-September/008006.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-art/2008-September/008006.html)

It might feel a little "spooky" at first, but yeah, that one's 100 times better.

It saddens me that all the great wallpaper designers in the world are being pushed aside for...for *this*.

---

### Post by myusername on 2008-09-27
UbuWu is much better than this crap

---

### Post by Paqman on 2008-09-27
Let's not get carried away, Intrepid is still in Alpha.

That's a really dull wallpaper though, especially after Hardy's excellent one. I'd be more than happy to see an ibex done in the same style as the current heron.

---

### Post by wladicus on 2008-09-27
If mass market appeal is intended to help Linux exposure worldwide then a wallpaper design such as this may not work well!  
Think about it.

---

### Post by niccholaspage on 2008-09-27
Holy.... Remind me when I install Intrepid on this laptop I need to download the Ubuntu 8.04 ISO and replace my background image.... This thing looks horrible!

---

### Post by cardinals_fan on 2008-09-27
Am I the only one that likes it...?

---

### Post by I-75 on 2008-09-27
Knoppix 5.3 has the best wallpaper, surely Ubuntu can come up with much better.

---

### Post by niccholaspage on 2008-09-27
> **I-75 said:**
> Knoppix 5.3 has the best wallpaper, surely Ubuntu can come up with much better.
Very cool Wallpaper.

---

### Post by nick09 on 2008-09-27
> **niccholaspage said:**
> Holy.... Remind me when I install Intrepid on this laptop I need to download the Ubuntu 8.04 ISO and replace my background image.... This thing looks horrible!

Or just grab the image file off the net or off of your current computer that runs 8.04.

Hardy background without the bird:
[http://img408.imageshack.us/img408/7840/heronsimpleyg0.png](http://img408.imageshack.us/img408/7840/heronsimpleyg0.png)

> Am I the only one that likes it...?

I guess you are one of the few who likes it.

---

### Post by miggols99 on 2008-09-27
Ew. This wallpaper is absolutely horrible! I hope this will not be the final one.

---

### Post by chris4585 on 2008-09-27
Dear god, I say.. that wallpaper looks nasty

---

### Post by kevin11951 on 2008-09-27
I like my version better!

---

### Post by niccholaspage on 2008-09-27
> **nick09 said:**
> Or just grab the image file off the net or off of your current computer that runs 8.04.

Hardy background without the bird:
[http://img408.imageshack.us/img408/7840/heronsimpleyg0.png](http://img408.imageshack.us/img408/7840/heronsimpleyg0.png)



I guess you are one of the few who likes it.
But it doesn't have the bird. The Bird is awesome.

---

### Post by Half-Left on 2008-09-27
I dont know why they struggle to do art, perhaps thats why Mark will employ professional designers, KDE4, fedora, SUSE do great art, I dont know why they just dont ask them.

---

### Post by Phreaker on 2008-09-27
So far I like 8.04's wallpaper the best.
This is too...plain?

---

### Post by mihai.ile on 2008-09-27
omg this is really bad...

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2008-09-27
I like [this version]("http://img258.imageshack.us/img258/3098/ibex1920x1440nc9.jpg") of the Ibex Wallpaper on the mailing list the best. Using it right now. :D

See original message [here]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-art/2008-September/008020.html").

---

### Post by Frak on 2008-09-27
Wow... That's... not what I expected...

And that wasn't a compliment.

---

### Post by egwest on 2008-09-27
If that goes on, it will be changed out real, real quick!

I created this one for myself, was just fooling around with the graphics paint program when I did it.

---

### Post by Mazza558 on 2008-09-27
I don't understand how they can choose this over the infinitely better wallpapers made by the community. And the same goes for the theme (no community theme will be used)

---

### Post by Frak on 2008-09-27
> **Mazza558 said:**
> I don't understand how they can choose this over the infinitely better wallpapers made by the community. And the same goes for the theme (no community theme will be used)
This is just one more area where I question if Ubuntu is really "for the community".

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-09-27
> **cardinals_fan said:**
> Am I the only one that likes it...?

yes!

---

### Post by Mazza558 on 2008-09-27
> **Frak said:**
> This is just one more area where I question if Ubuntu is really "for the community".

This might be the point where Canonical becomes Novell, and we have to branch off. 

OpenUbuntu?

---

### Post by Frak on 2008-09-27
> **Mazza558 said:**
> This might be the point where Canonical becomes Novell, and we have to branch off. 

OpenUbuntu?
Haha, I think they have one like that, I just forgot the name. It's 100% OSS if I believe.

---

### Post by Kernel Sanders on 2008-09-27
What the hell is that supposed to be? Epic fail. Hardy's wallpaper is much better.

---

### Post by Changturkey on 2008-09-27
Where is the Ibex?

---

### Post by Ozor Mox on 2008-09-27
> **smartboyathome said:**
> I like [this version]("http://img258.imageshack.us/img258/3098/ibex1920x1440nc9.jpg") of the Ibex Wallpaper on the mailing list the best. Using it right now. :D

See original message [here]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-art/2008-September/008020.html").

This one is great!

However, coming from someone who normally likes the Ubuntu wallpapers, especially the Hardy one, the one in the OP is really quite poor!

---

### Post by sertse on 2008-09-27
I thought with hardy, we'll be going in a new direction. I'm not talking about "prettiness", but branding. 

In short "Where's my ibex?"

---

### Post by mike1234 on 2008-09-27
> **smartboyathome said:**
> I like [this version]("http://img258.imageshack.us/img258/3098/ibex1920x1440nc9.jpg") of the Ibex Wallpaper on the mailing list the best. Using it right now. :D

See original message [here]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-art/2008-September/008020.html").

+1 This is actually quite good.

M.

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2008-09-27
I'm hoping that isn't actually the ibex wallpaper. It is called warty after all. I really like that second wallpaper posted with the ibex on the dark wood.

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2008-09-27
> **ad_267 said:**
> I'm hoping that isn't actually the ibex wallpaper. It is called warty after all. I really like that second wallpaper posted with the ibex on the dark wood.

All the wallpapers for Ubuntu are called "warty".

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2008-09-27
> **smartboyathome said:**
> All the wallpapers for Ubuntu are called "warty".

Oh. Damn.

---

### Post by johnb820 on 2008-09-27
I like it. I am in the minority it seems. It isn't exactly "pretty" but it seems practical and interesting enough. It gives that, "I just got blinded by camera flash" (Oh yea some cameras don't have this anymore) feel to it. For the record, I thought that Heron in 8.04 was stupid looking. It invaded my desktop from seemingly no where with its weird bright orange splashes as if it was coming out of an orange acid bath.

---

### Post by Exsecrabilus on 2008-09-28
For all those saying this image sucks, well, it does, I agree. If Ubuntu's not going to do something it promised to do (it promised theme redesign for 8.10), it usually announces that it won't be able to. I think Ubuntu's hiding something, and the art team is working behind the curtains; with the final release, with no warning, the new theme will arrive and everyone will be like, wow! This wallpaper will be just to ruin the public's view on Ubuntu's artistic capabilities. Besides, Mr.Shuttleworth just hired a couple of losers that can theme.

> **mike1234 said:**
> If Ubuntu plans to overhaul Mac, they better hire an Art department. This used baby diaper motif is disgusting.

M.
It did. It hired like designers and it was posted everywhere.

> **logaros said:**
> Any particular reason why the file's called warty-final-ubuntu.png?  Sounds rather ancient to me ...
For users who had been using Ubuntu since 4.10 and have been updating solely using Update Manager, changing the name of the image would create broken links and after updating, users would have to *manually* set the *default* background. Therefore, the image changes while the name stays.

We need to all send emails to the creator of the Hardy wallpaper and beg him/her to make one for Intrepid; if he/she refuses, pay her.

---

### Post by sefs on 2008-09-28
The wallpaper from the Dell Mini9 is nice.

---

### Post by andras artois on 2008-09-28
That looks pants.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2008-09-28
that wallpaper works for me!

screenshot related :)

---

### Post by gogadan on 2008-09-28
im not a huge fan of the new wallpaper and i wont be using it.but each to there own i suppose :).

---

### Post by hanzomon4 on 2008-09-28
Ubuntu just sucks at looking cool... I give up on hoping for better

---

### Post by uberdonkey5 on 2008-09-28
why bother? they should just stick to a plain (grey or almost black?) background. How many people actually stick with the ubuntu wallpaper? It takes a few seconds to change it. Only thing I hate is that when ubuntu loads I still have to look at the brown screen before my wallpaper loads. Why isn't the wallpaper the REAL back of the screen, rather than seeming like its just loaded on top of the brown?

---

### Post by TBOL3 on 2008-09-28
You know, I just realized something.  The dot's are spiraling into the center, and getting smaller, giving the illusion that their getting further away.  Perhaps this is the idea of making a 'new' look.  (OS x.5 desktop anyone?)

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2008-09-28
> **uberdonkey5 said:**
> why bother? they should just stick to a plain (grey or almost black?) background. How many people actually stick with the ubuntu wallpaper? It takes a few seconds to change it. Only thing I hate is that when ubuntu loads I still have to look at the brown screen before my wallpaper loads. Why isn't the wallpaper the REAL back of the screen, rather than seeming like its just loaded on top of the brown?

system -> administration -> "local" tab -> "background color" button

that fix you up?

---

### Post by Abras on 2008-09-28
Certainly, it's easy to change the background, but I still think it's fairly important to have a nice looking default... Given the general negative response here I can't see how they could possibly this for the final release. If they do I guarantee just about every review will have that as a little nag point :)

---

### Post by aaaantoine on 2008-09-29
My wife likes it.

Compared to 8.04's wallpaper, I think it's a step back.  But I use my own wallpaper anyway.

---

### Post by notwen on 2008-09-30
> **smartboyathome said:**
> I like [this version]("http://img258.imageshack.us/img258/3098/ibex1920x1440nc9.jpg") of the Ibex Wallpaper on the mailing list the best. Using it right now. :D

See original message [here]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-art/2008-September/008020.html").

Anyone able to gimp this and make the BG black and maybe use gray scale colors for the graphic?  Perhaps for a 1440x900 reso?  Hmmmm. =]  *wishes he had more time to play w/ gimp*

---

### Post by TwiceOver on 2008-09-30
> **hanzomon4 said:**
> Ubuntu just sucks at looking cool... I give up on hoping for better

I would have to agree.  There's so much work to do out of the box to make it look decent.  I wish they would put out a "Pro" edition that had a more polished look.

---

