---
title: "A.S. in Linux/Unix Admin"
date: 2011-05-10
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by EliteLamer on 2011-05-10
I already have my A.A. and was looking at getting an A.S. in Linux/Unix but am having second thoughts now. A few other people say that I wont be able to get a job with an A.A. and A.S. in Linux/unix. That I should focus on Microsoft servers instead of linux.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2011-05-10
ummm, get a degree in IT or IS/CS. don;t get a degree for a platform/vendor, but for a field.

---

### Post by EliteLamer on 2011-05-10
> **doas777 said:**
> ummm, get a degree in IT or IS/CS. don;t get a degree for a platform/vendor, but for a field.

A.S. is a degree in IT



AS/AAS • Unix/Linux System Administration
AS.NA.OPT3/AAS.NA.OPT3
    The purpose of this program is to prepare students for employment as a Unix or Linux system administrator or to provide
supplemental training for persons previously or currently employed in these occupations. The content prepares individuals
to install information technology equipment, troubleshoot information technology equipment, and support information tech-
nology users.
Program Required Courses
CEN        2939    Network Administrator Capstone ...................................................................................... 3 cr.
CET        1172C   Computer Upgrade and Repair .......................................................................................... 3 cr.
CGS        1000    Introduction to Computers and Technology...................................................................... 3 cr.
CGS        1555    Introduction to the Internet................................................................................................. 3 cr.
CGS        1761    Computer Operating Systems............................................................................................. 3 cr.
CGS        2301    Management Information Systems..................................................................................... 3 cr.
CNT        1401    Introduction to Network Security....................................................................................... 3 cr.
COP        2344    Shell Scripting ...................................................................................................................... 3 cr.
COP        1000    Programming Logic............................................................................................................. 3 cr.
CTS        2311    Unix/Linux Security ........................................................................................................... 3 cr.
CTS        2333    Unix/Linux Networking..................................................................................................... 3 cr.
CTS        1106    Introduction to Unix ............................................................................................................ 3 cr.
CTS        1305    Introduction to Networking................................................................................................ 3 cr.
CTS        2301    Unix/Linux Administration I ............................................................................................. 3 cr.
CTS        2322    Unix/Linux Administration II ............................................................................................ 3 cr.
Select 3 credit hours of electives from the following list:
CET        1610    Cisco Router Technology .................................................................................................... 3 cr.
CET        2615    Cisco Advanced Router Technology .................................................................................. 3 cr.
HILLSBOROUGH COMMUNITY COLLEGE CATALOG 2010-2011                                                                                                          [www.hccfl.edu](www.hccfl.edu) 103
CGS    1936   Perl and CGI ........................................................................................................................ 3 cr.
CGS    2541   Database Design .................................................................................................................. 3 cr.
CGS    2825   Web Site Management......................................................................................................... 3 cr.
CNT    2510   Wireless Networking........................................................................................................... 3 cr.
COP    1220   Programming in “C” ........................................................................................................... 3 cr.
CTS    1327   Microsoft Window Professional ......................................................................................... 3 cr.
CTS    1328   M/S Windows Server.......................................................................................................... 3 cr.

---

### Post by EliteLamer on 2011-05-10
It is from a state college and not ITT

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-05-10
An Associate's degree is just the beginning stage of higher education. If you already have one, then go for a Bachelor's degree in computer science.

---

### Post by EliteLamer on 2011-05-10
> **uRock said:**
> An Associate's degree is just the beginning stage of higher education. If you already have one, then go for a Bachelor's degree in computer science.

A.A. does not transfer into computer science. I would have to go back and take 4 math classes just to start taking computer science classes.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2011-05-10
> **EliteLamer said:**
> A.A. does not transfer into computer science. I would have to go back and take 4 math classes just to start taking computer science classes.

IIRC, there is a big debate about this in the academic world.

I wonder how often even Linus Torvalds has had to use calculus in his work.

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-05-10
> **earthpigg said:**
> IIRC, there is a big debate about this in the academic world.

I wonder how often even Linus Torvalds has had to use calculus in his work.

+1 My network security degree only required one math class and that was math for electronics. The only math I use is when subnetting and even then there are many subnet calculators available online.

---

### Post by EliteLamer on 2011-05-10
> **earthpigg said:**
> IIRC, there is a big debate about this in the academic world.

I wonder how often even Linus Torvalds has had to use calculus in his work.

Yeah it sucks because I failed College Algebra 3 times. So I am not even going to attempt Calc or anything.

For a BS in Information Technology. Which seems to have almost zero linux/unix classes this is what I would have to take before I could even start taking IT classes..

PSY 2012 Introduction to Psychological Science*
STA 2023 Probability and Statistics*
ECO 2013 Economic Principles (Macroeconomics)*
CGS XXXX Any Database Course
COP 2930 IT Programming Concepts
COP 2224 Object Oriented Programming
MAC 1140 Pre-Calculus Course*
PHY XXXX Any Physics Course*
M** XXXX Discrete Mathematics Course

---

### Post by sydbat on 2011-05-10
An "Associates Degree" is, at best, nothing more than a technical diploma. Outside the US (everywhere else in the universe that is) it is not even recognized as anything. It is useless and, IMHO, nothing more than a scam to get more money out of unsuspecting students while giving them virtually nothing in return.

As uRock mentioned> An Associate's degree is just the beginning stage of higher education. If you already have one, then go for a Bachelor's degree in computer science.Get a real degree in IT. It will be much more valuable than any diploma or certificate.

---

### Post by EliteLamer on 2011-05-10
What is a real degree in IT that focuses on Unix/Linux

---

### Post by doas777 on 2011-05-10
> **sydbat said:**
> An "Associates Degree" is, at best, nothing more than a technical diploma. Outside the US (everywhere else in the universe that is) it is not even recognized as anything. It is useless and, IMHO, nothing more than a scam to get more money out of unsuspecting students while giving them virtually nothing in return.

As uRock mentionedGet a real degree in IT. It will be much more valuable than any diploma or certificate.
my pay went up 250% within 3 months of completing my first associates. after the bachleors: 0%. hopefully the masters (in progress) will do me better.

Associates degrees are local workforce education, though they do often turn into 4-year degrees, and can segue into a much more traditional post grad experience as well, if the student is appropriately driven. if nothing else, the local Big School (famous for their football program...) has an average of 5.3 years to completion of a bachelors. their program is also 100% theory. that is the principal differance I've seen between community and world-class colleges (I've done time in both) ; an AS is far more practical than you will ever find at a traditional college, where CS is just an extension of the math and engineering departments.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2011-05-10
> **EliteLamer said:**
> What is a real degree in IT that focuses on Unix/Linux
there isn't one. that was the point I was trying to make with my first post. sorry I didn't make it clearer. if you are in a program that does practical work, then it should cover a number of differant platforms. in college I have taken classes in sys admin on Windows, Novel Netware, and Unix. also took COBOL, Assembler, C++, VB, Java, Python, PL/SQL, and a couple others.

---

