---
title: "Cs4"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by HappinessNow on 2009-10-29
I am taking a Digital Imaging class and I have to say I like CS4 a lot!

Anybody else like CS4?

---

### Post by lzfy on 2009-10-29
No it runs too slow on my pc. I'm still on CS3.

---

### Post by medya on 2009-10-29
do u mean adobe photoshop c4 ?
or adobe dreamweaver c4 ?

---

### Post by epidemiks on 2009-10-29
> **medya said:**
> do u mean adobe photoshop c4 ?
or adobe dreamweaver c4 ?

op is taking a imaging class, not a web design course, so i'd say PS.

CS4 is great

---

### Post by pwnst*r on 2009-10-29
CS4 is great, although overkill for most people, including myself.

---

### Post by madnessjack on 2009-10-29
Just started using it at work today, the interface is cleaner, smarter, saves space, and it's quick. Saying that we had our PCs' hardware updated too so I'm not sure if it would be quicker :P

Upgraded from some CS2 and Studio 8 components. All in all it's good. Not sure it will change my life though.

---

### Post by HappinessNow on 2009-10-30
> **medya said:**
> do u mean adobe photoshop c4 ?
or adobe dreamweaver c4 ?

Adobe Photoshop CS4

> **madnessjack said:**
> Just started using it at work today, the interface is cleaner, smarter, saves space, and it's quick. Saying that we had our PCs' hardware updated too so I'm not sure if it would be quicker :P

Upgraded from some CS2 and Studio 8 components. All in all it's good. Not sure it will change my life though.Taking the Digital Imaging class has definitely thought me a lot about Photoshop, there is no equivalent to it as of yet. That said the GIMP is great for a quick hack or two.

---

