---
title: "....i lost it all...."
date: 2008-07-27
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by myusername on 2008-07-27
my hard drives died today....taking 100 gb of music and pictures with it.

i had to buy an extremely overpriced hd (320 gb for $100) to reinstall everything :(

---

### Post by lisati on 2008-07-27
Ouch! That sounds extremely inconvenient!

---

### Post by karellen on 2008-07-27
...backups, backups....;)

---

### Post by myusername on 2008-07-27
yeah...but as amazing as it sounds....i am not that upset.

---

### Post by RiceMonster on 2008-07-27
Man, I back up everything to my external HD. That would suck if it died. I'm surprised you're not that upset though. I'd be pretty angry lol.

---

### Post by myusername on 2008-07-27
yeah. i just hope i can get all my music off my ipod touch

---

### Post by karellen on 2008-07-27
considering that I have 9 gb of e-books I'd be pretty pissed off by their loss :D

---

### Post by myusername on 2008-07-27
the only thing i was really mad about was having to pay $100 dollars for a hard drive. i could have got double the size from the internet at half the price

---

### Post by EdThaSlayer on 2008-07-27
Make sure to be S.M.A.R.T next time. :)

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-07-27
Back-ups buddy.

I don't use fancy programs, I just copy my video, picture, documents and music folder over once a month to my external hdd.

It takes of few hours, so I leave it on for the night.

--

But I've had it before.

A few years back on an old dell pc (I believe it was an dimension 2050).

---

### Post by original_jamingrit on 2008-07-27
> **myusername said:**
> my hard drives died today....taking 100 gb of music and pictures with it.

i had to buy an extremely overpriced hd (320 gb for $100) to reinstall everything :(

Do you still have them?  It might be possible to salvage some data, unless it was a "Crushed By Piano" type of deaths.

---

