---
title: "11.04 the new Win XP?"
date: 2011-05-19
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by athenroy on 2011-05-19
When Windows 7 was introduced many Windows users,  especially business users, were reluctant to switch since they had all their networks, software, etc. running fine on XP, not to mention talk that some of their software may not work on Win 7 which is partially true.  Win XP, with all the updates installed had become fairly stable, as far as Windows goes.  MS even extended support with updates and such.  So what is my point?

Ubuntu 11.04 uses the Unity desktop by default, but, you can still login to the Classic Desktop, which I do.  Everyone is blaming Ubuntu, but lets put the blame where it belongs and that is on Gnome, not Ubuntu!  If you go to [Gnome.org ]("http://www.gnome.org")and check out Gnome 3, which will probably be used on V 12.x, you'll find them touting the virtues of the Unity type layout.  They even admit that the "new and improved" Gnome 3 will no longer be as customisable as it once was along with a lot of other things.  Lets put the blame where it belongs, on Gnome, not Ubuntu.  Express your concerns to them. :(

Why do people use Linux?  Speed, reliability and customisation.  Much of this is now going "down the drain" with Gnome 3.

What I see is users hanging on to the older versions of Ubuntu that include the Classic desktop option and not upgrading just as the the Win XP users hung on and refused to upgrade to Win 7.  I know I will!

---

### Post by Ctrl-Alt-F1 on 2011-05-19
I stopped using Unity not because of the interface but because it was buggy and would crash my desktop occasionally.  I don't think there is anything wrong with Unity or Gnome Shell's interface, which is what I guess you're referring to when you say Gnome 3.  I've used all of them and think they're just fine (except the bugs in Unity).

---

### Post by Hwæt on 2011-05-19
No software project in the world has ever reached greatness or moved forward without change. A couple years ago KDE 4 had the exact same concerns voiced over it, and now with KDE 4.6, everything works fine and well. Just give it time and Unity may very well achieve its full potential.

---

### Post by ikt on 2011-05-19
it's not the new anything, it's ubuntu 11.04.

---

### Post by kabloink on 2011-05-19
We can blame Gnome for the future loss of Gnome 2, but we can't blame Gnome for Unity.  Unity is Canonicals creation and the success or failure will be attributed to them.

---

### Post by koenn on 2011-05-19
The Gnome project's view on desktop environments is somewhat like the general view on operating systems : they should get out of the way and let the users run their applications. In that perspective, a DE that needs tweaking or configuration by the user, is a badly designed or badly implemented one. 

You can agree or disagree with that view, but it's what Gnome is about, so if you disagree, you'll have to look elsewhere for your desktop needs. 
Ubuntu is pretty much married to Gnome, but there's Kubuntu e.a., or a number of other distros. 



That people use linux because of it's speed, reliability and customisation, is a misunderstanding, on two levels. 
a - it's only true for a few specific subsets of linux users : the geeks, the hobyists, and the server admins. You're projecting your own preferences. 

b- if people praise linux because of it's speed, reliability and customisation, that refers to the kernel, and configurable or customizable means you can patch the source and/or compile it with other options than the vanilla kernel, to better suit specific tasks or specific hardware. 

There is no low that this configurability should extend to DEs or applications. in today's UI design, the overwhelming amount of configurable options in linux end user applications is seen as a weakness, a sign of bad design, and an obstacle to mass adoption. 


So, given Ubuntu's target population, Gnome and Ubuntu are a perfect match, Unity is the natural continuation of the Gnome's project vison on UI and DE design.

There's no one to blame, and you're free to leave.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2011-05-19
people held on to windows xp becausd windows vista was bad.  a few years later and windows 7 came out and most business jumped to upgrade. the reason was two fold. 
first windows xp was out for so long that businesses had there entire companies on it. most workers go through a pc in 3-5 years a decent upgrade path and vista wasnt worth the time if xp was still an option. Win 7 and xp disappearance helped 7 launch very well.

unity isnt gnome 3. dont blame gnome 3 for what ubuntu did. the facts are unity was coming to 11.04 regardless of gnome 3 release schedule. Canonical is trying to make an OS similar to the iphone ui. simple not customizable, and sorta good looking. why, so they can sell support for it. the less the user can do, the easier support is. ubuntu has had customized gnome portions for years. use a vanilla version of gnome and you mmight get lost if your used to ubuntu.

---

### Post by koenn on 2011-05-19
> **LowSky said:**
> why, so they can sell support for it. the less the user can do, the easier support is..

the less the user can f*ck up, the less support he'll need
the more all devices look and behave the same (i.e. factory defaults, not modified by a user), the easier support gets. 
Results in cheaper support, less support needed, happier users/customers. 
(except a few disgruntled hobbyists who want to tweak)

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-05-19
> a - it's only true for a few specific subsets of linux users : the geeks, the hobyists, and the server admins. You're projecting your own preferences.
This is absolutely true, although I don't really know what you would expect, since those are the three categories of people who actually use Linux beyond their phones or the serverside processing going on behind their web browsing.

> b- **if people praise linux because of it's speed, reliability and customisation, that refers to the kernel,** and configurable or customizable means you can patch the source and/or compile it with other options than the vanilla kernel, to better suit specific tasks or specific hardware.
This is obviously not true. The people saying it don't mean it that way. You might mean it that way, and developers and manufacturers might value those things, but when consumers (of this hobbyist category or otherwise) are saying it, then they can't mean something that doesn't apply to them.

> There is no low that this configurability should extend to DEs or applications. in today's UI design, the overwhelming amount of configurable options in linux end user applications is seen as a weakness, a sign of bad design, and an obstacle to mass adoption.
In what sense is kernel-level customizability more useful to an end user than UI configurability? Desktop Linux is still something that people install on formerly Windows machines. It's not as if there are companies out there putting together special Linux builds suited to the hardware needs of the Linux machines they sell, because they aren't selling them in the first place. Again, that's only true of *desktop* Linux, but that's what we're talking about here.

The relevance of configuration options in the desktop UI is arguable, cosmetics for that hobbyist category you referred to. The necessity of configurability in end-user applications to suit a particular workflow is most certainly not.

> The Gnome project's view on desktop environments is somewhat like the general view on operating systems : they should get out of the way and let the users run their applications. 
So then, regarding Gnome 2: What the hell went wrong? The sheer number of UI elements present on the default two-panel layout is a baffling display of arcane features seemingly intended to ward off potential users.

---

### Post by koenn on 2011-05-19
> **Copper Bezel said:**
> This is absolutely true, although I don't really know what you would expect, since those are the three categories of people who actually use Linux beyond their phones or the serverside processing going on behind their web browsing.
They may (still) be the majority of Linux' current user base, but they're not the market Canonical is targeting. 



> **Copper Bezel said:**
> 
This is obviously not true. The people saying it don't mean it that way. You might mean it that way, and developers and manufacturers might value those things, but when consumers (of this hobbyist category or otherwise) are saying it, then they can't mean something that doesn't apply to them.


In what sense is kernel-level customizability more useful to an end user than UI configurability? Desktop Linux is still something that people install on formerly Windows machines. It's not as if there are companies out there putting together special Linux builds suited to the hardware needs of the Linux machines they sell, because they aren't selling them in the first place. Again, that's only true of *desktop* Linux, but that's what we're talking about here.

Long story, and I skipped over some details there. 
Way back when Linux was just a kernel, it was praised for being very configurable, as in: you download source code, you tweak that code as you see fit, you compile it when the compiler options of your choosing. Operating systems don't get more configurable than that. 
So linux=configurable became something of a meme, and later generations of users started using that to sing the praises of linux, even if they just downloaded and installd binaries, or prepackaged distros. The "configuration" shifted to end user customization stuff in DE's and applications.

I'll agree that, for a specific set of users, this 'high level' configuration is what appeals to them in Linux, but essentially it's a flaw, while re.the kernel, it's a feature.

In the kernel, it's a feature because it allows you to adapt that kernel for anything from phones to supercomputers (and from kitchen sinks to dead badgers). You can't artificially limit this discussion to desktops only, because that's not what Linux is made for. It's made as a general pupose kernel, free to be modified for any hardware and any use, and its features and properties reflect that. 


In DE's, end user applications and such, configurability is a flaw, a sign of bad design.

Remember the times when, to run a GUI linux, you needed to input, in the X configuration file , the horizontal and vertical refresh rates of your monitor . X server was extremely configurable. Arguably, auto-detecting these settings, as is done today, as a better solution for 99.9% of the userbase. 

If you're old enough to have used Ms Word around the time of Windows 95, you might remember that the first time you used "Help", you were asked whether you wanted the Help database optimized for speed, or for size.
very configurable, but useless to 99.99 % of the userbase. 


These are extreme examples, but the underlying usuability issue is that for each coonfigurable option, you're forcing the user to make an informed decision, and most users for a mass market product are not that informed.  "Sane defaults" solve a bit of the problem, but they leave the user with uncertainty  : if it's not important, why do i need to make this choice. 

So, the tendency in user interface design is to hide configurable options, or avoid them altogether if possible (eg by auto-detecting the appropriate settings, and don't ask for info you already have)


I'll agree that in certain types of applications, you'll still need to set a wide range of parameters to make the behavior of the application match the intended work flow. 
But in that case, it is (hopefully) more about parameters that reflect variations in the problem domain rather than strictly technical configuration. 

Meanwhile, the UI design can also be used to guide the user towards the most efficient way of using the device at hand, or the most efficient way to accomplish a certain task. This is arguably the case for eg smartphones and desktop environments, and a lot of end user applications.

In such a design, any modification by a user might break the intended workflow and make the use of the device less efficient and less pleasant. 
That is the main idea behind having less configurable UIs.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2011-05-19
> **LowSky said:**
> unity isnt gnome 3. dont blame gnome 3 for what ubuntu did. the facts are unity was coming to 11.04 regardless of gnome 3 release schedule.
You mean Gnome Shell, because 11.10 is going to be based on Gnome3.
> **LowSky said:**
> Canonical is trying to make an OS similar to the iphone ui. simple not customizable, and sorta good looking.
The same can be said for Gnome Shell. Unity and Shell are very similar. Shell is an ui for Gnome3, Unity in 11.10 will also be an ui for Gnome3 (11.04 is Gnome2-based).

---

### Post by el_koraco on 2011-05-19
> **koenn said:**
> b- if people praise linux because of it's speed, reliability and customisation, that refers to the kernel, and configurable or customizable means you can patch the source and/or compile it with other options than the vanilla kernel, to better suit specific tasks or specific hardware. 


Yeah, but you can also patch and compile specific end user applications, be it because you wanna set useflags to avoid "bloat" in Firefox, or because you wanna patch and optimize a file sharing protocol. 

Also, not to get into the whole UI design concept too much, but the new UI for "vanilla" Gnome looks to set a unified interface across various platforms, in which case one might argue that complete defaults might miss out on optimizing the workflow for specific tasks - the same can be said of Unity. Doesn't seem like the rising array of hacks to both UI's is an accident, more like an attempt to adress the perceived deficiencies.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-05-19
I agree that workflow configurations should be a separate consideration from technical details and that those happen in two very different domains. I think, though, that it's exactly the same difference as between the two possible meanings of the statement that Linux is customizable. I mean, yes, the decision of how to build a search database for a help file is one the developers really ought to have made themselves. 

From my entirely personal, hobbyist perspective, customization only means that the thirty-seventh time I have to perform a three-click action, I can instead make it work in one, or that if I'm going to have some little icon visible on the screen I'm looking at for eight hours a day, I'd damn well be able to make it a different color. There's a part that's the playing, and there's a part that's avoiding irritation.

How technical "should" a user have to be? I think it's fairly obvious that something like Windows goes out of its way to make the technical process more opaque than it needs to be and that some Linux distros seem to think of everyday tasks in obscenely technical terms that have no relevance to the user's actual interaction with the software. I also think there's certainly a difference between expecting a user to run an occasional terminal command when necessary and expecting that user to have to poke around in a bunch of text files to make basic functional things work. 

Design decisions that are inconsistent with *either* the technical process behind them *or* the simplest, quickest way to get the user to the actual content or action most relevant are bad ones. Unpredictable automation that requires knowing very specific things about a particular application to avoid unwanted behaviors is no less a danger than are extra steps that needlessly complicate a simple task; they both lead to irritation and lost time.

It's also true that there's no real distinction between something like Android and something like Ubuntu in terms of things that need to get done, and "desktop Linux" certainly doesn't meaningfully differentiate it from Android. (I think it's fairly clear that we're not talking about washing machines; Canonical's choices should have fairly little effect on them.) Ubuntu is, however, operating in the world of desktop-Linux-that-isn't-Android, and as you said, it's joined at the hip with Gnome. It's not something that Canonical built from the ground up toward specific goals. I see your point regarding Canonical's goals, certainly, but I disagree about Gnome's, and I see the differences between Shell and Unity as fairly representative. 

Shell allows, after all, far more customization than Gnome 2 ever did, given its CSS extension base; perhaps that's intended to allow individual distributions to better suit themselves to specific needs and tasks, but the end result will be a rather diverse set of desktop experiences, put together by hobbyists and installed as simply as a new theme. Unity, by contrast, is very much an attempt to reflect an imagined average user, and Canonical has stated as much. I don't really see simplicity and transparency as real goals on the Gnome side - perhaps moreso than they were when Gnome 2 was conceptually put together, but not enough to make Gnome 3 seem simpler than OSX or Windows. Comparing Unity to Windows or OSX as a desktop experience, I'd still think the best advantage Unity has to offer is that it can be skinned.

Again, I fully understand that I'm primarily protecting my own interests. Bad UIs irritate me. What I'm using now resembles Unity with the (to me) irritating bits taken out, and I'd like to go on having the option of taking out the irritating bits. Any UI designed to make everyone moderately happy is going to include some elements that irritate any one user. The questions that come up in the support forums that *aren't* "I broke X trying to Y. Fix it," are "Can I make Z go away?"; I don't think that's an unreasonable question.

I'm not concerned that Ubuntu is going to do anything to alienate hobbyists or that that would have any effect on the distro if Canonical did manage to do so; that's all pure FUD. I'm concerned that there are some legitimately bad design decisions in Unity, some of them having to do with small, magical blue triangles and some not. I *do* appreciate that Canonical and Gnome are both putting some effort into designing a desktop UI around a consistent and sensible workflow. I still think that that could be accomplished with interoperable parts in a way that neither desktop experience is keen to do, and I think that there are advantages for other projects when that approach is taken.

And, once again, I do have my own interests. = )

---

### Post by pookiebear on 2011-05-19
xp. faster, and not fancy compared to 7 (2000 even better)
10.04.2 is faster and not as fancy as 11.04

Being a 20 year IT support guy. I like faster over fancy everyday. 

My rant. everywhere I look at work stuff is slowing down but getting fancier looking. This is horrible to me. I want faster and more power efficient please.

---

### Post by neu5eeCh on 2011-05-19
> **koenn said:**
> The Gnome project's view on desktop environments is somewhat like the general view on operating systems : they should get out of the way and let the users run their applications. 

And yet that's precisely what Gnome 3 _**doesn't**_ do. It refuses to get out of the way, unlike Gnome 2.

Your assertion is so far removed from the actual outcome that I wonder on what you've based your information?

---

### Post by Timmer1240 on 2011-05-19
Im still running Gnome 2.30.2 I love it someday Ill switch maybe xfce because I want a responsive system I just dont like a heavyweight desktop

---

### Post by false truths on 2011-05-19
Honestly, I can see how Unity would be considered like XP. I can't understand how people compare it to Vista, though. When I boot my laptop with 11.04 and Unity, I peak under 200MB RAM used. I rarely go near 1GB RAM even though I have 2GB to use.

I can also understand how it is compared to Macs, since the UI is much simplified and significantly more icon-based, but then again, Windows 7 is that way, too.

Desktop environments in general have found what works and decided to go with it. It just happens that what works, well, works regardless of what OS is behind the interface. Unity is far from complete and I really hope some things get changed up, like a replacement for the Dash. Overall it's a very well-made and very usable DE, though.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-05-20
> **LowSky said:**
> people held on to windows xp becausd windows vista was bad.  a few years later and windows 7 came out and most business jumped to upgrade.

Windows Vista wasn't much worse than Windows 7, it just had low performance on portable computers. For desktops it was fine.

Businesses have not 'jumped to upgrade' to Windows 7 - the place I work still uses XP. And IE 6!

The problem is that people got too comfortable with Windows XP, so they don't even want a change for the better.

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-20
Yup. On all my Windows 7 computers, I put back in the Classic Menu. I can't stand the new one.

The rest I like. ;-)

---

### Post by MooPi on 2011-05-20
Regardless of who you want to blame people move on. This is a prime example of someone that put it into words and action.............[http://www.resplect.com/?q=node/30](http://www.resplect.com/?q=node/30)
People move away from dysfunction. :(
I can use Natty but without Unity .

---

### Post by nrundy on 2011-05-20
> **athenroy said:**
> When Windows 7 was introduced many Windows users,  especially business users, were reluctant to switch since they had all their networks, software, etc. running fine on XP, not to mention talk that some of their software may not work on Win 7 which is partially true.  Win XP, with all the updates installed had become fairly stable, as far as Windows goes.  MS even extended support with updates and such.  So what is my point?

Ubuntu 11.04 uses the Unity desktop by default, but, you can still login to the Classic Desktop, which I do.  Everyone is blaming Ubuntu, but lets put the blame where it belongs and that is on Gnome, not Ubuntu!  If you go to [Gnome.org ]("http://www.gnome.org")and check out Gnome 3, which will probably be used on V 12.x, you'll find them touting the virtues of the Unity type layout.  They even admit that the "new and improved" Gnome 3 will no longer be as customisable as it once was along with a lot of other things.  Lets put the blame where it belongs, on Gnome, not Ubuntu.  Express your concerns to them. :(



I have nothing but praise for Unity. yeah there's rough edges, but the overall design principles are solid. It is a HUGE improvement over what was.

People are griping because they have developed habits. Once they develop new "unity" habits realization will sink in that it's actually better. People are just like that. That's why it takes leadership (ie, shuttleworth) to actually get improvements made. Most people don't want what's best for them. Change can be tough, even when it's change for the better.

---

### Post by 3xp10r3r|X13 on 2011-05-20
I don't get your concerns... There's still the awesome ubuntu, we all like, underneath what ever desktop environment you're using. So if you want it simple you stick with unity or gnome and if you want to have the choice and control of everything, you just use KDE.

---

### Post by Kenc3 on 2011-05-21
It seems that for me to use 11.04 I would have to either run all Ubuntu applications or learn some code to use WINE and get my paid for programs from my Windows side of the computer or run a dual system. 
I just wanted something that I could set up without learning a lot of code and then go on with my writing using my programs I paid for.
Maybe that is not what this OS is for.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-05-21
Well, it's not really for using programs you paid for, no. The rest works.

---

### Post by Kexolino on 2011-05-21
As I see it, they want to draw attention by using Unity... But I don't think Ubuntu is already at the point where getting more users is as simple as showing something new. And if someone new coming from Windows or Mac tries Ubuntu because of Unity, and sees the bugs, they just probably stay with XP or whatever, because even though it has bugs and viruses and all that, they learned to live with those and don't need new ones. (And telling them that it's not same is no use, I've tried, and out of 10 XP users usually only one understands...)

I think the simple Gnome 2 interface could have lived on with at least 11.04 (as default), it's not *that* dead... IMO a more or less familiar UI and stability is better for getting new users than a newer and still unstable one (which they have to learn to use).

I don't get why they are in such a hurry right now...

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-05-21
> **Kexolino said:**
> 
I don't get why they are in such a hurry right now...

Realistically Canonical only has a limited number of years to get Ubuntu picked up by the OEMs before it will have to admit defeat in the desktop space. Could be five years, could be ten, but they won't be able to keep hammering away at making money from Linux desktops indefinitely without some concrete successes, unless they are happy to build a good server business and use it to keep subsidising development on the desktop.

---

### Post by Kexolino on 2011-05-21
> **Paqman said:**
> Realistically Canonical only has a limited number of years to get Ubuntu picked up by the OEMs before it will have to admit defeat in the desktop space. Could be five years, could be ten, but they won't be able to keep hammering away at making money from Linux desktops indefinitely without some concrete successes, unless they are happy to build a good server business and use it to keep subsidising development on the desktop.

OK, I understand now... But then it would have been easier to take Gnome Shell, make a few changes and an Ubuntu theme for it, and it would have been more stable than Unity is now (if Canonical helped develop it or whatever)... Or wait one release with Unity. 

But this has been already stated before a few times I guess, plus I'm no Unity basher (I actually like it, but the bugs keep me from using it).

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-05-21
I think it has a lot to do with getting the bugs worked out of Unity for the LTS. 11.10 is supposed to be built on Gnome 3, after all. It's a lot of new stuff to iron out before 12.04.

Unity itself seems to be a mix of not actually liking the direction Shell was going (which in terms of the basic UI layout changed quite a bit in the time it took Canonical to write three different code bases for the one consistent UI they were working with) and wanting to distinguish Ubuntu as a distro. I mean, Canonical has said both of those things.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-05-21
> **Kexolino said:**
> OK, I understand now... But then it would have been easier to take Gnome Shell, make a few changes and an Ubuntu theme for it, and it would have been more stable than Unity is now (if Canonical helped develop it or whatever)... Or wait one release with Unity. 


Maybe, but Canonical and Gnome don't seem to be getting along right now. Canonical already had Unity anyway, it was developed secretly in-house for an unnamed OEM, who seems to have subsequently decided not to use it. Canonical then decided to bring it into the mainstream Ubuntu project. They may have tried to integrate some of the code into Gnome 3, but they've been having extremely difficulty getting their work into Gnome (which is probably due to failings on both sides). Gnome3 seems to have picked up on some of the ideas in Unity and used them, even if they haven't actually accepted code directly.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2011-05-21
> **Paqman said:**
> (which is probably due to failings on both sides)
And Red Hat (no need to say more...)

---

### Post by Johnsie on 2011-05-21
The people at Gnome wouldn't listen to what Ubuntu developers and users had to say. It put Cannonical in a position where they could not control the direction of their distro and the Gnome people wouldnt implement anything that Ubuntu users wanted. It makes sense for Ubuntu to go their own way. Version 1 and 2 of Unity will suck, but eventually it will develop into something the users want. It takes a long time for a  desktop environment to mature.... Windows had 3.1, 95, 98, 2000 etc before XP became the one people liked. I think in a year or two Unity will be good. Were they right to force as the default? Yes. There is no better way to get feedback and there is always the option of alternative desktops. The best way to help Ubuntu is to suggest ways to make things better. Gnome 2 is no longer being developed so staying with that would be pointless. Helping to test Ocelot will really help get things going the right way.

---

