---
title: "U413?"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by SpenceMakesSense on 2010-05-03
The other night I was on this  forum site that was only navigational by commands. It looked like you were in CMD when you started out. It was all green text. Thats all I can describe it as other then the name of the site was like U4** something or another. Anybody know what I'm talking about?:confused::confused:

---

### Post by Phrea on 2010-05-03
U413.com

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2010-05-03
I tried to log in as NEO but got "Invalid Credentials"

What kind of site is it?

---

### Post by JamezQ on 2010-05-03
> **tgalati4 said:**
> I tried to log in as NEO but got "Invalid Credentials"

What kind of site is it?


It is a Board, a text based one. And it is invite only.

---

### Post by chucky chuckaluck on 2010-05-03
have you checked out the video walkthrough on youtube?  [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8_eQKNonL-k](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8_eQKNonL-k)

---

### Post by SpenceMakesSense on 2010-05-03
> **Phrea said:**
> U413.com

Thats it! Thanks a lot:popcorn:

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-05-03
> **JamezQ said:**
> It is a Board, a text based one. And it is invite only.

I've found plenty of invite codes...but what's the command to enter the invite codes? (yes...I tried Invite Code[:] xxxxxxxxx...)

---

### Post by DeadSuperHero on 2010-05-03
Sounds a lot like a BBS, really.

---

### Post by Berk on 2010-05-03
> **98cwitr said:**
> I've found plenty of invite codes...but what's the command to enter the invite codes? (yes...I tried Invite Code[:] xxxxxxxxx...)

 From what I can tell, use the command 3.14 or pi first, then put the code in after, but that may be wrong.

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-05-03
nope, keep getting a Invalid Command error. :confused:

---

### Post by chriswyatt on 2010-05-03
The exclusivity of it is an instant turn off for me really.  I imagine its full of trolls and people that are up themselves, could be wrong though.

---

### Post by DeadSuperHero on 2010-05-03
I'm trying to figure out how to register over there, I'm curious.

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-05-03
well if you figure it out let us know :)

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2010-05-03
From what i've heard, the whole forum is comprised of puzzles, and that's how you get around.

---

### Post by DeadSuperHero on 2010-05-03
Finally got registered over there. You have to look around online for codes and eventually you'll get lucky.

Very cool site.

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-05-03
what command or process did you use to get the invite code to take?

---

### Post by undecim on 2010-05-03
Found a code here: [http://boards.4chan.org/g/res/10203787#10203921](http://boards.4chan.org/g/res/10203787#10203921)

I'm in already.

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-05-03
> **undecim said:**
> Found a code here: [http://boards.4chan.org/g/res/10203787#10203921](http://boards.4chan.org/g/res/10203787#10203921)

I'm in already.

you know 404 backwards is still 404 :popcorn:

---

### Post by DeadSuperHero on 2010-05-03
> **98cwitr said:**
> what command or process did you use to get the invite code to take?

Just the code itself.

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-05-03
did you copy pasta or just type it in? I keep getting Command Unknown

nm, found a good invite code...im in.

---

### Post by xDarkicex on 2010-05-03
Your link gives me file not found..?

---

### Post by The Thunder Chimp on 2010-05-03
> **xDarkicex said:**
> Your link gives me file not found..?

Same here.

---

### Post by The Thunder Chimp on 2010-05-03
I tried like a hundred.

---

### Post by Dayofswords on 2010-05-03
i got in, just copy and paste the numbers, not the "invite code" part

try a few here
[http://pastebin.com/QjtWa330](http://pastebin.com/QjtWa330)

---

### Post by DeadSuperHero on 2010-05-03
I have 30 invite codes if anyone wants any. Just PM me! :)

---

### Post by HappinessNow on 2010-05-04
I'm in. :P


typed in the command:

```
pi
```

silly fun :P

practical command:

```
help
```

---

### Post by The Thunder Chimp on 2010-05-04
> **Dayofswords said:**
> i got in, just copy and paste the numbers, not the "invite code" part

try a few here
[http://pastebin.com/QjtWa330](http://pastebin.com/QjtWa330)

That's what I was missing...Just copy paste the numbers.

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2010-05-04
I'm in. Cool little board. It'd be cool if they used some 'nix commands. Like ls fr viewing the board topics, and pwd for telling you what board you're in.

---

### Post by Warpnow on 2010-05-04
Does anyone have any invites? I would like to check this place out, but can't seem to find any that haven't been used.

So, I got an invite now. Neat tech, but...anyone know -why- this place exists?

---

### Post by HappinessNow on 2010-05-04
> **dragos240 said:**
> I'm in. Cool little board. It'd be cool if they used some 'nix commands. Like ls fr viewing the board topics, and pwd for telling you what board you're in.it would be cool if they used sudo

```
sudo make me a sandwich
```

or at least 

```
moo
```

---

### Post by RiceMonster on 2010-05-04
got in. Pretty cool stuff. Just type help or click on the number on anything (once you're in, I mean) and it becomes pretty easy.

---

### Post by Lightstar on 2010-05-04
I thought I would hate a pseudo-terminal web forum, but it's interesting!
I wonder how long my interest will last...

---

### Post by Warpnow on 2010-05-05
I told my fiance about it. She went there and got mad about not knowing what to do so typed a few obscenities, and it responded by giving me a 24 hour ban on the IP.

[quote="413"]
> You have been banned.
> Reason: Being a bitch.
> Your ban will expire on 5/5/2010 7:04:27 PM

> Loading 	....
[/quote]

---

### Post by Lightstar on 2010-05-05
> **Warpnow said:**
> I told my fiance about it. She went there and got mad about not knowing what to do so typed a few obscenities, and it responded by giving me a 24 hour ban on the IP.

haha, picky robot, or very childish moderators.
I wouldn't bother going back.

---

### Post by DeadSuperHero on 2010-05-05
Hey, the invite codes stop working on Friday. I still have about 20-something left, so hit me up, guys!

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2010-05-05
Anyone try accessing u413 in links? It works pretty well, only difference is that it's not green. Maybe it'll work in elinks.

---

### Post by DeadSuperHero on 2010-05-05
> **dragos240 said:**
> Anyone try accessing u413 in links? It works pretty well, only difference is that it's not green. Maybe it'll work in elinks.

They have a version you can run from the CLI in PHP. Needs php5-cli to work. Save for some indentation errors and a lack of BASH's autocomplete, it works fairly well. They're working on porting it to straight up C.

You can download it and run it in the CLI here. 
[http://deqode.felosity.nl/u413/releases/u413-cli-0.1-php.rar](http://deqode.felosity.nl/u413/releases/u413-cli-0.1-php.rar)

Edit: And yeah, in my experience Links has been okay-ish, save for the fact that you have to use an input box rather than a prompt...

---

### Post by Phrea on 2010-05-05
> **Warpnow said:**
> So, I got an invite now. Neat tech, but...anyone know -why- this place exists?

The answer is: why not.

---

### Post by jetsam on 2010-05-06
[Maybe or maybe not]("http://www.alice-in-wonderland.net/alice7a.html#5").

---

### Post by Phrea on 2010-05-06
> **DeadSuperHero said:**
> Hey, the invite codes stop working on Friday. I still have about 20-something left, so hit me up, guys!

I also have 20 or so left [I only requested 25].
Novelty has already worn off, so it seems.

---

