---
title: "Looking for a &#1088;&#1091;&#1089;&#1089;&#1082;&#1080;&#1081; keyboard.  Need keyboard with only Russian cyrillic letters"
date: 2016-05-01
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by MechaMechanism on 2016-05-01
Can't use bilingual keyboard if I can help it.  I am taking Russian language class at school.  Have taken only 5 classes so far.  Would like to buy USB keyboard from Russia with only Cyrillic letters if possible.  Having English letters makes it confusing.  Can not find Russian store that sells the keyboard I want.  I tried to sign up at the Russian LOCO forum, but they use 2 sneaky phrase boxes and I don't know how to answer them.  Since I'm a member here, here I am.

Can anybody help.  I will buy from US if I have to, but buying from Russia would really be neat.  Thank you.

---

### Post by rewyllys on 2016-05-02
I suggest looking at what Amazon,com offers. 

They have keyboards with both Cyrillic and English letters, from about $15 and up.  

They also have stickers that you can paste on the keys of your keyboard, some of them transparent and some not, for under $10.

Buying from Russia would probably entail extra costs because of currency exchange difficulties.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-05-02
> They also have stickers that you can paste on the keys of your keyboard, some of them transparent and some not, for under $10.

For that matter you can make your own stickly labels and put them on a new second keyboard. You may find that with USB it is possible to have 2 keyboards plugged in at the same time and switch between time. Provided you switch keyboard layouts as well.

If you really want to jump in the deep end of the pool then dual boot with a version of Ubuntu with Russian as the language for the OS.

Regards.

---

