---
title: "59°C (138.2°F) for my HDD, is that okay?"
date: 2009-04-30
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by PryGuy on 2009-04-30
Good day to you!
Hddtemp just shown me that my Western Digital WD2500JS is 59°C (138.2°F). I got this computer under the table in a special shelf. Is the temperature critical?

---

### Post by SuperSonic4 on 2009-04-30
Lower would be better but 58 isn't catastrophic

---

### Post by Spiritous on 2009-04-30
I agree... It's fine... Don't worry ;)

---

### Post by garythegoth on 2009-04-30
Is it a Quantum Fireball?

---

### Post by PurposeOfReason on 2009-04-30
Despite what everyone has said, it really depends on the HDD in question. In this case, a WD Caviar shouldn't be getting that hot unless there is a lot of IO activity. And I mean a lot. Throw in a fan in front of it and you're good.

---

### Post by PryGuy on 2009-05-01
Well, there's one thing that worries me, my GFs PC that stands near has Seagate HDD that is 35°C (without activity). About the same Inwin case, no fans at all...

---

### Post by binbash on 2009-05-01
mine is max 51 under heavy loader.59 is a little high in my opinion.

---

### Post by jespdj on 2009-05-01
59 degrees Celsius definitely sounds very hot for a harddrive! In my opinion, it is really too hot and it's not OK!

I had problems with a Seagate harddrive in a desktop computer when it became hotter than 50 Celsius. I put a special harddisk cooler on it (with two small fans) and the problems went away.

You should really check if your computer is adequately cooled. Make sure that enough air can flow through the computer, open it up to see if there are no cables or other things in the way that can obstruct airflow.

---

### Post by mister_p_1998 on 2009-05-01
Id try putting a case fan in front of the drive blowing over it. Ive done this before (in my home server) and lowered the drive temperature by 15 C!

Steve

---

### Post by disturbed1 on 2009-05-01
> **garythegoth said:**
> Is it a Quantum Fireball?

You owe me a keyboard :P


This is for a WD3200JB
> 
**Operating Temperature and Humidity**
Temperature  5°C to 55°C (41°F to 131°F)                     



And for the 2500AAJS
> 
**Temperature (English)**
    Operating    32° F to 140° F
    Non-operating    -40° F to 149° F
**Temperature (Metric)**
    Operating    -0° C to 60° C
    Non-operating    -40° C to 65° C



I would get a fan on it. Heat will quickly destroy your hard drive. Run a complete smart test on it as well. If it has been running that hot for a while, it ***_could***_ be near failure. Run the test first though before you freak out :)

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-05-01
What capacity is it? 250 gigs? The bigger capacity ones tend to run hotter... I guess because they are physically thicker. Having said that, my 1TB, 500GB and 160GB are all running at the same temperature at the moment: 30 celcius.

During summer, I've seen the 500GB get up to 40 celcius.

Antec makes a special heatsink, fan and temperature monitor for hard disks. It fits into one of your 5 1/4 inch bays and your HDD fits into this. On the front is a digital readout of the temperature. The disk is surrounded by a big heatsink with a fan to keep it cool. I have no idea what they cost, but I've always wanted to be hardcore enough to need one :-)

Also, if your computer has a dust filter, check it.

---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2009-05-01
59 C is only 100 F. An easy way to covert is: since 1 degree C is = to 1.8 F just multiply by 2 (59 * 2 = 118) then subtract 10% (10% = 18) (118 - 18 = 100)

---

### Post by jespdj on 2009-05-01
> **swoll1980 said:**
> 59 C is only 100 F. An easy way to covert is: since 1 degree C is = to 1.8 F just multiply by 2 (59 * 2 = 118) then subtract 10% (10% = 18) (118 - 18 = 100)
No, that is wrong. 100 F is approximately the body temperature of a normal human being, and 59 Celsius is definitely much hotter than body temperature (which is 37.5 Celsius).

Try typing in "59 celsius in fahrenheit" in Google (and discover Google's calculator feature!). It will tell you: 59 degrees Celsius = 138,2 Fahrenheit

---

### Post by m_duck on 2009-05-01
For reference my 400 GB WD Caviar sits around 30°C with little fluctuation, though it does have a fan in front of it. Same goes for my Hitachi Deskstars.

---

### Post by Dougie187 on 2009-05-01
> **swoll1980 said:**
> 59 C is only 100 F. An easy way to covert is: since 1 degree C is = to 1.8 F just multiply by 2 (59 * 2 = 118) then subtract 10% (10% = 18) (118 - 18 = 100)

Lol, thats not how you convert from C to F. It's close, but you do it like this.

```

(1.8)*C + 32

```
You can't forget the 32, because 0C is 32F.

So in this case, 59C -> 138.2F

Also, it is mentioned in the Thread title.

---

### Post by Xkutzy on 2009-05-01
I googled your HDD model number and found the spec. It gives the operating range as 5c to 55c, so 59c is too high.

Then I added temperature to the search. It seems alot of people are having heat issues with these drives, but it may be down to a drive firmware error that is reporting the wrong temperature. It would be worth you taking a more detailed look.

I also had a problem with a HDD running hot. The PC (a Dell Optiplex) is a SFF design and the heat from the CPU is blown onto the HDD by the cooling fan. This seems like a strange design to me. Dell tend to run their fans at a slow speed to keep the noise levels down. I solved the problem by using Speedfan in Windows and i8kutils in linux to bias the base fan speed up a bit. This knocked 8-10c off the idle temperature.

---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2009-05-01
> **jespdj said:**
> No, that is wrong. 100 F is approximately the body temperature of a normal human being, and 59 Celsius is definitely much hotter than body temperature (which is 37.5 Celsius).

Try typing in "59 celsius in fahrenheit" in Google (and discover Google's calculator feature!). It will tell you: 59 degrees Celsius = 138,2 Fahrenheit

that is wrong I'm sorry.  When x is 0, y is 32. When x is 100, y is 212. 212-32=180 which is a 180/100 ratio. 
y= (1.8/1*x)+32 which is 138.2 F
My math teacher is full of crap.

---

### Post by Skripka on 2009-05-01
> **binbash said:**
> mine is max 51 under heavy loader.59 is a little high in my opinion.

It is quite high, IMHO.  My drives don't go over 30C even in summer in my tower...of couse I have good airflow in my case.

---

### Post by garythegoth on 2009-05-01
> **disturbed1 said:**
> You owe me a keyboard :P


This is for a WD3200JB



And for the 2500AAJS




I would get a fan on it. Heat will quickly destroy your hard drive. Run a complete smart test on it as well. If it has been running that hot for a while, it ***_could_*** be near failure. Run the test first though before you freak out :)

Hehe..

---

### Post by PryGuy on 2009-05-01
I will probably replace my drive as soon as I can. This temperature worries me. Cooling is not the solution if something's wrong with the drive. Will check the SMART status soon. I must add that this drive is about 3 years old or even older. 250Gb was a very big hard drive those days.

---

### Post by Spiritous on 2009-05-01
You can just laze out and put a fan onto it on a high speed... If you want to be safe then phone the manufactures and say what to do, or if its dangerously high. After all, they made it :P

---

### Post by Xkutzy on 2009-05-01
Before you rush to replace this drive check out the following link. It is the list of drives Netgear recommends for their NAS boxes.

[http://www.readynas.com/?page_id=82](http://www.readynas.com/?page_id=82)

Particularly the section Incompatibility Notes.

"Western Digital JS/KS/YD/YS - These models of Western Digital disks may return inaccurate temperature causing intermittent warnings and possible forced shutdowns, and we cannot recommend these disks at this time."

Your disk drive seems to have a known firmware bug that results in higher temperatures being reported than are actually present.

---

### Post by PryGuy on 2009-05-01
> **Xkutzy said:**
> "Western Digital JS/KS/YD/YS - These models of Western Digital disks may return inaccurate temperature causing intermittent warnings and possible forced shutdowns, and we cannot recommend these disks at this time."

Your disk drive seems to have a known firmware bug that results in higher temperatures being reported than are actually present.Thanks, bud, you are the man! Rule, Britain! \\:D/

---

