---
title: ".....installed Windows now I need anit-virus...."
date: 2009-07-05
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by stuart.reinke on 2009-07-05
Howdy and greetings from Chrome browser running under Windows XP.

As hard as I tried to remain 100% Linux, I finally encountered a situation that requires Windows#-o

I am quite proud of myself however, I installed Windows, reinstalled GRUB, and edited the menu.lst file without turning my computer into an expensive paperweight. :lolflag:

Anyway, can someone recommend a good free or opensource anti-virus program.

Thanks for any advice you may have.

P.S. This Chrome browser rocks!!:guitar:  can't wait till it's available for Linux.

---

### Post by b@sh_n3rd on 2009-07-05
Hi, yeah I'm most *impatiently* waiting for Chrome to be available on Ubuntu/Linux too...It's the best browser I've used so far. To answer your Q dude I say "Avast!"...It's the best, NO bug has EVER been able to stay in my PC with *that* on...I HIGHLY Recommend it...Do all the time! :D Get the Home version it's good enough and FREE...Oh yeah and it's 100% automatic and it talks when it updates etc. which just makes it cooler...and the skins too :D

[http://www.avast.com/](http://www.avast.com/)

---

### Post by I-75 on 2009-07-05
AVG and it is free.

---

### Post by The Real Dave on 2009-07-05
I've been using [**_Comodo Internet Security_**]("http://personalfirewall.comodo.com/download_firewall.html") for quite a while now. Its a free anti-virus and firewall.

The firewall can be a bit intrusive at times, but once you agree to one thing, it remembers your choice, and theirs options such as "Trusted Application", "Windows System Application", "Browser" etc etc 

The antivirus is good, though if you want you can just install the firewall (or just the AV for that matter) and use whichever other program you want.

I use both the AV and the Firewall, and really like em. Their easy on the system power too.

Also, you could check out [_**ClamWin**_]("http://www.clamwin.com/") for on-demand scanning, however, be aware thats its not real time and wont actively protect you. As far as other programs go, [_**AVG Free**_]("http://free.avg.com/") is a good antivirus choice, and [_**Zone Alarm**_]("http://www.zonealarm.com/security/en-us/home.htm?lid=en-us") is a nice firewall.

Hope I helped :D

---

### Post by wgarider on 2009-07-05
> **stuart.reinke said:**
> 
Anyway, can someone recommend a good free or opensource anti-virus program.


Clam Win..........

---

### Post by aysiu on 2009-07-05
I would recommend a limited user account.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-07-05
> **i-75 said:**
> avg and it is free.

+1

---

### Post by monsterstack on 2009-07-05
[CENTER][IMG]http://i717.photobucket.com/albums/ww177/stuffandstuffand/Screenshot-8-1.png[/IMG][/CENTER]

Uh, am I missing something, here?

---

### Post by stuart.reinke on 2009-07-05
Uh, am I missing something, here?[/QUOTE]

I thought that Chromium and Chrome were not the same thing.

Am I mistaken?

Thanks for all the advice. I have some homework to do. ):P

---

### Post by Hyper Tails on 2009-07-05
Rising anti-virus FTW!!

---

### Post by hyperdude111 on 2009-07-05
> **stuart.reinke said:**
> Uh, am I missing something, here?

> I thought that Chromium and Chrome were not the same thing.

Am I mistaken?

Thanks for all the advice. I have some homework to do. ):P

Chromium is basically chrome.

There is an official alpha of chrome and many daily builds of chromium. They are made by the same people.

Stay away from crossover chromium. Its just wine, dont get 'chromium' and 'crossover chromium' mixed up.

---

### Post by Cam42 on 2009-07-05
MalwareBytes Anti Malware

---

### Post by Swagman on 2009-07-05
Best anti virus for windows ?

easy.. **DON'T** use windows for surfing the net

end of

Use you Ubuntu install and keep windows solely for that app that you can't live without.

---

### Post by izizzle on 2009-07-05
Avira AntiVirus.

---

### Post by stuart.reinke on 2009-07-05
> **Swagman said:**
> Best anti virus for windows ?

easy.. **DON'T** use windows for surfing the net

end of

Use you Ubuntu install and keep windows solely for that app that you can't live without.

That's my plan. But maybe I'll occasionally want to check something out without having to reboot.

I wish my computer had enough power to run VirtualBox.

---

### Post by tbroderick on 2009-07-05
If you are a Comcast user, you can get McAfee for free.

If not, user account + hardware firewall + threatfire + common sense.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2009-07-05
After I "fix" friends and family computers, I install Avast. It has anti-virus, anti-spyware, anti-rootkit, and it checks P2P, IM, email, and web for malware. It is free; however, it has to be registered.

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2009-07-05
I always use avast free antivirus with safernetworkings spybot search and destroy

Not open source but free.

---

