---
title: "50 50 50"
date: 2012-08-23
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by walker195 on 2012-08-23
YAY i finally hit 50 posts help me celebrate

(picture courtesy of google images)

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-08-23
And now, it seems that you just can't stop. You're at 53 now. :)

---

### Post by walker195 on 2012-08-23
make it 54 lol

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-08-23
Take some of my beans.  I have more years than you have beans.  You know how old men are.  Beans can be a problem!  ;)

---

### Post by KiwiNZ on 2012-08-23
hmmmm, maybe the threshold for editing ones profile should be raised to 150

---

### Post by synaptix on 2012-08-23
> **KiwiNZ said:**
> hmmmm, maybe the threshold for editing ones profile should be raised to 150

I'd support this.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-08-23
> **KiwiNZ said:**
> hmmmm, maybe the threshold for editing ones profile should be raised to 150

Hopefully, he just doesn't understand how forum tags work yet.


Edit: I don't think so. Those urls are obviously spam.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-08-23
> **forrestcupp said:**
> ... Those urls are obviously spam.
Did someone remove them? Or did I just look in the wrong place? I visited the "public profile" and the various tabs in there.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-08-24
> **vasa1 said:**
> Did someone remove them? Or did I just look in the wrong place? I visited the "public profile" and the various tabs in there.

Yeah, they got removed.

---

### Post by walker195 on 2012-08-25
thank you very much i wasnt spamming the forums my signature was set to that by a friend as a joke and its insulting for you to say i would spam

---

### Post by codemaniac on 2012-08-25
> **QIII said:**
> Take some of my beans.  I have more years than you have beans.  You know how old men are.  Beans can be a problem!  ;)

LOL . QIII you are hilarious as ever :lolflag:

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-08-25
> **walker195 said:**
> thank you very much i wasnt spamming the forums my signature was set to that by a friend as a joke and its insulting for you to say i would spam

Your friend has very bad taste in jokes. That kind of stuff can get you in trouble.

---

### Post by synaptix on 2012-08-25
> **walker195 said:**
> thank you very much i wasnt spamming the forums my signature was set to that by a friend as a joke and its insulting for you to say i would spam

Your account here is your responsibility, as per your registration agreement with this forum.

---

### Post by walker195 on 2012-08-26
I walk off to the bathroom didnt notice anything when i got back

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2012-08-26
> **walker195 said:**
> I walk off to the bathroom didnt notice anything when i got back

In my younger days, I used to have friends like that.  :(

---

### Post by kevdog on 2012-08-26
Why am I wasting my own time reading this thread??  I have no one to blame but myself!

---

### Post by KiwiNZ on 2012-08-26
50..49..48..47........1 closed

---

