---
title: "2.6.13 kernel released"
date: 2005-08-28
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by matthew on 2005-08-28
For those who like to compile...

[http://kernel.org/](http://kernel.org/)

---

### Post by poofyhairguy on 2005-08-29
[QUOTE=matthew]For those who like to compile...
[/QUOTE]

bleh.

---

### Post by tom-ubuntu on 2005-08-29
[QUOTE=poofyhairguy]bleh.[/QUOTE]
Haha

No, thanks. That was one of the reasons why I switched from Gentoo to Ubuntu ;)

---

### Post by luca_linux on 2005-08-29
I'll give it a try, instead.

---

### Post by sapo on 2005-08-29
[QUOTE=poofyhairguy]bleh.[/QUOTE]
 bleh²

---

### Post by tseliot on 2005-08-29
[QUOTE=matthew]For those who like to compile...

[http://kernel.org/](http://kernel.org/)[/QUOTE]
I'll test it as soon as I get my computer back. Thanks

---

### Post by jdong on 2005-08-29
Something about the 2.6 kernel really concerns me.... The change from 2.6.12 to 2.6.13 encompases more dramatic changes than from 2.4.1 to 2.4.29....

As a result, I think the general "update to the latest stable kernel of the same major revision" rule for production systems doesn't work out anymore. Personally, I've given up on compiling my own kernels because I simply lack the time to keep up with lkml and the other miscellaneous git trees that contain vital patches. One must trust his distribution to do so.

Breezy's not gonna get this; already past feature freeze. SuSE will get some form of 2.6.13 for 10.0 -- they're currently running off 2.6.13-rcx-gity patches. We can of course expect RedHat to update Fedora with 2.6.13 kernels. :)

---

### Post by drizek on 2005-08-29
[QUOTE=jdong]Something about the 2.6 kernel really concerns me.... The change from 2.6.12 to 2.6.13 encompases more dramatic changes than from 2.4.1 to 2.4.29....

As a result, I think the general "update to the latest stable kernel of the same major revision" rule for production systems doesn't work out anymore. Personally, I've given up on compiling my own kernels because I simply lack the time to keep up with lkml and the other miscellaneous git trees that contain vital patches. One must trust his distribution to do so.

Breezy's not gonna get this; already past feature freeze. SuSE will get some form of 2.6.13 for 10.0 -- they're currently running off 2.6.13-rcx-gity patches. We can of course expect RedHat to update Fedora with 2.6.13 kernels. :)[/QUOTE]
 ya, im running rc6 here in suse, and i was just about to check if the final has been reelased yet.

---

### Post by Ubunted on 2005-08-29
A bit off-topic but... I'm curious, why have I heard absolutely nothing about the 2.7 or 2.8 kernels? Seems to me 2.6 has been out for a while now, has Linus even begun 2.7 yet?

---

### Post by jdong on 2005-08-29
[QUOTE=Ubunted]A bit off-topic but... I'm curious, why have I heard absolutely nothing about the 2.7 or 2.8 kernels? Seems to me 2.6 has been out for a while now, has Linus even begun 2.7 yet?[/QUOTE]

No; traditionally, once 2.4 is released, features cannot be added to the branch anymore. Sure a driver here and there can be allowed in, but not the kind of patches that have been accepted in the 2.6 phase (modular IO schedulers for one thing, Preempt of BKL, etc)

With 2.6, Linus is allowing new features, though there's a mandatory stabilization period. In addition, each stable release will have point revisions to correct bugs, for the most recent stable release(s).

The bottom line is, as Linus and Morton both said before in interviews, there's greater responsibility being placed on distribution vendors to maintain stable, secure, and feature-filled kernel lines.

---

