---
title: "."
date: 2009-02-17
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2009-02-17
your first Beatles album?  mine was Sgt. peppers.  \\:D/

---

### Post by RichardLinx on 2009-02-17
I never owned a beatles Album, ever.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2009-02-17
consider yourself one of the few.

---

### Post by crimesaucer on 2009-02-17
Revolver. (not counting my parent's albums that I listened to when I was really young)

---

### Post by RichardLinx on 2009-02-17
> **wolfen69 said:**
> consider yourself one of the few.

I'm sure there are millions, billions of people out there that never purchased a beatles album. Billions!

---

### Post by -grubby on 2009-02-17
The thread title was hard to click on :/

---

### Post by RichardLinx on 2009-02-17
> **nathangrubb said:**
> The thread title was hard to click on :/

It was also misleading. I thought this thread was going to be a discussion about...

---

### Post by RiceMonster on 2009-02-17
I just clicked this thread to test my mouse accuracy.

---

### Post by pol666 on 2009-02-17
Plese, change de title, btw, I have all beatles almbus in mp3 :P 

,.. I bough them.. obviusly he he he

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2009-02-17
> **pol666 said:**
> Plese, change de title

the title stays the same.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2009-02-17
there are too many beatles songs that hit the spot,  you can't pick just one.

---

### Post by saulgoode on 2009-02-17
..

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-17
The first Beatles album I bought was Sgt Pepper on vinyl. I bought the same day it was avialable in the stores, I paid something like $6.99 for it at A&B Sound (to bad its gone).

Jim

---

### Post by chucky chuckaluck on 2009-02-17
> **wolfen69 said:**
> your first Beatles album?  mine was Sgt. peppers.  \\:D/

the thread title misleads one into thinking it was the white album. anyway, my first was also sgt. peppers. got it for christmas when i was eleven. at the time, it was a revelation for me.

---

### Post by treesurf on 2009-02-17
> **chucky chuckaluck said:**
> the thread title misleads one into thinking it was the white album. anyway, my first was also sgt. peppers. got it for christmas when i was eleven. at the time, it was a revelation for me.


Same here, except it was for my birthday.  I spent all the money I could get my hands on to obtain the rest of their albums until I had them all.  After a few years of listening to Beatles endlessly I got bored with them.  Then when I was 22 or so I popped in the White Album again and it all sounded so different and even better than before.  Amazing music.

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2009-02-17
I bought the White Album once, years ago. On cassette tape.


.

---

### Post by adamlau on 2009-02-17
An official greatest hits compilation. It was a while ago. Good music. Not as good as old school rap, IMO :) .

---

### Post by jespdj on 2009-02-17
When I finished highschool I got a box with all the Beatles albums (on CD) as a present from my parents.

---

### Post by Tibuda on 2009-02-17
When I was born, my father already got White Album, Abbey Road and Let It Be.

---

