---
title: "6.06 vs 6.10"
date: 2007-01-31
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by john38242 on 2007-01-31
Which version do you like the best and why?

---

### Post by frrobert on 2007-01-31
I'm currently using 6.06.  I tried 6.10 but could not get the wireless to work so I went back to 6.06 otherwise I liked what I saw in 6.10.

---

### Post by renzokuken on 2007-01-31
to be honest, i dont really notice any difference.

I have Dapper on my main PC at home cos thats the one i need to be as stable as possible. Whereas i have Edgy on my laptop, which i like to just play around with.

I like the Edgy default grafix more and the boot time is much improved, and although I have never had any major issues with Edgy, Dapper is still mor stable IMO.

So i guess in conclusion, dont make me choose because i love both.

---

### Post by sweemeng on 2007-01-31
tested on ibm r51 laptop:
pros of 6.06:
- package package work out of the box. 

cons of 6.06:
- none really

pros of 6.10:
- good laptop integration
- faster boot time
- newer package
- finally hdaps driver works out of box

cons of 6.10:
- sometime sleep mode render computer unusable
- some package don't work well, need more work to get kxmame to work for example
- pain to upgrade

---

### Post by pay on 2007-01-31
The main difference is Xorg 7.1. If you enjoy all the fancy features of beryl and compiz, then Edgy is the choice to make.

---

### Post by prizrak on 2007-01-31
7.04 works better than both of them ;)

---

### Post by maniacmusician on 2007-01-31
6.10, better boot time, as people have said, better version of Xorg.

Third party programs not in the repos usually provide 6.10 packages rather than 6.06 ones.

---

