---
title: "... But my cynicism is just too overpowering..."
date: 2013-08-01
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by DeadlyOats on 2013-08-01
Did it have to be Ubuntu 1 for the login?  I mean, wasn't it so very convenient that in the course of restoring the forums, they got us to use Ubuntu 1 login and, perhaps, got us one step closer to becoming Ubuntu 1 customers, if we were not before?

This overpowering cynicism probably came from me questioning everything that's happened in computing over the years, starting with Microsoft's overt attempts to destroy everything around them in order to force us to be their locked in customers.  The incredible difficulty that has been part of installing Linux, or anything else not a Microsoft product, on new hardware with UEFI (a Microsoft product, I'm led to believe).  The difficulty to dual boot Linux, or any other OS, with Windows, with WinXP and before, and made nearly impossible starting with Win7 (or Vista?  I've never used Vista, so I don't know).

But this cynicism has gone on to cause me to question the motives of other companies, Google - a giant Linux advocate.  Intel, are they in cahoots with Microsoft? That Rapid Whatsit is a pain to work with Linux installs too.  It goes on and on.

It doesn't help that I've recently started playing EVE Online, and now I'm finding myself becoming even more cynical - to the point that when I found that the forums were back up, my first thought was not, "Yay!  The forums are back!"  It was, "Why Ubuntu 1 for a login?  Why not just improve the security of the original login process, improve security where they were breached, and put it all back.  I wonder if the reason it took so long was that they were getting everything set up for Ubuntu 1?  How convenient the "cyber attack" was for them...."

I had to shake my head to interrupt the conspiracies that were forming in my head, and remind myself that, "Hey!  Now I can look up that thread on how to dual boot Win7 and Ubuntu!"

Sigh....  It didn't used to be this way....

Am I the only one who thought this way?  Or have I just been dealing with Microsoft's antics for too long and playing EVE Online too much?

---

### Post by lukeiamyourfather on 2013-08-01
> **DeadlyOats said:**
> 
Am I the only one who thought this way?

Yes. :neutral:

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2013-08-01
It's kinda hard to use Ubuntu without picking up an Ubuntu One account. It's much more difficult than, say, not having a Launchpad account, which previously had a shared login option with the forums. I'd assume that the thinking is that if users already have an Ubuntu One account, it's going to be simpler to transfer it (and if not, yeah, it gets people that far in the door, but it's not as if you're putting up credit card information to get access to the forums.)

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2013-08-01
I doubt the attack was planned. Even for Canonical it would be a bit too far. But it was convenient for them and the switch to U1 login was obviously nothing but a marketing trick.

---

### Post by brandelvalico on 2013-08-01
Your not the only one. The thought crossed my mind also. The warning here during the attack suggested having seperate passwords for your online activities. Which I agree with. Now all my online Ubuntu activities only have one password. Due directly to this change. Its nothing I'm going to lose sleep over mind you. But just felt you should know your not the only one who asked the question. The next question though is did they fake the whole thing to get us to use ubuntu one? 


(For the Record this post is a bit of sarcastic homour or is it???)

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2013-08-01
> **prodigy_ said:**
> I doubt the attack was planned. Even for Canonical it would be a bit too far. But it was convenient for them and the switch to U1 login was obviously nothing but a marketing trick.

That axe should be ground down to the handle by now... :-s

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-08-01
The openid plugin has been mooted for yonks and has been in the pipeline for yonks too. 

[http://browse.feedreader.com/c/kyleabaker_com/181654166](http://browse.feedreader.com/c/kyleabaker_com/181654166)

It was even asked for as far back as 2007 [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=465661&highlight=openid](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=465661&highlight=openid)

Also see this from last year.

[http://www.jorgecastro.org/2012/07/31/ubuntu-forums-needs-single-sign-on-again/](http://www.jorgecastro.org/2012/07/31/ubuntu-forums-needs-single-sign-on-again/)

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-08-01
> **prodigy_ said:**
> I doubt the attack was planned. Even for Canonical it would be a bit too far. But it was convenient for them and the switch to U1 login was obviously nothing but a marketing trick.

If it is a marketing ploy it is a poor one.  I've not received any unwanted or unsolicited marketing materials, even though I have had an account for quite a while.

---

### Post by coldraven on 2013-08-01
I have had an Ubuntu One account for a while but it is seldom used. Like any other "cloud" storage the main problem is the upload speed. I suppose that if I generated lots of documents it would be handy but I cannot be bothered to watch an upload progress bar crawl across the screen to store some jpgs or music.
My router tells me that my download speed is 8128 kbps but the upload is only 448 kbps. 
Maybe in the future the speed will increase and I'll start to use it.

---

### Post by DeadlyOats on 2013-08-01
I guess I'm just jumping at shadows, then.  Perhaps from Canonical's point of view, they're making lemonade from lemons... (making the best of a bad situation).  You're right, my in-boxes aren't getting flooded with Ubuntu products and services offers.

For the record, I really am [happy and grateful]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2164531&page=2") they got the forums back up.  It's just that *that* question popped up into my mind and I had to voice it.

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-08-01
Jumping at shadows is one of my all time favourite blues track

---

### Post by Chris of Arabia on 2013-08-01
> **philinux said:**
> Jumping at shadows is one of my all time favourite blues track

Don't you just love Gary Moore's version?

---

### Post by Linuxratty on 2013-08-01
The thought crossed my mind as well. I really don't trust the cloud,so i have no plans to use U1 except as a log in.

---

### Post by mikodo on 2013-08-01
> **Copper Bezel said:**
> It's kinda hard to use Ubuntu without picking up an Ubuntu One account. It's much more difficult than, say, not having a Launchpad account, which previously had a shared login option with the forums. I'd assume that the thinking is that if users already have an Ubuntu One account, it's going to be simpler to transfer it (and if not, yeah, it gets people that far in the door, but it's not as if you're putting up credit card information to get access to the forums.)

I have read numerous posts of your's and have never disagreed. This time I don't follow. But, due to history, I'll go with ^^ what CB said, for most people. I have a launchpad account for questions and the odd bug report, but only briefly had, but never used an Ubuntu One account. Now, I must keep one, even if I don't use the service, which in itself, is not a bother to me.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2013-08-01
> **coldraven said:**
> I have had an Ubuntu One account for a while but it is seldom used. Like any other "cloud" storage the main problem is the upload speed. I suppose that if I generated lots of documents it would be handy but I cannot be bothered to watch an upload progress bar crawl across the screen to store some jpgs or music.
My router tells me that my download speed is 8128 kbps but the upload is only 448 kbps. 
Maybe in the future the speed will increase and I'll start to use it.
The latter part of this post would be useful as a separate thread elsewhere. But, at least for ADSL connections, upload is much slower than download (if I understand correctly).

Apropos nothing at all, I hope "The Cafe" is moved to Discourse ASAP. There, posts also get feedback in the form of little hearts. Awesome.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2013-08-01
I don't use Ubuntu One so I just made a new account. I don't think having a Ubu 1 account for the UF would make me start using it, I have no need for it, and if I eventually do want to use it I would definitely use a different account and a different email address (this one is just for online forums and such, nothing important)  Is it a way to advertise Ubu one for people don't know about it before? It is possible, but  it is not something sinister as far as I can see.

 Only complaint is that it is more cumbersome to login now. I mean, is it necessary to go to a page asking me am I sure that I want to log in instead of just logging me in?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2013-08-01
> **Copper Bezel said:**
> It's kinda hard to use Ubuntu without picking up an Ubuntu One account. It's much more difficult than, say, not having a Launchpad account, which previously had a shared login option with the forums. I'd assume that the thinking is that if users already have an Ubuntu One account, it's going to be simpler to transfer it (and if not, yeah, it gets people that far in the door, but it's not as if you're putting up credit card information to get access to the forums.)

Why not? I have a launchpad account for bug reports but I have no need for cloud storage or buying stuffs through Ubuntu so I never have a Ubuntu one account. I am sure I am not alone.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-08-02
> **DeadlyOats said:**
> they got us to use Ubuntu 1 login and, perhaps, got us one step closer to becoming Ubuntu 1 customers, For cryin' out loud! What is Ubuntu One, a black hole? Do you think you are going to fall in whether you want to or not? If you have no need for the service, as I don't, then just don't use the service. Was that so hard?

I'm always skeptical of those who expound loudly about how they don't like Ubuntu One, super-hero movies, Gentoo, chocolate, asparagus, left-liberal politics, German cars, etc. My suggestion is that if you don't like it, don't use it. Problem solved.

---

### Post by critin on 2013-08-02
> **DeadlyOats said:**
>   It's just that *that* question popped up into my mind and I had to voice it.

Now it's in my mind.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2013-08-02
Lay off the video games dude. 
I don't know many people who are more "conspiracy minded" than myself..
and even I'm shaking my head at you. lol
If someone who thinks we never stopped going back to the moon (me) is calling you bonkers.. you just may be bonkers, my friend. lol :P

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-08-03
Ubuntu one. Free. Free 5 gig storage. The end.

---

### Post by courseinmiracles2 on 2013-08-03
Yeah!! Lets protest the hell out it!! ....Wait...What... your already back to being happy!?! Man, you've got to be fast these days ; )

---

### Post by Elfy on 2013-08-04
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> Why not? I have a launchpad account for bug reports but I have no need for cloud storage or buying stuffs through Ubuntu so I never have a Ubuntu one account. I am sure I am not alone.

You do know that the launchpad account is tied up with ubuntu one?

Do you know that ubuntu one now isn't actually the cloud thing - which I've no interest in - but just a way to login to everything? 

Can I assume that you don't want your other account now?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2013-08-04
> **Elfy said:**
> You do know that the launchpad account is tied up with ubuntu one?

I remember reading something that said they just renamed the Ubuntu SSO thing to Ubuntu One as a branding thing. Can't find the article/page now, though.

---

### Post by critin on 2013-08-05
Open ID has been around a long, long time and a lot of people use it.  You can sign up to many by using facebook log in info, and it goes on and on.  I like it actually.  If Ubuntu one worked on other sites, I would register those too.
Of course the financial sites I keep separated anyway.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2013-08-05
> **DeadlyOats said:**
> Why Ubuntu 1 for a login?

It isn't Ubuntu One, it's your Ubuntu SSO. Single Sign On is used for several things, such as Launchpad (you have signed up to Launchpad and use it to report bigs, right?). 

The fact it's also used for U1 isn't really relevant, there's nothing stopping you from using your SSO for everything else and never touching U1.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-08-05
> **CharlesA said:**
> I remember reading something that said they just renamed the Ubuntu SSO thing to Ubuntu One as a branding thing. Can't find the article/page now, though.

You probably read something like this
[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2013/06/21/improving-web-services-for-ubuntu/](http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2013/06/21/improving-web-services-for-ubuntu/)

---

### Post by ukripper on 2013-08-05
IMO, one secure account is better

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2013-08-05
> **deadflowr said:**
> You probably read something like this
[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2013/06/21/improving-web-services-for-ubuntu/](http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2013/06/21/improving-web-services-for-ubuntu/)

That would be it. Thanks! :)

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-08-05
> **CharlesA said:**
> That would be it. Thanks! :)

My favorite part is that the fridge has over 1300 beans in the forum.:p

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2013-08-05
> **deadflowr said:**
> My favorite part is that the fridge has over 1300 beans in the forum.:p

What a spammer! :p

---

### Post by DeadlyOats on 2013-08-05
> **chili555 said:**
> For cryin' out loud! What is Ubuntu One, a black hole? Do you think you are going to fall in whether you want to or not? If you have no need for the service, as I don't, then just don't use the service. Was that so hard?

I'm always skeptical of those who expound loudly about how they don't like Ubuntu One, super-hero movies, Gentoo, chocolate, asparagus, left-liberal politics, German cars, etc. My suggestion is that if you don't like it, don't use it. Problem solved.

That's what Microsoft, Facebook, and Google say about their products...

> **Rasa1111 said:**
> ...  I don't know many people who are more "conspiracy minded" than myself...

Then you haven't played EVE Online.  LOL

> **Paqman said:**
> ...[SIZE=5](you have signed up to Launchpad and use it to report bigs, right?).[/SIZE]

[SIZE=4]*sheepishly guilty voice*[/SIZE]

:oops: [SIZE=1]no.[/SIZE]

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2013-08-05
> **CharlesA said:**
> What a spammer! :p
Yup! Generally posts the link to the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter after it's already been posted by the Princess ;)

---

### Post by Elfy on 2013-08-06
It's just not very original I guess ;)

---

### Post by user1397 on 2013-08-07
*This* is what you're cynical about?  Man, I've got big problems then... My cynicism is loads worse than yours, so be thankful :)

---

