---
title: "7.10 is awesome!"
date: 2007-10-21
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by -Ghost9- on 2007-10-21
I don't know if there is a feedback section, but I didn't see it. I just wanted to say that I think this version(7.10) rocks! I love the visual tweaks to it and the 3d window slide and everything. So very cool!

I can't wait for the day that I can move completely over to ubuntu!

---

### Post by PryGuy on 2007-10-22
Is the Compiz Fusion stable?

---

### Post by exile on 2007-10-22
So far I've tried it on 3 different spec'ed machines - 1 new laptop and 2 desktops, one of which is an older model 2005 Dell with an Intel graphics card. So far it works fine on all of them. The old dell one runs slow with all the eye candy turned on, but I just run it with shadows and transparency and it performs pretty well.

I've had one instability problem when trying to run AWM - it instantly kills X - this is on the older graphic card machine - the others all run fine.

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2007-10-22
Dude!

---

### Post by -Ghost9- on 2007-10-22
> **PryGuy said:**
> Is the Compiz Fusion stable?

So far it is for me. I have it on dell laptop that is probably 2-3 years old. I have all the effects turned on and it looks really sharp. I especially like the 3d window sliding. i keep playing with it. I do notice that the more windows that are open the slower it goes, but that's to be expected. My laptop doesn't even have a 3d card built into it i don't think.

---

### Post by Balazs_noob on 2007-10-22
i will join in :)

Ubuntu really rocks
:guitar:

i love that my printer works flawlessly ,
copizFusion works great without any problem,
tons of great software....

so keep up the good work Ubuntu devs 
:popcorn:

---

### Post by PartisanEntity on 2007-10-22
> **PryGuy said:**
> Is the Compiz Fusion stable?

It's stable for me, haven't had any issues yet, but then again I have it on medium mode and I installed 7.10 last night :)

---

### Post by Pierre Lourens on 2007-10-22
Ubuntu is great.  It feels good to completely run Gutsy on my Macbook.  I'm running Compiz with custom settings and AWN and it looks fantastic.  Never been happier. :)

---

### Post by Johnsie on 2007-10-22
It's definitely the best upgrade for some time. I've used Ubuntu since Breezy and was slightly disappointed with Edgy and Feisty. Gusty seems to have some good features when it comes to device management. Hopefully this will imrpove and lead to more drivers.

---

