---
title: "6.06 worst release ever"
date: 2006-07-02
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by marcele on 2006-07-02
--> START RANT

Well what can I say. I've previously experimented with ubuntu 5.10 and was surprised with its polish and hardware detection. (A great realease).

I spent a whole day trying to install 6.06 with absolutely no success.

For some reason the graphical installer would freeze when installing at 15% and give me a "file system not found" error (no it wasn't the cd .. it was borking with my drive .. and the drive is 100% good , as debian sarge runs great off it). From looking at the forums many other users are having the same problems. The solution was to download the alternate cd (or though I thought).

So I downloaded the alternate cd and installed it on a second computer to dual boot both winxp and ubuntu. The installer ran fine and it even detected that I had winxp installed on my other drive and asked if I wanted to install the grub boot loader. I said yes and guess what? After my machine rebooted.. no boot loader (goes directly to windows xp) !

Tried two seperate machines and still couldn't even get ubuntu installed.

(Also note that I've had ubuntu 5.10 - debian - suse and windows xp running happily on the same machines with absolutely no problems) 

The devs really blew this release I'm afraid... Hopefully a lesson was learned :)

-> END OF RANT :P

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2006-07-02
I find 6.06 a lot better than 5.10, it all depends on the hardware that is used.

---

### Post by Mr.X on 2006-07-02
[QUOTE=bruce89]I find 6.06 a lot better than 5.10, it all depends on the hardware that is used.[/QUOTE]

I used 5.10 ages ago (As in 6 months :P), and then now im using 6.06... Man this version has alot of small things that really give it a kick \\:D/
I'm probably going to stick with Ubuntu 6.06 now, though gotta fix firefox. :rolleyes:

---

### Post by diepruis on 2006-07-02
I have almost the exact same problem, except I'm using kubuntu's graphical installer. Will do some more poking around and see what I can come up with.

---

### Post by Johnsie on 2006-07-02
I'm finding 6.06  a little fast than breezy but a lot more buggier and unstable than breezy..


I also dont like that I have to click quit twice to log out.

I feel like 6.06 was on the right track but they just released it before it was working properly. I've found Breezy to install properly on some machines that Dapper won't and sometimes I'm tempted to go back to Breezy.

---

### Post by IYY on 2006-07-02
Faster and more stable on my system, but I've heard stories of problems.

---

### Post by BWF89 on 2006-07-02
I've been here longer than most (see join date) and I've never heard complaints about a release of Ubuntu like I have about 6.06. Never.

---

### Post by raublekick on 2006-07-03
[QUOTE=marcele]So I downloaded the alternate cd and installed it on a second computer to dual boot both winxp and ubuntu. The installer ran fine and it even detected that I had winxp installed on my other drive and asked if I wanted to install the grub boot loader. I said yes and guess what? After my machine rebooted.. no boot loader (goes directly to windows xp) ![/QUOTE]

You probably forgot to set a bootable flag on that partition or something when you edited the partition tables.

---

### Post by dickohead on 2006-07-03
Or you got a screwy disc, try downloading the ISO and take note of the MD5 sum, and once you have downloaded the disc run the md5 command on the iso file, making sure that the md5 sums are the same. Then you need to boot your pc from the CD and run the test on the disc to make sure all the packages are there (I forget what it's called) It's in the main menu.

This will then rule out any disc problems.

---

### Post by Iandefor on 2006-07-03
I'm wondering how you feel justified in judging an operating system you haven't even installed. If the installer's borked, that's one thing, but to call the entire operating system broken based on a single component sounds a little silly.

---

### Post by Compucore on 2006-07-03
Never really had that much of a problem over here with either one of them. I looked on dapper for my printer that was not available. I took a look in my other machine that was running breezy for the same printer. And just looked for the driver that the Apollo was using on Breezy. Looked back again on dapper and found the same driver that was being used. And boom fixed the problem with that. 

Worste case scenario just to a live update via synaptic package manager. maybe that would have helped you. 

Compucore

---

### Post by ericesque on 2006-07-03
Yeah. I had some issues with grub the other day.  Took me a few hours to sort out... but that's NOT Ubuntu.  

Dapper has been working beautifully for me.  The scripts people are writing like BUMPS (^thanks Iandefor), Automatix, and EasyUbuntu have been wonderful.  I can easily do this on my own with the add/remove programs or synaptic or apt-get, but the scripts let me walk away.

Have to agree with Dickohead.  The MD5 checksum is there for a reason.  We all like to skip that step because it takes an extra 5 min to get to installing, but 8 out of 10 times that I have similar issues, it was a bad ISO or a bad burn.  It's worth the 5 min each time to save the hours spent on multiple install attempts.

---

### Post by marcele on 2006-07-03
[QUOTE=Iandefor]I'm wondering how you feel justified in judging an operating system you haven't even installed. If the installer's borked, that's one thing, but to call the entire operating system broken based on a single component sounds a little silly.[/QUOTE]

Yes I do consider the installer part of the OS . It's hard to give praise for an OS that you can't even install. Well ubuntu 6.06 is being marketed as an "Enterprise OS" with LTS .. I honestly think that all that devel time that they spent on the new fancy graphical installer should have been put towards actually making the system stable. Don't they actually test their builds out ? Seems like they released it way too early (probably would have been better to push the release back a few months) . Just look at all the posts of people having trouble (and these aren't new linux users either ).. 

Anyway I don't want to start a flame war .. I'm just trying to give some feedback as to my experience .. well I guess that I have to wait for the next release :)

---

### Post by s|k on 2006-07-03
There's a place for testimonials.

---

### Post by Iandefor on 2006-07-03
[quote=marcele]Yes I do consider the installer part of the OS . It's hard to give praise for an OS that you can't even install. Well ubuntu 6.06 is being marketed as an "Enterprise OS" with LTS .. I honestly think that all that devel time that they spent on the new fancy graphical installer should have been put towards actually making the system stable. Don't they actually test their builds out ? Seems like they released it way too early (probably would have been better to push the release back a few months) . Just look at all the posts of people having trouble (and these aren't new linux users either ).. 

Anyway I don't want to start a flame war .. I'm just trying to give some feedback as to my experience .. well I guess that I have to wait for the next release :)[/quote] That's beside the point. You looked at one component of the OS and extrapolated from that a blanket statement regarding the whole OS. It would have been accurate to say "6.06 installer worst ever", but to call the entirety of the operating system "the worst ever" because the installer is problematic strikes me as a little unfair.

See ya round when Edgy hits, eh :)?

---

### Post by _simon_ on 2006-07-03
Did you edit the partition tables manually and did you tick the format box next to / ?

---

### Post by sophtpaw on 2006-07-03
why so many complaints about Dapper?
I've followed Ubuntu since Hoary and i've never come across so many complaints.
As the saying goes: "there's no smoke without fire" so i have to assume there is some truth to it. So, then the question is why?
I presumed the opposite would be true; that is with each new release the Linux os would be more stable, more functional, more polished....

Is it only a case of two steps forward and one step back. I'm sure its gotta all be heading in the right direction, or i hope so certainly :(

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2006-07-03
Also, a lot more people use 6.06 than used 5.10.  6.06 has been fine for me, and I think the reason there have been so many complaints is becuase there are a lot more people using it.  6.06 also looks a lot nicer by default.

I had a problem in 5.10, it was System Monitor would always show 100% CPU usage, which must have been a bug in that program.

---

### Post by maagimies on 2006-07-03
Dapper is a very good distro, faster then Breezy, and it made me use Gnome again because of that :)
Now the *only* part where I agree, is that the livecd is nice, handy, and quite stable....until you actually start doing something.
I like the text installer more, it works better :)
I'm a big fan of LVM, and apparently that ogg video of Ubuntu was more important then the support for more advanced features... Or did the devs simply forget?

---

### Post by sophtpaw on 2006-07-03
[QUOTE=maagimies]Dapper is a very good distro, faster then Breezy, and it made me use Gnome again because of that :)
Now the *only* part where I agree, is that the livecd is nice, handy, and quite stable....until you actually start doing something.
I like the text installer more, it works better :)
I'm a big fan of LVM, and apparently that ogg video of Ubuntu was more important then the support for more advanced features... Or did the devs simply forget?[/QUOTE]

I no longer feel confident about recommending it:oops: 
I don't want the anxiety of whether something will go wrong or not. For me i'm happy enough and will stick with it. I believe it will get better

---

### Post by givré on 2006-07-03
Don't trust the troll. 
See by yourself, install it to some friend to see how it goes and after you will be able to have your mind.

I rode a lot of things about dapper, lots are true but a lots are troll, it's like the other guy who said that dapper was slower than breezy... but didn't try further than  the live session. How can you say that a distro is slow if you don't install it.

---

### Post by halfvolle melk on 2006-07-03
I can only imagine the developers put blood, sweat and tears into it to make it best they knew how to. As it turns out it isn't for the better in all cases. But we can safely assume they did not intentionally break anything.

The lesson to be learned is that ranting about it will in no way whatsoever improve the situation. Fixing bugs or at least filing them just might.

Dapper not working out? Stick with Breezy for now.

---

### Post by Rackerz on 2006-07-03
[QUOTE=marcele]Yes I do consider the installer part of the OS . It's hard to give praise for an OS that you can't even install. Well ubuntu 6.06 is being marketed as an "Enterprise OS" with LTS .. I honestly think that all that devel time that they spent on the new fancy graphical installer should have been put towards actually making the system stable. Don't they actually test their builds out ? Seems like they released it way too early (probably would have been better to push the release back a few months) . Just look at all the posts of people having trouble (and these aren't new linux users either ).. 

Anyway I don't want to start a flame war .. I'm just trying to give some feedback as to my experience .. well I guess that I have to wait for the next release :)[/QUOTE]

Of course they test out their builds, The RC version of 6.06 had the installer problem your describing. Did the disc get sent to you, did you download the file from elsewhere?

---

### Post by Johnsie on 2006-07-03
I dont think calling people trolls solves anything. People have every right to express their bad experiences with Ubuntu. I've seen a lot of people get flammed for criticising Ubuntu but really we should be using those criticsims to our advantage and improving Ubuntu. We should be encouraging people to speak about their problems.

If the installer doesn't work on a lot of systems look for a way to make it better

If Ubuntu is unreliable on some machines try and find out why and fix it

From what I've seen Dapper seems to be a little more hardware dependent than Breezy.... meaning that it may run fine on some computers but may be a total nightmare on other computers. I don't see the point in flamming people because Ubuntu is compatible with your system and not theirs. Ubuntu dshould aim to work with most peoples system.

---

### Post by Aelfric5578 on 2006-07-03
I've been fortunate with Dapper--no problems except the ones I've caused when I don't knwowhat i'm doing.   

[QUOTE=dickohead]Or you got a screwy disc, try downloading the ISO and take note of the MD5 sum, and once you have downloaded the disc run the md5 command on the iso file, making sure that the md5 sums are the same. Then you need to boot your pc from the CD and run the test on the disc to make sure all the packages are there (I forget what it's called) It's in the main menu.

This will then rule out any disc problems.[/QUOTE]

I've never had any problems with ISOs I've burned in the past, but I'm curious.  How do you check the integrity of the file using md5 on Windows XP or on Ubuntu.

---

### Post by facefur on 2006-07-03
I, for one, have not yet made the switch from Breezy, largely based on the number of problem write-ups from people doing upgrades.  So, I will not actually comment on Dapper as release until I have it on the machine.

My experience with going from 5.04 to 5.10 was to read the comments, take notes, and avoid doing the upgrade process like the plague, opting for a complete scratch installation.  Since I saved my own stuff on separate partitions, it was fairly painless.  The switch from Hoary to Breezy was refreshing, indeed, hardware that was previously unsupported now worked "out of the box".  I'm hoping for similar improvements for Dapper, although a significant number of bad comments reflect an oversensitivity to hardware configurations.  That's not a good thing.

What I do find is that each new version has included more sophisticated software and broader hardware compatibility.  That makes for a more complex system, and complex systems usually have hidden interactions that are only discovered through trial and testing.

---

### Post by DmitriK on 2006-07-03
The reasons why I'm actually starting to use linux is because 6.06 installed without a problem and all hardware was detected, well most of it, enough to be usable where numerous of other distros including the older ones did not do the trick.

---

### Post by awakatanka on 2006-07-03
[QUOTE=halfvolle melk]I can only imagine the developers put blood, sweat and tears into it to make it best they knew how to. As it turns out it isn't for the better in all cases. But we can safely assume they did not intentionally break anything.

The lesson to be learned is that ranting about it will in no way whatsoever improve the situation. Fixing bugs or at least filing them just might.

Dapper not working out? Stick with Breezy for now.[/QUOTE]Funny thing  is that nobody is taking errors of MS they also put blood,sweat and tears into it. But alot of people burn it down without trying it our just because they want to rant about something.

If a product is bad it is bad and i think you may say it (if you pay for it our not ), but with respect.

---

### Post by halfvolle melk on 2006-07-03
[QUOTE=awakatanka]Funny thing  is that nobody is taking errors of MS they also put blood,sweat and tears into it. But a lot of people burn it down without trying it our just because they want to rant about something.[/quote]
Which is equally unfortunate and tiresome. I for one think that XP for instance is quite good once you know how to maintain it.

> If a product is bad it is bad and i think you may say it (if you pay for it our not ), but with respect.
Sure you can. A thousand times over if you want to. But to what end?

---

### Post by aeiah on 2006-07-03
[QUOTE=marcele]
The installer ran fine and it even detected that I had winxp installed on my **other** drive and asked if I wanted to install the grub boot loader. I said yes and guess what? After my machine rebooted.. no boot loader (goes directly to windows xp) !
[/QUOTE]

did you tell your bios which hdd to look at, which to boot from? if you installed on two physically separate drives (not partitions of the same hdd) then you'll need to tell it which one to look at, or it'll look at the one it always looks at and start the windows boot loader instead of grub.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-07-03
Can we retitle this thread something else? > New Desktop CD installer could use more polish might be more appropriate.

I've read a lot of threads here with people having troubles with Ubiquity or the integrated GParted, but I've read of no such problems with the Alternate CD. And once Dapper is up and running, it's fine.

New way of installing hasn't had all the kinks worked out of it yet? That's not surprising.

---

### Post by awakatanka on 2006-07-03
[QUOTE=aysiu]

New way of installing hasn't had all the kinks worked out of it yet? That's not surprising.[/QUOTE]
If it has so much issue's for lots of people it had to be hold back till it was working much better. Dapper is LTS and can't have a livecd installer that bugged pushed as main installer. 

But luckly i don't have issue's with it atm, i had it in beta and rc. I have other troubles ;)

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-07-03
[QUOTE=awakatanka]If it has so much issue's for lots of people it had to be hold back till it was working much better. Dapper is LTS and can't have a livecd installer that bugged pushed as main installer. 

But luckly i don't have issue's with it atm, i had it in beta and rc. I have other troubles ;)[/QUOTE]
I agree.

I was not in favor of pushing back Dapper's release date to June 1--not that my opinion really matters.

It would have been better to have released Dapper in April (as originally planned) with fewer features and then waited until October to release Edgy with more features that are polished.

As it is, the Desktop CD works most of the time but still has quite a few bugs in it, particularly when it comes to partitioning.

---

### Post by Mr. Picklesworth on 2006-07-03
Installer problem people: Try the non-graphical installer.
I believe it can be run via the same disk where you have a choice to install or skip the install CD altogether. (Wonderful feature, btw -- saved me a lot of time when I was getting Ubuntu sorted out).

---

### Post by KiwiNZ on 2006-07-03
I think I have to agree wth the thread title.I have used every release to date and well I have removed 6.06.
I feel it falls way short of what we have had in the past.Very dissapointing.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-07-03
[QUOTE=KiwiNZ]I think I have to agree wth the thread title.I have used every release to date and well I have removed 6.06.
I feel it falls way short of what we have had in the past.Very dissapointing.[/QUOTE] Mind if I ask on what specific points it failed for you, besides the graphical installer? I'm just curious, because you seem quite adamant about it being bad enough to actually remove.

Are you running Breezy, now, then?

---

### Post by manicka on 2006-07-03
[QUOTE=KiwiNZ]I think I have to agree wth the thread title.I have used every release to date and well I have removed 6.06.
I feel it falls way short of what we have had in the past.Very dissapointing.[/QUOTE]

I tend to agree. During developement Dapper was really slick, then became sluggish (for want of a better word) during the last month or so. This combined with the installer (desktop cd) debacle makes you worry about the long term damage that this release (LTS) may be doing to Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Mr. Picklesworth on 2006-07-03
Definietly could have used a less pressured release, I agree.
It had a rocky start for me until the problems I was having were solved. (And the only reason I don't have many problems is because I'm only using Ubuntu for a test server / alternative computer at the moment, since the other 3 users of the other computer are afraid of the word Linux and would panic at the sight of a boot menu.

The final final build should have had a lot more time for testing and I hope that future releases learn from the mistake. As I recall, rc1 and rc2 were up for a few hours before the final release and can't possibly have been expected to be actually tested by even a quarter of the beta testers.
I, for one, don't mind if it is released on a day other than the 1st of the month. In fact, I don't even mind a changed version number :P

Regarding desktop CD installer: The alternative is right there along with various other attractive options.
I bet that on some slower machines, the desktop CD is a bad idea; it runs really slowly on a 600mHz computer. (Also, it needs a message somewhere saying that it is NOT a demo of the final speed of Ubuntu).

---

