---
title: "14.17 Seconds ! Lucid Fastest Boot yet"
date: 2010-08-20
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by hal8000 on 2010-08-20
Just installed Lucid 10.04 on my new computer, first thing I did was install bootchart.

This is quite impressive getting a sub 20 second boot yet alone 14.17 seconds, and I haven't even tuned it yet.

What are we going to call the next release?
Usain Ubuntu Bolt :D


This system is using an Intel Core i5 750 Gigabyte Ga-P55A-UD3 and ATi
HD5770 card, (restricted drivers appeared also and installed no problem).
Although I have a Western Digital Caviar SATA II drive, its a little slow

anc@orac:~$ sudo hdparm -tT /dev/sda

/dev/sda:
 Timing cached reads:   17766 MB in  2.00 seconds = 8894.00 MB/sec
 Timing buffered disk reads:  264 MB in  3.01 seconds =  87.83 MB/sec

 I have a friend whose Seagate drive measures 125MB/sec on throughput,
and he has built the same computer, so he must be possibly a second quicker than my bootchart.

---

### Post by chris200x9 on 2010-08-20
Impressive! I tried got 19 am depressed :(

---

### Post by hal8000 on 2010-08-20
19 seconds is not bad. On same hardware Windows flagship windows 7 takes about 21 seconds.
I just checked now and its 12.42seconds! still no tuning yet.

Depending on your hardware and software you may get an improvement by removing certain services.
In gnome, system, preferences start-up apps, try removing
bluetooth, (if you dont need it) visual preferences (only needed if you are visually impaired, power management if you are a desktop and dont suspend etc.

This may help your boot time. Actually un-installing bootchart will help too, but you need bootchart so you can see the improvement.

---

### Post by Austin25 on 2010-08-20
I had a friend who said he got around 10 seconds, but I could not confirm it. He also said he could get about 7 by disabling some stuff.

I timed it with a stopwatch a while ago, and I got 42 seconds.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2010-08-20
I wonder how fast Ubuntu could load on a SSD... anyone want to fund my research? ;)

---

### Post by hal8000 on 2010-08-20
My old Pentium 4 (single core 2.8GHz) and SATA 1 drive managed about 25 seconds, after disabling unwanted services both in gnome and the runlevel 2.


The tool to tune t#run level is chkconfig
so after sudo apt-get install chkconfig


chkconfig -l

will display all services in all runlevels. I prefer the firewall in my router so will disable apparmor etc

A little digging revealed a very nice post on running services as well:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=89491](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=89491)

---

### Post by Zorgoth on 2010-08-20
You could buy a 64 GB SSD Kingston/SSDnow to try it out - I think you can get one for $100.  If I had a desktop to build I would probably put my base system on something like that and have an extra HD for storage.

---

### Post by XubuRoxMySox on 2010-08-20
Super-mega-ultra-lightning-fast boot-up doesn't matter to alot of people though. As long as I have a ready desktop in the time it takes to go fetch a Mountain Dew from the fridge and get back to my room after turning the 'puter on, lol. 

And it seems like there's a price being paid for all that super-mega-ultra-lightning-fast speed, too. Plymouth (the big reason for all that boot speed) is kinda buggy for alot of people. And you can't remove it! Just try "Mark for Removal" in Synaptic and look at the lonnnnnng list of "dependencies" to be removed along with it - half the system!! Yikes!

I dunno how Plymouth got so many tentacles so deeply into the OS that half of the system is dependent on it, but omygosh...

It's not noticeably faster than Karmic was (Xubuntu I mean, on an old hand-me-down Dell) anyway. But it seems like an obsession with boot speed gave us this monster that intrudes on the whole rest of the system.

-Robin

---

### Post by Duncan J Murray on 2010-08-20
Hmmm 55.57 secs

Which for me, is awesome, as this is faster than Win XP ever was, even on a fresh install, and a million times faster than Win XP would have been had I installed Win XP in April!

Specs: Pentium-M 1.3Ghz, 1.25Gb RAM, 5400RPM 8Mb buffer HD.

Duncan.

---

