---
title: "U.S. Congressman Proposes a Bill That Would Makes ISPs Utilities"
date: 2009-06-18
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Grant A. on 2009-06-18
[http://news.slashdot.org/story/09/06/18/1521237/Bill-Ready-To-Ban-ISP-Caps-In-the-US?art_pos=8]("http://news.slashdot.org/story/09/06/18/1521237/Bill-Ready-To-Ban-ISP-Caps-In-the-US?art_pos=8")

I like this guy. :)

---

### Post by MaxIBoy on 2009-06-18
I sure hope this happens.

---

### Post by drawkcab on 2009-06-18
Amen.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2009-06-18
agreed. I really hope the FCC will grow some, regarding consumer protection of Internet services. the bandwidth caps are truly evil (bandwidth is not a consumable, its the rate and the time that matters, not the amount), and the supposed "solution to a problem that does not exist" (network neutrality) now has a real problem, and folks are starting to notice.

---

### Post by Twitch6000 on 2009-06-18
Now this would be nice if it happens :D.

---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2009-06-18
This is very exciting news. Thanks!

---

### Post by Grant A. on 2009-06-18
I just realized something, is this a problem in the guise of a blessing? Because think of our other utilities: electricity, water, et cetera. Don't we pay for all of those per usage?

---

### Post by Frak on 2009-06-18
f1 f1 f1 f1 f1 f1 f1 f1 f1 f1 f1 f1 f1 f1 f1 f1

---

### Post by doas777 on 2009-06-18
> **Grant A. said:**
> I just realized something, is this a problem in the guise of a blessing? Because think of our other utilities: electricity, water, et cetera. Don't we pay for all of those per usage?

yes, this is true, but in most areas in the us, cable and internet are considered luxury, and thus not regulated the way a utility is. I just read the bill and it does not really say anything except giving the FTC the capability to asses and (dis)approve usage based plans, in the same way most states regulate gas and electric rates. 

one of the important distinctions with bandwidth, is that it is not a commodity. you can sell it over and over again. what you are really buying is time, not throughput.  if i use the internet only at a reasonable speed and at times of low usage (3am for instance) the providor will incur almost no cost from my activities. it doesn't matter how much i pull through the tubes over a month, it matters how much I use during peak hours. 

now if they do not have enough bandwidth, when everyone is using it, do they really have the ability to sell me a 15mbps package? it's like overbooking an airplane. they wrote the contracts, but they don't have the hardware to back it up, so they want us to put monetary value on every web transaction, so we will use it more frugally. they want us to use less but pay the same price (or in the case of TW specifically, way more).

---

### Post by XubuRoxMySox on 2009-06-18
So now government will regulate internet usage? I'm not so sure that the federal government should have even more regulatory powers, but I may have just overstepped over the "no politics" rule by saying so. I hope not.

---

### Post by toupeiro on 2009-06-18
I'm not completely sure how I feel about this.  The way bandwidth is regulated now is not standard, and I am not saying its good either way (Capped, but unmetered, or capped and metered), but uncapped and metered could suck even worse.  It all depends on what that magic "rate" number ends up being.  For the poor souls who stream content and are metered, who cares about their cap.  You rarely hear people streaming with a 5-7Mbit cap complain about bandwitdh.  So, uncapping it just enables more I/O at X dollar amount.  

I think a fair rate would be 9.95/month flat for equipment maintenance.  If you are capping my bandwitdh or doing ANY QoS, then $1 per GB would be fine.  If you are uncapping me, than I think it reasonable to be more than that, say $3per GB, because it increases the chances of saturation on a particular network segment, and it would cost the ISP more money to upgrade it.  But, if you supply DS3, I want DS3 potential.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2009-06-18
> **dixiedancer said:**
> So now government will regulate internet usage? I'm not so sure that the federal government should have even more regulatory powers, but I may have just overstepped over the "no politics" rule by saying so. I hope not.

it does not regulate anything except that usage based billing packages are now legally constrained to be "fair and conscionable" and be directly tied to the associated costs of transmitting information.  Nothing about the Internet itself is anymore regulated in the us than it ever was (which may be more than you realize these days). the intent is strictly focused on consumer protection.

[ bill[PDF]]("http://massa.house.gov/uploads/BroadbandInternetFairnessAct.pdf")

---

### Post by arcdrag on 2009-06-19
I think one of the goals behind this is to allow rural towns to set up their own high speed networks.  Right now, ISPs won't bother laying fiber to many rural areas because its not worth the cost.  However, even though rural towns may have the resources to do it themselves, they're not allowed to because that would be stepping into the private sector's realm.  

Not only that, but in rural areas there is generally only one ISP to choose from and since that ISP is not regulated by the government, they can charge whatever they want.  That leads to towns like mine charging over $100/mo for a mediocre internet connection and telephone service.

---

### Post by Grant A. on 2009-06-19
> **arcdrag said:**
> Not only that, but in rural areas there is generally only one ISP to choose from and since that ISP is not regulated by the government, they can charge whatever they want.  That leads to towns like mine charging over $100/mo for a mediocre internet connection and telephone service.

You can actually report that to the FTC as price gouging, and they'll pursue it, as it is a major offense.

---

### Post by Frak on 2009-06-19
> **Grant A. said:**
> You can actually report that to the FTC as price gouging, and they'll pursue it, as it is a major offense.
We have an ISP where I live called Wilnet that charges $110 for 2Mb/s down, 1Mb/s up and phone with no long distance.

Called the FCC. They're allowed as a monopoly because of rural conditions. That was the answer I recieved.

---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2009-06-19
I'm not quite sure what to make of it, but one bright and sunny way of reading it is as an amendment to the Telecom Act of '96, which effectively made community LANs (wifi and otherwise) illegal. Any city, town or neighborhood that wanted to set one up had to ask Verizon and AT&T permission first, and only if they refused to do it could the town do it themselves. This bill would seem to set things right, allowing communities to run broadband just like water and electric.

As for rates, it's not entirely inconceivable that it could be free. Not completely free, of course, but free for the general populace. Most of the community wifi system that were set up pre-96 (like Philly's and Champagne IL's) were funded completely by the local area Chambers of Commerce. They assumed that the minimal costs of covering the whole city would be more than offset by cost reductions for each and every business in town (except for Verizon, of course) as well as boosts in productivity. It also made the town that much more attractive to its citizenry and visitors.

It's not a slam-dunk, but it could happen. Also, I dare say that the public utilities are far and away the least "oppressive" elements of government. Meter Maids rank higher. It doesn't smell like "Big Government" to me; it smells like community activism.

---

