---
title: "10.04 LTS Slow Download? TORRENT IT!!!"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by UnknownFear on 2010-04-29
If you are having slow speeds when downloading the 10.04 .iso, I STRONGLY recommend you download a torrent for it. It is MUCH faster!!!

[Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Torrent Mirrors]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#bt")

---

### Post by kaldor on 2010-04-29
> **UnknownFear said:**
> If you are having slow speeds when downloading the 10.04 .iso, I STRONGLY recommend you download a torrent for it. It is MUCH faster!!!

[Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Torrent Mirrors]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#bt")

I've been seeding it for about an hour. :)

---

### Post by GSF1200S on 2010-04-29
Ive been seeding since about 10 minutes after release (all 4 main ubuntu releases i386, amd64, alt. cd of both).

I have a question though.. has anyone experienced crappy upload with the Desktop AMD64 version? I have 22 peers, and no peers in queue. Ive double checked by re-downloading the torrent from ubuntu home, and then rechecking with deluge, but no joy..

---

### Post by MichealH on 2010-04-29
If I was downloading In chrome it would be ready in around 2 hours I am currently in utorrunt and I am 51 mins from seeding (Thanks all 4118 of you who downloaded.)

---

### Post by EarthMind on 2010-04-29
I guess I'll let my server seed it.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-04-29
> **GSF1200S said:**
> Ive been seeding since about 10 minutes after release (all 4 main ubuntu releases i386, amd64, alt. cd of both).

I have a question though.. has anyone experienced crappy upload with the Desktop AMD64 version? I have 22 peers, and no peers in queue. Ive double checked by re-downloading the torrent from ubuntu home, and then rechecking with deluge, but no joy..

Similar problem. But also affects my downloading.

I have i386 done, and seeding to 10 peers, but none are uploading from me.

Downloading 64bit and only getting 1/2 my normal download speeds. Seems like a lot of seeders aren't seeding, but I think isn't their fault.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-04-29
> **andrewabc said:**
> Similar problem. But also affects my downloading.

I have i386 done, and seeding to 10 peers, but none are uploading from me.

Downloading 64bit and only getting 1/2 my normal download speeds. Seems like a lot of seeders aren't seeding, but I think isn't their fault.
Im also having some weird stuff goin on.
Ive only got 1,000 users that im uploading ubuntu to, in total. 600 are getting i386, and 400 are getting amd64.

There should be a LOT more connections than 1000, as this is on a premium internap bandwidth conenction.

---

### Post by Dayofswords on 2010-04-29
i have the dl/up speed to seed all of them, sadly, i dont have the disk space to download them all, only i386 for me

i'll seed when i get home

---

### Post by chessnerd on 2010-04-29
Wow. You mention it now and it seems so obvious! :shock: 

I was actually going to try to download on my spare desktop and let it sit there for HOURS working at 10 KB/s or however slow it was going to be. Now it's torrenting at over 150 KB/s. Much better. 

This may be a stupid question, but a quick Google search didn't bring any immediate answers and I'm sure you guys could tell me: Is there a way to seed Ubuntu from multiple computers without downloading it to all of them? 

I'd like to set up my two desktops (and maybe my laptop) so they can each seed it for the rest of the day but I don't want to have to spend another 40 minutes downloading it again.

EDIT: Speed is now above 300 KB/s. Thank you seeders.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-04-29
> **chessnerd said:**
> Wow. You mention it now and it seems so obvious! :shock: 

I was actually going to try to download on my spare desktop and let it sit there for HOURS working at 10 KB/s or however slow it was going to be. Now it's torrenting at over 150 KB/s. Much better. 

This may be a stupid question, but a quick Google search didn't bring any immediate answers and I'm sure you guys could tell me: Is there a way to seed Ubuntu from multiple computers without downloading it to all of them? 

I'd like to set up my two desktops (and maybe my laptop) so they can each seed it for the rest of the day but I don't want to have to spend another 40 minutes downloading it again.

EDIT: Speed is now above 300 KB/s. Thank you seeders.

Yes that is possible. copy/paste the .iso to your various computers, then make sure torrent programs are set to download torrent to where you have .iso set. Download .torrent file and it should check the file and then seed.

Although if your desktops/laptop are all on the same network, I don't see how seeding from 3 devices will benefit any.

---

### Post by EarthMind on 2010-04-29
My server can't even download ubuntu desktop amd64 at a speed over 50KB/s, while the amd64 server and desktop x86 editions only took a few minutes to download... :confused:

I've set my upload speed to 1500KB/s with 15 slots for each torrent so it should help a bit.

Oops, forgot to seed Kubuntu.

---

### Post by chessnerd on 2010-04-29
> **andrewabc said:**
> Yes that is possible. copy/paste the .iso to your various computers, then make sure torrent programs are set to download torrent to where you have .iso set. Download .torrent file and it should check the file and then seed.

Alright, I'll do just that. The download for the i386 LiveCD will be done in 20 minutes. That is likely the most popular. If I were to choose a second one to seed, which should it be, the 64-bit Live or the 32-bit Alternative? (I don't want to do all 4, all that downloading/uploading would probably ruin my mother/sisters Facebook gaming...)

---

### Post by Bölvaður on 2010-04-29
I will download and seed it tonight and keep seeding all available hours.

---

### Post by gemmakaru on 2010-04-29
I just downloaded the torrent and it's now downloading, yay.  Do I need to do anything special to seed it or is it automatic?

---

### Post by Bölvaður on 2010-04-29
> **gemmakaru said:**
> I just downloaded the torrent and it's now downloading, yay.  Do I need to do anything special to seed it or is it automatic?
no, you just have to leave it open

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-04-29
> **gemmakaru said:**
> I just downloaded the torrent and it's now downloading, yay.  Do I need to do anything special to seed it or is it automatic?

automatic unless you've specified otherwise in the settings.

---

### Post by Danimoth on 2010-04-29
Everything already on my file server and seeding :).
Lots of demand too :).

---

### Post by GSF1200S on 2010-04-29
> **Danimoth said:**
> Everything already on my file server and seeding :).
Lots of demand too :).

Whered you get the torrent for the netbook edition? Really wanting to download, seed, and install on the netbook but all I see under the bit torrent section is all the other versions..

Eh, Ill find one somewhere- this is actually a version I can install without stopping my seed..

---

### Post by Hman242 on 2010-04-29
Only took 39 minutes, thank for all the seeded. I will do the same.

---

### Post by cj.surrusco on 2010-04-29
is it possible to do an upgrade with the .iso?

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-04-29
> **GSF1200S said:**
> Whered you get the torrent for the netbook edition? Really wanting to download, seed, and install on the netbook but all I see under the bit torrent section is all the other versions..

Eh, Ill find one somewhere- this is actually a version I can install without stopping my seed..

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/)

---

### Post by Hman242 on 2010-04-29
> **cj.surrusco said:**
> is it possible to do an upgrade with the .iso?
Try taking a look at [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=186360").

---

### Post by Berk on 2010-04-29
I'm torrenting, but it's taken a few hours to get over about 10KB/s.... Up to a decent speed at last though, and will seed for as long as I can.

---

### Post by kavon89 on 2010-04-29
.

---

### Post by Bezmotivnik on 2010-04-29
Where are the md5sums for these .iso files?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Hman242 on 2010-04-29
> **Bezmotivnik said:**
> Where are the md5sums for these .iso files?

Thanks!
[Right here]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/MD5SUMS").

---

### Post by aklo on 2010-04-29
This is sooo exciting. I've heard of it many times but i never tried a beta of it...now it is finally out !!! I can't wait to install.

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-04-29
> **Bezmotivnik said:**
> Where are the md5sums for these .iso files?

Thanks!
a54366aa72d6b576ee8fc0215f8a13b9 *ubuntu-10.04-alternate-amd64.iso
5b2dadacfd692b4f2d5c7cf034539262 *ubuntu-10.04-alternate-i386.iso
3e0f72becd63cad79bf784ac2b34b448 *ubuntu-10.04-desktop-amd64.iso
d044a2a0c8103fc3e5b7e18b0f7de1c8 *ubuntu-10.04-desktop-i386.iso
0b0e0d36050d9980ec995262eb9f2e6b *ubuntu-10.04-netbook-armel+dove.img
9e0d6ac7b69bb7912d49369a6807e39d *ubuntu-10.04-netbook-armel+imx51.img
712277c7868ab374c4d3c73cff1d95cb *ubuntu-10.04-netbook-i386.iso
8ee25c78f4c66610b6872a05ee9ad81b *ubuntu-10.04-server-amd64.iso
15342636441181f7a19c65984b44e24c *ubuntu-10.04-server-i386.iso
e81f931b1de017520f6d4aa4f78c5c8b *wubi.exe

---

### Post by Chronon on 2010-04-29
Definitely the way to go.  I got about 1.4 MiB/s download speeds when I torrented earlier.  I have been seeding for quite a few hours now.  :)

I'll probably let it seed a bit more and do the install later tonight.

---

### Post by Minipalmer on 2010-04-30
Thanks guys, I just torrented it and it only took about 10 minutes. Now I'm seeding to return the favor :)

---

### Post by Roasted on 2010-04-30
Been uploading both 32 and 64 bit since it became available today. I'm going to let my system run overnight and continually seed. However, I always unplug my systems when vacation hits and I'm leaving promptly at 8 am tomorrow. :guitar:

---

### Post by EarthMind on 2010-05-02
Since I moved from torrentflux to Transmission 1.93 today my torrents have been seeding at full speed. I'll have to keep a close eye so that I won't reach my 3TB bandwidth limit :P

---

### Post by Phrea on 2010-05-02
Using Transmission 1.75 or so, and have had the 4 most popular versions open since the very beginning, but I've only uploaded about 60GB so far... :|
I'm on a 60/6 connection [without any restrictions], so it's more than capable of handling large amounts of data traffic.

---

### Post by cj.surrusco on 2010-05-02
> **Hman242 said:**
> Try taking a look at [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=186360").

Thanks, Hman

---

