---
title: "10.04.3 LTS- Anyone using it?"
date: 2011-07-23
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-07-23
With my 11.04 system's wireless breaking just yesterday (from an update), I found out about the new LTS update. I think Distrowatch said something about it having updated applications, but didn't go into detail. Has anyone used the .3 yet? How different is it from the old release? What do you think of it?

I'm burning the disc right now, and I look forward to using it.

---

### Post by Famicube64 on 2011-07-23
It's the same thing as any 10.04 fully updated. Actually, it's probably out of date already.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-07-23
*raises hand*

I didn't even know I got bumped up to 10.04.3 from 10.04.2. O_o

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-07-23
No. Cutting edge always works great for me, so why would I use an LTS? That being said, go for it if it moves you.

---

### Post by Dave_L on 2011-07-23
I noticed that the version number got bumped:

```
$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 10.04.3 LTS
Release:	10.04
Codename:	lucid
```

I thought the "point" releases occurred every six months. So shouldn't this release happen in October, three months from now?

---

### Post by JP121 on 2011-07-23
> **CharlesA said:**
> *raises hand*

I didn't even know I got bumped up to 10.04.3 from 10.04.2. O_o

I wonder what package bumped it up.  I haven't updated to the latest kernel yet, so I didn't think my install would "increment".

---

### Post by aaaantoine on 2011-07-23
My aunt and my mother-in-law both use it.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-07-23
> **JP121 said:**
> I wonder what package bumped it up.  I haven't updated to the latest kernel yet, so I didn't think my install would "increment".

I bumped up to kernel 2.6.32-33-server 8 days ago, not sure what caused the change to .3 tho.

---

### Post by Dave_L on 2011-07-23
> **JP121 said:**
> I wonder what package bumped it up.  I haven't updated to the latest kernel yet, so I didn't think my install would "increment".

Apparently it was this one, which upgraded on July 18:

base-files (version 5.0.0ubuntu20.10.04.3) will be upgraded to version 5.0.0ubuntu20.10.04.4

That package includes /etc/lsb-release:

```
$ cat /etc/lsb-release
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=10.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=lucid
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 10.04.3 LTS"
```

---

### Post by XubuRoxMySox on 2011-07-23
**[COLOR="Purple"]*raising hand*[/COLOR]** I'm using it too! Xubuntu, and I always stay with the LTS releases. Just had to fix a major breakage though, when I added an unofficial PPA to try out Xfce 4.8 on Lucid. Big fail, lol. Shoulda known better than to mix an LTS with some unofficial repo.

-Robin

---

### Post by Dave_L on 2011-07-23
> **Dave_L said:**
> I thought the "point" releases occurred every six months. So shouldn't this release happen in October, three months from now?

I found the explanation:

> We also committed, for the first time, to a regular set of point releases for 8.04 LTS. These will start three months after the LTS, and be repeated every six months until the next LTS is out. These point releases will include support for new hardware as well as rolling up all the updates published in that series to date. So a fresh install of a point release will work on newer hardware and will also not require a big download of additional updates.

The Art of Release
Monday, May 12th, 2008 
[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/146](http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/146)

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-07-23
I tried it, and there wasn't really anything blinding. Mostly "same old."

Still, this update probably fixed security and hardware issues, so it's probably worth upgrading to.

---

### Post by Dr. C on 2011-07-23
Yes. I have a fully patched Ubuntu 10.04 LTS release which at this point is 10.04.3 LTS. If one wants stability and bug fixes as opposed to the latest cutting edge with Ubuntu then this is the way to go. 

```
$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 10.04.3 LTS
Release:	10.04
Codename:	lucid

```

---

### Post by Brushstroke on 2011-07-25
Yep, I'm using it and it runs beautifully. I just use PPAs for my programs to keep them updated.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-07-26
I use the server version, I just updated to 10.04.3. For my needs, Lucid works great, and there aren't any surprise updates.

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-07-26
I am using 10.04 on most of my machines now. I think I have only one using 10.10. I have PPAs installed for things such as Firefox, Thunderbird and Shotwell, so that I can have the latest functioning software and the most stable kernel support. I also do not want to upgrade my system every 6 months just to set everything up again and again.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2011-07-26
I am using both the desktop and the server version, fully upgraded. Both are very stable and reliable, never had a problem with them.

---

### Post by Hardy Severit on 2011-07-26
Hi.
I reverted to 10.04.3 last week after struggling succeslessly for 2 weeks with 11.04's flaws and bugs.
In regards of stability , 10.04.3 is rock solid, it runs fast and reliable (no crashes or permanent desktop manager restarts like in 11.04) and it is even supported longer than 11.04 or 11.10 will ever be supported. 
In 2013, I will see what to do, I hope the GUI designers will regain sanity until then and some things like KDE5 or XFCE 5 will be my new DE of choice, as I am not willing to use these dumbed down blingy Gnome 3 Shell or Unity touchscreen/mobilephone GUIs, if not, I'll install 10.04 Server with Gnome 2 and will have support until 2015. 
If I wanted a mobilephone/tablet DE, i'd go and buy such a device,both,  Gnome 3 and Unity have nothng to do on a productivity desktop computer!
H.

---

### Post by Malta paul on 2011-07-26
Just for info;
I am using 10.04.3 LTS
Kernel 3.0.0-03
Nvidia driver 275.21
LibreOffice 3.4.2
And it is stable and everything works great..!

---

### Post by linux phreak on 2011-07-26
I am using the ubuntu 10.04.3 LTS and i love it for it's stability and it works great on my underpowered PC.I think i will stick with it till 2013.I love gnome 2 and i am sad to hear that it won't be in the next release.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-07-26
> **aaaantoine said:**
> My aunt and my mother-in-law both use it.
I have a few family members still on Ubuntu 10.04 though I am in the process of moving them to Debian. I might wait a bit until Lucid almost goes end of life though.

---

### Post by XubuRoxMySox on 2011-07-26
> **NightwishFan said:**
> I have a few family members still on Ubuntu 10.04 though I am in the process of moving them to Debian.

*You* are moving them? I take it that they are little kids, then. Or non-technically-inclined seniors, or folks who just can't be bothered with learning about Linux, and you're providing support for them all.

I couldn't manage to support all the families I've introduced to Linux now. **I need for them to learn** enough to fix minor issues and whatnot, which is another reason I choose Xubuntu LTS editions for introducing  new users to Linux. I think it's a heckuvalot easier to learn than most other distros.

But if you can teach them Debian, that'd be awesome! I'd love to attend those classes myself, lol, since I totally failed at Debian and came running home to Xubu! :)

-Robin

---

### Post by malspa on 2011-07-26
Still using 10.04 -- fully updated to 10.04.3, of course. Although I do have a Natty installation on another machine.

---

### Post by ikt on 2011-07-26
No surprises are good surprises when it comes to my server.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-07-26
> **dixiedancer said:**
> *You* are moving them? I take it that they are little kids, then. Or non-technically-inclined seniors, or folks who just can't be bothered with learning about Linux, and you're providing support for them all.

A few of my family members like to use computers but also refuse to want to understand them. I of course would offer my help to them if they used Windows but I would not spend unpaid hours fixing broken systems so I set them up with the Ubuntu LTS as a dual boot and let them choose which one they use. If they break Windows they can still boot Ubuntu (or Debian or whatever I have them use).

My family always says they are not good with computers and yet they are in the 1%? of people in the world that are experienced Desktop Linux users. :)

> 
But if you can teach them Debian, that'd be awesome! I'd love to attend those classes myself, lol, since I totally failed at Debian and came running home to Xubu! :)

I never really saw how it was so much different than Ubuntu. You just need to apt-get what you want and you end up with the same results. Well similar or I would just use Ubuntu. Gnome desktop using 60mb of RAM is pretty nice. ;)

[[IMG]http://img195.imageshack.us/img195/5730/lowmemgnome.th.png[/IMG]](http://imageshack.us/photo/my-images/195/lowmemgnome.png/)

Uploaded with [ImageShack.us](http://imageshack.us)

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-07-27
> **NightwishFan said:**
> 

I never really saw how it was so much different than Ubuntu.

Yeah, same here. Just add the multimedia repo, and use synaptic or apt-get to install stuff. Pretty much the same as ubuntu. It takes a *little* more thought, but not much. I don't know why some people think debian is hard. If you can install ubuntu without much effort, you *should* be able to install debian.

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-07-27
I failed at Debian on my last try as well. That has been a while ago. Too happy with Ubuntu to leave.

---

### Post by XubuRoxMySox on 2011-07-27
> **uRock said:**
> I failed at Debian on my last try as well. That has been a while ago. Too happy with Ubuntu to leave.

Debian doesn't have awesome forums like this one! :D

Okay, so I *should* be able to install and configure Debian since I can do it with Xubuntu. I've successfuly *installed* Debian, but getting it to actually work on my hardware was a major pain, and getting it all set up with the apps and whatnots I like took alot of work! Xubu is almost perfect just the way it ships, so I can do in minutes using Xubu what took me months to do in Debian.

**[COLOR="Purple"]I'm so tired of hearing that I must be stupid[/COLOR]** because I found Debian to be so difficult and problematic, yet effortlessly install Ubu or Xubu in mere minutes. There *is* a difference!

Besides, the people in Debian forums don't like kids. This community has lotsa kids - and lots more very wise and kind grownups who not only put up with us, but really help us learn and accomplish stuff.

A Xubu fan and proud Ubu community member,
[FONT="Comic Sans MS"]Robin[/FONT]

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-07-27
No one is saying you are not intelligent. As I do not own your hardware I am unable to speak for your experience. I am glad Xubuntu works for you.

As for the Debian community is made up mostly of mailing lists and IRC. The forums are unofficial.

---

### Post by conmat on 2011-07-27
10.04.03 64-bit
Lenovo T400
8GB RAM
ATI video card

Everything works pretty much O.K.

Problems are:  Can not switch between integrated video and ATI card without reboot. Can not get lightspark to work (so much for LTS).

---

### Post by malspa on 2011-07-27
> **NightwishFan said:**
> As for the Debian community is made up mostly of mailing lists and IRC. The forums are unofficial.

That the Debian forums are unofficial is something I either didn't realize or knew and forgot. Unfortunately, the fact that they aren't official isn't spelled out at [Debian's support page]("http://www.debian.org/support") (unless I missed something), where it says:

> debianHELP and Debian User Forums are web portals on which you can discuss Debian-related topics, submit questions about Debian, and have them answered by other users.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-07-27
> **dixiedancer said:**
> 

**[COLOR="Purple"]I'm so tired of hearing that I must be stupid[/COLOR]** because I found Debian to be so difficult and problematic

Who said you were stupid?

---

### Post by Primefalcon on 2011-07-27
Yeah on a netbook and 1 desktop. I have 10.10 on the other desktop

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-07-27
> **malspa said:**
> That the Debian forums are unofficial is something I either didn't realize or knew and forgot. Unfortunately, the fact that they aren't official isn't spelled out at [Debian's support page]("http://www.debian.org/support") (unless I missed something), where it says:
Granted they do not really 'have to be official'. But they are not moderated by the Debian project nor follow any guidelines set by it. (Which would be really good if they did). For more difficult problems I like to ask on the mailing lists or unix stack exchange.

---

### Post by kvv_1986 on 2011-07-27
On my desktop, running 10.04 with Linux 2.6.38 (I did this hoping it would be faster) and Firefox 8 and Audacious 2.5. The versions of the other apps that I use don't really matter, they work jut fine. I don't think there is any need to upgrade, is there?

---

### Post by el_koraco on 2011-07-27
The Debian forums are one of the worst zoos on the internet.

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-07-27
> **el_koraco said:**
> The Debian forums are one of the worst zoos on the internet.

I bet most Debian users just come here.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-07-27
> **el_koraco said:**
> The Debian forums are one of the worst zoos on the internet.
Some of the folk are ok. Some are not. It isn't very strictly moderated though. Which can be good and bad. Basically its just a forum.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-07-27
Back to the show already in progress, does 10.04 support more hardware with each point release? I only used 10.04 for a little bit.

---

### Post by kvv_1986 on 2011-07-27
The default kernel is the same 2.6.32, so I guess it does not. But it is possible to upgrade to 2.6.38 (which I did).

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-07-27
> **kvv_1986 said:**
> The default kernel is the same 2.6.32, so I guess it does not. But it is possible to upgrade to 2.6.38 (which I did).

But you could still *add* support. You're not limited to the default kernel. I could have sworn I read that point releases add hardware support. Otherwise people would be **** out of luck if they had more recent equipment.

---

### Post by steve161 on 2011-07-27
Still plugging away with 10.04. Not only that, I am still using the original 32-24 kernel.  It works flawlessly with my linux-unfriendly Toshiba laptop.  Unity?

---

### Post by Syndicalist on 2011-07-28
I sometimes use Ubuntu based distros, but I really cant envision myself ever again downloading an ISO from Ubuntu.com. I hate Unity and the Spinoffs are generally superior. I COULD do it myself, but it saves me time and I actually do have better things to be doing.

With all the changes Ive actually taken a liking to some Debian based distros, though I dont like the Debian Community nearly as much.

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-07-30
> **steve161 said:**
> Still plugging away with 10.04. Not only that, I am still using the original 32-24 kernel.  It works flawlessly with my linux-unfriendly Toshiba laptop.
I have a Toshiba laptop as well (T235D). I got Ubuntu Maverick to work with pci=noacpi, but Natty's network connection just won't speed up. It's currently running Debian 6 (the only Debian-based distro after 10.04 that works right).

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-07-30
> **Syndicalist said:**
> I sometimes use Ubuntu based distros, but I really cant envision myself ever again downloading an ISO from Ubuntu.com. I hate Unity and the Spinoffs are generally superior. I COULD do it myself, but it saves me time and I actually do have better things to be doing.

Ubuntu 10.04 is also available from Ubuntu.com. It's the only ISO I download from there nowadays. There are some good derivatives of Ubuntu, however. Can't wait 'till the Natty-based elementaryOS comes out!

> **Syndicalist said:**
> 
With all the changes Ive actually taken a liking to some Debian based distros, though I dont like the Debian Community nearly as much.

Most of the Debian users just come here. A fix for Ubuntu usually works in Debian.

---

### Post by Brushstroke on 2011-07-30
> **kvv_1986 said:**
> The default kernel is the same 2.6.32, so I guess it does not. But it is possible to upgrade to 2.6.38 (which I did).
Excuse my ignorance, but how did you do this successfully? I tried to run 2.6.38 before and the system just acted really wonky. Slow, graphics drivers weren't working, etc.

---

### Post by wolf_3d on 2011-07-30
```
~$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 10.04.3 LTS
Release:	10.04
Codename:	lucid

```

Still with 10.04 looking forward to 12.04. Staying with Lucid mainly because I regret not joining the Ubuntu train earlier and missing out on 8.04.

(And because Lucid is running so damn well!)

---

### Post by Thewhistlingwind on 2011-07-30
> **dixiedancer said:**
> 

**[COLOR=Purple]I'm so tired of hearing that I must be stupid[/COLOR]** because I found Debian to be so difficult and problematic, yet effortlessly install Ubu or Xubu in mere minutes. There *is* a difference!


Don't worry, I couldn't set up debian either.

I'm just not a 8th level Unix wizard yet.;)

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-07-30
> **Thewhistlingwind said:**
> Don't worry, I couldn't set up debian either.

I'm just not a 8th level Unix wizard yet.;)

I still don't get it. It is completely automated. The live cd takes less than 5 minutes to install if you do not do upgrades.

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2011-07-30
I installed Debian 6 about a month ago and the only thing I could not get was the libdvdcss2 that I needed installing to allow me to watch my dvd collection. So I came back to Ubuntu and back to 10.04 which I have just discovered is now at 10.04.3

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-07-30
> **Linux_junkie said:**
> I installed Debian 6 about a month ago and the only thing I could not get was the libdvdcss2 that I needed installing to allow me to watch my dvd collection. So I came back to Ubuntu and back to 10.04 which I have just discovered is now at 10.04.3

Ubuntu does not offer libdvdcss2 either. You just need Debian Multimedia. [http://www.debian-multimedia.org/](http://www.debian-multimedia.org/)

Or just nab it manually.
32bit: [http://www.debian-multimedia.org/pool/main/libd/libdvdcss/libdvdcss2_1.2.10-0.3_i386.deb](http://www.debian-multimedia.org/pool/main/libd/libdvdcss/libdvdcss2_1.2.10-0.3_i386.deb)
64-bit: [http://www.debian-multimedia.org/pool/main/libd/libdvdcss/libdvdcss2_1.2.10-0.3_amd64.deb](http://www.debian-multimedia.org/pool/main/libd/libdvdcss/libdvdcss2_1.2.10-0.3_amd64.deb)

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2011-07-30
Up to date via regular updates here.
```
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 10.04.3 LTS
Release:    10.04
Codename:    lucid
```

I have loaded ElementaryOS on one machine and like it. It is 10.10.

---

### Post by ScionicSpectre on 2011-07-30
The users who don't get forum accounts are quite likely to be on LTS releases, actually. I tend to encourage my family to stick to LTS releases unless they have a very specific reason to upgrade, or they're feeling adventurous.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-08-05
> **NightwishFan said:**
> Ubuntu does not offer libdvdcss2 either. You just need Debian Multimedia. [http://www.debian-multimedia.org/](http://www.debian-multimedia.org/)

Or just nab it manually.
32bit: [http://www.debian-multimedia.org/pool/main/libd/libdvdcss/libdvdcss2_1.2.10-0.3_i386.deb](http://www.debian-multimedia.org/pool/main/libd/libdvdcss/libdvdcss2_1.2.10-0.3_i386.deb)
64-bit: [http://www.debian-multimedia.org/pool/main/libd/libdvdcss/libdvdcss2_1.2.10-0.3_amd64.deb](http://www.debian-multimedia.org/pool/main/libd/libdvdcss/libdvdcss2_1.2.10-0.3_amd64.deb)

Thanks for that. I can see why people would prefer ubuntu, but debian really isn't that hard if you install it with the gui installer and select easy mode. Then it's just a matter of adding a couple of repos. I don't use debian anymore though, as I prefer more up-to-date distros.

But ubuntu's LTS's are very similar to debian in the respect that the main goal is stability above all else. The casual linux user probably should just stay with ubuntu lts, as they will get slightly newer apps, and slightly better ease of use. But by no means would I consider debian one of the "hard" distros. That would be gentoo, slackware, arch, lfs, ...

---

### Post by Flymo on 2011-08-24
Yes, got Ubuntu 10.4.3 on this Acer 5684 laptop (2-core T5600 & nVidia 7600 Go) plus a 2-core AMD 244 tower with nVidia 9800 graphics and Xubuntu on  a tiny eMachines ER1401 with the AMD K325 2-core and nVidia 9200 graphics - it's clipped to the back of a TV. About to build a second one of those for my neighbour.

All are solid, stable and (relatively) swift too.  Updates hold no fears, and the in-built XFCE compostor in Xubuntu (a bit of transparency) provides just enough bling to satisfy most without going OTT or slowing noticeably.

Been on U/Xubuntu LTS by choice since 8.04 for the reliablity.  

Build/fix a lot of systems for friends/rellies, and will NOT indulge any more Windows. Getting old, running out of time. Most of them didn't notice if I 'did an update' and kept the same screen background. <grin>

U/Xubuntu 10.4.x is not quite as light or sexy as (eg) Bodhi, but boy, is it reliable!  It's the one to marry after having a fabulous fling with dirty Gertie from number 30....

Love that reliability.

---

### Post by malspa on 2011-08-24
> **wolfen69 said:**
> But by no means would I consider debian one of the "hard" distros.

I agree. I've been using Debian Stable since Etch. Each new Stable so far, I've done a fresh installation, because I like to start all over and also because I like to see what the installation process looks like.

Takes longer to install and set up than Ubuntu LTS. Seems like there's always one or two steps during the installation process where I'm not completely sure about what to do. Post-installation, there's more work to be done to get things to where Ubuntu LTS is out-of-the-box. 

But that's about it, not really all that hard (especially if you keep good notes from your first time around), and then it's very low-maintenance for next few years -- runs like a Swiss watch, you might say.

Of course, Ubuntu LTS (I've been running those since Dapper), almost as stable and solid as Debian Stable, seems to me.

---

### Post by keithpeter on 2011-08-24
> **Thewhistlingwind said:**
> Don't worry, I couldn't set up debian either.

I'm just not a 8th level Unix wizard yet.;)

Do you chaps have unusual hardware then? I'm no level anything wizard but it was a case of shove the netinstall cd in and follow the instructions. I was on a wired connection...

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-08-24
The installer on basic mode just has a few extra questions. On live dvd/usb it goes something like:

language
keyboard local
network-setup (name your computer and auto if on dhcp eth)
root password (leave blank to use sudo)
username and password
partition
install
install grub or lilo

I clocked my install at 6 minutes (from boot installer to grub finished installing) on a 5400rpm hdd laptop with ext4.

Here is an of what a popular desktop linux reviewer thought of debian (good and bad)
[http://desktoplinuxreviews.com/2011/02/12/debian-6-squeeze/1/](http://desktoplinuxreviews.com/2011/02/12/debian-6-squeeze/1/)

---

### Post by standingwave on 2011-08-24
I'm running it on my "daily driver" that I just want to work with a minimum of bleeding edge hassles. 
[I]
Description:    Ubuntu 10.04.3 LTS
Release:    10.04
Codename:    lucid[/I]

---

### Post by coolbrook on 2011-08-27
Lucid and Oneiric will both be supported until April 2013 for desktops. I'll upgrade in October.

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-08-27
Ubuntu 10.04 is actually very close to Debian 6.

Really, the main differences are in the installer, and PPAs don't work in Debian (or at least not my usual method: add-apt-repository).

Most of the differences you'll notice are the menus and themes. I generally prefer Ubuntu Lucid to Debian, just for the PPAs and theme.

---

### Post by Snowboi on 2011-08-27
I will as soon as i get my new laptop :)
Need to have the *latest* upgrades of course. :KS

---

