---
title: "RIP laptop 2009 - 2010"
date: 2010-12-07
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Quadunit404 on 2010-12-07
Today, in the middle of school, my laptop decided to go "lol screw you" on me and break. I was working on some schoolwork and then suddenly the X server killed itself. I tried rebooting and Ubuntu told me it could not find my graphics card. I tried booting in low-graphics mode but that didn't work. The only way I can boot it now is through a live USB of Fedora I have lying around, but obviously I don't want to boot like that ALL the time.

We've figured that the total cost of repairs will be too high (new graphics card + new screen + shipping and handling + $100 for labor) so we're looking for a new one. What I'm looking for is:

- A good or high-quality processor
- A good or high-quality NVIDIA graphics card
- At least 4GB RAM
- MORE THAN THREE USB PORTS
- A hard drive of at least 500GB
- Linux compatibility
- At least $500

I don't know how long it'll take to find a new one nor how much money it will be. I'll try looking at the ones listed in the laptop compatibility list (excluding mine, of course ;) ) and see if I can find one that meets my needs.

You've had a good run, laptop... rest in peace.

---

### Post by smellyman on 2010-12-07
if a Fedora usb works, why would you have to replace graphics card and screen?  From your post it sounds like you have a perfectly working laptop.

---

### Post by Cpierce on 2010-12-07
I agree, if a live CD/USB works, you would think a clean install should too.

---

### Post by handy on 2010-12-07
> **smellyman said:**
> if a Fedora usb works, why would you have to replace graphics card and screen?  From your post it sounds like you have a perfectly working laptop.

I agree. 

If a live distro works then you only have corruption. Try reinstalling X.org & your graphics card driver?

---

### Post by Quadunit404 on 2010-12-07
The screen still works and Xorg.conf still reads okay. It just can't find the card it's referring to, though, which renders it un-bootable.

I'll make a live USB of Ubuntu sometime (unless I already have one) and back up my /home, then try reinstalling. If that doesn't work, I'm screwed until I can get a new laptop.

PS: I always had this feeling my laptop had a mind of its own... and it really showed me that with that "lol screw you" it pulled.

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2010-12-07
Did you, by any chance, install any updates recently that may have affected the graphics?

Either way, it sounds like the graphics chip is working, and the screen is obviously working, if you get something displayed onscreen.

Try reinstalling/booting from a Live USB/CD, and hopefully you'll save a lot of money! :)

---

### Post by Quadunit404 on 2010-12-07
Here's my plan for tomorrow, just so that you all are aware:

1. Clean out the fan; I checked it a few minutes ago and found it to be covered with dust and this may help solve my overheating issue.
2. Create an Ubuntu live USB using unetbootin on this crappy desktop.
3. Boot the live USB
4. Install Deja Dup from a package and create a backup of my home on an external drive (if only you could back up your actual home that way...)
5. Reinstall Ubuntu
6. Restore home folder (this time in the RIGHT location!)
7. ???
8. PROFIT!

I won't be stuck on Windows for a long time if all the above works :wink:

---

### Post by Quadunit404 on 2010-12-08
Status report:

- Fan has been cleaned out. Laptop is running cooler (maybe, can't tell until I get everything restored)
- I will need a new external drive for the backup process since my current external apparently hates my laptop now :|

Hopefully I'll get everything working again by 8 or 9PM EST.

---

### Post by Quadunit404 on 2010-12-08
Status report:

- Got a new hard drive capable of holding up to 1TB of data. The amount available was only 931GB, but with my entire home folder backed up in 500-something volumes it still has over 900GB left. The backup succeeded.
- Ubuntu is being reinstalled as I type. After the re-installation is done I will restore my stuff and reinstall any programs I had installed before.

Sorry that I keep bumping this thread (sorta) but I AM recovering from this system failure and won't have to use this crappy thing for a LONG time after Ubuntu reinstalls :D

---

### Post by Oxwivi on 2010-12-09
From RIP to UIP?

*use in peace

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-12-09
Huzzah for working laptops. :D

---

