---
title: "1000 posts"
date: 2009-09-04
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Gen2ly on 2009-09-04
Not really anything of consequential value but just wanted to say I just made my 1000 post!  Been part of Linux for three years now and liking it as much as ever.  Thanks for all the people who helped me get through some early rough stages here in the forum.  Without your help, I'd have never gotten as far I have.  Hopefully, too, I have helped a few people in the process.  With all luck, I'll be here in another three years.  All good to Linux.

---

### Post by Eisenwinter on 2009-09-04
And yet again, a person paying too much attention to a **simple number which has no actual meaning.**

---

### Post by misfitpierce on 2009-09-04
Grats lol and yeah it does not mean much

---

### Post by realzippy on 2009-09-04
> **Eisenwinter said:**
> And yet again, a person paying too much attention to a **simple number which has no actual meaning.**


...and yet again a person quoting as self purpose.


"Thanks for all the people who helped me get through some early rough stages here in the forum"

...that means much.

---

### Post by Gen2ly on 2009-09-04
> **realzippy said:**
> ...that means much.

Thank you.

---

### Post by TuckLive on 2009-09-04
> **Eisenwinter said:**
> And yet again, a person paying too much attention to a **simple number which has no actual meaning.**

Way to rain on somebody's parade.  :rolleyes:  I guess you didn't read the rest of his post?

---

### Post by t0p on 2009-09-04
> **Eisenwinter said:**
> And yet again, a person paying too much attention to a **simple number which has no actual meaning.**

Actually it *does* mean something: it means the OP has more beans than you! *Few beans loser!*  /me points at Eisenwinter's tiny pile o' beans

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2009-09-04
Congratulations on you! 1000 posts is a lot, especially if you're serious about it's content. 

I also see that you've been registered at this forum for a couple of years, so I would guess it is.

---

