---
title: "10.10 download"
date: 2010-12-07
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2010-12-07
In the next day or 2, my timing needs to be well planned; about how long is the download time assuming an ISP typical 3+ mgb/s average? Thanks

---

### Post by LowSky on 2010-12-07
its a 650 MB download...  do the math

---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2010-12-07
> **LowSky said:**
> its a 650 MB download...  do the math Thank you! Just what i need to know! :popcorn::KS Oh, and the IRC #ubuntu-offtopic might need a look... or something..

---

### Post by treesurf on 2010-12-07
Torrent download will probably be fastest.

---

### Post by Sean Moran on 2010-12-07
> **treesurf said:**
> Torrent download will probably be fastest.

If download speeds are 3Mb/s + then that's 180Mb/m, and 693.2 / 180 = 3.85 minutes or 3m 51.06s.  Why not start the download, boil the kettle, make a coffee, and come back and open Brasero? :D

---

### Post by julio_cortez on 2010-12-07
> **Sean Moran said:**
> If download speeds are 3Mb/s + then that's 180Mb/m, and 693.2 / 180 = 3.85 minutes or 3m 51.06s.  Why not start the download, boil the kettle, make a coffee, and come back and open Brasero? :D
Consider that connection speeds are quite always stated in megaBITS while CD size are in megaBYTES!! *And, well, 1MB = 8Mb..* :P

With a 3Mbit/s I expect it to take little more than half an hour in my opinion (with the connection at full throttle of course, keep in mind that the 3Mb/s limit is theoretical and isn't always reached).

---

### Post by Sean Moran on 2010-12-07
> **julio_cortez said:**
> Consider that connection speeds are quite always stated in megaBITS while CD size are in megaBYTES!! *And, well, 1MB = 8Mb..* :P

With a 3Mbit/s I expect it to take little more than half an hour in my opinion (with the connection at full throttle of course, keep in mind that the 3Mb/s limit is theoretical and isn't always reached).
Thanks for clearing that up Julio.  I would have thought the same, but here where I average around 30 Kb/s (back in Australia for the next month), I've gotten used to a Live-CD .iso taking around seven hours to download. and so I was curious about this thread and did my sums:

30 Kb/s = 1800 Kb/m
1800/1.024 =  1.7578125 Mb/m
693.2/1.7578125 = 394.35378 minutes or around 6h 20m for Meerkat, which corresponds with the rough estimate of seven hours for a Live-CD .iso download that seems to be the norm at this pace.

So, the rates here on this download manager would seem to be working on bytes, rather than bits, but I stand corrected if the specified 3+ mgb/s is based on bits, rather than bytes.

---

### Post by julio_cortez on 2010-12-07
Probably I'm not getting something here.. This is how I got my results:

3Mb/s -> 0,4MB/s circa.
700MB/0,4 -> 1750 seconds to get it complete.
1750/60 -> 29 minutes and a half circa.

Well I'm used to broadband speeds being measured in Mbit/s so I can be wrong here if it's actually in MByte/s..

But I back this up with my experience: 20Mb/s (which roughly runs at 12Mb/s stable) and 10.04.1 downloaded in something like 8 minutes and a half..

---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2010-12-07
Thanks everyone; this makes my planning much easier! :popcorn:

---

### Post by cgroza on 2010-12-07
Why not just download the torrent, put it in deluge or whatever and check the countdown? It is easier than doing all the math and trying to figure out if it is MB or Mb.

---

