---
title: "10.10 users downgrade to 10.04?"
date: 2011-10-12
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by bs5765 on 2011-10-12
10.10 users:

In six months, Canonical will cease updates for the beloved Meercat. Do you plan on upgrading to 12.04, downgrading to 10.10, or something else?

Even though my info states otherwise, I am rocking 10.04. I got tired of all the distro hopping and just want something stable.

If they polish up Unity as much from 11.10 to 12.04 as they did going from 11.04 to 11.10, it's a serious possibility that I will switch to 12.04 (after a few months to sort out the bugs of course).

How about you? What do you plan on doing?

---

### Post by KingYaba on 2011-10-12
Sticking with 10.04 until it's no longer supported. Then I'll run the Xubuntu LTS.

---

### Post by Inodoro Pereyra on 2011-10-12
Definitely agree with KingYaba. I tried 10.10 and 11.04, and they both sucked. 10.04 has worked flawlessly on both my machines, ever since I installed it. From now on, I'm sticking with the LTS versions.

---

### Post by pr3zident on 2011-10-12
> **KingYaba said:**
> Sticking with 10.04 until it's no longer supported. Then I'll run the Xubuntu LTS.

is Xubuntu LTS thats for netbooks right ? I never tried it i think im going to try it i hear alot of people talking about it.

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2011-10-12
> **pr3zident said:**
> is Xubuntu LTS thats for netbooks right ? I never tried it i think im going to try it i hear alot of people talking about it.

Xubuntu used XFCE which is a fully fledged DE made for any system... It started out as being a lightweight alternative to Gnome but recent releases have been a bit "heavier" but very good looking and powerful. (LXDE has replaced XFCE as the "lightweight" alternative DE at the moment, you could also check out Lubuntu using it...)


404

---

### Post by Gone fishing on 2011-10-12
I think you'd be missing out to go back to 10.04.

I've always quite liked Unity but 11.04 to 11.10 is a huge improvement and I think a lot better than standard Gnome 2 - by 12.04 it will be very good.

If I think of the problems KDE had with 4 I'd say Canonical have done very well with Unity.

---

### Post by pr3zident on 2011-10-12
> **not found said:**
> Xubuntu used XFCE which is a fully fledged DE made for any system... It started out as being a lightweight alternative to Gnome but recent releases have been a bit "heavier" but very good looking and powerful. (LXDE has replaced XFCE as the "lightweight" alternative DE at the moment, you could also check out Lubuntu using it...)


404
O ok I think I'm going to stay with ubuntu then

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2011-10-12
> **pr3zident said:**
> O ok I think I'm going to stay with ubuntu then

Oh when I say XFCE is heavier I didn't mean heavier than Gnome... just heavier than it started out as... (sorry if it caused any confusion)


404

---

### Post by Machiavelli on 2011-10-12
I hate Unity.

---

### Post by Brushstroke on 2011-10-12
Nope. 11.10 minimal with Gnome 3. :D

Although I am currently using 10.04 since I didn't like Unity.

---

### Post by pr3zident on 2011-10-12
> **not found said:**
> Xubuntu used XFCE which is a fully fledged DE made for any system... It started out as being a lightweight alternative to Gnome but recent releases have been a bit "heavier" but very good looking and powerful. (LXDE has replaced XFCE as the "lightweight" alternative DE at the moment, you could also check out Lubuntu using it...)


404

O ok i have lubuntu installed on my gf computer I like it but i need something that is going to blow my Ubuntu 11.04 gnome3 setup out the box i have found nothing yet.... i tried ubuntu, lubuntu, mint linux and kde. I found ubuntu was the best but i hear alot of people talking about XCFE..

---

### Post by Artemis3 on 2011-10-12
Just try the live CD and see for yourself.

XFCE preserves the classic desktop, just like gnome2 and kde3 used to be. It also happens to be lighter than gnome/kde, while remaining friendly.

Nowadays there is a push to destroy the classic desktop experience, and make it more like cell phone/tablet uis, and some even require heavy graphic effects.

LXDE is a good alternative, if your machine has less than 512m or ram.

---

### Post by sanderella on 2011-10-12
Staying for the next LTS. :)

---

### Post by Linuxratty on 2011-10-12
May go back, or move to Kubuntu,Xubuntu Bodhi,or Fedora. I have plenty of time to decide.

---

### Post by ubupirate on 2011-10-12
I decided to downgrade to 10.04 and stick with it. Only major thing I had to do was install 3.0.4 kernel from Ubuntu kernel mainline to be able to play WoW on Wine without distorted graphics. :)

---

### Post by drascus on 2011-10-12
I have been using 11.04 without issue. I like unity. I went back to gnome a few times and found myself missing unity. You can really run any DE you want to in ubuntu so I don't see what the big issue is. you can upgrade and just install any DE you want. I would rather do that than use older code that is going to be no longer supported.

---

### Post by radar920 on 2011-10-12
> **KingYaba said:**
> Sticking with 10.04 until it's no longer supported. Then I'll run the Xubuntu LTS.


I was thinking of doing the same.

---

### Post by koleoptero on 2011-10-12
I'm sticking with 10.10 till 12.04, then I'll rethink about it.

10.10 has another 6 months of support in case you haven't noticed. Also it won't blow up after the support ends.

---

### Post by Legendary_Bibo on 2011-10-13
I'm moving over to 11.10...I want to learn how to develop for GTK, and GTK2 just looks like a mess.

---

