---
title: "12.10-What Will You Do?"
date: 2012-09-07
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Ubun2to on 2012-09-07
As you know, 12.10 is coming out soon.
So, what will you do?
Clean install, upgrade, or nothing?
I'm thinking of a clean install-so many packages have been added over the course of using Ubuntu, I have a feeling at least 40 will be incompatible with 12.10 (judging by how frequently they are updated), and I want to start with a clean slate to avoid anything from screwing up. I also hate how many useless programs I have added and never removed because of the dependencies that are also removed. So, I am going with a clean install.
What do you do?

---

### Post by december0123 on 2012-09-07
Clean install is always the best option, cause you know nothing will be in conflict. I haven't decided if I want to upgrade yet, but if I do, clean install is my way.

---

### Post by qamelian on 2012-09-07
> **december0123 said:**
> Clean install is always the best option, cause you know nothing will be in conflict. I haven't decided if I want to upgrade yet, but if I do, clean install is my way.
Not always true. As I have stated before, there have been three Ubuntu releases that would not install on my hardware from a clean install, but would upgrade in place without any issues at all. As a result, I don't even consider a clean install any more except on test boxes, unless there is a major change such as the switch from ext3 to ext4 filesystem.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2012-09-07
I'll be upgrading the laptop. The desktop 12.04 partition will be 13.04 in short order and the 12.10 will just get updated from wherever the last update was.

---

### Post by exploder on 2012-09-07
I plan on staying with the LTS release because it runs well on my hardware and I like the 5 years of support. I do want to look at 12.10 to see the improvements to Unity first hand though. I always do a clean install with any release to save myself the trouble of having to fix things.

---

### Post by mips on 2012-09-07
I'm already on 12.10 beta but it's a bumpy road

---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2012-09-07
Well if its similar to 12.04,I'll install the newest version
of Xubuntu:popcorn:

---

### Post by vexorian on 2012-09-07
I am not able to decide between doing a clean install or keeping LTS.

The good thing about LTS is that its repositories will last for 5 years. Have to decide between upgrading every 6 months or keep LTS for a good amount of years.

After years of many dist-upgrades. I have decided not to ever, ever, do a upgrade again. Clean installs are... well, much cleaner. And not a huge headache.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-09-07
Clean installations are my preference. Once bitten forever shy.

---

### Post by drawkcab on 2012-09-07
I'm thinking of a clean install on my primary laptop.  Right now I'm running xfce but I'd like to give gnome shell or unity a shot with 12.10.

Sticking with 12.04 + gnome shell on my htpc though.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-09-07
sticking with 10.04 for a little longer
been getting xubuntu 12.04 (xfce 4.10) ready for full time use
still need to get compiz just right (which is downgraded)

---

### Post by vasilbelarus on 2012-09-07
I have used all versions of Ubuntu from 10.04 to 12.04. But now I want to use 12.04 until next LTS or late.
So I will only try 12.10 as liveCD to see what happens.

---

### Post by robtygart on 2012-09-07
I have read some things about 12.10 that sounds really good, I can't wait. I am using Kubuntu, I am going to do the upgrade this time. I am also going to throw Ubuntu Beta on a partition and play around with that, (Maybe I will start to like Unity :lolflag:) 


> **vasilbelarus said:**
> I have used all versions of Ubuntu from 10.04 to 12.04. But now I want to use 12.04 until next LTS or late.
So I will only try 12.10 as liveCD to see what happens.

You will not get the full effect of 12.10 with a live CD, you might want to go with "Virtual Box"..

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-09-07
Linux Mint has the best method of doing clean installs. Mintbackup allows you to backup your apps list as well as your /home folder. Then when you restore the backup after a clean install, it will automatically fetch and install all of the apps you had previously installed. The only problem with Mint is that they don't have any official way at all to do an upgrade, rather than a clean install.

---

### Post by Sarys on 2012-09-07
Upgrade

---

### Post by VE6EFR on 2012-09-07
I am leaning toward upgrading, however if I start to have problems after the upgrade I will then do a clean install instead of trying to troubleshoot.

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-09-07
On my primary box I'll do a clean install.

Leave the two server boxes on 12.04 for a few years.

---

### Post by majabl on 2012-09-07
Upgrade, and if that doesn't work as expected then I'll go ahead with a manual reinstall. Can't say that I've ever had any problems with upgrading, though.

---

### Post by Jakin on 2012-09-07
I'll give QQ a try, but if it turns out no real benifit... i'll stick with 12.04.1 LTS (been rock solid for me so far)

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2012-09-07
My servers that run Ubuntu will stay with 12.04 LTS. With servers I prefer to limit the maintenance expended, and I don't actually care about the version of desktop enviorment (DE) or the applications that come with a desktop iso. 

I will try the non-LTS releases in a virtual machine to observe what is changing, learn how to help with the problems other people are encountering, and evaluate whether there is anything that would entice me to upgrade to a non-LTS release.

My laptops and Netbook will stay with 12.04 LTS unless I find a very good reason to move to a non-LTS release. My laptops are already at 12.04. I am thinking about moving my netbook from 10.04 to 12.04 tomorrow.

I do fresh installs rather than a ***do-release-upgrade***. It is an oportunity for me to clean the system of the clutter. I use rsync for servers and grsync for desktops on a regular schedule; therefore, a fresh install takes less time than a ***do-release-upgrade***. ;)

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-09-07
I nearly always change the distro name and do a safe-upgrade ...... part way through 12.04 to 12.10 .... 

This time it went well and will wait now till closer to release date to do another safe-upgrade.

Few things I have noticed so far .... as the main thing I like to do using Ubuntu and its derivatives is 3d work ..... but this time wings3d has dependency problems and k3dsurf is no longer in the repos for download.

Makehuman .... will not install either as its deb calls for Python2.6 ....... although Python2.7 is installed ..... this time it seems not to want to install.

But as we know its not complete yet so things may change.

---

### Post by sunfromhere on 2012-09-07
I was thinking of not updating. However, if there is some good info on AMD & Ubuntu, I might give it a try.

---

### Post by Primefalcon on 2012-09-07
I am moving houses and such... so a lot going on. So I'll stick with my current desktop rather than have to mess around

---

### Post by GreatDanton on 2012-09-07
I already have 12.10. Since I don't have much problems and it runs much better than 12.04 (lucky me) I will stay on 12.10 or make a clean install of the next releases.

---

### Post by dorrellkc on 2012-09-07
:popcorn: Plan to do an upgrade on the laptop. If all he77 breaks loose then will do a clean insall. The media center pc will remain on 12.04 till I decide if it is worth it to upgrade to or just wait.

---

### Post by Lightstar on 2012-09-07
I used to upgrade because I had a bunch of widgets, conky, panels and stuff... Sometimes I didn't feel like setting it up again.

Now with Gnome 3 and Unity, I don't even feel the need for any of those.
I think it's time for a clean install.

---

### Post by Erik1984 on 2012-09-07
Can't tell. I'm not planning to upgrade/install immediately after release. Mainly because I installed Precise just 2 weeks ago.

---

### Post by Linuxratty on 2012-09-07
> **mips said:**
> I'm already on 12.10 beta but it's a bumpy road

 After Klikit Linux, no more bumpy roads for me...Staying with Precise.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-09-07
I'll do a clean install, and upgrade to 13.04 as soon as the toolchain becomes available.

I have a fallback install of 12.04.1 that will stay the same, just in case the development version becomes unusable like the current one did.

---

### Post by makitso on 2012-09-07
Tried out 12.10 xubuntu and Ubuntu this morning on virtualbox.  Didn't like what I saw;  xubuntu is starting to hide system functions in their menu just like gnome/ unity, and Ubuntu with the fade in at app launch....

I will stick with 12.04 for the time being :-(

---

### Post by Stonecold1995 on 2012-09-08
I'll upgrade.  I figure that, if for some reason the upgrade goes wrong, I can always to a clean install over it, but if I *start out* with a clean install, there's really no way I can revert it if I change my mind afterwards.

---

### Post by mr john on 2012-09-08
I've been using Ubuntu since Breezy Badger. I'll probably just update because it's easier and I'm lazy. After using Ubuntu for 6 years the novelty of installing "The New Version" has worn off. I don't want to do more work than I have to. I'll only do a clean install if things don't work properly after the upgrade.

---

### Post by mikodo on 2012-09-08
Nothing for now.

I still use Ubuntu 10.04, and in the past have always done new installs with my dedicated home partition brought forward. Next will be Xubuntu 12.04, from a fresh install and syncing my data back from a backup. 

I think I will stay with LTS releases with backports and PPA's on my primary OS from now on, and share a new /data partition for hoots, with other installs.

---

### Post by pissedoffdude on 2012-09-08
Switch distro :P

Seriously though, I always just do a clean install to avoid having any issues.  It's not that much of a hassle, and definitely worth it if you really want an upgrade.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-09-08
Even though I did a successful upgrade from 11.04 to 11.10, when 12.04 reached RC, I did a clean install. For 12.10, I'm likely to move to Xubuntu. My laptop isn't getting any younger :( .

---

### Post by KiwiNZ on 2012-09-08
It will be installed on one of my test machines, it will be a clean install

---

### Post by click4851 on 2012-09-08
nothin

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2012-09-08
On my laptop, probably an upgrade. My server has been upgraded already. I have another computer that I'm going ot put Quantal on, but I am unsure how yet. I haven't touched it for over a year, so it will depend on the state I left it in. :p

---

### Post by viperdvman on 2012-09-08
Of course, I'm very likely going to do a fresh install about a month after its release. But, I'll also keep 12.04 around for a while since it is an LTS. It does suck that these releases happen in the middle of college semesters, especially if classes are really heavy.

But, yup. I do intend to upgrade on the desktop about a month after the stable release, with a clean install as I always do. That does mean I have to back up my firefox bookmarks, my icon sets, everything that's in my Ubuntu home folder and not my second hard drive, stuff like that. But, clean install is always the best.

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2012-09-08
When running multiple installations it's often difficult to vote. :D

[LIST]
[*]I'm already running a development version of Kubuntu 12.10 on my desktop.
[*]On my laptop both Ubuntu and Kubuntu 12.04 will probably stay.
[*]On my netbook, I will most certainly upgrade Lubuntu to 12.10 as there are some great looking improvements on the way.
[/LIST]
However, as these threads seem to focus on Ubuntu, rather than one of the derivatives, I'll vote for keeping the current version. ;)

---

### Post by tjeremiah on 2012-09-08
upgrade on my main laptop, clean install on my new desktop.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2012-09-08
> **PaulW2U said:**
> 
However, as these threads seem to focus on Ubuntu, rather than one of the derivatives, I'll vote for keeping the current version. ;)

Or maybe what you call "derivatives" are in fact the exact same distribution, just with a different set of default packages, and thus the thread applies to them equally well. ;)

---

### Post by afulldeck on 2012-09-08
I'll update a test laptop first, see what's new and what cost/benefits are available. I'm happy with 12.04. It make my T400 scream with speed compared to the alternative :-&

---

### Post by bullfrog13x4 on 2012-09-08
it is difficult to answer this poll because i use ubuntu on multiple machines and some of them will receive a new fresh install and others will receive upgrades,,,  maybe we should ask witch way you would use it the most or maybe even how many machines do you use ubuntu on,,,,   just a thought....

---

### Post by capink on 2012-09-08
> **forrestcupp said:**
> Linux Mint has the best method of doing clean installs. Mintbackup allows you to backup your apps list as well as your /home folder. Then when you restore the backup after a clean install, it will automatically fetch and install all of the apps you had previously installed. The only problem with Mint is that they don't have any official way at all to do an upgrade, rather than a clean install.


That is a nice idea. But I don't think it would work properly for people who install a lot of deb packages manually or from third party repositories.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-09-08
> **capink said:**
> That is a nice idea. But I don't think it would work properly for people who install a lot of deb packages manually or from third party repositories.

It probably doesn't work with manually installed debs, but it does work with PPAs.

---

### Post by vexorian on 2012-09-08
> **capink said:**
> That is a nice idea. But I don't think it would work properly for people who install a lot of deb packages manually or from third party repositories.
They are better of with a 100% clean install in that case. Cause normal dist-upgrade will be problematic too.

---

### Post by Welly Wu on 2012-09-08
I am pretty sure that I will stick with Ubuntu 12.04.1 64 bit Long Term Service until April 2014. Unity 6.2 and 6.4 are slower in Ubuntu 12.10 64 bit than Unity 5.6 in Ubuntu 12.04.1 64 bit LTS according to Phoronix.

---

### Post by phosphide on 2012-09-09
I always dual boot an LTS and the in betweens. Right now I am running 10.04 and 12.04 since it just came out, but 10.04 will be gone soon and 12.10 will take its place.

Goodbye 10.04, you will be missed. :(

---

