---
title: "11.04"
date: 2010-08-17
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by fluteflute on 2010-08-17
[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/478](http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/478)

---

### Post by Cam42 on 2010-08-17
:lolflag:

Best name yet?

---

### Post by fluteflute on 2010-08-17
I like it, but I notice Mark doesn't give his usual fairly long blurb about the goals for the release. But hey, no doubt it'll be good! ;D

Edit: I also have to link to [http://weebls-stuff.com/songs/Narwhals/](http://weebls-stuff.com/songs/Narwhals/) - thanks to Jono Bacon

---

### Post by ace214 on 2010-08-17
> **fluteflute said:**
> Edit: I also have to link to [http://weebls-stuff.com/songs/Narwhals/](http://weebls-stuff.com/songs/Narwhals/) - thanks to Jono Bacon

Um.... awesome.....

---

### Post by Austin25 on 2010-08-17
Aren't those the fish that have horns and don't have eyes?

---

### Post by Stancel on 2010-08-17
I thought it was going to be Nifty Narwhal, turns out I was close.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-08-17
Natty Nat"ty, a. [Cf. Neat clean.]
 Neatly dressed; smart; trim; tidy; spruce. [Colloq.]
 [1913 Webster] -- Nat"ti*ly, adv. -- Nat"ti*ness, n.
 [1913 Webster]


Narwhal Nar"whal (n[aum]r"hw[.a]l), n. [Sw. or Dan. narvhal;
 akin to Icel. n[=a]hvalr, and E. whale. the first syllable is
 perh. from Icel. n[=a]r corpse, dead body, in allusion to the
 whitish color its skin. See Whale.] [Written also
 narwhale and narwal.] (Zool.)
 An arctic cetacean ({Monodon monocerous}), about twenty feet
 long. The male usually has one long, twisted, pointed canine
 tooth, or tusk, projecting forward from the upper jaw like a
 horn, whence it is called also sea unicorn, fish},
 and unicorn whale. two horns are developed, side
 by side.
 [1913 Webster]

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2010-08-17
Launch of the Natty Narwhal? :D

---

### Post by phillw on 2010-08-17
In case you haven't read / seen, our sabdfl has named 11.04 over at [11.04 name](http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/478)

I'm only posting it here as I'm interested in what [Ranch Hand](http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=647614) will be calling his.

:lolflag:

Regards,

Phill.
P.S. Mods, once Ranch Hand has answered please feel free to move to the cafe area, thanks.

---

### Post by Starks on 2010-08-17
Reddit is going nuts. They love narwhals.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-08-17
Naughty Newt.

---

### Post by 23meg on 2010-08-17
> **ranch hand said:**
> Naughty Newt.

You forgot "Extremely social from the start™" ;)

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-08-17
Here I thought that was implied.

---

### Post by 23meg on 2010-08-17
Moved to CC.

---

### Post by afroman10496 on 2010-08-17
Gnarly Gnat ;)

---

### Post by cpmman on 2010-08-17
Nonsensical Nomenclature :rolleyes:

---

### Post by Little Bones on 2010-08-17
> **cpmman said:**
> Nonsensical Nomenclature :rolleyes:

Yeeesssssss, gold star:KS

---

### Post by chriswyatt on 2010-08-17
Narcoleptic Nematode.

---

### Post by andymorton on 2010-08-17
> **cpmman said:**
> Nonsensical Nomenclature :rolleyes:

This gets my vote!:D

---

### Post by Austin25 on 2010-08-17
Nude Nightcrawler. :lolflag:

---

### Post by ktp on 2010-08-17
> **cpmman said:**
> Nonsensical Nomenclature :rolleyes:

nicely done!!

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-08-17
> **afroman10496 said:**
> Gnarly Gnat ;)

> **chriswyatt said:**
> Narcoleptic Nematode.

I love both of these! Probably the second a little more 'cause it's longer.
But, both are gold!

---

### Post by VastOne on 2010-08-17
> **cpmman said:**
> Nonsensical Nomenclature :rolleyes:

This!!!  :KS

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2010-08-17
> **afroman10496 said:**
> Gnarly Gnat ;)

Fails because we are in the N's.

> **cpmman said:**
> Nonsensical Nomenclature :rolleyes:

Fails because "Nomenclature" last I checked isn't actually a animal. ;)


My name roll:
Nimble Nautilus
---------------------
Too bad a name has been sense chosen. :/

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-08-17
Merged two threads about Natty Narwhal

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2010-08-17
How about 'Naughty Night-crawlers'?

---

### Post by cguy on 2010-08-17
Nerdy Nautilus <- doesn't this SCREAM "extremely social"? :D

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2010-08-17
> **cguy said:**
> Nerdy Nautilus <- doesn't this SCREAM "extremely social"? :D

lol Probably not,

Though come to think about it, I think the Nautilus travels solo... The Humboldt Squid though travels in groups or "shoals" as it is referred for them, too bad their name isn't a N one. :/

---

### Post by murderslastcrow on 2010-08-17
I was really hoping it would be something this absurd. The fact that it's applicable to the release makes it all the better. I'm really excited to see how things will advance, since I've been contemplating just how much further the desktop could go?

Maybe Ubuntu will make desktop computing more relevant to users again and inspire people, like OS X did. It really seems to be the next OS X considering its use cases and adoption.

But it just harbored so much more creativity due to the design ethics of the free software community.

The only thing I'm really worried about is the GL related comments. I just hope that there isn't any desktop functionality that will require compositing, since not every computer (older Macs) have access to compositing in Linux due to their processor architecture, and closed drivers would cause people to need to install them before enjoying those features.

But I totally agree that taking advantage of those capabilities is key to really showing off Ubuntu, when available. I mean, it looks so great WITHOUT compositing already (KDE 4 is a good example of this). And really, provided the right drivers, it's really hard to come across any computer than could run Ubuntu but doesn't have compositing available.

---

### Post by Stancel on 2010-08-17
...

---

### Post by phillw on 2010-08-17
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Merged two threads about Natty Narwhal

Thanks cariboo. It's nice to have a break from answering questions and have a giggle now and again. Who said Linux is for Nerds :lolflag:

Regards,

Phill.

---

### Post by Austin25 on 2010-08-17
> **phillw said:**
> Thanks cariboo. It's nice to have a break from answering questions and have a giggle now and again. Who said Linux is for Nerds :lolflag:

Regards,

Phill.
Bill Gates. :lolflag:

---

### Post by linux18 on 2010-08-17
> **Austin25 said:**
> Bill Gates. :lolflag:
nill nates

also, have you noticed that 12.04 LTS will be a 'P' word
powerful penguin?

---

### Post by Austin25 on 2010-08-17
> **linux18 said:**
> nill nates

also, have you noticed that 12.04 LTS will be a 'P' word
powerful penguin?
Absolutely! I hope for some awesome tux backgrounds.

---

### Post by Cam42 on 2010-08-17
> **MasterNetra said:**
> 


Fails because "Nomenclature" last I checked isn't actually a animal. ;)



that's it. if I ever discover an animal, I'm naming it Nomenclature.

---

### Post by afroman10496 on 2010-08-17
> **linux18 said:**
> nill nates

also, have you noticed that 12.04 LTS will be a 'P' word
powerful penguin?

Pneumoniatic Penguin! :lolflag:

---

### Post by linux18 on 2010-08-17
persuing penguin

---

### Post by Khakilang on 2010-08-17
So when is the Beta version coming out. So that I can get the first hand experience.

---

### Post by linux18 on 2010-08-17
> **Khakilang said:**
> So when is the Beta version coming out. So that I can get the first hand experience.
by my obvious estimates, more than 6 months away

---

### Post by afroman10496 on 2010-08-18
Peeping penguin :-k

---

### Post by murderslastcrow on 2010-08-18
Plunderin' Penguin! YAAARR, I be in yer computarrrz, stealin' ur marketshaaarrr!!

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2010-08-18
> **murderslastcrow said:**
> Plunderin' Penguin! YAAARR, I be in yer computarrrz, stealin' ur marketshaaarrr!!

we have to have Oblivious Octopus before we can have Plunderin' Penguin.

---

### Post by BlazeFire247 on 2010-08-18
> **earthpigg said:**
> we have to have Oblivious Octopus before we can have Plunderin' Penguin.

Make that Observant Octopus...

---

### Post by librano on 2010-08-18
Look what I did :lolflag:

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WLARFKbre_I](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WLARFKbre_I)

---

### Post by julio_cortez on 2010-08-18
> **murderslastcrow said:**
> Plunderin' Penguin! YAAARR, I be in yer computarrrz, stealin' ur marketshaaarrr!!
Plunderin' penguin?

I was rooting for[SIZE=6][B]
Powerful Puma[/B][/SIZE]
to be honest..

Or maybe.. [SIZE=5][THIS]("http://www.dodaj.rs/f/3x/AF/4jD0SUHK/pink-panther.jpg")[/SIZE]

---

### Post by Arthur_D on 2010-08-18
> **MacUntu said:**
> Launch of the Natty Narwhal? :D

I see what you did there... :lolflag:

---

### Post by gnomeuser on 2010-08-18
Naked Nematode

This for the sole reason that I would be asked if I was running naked. Also we finally have a reason to go back to our roots with some of the artwork.

Also nematodes like Linux is thought to be the most diverse species.

Regardless, I am looking forward to 11.04, hopefully it will bring lots of great improvements. Hopefully finally we can get some Banshee love in the default desktop.

---

### Post by afroman10496 on 2010-08-18
Promiscuous Penguin:lolflag:

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2010-08-18
> **librano said:**
> Look what I did :lolflag:

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WLARFKbre_I](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WLARFKbre_I)

very informative, thank you.

---

### Post by Artemis Fowl on 2010-08-18
Narwhals are the jedi of the sea. So are we going to be jedi of ubuntu?
sudo apt-get install Lightubuntu 
rm ~/Darkubuntu 

Immaturity out of the way, I only just now noticed that a lot of ubuntu releases are named after animals.

---

### Post by juanclunac on 2010-08-19
> **julio_cortez said:**
> Plunderin' penguin?

I was rooting for[SIZE=6][B]
Powerful Puma[/B][/SIZE]
to be honest..

Or maybe.. [SIZE=5][THIS]("http://www.dodaj.rs/f/3x/AF/4jD0SUHK/pink-panther.jpg")[/SIZE]

I really agree with your second choise, [COLOR=Magenta]PINK PANTHER[/COLOR], that should be the 11.11 Ubuntu name :)

---

### Post by Delvien on 2010-08-19
Reminds me of early 20 beer pong games. "natty" light.

---

