---
title: "10-13-2005 a myth?"
date: 2005-12-14
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by curuxz on 2005-12-14
The forums state that there were 1500 users online on 10-13-2005 this seems a very round number :S is it true and if it is can we beat it?

---

### Post by jdong on 2005-12-14
It's either real or a vbulletin bug :)

---

### Post by macgyver2 on 2005-12-14
[QUOTE=curuxz]The forums state that there were 1500 users online on 10-13-2005 this seems a very round number :S is it true and if it is can we beat it?[/QUOTE]
It's true (I just have no real evidence to back it up :))...just a coincidence that it's a nice round number.  I remember the number hanging around the high 1400s for a couple hours that day.  That was right when Breezy was released *and* ubuntu-geek finished some big server upgrades that (through no fault of his own) took the forums down for awhile.  I don't think it's come close since then, though I'd be willing to bet we'll beat it come Dapper.

---

### Post by jdong on 2005-12-14
Release dates are huge spikes in forum traffic -- we've come close to reaching max capacity historically on those days.

---

### Post by xequence on 2005-12-14
[QUOTE=jdong]Release dates are huge spikes in forum traffic -- we've come close to reaching max capacity historically on those days.[/QUOTE]

In theory, how many people can be online at once until the server crashes or something?

---

### Post by gord on 2005-12-14
1501?

---

### Post by jdong on 2005-12-14
[QUOTE=xequence]In theory, how many people can be online at once until the server crashes or something?[/QUOTE]
Umm, 1500 will slow down the server to a point where it becomes unacceptably slow for most tasks.

We are looking into ways to expand our capacity though.


Ubuntu-geek can get you more detailed info / graphs on this subject.

---

### Post by curuxz on 2005-12-14
Can people lend you use of their servers for release days when it gets maxed out, a kinda temp cluster system for the forums? I would be willing to lend mine.

---

### Post by jdong on 2005-12-14
We currently do not have the infrastructure for clustering or anything like that. We have discussed separating the database from the web server and such similar ideas, though for now continuing to upgrade forum hardware will keep up with demands.

---

### Post by majikstreet on 2005-12-14
It seems pretty slow right now...

---

### Post by jdong on 2005-12-14
Not from here... probably somewhere on your side.

Server load average is normal (2-3), I can't check traffic, but it looks good on my end.

---

