---
title: "2.6.33 / Sabayon / BFS"
date: 2010-03-26
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Shibblet on 2010-03-26
Looks like the BFS is included in the new Sabayon 5.2 kernel.  Is this going to make an appearance into Lucid?  And if not, is there going to be any way to add it in?

---

### Post by exploder on 2010-03-26
The PCLinuxOS betas also come with the bfs kernel, it's quick!

---

### Post by juancarlospaco on 2010-03-26
[This]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breadth-first_search") or BTRFS ?

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2010-03-26
[This actually.]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brain_****_Scheduler")

And I apologize in advance for anyone who gets offended by the use of language.  Con Kolivas named it, not me.

---

### Post by falconindy on 2010-03-26
BFS will never make it into mainline.

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2010-03-26
> **falconindy said:**
> BFS will never make it into mainline.

I've heard that it's too radical.  But Sabayon has adopted it, and apparently PCLinuxOS is working their Beta with it.  

Any reason Ubuntu won't use it, or at least have a downloadable Kernel patched with it?

---

### Post by foxmulder881 on 2010-03-26
I see no reason why Ubuntu would adopt it. If it did choose to move away from ext4, btrfs would be preference I'd imagine. But even that would only be an install option and not the default choice.

---

### Post by koleoptero on 2010-03-26
> **Shibblet said:**
> [This actually.]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brain_****_Scheduler")

And I apologize in advance for anyone who gets offended by the use of language.  Con Kolivas named it, not me.

The UF censored the URL :lolflag: [http://tiny.cc/neb2w](http://tiny.cc/neb2w) for those that talk about filesystems :P

---

### Post by falconindy on 2010-03-26
> **foxmulder881 said:**
> I see no reason why Ubuntu would adopt it. If it did choose to move away from ext4, btrfs would be preference I'd imagine. But even that would only be an install option and not the default choice.
Just because it has 'FS' in the acronym does not make it a filesystem. BFS is a deadline CPU scheduler that replaces the kernel's default (fair-queuing, i believe) scheduler. The creator, Con Kolivas, wrote and maintains a patchset dedicated to improving desktop interactivity.

@Shibblet: If I had to guess, I'd say that Ubuntu aims to maintain some level of stability and sanity in their distro in an effort to cater to the widest audience. In line with that, patching the kernel with unsupported code doesn't really seem like the thing to do. BFS doesn't prove to be beneficial for everyone, either.

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2010-03-27
> **falconindy said:**
> @Shibblet: If I had to guess, I'd say that Ubuntu aims to maintain some level of stability and sanity in their distro in an effort to cater to the widest audience.
Like Microsoft?  LOL, J/K

> **falconindy said:**
> In line with that, patching the kernel with unsupported code doesn't really seem like the thing to do. BFS doesn't prove to be beneficial for everyone, either.
From what I've been reading, BFS is showing 60-90% performance increases.

From what I understand, it's great for people who have 16 or less CPU cores.  Which would be Ubuntu's main target audience.  This could put Linux back on the top of the pack, for kernel speed.

---

### Post by phrostbyte on 2010-03-27
> **Shibblet said:**
> 
From what I've been reading, BFS is showing 60-90% performance increases.

What testing methodology that led to this conclusion?

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2010-03-27
> **phrostbyte said:**
> What testing methodology that led to this conclusion?

[http://ck.kolivas.org/patches/bfs/bfs-faq.txt](http://ck.kolivas.org/patches/bfs/bfs-faq.txt)

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-03-28
I am using Lucid with the CK patchset. I plan on doing some real testing soon, but it seems very responsive. I am running a system update right now and I have had no slow downs. I am really interesting in how Con is championing the desktop performance in Linux. He seems like a cool guy.

The PPA I used is for Lucid, and it contains a CK patch for each main Ubuntu Kernel such as Generic, Preempt, and Server. I am using generic since I am on a laptop and do not need 1000hz tick.

[https://launchpad.net/~chogydan/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~chogydan/+archive/ppa)

---

