---
title: "Ubuntu Have more software, how come?"
date: 2010-01-09
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Jestersage on 2010-01-09
Out of all distributions, I notice that Ubuntu/Debian (mainly due to Ubuntu) have most software available, especially in terms of FOSS. While it is understandable why most propreity software (especially those for server stuff) is written for SuSE/Fedora, why is FOSS mostly vaialble in Ubuntu but not the other way around?

---

### Post by Warpnow on 2010-01-09
They all have basically the same software base...

Ubuntu does have one of the larger repositories though for easy installation.

---

### Post by Redache on 2010-01-09
Ubuntu and Debian have more Package Maintainers, although I haven't really noticed any shortage of software in Fedora's Repos.

Debian has a very strict FOSS policy which is why you might see that they have more FOSS software, Fedora also has a strict FOSS policy so there should be no real difference between both distributions with regards to how Open Source their repos are.

I also think you mean Red Hat when you said Fedora, which isn't quite the same. Fedora is the bleeding edge version of Red Hat that is distributed freely, Red Hat is built from stable Fedora. Fedora is a place to try out new technologies and then integrating them back into Red Hat.

---

### Post by Jestersage on 2010-01-09
> **Redache said:**
> 
I also think you mean Red Hat when you said Fedora, which isn't quite the same. Fedora is the bleeding edge version of Red Hat that is distributed freely, Red Hat is built from stable Fedora. Fedora is a place to try out new technologies and then integrating them back into Red Hat.

And when I say Fedora, I also actually include Red Hat, SuSE, and openSuSE.

The reason I said is that, for example, openShot, one of the best video editor (in a way), is ony avaialble for Deb. Granted, one can use alien, but the focus upon Ubuntu make me feel that there are less softwares with simplify installations avaiable for the other distros.

---

### Post by Warpnow on 2010-01-09
Openshot is available for all linux distributions. It is simply only supplied in binary form by the developers for ubuntu prepackaged. I would imagine this is for many reasons. First, there are alot more users. Often times the deb files up for download on project pages were generated by users.

Nothing stops a fedora or suse user form downloading the source and compiling openshot.

---

