---
title: "U.S. Lawmakers renew push for &quot;rogue websites&quot; bill"
date: 2011-04-04
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Sporkman on 2011-04-04
> WASHINGTON (Reuters) – A bipartisan group of lawmakers from both chambers of Congress on Monday vowed to pass legislation giving the U.S. Justice Department new authority to go after foreign and domestic websites that sell pirated music and movies and counterfeit goods...

[http://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20110404/wr_nm/us_usa_trade_websites#mwpphu-container](http://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20110404/wr_nm/us_usa_trade_websites#mwpphu-container)

---

### Post by handy on 2011-04-04
**Too few people appreciate that only a small percentage of what is pirated would have ever been paid for by the pirate under ANY circumstances!**

The losses to business that they talk about are complete rubbish.

As usual I expect that there is more to this than meets the eye.

Though I too often give people in administration credit for having more intelligence than they actually have.

---

### Post by bvtest on 2011-04-05
Bills like these may claim to have good intent but their true purposes are far different

---

### Post by Zerocool Djx on 2011-04-05
Maybe if "artists" not produce crap most of the time and try to steal peoples money, then people would be more likely to pay for things. Movies still are decent, and I see them at the theaters. But, like for the most part 95% of all major artist music releases in the last decade have been crap. You couldn't pay me to listen to it. The fact that I am willing to give it a go and listen to it for free and am able to give an honest opinion on it after is a service I should charge for. People say that Napster was the downfall of music, please.. it's more like the other way around. How many CD's did you buy that had like 1 or 2 good songs on it then the rest of the album was crap. Record companies had this coming. Only CD that actually was well thought out on every track in the last 10 years was Eminem's Recovery album. I am sure that there is a lot of minor artists that have good quality music, but unfortunately were in that lingo period where the net is slowly being able fro local artists to promote themselves. I just hope that those people speak up soon. Otherwise, where going to have more crap songs like "Friday" come out. 

I dunno,.. just don't try to spoon feed me crap and you may get a buck or two..

---

### Post by Sporkman on 2011-04-05
> **Zerocool Djx said:**
> Otherwise, where going to have more crap songs like "Friday" come out.

FRIY-DAY FRIY-DAY
Kicking it on FRIY-DAY
Everybody's looking towards the WEEEKEND WEEEKEND
Partying partying (yeah!)
Partying partying (yeah!)
Fun fun fun fun
Looking forward to the weekend

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CD2LRROpph0](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CD2LRROpph0)

---

### Post by Darth Penguin on 2011-04-05
The people pirating would most likely not be able to afford or would not pay for what they are pirating. It's easy to blame loss of revenue on piracy and not policing the world with laws to enforce and wars to fight that cost trillions to tax payers. Blame piracy all you want, it's the government wrecking the economy.

---

### Post by donkyhotay on 2011-04-05
> **Zerocool Djx said:**
> Maybe if "artists" not produce crap most of the time and try to steal peoples money, then people would be more likely to pay for things. Movies still are decent, and I see them at the theaters. But, like for the most part 95% of all major artist music releases in the last decade have been crap. You couldn't pay me to listen to it. The fact that I am willing to give it a go and listen to it for free and am able to give an honest opinion on it after is a service I should charge for. People say that Napster was the downfall of music, please.. it's more like the other way around. How many CD's did you buy that had like 1 or 2 good songs on it then the rest of the album was crap. Record companies had this coming. Only CD that actually was well thought out on every track in the last 10 years was Eminem's Recovery album. I am sure that there is a lot of minor artists that have good quality music, but unfortunately were in that lingo period where the net is slowly being able fro local artists to promote themselves. I just hope that those people speak up soon. Otherwise, where going to have more crap songs like "Friday" come out. 

Here is [good example](http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2011/03/bittorrent/#). There is no way that movie is worth more then avatar.

---

### Post by Sporkman on 2011-04-05
> **donkyhotay said:**
> Here is [good example](http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2011/03/bittorrent/#).

Wow, that is scary...

---

### Post by sydbat on 2011-04-05
[IMG]http://www.sapientum.com/Team%20America%20Title.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by kostageas on 2011-04-05
Oh my god!!  We need to stop piracy, it's just killing the musicians and actors.  They're going hungry!!

Seriously.  What. The. F*ck.

---

