---
title: "10.10 Netbook Edition missing the point?"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by zeus123 on 2010-10-11
I never moan, or pull my face or be ungrateful towards other peoples efforts but i'm just gonna have to open my mouth with regard to Ubuntu 10.10 Netbook Remix. 

Now I am up and running I start to explore the new sidebar. Its awful! I could go on about the bits I dont like about it but thats just a waste of time. My point is that its a back peddle from 10.04 and I dont believe its a familiarity issue. Clicking on the Ubuntu logo in the top left is a nice feature, but only if you could edit the icons you are presented.... maybe you can? I cant find how.

My biggest annoyance with the new side bar is that it never goes away! Thats no problem for websites like Google, but Facebook for example doesn't fit in the remaining screen! You have to sidescroll to view the full page. Baring in mind most websites are configured for 1024 on the x-axis it's plain ridiculous that Ubuntu only allows you to have less than this. 

The sidebar also interferes with the Ubunutu interface itself. ie, click on files and folders and the list of shortcuts dont fit on the bar at the top resulting in the user not being able to click on the icon which I assume is offscreen giving the option to browse from the top as opposed to from the Home folder. So you have to click on Pictures and then go to the top. 

I also had a small nightmare with my mobile broadband dongle.... though on second attempt all was ok. I plugged in my dongle and went through the usual setup steps only to find it didn't work. Dont ask how but Ubuntu formatted the dongle and left me without the internet! If it wasn't for my windows desktop which I use for backup using raid drives id be stuffed. From the software that the dongle installs I was able to return the dongle to factory.

In summary, im quite unhappy with the new sidebar. I really want the 10.10 mechanics but i'm gonna have to go back to 10.04 because the sidebar is a pain is the ****.
Netbook need to be kept quick and simple and should concentrate on the net features!

---

### Post by wamukota on 2010-10-11
I fully agree with your posting.

I wonder how I can make the launcher auto-hide.  If it is a no go then I see no reason to use the UNR 10:10.  I'll be better off running Lubuntu then for instance.

Hope somebody can tell us how to set the launcher to auto-hide.

---

### Post by CoolJohnB on 2010-10-11
I use the desktop edition on my notebook and find it very good, works very well, maybe you could try the desktop edition?

---

### Post by andymorton on 2010-10-11
As far as I'm aware the only difference between the netbook and desktop editions is the GUI. Under the hood they're both the same. So if you don't like the Unity interface just change to the Desktop Edition on the log in screen.

andy :)

---

### Post by wamukota on 2010-10-11
> **andymorton said:**
> As far as I'm aware the only difference between the netbook and desktop editions is the GUI.
andy :)
I'll first try the UNR a bit longer as I have the desktop ed. GUI as a fallback.

Txs for the info

---

### Post by Megaptera on 2010-10-11
I was put off by the same issue so for the moment:
On my laptop I use Ubuntu desktop with panels auto-hiding and keyboard shortcuts to launch my most used apps.

---

### Post by Locke2053 on 2010-10-11
I agree with everyone here. Unity is an impressive prototype, but it is not ready to be the default interface. It is hard to configure, it robs precious screen space on netbooks, and more importantly it is unusable with many java apps because the menus are incompatible. 

I had to install ubuntu-desktop on my netbook. The old netbook GUI worked great, though. It had none of the flaws of Unity. As slick as Unity is, it should not be the default until all of the usability flaws and bugs in this thread are addressed.

---

### Post by kumaryu on 2010-10-11
I'm afraid I have to agree with this whinge... I don't see the point of UNR.

I use a EEE PC 1001 with Maverick Desktop.

I do agree with UNR's UI idea that the screen is wide enough for launchers at the side... so I use Docky at the left-hand edge of the screen. Devilspie is used to position windows in their own workspaces and trim unwanted borders and window decorations.

---

### Post by Locke2053 on 2010-10-11
> **kumaryu said:**
> I do agree with UNR's UI idea that the screen is wide enough for launchers at the side

Out of curiosity: is this because you have a screen wider than the netbook standard of 1024px, or because you don't mind having to sidescroll on web pages?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-10-11
> **andymorton said:**
> As far as I'm aware the only difference between the netbook and desktop editions is the GUI. Under the hood they're both the same. So if you don't like the Unity interface just change to the Desktop Edition on the log in screen.

andy :)

It seems the main point/focus of UNR is the interface. I am not aware of any kernel or other optimizations over a standard install.

Personally I find most netbooks slightly underpowered and personally I prefer a minimal install and XFCE or Fluxbox. YMMV.

---

### Post by kumaryu on 2010-10-11
> **Locke2053 said:**
> Out of curiosity: is this because you have a screen wider than the netbook standard of 1024px, or because you don't mind having to sidescroll on web pages?

Because the horizontal resolution allows full width of most documents to be displayed. Not so the vertical, hence the need to trim wherever possible.

---

### Post by OldSmoky2 on 2010-10-11
I love using Ubuntu but I have to agree with much of this, too. I installed it on my Toshiba NB205 last night and really thought it was a step back from 10.04 Netbook. The biggest issue I had was the lack of configuration and preference options. There is no way that I could find to add anything to the panel. Right-clicking there does nothing. And what happened to the System Preferences and Administration tools.... couldn't find most of them anywhere. Having those kinds of options is pretty central to the attractiveness of Ubuntu and Linux. If someone likes the way 10.10 Netbook comes, fine. But why take away options from people who want some choices and want the ability to fully control their system?

---

### Post by deserthowler on 2010-10-11
I found the whole Netbook Remix to be a complete disaster.  I downloaded 10.10 netbook and tried it on my laptop.  The live CD didn't work. :mad: OH, Well ...

I decided to install it on my desktop computer which is now running Ubuntu 10.10.  No luck with live CD so decided to try installing to a blank hard drive.  That worked OK.

I came to reboot and I got the screen, the left bar and the top bar, with nothing on them.  I estimated where the signout button should be and got the logout menu.  I logged out and logged in again to the Gnome Ubuntu Desktop.  This worked fine.

Did updates and logged out ... logged in again to the netbook GUI.  No luck again.

Glad I didn't install it on my notebook, not a netbook.  Sheesh.  is the GUI so designed it will only work on netbooks? :confused:

Is it true that Ubuntu is using MicroSoft code?  It sure seems that way. :(

Earl

---

### Post by FMJammo on 2010-10-11
I have to agree with most of people here too. I was wayyyyy prefering tabbed UI found in 10.04 over the ''impossible-to-hide-or-setup to my taste'' launch dock. It also waste alot of side screen space. In windows, we could add something like that, its called Yahoo widgets with side launch dock witch can be set auto-hide. Why not in UNR?

Is there a way to roll back? I guess no. So we all get stuck with that. Oh, i could re-install 10.04 from CD...

Sorry if you think i am rude, but i am a bit frustrated.

---

### Post by FMJammo on 2010-10-11
> **FMJammo said:**
> I have to agree with most of people here too. I was wayyyyy prefering tabbed UI found in 10.04 over the ''impossible-to-hide-or-setup to my taste'' launch dock. It also waste alot of side screen space. In windows, we could add something like that, its called Yahoo widgets with side launch dock witch can be set auto-hide. Why not in UNR?

Is there a way to roll back? I guess no. So we all get stuck with that. Oh, i could re-install 10.04 from CD...

Sorry if you think i am rude, but i am a bit frustrated.

Reply to myself...Don't panic. Log off, then relog with option:''Ubuntu Netbook edition 2D'' and you will get your lovely tabbed 10.04 style UI with visual improvements! You can also select desktop edition if you want. 

And for Unity auto-hide, someone is probably woring on it right now, so, check the forums for a patch or mod or something.

Sorry...  :)

---

### Post by OldSmoky2 on 2010-10-12
And another "reply to myself"... So after my frustration last night (see above) I tried out Kubuntu Netbook. But I found it to be slow and could not get sound working... So tonight I tried Ubuntu 10.10 Netbook again, using a few tips I found in here - no restricted drivers in install and no auto login. The install went much better and it was a faster boot, though still, curiously, it takes about twice as long to boot as 10.04 did. I played around with it for a while and found most of the System>Preferences and Administration tools in the Applications menu (maybe just a bad install all-around last night?). But it still seems slow and more resource-hungry than 10.04 Netbook. So after a while I just re-booted into the Desktop Edition, which ran a lot snappier than Unity. So I think I will keep it for now and just use that. I'm not a techie, so maybe I don't know what I'm talking about, but it seems Mutter might be slowing things down. Just a guess, though, after switching to Desktop Edition. I will say I really like the appearance upgrades - I guess mainly that's due to the new Ubuntu Font, which is very, very nice. And you get to keep that with the Desktop Edition, though you give up some screen space on top. But I put the bottom panel on auto-hide, so overall I'm not losing much more space than the Unity side panel took up. I really think they should take Administration and Preferences tools out of the Applications menu though and put them in their own launcher in the Unity panel for people who want to use that.

---

### Post by yakinikku on 2010-10-12
> **FMJammo said:**
> Reply to myself...Don't panic. Log off, then relog with option:''Ubuntu Netbook edition 2D'' and you will get your lovely tabbed 10.04 style UI with visual improvements! You can also select desktop edition if you want. 

And for Unity auto-hide, someone is probably woring on it right now, so, check the forums for a patch or mod or something.

Sorry...  :)

i tried this and my 2D ui is all screwed up.  the panel bars appear and nothing is lined up.  any ideas how to fix it?

---

### Post by JonnJack on 2010-10-12
Have to agree with all the other posters, 10.10 Netbook Remix is a MASSIVE step backwards in terms of usable. Not at all happy with the loss of screen real-estate which is at a premium anyways with a netbook, and then to have NO configuration option for that silly launcher bar just smack too much of the "we know what's good for you" type thinking that usually is Microsoft's forte. 

Also was a pain to install in the first place, had problems with making a USB key until that was resolved by what was obviously a rush job of updating the utility to makes USB keys.

Will probably format completely (YAH! for external HDD's so I still have my music, movies, docs, etc...) and reload 10.04. That was a joy to use, easy to work with and configure, light on the resources and as crash-proof as any OS I've ever used in the last 25 years. On the other hand 10.10 hard-locked on me three times in less than an hour...

---

### Post by Linux BASHer on 2010-10-12
So it seems I'm not alone in my impressions. I put this on an SD card and booted it up on my netbook to try (not without some difficulties, but I'll not blame that on Ubuntu).

I like the look of the top-bar, being a Mac user and finding a universal menu bar far more efficient than the usual. And the bar to the left feels a little bit like the dock. But, I usually run my netbook on XUbuntu, with only one panel at the bottom, on auto-hide, with a minimalist (but still useful) GUI, so I can take full advantage of my screen real estate.

First thing I tried to do is accommodate the left "app bar" to autohide, but I couldn't find any option to do so. In fact, as mentioned here, I can't find *any* general GUI settings. To top it off, Mutter quit on me on my first try. I have high hopes for this edition one day, but it looks to me like it's not ready for prime time yet.

BTW, are there really *no* GUI customization options present in this edition (or am I just having trouble finding them)??

---

### Post by awesomewin on 2010-10-12
I agree with many of the complaints in this thread.

I upgraded my netbook to 10.10 yesterday and was first impressed by the sleek new GUI. It looks great and a lot of the functionality is fantastic; I particularly like how it handles grouping of multiple windows and allowing you to "zoom out" getting an overview of each window of a given program by clicking its icon.

I like the idea of the global menu and I suppose the idea is to save vertical screen space by having the "File, Edit, View" etc menus next to the close/minimize/maximize buttons. How can firefox, which is bundled with the install, not do it like that? The file manager (which I admittedly spent quite a lot of time searching for, lol) works perfect with this, but two of my most frequently used programs do not, namely Chromium and Kate.

Alt+f2? I'm just gonna end my post here. I'm going to try logging out and see how the desktop GUI works on my netbook, as some of you suggested.

I look forward to future improvements to unity.

---

### Post by Richipedia on 2010-10-12
I have to agree. Unity is simply not ready, which is a shame; as a proof-of-concept it's great and shows real promise, but as a shipping product it's a dismal failure. A lot of the performance issues I've been experiencing simply disappear when using the regular GNOME GUI.

---

### Post by adxgrave on 2010-10-12
I'm really frustrated. Is there any proven way to get back the good old 10.04 interface without breaking anything? This unity thing is many steps backward, definitely not moving forward of any kind. It's not even great on eye candy if that's what the dev focus on. Lucid UNR look better with icons that look like a layer on top of the wallpaper. It has better showmanship than the hollow and empty purple space in 10.10, not even to mention the new sidebar. Gimme a break, single application icon? What's wrong with categories menu? With lucid, it maximize the application windows automatically but now the unable-to-hide sidebar steal the space back? WTF?

This whole 10.10 is counter productive and I'm staying with lucid. Please post a link if someone know how to install maverick and still using lucid interface WITHOUT breaking anything and run as fast, stable and top-notch as before. Sigh..

---

### Post by gcday on 2010-10-12
> **zeus123 said:**
> I never moan, or pull my face or be ungrateful towards other peoples efforts but i'm just gonna have to open my mouth with regard to Ubuntu 10.10 Netbook Remix. 

Now I am up and running I start to explore the new sidebar. Its awful! I could go on about the bits I dont like about it but thats just a waste of time. My point is that its a back peddle from 10.04 and I dont believe its a familiarity issue. Clicking on the Ubuntu logo in the top left is a nice feature, but only if you could edit the icons you are presented.... maybe you can? I cant find how.

My biggest annoyance with the new side bar is that it never goes away! Thats no problem for websites like Google, but Facebook for example doesn't fit in the remaining screen! You have to sidescroll to view the full page. Baring in mind most websites are configured for 1024 on the x-axis it's plain ridiculous that Ubuntu only allows you to have less than this. 

The sidebar also interferes with the Ubunutu interface itself. ie, click on files and folders and the list of shortcuts dont fit on the bar at the top resulting in the user not being able to click on the icon which I assume is offscreen giving the option to browse from the top as opposed to from the Home folder. So you have to click on Pictures and then go to the top. 

I also had a small nightmare with my mobile broadband dongle.... though on second attempt all was ok. I plugged in my dongle and went through the usual setup steps only to find it didn't work. Dont ask how but Ubuntu formatted the dongle and left me without the internet! If it wasn't for my windows desktop which I use for backup using raid drives id be stuffed. From the software that the dongle installs I was able to return the dongle to factory.

In summary, im quite unhappy with the new sidebar. I really want the 10.10 mechanics but i'm gonna have to go back to 10.04 because the sidebar is a pain is the ****.
Netbook need to be kept quick and simple and should concentrate on the net features!

Yes yes! I managed to install it earlier and the first thing my other half says is "how do I make this dock disappear?" and then "why do I have to scroll in facebook?"

---

### Post by cal111 on 2010-10-12
Agree with most points - pretty fed up with the update and if anyone has instructions and links to downgrade then please let me know.

I loved 10.4 and didn't have any issues with it - Hopefully an update may address some the feedback in the near future.

---

### Post by zeus123 on 2010-10-12
I tried logging out to try to log back in using Netbook 2d but the option wasn't there.

I did get something similar to the 10.04 interface by installing (this is from memory! Im back on 10.04)
netbook-launcher-efl and something else. I suppose try netbook-launcher-efl first and go from there.

Dont uninstall unity whatever you do. I ended up with a white screen no matter what I tried afterwards. I just formatted and went back to the live USB.

Ubuntu-netbook package on 10.04 is 2.024 and on 10.10 its 2.034. Netbook 2d looks slightly different to 10.04 and I think this might be why? I cant get to 2.024 from 10.10.

I have a dud hdd at the moment in my netbook so im happy to run 10.04 from my usb stick for the time being, til samsung give me an rma (a month so far waiting with a hdd full of critical smart errors!)

There are obviously a lot of people who feel the same about 10.10 netbook edition. I suppose in my case this will just be an update I wont make for the first time in my 4.5 years with Ubuntu. *I still love Ubuntu*. Please, please, please Canonical dont fix Unity by making it auto hide! It wont be a solution imo. I just want easy links to my programs, apps and services. Inc nautilus! I first tried Linux because I heard it is fully customisable and I yearned for an interface like that of 10.04 netbook edition. 10.04 gave that out of the box.

---

### Post by m2digital on 2010-10-12
I've been happily using 10.04 for the past many months.  I got the bright idea to upgrade to 10.10 and am very displeased.  I don't like the new interface at all.  10.04's is much more suited to a Netbook.  Managing various open applications in 10.10 is a pain as well.

The little icons in the sidebar seem cool in concept, but become very cumbersome when trying to switch between applications.  Also, why System settings are in the Applications menu is a mystery to me.

10.10 broke my iPhone tethering ability through Bluetooth and USB.  I will be rolling back to 10.04 tonight.  This release definitely isn't for me.  I will proceed with caution next time there is another release.  I really regret breaking a very good thing for 10.10.

---

### Post by Baga255 on 2010-10-12
> **zeus123 said:**
> I tried logging out to try to log back in using Netbook 2d but the option wasn't there.

I did get something similar to the 10.04 interface by installing (this is from memory! Im back on 10.04)
netbook-launcher-efl and something else. I suppose try netbook-launcher-efl first and go from there.

Dont uninstall unity whatever you do. I ended up with a white screen no matter what I tried afterwards. I just formatted and went back to the live USB.

Ubuntu-netbook package on 10.04 is 2.024 and on 10.10 its 2.034. Netbook 2d looks slightly different to 10.04 and I think this might be why? I cant get to 2.024 from 10.10.

I have a dud hdd at the moment in my netbook so im happy to run 10.04 from my usb stick for the time being, til samsung give me an rma (a month so far waiting with a hdd full of critical smart errors!)

There are obviously a lot of people who feel the same about 10.10 netbook edition. I suppose in my case this will just be an update I wont make for the first time in my 4.5 years with Ubuntu. *I still love Ubuntu*. Please, please, please Canonical dont fix Unity by making it auto hide! It wont be a solution imo. I just want easy links to my programs, apps and services. Inc nautilus! I first tried Linux because I heard it is fully customisable and I yearned for an interface like that of 10.04 netbook edition. 10.04 gave that out of the box.

I installed the netbook-launcher-efl on 10.10 but alongside the old 10.04 look I have the taskbars of the desktop edition. As though you put the netbook interface into the desktop interface. Any way I could get rid of desktop-edition taskbars?

---

### Post by Sean888 on 2010-10-13
Thank you for the effort and hard work put into 10.10 but i think it is a big step backwards so i think i will be reinstalling 10.04 tonight, ill wait for 11.04 to see if that has a better UI

---

### Post by Lai1611 on 2010-10-13
Im using the Netbookedition since 8.10 on my eeePC 901.
since 9.04 im using the Netbookediton on my desktop, with 1600x1200 resolution because this way i get most out of the schreensize. (who needs eyecandy when you can have workspace instead?)

the 10.10 Netbookremix uses the double screenspace on 1600x1200 than the normal edition!

this is missing the point by more than a mile ...

---

### Post by wowshailen on 2010-10-13
> **Sean888 said:**
> Thank you for the effort and hard work put into 10.10 but i think it is a big step backwards so i think i will be reinstalling 10.04 tonight, ill wait for 11.04 to see if that has a better UI

I am going back to 10.04 too.

---

### Post by FatherDale on 2010-10-13
> **wowshailen said:**
> I am going back to 10.04 too.

I'm afraid I'm going to have to do the same. And won't be "upgrading" my other lappy. I can't believe they intentionally went from an interface that allowed me to put every app I use on a daily basis on the 'front page' to one that requires me to click all over the screen after finding which icon does what. This is just... not an improvement

---

### Post by SushiR on 2010-10-13
I agree with all of you. Unity is slow, it's not at all customizable and it isn't intuitive at all. I don't understand why they shipped 10.10 with Unity. This is their worst decision. Ever!

---

### Post by schenckel on 2010-10-13
i'll be going back to 10.04 too... sad, though.

---

### Post by wamukota on 2010-10-13
D/L 10.04 netbook now. Will replace 10:10 UNR

---

### Post by maharaja2 on 2010-10-13
Do you need to make fresh install, or there is some other way to downgrade to 10.04?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-10-13
> **andymorton said:**
> As far as I'm aware the only difference between the netbook and desktop editions is the GUI. Under the hood they're both the same. So if you don't like the Unity interface just change to the Desktop Edition on the log in screen.

andy :)

> **maharaja2 said:**
> Do you need to make fresh install, or there is some other way to downgrade to 10.04?

No way to downgrade, you will have to do a fresh install.

---

### Post by JonnJack on 2010-10-13
I tried, I really, really tried to like 10.10. Spent six+ hours playing with it yesterday.  
The Unity interface has potential, a lot of potential, but not being able to hide it was the biggest deal-breaker. And no configuration options at all? Huh?

And what's with not being able to configure the clock? I work in a hospital, we use the 24hr clock and I can't set what is supposed to be a bleeding edge OS to use 24hr time? What's up with that?

Sound sputters, videos are jerky, it takes almost 2 full minutes to open up my OpenOffice docs now.... 

There's a format in my Acer Aspire's future this evening.

---

### Post by Reileigh on 2010-10-13
I agree, the performance is horrid and the basic operation works like a homeless santa. After I had switched to back to normal ubuntu mode, the menu-lag stopped.

People don't seem to realize that the old netbook launcher worked well, and most don't want to have to reinstall 10.04 just for a faulty, ignant launcher that was tossed at us like a dirty wizard.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-10-13
> **Reileigh said:**
> People don't seem to realize that the old netbook launcher worked well, and most don't want to have to reinstall 10.04 just for a faulty, ignant launcher that was tossed at us like a dirty wizard.

Although I understand your sentiment, no one forced you to upgrade.

If 10.04 (LTS) is working you should at a minimum boot 10.10 live to test it out and only upgrade if there is some fix or feature you need.

Another option that works well, wait a month before you upgrade. That gives a release a little time to have the major bugs worked out.

Last, did you file a bug report ?

With all that in mind, on my netbook I prefer xubuntu or lubuntu.

---

### Post by Scorchgid on 2010-10-13
God your all gonna hate me because i kind of like it ><
I don't like the fact though that compared to 10.4 its slow, and an auto hide option would be nice, but i myself don't use many applications on Ubuntu so i can see the disadvantages.

However using the application and the document button way of opening things is incredibly frustrating. It takes too long for Ubuntu to boot them up as well as the Ubuntu button, thats useless its supposed to be a method of a quick start. it does nothing of the sort.

I make it sound like i hate it now. The reason i like it is because of the GUI, I like the design, it should however be faster which i'm sure is possible.

---

### Post by Andy06 on 2010-10-14
I'm not sure if you guys have noticed but in MAC OS X the dock can be docked to the left side as well, it then becomes 2D and looks exactly like Unity.

So the universal menu bar combined with the beige radiance theme combined with this dock like Unity is really begging for a lawsuit. Any one of those changes by itself would probably be ok but all 3 and that too by default is perhaps a bit brash?

Personally, I think the whole idea of wanting to change the paradigm of the desktop in UNR is flawed. All that is needed is slight tweaking and optimisation of the regular GNOME desktop. Maximus etc were along the right path, now we have this......I just can't find a good reason to use UNR when the regular releases work just fine

---

### Post by FatherDale on 2010-10-14
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> Although I understand your sentiment, no one forced you to upgrade.



No one forces me to use Ubuntu at all. But I do, and I've upgraded every six months for the last five years -- and enjoyed it immensely. The new UI sucks the joy right out of it, though. It is so much less useful than its predecessor that I can't get my mind around the need for change. Unlike the change from Pidgin to Empathy, though, I can't figure out a way to undo it without re-imaging, and this makes me sad.

---

### Post by HonzaPokorny on 2010-10-14
Personally, I quite enjoy the Unity launcher. It's not the best thing in the world (e.g. my wife couldn't figure it out), but it's not that bad either. 

I still think 10.10 is a major screw-up though. 10.04 was **really** fast. Switching windows, opening applications, just bang, bang... But now, it's like I'm running Vista on this tiny little netbook. Seriously, what went wrong? 

When I look at the System monitor, it's this thing called ```
mutter
```. It's that thing that makes your applications behave like they are on a Mac (top bar always displays the focused app's context menu). 100MB on the RAM? Really?

On 10.04, I was able to run Eclipse **and** the Android Emulator. I was nearing 1GB on used RAM, but it was still very quick and responsive. 

**Bottom line:**

Unity is a half-baked product.

---

### Post by cal111 on 2010-10-14
So I've decided to re-install with 10.04. As I've stopped bothering using my netbook with 10.10

Where's the best place to download 10.04? Any links?

...time to start backing everything up

---

### Post by iclestu on 2010-10-14
hmmmm - Now you guys got me wondering. I just installed 10.10 on my netbook. I quite like it but I came from windows xp.

I therefore do not have a basis for comparison. Now would be the time for me to switch to 10.4 before i start installing/customising the hell out of it but really, i do quite like it as is.

I like the eye-candy of that sidebar. (are the buttons customisable?).

Hmmm  - is it just the case that the people who dislike it feel more motivated to comment and that there is a majority of ppl who do like it but feel less strongly happily typing away on thier netbooks and not commenting on the forums? 

Does **anyone** like 10.10 better than 10.4?

---

### Post by wamukota on 2010-10-14
> **cal111 said:**
> So I've decided to re-install with 10.04. As I've stopped bothering using my netbook with 10.10

Where's the best place to download 10.04? Any links?

...time to start backing everything up

Try [http://ubuntu.rave.org/]("http://ubuntu.rave.org/")

---

### Post by wamukota on 2010-10-14
> **iclestu said:**
> I therefore do not have a basis for comparison. Now would be the time for me to switch to 10.4 before i start installing/customising the hell out of it but really, i do quite like it as is.

I like the eye-candy of that sidebar. (are the buttons customisable?).

No, and they do not auto-hide either, so you are stuck with a width of less than 1024px

> **iclestu said:**
> Hmmm  - is it just the case that the people who dislike it feel more motivated to comment and that there is a majority of ppl who do like it but feel less strongly happily typing away on thier netbooks and not commenting on the forums? 

Does **anyone** like 10.10 better than 10.4?

All those who used 10.04UNR and can compare, say that the 10.10UNR is a failure - at least the Unity is.

If possible, go for the 10.04LTS Netbook remix. You will not regret it. Download it from [http://ubuntu.rave.org/lucid/]("http://ubuntu.rave.org/lucid/")

---

### Post by CoreyB. on 2010-10-14
> **cal111 said:**
> So I've decided to re-install with 10.04. As I've stopped bothering using my netbook with 10.10

Where's the best place to download 10.04? Any links?

...time to start backing everything up

Direct link.

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/10.04.1/ubuntu-10.04-netbook-i386.iso]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/10.04.1/ubuntu-10.04-netbook-i386.iso")

---

### Post by Drewbladez on 2010-10-15
Well did I ever choose a crappy launch to choose to finally load linux. Got into it a few weeks ago and was getting a Netbook. Loaded this 10.10 up and well... I've figured a few things out, it needs A LOT of work. 

I was looking forward to the customizability but its just not there with this. Still works well and a great starting point for a new linux user... got a lot to learn but here's what I've learned of the side bar...

> **Drewbladez said:**
> This netbook version is wierd, took me awhile to figure this out and it turns out it's not possible w/all applications, IE opera. but once you have an app open, right click on it in the launcher bar and select keep in launcher.

Glad to see I'm not the only 10.10 netbook guy giving this a go on my Acer Aspire One. You? 

Anyone else out there using this? lets get some support!

---

### Post by Awareness on 2010-10-15
not really helpful, but +1

also, it moves kinda slow on my eeepc 901. All interfaces from ubuntu towards netbooks have failed from my pov. I give them a try in every version to give them a chance, but i end up turning off the netbook edition and just using the normal desktop...

bummer... maybe next one?

---

### Post by cal111 on 2010-10-15
> **CoreyB. said:**
> Direct link.

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/10.04.1/ubuntu-10.04-netbook-i386.iso](http://releases.ubuntu.com/10.04.1/ubuntu-10.04-netbook-i386.iso)

Thanks very much. 

Ah i forgot my mouse and wireless needs fixing on my hp mini when installing....agh.

---

### Post by schenckel on 2010-10-15
there where three things i really hated on 10.04 unr:
-you could not make any changes to the top panel
-the spacing of the indicator applet's icons where too huge
-evolution could not be minimized to the tray
i eventually got rid of all this problems after some time.... and
then i updated to 10.10 and it just sucks. it's slow, uses too much space, the things mentioned above are back again, it's non intuitive and so on.

maybe as a desktop interface or for touchscreens unity would be very nice, but why on earth on a slow and tiny netbook???

---

### Post by shaviro on 2010-10-15
I have to join in and say I really HATE the new Unity interface. I find it counterintuitive, difficult to use, and incredibly ugly.

On my desktop I just use the regular interface, and 10.10 is fine. But on my netbook, now that I have upgraded, I am forced to choose between Unity and the Gnome desktop which takes away valuable screen space on the top and bottom. I wish they had left the old interface as at least an alternative.

---

### Post by alphabeta23 on 2010-10-16
I'm back to 10.04 and HAPPY! I really gave Maverick a chance but every day I hated Unity more and more. I never missed a release since 5.04 but this time I guess I have to keep 10.04 for a long time on my netbook...

---

### Post by tomsimmons on 2010-10-16
Like a lot of people I find it hard to locate all the bits that we knew were in the old categories.

I would also like to be bale to hide the icon bar, a 901 just doesn't have the screen size to lose part of it.

However, at least WiFi works, on 10.04 it only seemed to last a day or so then need a complete reset and a lot of hoping.

So if someone can point me to a guaranteed one time fix for WiFi on 10.04, I'll be rolling back.


Tom

---

### Post by alphabeta23 on 2010-10-16
> **tomsimmons said:**
> Like a lot of people I find it hard to locate all the bits that we knew were in the old categories.

I would also like to be bale to hide the icon bar, a 901 just doesn't have the screen size to lose part of it.

However, at least WiFi works, on 10.04 it only seemed to last a day or so then need a complete reset and a lot of hoping.

So if someone can point me to a guaranteed one time fix for WiFi on 10.04, I'll be rolling back.


Tom
I have a 901 too and the trick was enabling "lucid proposed updates" in synaptic and installing the package "linux-backports-modules-wireless-lucid-generic".

---

### Post by tomsimmons on 2010-10-16
> **alphabeta23 said:**
> I have a 901 too and the trick was enabling "lucid proposed updates" in synaptic and installing the package "linux-backports-modules-wireless-lucid-generic".

How the dickens was working WiFi a proposed update?

I have to confess that it amazes me how often a new version of NBR is released where WiFi for this common chipset is broken again.

Tom

---

### Post by sandman652001 on 2010-10-16
I have a feeling that Unity is to netbook edition what vista was to windows, It's the first time that I'm disappointed by Ubuntu, I loved the old netbook edition launcher felt right at home in about 10 minutes and it was perfect for small screens, probably the best netbook interface that was out there!....Good god I'd rather use Xandros than Unity and I think that says it all! Unity is the most counter intuitive memory hogging piece of c... that I've ever seen!
Personally I'm back to 10.04 for my netbook and If Ubuntu insists on going down the Unity path I'll just have to find something else to run on my netbook

---

### Post by SushiR on 2010-10-16
> **shaviro said:**
> On my desktop I just use the regular interface, and 10.10 is fine. But on my netbook, now that I have upgraded, I am forced to choose between Unity and the Gnome desktop which takes away valuable screen space on the top and bottom. I wish they had left the old interface as at least an alternative.

When you're running Gnome, you can just remove one panel, and use maximus with window-picker-applet and the standard menu instead of the menu bar. Works like a charm, saves screen space, works with compiz, too.

---

### Post by peterowen on 2010-10-16
I agree with the gripe about the Unity Interface side-bar as it seems hard to configure and impossible to exclude from view - Just a shame it could not be configured with "AutoHide" for example!  

I've installed Opera as my main browser and the text does not fit the window too well - it all looked fine on the desktop edition.

I've also tried to install "Picasa" from Google to use as my main image viewer, but sadly it fails to install correctly, with no Icon to launch the programme being shown anywhere.  I can launch it from the Terminal Window OK but it fails to show slide-shows when that function is selected!

In most other respects the Netbook edition of Ubuntu 10.10 seems stable and relatively fast when installed on my Acer Aspire 5920 Lap-Top - I'm confident the improvements will keep coming, as Ubuntu just gets better and better with time.

---

### Post by pirlouis on 2010-10-16
Totally agree, Unity sucks big time. I got used to 10.4, but 10.10 is irrecuperable. It messes up some apps (like Vuze), but above all is is totally impractical, slow and below common sense. I've been using Ubuntu for four or five years and it's always met my needs more or less well. Now I'm getting as annoyed with it as I used to get with Windows and have the disagreeable impression the user is considered stupider and stupider on each release, at least with the netbook series. But maybe instead of UNR missing the point it's me? This conclusion leads me to the obvious decision of ditching this crappy netbook OS in search of something better.

---

### Post by bclintbe on 2010-10-16
I had the same problem with Java apps... can't adjust things, mouse and actual spot highlighted out of sync. This includes with the actual Sun Java. The ribbon down the side is taking up space, and the whole system is just too slow for me. Going back to 10.04 UNR. Much happier there.

---

### Post by tjeremiah on 2010-10-16
one guy here is right and that is many should of tested it first before fully upgrading. Overall though, I think Unity was a bust from the beginning. The team should of at least waited till 11.04 to drop the huge changes. Throughout the testing days, it was clear, many were going to dislike Unity.

---

### Post by Gonzalo_VC on 2010-10-16
I don't think this new 10.10 netbook version of Ubuntu is awful, but there's at least one big problem for me: now in "files and folders" I do not pre-see the "other" drive where the other OS is installed (my netbook is dual, boot, as you see).
How can I find it and ask to mount it!? Only the hard way of listing the /hd# drives and executing the mount command?!?
Any fancier ideas?

Thanks!

---

### Post by rocklobster217 on 2010-10-16
I'm really liking the new side panel, it definitely allows for a quicker and more enjoyable way to move around applications. 

What's important is here the developers are trying to create new ways of utilizing the netbook screen size, with the next generation of unity being even more sleek. 

On a bad note (to tie into the mood of this thread) my netbook does struggle to move up and down unity during heavy loads CPU will max out

---

### Post by drawkcab on 2010-10-16
I've ragged on Unity elsewhere but really it does come down to two things:

1.  You can't customize which is a huge disappointment.

2.  It's slow as hell on my eeepc 900a.

I'm ok with the general idea behind Unity but reject its current implementation.

I immediately went back to 10.04 which I've grown to love.  Hopefully the Aurora project will come through with something slick and/or Unity will be improved in 6 months.

---

### Post by Richipedia on 2010-10-17
I don't have a netbook, but I do have an ageing Dell laptop (Inspiron 1300) that I've been using Ubuntu Netbook Edition with since 9.04. I found 10.10 to be almost unbearably slow, but tried booting into the regular Gnome interface and all my performance issues went away. Unity's performance is shocking, which is a real shame as I like the concept of the side bar launcher.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-10-17
It's all well and good complaining about the problems you are having with Unity, but I don't see one report on the Unity bug list about slow performance with some makes of netbooks. 

Problems can't be solved if the devs don't know about them. You can report bugs at:

[bugs.launchpad.net/unity]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity")

---

### Post by DanaLou on 2010-10-21
Im new to Linux. Brand-spanking-new as of a few hours ago-JUST-installed Ubuntu on my net-book-new.

I was struggling with finding things using the unity interface, so I switched to the desktop "flavor"

Ahhhhhh. MUCH better :)

Seems to run just as zippy as the netbook (unity interface?) version, so Im a happy camper :D

---

### Post by JohnH on 2010-10-24
I have to agree that 10.10 is a disappointment. What I don't understand thought, is that on my Lenovo S10-3, the screen brightness and internal mic don't work - yet on the ubuntu 9.4 based Jolicloud 1.0 everything works fine!!!

I find the lack of configuration control HIGHLY frustrating; it reminds me of Mother Windows deciding what is best for me! I've persisted long enough so I will be going back to 10.4. At least I feel I have a measure of control with that and the graphics a sharper, brighter and better. Sheesh!

John

---

### Post by Steeperton on 2010-10-24
> **cariboo907 said:**
> It's all well and good complaining about the problems you are having with Unity, but I don't see one report on the Unity bug list about slow performance with some makes of netbooks. 

Problems can't be solved if the devs don't know about them. You can report bugs at:

[bugs.launchpad.net/unity]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity")

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mutter/+bug/657976](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mutter/+bug/657976)

---

### Post by Gonzalo_VC on 2010-10-24
> **JohnH said:**
> I have to agree that 10.10 is a disappointment. What I don't understand .... the screen brightness and internal mic don't work ...

I think Ubuntu is great. However I always advocated for a nice central control panel better organised. I have updated the netbook edition to 10.10 and missed a file manager in the unity menu... but managed to install something with Synaptic and could find the hda2 hard drive (other system and my documents there). In the desktop version, the upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04 missed the volume control on the task bar... quite confusing.
But since it is always improving, I hope the guys solve this issues soon.

---

### Post by symon1980 on 2010-10-27
haha. I started to think that the majority of Ubuntu users were moronic because I keep seeing praise for Unity....
Glad to see theres lots of people with the same opinions as mine here.....

and now Canonical want to make Unity DEFAULT on the Desktop for 11.04!!!!
what a ridiculous idea..........

Unity is Garbage in it's current state.... if Canonical want to be seen as a professional "engineering/Software development" company and not just a bunch of marketing guy's trying to pass themselves off that way.... then they should make damn well sure that the software they create does not get released into a final release until it is good and ready........ Unity was rushed and pushed out there incomplete, buggy, slow and featureless without much thought put in to the overall design of it and it's effect on productivity....

I see disaster with 11.04.... it is clear to me that canonical make bad decisions and are more concerened with the latest innovations rather than stable/functional/useability.....

don't mean to bash.... but it's true.... Consider it a constructive criticism Canonical....

---

### Post by UAA on 2010-11-03
I hope what happened will drive more users to test Alpha and Beta releases. It might have been a better situation if people check thing before it get released.

---

### Post by lifeform23 on 2010-11-03
I love Ubuntu.  I love using it and I love showing other people how to use it. Each upgrade has been a delight...until the 10.10 netbook upgrade.
This thread should be called 10.10 netbook edition, what's the point?
I just can think of a single reason to use the unity interface.  I also don't find it terribly attractive.
I keep thinking that I'm missing something...maybe I just don't get it.
My main problem is that the side panel is always there, taking up valuable space.
Just my two cents.  I'd be curious to see a user poll to see what the general opinion is about unity.  I have a hard believing that its all that popular

---

### Post by Nikojiro on 2010-11-05
I totally agree with most of what I read in this thread.

Unity is unusable in its present state.

Dock is not configurable, nor can it be hidden, and the default colors are downright ugly (those awful flashy planes under the icons just are unbearable).

I will not (yet) roll back to 10.04, but I ma very disappointed at what Canonical did with the Netbook Edition.

I was formerly a Windows user and moved to Linux because it allows me to customize and configure everything the way I want. Unity does exactly the contrary.

Bad :(

I will begin evaluating alternative distros, Lubuntu being first on my list.

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-11-05
> **Nikojiro said:**
> I totally agree with most of what I read in this thread.

Unity is unusable in its present state.

Dock is not configurable, nor can it be hidden, and the default colors are downright ugly (those awful flashy planes under the icons just are unbearable).

I will not (yet) roll back to 10.04, but I ma very disappointed at what Canonical did with the Netbook Edition.

I was formerly a Windows user and moved to Linux because it allows me to customize and configure everything the way I want. Unity does exactly the contrary.

Bad :(

I will begin evaluating alternative distros, Lubuntu being first on my list.
I hope you do realize that you can get Lubuntu in your current install by adding the Lubuntu PPA and installing lubuntu-desktop.

---

### Post by Chilli Bob on 2010-11-07
Sorry to jump into the conversation late, but I just bought a 8.9" eeePC, so took UNR for a test run.  Have to add my vote that Unity is unusable.  Slow, clunky, poorly thought out UI.

Changed back to regular Gnome,(and reduced to single panel), and 10.10 is working fantastic. Everything seems to be working out of the box.

---

### Post by Yownanymous on 2010-11-07
> **zeus123 said:**
> I never moan, or pull my face or be ungrateful towards other peoples efforts but i'm just gonna have to open my mouth with regard to Ubuntu 10.10 Netbook Remix. 


For a 2010 operating system with commercial support and a large development team behind it, you should be complaining. Ubuntu is awful.

---

### Post by jackdale on 2010-11-07
> **symon1980 said:**
> 
and now Canonical want to make Unity DEFAULT on the Desktop for 11.04!!!!
what a ridiculous idea..........


I think this is because Unity seems to be built on gnome 3.x, which is the way that gnome is (unfortunately) headed.

Workaround for 11.04:
install compiz and gnome-panel
activating compiz kills unity (as the are - and always will be - mutually exclusive), then start gnome-panel (which I hope does not get deprecated!)

I must say though, since all gnome distros will eventually use gnome 3, at least ubuntu is trying to make the best out of a very bad idea.  That does not make it a good one though.

Edit:
All may not be too grim:

[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-dx-n-unity-compiz](https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-dx-n-unity-compiz)

canonical have decided to use compiz instead of mutter (aka metacity 3) this should give unity a lot more flexibility and stability.  My guess is, however that it will not be highly stable/useable until the 12.04 LTS release.

---

### Post by g0kb3rk on 2010-11-07
I don't see people complaining about Ubuntu Netbook Edition 10.10 Maverick. Every body seems very very happy with Maverick. Maybe I am the misfit, one with the many problems but which I didn't have before, in 10.04.

1. I can't move the position of the taskbar, right click or something else is not working. It matters because it takes up too much place on my 10.1" screen.

2. Number of workspaces cannot be changed from settings. Many things are hard to do like the changing the time format.

3. There are somethings that I feel forced to use things that I don't want or need. (like the size of the taskbar, I previously mentioned or Firefox as the default browser)

4. Favorite application section is much better in 10.04. In 10.10, "Web" button starts my default web browser but "Music" or any other button doesn't start the default application of Music or e-mail.

If you are happy, I have nothing to say. I am not happy with the version I am using and for me it seems like a step backwards.

I am downloading the ISO of Ubuntu Netbook Edition 10.04 I will switch back when it is ready.

Regards,

Gökberk

My original post: [Netbook Ed. 10.04 is better or is it just me?]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1615762")

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-11-07
> **g0kb3rk said:**
> 1. I can't move the position of the taskbar, right click or something else is not working. It matters because it takes up too much place on my 10.1" screen.
You can't yet, planned for 11.04.

> 2. Number of workspaces cannot be changed from settings. Many things are hard to do like the changing the time format.
You can't

> 3. There are somethings that I feel forced to use things that I don't want or need. (like the size of the taskbar, I previously mentioned or Firefox as the default browser)
You can't yet, planned for 11.04,

> 4. Favorite application section is much better in 10.04. In 10.10, "Web" button starts my default web browser but "Music" or any other button doesn't start the default application of Music or e-mail.
There is no "favorite applications setion" in Unity. You're free to add applications to the dock though.
> 
If you are happy, I have nothing to say. I am not happy with the version I am using and for me it seems like a step backwards.
New things will always lack features present in software that has been under developement for a long time. Unity has been in development for six months.

---

### Post by Gonzalo_VC on 2010-11-07
> **g0kb3rk said:**
> I don't see people complaining about Ubuntu Netbook Edition 10.10 Maverick. Every body seems very very happy with Maverick. Maybe I am the misfit, one with the many problems but which I didn't have before, in 10.04.

1. I can't move the position of the taskbar, right click or something else is not working. It matters because it takes up too much place on my 10.1" screen.

2. Number of workspaces cannot be changed from settings. Many things are hard to do like the changing the time format.
...


I agree with this things.
I really hope it's improved regarding this aspects.

---

### Post by Zlatan on 2010-11-07
you guys should definitely try kubuntu- it loads netbook interface automatically and it is- trust me- awsome. currently enjoying it myself:)
cheers:)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-11-07
> New things will always lack features present in software that has been  under developement for a long time. Unity has been in development for  six months.
So why stick it in an OS when it is not yet really ready for use?

Like many posters here, I tried it, but only as a live USB on my netbook, and I simply could not find my way around anything.  It seems that I was not supposed to be able to change anything any more!

Luckily I did not install it.  However, as an aside I did try other distros after looking at 10.10 UNE, but so far can see nothing anywhere near as good as 10.04 UNE, so that is where the machine will stay, probably till 10.04 stops being updated.

---

### Post by Gonzalo_VC on 2010-11-07
> **Zlatan said:**
> you guys should definitely try kubuntu- it loads netbook interface automatically and it is- trust me- awsome. currently enjoying it myself:)
cheers:)

Sorry to disagree, but I found Kubuntu netbook edition complicated. Couldn't go back to the menu (instead of an ugly bar on the left, it hides behind the windows opened :P ). Really, less easy than Ubuntu netbook version, for me.

---

### Post by gutterslob on 2010-11-07
Both Gnome (with or without mutter/unity) and KDE are a bit overweight for netbook specs, imho. Personally, I'd rather see UNR built and customized on top of a WM like FVWM or OpenBox, or at least a lean Xfce install (not the Xubuntu package) if it had to be a DE.

But that's just my opinion.

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-11-07
> **ajgreeny said:**
> So why stick it in an OS when it is not yet really ready for use?
Because if they don't put it into the OS now, it won't get enough testing and feedback to become a good interface in time for the next LTS.

Canonical definitely isn't clear enough about this, and I suspect they're being ambiguous on purpose to get more users to test the non-LTS releases, but people who don't want unfinished/halfway-implemented features and changes should stick to the LTS' and use PPAs.

---

### Post by Nikojiro on 2010-11-08
> **NCLI said:**
> I hope you do realize that you can get Lubuntu in your current install by adding the Lubuntu PPA and installing lubuntu-desktop.

Hummm, installed lxde package instead, ultimately gives me more control over customizing the L&F.

Thanks for the tip anyway :)

---

### Post by cub on 2010-11-08
> **NCLI said:**
> I hope you do realize that you can get Lubuntu in your current install by adding the Lubuntu PPA and installing lubuntu-desktop.
Cheers. I did just that and the performance on my newly upgraded 10.10 on Asus eee pc 900 went from sluggish/annoying to quick again.

Now I just need to read up on how to make it look like I want.

---

### Post by cub on 2010-11-08
> **Nikojiro said:**
> Hummm, installed lxde package instead, ultimately gives me more control over customizing the L&F.

Thanks for the tip anyway :)
How is that different from installing lubuntu-desktop? I was not overly excited that I had to download and install 250 MB of software, but it was way better performance than Unity.

---

### Post by ndefontenay on 2010-11-08
I've installed the Meerkat desktop version on my laptop then I heard there was this unity thing buzzing around.
I've apt-got it. It required just a log out to work fine.

There are things missing but not show stopper and I can see a really good GUI with a lot of potential for growth.

My personal grief with Unity is the world clock gone. Just a plain calendar and DateTime. After quickly inquiring on the Natty Narwhal programming forum, it turns out it's one of those features that couldn't make it in time on Unity.

I'm completely used to it now and loving it. My screen is a wide 19/9 17" laptop screen. I realise on a 13 inch it might be a completely different feeling. Not for me though.

---

### Post by Zlatan on 2010-11-08
> **Gonzalo_VC said:**
> Sorry to disagree, but I found Kubuntu netbook edition complicated. Couldn't go back to the menu (instead of an ugly bar on the left, it hides behind the windows opened :P ). Really, less easy than Ubuntu netbook version, for me.

not sure which menu you've lost butyou can launch apps from "Search and launch" page seen on top left.

Why I find Kubuntu usefulfor netbooks is plasmoids- you barely have to open any application by using different plasmoids on different pages;) At least my old ASUS EEE 900 with 1Gb RAMseems happy enough about Kubuntu at this time...

---

### Post by g0kb3rk on 2010-11-08
> **NCLI said:**
> You can't yet, planned for 11.04.

You can't yet, planned for 11.04,

New things will always lack features present in software that has been under developement for a long time. Unity has been in development for six months.

I am not against new things but programmers should think in the benefits of users. Unity is not ready for end-user especially beginners who will start to try Linux and use it after seeing its great performance. Unity is like a death trap for them.

11.04 will be released on April, 2011 and I don't think 10.10 is not worth to use until the version arrives.

I installed Ubuntu Desktop 10.10 to my netbook and I must say I am happier now.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-11-08
The switch to Unity is being driven by paying customers, not us freeloaders. :)

---

### Post by Zlatan on 2010-11-09
> **cariboo907 said:**
> The switch to Unity is being driven by paying customers, not us freeloaders. :)

Do you mean switch to current state of Unity? Who are these paying customers?

---

### Post by johntaylor1887 on 2010-11-09
> **andymorton said:**
> As far as I'm aware the only difference between the netbook and desktop editions is the GUI. Under the hood they're both the same.

Yeah, but I thought both were a little too heavy for my taste. So I just did a minimal install and put on only what I wanted. I found out that a base XFCE install with only a couple of apps works very well and fast. It's only using 160mb ram with firefox open :)  Once the prices of SSD's go down a bit more, it won't really matter what distro I use everything will be fast.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-11-09
> **Zlatan said:**
> Do you mean switch to current state of Unity? Who are these paying customers?

Paying customers are companies that buy support contracts from Canonical, as well as companies that sell computer systems with Ubuntu pre-installed.

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-11-09
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Paying customers are companies that buy support contracts from Canonical, as well as companies that sell computer systems with Ubuntu pre-installed.
Exactly he rest of us get the exact same product(minus Canonical's support) for free. In return, if we choose not to stick to the LTS' like I'd imagine the paying customers are advised to do, we sometimes test incomplete software like Unity for Canonical's benefit.

---

### Post by Zlatan on 2010-11-09
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Paying customers are companies that buy support contracts from Canonical, as well as companies that sell computer systems with Ubuntu pre-installed.

OK, we all know that, but I was asking who payed money for current state of Unity?

---

### Post by slackthumbz on 2010-11-09
> **Zlatan said:**
> OK, we all know that, but I was asking who payed money for current state of Unity?

Considering its current usability I'd say we're all paying for it :p We're told it will be better by 11.04, I guess we'll have to wait and see. As long as we still have gnome 2 style desktops available it'll all be fine for stick-in-the-muds like me.

---

### Post by Zlatan on 2010-11-09
> **slackthumbz said:**
> Considering its current usability I'd say we're all paying for it :p We're told it will be better by 11.04, I guess we'll have to wait and see. As long as we still have gnome 2 style desktops available it'll all be fine for stick-in-the-muds like me.

Yeah I've probably misunderstood the term "pay" ;)

---

### Post by PhilGil on 2010-11-09
I dual boot 10.04 Netbook Edition and Lubuntu 10.10 on my ASUS 1000h; both are outstanding. 10.10 Netbook Edition, however, seems more like a prototype than a usable distro for most people. Perhaps, in cases like this, Canonical needs to be more forthcoming about the nature of a release that's clearly not ready for general consumption.

---

### Post by TheDuskrider on 2010-11-09
The Ubuntu Desktop 10.10 is literally 10 times as fast as Ubuntu Netbook 10.10. I just got an ASUS EeePC 1005PEB with the Intel Atom N450 1.6ghz and 1gb RAM. Definitely not going back to the Netbook Edition anytime soon unless it gets way faster. The Desktop Edition also has way less graphics problems (screen flickering, text displaying properly). I also like the wider screen and being able to auto hide the task bar. I can also run more applications under the Desktop over the Netbook.

---

### Post by fuddledumpy on 2010-11-09
I understand Unity for the netbook edition, but what I don't understand is why Ubuntu is making Unity the default for the new desktop edition...

---

### Post by Zlatan on 2010-11-10
> **fuddledumpy said:**
> I understand Unity for the netbook edition, but what I don't understand is why Ubuntu is making Unity the default for the new desktop edition...

suppose Unity at that time will differ a lot from what it is now

---

### Post by Paqman on 2010-11-10
> **fuddledumpy said:**
> I understand Unity for the netbook edition, but what I don't understand is why Ubuntu is making Unity the default for the new desktop edition...

Because they're not happy with the direction Gnome Shell is going, and want to create their own.

---

### Post by pestie on 2010-11-18
I just feel the need to add my voice to the chorus of people annoyed and highly disappointed by Unity, and 10.10 in general. I moved my Lenovo S10 from Xubuntu to Ubuntu Netbook Edition when I upgraded to 10.04 and was overjoyed at the user interface. Everything was fast and slick and I was extremely happy.

Since I rarely have issues with Ubuntu upgrades, I went ahead and upgraded to 10.10. Holy crap, it was awful. I eventually figured out how to turn off Unity (which is criminally bad - slow, ugly and unconfigurable), but my problems didn't stop there. The icons and fonts for the "Ubuntu Netbook 2D" interface (the one very much like the old 10.04 Netbook Edition) are HUGE, and often don't quite display correctly. Kismet is now broken, and my netbook's fan runs far more often than it used to under 10.04, so clearly I'm using way more power than I used to.

I am very, very tempted to downgrade to 10.04, but I'm afraid that might be more of an assache than it's worth. I might switch back to Xubuntu, though. That's what I run on my desktop machines and I've always been very happy with it. I only switched away from it in the first place because I liked the Netbook Remix UI so much, and I was doing a fresh install anyway.

Die, Unity, die!!

---

### Post by symon1980 on 2010-11-25
I agree with everybody else.... i have reviewed Unity on 10.10 and pointed out lots of bugs and missing features... it is a disaster...

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upVWR0SEB-8](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upVWR0SEB-8)

I am completely gobsmacked to how or why Canonical have made so many bad decisions over the years... it just never ends.... They consistantly make poor choices and put buggy unfinished software as default in Ubuntu. Canonical need to wisen up and make better decisions for their Distrubution to ensure only the highest quality, stable, production ready software ever gets put on ubuntu by default. I am willing to bet they will merge Wayland before it is ready too.....

Atleast the Linux Mint Devs make profesional, well thought out decisions... I see lots of people moving to mint in the near future

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-11-25
> **symon1980 said:**
> I agree with everybody else.... i have reviewed Unity on 10.10 and pointed out lots of bugs and missing features... it is a disaster...

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upVWR0SEB-8](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upVWR0SEB-8)

I am completely gobsmacked to how or why Canonical have made so many bad decisions over the years... it just never ends.... They consistantly make poor choices and put buggy unfinished software as default in Ubuntu.
Please give me an example of an Ubuntu LTS which was released with poor quality/unfinished software. I don't really care about the non-LTS releases, it's clear that if you want stability, you should go with the LTS.
> Canonical need to wisen up and make better decisions for their Distrubution to ensure only the highest quality, stable, production ready software ever gets put on ubuntu by default. I am willing to bet they will merge Wayland before it is ready too.....
I don't see any reason why they would do that. They've already stated that Wayland will be available in a PPA for users to test soon enough, but that they don't plan on merging anytime soon. My bet would be on a merge happening after the nest LTS.

> Atleast the Linux Mint Devs make profesional, well thought out decisions... I see lots of people moving to mint in the near future
The linux mint devs have a lot less responsibility to add new, unstable software in order to add testers and attention to new projects, since their userbase is so much smaller.

---

### Post by hadlock on 2010-11-26
edit: I'm not trying to troll/flamewar, I'm just furious with how bad this is :popcorn:

Chiming in as well, really not happy with the remix edition. The usb image I downloaded from Ubuntu's site required me to google for a way to even get it to boot (boot config file needed to be edited). That should have been fixed and reuploaded months ago.

Once I got that sorted, the broadcom wireless repository files were corrupted (on a clean install), so I had to delete them and update apt-get (another 10 min of googling).

Installer froze for almost 20 min before getting to the "install" button.

Even less happy that you can't auto-hide the unity bar two months after release, and 6+ months after the beta. Win95 (15 years ago) had auto-hide functionality out of the gate - what on earth made them decide to not add that? There's almost zero right click functionality, and no drag and drop functionality. It took Microsoft until IE 5 to add drag and drop functionality to the start bar, but that's still a 12 year old feature. When you're rolling out a major "upgrade" to your interface, it should at least have basic GUI features. I can't even drag the task bar to the right side of the screen. The fact that this has been live to the unsuspecting public since early October and these basic functionalities haven't been patched in is embarrassing.

I really liked 9.10 and thought 10.4 was a great improvement. 10.10 runs like molasses on pretty standard hardware - Atom N270 and Intel GMA950.

Unity is probably a step in the right direction, but it definitely wasn't ready for public consumption, which is probably why it got snuck into the Netbook release and not the desktop edition. The "choose your interface" selection on the login screen drips of "I'm so sorry you have to deal with this in 10.10, here, have a normal GUI". 10.4 finished downloading and I will be reinstalling from scratch after I hit the reply button. 10.10 netbook remix needs to be retracted from the mirrors, or at least 10.04 needs to be the highlighted edition until they sort out all the problems that didn't get fixed in time for the 10.10 UNR release. Unity is a neat idea, especially for tablets, but it has no business being associated with netbooks.

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-11-26
> **hadlock said:**
> edit: I'm not trying to troll/flamewar, I'm just furious with how bad this is :popcorn:

Chiming in as well, really not happy with the remix edition. The usb image I downloaded from Ubuntu's site required me to google for a way to even get it to boot (boot config file needed to be edited). That should have been fixed and reuploaded months ago.
It has been working fine for me, have you reported it as a bug over at [Launchpad]("http://www.launchpad.com")?

> Once I got that sorted, the broadcom wireless repository files were corrupted (on a clean install), so I had to delete them and update apt-get (another 10 min of googling).
It's really starting to sound like your download was corrupted.

> Installer froze for almost 20 min before getting to the "install" button.
Again, this is either a bug, which should be reported, or a bad download.

> Even less happy that you can't auto-hide the unity bar two months after release, and 6+ months after the beta. Win95 (15 years ago) had auto-hide functionality out of the gate - what on earth made them decide to not add that? There's almost zero right click functionality, and no drag and drop functionality. It took Microsoft until IE 5 to add drag and drop functionality to the start bar, but that's still a 12 year old feature. When you're rolling out a major "upgrade" to your interface, it should at least have basic GUI features. I can't even drag the task bar to the right side of the screen. The fact that this has been live to the unsuspecting public since early October and these basic functionalities haven't been patched in is embarrassing.
First of all Unity went from nothing to this in six months, which is an impressive development pace. Second, it is a well-known fact(Although it really should be made more clear on Ubuntu.com) that the normal releases are for people who want the latest software, feature-complete or not, and LTS releases are for the people who want stable, feature-complete software. The entire point of the normal releases is to have a lot of people test them and report bugs or missing features like the ones you've listed here, so that everything can be perfected in time for the next LTS. In this release, both the installer and Unity are very new projects, so bugs and missing functionality should be expected.

> I really liked 9.10 and thought 10.4 was a great improvement. 10.10 runs like molasses on pretty standard hardware - Atom N270 and Intel GMA950.
Correction: Mutter runs like molasses on netbooks. This is not really Canonicals fault, but Gnome's. Mutter is the window manager Gnome is working on for their 3.X release, and which Canonical chose to base Unity on, seeing that it is the window manager of the future. 

Unfortunately, as you have experienced, it turned out to be very slow, which is why Unity is being rewritten to use Compiz instead in time for 11.04.
> 
Unity is probably a step in the right direction, but it definitely wasn't ready for public consumption, which is probably why it got snuck into the Netbook release and not the desktop edition.
Actually, Ubuntu's netbook release is currently the primary focus of development, so to say that it was "snuck-in" isn't fair.
> 
 The "choose your interface" selection on the login screen drips of "I'm so sorry you have to deal with this in 10.10, here, have a normal GUI". 
The "choose your interface" menu has been there since the new GDM dropped in 9.10, IIRC.

> 10.4 finished downloading and I will be reinstalling from scratch after I hit the reply button. 10.10 netbook remix needs to be retracted from the mirrors, or at least 10.04 needs to be the highlighted edition until they sort out all the problems that didn't get fixed in time for the 10.10 UNR release. Unity is a neat idea, especially for tablets, but it has no business being associated with netbooks.
I am currently testing the new Compiz-based Unity on my netbook, and though extremely buggy(It's preAlpha), it is very snappy and responsive. Also, [this should please you]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GwlXZr-3DRo").

Unity will most likely be the default interface for both the Desktop and Netbook edition in 11.04, and it's certainly looking good from here.

---

### Post by cub on 2010-11-26
> **NCLI said:**
> Unfortunately, as you have experienced, it turned out to be very slow, which is why Unity is being rewritten to use Compiz instead in time for 11.04.

I am currently testing the new Compiz-based Unity on my netbook, and though extremely buggy(It's preAlpha), it is very snappy and responsive. Also, [this should please you]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GwlXZr-3DRo").

Sweet!

---

### Post by symon1980 on 2010-11-26
> **NCLI said:**
> Please give me an example of an Ubuntu LTS which was released with poor quality/unfinished software. I don't really care about the non-LTS releases, it's clear that if you want stability, you should go with the LTS.

I don't see any reason why they would do that. They've already stated that Wayland will be available in a PPA for users to test soon enough, but that they don't plan on merging anytime soon. My bet would be on a merge happening after the nest LTS.


The linux mint devs have a lot less responsibility to add new, unstable software in order to add testers and attention to new projects, since their userbase is so much smaller.



hhmmmm Well lets see............ as quoted from wikipedia

"Ubuntu didn't exactly do a stellar job. They didn't do their homework" in adopting PulseAudio[7] for Ubuntu "Hardy Heron" (8.04)

Grub2

Plymouth/Kms in Ubuntu 10.04

9.04 not being able  to mount usb drives   (was later fixed couple weeks later)   thats a few from the top of my head...

About Lts releases... I agree they are "more" stable, obviously... its based on debian testing...
however they do NOT make it clear to the general public who know nothing about Linux that non LTS releases can be unstable/buggy. Every Release of ubuntu is the first thing that comes up on [www.ubuntu.com](www.ubuntu.com)
If non LTS releases were considered by canonical to be for testing purposes, then it should not be the main featured advertisement on their latest release on the front page of their website... LTS should be. Or they should do what Debian do and name it "Ubuntu testing" or "Ubuntu unstable"


I'm not hating on Ubuntu... I just feel that they often make bad decisions and unstable/unfinished software should NOT be released as default on ANY ubuntu release "unless" it was clear to the general public of that intention... such as what i have mentioned above

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-11-26
> **symon1980 said:**
> hhmmmm Well lets see............ as quoted from wikipedia

"Ubuntu didn't exactly do a stellar job. They didn't do their homework" in adopting PulseAudio[7] for Ubuntu "Hardy Heron" (8.04)

Grub2

Plymouth/Kms in Ubuntu 10.04

9.04 not being able  to mount usb drives   (was later fixed couple weeks later)   thats a few from the top of my head...
Lol, true, I'd forgotten about how it used to be. However, I do feel that they've changed the way they handle LTS releases with 10.04, which was, IIRC, the first Ubuntu release to be based on Debian testing instead of unstable. It also didn't really introduce any new features. 

In summary: I agree that Ubuntu has handled LTS releases poorly prior to 10.04, but I think their strategy has changed from using LTS to push major changes, to using standard releases for the changes and refinements, and just debug once the LTS rolls around.

> About Lts releases... I agree they are "more" stable, obviously... its based on debian testing...
Only 10.04 so far, again IIRC.
> 
however they do NOT make it clear to the general public who know nothing about Linux that non LTS releases can be unstable/buggy. Every Release of ubuntu is the first thing that comes up on [www.ubuntu.com](www.ubuntu.com)
If non LTS releases were considered by canonical to be for testing purposes, then it should not be the main featured advertisement on their latest release on the front page of their website... LTS should be. Or they should do what Debian do and name it "Ubuntu testing" or "Ubuntu unstable"
You forget what Canonicals main goal is: Selling a world-class operating system to businesses. If the LTS was the featured release on ubuntu.com, how many people do you think would use the normal releases?

> I'm not hating on Ubuntu... I just feel that they often make bad decisions and unstable/unfinished software should NOT be released as default on ANY ubuntu release "unless" it was clear to the general public of that intention... such as what i have mentioned above
I agree that it should be made more clear on the front page, but I wouldn'&#7831; call the normal releases unstable, just point out that some parts may not be entirely feature-complete.

---

### Post by Johnsie on 2010-11-26
Jolicloud for the win

---

### Post by chalker293 on 2010-11-26
hi just bought 2 epc 7"netbook windows ce 6.0 do you think it would work better with ubuntu netbook editiion as it cant play videos on utube not tryed anything else as it xmas gifts for my 2 young girls any help or advice please

---

### Post by cub on 2010-11-26
> **chalker293 said:**
> hi just bought 2 epc 7"netbook windows ce 6.0 do you think it would work better with ubuntu netbook editiion as it cant play videos on utube not tryed anything else as it xmas gifts for my 2 young girls any help or advice please
Better is a subjective thing. :) I would recommend trying the Ubuntu Netbook Edition and choose LXDE as window manager. I works great on my old eee pc and even my windows-only girlfriend can handle it.

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-11-26
> **chalker293 said:**
> hi just bought 2 epc 7"netbook windows ce 6.0 do you think it would work better with ubuntu netbook editiion as it cant play videos on utube not tryed anything else as it xmas gifts for my 2 young girls any help or advice please
You should probably use either Lubuntu or Crunchbang Linux. However, the early EeePCs were very lightweight machines, I'm not sure that you will be able to make them work with YouTube.

---

### Post by mrpelicano on 2010-11-27
I would like to add, as someone who is entirely new to Ubuntu and has been using the Unity interface for all of 5-6 hours, that it is such a relief to be off of WinXP and free of Microsoft&#347; clutches that I&#7743; willing to overlook most of the shortcomings mentioned by others in this thread.

Let me add, though, that system performance has been fine on my HP Compaq CQ-10 netbook, and boot time is so much faster than WinXP or WinVista that my wife noticed the difference immediately (I re-imaged her full-size Toshiba notebook to the Ubuntu Desktop edition and she has been delighted with the instant performance improvement, particularly now that all the anti-virus crap is gone).  I&#7743; not thrilled with the fact that the global menu palette cannot be hidden, but presumably that will be addressed in 11.04 next Spring.

Otherwise, I&#7743; quite happy with my experience so far but reserve the right to be crushingly disappointed at some future date. :)

---

### Post by PhilGil on 2010-11-27
> **chalker293 said:**
> hi just bought 2 epc 7"netbook windows ce 6.0 do you think it would work better with ubuntu netbook editiion as it cant play videos on utube not tryed anything else as it xmas gifts for my 2 young girls any help or advice please
You don't have what you think you bought. What you purchased were not *ASUS EEE PC's* but low-powered netbooks with ARM (cell phone type) processors and Windows CE. Most of the Windows CE models have the operating system baked into the firmware and it is extremely challenging, if not impossible, to install Linux. You definitely won't be able to run any of the normal 'Buntus as they aren't compatible with your processor architecture.

The newer models from the same sources have a bit more power and run Android OS instead of Windows CE. They might be acceptable for light video watching. I'd advise you to read some of the online reviews before purchasing.

---

### Post by ArunavAm on 2010-11-28
I personally see no reason to say that Meerkat is missing the point.. yup, common ubuntu bugs do exist in the release, some are also removed through update, or from solutions from Ubuntuforums. I am using SONY VAIO M (1024x600) netbook,*(I needn't mention, but still, for the info.. it came with a crappy piece of WINDOWS 7 STARTER)* and seeing that 10.10 is quite good.. If u are not liking the Unity interface, just simply choose the desktop mode from the login window. I am having fun with both.. though I must say I am hardly logging into the UNITY interface, cuz there's a bit of lockdowns in the GUI, Desktop and operations.

As a newbie, I see this edition of Ubuntu as a distro with flying colors.. well, I certainly have not been through a lot of distros or Ubuntu editions.. But it's far better than the previous releases.. :)

Oh, did I mention..? ...The movies that bumped and lagged in Windows 7 Starter on my netbook (Atom, 2GB RAM, 320GB HDD) are playing quite fine on Meerkat.. :popcorn:. I AM HAPPY WITH 10.10..
From me, 10/10 ;) :P

---

### Post by Fourcultures on 2010-12-03
Some of these issues are covered in the [Unity FAQ]("http://askubuntu.com/tags/unity/faq"). One answer there says:[INDENT] the best way to let the Unity developers know what specific features you want would be to join us on the [ayatana mailing list]("https://edge.launchpad.net/%7Eayatana") to talk about design issues and ideas, and of course feel free to [file bug reports]("https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/unity/") on specific features that you feel should be implemented in Unity.
[/INDENT]Any takers? 
I agree with the point about LTS releases, which 10.10 isn't . If you don't want 'bleeding edge' software that isn't polished yet don't upgrade till the next LTS comes around. *But* I accidentally found myself upgrading to 10.10 via Update Manager (clearly I can't drive this thing). The result was a Toshiba NB200 netbook that loaded very slowly, and hung repeatedly unless I constantly moved the pointer or pressed keys. Sound playback with Rhythmbox was next to impossible to listen to hanging and looping. In other words, it was broken. But these problems aren't strictly anything to do with Unity. A quick solution I've found is to boot the previous Linux kernel in Grub. Unsatisfactory but better than the alternative. 
As for Unity itself, I really like the way it looks - very crisp on my machine. It is obviously designed for fingers pointing on a touch screen (utouch) and this is going to be essential as touch interfaces become ubiquitous. No one has mentioned the integration of the search bar - this is a useful development. I also like the multiple desktops tab. It seems quite easy to add and remove tabs from the sidebar. Another new feature I liked was the way you can tweak your rhythmbox listening via the notification box. It was just a shame I couldn't actually listen to anything due to constant hanging.
Things I hate: no autohide; no configuration options; every so often the app icons display their titles vertically, letter by letter, rather than horizontally; the fact that the 'upgrade' broke my computer. 
So, reluctantly, I might remove Unity at least until autohide is featured. But I'm also going to [file bug reports]("https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/unity/"). More effective than just griping.

---

### Post by Fourcultures on 2010-12-07
update to post #123. After using Unity for a few more days i'm really coming to like it. The lack of autohide and the lack of configuration options haven't yet made me ditch it. In fact the more I use it the more I'm going to keep it.

---

### Post by Shintek on 2011-07-26
Change your desktop enviroment lol...change it to classic.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-07-26
Did you really have to bump a post from December 2010?

---

### Post by drawkcab on 2011-07-27
[IMG]http://mark.tannert.net/tg/images/ThreadNecromancy.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by GamesBond on 2011-09-28
I was slow to upgrade but the new Unity interface annoys me to the extreme. If i want my mobile device to look like a bloody iphone i would have bought an ipad.

I really don't see what was wrong about the small, quick and efficient start menu. The only use i see for unity would be on a device with a touchpad which clearly, most devices running Ubuntu are not......

---

### Post by ninjaaron on 2011-09-28
I'm glad we had this conversation ... a year ago...

---

### Post by KiwiNZ on 2011-09-28
Hush little Netbook thread go to sleep
papas going buy you a new thread to
And if the new thread fails to grow
Its due to no one having a peep

Sleep now

---

