---
title: "Haunted swing freaks out families and police!"
date: 2007-10-25
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by samjh on 2007-10-25
[http://www.news.com.au/story/0,23599,22651563-13762,00.html](http://www.news.com.au/story/0,23599,22651563-13762,00.html)

[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/pages/live/articles/news/worldnews.html?in_article_id=489616&in_page_id=1811](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/pages/live/articles/news/worldnews.html?in_article_id=489616&in_page_id=1811)

What the?! :confused:

---

### Post by -grubby on 2007-10-25
It  sounds like the wind's blowing..it doesn't sound very mysterious at all. Otherwise, that was a horrible (sound quality) video

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2007-10-25
So? How are peopled concerned with that, it is not like someone was kicked off.

---

### Post by Anessen on 2007-10-25
Not enough information.

---

### Post by Eric the Grey on 2007-10-25
> **nathangrubb said:**
> It  sounds like the wind's blowing..it doesn't sound very mysterious at all. Otherwise, that was a horrible (sound quality) video

My first thought was wind as well, until the middle swing started going crazy.  If it were just wind, they all would have been swinging the same way.

Too cool.


:cool: Eric the Grey

---

### Post by Tux Aubrey on 2007-10-25
> My first thought was wind as well...

Actually, _my_ first thought was "Hey, RAV TUX has got a new user name!"

---

### Post by Spr0k3t on 2007-10-26
Interesting to say the least, but it needs more information imho.

---

### Post by Ancheron on 2007-10-26
The central swing's movement is highly anomalous. 

There are many other videos of this phenomenon on YouTube. Just check through the flash menu.

Check here:

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-PHqCm0wNi4](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-PHqCm0wNi4)

The man stops it, then it starts up very quickly.

Translation of description:

We can appreciate as after being restrained the hammock it begins to move again, without cuts, without publishing. For those unbelievers that criticized our videos. Aqui is our evidence, pure and exclusive of Firmat Newspaper.

---

### Post by undine on 2007-10-26
> **Tux Aubrey said:**
> Actually, _my_ first thought was "Hey, RAV TUX has got a new user name!"

:lolflag:

---

### Post by jrusso2 on 2007-10-26
You can see how windy it is there.  Just because one swing is moving more then the others does not mean its haunted.

Could be the wind is funnel towards that swing or the others are not as free moving.

If you look at the woman to the left of the camera you can see her hair blowing in the wind.

You also see a kid flying a kite.

its not a very calm day.

---

### Post by EdThaSlayer on 2007-10-26
The paranormal, awesome! Hahaha.

---

### Post by samjh on 2007-10-26
> **Tux Aubrey said:**
> Actually, _my_ first thought was "Hey, RAV TUX has got a new user name!"

Now I'm deeply offended. :p

[QUOTE=jrusso2]You can see how windy it is there. Just because one swing is moving more then the others does not mean its haunted.

Could be the wind is funnel towards that swing or the others are not as free moving.

If you look at the woman to the left of the camera you can see her hair blowing in the wind.

You also see a kid flying a kite.

its not a very calm day.[/quote]

If you look at some of the other videos, the ground is very flat and there are almost no obstructions around those swings.  Any localised "funnel" of wind wouldn't make such a huge difference in the movement of the swings.  The middle swing really goes berserk, while the other swings only move a little.

I'd love to see a time-lapse video of this taken over a span of several days.

---

### Post by popch on 2007-10-26
> **Anessen said:**
> Not enough information.

Not enough imagination.

It's the wind. The swings swing because they act as airfoils (wings). The one swinging with the largest amplitude keeps turning to and fro. It can be presumed that the lift generated by the seat of the swing changes with its direction relative to the wind. Apparently it swings with a frequency close to its resonance frequency.

---

### Post by spamzilla on 2007-10-26
I think you'll find that horrid background noise is the wind so this story is just BS

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2007-10-26
Yes, it is definately windy because you can see the wind blowing the hair of the woman that walked in front of the camera.

But as was mentioned earlier, the center swing went crazy in a forward-back motion while the two swings to the side were going perpendicular.  The wind would push them all in the same direction more-or-less.

Yes, each swing would react to the wind differently, but similarly.

Make sure you see the video all of the way through (I used the UTube link because the news site died on my part-way, before the center swing got going.

Also, notice near the end of the clip, the swing on the right is leaning in towards the center and whether it is the choppy video clip or whatever, it looks to stop oscillating and holds at an odd angle (looking at the chains).

All the while the swing on the left seems to be acting like a "normal" swing.

In another clip on UTube of the same swings, it shows the left and center swing swinging like crazy, then the left one stops, but the center one continues.

A girl comes over and stops the center swing. After a moment it starts swinging again while the two side ones oscillate side-to-side again.

Yes, it was windy. I also notice there looks to be a train or highway in the background.

Interesting, but for me the jury's out because there's no way to tell if it is rigged.  If there is sufficient wind blowing just on the center one, could this cause the two side swings to oscillate side-to-side as they do (possible, but not sure)?  Especially considering the wind direction seems to come from the left in the first video, hitting all 3 swings at the same time, and the when the center swing is going on the other two swings are moving perpendicular to the wind direction.

(perfect for this time of the year... full moon last night and Halloween on the horizoon! :) )

---

### Post by mramsey on 2007-10-26
If the other two swing were perfectly still - Then there would be something to discuss.  Way too much wind to make anything else of it.

---

### Post by Sunflower1970 on 2007-10-26
Weird.

The Youtube video's a bit better. Not sure what to make of it...Could be the wind, could be haunted...

---

### Post by popch on 2007-10-26
It's a trick. They are using stop motion.

---

