---
title: ".docx .xlsx .pptx etc..."
date: 2008-05-16
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Kernel Sanders on 2008-05-16
Will any of these new formats survive? 

For me, the universal standard that I encounter day by day is the original .doc .xls .ppt etc... and OOo supports these pretty much naively, along with the widely used Office 2000-2003.

---

### Post by fatality_uk on 2008-05-16
> **Kernel Sanders said:**
> Will any of these new formats survive? 

For me, the universal standard that I encounter day by day is the original .doc .xls .ppt etc... and OOo supports these pretty much naively, along with the widely used Office 2000-2003.

Why did Microsoft offer a ISO new lock in format? I think the answer is contained within your post. They will survive because Microsoft will want them to work and as such, they will

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-05-16
Of course they will survive, Microsoft has managed to get it approved as an International standard, and I think the next few versions of Office will clearly use this "standard" as default. So as more and more people upgrade due to old versions, it will become more dominant.

Though I here that OOo 3.0 will support reading and writing the new Office file formats :)

---

### Post by retrow on 2008-05-16
The beta version of OOo 3.0 still needs the converter to read .***x formats. Perhaps the converter will be integrated into the main package by the time of final release.

---

### Post by Mr A Mouse on 2008-05-16
At least this time they used a different file extension. I cannot tell you how frustrating it was back when I ran Office 97 and I tried to open an Office 2000 file.

---

### Post by bouta on 2008-05-16
when will OOo be released..any1?

---

### Post by retrow on 2008-05-16
Version 3.0 is scheduled for September.

[http://marketing.openoffice.org/3.0/announcementbeta.html](http://marketing.openoffice.org/3.0/announcementbeta.html)

---

### Post by thisllub on 2008-05-16
Gnumeric reads xlsx.

At least they are published formats.

It doesn't really matter what software vendors do if they publish their document formats.

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-05-16
I should note that OOo 2.4 reads the files pretty well without a converter, you have to force it to open them though ;)

I've opened both .docx files and .xlsx files. I just saved them in either the default OOo format, or the "old" office format :) Worked fine

---

