---
title: "1.5 TB Optical Disc?"
date: 2009-05-20
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-05-20
Anybody seen this:

> [http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/8060082.stm](http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/8060082.stm)

**How to fit 300 DVDs on one disc**

Information stored on layers
The different colours and polarisations of light access different images

A new optical recording method could pave the way for data discs with 300 times the storage capacity of standard DVDs, Nature journal reports.

And I thought the earlier report about developments in 500 GB optical disc was astounding.

This one looks like it has a better chance of being realized in the near future.

I just wonder how long it will take to burn an entire disk? A few hours? 

Hard disks keep getting so big and cheap it probably won't be worth it to buy a burner,

---

### Post by SuperSonic4 on 2009-05-20
Yeah, I saw that article but I don't think it will kill the 700mb CD-R.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-05-20
> **SuperSonic4 said:**
> Yeah, I saw that article but I don't think it will kill the 700mb CD-R.

Isn't the cd already headed for oblivion?  People download music now, and many OS installation discs are on DVD (vista, a number of linux distros).  Then there's multi-GB USB sticks and DAPs.

---

### Post by TBOL3 on 2009-05-20
I don't think it will kill the 700 MB cdr either, because they are going away before it will even come out to the average consumer.

---

### Post by PurposeOfReason on 2009-05-20
You mean I can snap and easily lose 1.5TB? Awesome!

---

### Post by Firestem4 on 2009-05-20
[http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2009/05/researchers-hope-to-cram-12tb-of-data-on-dvd-sized-disk.ars](http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2009/05/researchers-hope-to-cram-12tb-of-data-on-dvd-sized-disk.ars)

12TB Discs

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-05-20
> **Firestem4 said:**
> [http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2009/05/researchers-hope-to-cram-12tb-of-data-on-dvd-sized-disk.ars](http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2009/05/researchers-hope-to-cram-12tb-of-data-on-dvd-sized-disk.ars)

12TB Discs

that's wickedly huge

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2009-05-20
> **PurposeOfReason said:**
> You mean I can snap and easily lose 1.5TB? Awesome!

ehehehehh.... you could freak out, super glue the two halves back together, and lose your drive too :D

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-05-20
Someday there will be 500tb recordable disks. Does that surprise you? Not me. It will happen in time. Perhaps by then, disks won't even matter. Most every technology so far has gone by the wayside, only to be replaced by something else.

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-05-20
> **TBOL3 said:**
> I don't think it will kill the 700 MB cdr either, because they are going away before it will even come out to the average consumer.

Although unlikely to affect computer users much these days even the humble cassette is still going strong. (I haven't used cassette-based storage on a computer for nearly 20 years)

[http://www.3news.co.nz/Rewinding-back-to-the-80s---cassettes-making-a-comeback/tabid/412/articleID/104657/cat/73/Default.aspx](http://www.3news.co.nz/Rewinding-back-to-the-80s---cassettes-making-a-comeback/tabid/412/articleID/104657/cat/73/Default.aspx)

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-05-20
> **lisati said:**
> Although unlikely to affect computer users much these days even the humble cassette is still going strong. (I haven't used a cassette-based storage on a computer for nearly 20 years)

[http://www.3news.co.nz/Rewinding-back-to-the-80s---cassettes-making-a-comeback/tabid/412/articleID/104657/cat/73/Default.aspx](http://www.3news.co.nz/Rewinding-back-to-the-80s---cassettes-making-a-comeback/tabid/412/articleID/104657/cat/73/Default.aspx)

> **Police still rely on cassettes as many lawyers don't trust digital technology.**

interesting...didn't know that

---

### Post by monsterstack on 2009-05-20
I can't wait for storage to get bigger and cheaper. You can already get 64 gigabyte USB sticks. It looks like internet companies are going to do everything in their power to not upgrade our connection speeds over the next few years. Trading super huge discs and sticks amongst friends might well be the best way of sharing large collections of large files soon enough.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-05-21
> **monsterstack said:**
> I can't wait for storage to get bigger and cheaper. You can already get 64 gigabyte USB sticks. It looks like internet companies are going to do everything in their power to not upgrade our connection speeds over the next few years. Trading super huge discs and sticks amongst friends might well be the best way of sharing large collections of large files soon enough.

yeah, pony-express-with-usb-stick

---

### Post by monsterstack on 2009-05-21
> **logos34 said:**
> yeah, pony-express-with-usb-stick

It's a pretty cool idea. I mean, Debian has [35 discs]("http://cdimage.debian.org/cdimage/weekly-builds/i386/iso-cd/") [debian.org] nowadays. Alternatively, you could get the whole lot on to a single Blu-Ray disc. Not a bad way of lugging about a distro if I do say so myself.

---

### Post by Rainstride on 2009-05-21
> **logos34 said:**
> Anybody seen this:



And I thought the earlier report about developments in 500 GB optical disc was astounding.

This one looks like it has a better chance of being realized in the near future.

I just wonder how long it will take to burn an entire disk? A few hours? 

Hard disks keep getting so big and cheap it probably won't be worth it to buy a burner,

it would be great for long term storage. hard disks are great, but you alway have that risk of the drive failing and taking your 500gb with it(it happened to me....(sigh..)). the speed of the burn would depend on the speed of the disk spin and how accurate the burner is and how much data you are burning. 1.5tb at 2x would take FOREVER(days at least) 100x would probably be a few hours.

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-05-21
> **monsterstack said:**
>  It looks like internet companies are going to do everything in their power to not upgrade our connection speeds over the next few years. 
It looks like my ISP is coming to the party, sort-of: in one of my local papers this week there was a front-page article about broadband speeds in my area. It kinda contradicted itself: at one point it implied that ALL customers in the area would benefit from twice the speed, and then later gave figures that indicated that some customers in the area currently have speeds that are half of what others in the area get. My own experience I get variable speeds, even with the ADSL2+ modem/router (a "freebie" provided by the ISP, on the condition that I stay with them at least 2 years otherwise I'd have to fork out something like $199 or more) and living about 2km from the nearest telephone exchange. 

I really must sort out the phone wiring here in the Lisati household (currently relying on an extension chord to the one and only phone socket in the house, have cable and a new socket, just haven't gotten round to installing it properly yet)

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-05-21
> **lisati said:**
> It looks like my ISP is coming to the party, sort-of: in one of my local papers this week there was a front-page article about broadband speeds in my area. It kinda contradicted itself: at one point it implied that ALL customers in the area would benefit from twice the speed, and then later gave figures that indicated that some customers in the area currently have speeds that are half of what others in the area get. My own experience I get variable speeds, even with the ADSL2+ modem/router (a "freebie" provided by the ISP...

Bottom line is, in too many countries internet service is a scandal...A handful of telecoms are throttling speeds for average users because they "own the pipes"...Always complaining about having to deliver more and more multimedia bandwidth.  They want to force you into forking out more $$$ for premium service...

At my current lousy adsl speeds, in the time it takes me to download a linux live cd iso I could probably drive to the library, dl it using their T1 line, copy it to usb and be back, with an hour to spare

---

### Post by gn2 on 2009-05-21
Optical media is too unreliable to be anything other than disposable.

When a 1.5tb blank costs 50p and the writer drive costs under £20 I might consider using them.

(that won't be soon)

---

### Post by handy on 2009-05-21
[Quote=lisati]
Although unlikely to affect computer users much these days even the humble cassette is still going strong. (I haven't used a cassette-based storage on a computer for nearly 20 years)

[http://www.3news.co.nz/Rewinding-bac...3/Default.aspx](http://www.3news.co.nz/Rewinding-bac...3/Default.aspx) [/quote]

> 
**Police still rely on cassettes as many lawyers don't trust digital technology.** 

[quote=logos34]interesting...didn't know that [/quote]

I worked for a couple of legal firms & I have to say that they were dumb as dogshit when it comes to using computer technology.

There was a particular barrister (outside of the people I worked for) that used Mac's in his office & no one in the office could be educated (multiple phone calls) to save their documents in a format that other non-Mac people could read. :confused:

Good god (sorry I didn't mean that) barristers are payed huge amounts per quarter hour, yet they still can't learn how to communicate with their associates.

Working for the legal eagles taught me a lot about how dumb (in practical terms) they are.  They had the same mentality as the management of the car dealerships I worked for.

Glib lipped, fast brained, *practically* useless, & totally untrustworthy. From my experience.

They were ALL 12:00 flashers.

---

