---
title: "R.I.P. stray."
date: 2009-11-08
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by dragos240 on 2009-11-08
It looks like the stray that we've seen for months has...... passed. He's usually here for dinner, but not tonight, it's just utter silence. We fed him breakfast. He may have been hit by a car. Unless we see him soon, we're assuming the worst.

Rest in peace stray :(.

:-({|=

---

### Post by Tipped OuT on 2009-11-08
Stray as in stray cat? What the...

Oh well. R.I.P.

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2009-11-08
> **Tipped OuT said:**
> Stray as in stray cat? What the...

Oh well. R.I.P.

Yep. Stray cat. He was (is I hope) so friendly. I loved him. We all did.

---

### Post by wulfgang on 2009-11-08
Cats always come back. However, a neighbor's dog killed my cat. :(

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2009-11-08
Maybe Animal Control got him?

---

### Post by Giant Speck on 2009-11-08
You probably didn't love it enough.  Oh well.

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-11-08
> **wulfgang said:**
> Animals always come back.

The strays we used to feed usually did. We've even had one bring a dead kitten to look after. I think one of the local tom cats might have attacked it, but by the time the mother cat decided to set up shop in one of our cupboards, it was too late to do anything for it. Quite sad, I was at the computer at the time and noticed she was up to something and thought I spotted a kitten in her mouth, but didn't check immediately.

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2009-11-08
> **MasterNetra said:**
> Maybe Animal Control got him?

Unlikely.

---

### Post by RiceMonster on 2009-11-08
> **Giant Speck said:**
> You probably didn't love it enough.  Oh well.

lawl

---

### Post by Dimitriid on 2009-11-08
Strays don't live long, too many speeding maniacs. Best you can do if you find a stray is get him to get its shots and take him into your house.

---

### Post by -grubby on 2009-11-08
Sad, but I doubt he's dead - he's not been gone very long.

---

### Post by hoppipolla on 2009-11-08
aww I'm sorry to hear that man ._.

Well done for taking care of it though :)

---

### Post by Tipped OuT on 2009-11-08
> **Dimitriid said:**
> Strays don't live long, too many speeding maniacs. Best you can do if you find a stray is get him to get its shots and take him into your house.

Yes, let's all pick up random stray cats off of the streets and waste our money on getting them shots and having them live in our house.

---

### Post by hoppipolla on 2009-11-08
> **Tipped OuT said:**
> Yes, let's all pick up random stray cats off of the streets and waste our money on getting them shots and having them live in our house.

I actually think it's quite a sweet idea, if you are in a position to do it :)

---

### Post by pwnst*r on 2009-11-08
dogs before cats.

---

### Post by Firestem4 on 2009-11-08
> **Tipped OuT said:**
> Yes, let's all pick up random stray cats off of the streets and waste our money on getting them shots and having them live in our house.

> **hoppipolla said:**
> I actually think it's quite a sweet idea, if you are in a position to do it :)

My old dog, Lizzy (lizzie?)was sort of a stray. My dad almost ran into her while driving through New Mexico before I was born. She was a pup and some people were throwing them (unfortunately it was more than 1 puppy) out of their car in traffic. My dad took the dog and I remembered growing up with her.

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-11-08
> **hoppipolla said:**
> I actually think it's quite a sweet idea, if you are in a position to do it :)

We've taken in strays before, three of which produced kittens. Had to give this up when we moved to a place where we weren't allowed pets, but that didn't stop one of the local strays trying to adopt us and sneak in. Although there are one or two friendly stray cats in our area now that we've moved to a place where cats are ok, we're not in a position to look after them properly.

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2009-11-09
Yay!!! I found out that someone took him to the pound. Now he'll get shots to make him healthy. From there he'll be adopted. We're visiting him on Wednesday.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2009-11-09
Nice ending!

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2009-11-09
Indeed.

---

### Post by Skripka on 2009-11-09
> **pwnst*r said:**
> Cats before dogs.

Fixed, you might say.

---

### Post by GeneralZod on 2009-11-09
Mark thread as [SOLVED] :)

---

### Post by PryGuy on 2009-11-09
Well, my cat was away for about a month. I didn't expect to see him again. But he returned! Being a cat lover I can feel your pain!

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2009-11-09
Well my pain is over. Can't wait 'till Wednesday. We'll be visiting him.

---

### Post by PryGuy on 2009-11-09
Sorry? Did you find him?

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2009-11-09
We have strays in our backyard too (feral cats actually) A female gave birth to four kittens, three survived, she nursedfor three months, then weened them and we didn't see her for almost three months. Feared the worst of course, the one day she just started showing back up. I don't see her EVERY day but at least every other day.

It's amazing how strong some of them can be.

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2009-11-09
> **PryGuy said:**
> Sorry? Did you find him?

We called the pound. I posted this on page 2.

---

### Post by PryGuy on 2009-11-09
Congratulations! Sorry I didn't notice your post. Glad you've found him! :)

---

### Post by chucky chuckaluck on 2009-11-09
> **dragos240 said:**
> Yay!!! I found out that someone took him to the pound. Now he'll get shots to make him healthy. From there he'll be adopted. We're visiting him on Wednesday.

this is a 'no kill' pound?

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2009-11-09
> **chucky chuckaluck said:**
> this is a 'no kill' pound?

Perhaps. We didn't take him there. It doesn't have a website. Or even a webpage. We'll need to call them.

---

### Post by pwnst*r on 2009-11-09
> **Skripka said:**
> Fixed, you might say.

wrong i might say.

---

### Post by Skripka on 2009-11-09
> **pwnst*r said:**
> wrong i might say.

I thought I'd at least get an "lol" at the pun I snuck in there....

---

### Post by Cuddles McKitten on 2009-11-09
They put the little guy in the kitty hoosegow?  You should bail him out so he can live free once again.

---

### Post by pwnst*r on 2009-11-09
> **Skripka said:**
> I thought I'd at least get an "lol" at the pun I snuck in there....

i smirked!! hehe

---

### Post by JDShu on 2009-11-09
I like happy endings :D

---

### Post by mudguts on 2009-11-09
I was going to suggest that perhaps your neighbours offered better food... but I see that things worked out.

Awesomesauce!

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2009-11-10
> **mudguts said:**
> I was going to suggest that perhaps your neighbours offered better food... but I see that things worked out.

Awesomesauce!

Good idea! Put awesomesause on the food. :p

---

### Post by chucky chuckaluck on 2009-11-10
> **dragos240 said:**
> Perhaps. We didn't take him there. It doesn't have a website. Or even a webpage. We'll need to call them.

you definitely will have to. depending on how many other cats, or especially kittens, they have, it could all be over soon. don't wait on it.

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2009-11-11
> **chucky chuckaluck said:**
> you definitely will have to. depending on how many other cats, or especially kittens, they have, it could all be over soon. don't wait on it.

We're adopting him anyways. It doesn't matter.

---

