---
title: "10.04 reviewed: &quot;This is the best operating system currently available.&quot;"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Foster Grant on 2010-05-03
Interesting ... [http://lunduke.com/?p=1095](http://lunduke.com/?p=1095)

From the summary:

> Ubuntu 10.04 ups the ante significantly by bringing polished features that Windows 7 and MacOS X users simply do not have.

The user experience is clean and elegant, with an almost timeless quality to it.  The functionality is advanced and the integration between applications superb.

Add to this the fact that Ubuntu 10.04 has 3 years of full support ahead of it, and I’d say, with out a doubt…

Ubuntu 10.04 is, by far, the best operating system for desktops, laptops and netbooks available today. I highly recommend this release both both personal and business use.  For existing Linux users, Mac users or Windows users.

This is a big freaking deal.

This is not a matter of “one day, Linux will be ready for the desktop”.  Nor is this a hopeful proclamation of “This year… this year will be the year of desktop Linux”.

This is it.  This release, of this particular Linux distribution, is astounding and competitive with both Windows and Mac.  No.  Strike that.

Ubuntu 10.04 blows them out of the water.

---

### Post by praveesh on 2010-05-03
Everybody can have their own opinion .

---

### Post by Viva on 2010-05-03
I concur

---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2010-05-03
Try telling that guy it shouldn't have been released.

---

### Post by m4tic on 2010-05-03
We all have blogs. Try getting Ubuntu on BBC

---

### Post by Shakz on 2010-05-03
Yeah I am a big fan of those guys. I like the Linux Action Show and all of the others for that matter. I do have to disagree with Bryan though, and lean more toward what Chris said about it in this weeks LAS podcast. 
I have tested software for over 10 years and I can tell you almost right away if software is easy to break. 
Well in its current condition Lucid is too fragile. 
I am now. Only been running linux at home for a bout 7-8 weeks. I ran Karmic for a month...then Lucid for a couple of weeks...up untill a couple of days ago. I have gone back to Karmic. I may load it back up in a few months or just hold off till 10.10. Dunno yet.

---

### Post by drawkcab on 2010-05-03
> **m4tic said:**
> We all have blogs. Try getting Ubuntu on BBC

[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/8326264.stm](http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/8326264.stm)

---

