---
title: "2.12 Splash Screen Winner"
date: 2005-09-07
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by weekend warrior on 2005-09-07
Here it is folks - the winner for the new splash screen in Gnome 2.12  What do you think?


[IMG]http://ftp.gnome.org/pub/GNOME/teams/art.gnome.org/contests/2.12-splash/Splash-GNOMEInSilkEvolving2.png[/IMG]

Personally speaking, well...  :-k  It's different.

---

### Post by crun on 2005-09-07
Hmm... I like the 3D logo, but the "2.12" seems a bit out of place. Not sure what it's supposed to represent, or if it's just a pretty picture.

The winning artist's [page on art.gnome.org](http://art.gnome.org/users/Xilef)

---

### Post by Stormy Eyes on 2005-09-07
It doesn't do anything for me. I'll probably stick with Blackbox.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2005-09-07
Well...It's all about taste I guess. But not mine I'm afraid :/

---

### Post by lao_V on 2005-09-07
I think its quite weak. "Gnome" is not very easy to read and is quite bland along with "2.12" and I can't even figure out what the flaking object is meant to be!! The foot???

---

### Post by Stormy Eyes on 2005-09-07
[QUOTE=lao_V]I think its quite weak. "Gnome" is not very easy to read and is quite bland along with "2.12" and I can't even figure out what the flaking object is meant to be!! The foot???[/QUOTE]

Yeah, it looks like the foot. I think it looks like crap, but I wasn't on the committee. Besides, I'm a bit of a snob when it comes to art.

---

### Post by lao_V on 2005-09-07
Personally, I think, this one looks much better[ Gnome 2.12]("http://ftp.gnome.org/pub/GNOME/teams/art.gnome.org/contests/2.12-splash/Splash-GNOMEInSilkSolid.png")

---

### Post by Stormy Eyes on 2005-09-07
[QUOTE=lao_V]Personally, I think, this one looks much better[ Gnome 2.12]("http://ftp.gnome.org/pub/GNOME/teams/art.gnome.org/contests/2.12-splash/Splash-GNOMEInSilkSolid.png")[/QUOTE]

I agree.

---

### Post by Lovechild on 2005-09-07
I'm waiting for them to completely remove the splashscreen, it doesn't present any relevant information, it hurts distro branding (presenting several logos after each other namely bbootsplash, gdm and gnome).

It serves no purpose, it's insane.. please kill the splash for 2.14 GNOME developers. 

When all the SoC start up hits CVS, the optimal scenerio would be GNOME just popping up so deadfast we can believe it, without displaying useless crap.

---

### Post by Wolki on 2005-09-07
It's something different... I like it's look, too blue for me though. Gnome 2.10's was better, but that one was a really nice Idea and you can't have that each time. Why not go for something artistic once in a while?

Anyway, it doesn't really matter, it's not like Ubuntuers will see a lot of it. I'm interested more in the Ubuntu Gnome 2.12 splash.

---

### Post by TristanMike on 2005-09-07
Not my taste, but whatever. The thing that bothers me is that it was made with mac/windows software. I would think that the winner of something like this should be created out of Linux only software(Wine/Cedega, etc. doesn't count). Maybe it could never really be proven but still.

---

### Post by bored2k on 2005-09-07
Personally, I don't like it. It looks like I just barfed at the logo and it dispersed. It also feels like X-Mas.

---

### Post by XDevHald on 2005-09-07
Sorry to say, but the word GNOME in the background is horrific with that image.

---

### Post by mike998 on 2005-09-07
One word : YUK!
It's way too busy with the dissolving Gnome Foot (is this a portent of events to come?)  I do agree, the non-dissolving foot looks WAY better...
I'll stick with a custom splash screen.

---

### Post by papangul on 2005-09-07
The caption by the artist is "simply evolving", but it seems to convey "simply dissipating". Is this art? This is *art.

---

### Post by Brunellus on 2005-09-07
plop, plop, fizzzz...

the message:

GNOME:  JUST LIKE RECOVERING FROM A HANGOVER

---

### Post by weekend warrior on 2005-09-07
Lol  :mrgreen: -  I *do* have to admit that Alka Seltzer ***was*** the very first thing that came to mind when I saw it.


[IMG]http://img349.imageshack.us/img349/4214/alkaseltzer3ky.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by poofyhairguy on 2005-09-07
[QUOTE=weekend warrior]Lol  :mrgreen: -  I *do* have to admit that Alka Seltzer ***was*** the very first thing that came to mind when I saw it.


[IMG]http://img349.imageshack.us/img349/4214/alkaseltzer3ky.jpg[/IMG][/QUOTE]


Me 2.

---

### Post by Spoofhound on 2005-09-07
If the intention is to indicate  "finally, all of the pieces fall into place" - then it makes sense, but still looks awful.

It could mean "GNOME 2.12 - watch it dissolve in front of your very eyes"....but I think it looks like an ad for a treatment for Athlete's Foot

---

### Post by poofyhairguy on 2005-09-07
[QUOTE=Spoofhound]
It could mean "GNOME 2.12 - watch it dissolve in front of your very eyes"....[/QUOTE]


VERY LOL...i just embarrased myself at a public terminal by laughing too hard.

---

### Post by X-fact0r on 2005-09-08
[QUOTE=poofyhairguy]Me 2.[/QUOTE]
LoL, same here :) 

I also agree that the splash sucks real time...

---

### Post by manicka on 2005-09-08
Just awful - to blue and kde like

---

### Post by bob_c_b on 2005-09-08
[QUOTE=TristanMike]Not my taste, but whatever. The thing that bothers me is that it was made with mac/windows software. I would think that the winner of something like this should be created out of Linux only software(Wine/Cedega, etc. doesn't count). Maybe it could never really be proven but still.[/QUOTE]

Was it made with Win/Mac software? If so, I agree with your feelings.

---

### Post by lao_V on 2005-09-08
We don't all live in an ethical world not do we?
Sometimes, we may need to switch to a practical world too.

---

### Post by TristanMike on 2005-09-08
[QUOTE=bob_c_b]Was it made with Win/Mac software? If so, I agree with your feelings.[/QUOTE]Yeah, the author says on the comments of that image.[QUOTE=Xilef]I used Cinema4D and Photoshop.[/QUOTE][QUOTE=lao_V]We don't all live in an ethical world not do we?
Sometimes, we may need to switch to a practical world too.[/QUOTE]I'm curious, are you saying that that same crappy Splash Screen couldn't be done in Linux or that Linux can't create crappy Splash Screens, please elaborate. :)

---

### Post by primeirocrime on 2005-09-08
hey! that must be one of the ugliest things Man ever made.

---

### Post by bob_c_b on 2005-09-08
[QUOTE=lao_V]We don't all live in an ethical world not do we?
Sometimes, we may need to switch to a practical world too.[/QUOTE]

Situational ethics really don't work, this is a case where F/OSS tools are available and should have been used. Of course there is some software and some circumstances where that isn't possible, but I don't believe this was one. 

And if the artist was going to completely ignore the F/OSS culture the least he could have done was make something less..... insert your own description.

---

### Post by poofyhairguy on 2005-09-08
[QUOTE=lao_V]We don't all live in an ethical world not do we?
Sometimes, we may need to switch to a practical world too.[/QUOTE]

Not for something as simple as a splash screen. It should have been done using OSS tools, it doesn't matter THAT much.

---

### Post by escuchamezz on 2005-09-08
that splashscreen sucks so much, imagine these guys taste on women LOL

---

### Post by weekend warrior on 2005-09-08
Well I can see I didn't need to add a poll! Looks like 100% "**bleh!**" so far. Interesting in such a diverse forum, *nobody* has come out in full-blooded support for this splash screen. 

Out of curiosity I downloaded the Gnome 2.12 LiveCD and the splash screen currently in 2.12 isn't Alka-Seltzer. It's one with a vertical solid foot to the left side that mimics the wallpaper and much nicer. 

One thing I find a bit odd is that Gnome 2.12 has been released with a bugged Clearlooks default theme. The top window corners are rounded *and* pointed at the same time. That's pretty careless imo. If it were one of the others then fine, but the default theme...?

---

### Post by Ride Jib on 2005-09-08
I have had bowel movements that look better than that thing.

---

### Post by poofyhairguy on 2005-09-08
[QUOTE=weekend warrior]
One thing I find a bit odd is that Gnome 2.12 has been released with a bugged Clearlooks default theme. The top window corners are rounded *and* pointed at the same time. That's pretty careless imo. If it were one of the others then fine, but the default theme...?[/QUOTE]

Its because of Cairo I think. A new Clearlooks theme is being made just for Cairo.

---

### Post by racecat on 2005-09-08
Wow! Seems like some of us really don't like this. I personally DO kind of like it. Why is it important?

I guess I'm missing the point.

Bill

---

### Post by xequence on 2005-09-08
I dont really like it... But heh.

But is it just me or do we not see a gnome splash screen? Keep it that way ;)

---

### Post by benplaut on 2005-09-08
[QUOTE=Lovechild]I'm waiting for them to completely remove the splashscreen, it doesn't present any relevant information, it hurts distro branding (presenting several logos after each other namely bbootsplash, gdm and gnome).

It serves no purpose, it's insane.. please kill the splash for 2.14 GNOME developers. 

When all the SoC start up hits CVS, the optimal scenerio would be GNOME just popping up so deadfast we can believe it, without displaying useless crap.[/QUOTE]

it's easy to remove, but, still, it'll never be removed by default  :roll:

---

### Post by Lux Perpetua on 2005-09-08
My thoughts:

1) The 3D dissolving/whatever foot is a good idea and very well executed. 

2) Why are the ends of the word "Gnome" cut off? Much of the word is also obscured by the foot. The composition is botched. If you look at the artist's page on art.gnome.org, interestingly, there are various versions of this same image, and none of them really gets it right. 

3) Who cares if he used proprietary software? Maybe he doesn't want to spend eternity learning a new program, having already mastered another suitable one (and having a deadline to meet!). Maybe he's tried the open source alternatives and just prefers this one. I'll stop speculating here, because *it doesn't matter why he used what he used*. Come on, people, let the artist choose his method. If children start dying or the air turns brown or you lose your job, then get worked up about it; otherwise, let it be.

---

### Post by TrailerTrash on 2005-09-08
well...I guess its OK.. O:)

---

### Post by weekend warrior on 2005-09-09
> Written by **poofyhairguy**
Its because of Cairo I think. A new Clearlooks theme is being made just for Cairo.
Fair enough then, especially if they're working on reducing the pixelation of those rounded corners.

---

### Post by TristanMike on 2005-09-09
[QUOTE=Lux Perpetua]3) Who cares if he used proprietary software? Maybe he doesn't want to spend eternity learning a new program, having already mastered another suitable one (and having a deadline to meet!). Maybe he's tried the open source alternatives and just prefers this one. I'll stop speculating here, because *it doesn't matter why he used what he used*. Come on, people, let the artist choose his method. If children start dying or the air turns brown or you lose your job, then get worked up about it; otherwise, let it be.[/QUOTE]And maybe there were other just a suitable choices that the artist decided to use F/OSS software. But you're right, it's not a problem, just a dissapointment.

---

### Post by bigzak on 2005-09-09
Like most people in this topic, I am really not impressed with it. Alka Seltzer was the first thing that popped into my head too.

[QUOTE=Lux Perpetua]1) The 3D dissolving/whatever foot is a good idea and very well executed. [/QUOTE]

In what way is it a 'good' idea specifically? It's an idea, but I'm not entirely sure what it's supposed to represent - hangover cures or a desktop that falls apart. Combine that with the fact that I had to conciously figure out what it was before I realised that it was supposed to be the Gnome foot, and the word GNOME being almost entirely obscured by the particles and low contrast, and you can see why many think that it's not been very well executed :)

---

### Post by Lux Perpetua on 2005-09-09
I just think it looks cool, and it's nicely rendered with good highlights and shadows. In that sentence, I wasn't including the "GNOME" in the background. (I agree, that part is poorly executed.)

---

### Post by Totzo on 2005-09-09
I think that I've seen some inspired splash screens in my time and this one just looks crap in comparison, how it won anything is amazing to me!

---

### Post by egon spengler on 2005-09-09
It took me a few seconds to discern it was supposed to be the gnome foot but I think it's a nice render. Not sure if I'd agree that "Too blue" is much of a criticism and I don't think that the word Gnome being partially concealed is much of a hinderence. I mean it's far from the first instance of that style of composition ever being used so I don't know where the shock comes from, plus anyone who ever sees that splash screen is either going to know that they are using Gnome or not care that they are using Gnome so I don't think it's that important

---

