---
title: "10/10/10"
date: 2010-10-09
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by nlsthzn on 2010-10-09
So it just turned the 10th of October 2010... and as was expected no Ubuntu 10.10 yet (not that I am upgrading but I can remember waiting up throughout the night waiting for the next release :))

---

### Post by Lucradia on 2010-10-09
> **nlsthzn said:**
> So it just turned the 10th of October 2010... and as was expected no Ubuntu 10.10 yet (not that I am upgrading but I can remember waiting up throughout the night waiting for the next release :))

Yes, it basically is a good idea to wait for 12 PM Pacific time for the full ISO release. if you have the RC/beta, you already have the full release.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-10-09
The best thing to do is to subscribe to the [ubuntu-announce]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce") mailing list, you'll be notified by email when the final is released.

If you live west of the [International Date Line]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPpWCTHjzQI"), you'll have to wait until the 11th.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-10-09
> **nlsthzn said:**
> So it just turned the 10th of October 2010... and as was expected no Ubuntu 10.10 yet (not that I am upgrading but I can remember waiting up throughout the night waiting for the next release :))

See this forums sticky ^^^

---

### Post by JustinR on 2010-10-09
Its only 10/09 where I live.

Still waiting :popcorn:

---

### Post by 23meg on 2010-10-09
> **cariboo907 said:**
> The best thing to do is to subscribe to the [ubuntu-announce]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce") mailing list, you'll be notified by email when the final is released.

If you live west of the International Date Line, you'll have to wait until the 11th.

There are other ways to be notified of the release as well; you can learn about them in [the sticky thread about downloading the final release]("http://ubuntu-virginia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1589308").

---

### Post by nlsthzn on 2010-10-09
:lolflag:

Just messing with you guys... Looked at the watch and it went from 23:59 to 00:00 and needed to post something ;) (Think I will be sticking to 10.04 seeing as it is **LTS**)

---

### Post by inobe on 2010-10-09
i wait a few extra weeks, i take my time backing up data onto external media gradually, i never upgrade, always clean, i tend to research bugs many may experience and prepare myself, i try not to jump into something without having a backup plan, new distributions, new problems if any :)

---

### Post by Speed_arg on 2010-10-09
If I were you I would wait 4 or 5 months until critical bugs are corrected.

I hope they delay the release until 29/10

---

### Post by nlsthzn on 2010-10-09
> **Speed_arg said:**
> If I were you I would wait 4 or 5 months until critical bugs are corrected.

**I hope they delay the release until 29/10**

But why?

---

### Post by sideaway on 2010-10-09
well it's nearly 10am here on the 10th of the 10th in 2010 :)

Good ol' New Zealand :) Oh a message to you guys in the past... the future is a bright sunny day so far! the world has not yet ended :)

---

### Post by Speed_arg on 2010-10-09
> **nlsthzn said:**
> But why?

Releasing a more polished with fewer bugs version. Also IMO when you download the ISO it should come with all the updates. Say you download 10.10 in 4 months, you get it with all the updates, like LTS when they make 10.04.1, but daily.

---

### Post by James7 on 2010-10-09
It'll be exciting when it's out!

I'm already using the RC on my laptop, but I'll want a torrent of the full version to do a clean install on my main machine.

This is the best upgrade I've seen, and I started with Feisty! :D

---

### Post by sideaway on 2010-10-10
I think the lucid upgrade was really nice, it'll be good to see maverick :) How many hours until release? If I'm unlucky I might not get it until the 11th, and that won't be cool :(

---

### Post by lisati on 2010-10-10
Forty two! :D

---

### Post by kingrobdun on 2010-10-10
11:59 pm

---

### Post by nlsthzn on 2010-10-10
Still no release... oh well...

---

### Post by Groodles on 2010-10-10
well the torrent files are available (dated 10:22 on 10/10/10) but the tracker is currently offline.

I guess they will bring it up at a similar time to when the website updates from RC to Release.

---

### Post by matthew.ball on 2010-10-10
In irc, at UTC 10:10 it was "officially" announced by robbiew.

The website is updated too.

---

### Post by sideaway on 2010-10-10
yep it's all go, seeding on torrent and DLing via update manager.

---

### Post by nlsthzn on 2010-10-10
Torrents are go!

---

