---
title: "10.04 and Gnome 3.0"
date: 2011-08-13
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2011-08-13
Is there anyone who is using 10.04 downloaded and running Gnome 3.0?

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-08-13
I have done with Xubuntu 10.04, although if I'm honest it didn't go well as my computer has 256Mb RAM. Should have looked at system requirements.

---

### Post by kaldor on 2011-08-13
If your distro does not come with GNOME 3 by default, then I would not recommend even attempting to install it. Do a clean install of Fedora 15 (or Ubuntu 11.10 when it comes out) to enjoy GNOME 3. There are too many changes that would need to be made in order for it to work properly.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-08-13
> **kaldor said:**
> If your distro does not come with GNOME 3 by default, then I would not recommend even attempting to install it. Do a clean install of Fedora 15 (or Ubuntu 11.10 when it comes out) to enjoy GNOME 3. There are too many changes that would need to be made in order for it to work properly.

I agree wholeheartedly with this. Unless it's an extra computer to screw around on.

---

### Post by kmsalex on 2011-08-13
I tried this a few moths ago just by adding the ppa and apt-get installing it, but it only worked once, didn't work after reboot... odd. but this has driven me to try installing debain (and getting either testing or unstable) but that will be a new post in a few minutes lol.

P.S. you could get it running in 11.04, or try 11.10 in virtual box<=what i did.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2011-08-13
Can I say Arch with Gnome 3 runs pretty good.

I wouldn't use Ubuntu with Gnome 3 at all. Ubuntu has too many "specialized" changes it doesn't seem to work well with Gnome 3. At least that was my results with 11.04.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-08-14
> **LowSky said:**
> Can I say Arch with Gnome 3 runs pretty good.



Yes, you *can* say this. But the average ubuntu user may have problems with arch. Actually, I think most linux users are because of someone that "helped" it along. 

I'm sure G3 runs beautifully with arch, but most people around here use ubuntu/mint/peppermint/crunchbang/kubuntu.........

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-08-14
Below is link for ppa gnome-shell is only in 11.04 and 11.10
I have one install of 11.04 that I have dedicated to Gnome3 it is a work in progress.
[http://www.ubuntuupdates.org/ppas](http://www.ubuntuupdates.org/ppas)

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2011-08-14
> **MG&TL said:**
> I have done with Xubuntu 10.04, although if I'm honest it didn't go well as my computer has 256Mb RAM. Should have looked at system requirements.

Can I ask how you installed Gnome3.0 on Xubuntu 10.04?  Looking on web and found a couple of step by step guides to install it on 10.04 the repros they suggest don't work.  Just wondering if you compiled it from source!

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-08-14
If you are using 10.04 LTS you probably put a lot of emphasis on stability. If you then add Gnome 3, you end up with untested and unofficial software surely introducing bug into your system. Furthermore, due to the bugs, you will not be able to see the full potential of Gnome 3 and people will be less likely to know how to help you with issues.

If you want to try Gnome 3, you should try a Gnome 3 distribution. Currently Fedora 15 is almost as noob-friendly as Ubuntu and ships with Gnome 3. There are other distributions as well (i.e. Arch). Alternatively, you can wait couple of months for Ubuntu 11.10 which comes with Gnome 3 + Unity as default and Gnome-shell is available in the Software Center (currently 11.10 is in Alpha stage and not very stable).

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-08-14
> **Linux_junkie said:**
> Can I ask how you installed Gnome3.0 on Xubuntu 10.04?  Looking on web and found a couple of step by step guides to install it on 10.04 the repros they suggest don't work.  Just wondering if you compiled it from source!

If you take Xubuntu 10.04 and install ubuntu-desktop then you pretty much end up with Ubuntu. You can try to install ubuntu-desktop and then try to follow the steps in the on-line tutorials. However, first read my previous post above.

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2011-08-15
> **3Miro said:**
> If you are using 10.04 LTS you probably put a lot of emphasis on stability. If you then add Gnome 3, you end up with untested and unofficial software surely introducing bug into your system. Furthermore, due to the bugs, you will not be able to see the full potential of Gnome 3 and people will be less likely to know how to help you with issues.

If you want to try Gnome 3, you should try a Gnome 3 distribution. Currently Fedora 15 is almost as noob-friendly as Ubuntu and ships with Gnome 3. There are other distributions as well (i.e. Arch). Alternatively, you can wait couple of months for Ubuntu 11.10 which comes with Gnome 3 + Unity as default and Gnome-shell is available in the Software Center (currently 11.10 is in Alpha stage and not very stable).

Gnome 3.0 unstable? How do you work that out, its been released officially to the public back in April.  Yes sure it will have bugs but for your information every piece of software has bugs which is why developers keep on working on their software to remove bugs and improve it.

Why are Canonical making it so hard to allow users to install software of their choice, and don't mention the support side because there are plenty of packages in the repros that are not supported by Canonical!

I am seriously thinking of moving away from Canonical's OS (Ubuntu).  Another gripe I have with Canonical is that they don't appear to want to upgrade packages when newer stable versions are released.  As a 10.04 user I'm still using version 3.6 of Firefox when version 5 has been released and is stable.

---

### Post by cbowman57 on 2011-08-15
Easiest way to run Gnome shell on Ubuntu is use the UGR project's recipe.  Or you can download a respin with it already installed.

Personally, my favorite is nothing but Gnome 3.0 installed on Debian net install iso, but that's just slightly simpler than installing Arch. :)

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-08-15
> **Linux_junkie said:**
> Gnome 3.0 unstable? How do you work that out, its been released officially to the public back in April.  Yes sure it will have bugs but for your information every piece of software has bugs which is why developers keep on working on their software to remove bugs and improve it.

Why are Canonical making it so hard to allow users to install software of their choice, and don't mention the support side because there are plenty of packages in the repros that are not supported by Canonical!

I am seriously thinking of moving away from Canonical's OS (Ubuntu).  Another gripe I have with Canonical is that they don't appear to want to upgrade packages when newer stable versions are released.  As a 10.04 user I'm still using version 3.6 of Firefox when version 5 has been released and is stable.

The fact that Gnome team has released Gnome 3 doesn't mean that you can just take it, put it in Ubuntu and it will magically work without flaws. Putting a new piece of software in a distribution requires work and careful testing, this counts double for something as big as a DE. 

Regardless of what you do, you will always have to deal with the trade-off between using the latest software available and using stable software. LTS uses Stable software, intermediate releases use the latest software. In couple of months, Gnome 3 will be stable for Ubuntu 11.10, along with Firefox 5 and Linux kernel 3.0 and so on.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-08-15
> 10.04 user I'm still using version 3.6 of Firefox when version 5 has been released and is stable.Follow simple instructions and 5.0 firefox in lucid is yours.

[http://www.ubuntuupdates.org/ppa/mozilla_team_firefox_stable?dist=lucid](http://www.ubuntuupdates.org/ppa/mozilla_team_firefox_stable?dist=lucid)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-08-15
I wish people would get the terminology straight, Gnome 3 is just a set of libraries, what you want is gnome-shell, there is a ppa for Natty, but anything older is pretty iffy. Oneiric currently uses the gnome 3 libraries, and Unity and Gnome-shell both work well.

If you want to try gnome-shell and help test and report bugs, I'd suggest creating a small partition and install Oneric, If you can run it in a VM, you've got enough room for a small partition.

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-08-16
Apologies, cariboo. Learn something new everyday. :)

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2011-08-16
I've gone off the idea of wanting to install Gnome 3 on 10.04 I'll just stick to Gnome 2.30 until I decide to upgrade either next year or 2013 when support (for desktop) runs out.

---

