---
title: "Why does the TV mess with the monitors?"
date: 2008-06-02
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2008-06-02
I have a 32 in. T.V. about 6 feet away from my monitors. Whenever I turn the T.V. on my monitors go haywire for a couple seconds. Does anyone know why this happens? Is it normal? They are not even plugged into the same outlet. :confused:

---

### Post by bufsabre666 on 2008-06-02
> **swoll1980 said:**
> I have a 32 in. T.V. about 6 feet away from my monitors. Whenever I turn the T.V. on my monitors go haywire for a couple seconds. Does anyone know why this happens? Is it normal? They are not even plugged into the same outlet. :confused:

electricity going through wires generates a small amount of magnetism and magnetism plays with crt monitors

---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2008-06-02
That's interesting. It's amazing that they are that sensitive to magnetic changes

---

### Post by R_T_H on 2008-06-02
But the electrons are guided on the way by magnetic fields? Why amazing that it affects them, as they are charged particles

---

### Post by Captain Oblivious on 2008-06-02
Cell phones have the same effect. Try making a call or having someone call you with your cell phone next to your monitor some day. The monitor flickers a few seconds before the phone rings.

---

### Post by jrusso2 on 2008-06-02
Never place unshielded Speakers next to a CRT monitor.  The magnets will mess it up good.

---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2008-06-03
> **R_T_H said:**
> But the electrons are guided on the way by magnetic fields? Why amazing that it affects them, as they are charged particles

Why yessem. I'sa just guessin' it's only amazin' to us dumb hill folk. Sorra' I aint as learned as you is.
Delusions of grandeur, have we?

---

### Post by imronak on 2008-06-03
Yes, the electromagnetic field from thes e devices (cell phones, speakers and even TV..speakers, etc) make a effect on the crt. If the screen is messed up, you should Deguass the screen which is an option in the monitor options, degaussing is removing the unwanted magnetic field from the tube.

Long exposure to these devices may cause permanent harm, so you should reconsider placing things differently, to avoid interference, trial and error might be  a very good approach here.:)

---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2008-06-03
> **jrusso2 said:**
> Never place unshielded Speakers next to a CRT monitor.  The magnets will mess it up good.

I had a green area near the top of my monitor. I moved the speaker off the top of it, and it's gone now.

---

### Post by R_T_H on 2008-06-03
> **swoll1980 said:**
> Why yessem. I'sa just guessin' it's only amazin' to us dumb hill folk. Sorra' I aint as learned as you is.
Delusions of grandeur, have we?

No. You were asking, I was answering. Maybe delusions regarding the polite way to conduct a conversation, by responding to what someone said. If so, it's certainly a shared delusion.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2008-06-03
> **swoll1980 said:**
> They are not even plugged into the same outlet. :confused:

It's nothing to do with the power supply. The Cathode Ray Tubes used in old-style (ie: non flat panel) TVs and monitors use magnetic fields to steer the beams which "paint" the image onto the screen. If you want to see this in action, (very briefly!) place a powerful magnet next to a CRT and it'll distort the whole image towards it.

They also have some stupidly high voltage components inside them, which can create interference when they're switched on/off. That's also why you should never open up a CRT yourself, as there are seriously lethal voltages inside, even after it's been switched off.

---

### Post by ARhere on 2008-06-03
> **bufsabre666 said:**
> electricity going through wires generates a small amount of magnetism and magnetism plays with crt monitors

You are mostly right, it is due to magnetism but the field created by the wires would be too small unless they are rapped around the CRT's or carrying hundreds of amps.

When you first turn on the TV, the electromagnetic pulse generated by the [cathode ray tube]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cathode_ray_tube") first forms and flows away from your TV.  (*look it up, it is fun stuff*:)) Even though your monitors are 6 feet away, it does not take much of a field to disturb the flow of electrons striking the fluorescent screen.  Once the TV is on, the field stabilizes and the interference stops.

For fun, try rotating your TV 90 degrees then turn it on again, you might see the effect get worse or better, according to the polarity of the generated field.

Enjoy,  -AR

---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2008-06-04
> **R_T_H said:**
> No. You were asking, I was answering. Maybe delusions regarding the polite way to conduct a conversation, by responding to what someone said. If so, it's certainly a shared delusion.

You were not answering anything. The question had already been answered. You were merely being condescending to my reply. If you don't know the difference is maybe your not as smart as you think you are.

---

### Post by R_T_H on 2008-06-05
Hm... I see what you mean. I apologise. However, I've never claimed to be clever, and I am sorry that I have caused you to think I am arrogant.

---

