---
title: ".NET, the fall of MS Windows?"
date: 2006-01-06
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Kimm on 2006-01-06
I've been thinking about this for a while and todays I desided to post about it.

A while back, Microsoft introduced the .NET framework, created as a competitor for Sun Java and undoubtedly preparation for their move to the 64 bit platform.

a .NET program, is, as I am sure you all know, bytecode compiled and does not run directly on the CPU, much like a Java program. This means that it can run on any platform with the capability of running .NET software. 
More and more companies develop their software for .NET, and why shouldnt they, they wount have to optimize it to 64 bit when MS makes the move and more people should be able to run it. Even MS developes software using .NET.

This is where Linux and [Mono](http://www.mono-project.com) comes in

> 
Mono provides the necessary software to develop and run .NET client and server applications on Linux, Solaris, Mac OS X, Windows, and Unix


Mono is still not perfect, but [WinForms](http://www.mono-project.com/WinForms) is under active developement.

As computers get faster, the bridge between bytecode software and "normal" software get smaller, soon, we will not be able to notice the differance. And from personal experience mono applications run just as fast as any normal application on my 1.7 Ghz Intel Celeron, 256 Mb RAM (Banshee anyone?)
When Mono reaches maturity you will be able to run a large quantity of windows software directly on your linux computer. When Linux can run these application just as well as Windows, why would you want to by your OS, when you can have the same apps in a better one?

---

### Post by Mr. Electric Wizard on 2006-01-06
I have been watching the mono development for some time and I am very excited about it...
I am a .Net developer for my "main" job, and I would love nothing more than to be able to have Linux on my desktop and still maintain my current apps and write new ones in Linux.

It's still too early for me to jump into mono land. but I am definatley waiting.  and grinning.:p

---

### Post by Derek Djons on 2006-01-06
> When Mono reaches maturity you will be able to run a large quantity of windows software directly on your linux computer. When Linux can run these application just as well as Windows, why would you want to by your OS, when you can have the same apps in a better one?

There are many factors which make companies and Home Users decide to switch. In general both parties are willing to pay if a product is being taken care of, support remains for several years and it's ease.

I read an interesting article which very clearly stated that Linux is not a replacement product. It can't replace Windows (for example). But it can be an alternative.

Basically I see it this way:
Microsoft is slowly changing it's strategy. Their main focus for home users is not to just bring out a new Windows version every couple of years. They want to take part of the whole Media / Lifestyle experience. Linux is a bit different. The OS itself is a way to construct your own customized and moduled OS which by coincidene is UNIX based. If there are any projects going on to enlight our Media / Lifestyle they are being made by other people in the community. But the main focus of the OS will not be to make your more happy.

For only this reason Micrsoft will keep it's own audience for the upcoming years.

---

### Post by Bandit on 2006-01-06
I would like to quote Skipper from the movie Madagascar:
"Smile and wave boys, smile and wave.."

---

