---
title: "9.04 total downloads?"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by toupeiro on 2009-04-26
Just curious if any officially published unique download reports have come out about Jaunty?

---

### Post by I-75 on 2009-04-26
While this cannot be the most reliable method of counting, it does provide a healthy "snapshot" of how many torrents are out there....and this is just from one site...

____________________________

Ubuntu 9.04 desktop

5189 seeders  775 leechers
____________________________

Ubuntu 9.04 amd64 

2136 seeders 222 leechers

___________________________

Ubuntu 9.04 alternate

1182 seeders  171 leechers

____________________________

Figures from ISO Hunt 9:40 am @ April 26 2009

---

### Post by Grant A. on 2009-04-26
Due to ðe servers pretty much exploding for 3 days, I'd say ðat ðe turn out was bigger ðan ever before.

---

### Post by ssam on 2009-04-26
another incomplete source of information is the popularity contest.
[http://popcon.ubuntu.com/](http://popcon.ubuntu.com/)

about 1 million users have enabled popcon reporting in the statistics tab in system->administration->software-sources.

---

### Post by kk0sse54 on 2009-04-26
> **Grant A. said:**
> Due to ðe servers pretty much exploding for 3 days, I'd say ðat ðe turn out was bigger ðan ever before.

Is it that much of a trouble to write in readable english?

---

### Post by MikeTheC on 2009-04-26
> **C!oud said:**
> Is it that much of a trouble to write in readable english?

[font=arial]&#7812;&#7717;&#7833; &#7695;&#557; &#7833;&#7761;&#7797; &#347;ãý &#357;&#293;&#257;&#359;? It looks &#421;&#279;&#341;fëçt&#314;&#375; readable to me.[/font]

---

### Post by gymophett on 2009-04-26
1,040,211..

---

### Post by zmjjmz on 2009-04-26
> **Grant A. said:**
> Due to **ð**e servers pretty much exploding for 3 days, I'd say **ð**at **ð**e turn out was bigger **ð**an ever before.

I thought those went out of style here a few months ago.

---

### Post by gymophett on 2009-04-26
> **zmjjmz said:**
> I thought those went out of style here a few months ago.

That was in style? I thought it was majorly annoying.

---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2009-04-26
> **zmjjmz said:**
> I thought those went out of style here a few months ago.

He must have seen them in a post from 2005, and thought they were cool.

---

### Post by CJ Master on 2009-04-27
> **swoll1980 said:**
> He must have seen them in a post from 2005, and thought they were cool.

What is it anyways... I thought it was just a glitch on my computer.:P

---

### Post by Bölvaður on 2009-04-27
> **CJ Master said:**
> What is it anyways... I thought it was just a glitch on my computer.:P

Look for þred started by Laroza, named something like "return of the þorn" or thorn... or w/e


> **zmjjmz said:**
> I thought those went out of style here a few months ago.
I though it was very funny :( but it is very late and I probably will laugh at anything -.-

---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2009-04-27
> **Bölvaður said:**
> Look for þred started by Laroza, named something like "return of the þorn" or thorn... or w/e


Lets not start this again. There were blood feuds started the last time, and I think people were getting banned over it.

---

### Post by aktiwers on 2009-04-27
My real name has þ in it :P

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-04-27
>      Quote:
                                                                      Originally Posted by **CJ Master**                     [[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/viewpost.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7157304#post7157304")                 
                 *What is it anyways... I thought it was just a glitch on my computer.:razz:*
                                 
Look for þred started by Laroza, named something like "return of the þorn" or thorn... or w/e
Please don't use either the thorn (þ) or the eth (ð) as they are no longer used in English.

> Originally Posted by [B]aktiwers 
[/B]My real name has þ in it :razz:
In that case the thorn would be allowed, if you so choose to use your name.  

From the [Ubuntu Code of Conduct]("http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy"):

> Please refrain from using "leet" speak or slang.>      Quote:
                                                                      Originally Posted by **Bölvaður**                     [[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/viewpost.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7157381#post7157381")                 
                 *Look for þred started by Laroza, named something like "return of the þorn" or thorn... or w/e*
                                 
Lets not start this again. There were blood feuds started the last time, and I think people were getting banned over it.     I don't see anyone getting banned over this, but warned or infractionated that is a possibility.

---

### Post by schauerlich on 2009-04-27
> **swoll1980 said:**
> He must have seen them in a post from 2005, and thought they were cool.

November 1st, 2008. Here's the thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=967275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=967275)

I'll admit, I used thorn a bit when that thread was going on. But then I realized that I didn't care, and moved on with my life.

---

