---
title: "Is 10.10 substantially different from 10.04?"
date: 2011-04-14
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Learning Linux 2011 on 2011-04-14
Why is 10.04 "Long Term Support", but 10.10 isn't?

---

### Post by rosencrantz on 2011-04-14
Because they don't want to give long term support to too many distributions at once, so they just do it every two years (6.04,8.04,10.04)
If you need your system to run reliably without experimenting, use LTS. If you want the hot new stuff, update always to the current Ubuntu.
In day-to-day use, no big difference.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-04-14
There are a fairly large number of applications to support with each version yes.

Ubuntu is based on Debian, and when it was released was targeted to fill in the gaps between releases of debian stable and provide a predictable time schedule of releases (every 6 months).

Canonical committed to providing long term support to the LTS releases, which are scheduled every 2 years.

This is roughly equivalent to 

Debian stable - every few years, it is ready when it is ready == Ubutu LTS

Debian testing == The non LTS.

Here is an old link that discusses some of the initial "justification"

[http://mako.cc/talks/20041013-ubuntu_debian_philosophy/debian_ubuntu_philosophy_technology.html](http://mako.cc/talks/20041013-ubuntu_debian_philosophy/debian_ubuntu_philosophy_technology.html)

Note that dates to 2004.

See also : [http://www.ubuntu.com/project/about-ubuntu](http://www.ubuntu.com/project/about-ubuntu)

> Ubuntu releases

The Ubuntu team broke new ground in committing to a programme of scheduled releases on a predictable six-month basis. It was decided that every fourth release, issued on a two-year basis, would receive long-term support (LTS). LTS releases are typically used for large-scale deployments.

I am sure you can google to find similar discussions.

On that note, how many here recall ubuntu 4.10 ?

[http://people.canonical.com/~kirkland/Museum/](http://people.canonical.com/~kirkland/Museum/)

My first Ubuntu install was by pinning the Ubuntu repos from a debian testing install :twisted:

---

### Post by Learning Linux 2011 on 2011-04-14
>  There are a fairly large number of applications to support with each version yes. I guess I always thought that 10.10 was fundamentally the same software, just with version upgrades (like Firefox 3.6 for 10.10 as opposed to Firefox 3.5 (or whatever it is for 10.04)). 

Is there some fundamentally different software in 10.10 as opposed to 10.04?


>  Debian stable - every few years, it is ready when it is ready == Ubutu LTS

Debian testing == The non LTS. So essentially 10.10 is like a "testing" release, and 10.04 is like a "stable" release?

---

### Post by rosencrantz on 2011-04-14
> **Learning Linux 2011 said:**
> I guess I always thought that 10.10 was fundamentally the same software, just with version upgrades (like Firefox 3.6 for 10.10 as opposed to Firefox 3.5 (or whatever it is for 10.04)). 

Is there some fundamentally different software in 10.10 as opposed to 10.04?


So essentially 10.10 is like a "testing" release, and 10.04 is like a "stable" release?

No, no fundamentally different software selections. The LTSs are still part of the release cycle, and you need to be able to upgrade from version to version without huge configuration changes, no matter whether one of them is LTS.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-04-14
> **Learning Linux 2011 said:**
> So essentially 10.10 is like a "testing" release, and 10.04 is like a "stable" release?

Essentially that is as close the the debian releases get to the ubuntu releases.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-04-15
> **Learning Linux 2011 said:**
> 

So essentially 10.10 is like a "testing" release, and 10.04 is like a "stable" release?

But it doesn't mean non-LTS releases can't be stable.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-04-15
> **Learning Linux 2011 said:**
> I guess I always thought that 10.10 was fundamentally the same software, just with version upgrades (like Firefox 3.6 for 10.10 as opposed to Firefox 3.5 (or whatever it is for 10.04)). 

Is there some fundamentally different software in 10.10 as opposed to 10.04?


So essentially 10.10 is like a "testing" release, and 10.04 is like a "stable" release?

I am not sure. If 10.10 is a testing release it should be testing post 10.04 stuffs. But from what I can gather 10.10 is a lot like an improved version of 10.04 (works better for me) and it is a lot more similar to 10.04 than 11.04. So it doesn't make a lot of sense if 10.10  is beta for the next LTS (12.04)

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-04-15
I consider it this way:

[LIST]
[*]All software has bugs.
[*]Stability being as in "free of bugs" is impossible, so I prefer to define stability as "predictability" or "lack of change" (both good and harmful).
[*]Ubuntu is very stable, as software only gets security and bug fix updates with every release. Thus software does not change enough to "break".
[*]On the flip side it means it may not receive certain fixes or new feature, however this is the advantage of the 6 month releases.
[*]The LTS is very stable. It has a very long support period and if it works it should stay working for a long time. It also has a more conservative package base so generally is more well tested. This by no means guarantees a problem free experience however by the very nature of this extended support focus it should be more so.
[/LIST]

Essentially, the LTS release has less disruptive changes and works similarly for a long period of time. If that appeals to you, then use the LTS release. If you like a nice stable (unchanging) snapshot of newer features then use the current release. Again by its newer nature and smaller intended period of support you may run into more issues. Then again you may not. They are certainly not intended to be problematic and no less work goes into them.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-04-15
10.04 is supported for longer. It also is a little more conservative in package version choice because of that. Otherwise, there's really few changes. If you don't need the longer support period, then just use 10.10, or better yet just go for 11.04 which will be officially 'final' soon and will be a regular release.

---

### Post by Lucradia on 2011-04-15
My Wireless in my ASUS 1015PE works in 10.10, but not 10.04, so yes, there is a difference :V

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-04-15
The kernel , some software version and applications are different  If you are planning to install 11.04 via upgrade install 10.10 . If you plan do a clean installation 11.04 in a couple of weeks you can wait or pick 10.04 or 10.10.

---

### Post by eveg on 2011-08-12
as desktop, rather than server, will 10.04 be supported only until april of '12, or will it be a few months later, or a year? i read about this somewhere but forgot. 
i know servers are supported for longer than desktops.

---

### Post by kaldor on 2011-08-12
> **eveg said:**
> as desktop, rather than server, will 10.04 be supported only until april of '12, or will it be a few months later, or a year? i read about this somewhere but forgot. 
i know servers are supported for longer than desktops.

[Click]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Ubuntu#Table_of_versions").

---

