---
title: "Ubuntu incremental Updates  -- very important"
date: 2009-12-07
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by savimayur on 2009-12-07
After using for a reasonable time the most annoying thing i noticed is about updates.  

Updates are fine,  they keep your system updated.  

But updates requires a complete file to be downloaded.  

Ubuntu team should think of updates by way of patches.  This will reduce the volume of traffic generated by ubuntu updates.


Love you all.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-12-07
> **savimayur said:**
> After using for a reasonable time the most annoying thing i noticed is about updates.  

Updates are fine,  they keep your system updated.  

But updates requires a complete file to be downloaded.  

Ubuntu team should think of updates by way of patches.  This will reduce the volume of traffic generated by ubuntu updates.


And your general support question that you have posted in the general support questions forum is???

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-12-07
Moved to Community Cafe.

---

### Post by &#1057;&#1090;&#1088;&#1072;&#1085;&#1085;&#1080;&#1082; on 2009-12-07
Do you mean like deltarpms? I think it was discussed somewhere

---

### Post by Nerd King on 2009-12-07
Deltarpm-style updates would be wonderful, and should be considered, it'd reduce the strain on those providing mirrors for ubuntu.

---

### Post by szymon_g on 2009-12-07
deltas are one of the best features in fedora/opensuse.
shame that ubuntu/debian devs didn't 'discovered' it yet :~

---

### Post by Sand &amp; Mercury on 2009-12-07
I've thought that too, though having to download whole packages has never really bothered me unless it's OpenOffice or something.

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-12-07
i like the get it over with approach then being bothered every fifteen minutes.

---

### Post by diesch on 2009-12-07
See [http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/13/](http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/13/)

---

### Post by t0p on 2009-12-07
I don't think there's much of an issue here.  Most updates are very small: under a megabyte I'd say.  And those that are larger than a megabyte are usually only a few MB.  How big are the largest?  40 MB or so?  Still pretty small.

Also, when update manager says there are, for example, 8 files to download, you don't have to download all 8 at once.  You can grab a couple, then a couple more at a later date.

No problem here.  Move along.

---

### Post by openuniverse on 2009-12-07
.

---

### Post by Chame_Wizard on 2009-12-07
Updates are much better than patches(see M$),since you can have a lot of fixed software mix.

---

### Post by BrokenKingpin on 2009-12-07
The way it works now is fine with me.

---

### Post by RiceMonster on 2009-12-07
Fedora does this sort of thing with delta rpms

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2009-12-07
There was some discussion about this [https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2009-July/028529.html]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2009-July/028529.html")

---

