---
title: "... so i had to use my windows parition the other day..."
date: 2008-11-09
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by hardyn on 2008-11-09
I have been full time ubuntu for about 2 years now, quite enjoying it.  the other day i had to bring some work home, thus had to dust off my windows partition... ... ... holy crap is it slow!  I used to think windows was pretty lively on my machine, guess not.

sort of a silly story, i was just really floored at how much better performance i get out of ubuntu, it was actually hard to use windows.

for those that care:

P-M 2.1Ghz w/ 2gb ram and nvidia 6600go-128mb.

---

### Post by squeabs on 2008-11-09
I've run into this problem before. I had gotten so used to the speed and workings of ubuntu that, when I had to use windows for something, I thought my computer needed a tune up. After some comparing, I found that windows simply sucks up more resources than needed.

---

### Post by etnlIcarus on 2008-11-09
I'm running a pretty mediocre 512mb RAM and Athlon 2800+ and I find the opposite is true; my rather disused XP + BBClean shell is snappier than my ubuntu command-line install + Xfce4.6 beta.

---

### Post by Grant A. on 2008-11-09
My Windows Partition is just as fast as my Kubuntu/Ubuntu partitions. I simply removed the bloatware HP put on it, runs like an ibex on steroids.

---

### Post by PurposeOfReason on 2008-11-09
Sounds like you didn't customize, optomize, or prepare your XP parition like you did with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-09
I had to use my Vista partiton last weekend, but first I had to fix it, for some reason since I removed my two eSata drives that I needed to backup my server after a problem with the raid array. Vista seemed to loose its partition. I put my Vista Ultimate DVD in a safe place and now have forgotten where it was. I managed to find a Beta 2 dvd in my shop and got things working again. There are two web sites that just plain don't work with Firefox and Linux. So I have to use Vista to acces them. The thing that really sticks out for me is how much longer Vista needs to start up and shut down. 

Also every time I need  to use Vista it has to configure updates on start up and install updates on shutdown. Can't Microsoft do something to fix this? I mean Ubuntu installs upgrades in the background and never has to configure anything on startup or install updates on shutdown.

I think it is about time after all this years that Microsoft should create a system that can multitask properly. Have you ever tried to do anything eles while windows is updating? The computer usually comes to a stand still. 

It usually takes me 5-6 hours to fully install windows with all the updates and programs I normally use. I just Installed Jaunty on a couple of spare partitons and including updates and installing the programs I regularilly use I was done in just a little over an hour.

Jim

---

### Post by Grant A. on 2008-11-09
That's a bit harsh, don't you think? I mean Windows can do pretty much anything with the proper configuration, and Ubuntu out-of-the-box, or any new system for that matter, it would take hours to get it *exactly* it your liking.

---

