---
title: "Idea: Smart to-do list"
date: 2009-04-14
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by PacSci on 2009-04-14
I came up with an interesting idea the other day - a "smart" to-do list. It would consist of a daemon floating in the background, as well as several clients. When you had something that you needed to do, you could just pop up a client and type in a short sentence. The to-do list would then automatically parse everything for you and make assumptions based on your sentence.

For example, typing "email mom about garage cleaning by 12:30 friday" would add a to-do list task, set the due date to that Friday at 12:30, and hook it up so that whenever you click the task in a menu or something, it would open your mailer with a new message to your mom with the subject "Garage cleaning".

Similarly, "run sudo apt-get install alien!" would set up a task that would run that command. The "!" at the end would tip off the to-do list that the task was high priority. You could also set up tasks that would run repeatedly: "surf slashdot.org every weekday by 13:00". If you had something that would normally be interpreted as a command, postfix it with a semicolon: "run to richway and pick up some hefty bags;".

The whole idea behind the sentence setup is that it makes it easier for people to write the tasks while it's still fresh on their mind, and it's portable to a lot of clients - e.g. a command, a Gnome Do plugin, etc. It would basically scan through the sentence word by word (noting any ending punctuation), match a type, and then match prepositions as options to the type.

I've already come up with an vague idea of how the parser will work. The hardest part of it all will be figuring out how all of this will work together. Anyway, now I have to "write essay for school by friday!"

---

### Post by Mokoma on 2009-04-14
yay things to slow down linux O.o

---

### Post by OutOfReach on 2009-04-14
I actually quite like this idea

---

### Post by PacSci on 2009-04-14
@Mokoma: What do you mean, "slow down Linux?" If you're referring to the daemon, its only job would be to wait for a task's due date and generate reminders. It would only use about as many resources as cron. Though in retrospect, I might not even include the daemon for the first iteration, and reminders would only be generated by open clients, or by services that are already active like cron or at. The whole design is supposed to be quick, and to integrate with existing tools.

---

### Post by gnomeuser on 2009-04-14
The one obvious problem with the syntax you describe is that.. well you know not everyone speaks or writes English. Having it all be translatable makes for an impossible task since the way you express things in English isn't the same in every other language.

What you could do was to have a todo list like Tasque that interacts with Remember the Milk. Then attach common keywords, tags or emblems to each task to link it to applications. 

An example could be "mail Mal details about party". Mail could be a keyword (these are easily translatable and we can have intellisense like completion on them), and we have your contact list so we can infer to whom you will write, for multiple contacts drop down a selection box or something akin to gnome-do like completion. 

Thus clicking this entry could be easily made to open a composer with the subject and recipient set correctly. 

If we also have access to your calendar data and the party details are available say as "Party at Janes house at 21.00", again we know have Janes contact information and we can look up his address with a map service like Google Maps, This data can be embedded in the mail easily as well so Mal has driving directions from his house.

When the mail has been send a signal back to the todo list via dbus could get it entry crossed out and marked as being completed.

---

### Post by PacSci on 2009-04-14
Maybe I should have explained the parser a bit better. I'm not skilled enough to write a true natural language parser yet, so let's break down how it would process "email mom about garage cleaning by 12:30 friday", my first example:

[LIST]
[*]There's no special punctuation at the end, so treat this like a normal, average-priority task.
[*]The first word is "email". That's a registered task type, so look up the prepositions it accepts - okay, we've got "about", and the built-in prepositions "every" and "by" apply.
[*]The second word is "mom". That's not a recognized preposition, so we'll pass it directly to the type.
[*]The third word is "about" - that's a preposition, so I'll start collecting arguments for it.
[*]The fourth word is "garage" - that's not a preposition, so I'll add it to about's list.
[*](Same for the fifth word.)
[*]The sixth word is "by" - that's a system preposition, so I'll save the arguments for it somewhere else.
[*]The seventh word is "12:30" - it goes to by. (By interprets it as a time.)
[*]The eighth word is "friday" - it also goes to by.
[/LIST]

By the end, it might have a call that looks like:

```
task = EMailTask('mom', about=('garage', 'cleaning'))
duedate = process_by('12:30', 'friday')
db.add(task, due=duedate)
```

So it does operate by keywords, and would be translatable. It's just supposed to be a bit more transparent to the user.

---

### Post by rushmobius on 2009-04-14
It is an interesting idea.

One thing I used to like when setting up a contact in Outlook(though it may have been another program), was the ability to just type in a block of information. It would then parse out the first/last name, phone number, email, city etc.

Actually, with some of the features of Gnome-DO, it may make sense to create a task plug-in that does just that.

Then I could just hit <special>+<space> and type in 'todo pay bills on Friday, doctor's appointment on 4/18 at 2:30' etc.

---

### Post by PacSci on 2009-04-14
One problem with natural language that I can see is that a to-do list is naturally imperative. "pay bills on Friday" would be detected, and since pay wouldn't be recognized as a verb, it would just be a "generic" item (but "on" would be recognized and the task wouldn't appear until Friday). I suppose that "doctor's" would work using that too, but it would be hard to figure out a verb that could be used for things like that. "go to doctor's appointment on 4/18 at 2:30"?

And, like I mentioned, a Gnome Do plugin would be one of the first things to be implemented for it (besides a command line tool).

---

### Post by rushmobius on 2009-04-14
Ah, sorry. Somehow I missed the paragraph where you mentioned Gnome-DO ;)

Serves me right for scanning topics too fast.

As long as it was developed in an extensible way, the parser could be plug-in based as well and return a collection of entities for the system to evaluate. There may even be existing lexical parsers with international support it can re-use.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2009-04-14
Remember the Milk already does some of this. You can use plain English in your task deadlines ("next Tuesday", "tomorrow") and it'll get the dates right.

There's an AWN applet and desktop apps for Gnome and KDE that integrate RTM. Plus it ties into Google Calendar, Twitter, mobile devices, etc, etc. It's really useful.

---

