---
title: ".htm or .html - Which do you use?"
date: 2007-07-16
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by user1397 on 2007-07-16
Simple poll, which one do you use as the extension for your websites, and why?

I use .html, because that's how I first saw it when I was teaching myself, but I was thinking about switching to .htm (less work :))

---

### Post by aks44 on 2007-07-16
.cgi :mrgreen:

---

### Post by ThinkBuntu on 2007-07-16
Of course .htm. And .jpg, etc...Save a keystroke, save a byte.

---

### Post by Misha22 on 2007-07-16
> **ThinkBuntu said:**
> Of course .htm. And .jpg, etc...Save a keystroke, save a byte.

+1 same here

---

### Post by stepan2 on 2007-07-16
html if i ever use it but my site is msotly php

---

### Post by nrs on 2007-07-16
Aren't the origins of .htm simply a Microsoft exercise in "doing whatever we want"? That's the story I heard at least. 

I doubt you'll find many people that have a good reason why they prefer one of the other (one that actually matters this in age :P). I have an irrational hatred of .cpp (everyone knows .cc is only proper extension)

---

### Post by ThinkBuntu on 2007-07-16
> **nrs said:**
> Aren't the origins of .htm simply a Microsoft exercise in "doing whatever we want"? That's the story I heard at least. 

I doubt you'll find many people that have a good reason why they prefer one of the other (one that actually matters this in age :P). I have an irrational hatred of .cpp (everyone knows .cc is only proper extension)
.htm makes more sense semantically. foo.js means "foo written in javascript", with no need for .jsl, which would mean "foo written in javascript language." Likewise, "hypertext markup" is sufficiently descriptive. To not contradict myself, I also need to support .xm and .xs for .xml and .xsl, respectively...ah well, comes with the territory.

---

### Post by Polygon on 2007-07-16
i think htm was used becuase DOS had  8.3 character naming limitation, so a name could only be 8 characters + 3 for the extention or something.... so html had to be shortened to htm

---

### Post by user1397 on 2007-07-16
Wow, a lot of people said they used .html instead of .htm (22 vs 3) so I guess it really is more popular.  But as others have said, .htm is just simpler, and makes more contextual sense.  What gives?

---

### Post by Spaceman3750 on 2007-07-16
I use .htm...  Shorter.

---

### Post by ~LoKe on 2007-07-16
As far as I can remember, htm was only used because DOS systems couldn't handle extensions over 3 characters or something similar.  HTML is correct, but htm is acceptable.  I just use PHP and make my life easier.

---

### Post by Spaceman3750 on 2007-07-16
> **~LoKe said:**
> I just use PHP and make my life easier.

Mine seems to get harder...  The PHP interpreter is never correct about where the error is.

---

### Post by user1397 on 2007-08-24
hmm...need more results!

---

### Post by Darkhack on 2007-08-24
I use .html because...

1. That is the W3C standard - [http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/intro/intro.html](http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/intro/intro.html)
3. That is what I first saw
3. That is what most users are familiar with and what everyone else uses.

---

### Post by user1397 on 2007-08-24
> **Darkhack said:**
> I use .html because...

1. That is the W3C standard - [http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/intro/intro.html](http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/intro/intro.html)
3. That is what I first saw
3. That is what most users are familiar with and what everyone else uses.u did 3 two times :)
but yea i agree with u, except for the part that "everyone uses"

I've seen a lot of websites that end in .htm, and I think it might be closely concerned with the fact that microsoft likes htm better than html.  for example, microsoft frontpage defaults to htm

---

### Post by picpak on 2007-08-24
I used to use .htm simply because it was shorter, but now I don't see the point. It's just one less "l"!

Nowadays I use mostly PHP...and even then I use a .htaccess that removes the .php extension from the URL. :)

---

### Post by Spr0k3t on 2007-08-25
The .htm is a creation of MS to assist those with problems accessing the files in dos.  The official standard however is html.  When building stanard templates for a larger site, I always utilize html as the extension.  Even during the days of dos, I still used html.

---

### Post by southernman on 2007-08-25
Without the language what good is the markup? ;)

---

### Post by user1397 on 2007-08-26
bump

---

### Post by some_random_noob on 2007-08-26
> **Spr0k3t said:**
> The .htm is a creation of MS to assist those with problems accessing the files in dos.  The official standard however is html.  When building stanard templates for a larger site, I always utilize html as the extension.  Even during the days of dos, I still used html.
Exactly. I was told on the IRC recently that you're meant to use ".HTML" - my Apache2 server had a file called "index.htm" and it wasn't working. The guy on the IRC told me to call it "index.html" and then my site started working. He told me that using ".htm" is a Microsoft habit. 

We're winning in the polls by the looks of it.

".html" it is!

---

### Post by curuxz on 2007-08-26
should always be .html

htm was another Microsoft annoyance.

---

### Post by loell on 2007-08-26
i've experienced DOS, and got used to the three letter extension, hence .htm

---

### Post by TeaSwigger on 2007-08-26
W3C sez it's .html... who am I to argue? ;) .html it is!

---

### Post by samjh on 2007-08-26
I use *.html because I like to use proper names for things, rather than using short names just for the heck of it.  HTML is just that: HTML, not HTM. :p

---

### Post by popch on 2007-08-26
To the internet user it does not matter at all. 

To the person who has to build and maintain the site is matters a bit because the environment (OS, web engine) associates some 'extensions' with particular programs or actions.

Hence, in most OSs you use .html, in Windows .htm.

---

### Post by user1397 on 2007-08-26
> **popch said:**
> To the internet user it does not matter at all. 

To the person who has to build and maintain the site is matters a bit because the environment (OS, web engine) associates some 'extensions' with particular programs or actions.

Hence, in most OSs you use .html, in Windows .htm.I use .html in Windows, and I haven't had any problems with any sites...other than that I agree with you on every other point.

---

### Post by use a name on 2007-08-26
.html of course. That's what it is and I've proudly left the DOS age 8.3 restriction behind me.

---

### Post by Dr Small on 2007-08-26
.html

.htm reminds me of Microsoft Word, so I quit using it long ago.
But, I normally use .php :p

Dr Small

---

### Post by Rhapsody on 2007-08-27
I used to use .html (and still do for one page on my old site) but use .php these days.

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2007-08-27
I almost always use php, but I use htm instead of html, if I have a static page.

---

### Post by user1397 on 2007-08-28
I wish I knew php...:(

---

### Post by eukhost.com on 2007-08-29
I use .php, but if I  had to choose between .htm and .html, I would go with .html as .htm feels somewhat 'incomplete'.

---

### Post by Jongleur on 2007-08-29
html every time.

htm = HyperText markup what?

Another MS deviation.

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2007-08-29
> **ubuntuman001 said:**
> I wish I knew php...:(

See my wiki, get the tutorial, and the documentation, and get started.

---

### Post by popch on 2007-08-29
> **Jongleur said:**
> html every time.

htm = HyperText markup what?

Another MS deviation.

That's not so nonsensical as you may think. Hyper Text Markup Language is the language (surprise) to write Hyper Text Markup with. 

An even more logical extension would be .ht for Hyper Text. After all, the file does not contain (just) markup and does not contain a language at all. 

But then, logic or reason does not have anything to do with it at all.

---

