---
title: "Things To Do With Motion Detection #9: check your sleep pattern"
date: 2011-10-29
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by SteveDee on 2011-10-29
Looking for new applications for motion detection, I took my Santa Claus Detection System ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1648738&highlight=santa](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1648738&highlight=santa)) and turned the camera on myself...and then fell asleep!

To be more precise, I trained the camera on my head and let it run over night. So in the morning I had a bunch of video clips.

I guess most people have seen those sleep pattern graphs which show how we alternate between deep and shallow sleep through the course of the night. Could my "research" validate this?

Armed with only Libre Calc and a grade 2 C.S.E. in Woodwork, I set about plotting the number of video clips by time (see plot 1).

Well, this looks promising. At least it goes up and down. But wait a moment, the number of video clips is going to be influenced by the threshold set in Motion. And a video clip generated by a quizzical raise of my left eyebrow should not have the same currency as a full barrel roll!

So my second attempt at number crunching (yes, I'm really getting into the swing of this now) was to value each video clip based upon file size (see plot 2).

This looks more like it. By adding the video clip file sizes and plotting the 30 minute total value (in MB) I seem to have a graph I can hang my hat on. There is probably some more tuning to do, as I have to admit to leaving the "gap" setting at the 60s default value.

But it started me wondering: (1) does body movement actually relate to the depth of sleep? (2) how does the movement of your nocturnal partner(s) influence your movements? (3) does sleeping on a water bed invalidate the results?

Well, now that's sorted, I've got to give my mates over at Cern a hand to sort out those naughty neutrinos. This science lark is easier than I thought!

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-10-29
> **SteveDee said:**
> does body movement actually relate to the depth of sleep?

AFAIK, yes. When you're in REM you lose all muscle tone. So you'd only be able to move around when you're not in REM.

---

### Post by SteveDee on 2011-10-30
> **Paqman said:**
> ...When you're in REM you lose all muscle tone....

Yeah, listening to REM sends me into a coma....
...but I guess you're talking about Rapid Eye Movement. Your comment led me to this article: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sleep](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sleep)

Apart from the stuff on REM & Non-REM, I was amazed by how many sleep related disorders there are, and while each only affects a small percentage of the population, we all have a reasonable chance of suffering from at least one of them. Some of them sound very unpleasant. Mine may be OSA (Obstructive Sleep Apnia) but could be Catathrenia. Either way, it bugs my wife!

In order to work out which it is, what I need now is some way of capturing sound, which unfortunately is not possible with Ken Lavrsen's Motion application.
I guess I could record everything, then scan through with Sweep looking at the trace, but that could be tedious.

Anyone know of a Linux app which triggers on sound and saves to file?

Getting back to REM, I can't think of a practical way of monitoring this using a camera (unless I clamp my head in a vice). But I plan to repeat my test with the camera mounted above my head, looking down. And I'll tune Motion config to give more and shorter files (maybe gap=5s) with a lower threshold setting. I may write some code (possibly within Libre Calc) to create the plots in 15min segments from the captured files.

But for my insomnia, I'll just load my MP3 player with REM and keep it on the bedside table!

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-10-30
> **SteveDee said:**
> 
In order to work out which it is, what I need now is some way of capturing sound, which unfortunately is not possible with Ken Lavrsen's Motion application.
I guess I could record everything, then scan through with Sweep looking at the trace, but that could be tedious.


Go for your life, but if you're worried about it I'd say have a chat to your GP (especially if it's upsetting the domestic harmony). A GP can refer you to a sleep lab where they can diagnose any problems you might have properly.

---

