---
title: "802.11 Authenications"
date: 2007-09-24
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by ev5unleash1 on 2007-09-24
Well I have a bit of a large Home network and I want it secure. I'm running two routers one with 802.11 B with WEP encryption and 802.11 G with WPA-Personal Encryption. And when I was looking around I saw that there was a feature out there that let a server authenticate a certain computer on the network before it's allowed in. I was wondering if I could find a program that authenticates users over the internet before connecting so I know who is connecting and only systems I want connecting. I use Windows and Linux so I'm looking for software for any of those Operating Systems.

---

### Post by lisati on 2007-09-24
Some routers let you set a "MAC" address (unique to every computer) so that only certain computers can connect, and that any computer not on the list doesn't get through, even if they have the correct WEP or WPA key. Is this the kind of thing you were thinking of?

---

### Post by ev5unleash1 on 2007-09-24
That's a great idea because i was scared of hackers when I read a couple articles that let you acually hack into Wireless networks. But I would like to have more hands on control then that like I was saying to have an authentication server that validates if the computer has the proper stuff to connect. Like I know I was at this one office with my laptop and they had wireless networks there and they all did not ask for a password they asked if I had a cadreial or something (I don't know the proper word) and I be leave that is very secure for there network so only the machines with a proper file can get in.

---

### Post by Depressed Man on 2007-09-24
Maybe you mean certificate? If so then yeah, our university's secure wireless network works like that. It requires you have to the certificate on your computer and its matched up with the one on the server.

---

### Post by ev5unleash1 on 2007-09-24
Yeah, I was wondering if I could do that with my network. I just got done using the MAC interface. All computers are in. So do you or anyones else know how to do that?

---

