---
title: "...So who else eats at their computer?"
date: 2007-07-22
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by thegnome87 on 2007-07-22
Do you feel people often eat at their computer because they're bored, it's anxiety reducing (need to have a sip of something every few minutes ahhhhh!), or because people eat less and less together with family at their tables?

I once spilled grape juice all over a keyboard and surge protector. :o  Fortunately it wasn't a laptop so that only spelled the end for that keyboard. Needless to say I didn't learn my lesson after several close encounters. 

But sometimes when you're sitting down and watching something really good you feel the need to pause it and say damn that deserves a sip of coke and a sandwich for some extra emotional punch, at the possible expense of the poor computer.

Is it just me or is it becocming an issue with alot of people?  *crickets chirp and checks myself into nearest mental facility*:biggrin:

zomfgPoNIezzz youtube OC clips...popcorn time :popcorn:

---

### Post by RAV TUX on 2007-07-22
> **thegnome87 said:**
> Do you feel people often eat at their computer because they're bored, it's anxiety reducing (need to have a sip of something every few minutes ahhhhh!), or because people eat less and less together with family at their tables?

I once spilled grape juice all over a keyboard and surge protector. :o  Fortunately it wasn't a laptop so that only spelled the end for that keyboard. Needless to say I didn't learn my lesson after several close encounters. 

But sometimes when you're sitting down and watching something really good you feel the need to pause it and say damn that deserves a sip of coke and a sandwich for some extra emotional punch, at the possible expense of the poor computer.

Is it just me or is it becocming an issue with alot of people?  *crickets chirp and checks myself into nearest mental facility*:biggrin:

zomfgPoNIezzz youtube OC clips...popcorn time :popcorn:

My keyboard makes an excellent place mat. ;)

---

### Post by starcraft.man on 2007-07-22
Uh..... only thing I ever consume near a PC is my morning orange juice. That though is kept a good 4 feet away from my tower and I've never spilled it anywhere. That said, I don't think anyone should eat/drink near their PC, I've seen far too many accidents.

---

### Post by johnny4north on 2007-07-22
oo.  ooo i do.  i spilled my hi octane kool aid on my 2nd fav. keyboard:( three days ago.  now im using a cheapy keyboard.  computers make food look and taste better. :)

---

### Post by shen-an-doah on 2007-07-22
I eat near my laptop pretty much all the time... Somehow I've never managed to have an accident.

---

### Post by Dimitriid on 2007-07-22
I eat at the pc all the time, but i take precautions. Have you ever bought one of those gatorade bottles that wont spill even if you tip em over and you can still just press it to drink? Always use one of those. I have dropped said bottles on my keyboard but it had no damage at all since only a few drops spilled out.

I though it was silly that they forced us to use those "security cap" bottles and those fancy starbucks coffee mugs but once you put your own pc at risk by accident you realize is a good idea.

---

### Post by jrusso2 on 2007-07-22
I am cooking pop tarts on the cpu now

---

### Post by johnny4north on 2007-07-22
oo.  ooo i do.  firefox lag, oops.  update corrected it :).  my linux box makes it possible for me to eat and compute.  im very happy, now.  i just need a waterproof mouse.

---

### Post by walkerk on 2007-07-22
i eat at the kitchen or dining table with my family.. :O

---

### Post by LookTJ on 2007-07-22
Not me, I eat/drink while watching TV.

---

### Post by trak87 on 2007-07-22
> **thegnome87 said:**
> Do you feel people often eat at their computer because they're bored, it's anxiety reducing (need to have a sip of something every few minutes ahhhhh!), or because people eat less and less together with family at their tables?

Sugar, caffeine and foods that convert quickly to sugar (white flour) will increase anxiety greatly.

---

### Post by celsofaf on 2007-07-22
Never, ever I eat at the computer. Very bad habit, very risky to damage parts (right now and in the long term) and doesn't help to keep your computer clean.

---

### Post by Adamant1988 on 2007-07-22
I eat next to my laptop all the time.  I'm ALWAYS drinking something at my computer too.

---

### Post by trak87 on 2007-07-22
For what it's worth:

Article: [http://science.slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=07/07/14/2257216&from=rss](http://science.slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=07/07/14/2257216&from=rss)

---

### Post by shen-an-doah on 2007-07-22
I'm eating at my laptop right now. Mmmm, giant buttons...

---

### Post by bread eyes on 2007-07-22
I eat at my computer when I'm hungry and at my computer.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-07-22
That reminds me....I should probably clean the crumbs out of my keyboard....:lolflag:

---

### Post by bastiegast on 2007-07-22
Now that my family is on vacation I also have dinner at my computer:neutral: In fact, I put my computer on the dining table :/ 
I once spilled drink over my keyboard but it still works fine, I did ruin another keyboard with coffee.  Not to worried I might spill drink over my pc, it has a case anyway should offer enough protection, Im not going to test though.

---

### Post by happy-and-lost on 2007-07-22
I have anywhere between 5 and 15 empty Coke cans on my desk around my laptop at any one time. I've spilt tea on it once, but only on the corner (phew!).

---

### Post by xpod on 2007-07-22
I`m pretty insistant on family meals round the table at meal times but other than that i have a cup of tea,can of coke,daughters bottle and a bag o grapes on & around the pc i`m sitting at right now :)

I turn my keyboard upside down every night and give it a shake,plus I clean everything  out every couple of months anyway.

There just big dirt magnets if you dont keep em clean:)

> I have anywhere between 5 and 15 empty Coke cans on my desk around my laptop at any one time. I've spilt tea on it once, but only on the corner (phew!).

Plenty ram but no waste paper basket eh:)

---

### Post by glaubergoncalves on 2007-07-22
At the Brazilian forum we call this session "Café com Ubuntu", which stands for "Coffee with Ubuntu" in Portuguese. I might say that I take this expression literally. Pizza with Ubuntu goes just fine too, a sandwich with Ubuntu is just as good. ;)  

> **xpod said:**
> 
I turn my keyboard upside down every night and give it a shake,plus I clean everything  out every couple of months anyway.
   Pretty much the same here, I just don't have the same care of doing it every night... The keyboard spills some crumbs that remind me of my past meals... :)

---

