---
title: "Sneaking linux onto my mothers machine. How to hide grub?"
date: 2006-09-27
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by NoTiG on 2006-09-27
I need windows to boot automatically and grub to be invisible... unless a key is pressed. is this possible btw? I want to install it on her machine so i can configure it... then someday when i feel the time is right im going to switch her!

---

### Post by pay on 2006-09-27
I like your style. Try this [http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Dapper#How_to_change_default_Operating_System_boot-up_for_GRUB_menu](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Dapper#How_to_change_default_Operating_System_boot-up_for_GRUB_menu)
and this [http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Dapper#How_to_hide_GRUB_menu_on_boot-up](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Dapper#How_to_hide_GRUB_menu_on_boot-up)
Good luck.

---

### Post by LotsOfPhil on 2006-09-27
Make the Windows boot the default and put in/uncomment "hiddenmenu" in /boot/grub/menu.lst

---

### Post by NoTiG on 2006-09-27
Alright... so I enabled the hidden menu...... and i set the delay to 0 seconds to boot the default OS.... but the problem is that for a split second you can see the grub program in the top left before it starts booting windows >< . is there any way to make it totally transparent?

---

### Post by skymt on 2006-09-27
No, sorry. Your best bet is to restore the XP bootloader, then put grub on a floppy and boot to that to get to Ubuntu.

---

### Post by NoTiG on 2006-09-27
Maybe if she notices ill just tell her that grub is some kind of windows virus. That will be additional incentive for her to switch and get her mindset in the right path in the long run. devious i know. Then ill just have to use lilo or hide the grub name when she does eventually us linux :P

---

### Post by LotsOfPhil on 2006-09-27
Hmm. I don't know if you need to give up. Here is my /boot/grub/menu.lst (modified for the important stuff):
```

# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#boot=/dev/sda
hiddenmenu
default     0
timeout     10
#splashimage=(hd0,2)/grub/splash.xpm.gz
title Red Hat Enterprise Linux WS (2.4.21-4.ELsmp)
        root (hd0,2)
        kernel /vmlinuz-2.4.21-4.ELsmp ro root=LABEL=/
        initrd /initrd-2.4.21-4.ELsmp.img
...

```

(it's from my redhat box)
I'd just set the timeout to 2 (not zero, so you can always get into grub). The only thing your mom will see is "Press ESC to enter GRUB menu." for 2 seconds. I am guessing that if she isn't going to notice the new OS on her system, this message will fly under the radar too.

---

### Post by NoTiG on 2006-09-27
Lol maybe. although skymt's solution is rather thorough. I wonder if Lilo can be used instead to be transparent. hmmm

---

### Post by xhaan on 2006-09-27
I bet you could use loadlin to start Ubuntu from inside Windows...

---

