---
title: "2.6.25 Kernel"
date: 2008-02-13
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Sciophobia on 2008-02-13
So 2.6.25-rc1 was released, among a huge list of changes... ath5k made it in!

/dance

For those who don't know what that is, say goodbye to Madwifi's partially closed driver, this is an all open driver for Atheros wireless (including draft n).

---

### Post by dca on 2008-02-13
I wanna' use it and see it before I rejoice...  I don't want to have a 11MBs cap or something weird like that...

---

### Post by odiseo77 on 2008-02-13
This might be old news, but according to the [rt2x00 project site]("http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com/wiki/index.php/Main_Page"), the rt2x00 driver has been included in the 2.6.24 kernel as well (for those who don't know what the rt2x00 project is about, it's a project engaged to the development of the different Ralink wireless cards drivers). I'm waiting to test the new kernel to see how my rt2500 card performs there (however, according to the serialmonkey site, the driver version included in the 2.6.24 kernel is somewhat buggy, so I prefer to wait a bit and use a newer kernel, when it's released) :)

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-02-13
i did a kernel upgrade to 2.6.24 at the weekend as an easy way to get my rt2570 working. obviously it borked my nvidia, but it didnt particularly help my rt2570 situation either. it was probably to do with my serial monkey installing and blacklisting and such and i didnt really give it a fair chance. until hardy its probably easier just to install the serialmonkey drivers off the site than mess with a kernel upgrade. ill be looking forward to a clean install of hardy though

anyone know if hardy will have 24 or 25 by default?

---

### Post by PurposeOfReason on 2008-02-13
> **aeiah said:**
> i did a kernel upgrade to 2.6.24 at the weekend as an easy way to get my rt2570 working. obviously it borked my nvidia, but it didnt particularly help my rt2570 situation either. it was probably to do with my serial monkey installing and blacklisting and such and i didnt really give it a fair chance. until hardy its probably easier just to install the serialmonkey drivers off the site than mess with a kernel upgrade. ill be looking forward to a clean install of hardy though

anyone know if hardy will have 24 or 25 by default?

As 24 just recently went stable and hardy is a LTS, I'd put my money on 24.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2008-02-13
Yes, Hard will ship with 24

---

### Post by Sciophobia on 2008-02-13
> **dca said:**
> I wanna' use it and see it before I rejoice...  I don't want to have a 11MBs cap or something weird like that...

Well considering my signal strength with Madwifi is about half what it is in Windows, I'm already sitting at ~11MBs on my wireless desktop, so I'm all for the change as long as it doesn't get worse.

---

### Post by cawill on 2008-02-13
> **Sciophobia said:**
> Well considering my signal strength with Madwifi is about half what it is in Windows, I'm already sitting at ~11MBs on my wireless desktop, so I'm all for the change as long as it doesn't get worse.

I agree, I have the same problem, anyone know if this will fix the problem?

---

### Post by SomeGuyDude on 2008-02-13
I apparently still have 22. How do I go about upgrading? Is there a way to do it that won't, you know, mess any of my data up?

---

### Post by Polygon on 2008-02-13
the latest one in the repos is .22, im upgrading to that right now via update-manager.

You can always upgrade manually by compiling them yourself, but if you dont want to break anything, i would just wait till hardy, where it will come with more recent versions of the kernel

---

### Post by jpittack on 2008-02-13
Check the Master Kernel Thread, its step by step.  If anything goes wrong, boot into your old kernel.  Everything will be back to the way it was.  No data should be affected.

---

### Post by Sciophobia on 2008-02-13
> **cawill said:**
> I agree, I have the same problem, anyone know if this will fix the problem?

No idea, the driver is still in testing, but Madwifi has not been developed much recently and this has.  So I'm assuming that experience leads to better preformance and this is the newest.

> **SomeGuyDude said:**
> I apparently still have 22. How do I go about upgrading? Is there a way to do it that won't, you know, mess any of my data up?

If you check out synaptic looking for linux-image-2.6.24-7 is on there, I thought there was a package that auto updated your kernel.  Im running Hardy and it took me from 2.6.24-5 (or 6 can't remember now) to 2.6.24-7 without selecting it IIRC.

---

### Post by Sunflower1970 on 2008-02-13
As long as my D-Link cards work with this new driver, I'll be ecstatic!

---

### Post by Sciophobia on 2008-02-13
> **Sunflower1970 said:**
> As long as my D-Link cards work with this new driver, I'll be ecstatic!

Well my DWA-556 (PCIe Draft N) card works with the driver, and I think that my card is running one of (if not THE) newest chipset for commercial cards from Atheros.  I think it's a safe bet yours will work too, check the Madwifi site to see if its listed anywhere.  Note that if the card says works with snapshot but not stable, it WILL work with ath5k.

---

