---
title: "11.04 soooo bad"
date: 2011-05-11
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Ghost_Mazal on 2011-05-11
Shees guys , I have been trying to stick it out due to my love for Ubuntu , but 11.04 is just so buggy and sloooooooooooow. It is a real frustration to work on it.

Boot up is slow , log in is slow , opening apps is slow and all general work is just so slow.
I hope it get's fixed very soon with updates. It's the worst one I have used yet and making working on my laptop a real pain in the behind.

Is Kubuntu any better ? Or is it also so slow and buggy ?
Need to start looking for alternatives , and that really hurts.

---

### Post by Islington on 2011-05-11
> **Ghost_Mazal said:**
> Shees guys , I have been trying to stick it out due to my love for Ubuntu , but 11.04 is just so buggy and sloooooooooooow. It is a real frustration to work on it.

Boot up is slow , log in is slow , opening apps is slow and all general work is just so slow.
I hope it get's fixed very soon with updates. It's the worst one I have used yet and making working on my laptop a real pain in the behind.

Is Kubuntu any better ? Or is it also so slow and buggy ?
Need to start looking for alternatives , and that really hurts.

Until you find out *why* it's slow on your system, just randomly switching is illogical.

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2011-05-11
i was only looking when i tried out xubuntu.  like it so much that i just went ahead and switched.

---

### Post by weasel fierce on 2011-05-11
Kubuntu 11.4 is pretty slick :)

---

### Post by nrundy on 2011-05-11
Fast on my box. Are u sure its the distro?

---

### Post by Version Dependency on 2011-05-11
> **Ghost_Mazal said:**
> Shees guys , I have been trying to stick it out due to my love for Ubuntu , but 11.04 is just so buggy and sloooooooooooow. It is a real frustration to work on it.

Boot up is slow , log in is slow , opening apps is slow and all general work is just so slow.
I hope it get's fixed very soon with updates. It's the worst one I have used yet and making working on my laptop a real pain in the behind.

Is Kubuntu any better ? Or is it also so slow and buggy ?
Need to start looking for alternatives , and that really hurts.

I've installed 11.04 on 4 computers so far...and none of them are slow at all.  Did you do a fresh install or an upgrade?

---

### Post by Ghost_Mazal on 2011-05-11
> **Islington said:**
> Until you find out *why* it's slow on your system, just randomly switching is illogical.

I don't see why I should spend days to troubleshoot a bad distro.

> **nrundy said:**
> Fast on my box. Are u sure its the distro?

Yes , 10.04 and previous ran like a dream. And I know I am not the only one. How many threads like this have we seen since 11.04's launch.

> **Version Dependency said:**
> I've installed 11.04 on 4 computers so far...and none of them are slow at all.  Did you do a fresh install or an upgrade?

Fresh install always.

---

### Post by kaldor on 2011-05-11
I had that issue on 10.04.. everything was really slow. By 10.10 it was fixed. Might be some sort of regression on your hardware.

---

### Post by coolbrook on 2011-05-11
Assuming that you're concerned about the the system in your signature, then is there a reason that you opt to use the 32-bit version instead of 64-bit?

---

### Post by Ghost_Mazal on 2011-05-11
> **coolbrook said:**
> Assuming that you're concerned about the the system in your signature, then is there a reason that you opt to use the 32-bit version instead of 64-bit?

Yes I have had troubles with 64-bit software in the past being buggy and temperamental. And sometimes (rarely) couldn't find 64-bit versions of the software I needed.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-05-11
@Ghost_Mazal, I'd suggest you install bootchart, and create a support thread in General Help.  I have a two year old system, AMD X2 240, 2GiB ram and an nVIdia GeForce 210 graphics card. I'm now running Oneiric, but boot times range from about 22 seconds to 28 seconds, and everything works at the speed it should.

---

### Post by Ghost_Mazal on 2011-05-11
Well I don't really want to spend days to troubleshoot and try and fix 11.04. That's why I didn't post in the General help section. basically I just want opinions from the Kubuntu users if Kubuntu 11.04 is good or not. Is either that or I just go back to 10.04 that I know works well. Bit tired of always troubleshooting

---

### Post by el_koraco on 2011-05-11
> **Ghost_Mazal said:**
> Well I don't really want to spend days to troubleshoot and try and fix 11.04. That's why I didn't post in the General help section. basically I just want opinions from the Kubuntu users if Kubuntu 11.04 is good or not. Is either that or I just go back to 10.04 that I know works well. Bit tired of always troubleshooting

Kubuntu 11.04 is freaking awesome. But your problem might be a result of kernel-hardware incompatibility or something completely unrelated to the UI.

---

### Post by dniMretsaM on 2011-05-11
11.04 was much faster than 10.10 on my old (8 years) machine. In regard to your question about Kubuntu, it's amazing. I like Unity (3D), but this computer will only support 2D, which barely worth using, so I switched to Kubuntu. It's awesome! But it's the slowest of the *buntus (afaik), so if it's actually a DE problem, don't use it. I think el_koraco might be right though.

---

### Post by Retlol on 2011-05-11
> **Islington said:**
> Until you find out *why* it's slow on your system, just randomly switching is illogical.

Your logic is flawed, sir

OS is slow, previous OS wasn't, hence it's the new OS's fault. Thus it's logical to switch back or look for an alternative.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2011-05-11
I love how people respond by saying they have installed Ubuntu 11.04, and experience no problems.

I have installed 11.04 on 7 machines. On 3 of them it did run very slow. On those three it was so slow that it was unusable for my needs.

I would give Kubuntu or Xubuntu a try. I chose to go back to 10.04 LTS or installed Debian. Your solution is a choice for you to make; however, your are going to have to try out the choices to determine the best solution for you.

---

### Post by sidzen on 2011-05-11
Hardware being used?
Try either 10.04 or [peppermint]("http://peppermintos.com")  or  [antiX]("http://antix.mepis.org/index.php?title=Main_Page") ,  in that order;
kernel incompatibility with your CPU could be the culprit.
:popcorn:

---

### Post by Ghost_Mazal on 2011-05-12
> **Old_Gray_Wolf said:**
> I love how people respond by saying they have installed Ubuntu 11.04, and experience no problems.

I have installed 11.04 on 7 machines. On 3 of them it did run very slow. On those three it was so slow that it was unusable for my needs.

I would give Kubuntu or Xubuntu a try. I chose to go back to 10.04 LTS or installed Debian. Your solution is a choice for you to make; however, your are going to have to try out the choices to determine the best solution for you.

Thanx Wolf. Yeah it simply is true that 11.04 just is bad. If other don't have problem , good for them. But on my machine it's terrible and unusable. If two other OS's runs fine on the same machine and just 11.04 doesn't then it is the OS. It isn't anything else and the logic is not flawed , and I am definitely not gonna spend days on end trying to fix 11.04 and do developers work for them.

Basically I am torn between going back to 10.04 or try Kubuntu.
My hardware is new and strong enough to run proper OS's so not gonna look into the light weight stuff like Xubuntu etc. If an OS can't run smoothly on my Laptop then it's not the hardware's fault but bad software. Hell even the dark side runs smooth on my laptop.

Thanx for everyone's inputs. Gonna try and decide what to do.

I am thinking either back to 10.04 or the dark side or K. And then have a look again when 12.04 comes.

---

### Post by Oxwivi on 2011-05-12
> **Ghost_Mazal said:**
> I don't see why I should spend days to troubleshoot a bad distro.
What a stupid statement. We're telling you troubleshoot and see if it's the distro's fault in the first place.

---

### Post by ivanovnegro on 2011-05-12
> **Ghost_Mazal said:**
> Well I don't really want to spend days to troubleshoot and try and fix 11.04. That's why I didn't post in the General help section. basically I just want opinions from the Kubuntu users if Kubuntu 11.04 is good or not. Is either that or I just go back to 10.04 that I know works well. Bit tired of always troubleshooting

Kubuntu is just awesome, of course the 11.04 version, forget everything you heard about KDE before, maybe Im biased but it runs like hell, nothing slow.
If you want Xubuntu, even better if you like the Gnome Classic style, also a pleasant release, for Unity I dont know what happened in my case, its simply not smooth enough but the other too are great.
See my sig.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-05-12
If you want it fixed by all means we will help you. Not until you want it fixed will I offer any suggestions. As for switching, feel free, but I believe they are right. Ubuntu is not so different from other distros that switching will fix a problem. Especially a kernel problem. It could be anything, do some looking around first.

If you want to complain, I do not care. At all. Some productive discussion I am open to though. Thank you, and I hope you get your machine working in top form. :)

---

### Post by Ghost_Mazal on 2011-05-12
> **Oxwivi said:**
> What a stupid statement. We're telling you troubleshoot and see if it's the distro's fault in the first place.

No it's not , it's a fact. Other Os's runs smooth like I already said twice , hence it is not hardware , but the software.

> **NightwishFan said:**
> If you want it fixed by all means we will help you. Not until you want it fixed will I offer any suggestions. As for switching, feel free, but I believe they are right. Ubuntu is not so different from other distros that switching will fix a problem. Especially a kernel problem. It could be anything, do some looking around first.

If you want to complain, I do not care. At all. Some productive discussion I am open to though. Thank you, and I hope you get your machine working in top form. :)

The problem is I don't want to try and troubleshoot and find the problem in the software. That is what I do the whole day on Windoze machines. And when I get home I want an OS that works. I am sure the problem can be found and never said it can't be found or can't be fixed. I simply don't have the strength or willpower after a long day of doing just that at work.
At home I just want a system that works well that I can enjoy.

Hence I never asked for help on troubleshooting , merely suggestions on how well the other distro's run.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-05-12
Ah. Well since we have limited manufacturer support its usually a game of hit and miss. I just myself had a headache over a printer so I sympathize. Thing is with 5 minutes of troubleshooting I fixed it so all is well....

---

### Post by Sylslay on 2011-05-12
Well if problem is not easy to fix just do step back. Is faster to do and OS is more stable.

And wait only 6 months for next realise, isn't worth to spend 2 weeks to solve the problem. Just install lastone good.

I did  like that some time ago:
9,04 was great with intel 845
9,10 was bad wisth intel 845 GPU, slow nad chopping video and after 6 weeks testing I back to 9.04 and it was good choice. And overall if software is bit out of day is not big isse for watching movies, play music, copy files :-)

10.04 is working on my old laptop now and will work for long time. Xserver load 1-procent my cpu. When laptop is ide total load is 7-17, (I got plenty power under hood :-) ) when watching movie on vlc is loaad 30 procent (at least 60 at new 11.04).

I do not like new firefox 4.0 (old habbits)
I like 10.04 Gnome-Ubuntu and have most fast OS ever on old machime.

PS. And I had tasted 11.04 on Desktop without any problems,

For me is no diffrenc if I use"

1. Ubuntu 10.04 Linux laptop 2.6.32-32-generic #62-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 20 21:54:21 UTC 2011 i686 GNU/Linux

or
2. Ubuntu 11.04 Linux laptop 2.6.38-9-generic #43-Ubuntu SMP Thu Apr 28 15:25:15 UTC 2011 i686 athlon i386 GNU/Linux

I do same thing, both kernel are compile April 2011. only first works better and not always faster, but steady....for me :-)

---

### Post by ivanovnegro on 2011-05-12
@OP: So, why you are here when you dont want to trouble shoot, with the title in mind of this thread you have to expect comments. Dont understand me wrong, I have also my issues with Unity and it is definiteley Unity and not the Kernel, I think in your case, but if you post on the forums that normally means you are in trouble, so why not solve problems.

@others: Not everyone has problems with Unity but some people have, and thats not to blame Ubuntu as a whole or just the Kernel, Unity is just not working well at all or at least not for all, i cannot understand why people force others to say its perfect when its obvious that it is not. Kernel issues aside, switching to another DE can help because errors in the DE have nothing to do with the Kernel and not with Ubuntu as a whole, Unity has bugs, so has KDE, Xfce and whatever, some more, some less, I have different results with the three mentioned but I admit Unity was not so good on my system as the other two, especially performance, apart from performance I have no problems with Unity, I just dislike it totally and prefer the other ones that are more or less perfectly.
I have old habbits I dont want to change but thats my problem and I know what to do.
So, if people have problems with Unity we can first help solve the issues and if it is not working for them, why not switch to something else but stay within the Ubuntu family.

Too much rant, I know. But I saw this attitude of both camps, I will use the words fanboys and haters, fanboys because they cannot understand that some people cannot use Unity anymore and haters because they are spamming the whole forums with a flame war against Ubuntu because of Unity.
Just choose another thing if you dislike Unity, if you want to flame against Ubuntu, go for another distro. For the people that want to help users with not so good experiences in the Unity world please try to be helpful with them and not just, "hey here its working perfectly", that will not solve their problems, also we know about the alternatives and that even in Ubuntu, so that they can stay within this community if they wish so.

---

