---
title: "8.04 - The first change you make"
date: 2008-04-16
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by farueulogy on 2008-04-16
What's the first thing you are going to change on the fresh install of 8.04?

Lately I've been switching to the tango/clearlooks theme with a the orange heron turned blue and quieter.

[Download the blue heron here]("http://img365.imageshack.us/img365/8972/blueheronnu8.png")
[IMG]http://lh6.ggpht.com/albertblack/SAYWA758taI/AAAAAAAAAJY/ZEsMwjng3sw/s800/blue-heron.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by conundrumx on 2008-04-16
Install Gnome-Do.

---

### Post by Jerry N on 2008-04-16
I change [COLOR="Red"]Visual Effects[/COLOR] to [COLOR="Red"]None[/COLOR]

Jerry

---

### Post by gsmanners on 2008-04-16
I usually delete the top panel. No need for two of those.

---

### Post by mabovo on 2008-04-16
madwifi for atheros ar5418 and isight built-in for uvcvideo module.:(

---

### Post by Kow on 2008-04-16
Disable compiz. Change human theme to whatever I want, then re-enable compiz. Compiz and the human theme do not get along. I'm sure most of you have noticed the window borders suddenly disappearing with the human theme and compiz. Next thing I do is install the nvidia driver, and a bunch of media plugins along with flash, java, etc.

---

### Post by bobdob20 on 2008-04-16
Probably first change the theme and background, then install some different apps like mpd, ncmpc, mplayer, Wicd.

---

### Post by MemoryDump on 2008-04-16
I normally change the theme/background to my liking.. this is of course after applying all the needed updates, installing favourite apps, configuing my nvidia card and sound card!

really loving 8.04!!

---

### Post by roaldz on 2008-04-16
Add repo´s, and then II think its going to be a long apt-get commandline, like:
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install ssh amarok ubuntustudio-audio ubuntustudio-audio-plugins cinelerra gtk-gnutella dvd-rip wine virtualbox-ose linux-generic-rt screenlets
```
And something like Google Earth, Skype, Opera, and so on.. 

Actually, all that matters is SSH. :)

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2008-04-16
Remove firefox. Also I'd change my theme (but thanks to my separate /home partition, I don't need to).

---

### Post by ronacc on 2008-04-16
almost everything. wallpaper , theme ,default browser , default media player , add a bunch of things remove others and just generaly "roll my own"

---

### Post by sebbouckaert on 2008-04-16
First first thing is to edit /etc/fstab to mount my smb shares...then add Thunderbird and from there so on and so on...

---

### Post by tighem on 2008-04-16
> **farueulogy said:**
> What's the first thing you are going to change on the fresh install of 8.04?

Lately I've been switching to the tango/clearlooks theme with a the orange heron turned blue and quieter.

[IMG]http://lh6.ggpht.com/albertblack/SAYWA758taI/AAAAAAAAAJY/ZEsMwjng3sw/s800/blue-heron.png[/IMG]

You have a bigger version of that wallpaper? It looks awesome.

---

### Post by zakk on 2008-04-16
- Disable compiz, tracker, evolution data server and other evolution services
- enable Metacity Compositing (finally, it works)
- Change theme (clearlooks or murrine), icons (tangerine), wallpaper 
- Install some extra software (Inkscape, codecs, VLC, MPlayer, some development tools, Liferea, Thunderbird, VirtualBox, MC and Gnome Commander, Msttcorefonts, lm-sensors, sensors-applet, etc...)

---

### Post by Rinzwind on 2008-04-16
I do this too with 1 alternation:> **gsmanners said:**
> I usually delete the [S]top[/S]bottom panel. No need for two of those.

---

### Post by farueulogy on 2008-04-16
> **tighem said:**
> You have a bigger version of that wallpaper? It looks awesome.

you can [get the blue heron here]("http://img365.imageshack.us/img365/8972/blueheronnu8.png")

---

### Post by tighem on 2008-04-16
> **farueulogy said:**
> you can [get the blue heron here]("http://img365.imageshack.us/img365/8972/blueheronnu8.png")

Thank you! It looks great.

---

### Post by bodycoach2 on 2008-04-16
I change icon theme to echo, install Ubuntu tweak ( [http://ubuntu-tweak.com/](http://ubuntu-tweak.com/) ) and get my home folder and trash icons on the desktop, then blog about what I did. Haven't installed 8.04 yet, and probably won't till two weeks after release.

I'll let ya'll work bugs out first

---

### Post by Hairy_Palms on 2008-04-16
remove tracker/evolution/all-monostuff/palmpilot-stuff
install thunderbird/devede/inkscape
also before hardy i would install brasero and transmission, but they both are default now so i dont need too :D

---

### Post by farueulogy on 2008-04-16
> **Hairy_Palms said:**
> remove tracker/evolution/all-monostuff/palmpilot-stuff
install thunderbird/devede/inkscape
also before hardy i would install brasero and transmission, but they both are default now so i dont need too :DWhat is this love of transmission? Deluge forever.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2008-04-16
I install all torrent apps , the way comcast messes with torrents sometimes one will work when others won't . and k3b for burning , cd's and dvd's , it runs fine under gnome , it just drags in the kde stuff it needs and is way ahead of any gnome apps for burning .

---

### Post by plun on 2008-04-16
Installs ubuntu-restricted-extras

Removes the human theme

:)

---

### Post by ruffneck on 2008-04-16
> **farueulogy said:**
> What is this love of transmission? Deluge forever.

....and ever!!


Install Nvidia drivers, setup resolution perfectly, enable compiz (can't live without it now....things like scale make me more productive), install mplayer, enable universe repos, then tweak theme and everything else till its perfect for me. Oh and disable tracker ..eeeww.

---

### Post by OZFive on 2008-04-16
> **bodycoach2 said:**
>  install Ubuntu tweak ( [http://ubuntu-tweak.com/](http://ubuntu-tweak.com/) )



AWESOME!  I had not heard of that yet, got it now and it is great!

---

### Post by Xzallion on 2008-04-16
First I use Kubuntu, so I switch my task bar from the bottom to the top, set it to Top-Center in the panel properties, and tell it to auto-hide without animation, and colorize according to my theme. I also delete the quick launch thing from it, and set it to only show minimized items.

Second, run updates through the terminal, and then adept since for some reason a few packages won't install using apt-get...  I still don't understand why this is.

Third, Install my Nvidia driver and set my resolution back to its proper setting.

After that I add the medibuntu repo, reinstall firefox-3.0 scribus inkscape gimp vlc w32codecs libdvdcss thunderbird sunbird and dia plus the medibuntu updates.

After that I set my wacom intuos 3 up and am ready to go.  Also I set my background to CrimsonJassic's "Lone Star Babe"

Reason I know all of this? I did it this morning.

---

### Post by HangukMiguk on 2008-04-16
Return to openbox, pretty much tweak everything on my own.

---

### Post by Chilli Bob on 2008-04-16
Install LXDE.

Remove totem gstreamer and install xine.

Add anime wallpaper.

---

### Post by rune0077 on 2008-04-16
> **Chilli Bob said:**
> 
Remove totem gstreamer and install xine.


Good news is, you don't have to remove gstreamer. In Hardy, you can have 'em both.

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2008-04-16
> **bodycoach2 said:**
> install Ubuntu tweak ( [http://ubuntu-tweak.com/](http://ubuntu-tweak.com/) ) 

I hate this whole Ubuntu = FOSS thing. It's not Ubuntu specific.

---

### Post by PurposeOfReason on 2008-04-16
> **bruce89 said:**
> I hate this whole Ubuntu = FOSS thing. It's not Ubuntu specific.
To be fair, it was Ubuntu specific until a bit ago when he re-wrote it. While I appreciate it and all, and not to bash Ubuntu users as many know what they are doing, your average users on other distros know how to do much in CLI and don't need another program. I only say that as his first "port" was to arch where it's all KISS.

If I were to install Ubuntu, there would be no "first changes" as I would do the minimal install. So much easier to add on then to take off.

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2008-04-16
> **PurposeOfReason said:**
> While I appreciate it and all, and not to bash Ubuntu users as many know what they are doing, your average users on other distros know how to do much in CLI and don't need another program.

I wonder if I should find another distro, but I can't be arsed.

I just don't like people thanking the "Ubuntu developers" when it was really someone else.

---

### Post by PurposeOfReason on 2008-04-16
> **bruce89 said:**
> I wonder if I should find another distro, but I can't be arsed.

I just don't like people thanking the "Ubuntu developers" when it was really someone else.
I know what you mean, I was all over that thread when it came out. I sometimes feel as though Ubuntu is getting too simple that it's bringing in an unwanted base (and bad themers, ;)).

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2008-04-16
> **PurposeOfReason said:**
> I know what you mean, I was all over that thread when it came out. I sometimes feel as though Ubuntu is getting too simple that it's bringing in an unwanted base (and bad themers, ;)).

There's been a bad theme since Dapper.

The base thing is true however. I'm a bit ashamed to say I use Ubuntu sometimes in fact. Pathetic, but I don't want to be judged.

---

### Post by PurposeOfReason on 2008-04-16
> **bruce89 said:**
> There's been a bad theme since Dapper.

The base thing is true however. I'm a bit ashamed to say I use Ubuntu sometimes in fact. Pathetic, but I don't want to be judged.

I more mean the themes in the screenshot threads. People are bringing bad taste. :(

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2008-04-16
> **PurposeOfReason said:**
> I more mean the themes in the screenshot threads. People are bringing bad taste. :(

I can't stand any of the Human theme screenshots on Wikipedia. I replace any I come across with screenshots using the GNOME default theme. See [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:Transmission_screenshot_ubuntu.png](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:Transmission_screenshot_ubuntu.png) for instance

---

### Post by xelapond on 2008-04-16
Remove it and install Arch:lolflag:

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2008-04-16
> **xelapond said:**
> Remove it and install Arch:lolflag:

As I said, I can't be arsed.

If I could, it'd probably choose Debian.

---

### Post by Oldsoldier2003 on 2008-04-16
My first thing on my Hardy Installs it to remove that fugly heron wallpaper and the baby poop brown theme...

---

### Post by jazzman65 on 2008-04-16
Well, I probably just have bad taste, but I like the Heron wallpaper and the poopy brown scheme!  Kind of anti-windows if you ask me.  :D

---

### Post by ntowakbh on 2008-04-16
I'll probably wait a couple weeks, for bugs to be fixed up, if I update.  I'll probably update out of curiousity, and give 8.04 a try, but chances are, I'm going to drop Ubuntu soon, for some reason I just like Debian better.

---

### Post by danbuter on 2008-04-16
for me:
install geany libdvdcss2 chkrootkit build-essential
Move toolbar to bottom, delete extra toolbar
turn off all effects

---

### Post by ntowakbh on 2008-04-16
Install VLC, and the plugin for Firefox, remove things I never use like Totem(and its FF plugin), Evolution.

If not included by default, install GNOMEBaker. Install Skype, Thunderbird, Deluge, Frostwire, Opera, ImageMagick.  Edit the main menu to my liking, replace the three seperate menus with only the one main menu.  Change the clock to only display date in panel, move the window list, trash can, and show desktop button to the top panel, remove workspace switcher applet, delete bottom panel.   Turn off compiz.  And loads of other things that don't come to mind at the moment.

---

