---
title: "Ie9"
date: 2011-02-26
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by jennybrew on 2011-02-26
Wow is all I can say
Im afraid Frefox is not in the same design class
My boyfriend is windows techie so he does know what he is talking abount
Usually he can also sort out my Linux troubles !!!:)
Anyhow, to night he was ertting up new Ie( for work and wow!
the interface is so clean, it is fast and it leaves us in the dust.
Will Firefox catch up or are we all doome dto be laqte in line again?

---

### Post by spook1980 on 2011-02-26
ie9 is blotted and so firefox has become as well, chromium is the fast light weight and doesn't have surcurity holes so big u can drive a truck thorugh like IE9 the interface takes a little getting used 2 but after u get used 2 it its like second nature,

my advice is switch chromium

---

### Post by sowelie on 2011-02-26
Your boyfriend doesn't know what he's talking about.  IE9 is still garbage, although it is faster than previous versions.  Microsoft needs to abandon the browser game. It is doing no good for them.  As a matter of fact, they are making web developers (me) very angry.  As of now I have to support 4 versions of IE, all with their own quirks and bugs.

I second the suggestion of switching to Chrome (Chromium).  Chrome is much faster than Firefox (or IE9 for that matter).  It has a nice UI, nice plugins and even decent developer tools.  Although, Firefox 4 is looking very promising.  So, I don't know that I'd give up on it yet.

---

### Post by JDShu on 2011-02-26
I use Chrome, but IE9 is pretty good too. Really the only thing I can complain about in IE9 is the UI, where they made some odd decisions. Well, my other complaint is that its on Windows, and Windows can be rather irritating :D

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-02-26
I find Firefox is usually only slow on Linux. Even then it is not terrible, so I use it. Chrome/Chromium I rarely recommend since it is so hyped it hardly needs my help. Not that it doesn&#8217;t deserve some of it. Opera is not open source, but other than the way it manages bookmarks, it is great, and they seem to be fairly Linux friendly. Give that a try.

IE, never much liked it. It was slow on my 128mb machine with Xp, so I switched to firefox which was fast (and linux soon after). If they improve it though, it is always another choice.

---

### Post by sowelie on 2011-02-26
Yeah the linux version of firefox is pretty awful.  From what I understand, the builds for linux aren't optimized for specific architectures.  It seems like firefox 4 is quicker on linux than 3 was though.

---

### Post by Khakilang on 2011-02-26
If IE9 is available on Linux, I might give it a go. But since I am on Linux, it is either Firefox or Chromium. And there is other lightweight Midori, SeaMonkey, Epiphany etc. Pick your choice.

---

### Post by themarker0 on 2011-02-26
Well i thought it was nice, with the improvements, then i saw this and frowned: [http://community.mybb.com/thread-79747-post-646471.html#pid646471](http://community.mybb.com/thread-79747-post-646471.html#pid646471)

---

### Post by Khakilang on 2011-02-26
> **themarker0 said:**
> Well i thought it was nice, with the improvements, then i saw this and frowned: [http://community.mybb.com/thread-79747-post-646471.html#pid646471](http://community.mybb.com/thread-79747-post-646471.html#pid646471)

Its a Beta version so you just have to wait and see. I never really like IE anyway. Use it for awhile and find myself always go back to Firefox.

---

### Post by Quadunit404 on 2011-02-26
Microsoft adding the ability to remove Internet Explorer (minus a few essential libraries) in Windows 7 = best thing to happen to Windows, ever.

---

### Post by Spice Weasel on 2011-02-27
> **Quadunit404 said:**
> Microsoft adding the ability to remove Internet Explorer (minus a few essential libraries) in Windows 7 = best thing to happen to Windows, ever.

Nah bro.

Departure away from being a DOS shell is the best thing that happened to Windows.

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2011-02-27
IE9 is a big leap forward for Microsoft... doubt it is big enough to make any impact... As for my preference, Firefox works, the end.


404

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-02-27
Firefox is slowly sinking into irrelevance. Chrome is the real challenger.

---

### Post by Timmer1240 on 2011-02-27
My wife upgraded to IE9 on her laptop I liked the new look and interface but she couldnt print recipes from it its still a beta,I had to revert back to IE8 to get her printing back.As for me I swear by chromium its the best on LMDE!Ive showed her different browsers but shes stuck on windows!

---

### Post by Arex Bawrin on 2011-02-27
I wouldn't mind IE9 but isnt it integrated to the kernel? Seems like a HUGE security risk, no matter how fast it is.

---

### Post by jennybrew on 2011-02-27
> **sowelie said:**
> Your boyfriend doesn't know what he's talking about.


Thats a bit rude and there isnt any need for it either.
To put the record straight he has full range of MCSE qualifications and is also Cisco qualified. His job is network supervisor ..so I think its true to say he does know what he is talking about.

---

### Post by Mr. Picklesworth on 2011-02-27
I wish people weren't so bitter about this stuff. I, for one, am thrilled to see IE9 actually being a decent piece of software.

On one side we have the web: a beautiful, powerful, completely free and open software platform that is accessible, consumer friendly, and completely capable of removing peoples' dependence on Windows.

On the other side we have Microsoft actively supporting that platform, saying &#8220;we support this free application stack!&#8221; as *a selling point* for their product.

This person says it better than I could: [http://tieguy.org/blog/2010/08/09/the-libre-web-application-stack-a-code-story/](http://tieguy.org/blog/2010/08/09/the-libre-web-application-stack-a-code-story/)

This is a very good thing. It doesn't matter if the defacto web browser on Windows ends up being IE9. What matters is that the defacto web browsers everywhere are good web browsers, because when that happens the web will be in very good shape. And when the web is in good shape, it is much easier for people to choose the software they want (like Ubuntu, if it's good enough), instead of being forced into software they &#8220;need.&#8221;

In my opinion, IE9's one disadvantage is that the interface is a nightmarish mess. Sure, it's minimal, but it feels like they split the toolbar into thirds and gave one piece each to three completely different designers. It still depends on its completely hidden application menu for anything fancy (press Alt and gasp in awe at its 1990s-ness&#8230;), and the Preferences dialog is the same convoluted thing they have been shipping since IE6. For off the shelf OEM machines, users will still be faced with a miserable array of toolbars that make the browser worse than it actually is. Same old story.

Other than that, it renders all of my websites in their full glory; a feat that was not managed by any previous IE release. (I have always gone on the assumption that people using IE6 have no taste anyway). As a person who cares deeply about the web (and doesn't care about Windows), I think that is wonderful.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2011-02-27
IE is still terrible.  lol
always will be. 

I gave up firefox for chrome awhile ago..
and ie9 cannot beat chrome. 
not a chance. 

But if I had to stop using chrome for some reason...
I would go back to firefox.
even if I still had a windows machine. lol  :P


 > Chrome is the real challenger.
most definitely.

---

### Post by jerenept on 2011-02-27
> **Rasa1111 said:**
> IE is still terrible.  lol
always will be. 

I gave up firefox for chrome awhile ago..
and ie9 cannot beat chrome. 
not a chance. 

But if I had to stop using chrome for some reason...
I would go back to firefox.
even if I still had a windows machine. lol  :P


 
most definitely.

Iron ftw. Chrome..... meh, i like to avoid Google as much as possible.

---

### Post by Spr0k3t on 2011-02-27
One of the things I tell the people I support in a business environment, "Stay away from IE".  I have found businesses which require the use of IE more prone to viruses in Windows.  Those businesses which use any other browser except IE are far less likely to become infected with a simple virus.  Of the companies that I support, I find most of them use Firefox regardless of the platform.

---

### Post by Ctrl-Alt-F1 on 2011-02-27
I use Chrome on both Windows and Nix.  I like the clean interface.  Chrome is also starting to get a lot of plugins.  IE is okay.  It's better than Safari.  If I didn't use Chrome, I'd still use Firefox though.

---

### Post by ki4jgt on 2011-02-27
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Firefox is slowly sinking into irrelevance. Chrome is the real challenger.

I would have to go with FF over Chrome any day. I just can't stand chrome! It's just so. . . BLAH for lack of another word. It has less cosmetic security than FF. I hate that! And here lately, I've hated that FF has tried to mimic Chrome even more. I used to like the history button under the back button. Now you have to hold the back button down to see the history, that's great, when you have a mouse, but when you're using a touch pad, the simple history button made the browser stand out among IE and Chrome.

---

### Post by NCLI on 2011-02-27
> **jerenept said:**
> Iron ftw. Chrome..... meh, i like to avoid Google as much as possible.

Using Iron is just plain silly, use Chromium.

When it comes to Chrome vs. Firefox, I choose Firefox any day. Its new theme integration is just plain awesome:
[[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/7rK6pl.jpg[/IMG]](http://imgur.com/7rK6p)

---

### Post by jcolyn on 2011-02-27
> **jennybrew said:**
> Wow is all I can say
Im afraid Frefox is not in the same design class
My boyfriend is windows techie so he does know what he is talking abount
Usually he can also sort out my Linux troubles !!!:)
Anyhow, to night he was ertting up new Ie( for work and wow!
the interface is so clean, it is fast and it leaves us in the dust.
Will Firefox catch up or are we all doome dto be laqte in line again?

Firefox 4.0 even though it is still in beta beats Internet Exploder hands down. It is fast and secure. While IE may be fast it is the most insecure browser known to man. As one poster put it the security holes are big enough to drive a truck (or even a train) through..

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2011-02-27
> **jcolyn said:**
> While IE may be fast it is the most insecure browser known to man. As one poster put it the security holes are big enough to drive a truck (or even a train) through..[citation needed]

---

### Post by Quadunit404 on 2011-02-27
That's probably based on FUD spread by Mozilla, because, y'know... competition :roll:

---

### Post by ki4jgt on 2011-02-28
> **Quadunit404 said:**
> That's probably based on FUD spread by Mozilla, because, y'know... competition :roll:

I like FF not b/c of the stuff they spread around (Your words, not mine) but because of the innovations they have in every release. Granted, this release they're trying to mimic features from Chrome. (I hate them for that!) Mozilla used to be the pioneers of inovative thinking and new ways to make the UI of the browser stick out, now they're stealing from Chrome??? WHY&#8253;
I think they should go back to they're layout. I loved it better than Chrome. As far as the security issues, I believe Mozilla's authority on that issue.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2011-02-28
> **ki4jgt said:**
> I like FF not b/c of the stuff they spread around (Your words, not mine) but because of the innovations they have in every release. Granted, this release they're trying to mimic features from Chrome. (I hate them for that!) Mozilla used to be the pioneers of inovative thinking and new ways to make the UI of the browser stick out, now they're stealing from Chrome??? WHY&#8253;
I think they should go back to they're layout. I loved it better than Chrome. As far as the security issues, I believe Mozilla's authority on that issue.

what's that, like 4-5 "hates" within 2 posts?
dang, that's not healthy for ya! :rolleyes:

---

### Post by disabledaccount on 2011-02-28
It's hard to belive that IE9 can reach reliability level at least comparable to FF, Opera, Chrome... Years have passed and nothing changed really: IE5,6,7 and 8 are crappy, buggy, incompatible and dangerous due to tens of serious security holes, that were never fixed on time or never at all. Still the only purpose of IE is to download and install real WEB Browser. I don't know single person who uses IE at home, and I'm talking also about win users.

Any doubts? IE8 is most up-to-date "stable" MS browser, bundled with newest win7 - run acid3 with this "browser", then do the same with ANY other, f.e FF or Opera - you'll see.
To be honest: IE9 performs far better, but "far better" doesn't change the fact, that it is still much behind ALL others.

---

### Post by Giant Speck on 2011-02-28
Internet Explorer 9 is an incredible browser, but it'll definitely never be good enough to make me switch completely from Firefox.  The same goes for Chrome.

---

### Post by ki4jgt on 2011-02-28
> **Rasa1111 said:**
> what's that, like 4-5 "hates" within 2 posts?
dang, that's not healthy for ya! :rolleyes:

Sorry LOL, I just can't get over how much I hate the fact that they've started thinking their looks weren't good enough to be popular like Chrome, so they changed it around. Just makes no sense to me.

---

### Post by Ctrl-Alt-F1 on 2011-02-28
> **ki4jgt said:**
> I like FF not b/c of the stuff they spread around (Your words, not mine) but because of the innovations they have in every release. Granted, this release they're trying to mimic features from Chrome. (I hate them for that!) Mozilla used to be the pioneers of inovative thinking and new ways to make the UI of the browser stick out, now they're stealing from Chrome??? WHY&#8253;
I think they should go back to they're layout. I loved it better than Chrome. As far as the security issues, I believe Mozilla's authority on that issue.
I have quite the opposite reaction to the UI offered on Chrome.  I was a long time FF user and the minute I tried Chrome I was hooked.  The interface is clean, yet easily navigable.  Integration of search into the url bar was insanely genius.  Plus, I have NEVER EVER had Chrome crash on Windows or Nix.  Firefox was decent on Windows, but it's crashed several times for me on Nix.

---

### Post by wrtpeeps on 2011-02-28
Firefox has gone to the dogs.

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2011-02-28
> **wrtpeeps said:**
> Firefox has gone to the dogs.
Not yet, it will go to the dogs in early October...
...no wait it needs more betas...
it will go to the dogs in January
err... February...
okay maybe March.

---

### Post by Quadunit404 on 2011-02-28
Next thing you know, Firefox 5 is going to have 25 betas.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2011-02-28
> **Ctrl-Alt-F1 said:**
> I have quite the opposite reaction to the UI offered on Chrome.  I was a long time FF user and the minute I tried Chrome I was hooked.  The interface is clean, yet easily navigable.  Integration of search into the url bar was insanely genius.  Plus, I have NEVER EVER had Chrome crash on Windows or Nix.  Firefox was decent on Windows, but it's crashed several times for me on Nix.

Couldnt agree more. <e3

---

### Post by Mr. Picklesworth on 2011-02-28
> **Ctrl-Alt-F1 said:**
> I have quite the opposite reaction to the UI offered on Chrome.  I was a long time FF user and the minute I tried Chrome I was hooked.  The interface is clean, yet easily navigable.  Integration of search into the url bar was insanely genius.  Plus, I have NEVER EVER had Chrome crash on Windows or Nix.  Firefox was decent on Windows, but it's crashed several times for me on Nix.

Now head to Preferences in a recent version (I think they added it in version 9) and choose &#8220;Enable Instant for faster searching and browsing.&#8221; Yeah, it's a little scary, but it's *glorious*. You will never be able to go back.

The nice thing with Chromium (and Chrome) is they have a strong interest in working well on Linux. After all, they use lots of Linux workstations at Google and they have that whole Chrome OS thing going on. That means they integrate with many of the local standards and conventions, and their experimental GPU acceleration works great on Linux ;)

And that's the difference with Firefox at the moment: they have a pretty different approach to cross platform development, and Windows is pretty well the main target for what they do. Not that they don't do a decent job supporting Linux and MacOS (they are getting there with the integration stuff!), but Firefox doesn't seem to focus on each platform as its own unique thing like Chromium does.

Of course, Firefox's approach has many advantages, like extensions! I like to think of it as the emacs of web browsers. Some people love it for that, and that's fair.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-02-28
IE6 is the best browser ever made. Problem?

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2011-02-28
only with your thinking! lol :P

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-02-28
Seriously now, forget about IE, Firefox, Chrome, etc, and use the best browser out there: Opera.

---

### Post by Quadunit404 on 2011-02-28
> **TeoBigusGeekus said:**
> Seriously now, forget about IE, Firefox, Chrome, etc, and use the best browser out there: Opera.

I agree with this person's thinking :D

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-02-28
Anything other than Firefox and IE fail on a number of the sites I visit. I use Chrome for UF and Facebook, but would never trust it for regular surfing.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-02-28
> **uRock said:**
> Anything other than Firefox and IE fail on a number of the sites I visit.
Example please?

---

### Post by ki4jgt on 2011-02-28
> **teobigusgeekus said:**
> seriously now, forget about ie, firefox, chrome, etc, and use the best browser out there: Opera.

please!!!! :-|

---

### Post by morbid.mech on 2011-02-28
I don't use Chrome because Google surveys their users without them knowing. By "survey", I mean they record what sites are most frequently visited and when, etc. I know it doesn't seem like *that* big of a deal, but it can get very personal. I've never had any problems with Firefox, and am very excited for FF4.

---

### Post by Quadunit404 on 2011-02-28
Ya know, Microsoft said hardware-accelerated browsing on Windows XP was impossible due to some components and libraries of Windows 7 that IE9 feeds off of never being backported to Windows XP and because they don't feel like backporting these components to any version of Windows prior to Vista... yet MoCo got hardware acceleration working in Firefox 4 under Windows XP through DirectX 9. Further, Opera will be supporting [WebGL and hardware acceleration]("http://labs.opera.com/news/2011/02/28/") on all platforms with "sufficient" hardware support when Opera 11.50 is released (if their Opera 11.x release schedule follows the schedule used for Opera 10.x, Opera 11.50 will follow 11.10,) which includes Windows XP, through OpenGL.

Problem, Microsoft? [IMG]http://www.trolldad.com/media/other.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-02-28
I love opera! However after an hour it uses around 400mb on my machine. Not that that matters, but it just seems like it would keep growing, so I stick to stuff more tested on Debian.

---

### Post by Quadunit404 on 2011-02-28
400MB on a machine with several GB of RAM (&#8805;3GB) isn't really much tbh. It is true Opera uses a lot of RAM but when you think about it...

It's like the people crying about how Mono applications eat RAM. Well earlier today I observed Banshee's memory usage while playing a song and it was only a measly 66MB out of 4GB RAM total - this is one of the Banshee 1.9.4 daily builds I'm using, btw. Problem, anti-Mono crowd? [/apparently related comment about Banshee's memory usage]

---

### Post by MisterGaribaldi on 2011-02-28
> **Quadunit404 said:**
> Problem, Microsoft?
Heh. And much to Mozilla's credit, it works extremely well under Snow Leopard as well.

I'd like to see more of this sort of thing in Linux, truthfully.

But yeah, point taken. Microsoft doesn't want to further undermine getting companies and individuals to adopt Win7 (even after all this time) and so they just don't bother.

Gee, Microsoft sounds like Apple sounds like Microsoft here.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-02-28
> **Quadunit404 said:**
> 400MB on a machine with several GB of RAM (&#8805;3GB) isn't really much tbh. It is true Opera uses a lot of RAM but when you think about it...

I know, which is why I said it does not matter. My OS would sort it out even if I had only 512mb. However I was worried it was merely a unchecked memory leak was all. And that is the reason I use FFox instead of Opera.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2011-02-28
> **TeoBigusGeekus said:**
> Seriously now, forget about IE, Firefox, Chrome, etc, and use the best browser out there: Opera.

I wonder if things have changed since i last used Opera. 
I did like it quite a bit when I used it..
however, all images opened in the browser would look "pixelated" , blurry, and just all around very poor. 

 I havent used it since I left windows (about a year ago),
and have never tried it on Linux/Ubuntu. 
Maybe time for another go.. lol

Any ideas why the images were like that, in Opera only?
My searchings never really turned up anything too relevant. :confused:

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-02-28
> **Rasa1111 said:**
> all images opened in the browser would look "pixelated" , blurry, and just all around very poor.

You had Opera Turbo enabled. It compresses pages and images for people on a poor connection.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2011-02-28
Thanks NWF, I do remember reading that in my searching,
but it never did anything different, whether turbo was on or not, i dunno. lol

I am typing this from Opera now,
and the problem does not exist!! :lol:
Very nice. :)
I like it. 
Nice n zippy to. lol

 Thanks for the suggestions,
I really did not want to use anything 'google', and thats bothered me since I started using chrome(ium), haha
.. now I can avoid it, and still have a nice , fast, good browser! lol

Pretty sweet,
 way to go Opera!
<3

---

### Post by mkendall on 2011-02-28
I love me some Opera, especially being able to use [ctrl]+[right arrow] to browse forward to unvisited pages on a website. Now if only I could convince the the admins to have the next page be the hotlink in a thread instead of the next thread.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-03-01
P4 @ 3GH, 1Gb Ram, NVidia 6600 GT (128mb).
Openbox stand-alone on Arch Linux.
Rtorrent open and Opera with 7 tabs.
Htop:

---

### Post by Giant Speck on 2011-03-01
> **TeoBigusGeekus said:**
> Seriously now, forget about IE, Firefox, Chrome, etc, and use the best browser out there: Opera.
I can only stand to use Opera in OS X.  It's almost unbearable to use in Linux and annoying to use in Windows.

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-03-01
> **TeoBigusGeekus said:**
> Example please?
Here is a screenshot from the most important site I have to use, but it is not the only site that gives me issues.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-03-01
> **uRock said:**
> Here is a screenshot from the most important site I have to use, but it is not the only site that gives me issues.

Have you tried right clicking>Edit site preferences>Network>Identify as Firefox/IE?

---

### Post by Quadunit404 on 2011-03-01
That identifies as outdated versions of Firefox/IE (e.g. Firefox 2.0.0.12 and IE6) right now. Dunno when the Opera Desktop Team is gonna update the alternate user agents to more modern browsers.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-03-01
> **Quadunit404 said:**
> That identifies as outdated versions of Firefox/IE (e.g. Firefox 2.0.0.12 and IE6) right now. Dunno when the Opera Desktop Team is gonna update the alternate user agents to more modern browsers.

Found it!
[http://my.cn.opera.com/community/forums/topic.dml?id=230378]("http://my.cn.opera.com/community/forums/topic.dml?id=230378")

---

### Post by 3177 on 2011-03-01
IE9 will probably be faster than firefox4, only because its built for windows only. Firefox is slow on linux based systems, but this can be overcome by doing some configuring. As for the OP's post, of course her BF is hyping up IE9, he's a windows techie, just as a lot of us are linux techie's. Everybody has a right to their opinion, and mine is no matter how fast IE9 will be, it will never be as secure as Firefox3, 3.5, or 4.

---

### Post by racie on 2011-03-01
> **morbid.mech said:**
> I don't use Chrome because Google surveys their users without them knowing. By "survey", I mean they record what sites are most frequently visited and when, etc. I know it doesn't seem like *that* big of a deal, but it can get very personal. I've never had any problems with Firefox, and am very excited for FF4.

When you first install it asks whether or not you will let it record your browsing.  Simply select "no," or better yet, switch to Chromium.  It's the open source browser that Chrome is based off of.

IE9 sucks compared to every other browser except all previous versions of IE.  It's actually a huge step up from IE8, but still very far from matching the standards of Firefox, Chrome, Safari, etc.

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2011-03-01
> **uRock said:**
> Here is a screenshot from the most important site I have to use, but it is not the only site that gives me issues.I'm going to guess TeoBigusGeekus meant actual URLs, not a screenshot of a table showing browsers and their status.

Even if something is in 'beta support' doesn't mean it won't work at all. Case in point, in the US it's time to do taxes. I've done them online at H&R Block for years successfully even though Linux as a whole isn't supported at all.

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-03-01
> **Merk42 said:**
> I'm going to guess TeoBigusGeekus meant actual URLs, not a screenshot of a table showing browsers and their status.

Even if something is in 'beta support' doesn't mean it won't work at all. Case in point, in the US it's time to do taxes. I've done them online at H&R Block for years successfully even though Linux as a whole isn't supported at all.
I don't think my college would appreciate me placing their urls all over the web, being that most of the sites I have had problems with are hosted on my school's servers. 

I am not here to convince others to drop their browsers, but only stating my experiences.

---

### Post by NCLI on 2011-03-01
> **TeoBigusGeekus said:**
> Seriously now, forget about IE, Firefox, Chrome, etc, and use the best browser out there: Opera.
If it could render iGoogle properly, I would.
> **morbid.mech said:**
> I don't use Chrome because Google surveys their users without them knowing. By "survey", I mean they record what sites are most frequently visited and when, etc. I know it doesn't seem like *that* big of a deal, but it can get very personal. I've never had any problems with Firefox, and am very excited for FF4.
Source?

---

### Post by Quadunit404 on 2011-03-01
> **NCLI said:**
> If it could render iGoogle properly, I would.

iGoogle looks just fine here.

---

### Post by Austin25 on 2011-03-01
You know, I'm not going to stray from standards simply because Microsoft does. 

If I didn't use Chromium, or I had a good reason not to, I would use one of the many lesser used browsers.

---

### Post by robro on 2011-03-02
before I discovered there were browsers other than internet explorer, I used it 24/7 and I can't think of anything "bad" about ie, but when I discovered there were other browsers, eh... internet explorer seemed to lack in... everything, I'm using opera now, firefox is very slow for some reason.

---

