---
title: "F1"
date: 2009-10-18
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Random-penguin on 2009-10-18
Wooooooooo Hoooooooooo Jenson Button is World Champion!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!:biggrin:

---

### Post by benj1 on 2009-10-18
i know :)
he didnt half manage to string it out tho

---

### Post by RaZe42 on 2009-10-18
I miss the days with Häkkinen and Schumacher... :(

---

### Post by Contraste on 2009-10-18
> **Random-penguin said:**
> Wooooooooo Hoooooooooo Jenson Button is World Champion!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!:biggrin:

BrawnGP and Jenson have made a great job, but next season Ferrari and Alonso are gonna be invincible :cool:... at last...

---

### Post by xpod on 2009-10-18
I take back anything i said about him "bottling it" in the "weekend plans" thread.He drove his little cotton socks off there.

Well done JB.

EDIT:Ok, his fire retardant socks.

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2009-10-18
He did well today and in my opinion based on the way he drove he deserved the championship. He did very well early in the season and has had a fair proportion of "good fortune" for the rest of the year.

That said well done! Great to have another Brit as World Champion, two in a row and I suspect it will be three in a row at the end of next season.......

---

### Post by samjh on 2009-10-18
Congratulations to Button.  Barrichello actually lent him his private jet.  What a great team-mate! :D

Beautiful drive by Vettel too, and congratulation to Mark Webber of course for winning the grand prix. :)

---

### Post by benj1 on 2009-10-18
> **samjh said:**
> Congratulations to Button.  Barrichello actually lent him his private jet.  What a great team-mate! :D

Beautiful drive by Vettel too, and congratulation to Mark Webber of course for winning the grand prix. :)

dont forget hamilton, he came from 17th on the grid to finish 3rd

---

### Post by t0p on 2009-10-18
About time Button did well in F1.  If I was called Jensen, i'd win all the time.  Otherwise what's the point of the name?

---

### Post by gan1708 on 2009-10-19
Best F1 season in years!!

Button drove like a bandit at Interlagos!!... and Ross Brawn finally gets the limelight he always deserved when at Ferrari (most of it was stolen by Montezemolo and that short Napolean lookalike).... You can tell that this meant a lot to Ross Brawn (he actually broke down during the interview).

You Brits must be chuffed!!.... British Driver, British team, British engine (Merc F1 engines are actually built by Ilmor).

I truly hope this is a sign of more privateer teams coming to the fore.... I never liked them manufacturers (they should just be allowed to supply engines). 

Cheers~

---

### Post by the fix it man on 2009-10-19
Makes up for Tim Henmon. :lolflag:

---

### Post by samjh on 2009-10-19
> **t0p said:**
> About time Button did well in F1.  If I was called Jensen, i'd win all the time.  Otherwise what's the point of the name?

His name is Jenson.  "O", not "e". ;)

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2009-10-20
Was a good race and congrats to Jensen.

Hopefully next season will be a good one too. As far as i know though, only two teams are confirmed so far? :confused:

---

### Post by koshatnik on 2009-10-20
Ah yes, Formula Farce, as it is now. I used to love F1, but it just a joke now, a parade of cars the winner of which is determined in a pit lane.

Switched to touring cars instead. 2 races a time, plenty of dings and smashes, and SHOCK! overtaking.

Remember that F1 fans?

---

### Post by Mark76 on 2009-10-20
There was overtaking in Sunday's race.

What's needed is more tracks like Interlagos where overtaking is possible.

And well done JB. A truely worthy champion :D

---

### Post by benj1 on 2009-10-20
> **Slug71 said:**
> Was a good race and congrats to Jensen.

Hopefully next season will be a good one too. As far as i know though, only two teams are confirmed so far? :confused:

there are loads, theres 3 new teams for a start, including lotus :)

---

### Post by vishzilla on 2009-10-20
Next season, Alonso + Ferrari = Excitement!

---

### Post by Swagman on 2009-10-20
This should've been on the side of The Brawn cars

[img]http://www.upload3r.com/serve/260409/1240756981.jpg[/img]

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2009-10-20
> **Swagman said:**
> This should've been on the side of The Brawn cars

[img]http://www.upload3r.com/serve/260409/1240756981.jpg[/img]

Awesomeness!! :guitar:

+1


It looks like it belongs there too.

---

### Post by benj1 on 2009-10-20
> **Swagman said:**
> This should've been on the side of The Brawn cars

[img]http://www.upload3r.com/serve/260409/1240756981.jpg[/img]

you know, i did actually think at the start of the season (when they had one lonely virgin logo), what a waste of good advertising space.

---

### Post by Nerd King on 2009-10-20
Surely the ugliest car ever to win the world championship.. I mean come on, the white and yellow look just isn't pretty is it.

---

### Post by benj1 on 2009-10-21
> **Nerd King said:**
> Surely the ugliest car ever to win the world championship.. I mean come on, the white and yellow look just isn't pretty is it.
what colour would you go with?

they probably didnt have much a choice, they only bought out honda 3 weeks before the start of the season, so had to use what ever colour honda had left them with.

---

### Post by simonday99 on 2009-10-21
> **RaZe42 said:**
> I miss the days with Häkkinen and Schumacher... :(

+1. Damn, I so badly miss Schumi in the scarlet ferrari mate. But looks like Schumi has given us some hope about a possible return ( he actually said, you cant totally rule out a return to the game eventually) 

I just hope its next season !! And damn, I hate Alonso driving the red car :mad:

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2009-10-21
I miss the days with Villeneuve in there too.

I think the nicest looking cars were the Rothmans Renault and the Lucky Strike and 555 BAR.

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2009-10-21
> **benj1 said:**
> there are loads, theres 3 new teams for a start, including lotus :)

I guess the came to a compromise about the budget restrictions then. :)

---

### Post by Nerd King on 2009-10-21
> **benj1 said:**
> what colour would you go with?

they probably didnt have much a choice, they only bought out honda 3 weeks before the start of the season, so had to use what ever colour honda had left them with.
Well the old Williams circa Mansell, the McLaren circa Senna, Schumacher's Benneton and then his Ferrari, the silver McLaren, all look so much better.. the Brawn just looks like one of the crappy little backmarker teams that no-one bothers with! They need to make it less ugly!

---

### Post by Random-penguin on 2009-10-21
And yet despite the "look", they did it!!!! Hey who said beauty was only skin deep!!! Brawn did so well in a year they could so easily have folded. I really wish them well for the future and hopefully pick up colourful sponsers for all you fashion conscious peeps!!!!!!

And as for mourning Schummi, come on,; we've had of the most competitive F1 seasons for ages! I am a Mclaren fan (yeah, OK Ferrari fans!!!) and yet I welcome the new competition from other teams.

Bring on next season! (of course I'll be there Abu Dabi!):P

---

### Post by simonday99 on 2009-11-10
Actually Schumi said at an interview, he may not be completely retired and eventually he might return to the sport. He still has it in him. I wish he came back next season ;) :lolflag:

---

### Post by FLMKane on 2009-11-10
> **benj1 said:**
> dont forget hamilton, he came from 17th on the grid to finish 3rd

How did he do that? I missed the last few races.

---

### Post by amitabhishek on 2009-11-10
> **benj1 said:**
> dont forget hamilton, he came from 17th on the grid to finish 3rd

With a girl friend like Nicole Scherzinger; who needs the trophy anyway ;)

---

### Post by benj1 on 2009-11-10
> **FLMKane said:**
> How did he do that? I missed the last few races.

they had a safety car on the first lap where he pitted and switched to a one stop, he only had one place to lose anyway, plus he was quick, didnt get to see much of him tho, all eyes were on the brauns and red bulls

---

### Post by The Real Dave on 2009-11-10
> **RaZe42 said:**
> I miss the days with Häkkinen and Schumacher... :(


Me too :(

---

### Post by johnb820 on 2009-11-10
What a terrible season for F1. I figured on Jenson winning the whole thing after the first few races. It became very apparent they took the regulations too far and that the car still wins races, not the drivers. But I'm hopeful for next season. Maybe in the future they can start ditching tracks like the Hungaroring and Turkey and start racing in places like Montreal again. I wouldn't mind seeing Monaco dropped either.

---

### Post by Swagman on 2009-11-10
You mean like .. Brawn having to cut a whacking great hole in the chassis to fit the Illmor engine instead of the Honda and thereby stuffing up the balance ?

Ross Brawn told them about the diffuser LONG before the season started. **TWO** other teams also paid attention to Ross's comments about it.

It was a brilliant season. Best for years.

Jenson and Mark Webber were the only two doing serious "do or die" passing manoeuvres. Very exciting stuff.

Now that the big manufacturers are falling by the wayside F1 will return to the Garage-istas format of yesteryear.

Excellent stuff.

---

### Post by samjh on 2009-11-10
> **Swagman said:**
> Jenson and Mark Webber were the only two doing serious "do or die" passing manoeuvres. Very exciting stuff.

You're forgetting Kobayashi's deadly defence against Button and Nakajima, and Trulli's tantrum attack against Sutil. ;)

---

### Post by Swagman on 2009-11-10
> **samjh said:**
> You're forgetting Kobayashi's deadly defence against Button and Nakajima, and Trulli's tantrum attack against Sutil. ;)

Ah yes... Kobayashi's drives were excellent. definitely want to see him in a competitive car next year

---

### Post by gn2 on 2009-11-10
The best thing that could happen to F1 is a total ban on front and rear wings.
Because of the reliance on aerodynamics the racing is compromised into a boring follow the leader yawn fest.
I watch F1 on TV out of habit, but I usually end up asleep on the couch.

---

### Post by benj1 on 2009-11-10
> **gn2 said:**
> The best thing that could happen to F1 is a total ban on front and rear wings.
Because of the reliance on aerodynamics the racing is compromised into a boring follow the leader yawn fest.
I watch F1 on TV out of habit, but I usually end up asleep on the couch.

i don't agree with a total ban but overtaking could certainly be improved, theyre already moving down that road, thats why they had smaller wings this year, but the rules do need some more work, i think the main problem was kers, which thankfully the teams have agreed not to use.

---

### Post by issih on 2009-11-10
A standardised and significantly more powerful ground effect floor is probably the right way to go, along with further limitations to the wing pattern. It should make overtaking a lot easier, and would be less embarrassing than the stupid plank of wood they put under there now..

Its about the only thing our American open cockpit cousins have got right.

---

