---
title: "256 vs. 512 video card"
date: 2006-10-30
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by charles.g.moore on 2006-10-30
I am planning to buy a new laptop my question is:

I do not play any sorts of games but I would like to watch the occasional DVD on the plane, and I would love to eventually run beryl nicely when the bugs get worked out.  

So if I were to go with the 256MB NVIDIA(R) GeForce(R) Go 7400 rather than the 512 card would I be able to do everything I needed without noticing too much?

The reason I ask is HP will only sell me the 512 card on a laptop with a 17 inch monitor but I kinda want to get something a bit smaller 15.4in but it only goes up to 256

any ideas / suggestions???

---

### Post by slimdog360 on 2006-10-30
Id say that the 256 would be more then enough. So long as you hae enough ram and a good cpu.

---

### Post by tseliot on 2006-10-30
Of course 256MB is enough.

Think that both my desktop computer (with a 128MB Nvidia card) and my old laptop (with a 64MB shared ATI card) are able to play DVDs smoothly.

---

### Post by mips on 2006-10-30
256MB is enough, I have 128MB here and everything works just fine.

---

### Post by anaconda on 2006-10-30
I have integrated cards with shared memories in both my desktop and laptop, Both of them can do what you want to do! So the 256MB is enough, and even integrated card would work just fine..

---

### Post by maagimies on 2006-10-30
I'm running Beryl nicely with a 64 Mt Geforce 3, and any kind of video has never been a problem :D
So go with the 256 mt one, or lower if you can.

---

### Post by kripkenstein on 2006-10-30
128, 256, 512 etc. MB of video RAM are only needed to store textures in 3D gaming, basically.

To get a grasp of the figures, think that a 1024*1024 screen takes 1MB*pixel depth, so basically 3MB for 24-bit color, 4MB with an alpha channel. So even with double-buffering, you are looking at 8MB. Out of 256MB, that leaves quite a lot free. As I said before, the extra RAM is used to buffer textures in 3D gaming, so when textures are mapped to polygons, the graphics card reads them from its own memory rather than system RAM (which would be slower to access).

---

