---
title: "19 June, 2010!!!  26 June, 2010!!!"
date: 2010-06-04
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by kevin11951 on 2010-06-04
Lets see if anyone can guess what AWESOME thing involves the dates above...

Hint:  It involves a blue box...  (It's bigger on the inside... :P)

---

### Post by mobilediesel on 2010-06-05
> **kevin11951 said:**
> Lets see if anyone can guess what AWESOME thing involves the dates above...

Hint:  It involves a blue box...  (It's bigger on the inside... :P)

Episodes 12 and 13 of the current series of Doctor Who?

---

### Post by kevin11951 on 2010-06-05
> **mobilediesel said:**
> Episodes 12 and 13 of the current series of Doctor Who?

Awww, that was to fast, oh well... Yes, it is the season finale of doctor who...  And it involves the possible explosion of the TARDIS.  Or at least thats what they want you to believe, which means its not that!  So then what is it... I dont know... Wait, why am i talking to myself?  I am not sure... STOP THAT!!!

I like doctor who alot...  can you tell?

---

### Post by gletob on 2010-06-05
Dr. Who and House are my two favorite TV shows.

---

### Post by mobilediesel on 2010-06-05
> **kevin11951 said:**
> Awww, that was to fast, oh well... Yes, it is the season finale of doctor who...  And it involves the possible explosion of the TARDIS.  Or at least thats what they want you to believe, which means its not that!  So then what is it... I dont know... Wait, why am i talking to myself?  I am not sure... STOP THAT!!!

I like doctor who alot...  can you tell?

No, couldn't tell at all.. </sarcasm>

The Doctor said, earlier this season, that time can be rewritten.
That, of course, gives us a hint that may turn out to be wrong. :D

Whatever the "crack" is, it wipes things from history. The Doctor may figure out how to feed it to itself, causing it to have never existed. They have done paradoxical things in the story line over the decades. Yes, I've watched Doctor Who since the mid-eighties. Yes, that does mean that the actor currently playing The Doctor was a toddler when I first watched Doctor Who when I was around 12 years old..

Damn I feel old.. At least The Doctor has me beat by more than 860 years. :D

---

### Post by BigSilly on 2010-06-05
It's a great series imho this one. I loved Tennant and the RTD era, but so far the Moffat & Smith era is really hitting the mark. It has a very different vibe to what's gone before, but I prefer it tbh. Plus, there's been a pleasing reduction in the amount of naff extras in the background that just can't act! God, I hated that about previous series'. Bumbling extras ruining the action! :D  I'll betcha Moffat spotted that about the previous runs and made a conscious effort to get rid of them. That, and the fact that the budget is a bit lower than before will have sealed their fate. Thankfully.

---

### Post by Chilli Bob on 2010-06-05
Dudes, please put a spoiler warning in the OP!  I already read more than I wanted to.   We are several months behind down here.

---

### Post by Spike-X on 2010-06-05
No we're not. The ABC is showing new eps just two weeks after they screen in the UK.

Of course, they're available elsewhere *wink* just hours after screening in the UK.

---

### Post by Chilli Bob on 2010-06-05
> **Spike-X said:**
> No we're not. The ABC is showing new eps just two weeks after they screen in the UK.

Of course, they're available elsewhere *wink* just hours after screening in the UK.


If so, then it's a bloody short series.  We need more Dr Who.  MORE, I says!

And yes, I do have access to them earlier, but want to spread out the fun.

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2010-06-05
On BBC America on Direct TV , how far are the episodes behind what is being broadcast in Great Britain?

---

### Post by Spike-X on 2010-06-06
Two weeks, I believe.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2010-06-06
Last night's was Episode 10 - the van Gogh one.

---

### Post by kevin11951 on 2010-06-09
> **forestpiskie said:**
> Last night's was Episode 10 - the van Gogh one.

I **almost** cried at the end when amy walks up to the vase with sunflowers in it.

---

