---
title: "Ces 2010"
date: 2010-01-09
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-01-09
I was looking over the stuff at ces 2010, and i saw [this]("http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/top-10s/2010/01/08/ces-2010-top-10-3dtv-tablet-pcs-and-an-iphone-controlled-helicopter-the-best-of-the-hot-new-gadgets-on-show-in-las-vegas-115875-21951681/")

what's with the 3d tvs? i can simply go out and rent a 3d blu-ray or dvd and get the same effect.

---

### Post by chris200x9 on 2010-01-09
less work maybe? if you make every dvd 3d it takes much more effort than making one tv 3d and havin every regular dvd be 3d on it. I think...i dunno...

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-01-09
Some of the 3D TVs don't require glassers. Also, the 3D effect is a lot better and more flicker-free on a 3D TV.

---

### Post by PhoenixMaster00 on 2010-01-09
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Some of the 3D TVs don't require glassers. Also, the 3D effect is a lot better and more flicker-free on a 3D TV.

Plus one of the TV makers is advertising their one of their models as being able to render your existing dvds into 3d while you watch them. 

CES has been quite interesting this year even though its been mostly 3d TVs, ebook readers/tablets, and Android managing to install itself into anything it can. 

Main interests have been the Dell Mini 5, Inbrics M1 Android phone, and the boxee box amongst others.

---

### Post by starcannon on 2010-01-09
I'd buy a 3D T.V. when my current set lets all of its magic smoke out. That said, I don't know how long we'd have to wait for a plethora of 3D programming. It took a lot just to get a digital signal here in the states, they still think HD is an option, not a requirement. 3D would be awesome, but here in the states, it'd be outdated by the time they started charging us more than it's worth to see it.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-01-09
> **starcannon said:**
> I'd buy a 3D T.V. when my current set lets all of its magic smoke out. That said, I don't know how long we'd have to wait for a plethora of 3D programming. It took a lot just to get a digital signal here in the states, they still think HD is an option, not a requirement. 3D would be awesome, but here in the states, it'd be outdated by the time they started charging us more than it's worth to see it.
sorrta like the issue with DVB

---

### Post by PC_load_letter on 2010-01-10
Sorry to go a bit off topic, but I'm also interested n the boxee box and I just read that it received the "Last standing gadget" award in CES.

---

