---
title: "7.10 Bit Torrent Download"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2007-10-18
Hey guys, just wondering what kind of speeds you were getting for the desktop CD downloads for Gutsy.

I'm getting 20-30 kb/s for i386
and only 5-10kb/s for amd64 :(

And yes my torrent client it configured correctly.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-10-18
We urge people to seeding afterwards!

---

### Post by Jukums on 2007-10-18
~200 kb/s for 64 this morning

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2007-10-18
lol, thats not the problem, I'm connected to 78 seeds & 22 peers for i386

and 70 seeds and 30 peers or amd64

---

### Post by GSF1200S on 2007-10-18
> **Joeb454 said:**
> Hey guys, just wondering what kind of speeds you were getting for the desktop CD downloads for Gutsy.

I'm getting 20-30 kb/s for i386
and only 5-10kb/s for amd64 :(

And yes my torrent client it configured correctly.

Im getting over 615 kb/s with Frostwires built in torrent client, and thats with the alternate 64!

I have a quick question. Since im using frostwire, how would I put my file up so you guys can d/l it? I know next to nothing about torrenting, so any advice would be great. I know the servers are slammed and I want to help :)

---

### Post by bobbocanfly on 2007-10-18
I got about 120kbps down on Ubuntu i386 Desktop this morning. Will seed all night and hopefully for as long as possible until Hardy.

---

### Post by alex_mayorga on 2007-10-18
> **GSF1200S said:**
> Im getting over 615 kb/s with Frostwires built in torrent client, and thats with the alternate 64!

I have a quick question. Since im using frostwire, how would I put my file up so you guys can d/l it? I know next to nothing about torrenting, so any advice would be great. I know the servers are slammed and I want to help :)

I agree a couple of how-tos on seeding would come handy for us newbies to contribute some bandwidth.

---

### Post by drf_av on 2007-10-18
Torrent is super-fast now. Actually everybody is downloading so... everyone is seeding too! :D You just have to wait about 10 mins and you'll surely fly above 100KBs at least.

---

### Post by reacocard on 2007-10-18
I got about 8MB/s, took less than two minutes to download. :)

Now seeding constantly at 50KB/s with spikes of up to 500KB/s. I have lots of bandwidth so if your bt client lets you, you can just add me as a peer directly for high speeds, my IP is 134.173.59.138

EDIT: that's for both 32-bit and 64-bit desktop ISOs.

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2007-10-18
You clearly aren't getting the same torrent as me lol. I'm still getting about 40-60kb between both of them (i386 and amd64 desktop NOT alternate).

Ah well, it's still a bit quicker than the servers in the UK

---

### Post by Mazza558 on 2007-10-18
I capped mine at 100kb/s as it was preventing me from surfing the web if I left it uncapped (at about 120kb/s)

---

### Post by GSF1200S on 2007-10-18
Its odd- I use the alternate 64 so I can install a 64bit system, and put KDE core on top: that downloaded at 615kbps. 

Im trying to torrent the desktop i386, and i386 alternate so others can use my bandwidth, but im downloading at like 2kbps!! I might have to try other torrents.

---

### Post by funrider on 2007-10-18
faster was 8xxkb/s with ktorrent this morning. well, i download amd64 desktop and alt ubuntu and 32bit desktop and alt xbuntu.

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2007-10-18
The best thing is to download the day before a big release.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-10-18
It's strange because I was only getting between 200 and 500 kb/s. I would have expected it to max out my connection at over 850kb/s but it didn't despite the extremely large number of peers and seeders. I'm still seeding them now:)

---

### Post by diskotek on 2007-10-18
what  are the torrent addresses, i couldn't find them..or i have to download it by 10k from taiwan *the only working download point for me till now)

i found them!:  [http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.10/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.10/)

---

### Post by juanhunglow on 2007-10-18
> **Joeb454 said:**
> Hey guys, just wondering what kind of speeds you were getting for the desktop CD downloads for Gutsy.

I'm getting 20-30 kb/s for i386
and only 5-10kb/s for amd64 :(

And yes my torrent client it configured correctly.

I'm seeding 4 flavors.  D/L got into the 300 kb/s

My highest u/l rate hit 1.2 MB/s.

So far seeded 12.4 GB, I d/l'd 2.4GB

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-10-18
> **diskotek said:**
> what  are the torrent addresses, i couldn't find them..or i have to download it by 10k from taiwan *the only working download point for me till now)

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.10/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.10/)

---

### Post by Boelcke on 2007-10-18
I just started the ubuntu-7.10-desktop-i386.iso torrent, and while it briefly hit 400 kB/s, it seems to be settling in around 100-150.  Of course, as soon as I wrote that, it dropped down to 70!

I'm planning on leaving my seed up all evening -- do the same!  (For those that are new to torrents, just leave the bittorrent client open after it has finished downloading -- that'll share it with others.)

---

### Post by venator260 on 2007-10-18
I'm only getting between 5-10kB/s. But that's totally due to the network that I am on. It seems that the townhouse's network that I live in dips in speed quite a bit around this time of day. I've currently about 3 hours to go, and I started this at about 10:30 this morning. 

I'm doing this on Windows, because the terminal update seems to have broken my update from Fiesty, so no seeding for me until I get Gutsy installed and redownload the image.

---

### Post by awalsh on 2007-10-18
I was getting 300kbps before, but then i stopped and switched to a faster FTP. Now ive got 2 machines seeding, a 100mbit server which is probably going to seed about 100-300gb and my home pc which is 8mbit and that will seed as much as I can.

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2007-10-18
Thanks to Pipex, I'm getting 5-10 KB/s

---

### Post by mihai.ile on 2007-10-18
you guys have aswome connections for upload, mine only does an average of 80kB/s for upload but i'll seed all night.
Right now I have 1.25 share ratio :)

---

### Post by bobbocanfly on 2007-10-18
Got the i386 Desktop and Alternate ISO;s seeding at 20kb each. Not much but every little helps

---

### Post by CVNChaotic on 2007-10-18
Remember to seed! =)

I started seedings about 6 hours ago at work on a T3. About the best way I have to contribute...

---

### Post by condawg on 2007-10-18
I'm getting 300kb/s
I'll seed for as long as I can :)

---

### Post by venator260 on 2007-10-19
Torrenting the i386 image now so I can seed more.

uTorrent on Windows was giving me much slower speeds that the default bittorent client for Ubuntu. I've got about 100-110kB/s now against my download today that averaged 23kB/s (according to uTorrent under Windows)

Edit: Loaded the torrent. Seeding now, contributing about 30kB/s to the cause

---

