---
title: "8.10 Likes to put mounted devices on my desktop...MAKE IT STOP!!!"
date: 2009-03-23
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Excedio on 2009-03-23
Hey All

I noticed that when a device becomes mounted to the computer (usb, cd, dvd, etc...) it will appear on my desktop. How can I make this stop?

I prefer to have a clean desktop with ZERO icons. But this is not allowing me to do this. Any ideas how to make 8.10 stop doing this?

---

### Post by xArv3nx on 2009-03-23
alt + f2 --> gconf-editor --> apps --> nautilus --> desktop --> something like "mounted volumes visible" --> uncheck

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2009-03-23
i know i could not sleep at night knowing there were (heaven forbid) ICONS ON MY DESKTOP! :roll: because everything in my life is in it's place. everything must be perfect. every nuance is carefully choreographed. without this, i am less than a man. i strive for, and achieve, PERFECTION!

---

### Post by RiceMonster on 2009-03-24
> **wolfen69 said:**
> i know i could not sleep at night knowing there were (heaven forbid) ICONS ON MY DESKTOP! :roll: because everything in my life is in it's place. everything must be perfect. every nuance is carefully choreographed. without this, i am less than a man. i strive for, and achieve, PERFECTION!

I don't think you need to be so patronizing. Whats wrong with him asking how to turn it off it was bothering him?

---

### Post by quinnten83 on 2009-03-24
There definitely was no need, but you gotta admit it was funny :)
I am sure Excedio can dish it out too, so...

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2009-03-24
> **RiceMonster said:**
> I don't think you need to be so patronizing. Whats wrong with him asking how to turn it off it was bothering him?

take me with a grain of salt. i don't mean any harm. just having fun.

the long time posters here know this and don't worry about it. but if i announced ahead of time it was sarcasm/trying to be funny, it would lose it's oooomph, and therefore lose it's entertainment value.

> **quinnten83 said:**
> There definitely was no need, but you gotta admit it was funny :)
I am sure Excedio can dish it out too, so...
thanks, i try to inject some much needed life into this forum. and to the OP, i have no problem with what you want your pc to be. ;)

---

### Post by JackieChan on 2009-03-24
> **xarv3nx said:**
> alt + f2 --> gconf-editor --> apps --> nautilus --> desktop --> something like "mounted volumes visible" --> uncheck
thank you!

---

### Post by Excedio on 2009-03-24
> **wolfen69 said:**
> i know i could not sleep at night knowing there were (heaven forbid) ICONS ON MY DESKTOP! :roll: because everything in my life is in it's place. everything must be perfect. every nuance is carefully choreographed. without this, i am less than a man. i strive for, and achieve, PERFECTION!

No worries dude. I don't really take it seriously/personally when people are sarcastic about one of my posts. But I could see how others may.

---

### Post by Excedio on 2009-03-24
> **xArv3nx said:**
> alt + f2 --> gconf-editor --> apps --> nautilus --> desktop --> something like "mounted volumes visible" --> uncheck

Thank you very much...I appreciate it. :)


In case anyone is wondering about the eact verbage it's:

alt + f2 --> gconf-editor --> apps --> nautilus --> desktop --> volumes_visible --> uncheck

My desktop is now "PERFECTION" once again. ;)

---

