---
title: ".-:= What are you Drinking right now=:-."
date: 2007-01-22
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by Omnios on 2007-01-22
K this might be fun on the weekend and its based more on what people drink as apposed to if they drink. Also this includes non alke drinks like cool-aid and water. 


 Well im starting this off with a beer from the LCBO Canadian hard booz store.

 LECH: Brewed fron natural ingredients made in Poland beer 5.2% alc 500ml boor.

 Interesting beer with a strong hop like tast. Goes down rather well.

---

### Post by Wartooth on 2007-01-22
Ah!  Now you've just gone and reminded me that I am thirsty!

I'll be going after a bottle of water now... :)

---

### Post by ComplexNumber on 2007-01-22
coffee.

---

### Post by CCBalla10 on 2007-01-22
Fruit smoothie....also have a cold Pepsi  Some say I'm addicted to Pepsi!

---

### Post by Stew2 on 2007-01-22
Water for me :)

Regards,
Stew2

---

### Post by MkfIbK7a on 2007-01-22
water

---

### Post by STREETURCHINE on 2007-01-22
strong coffee.

---

### Post by Rule on 2007-01-22
a Cookies N Cream protein shake and a bottle of water :biggrin:

---

### Post by Choad on 2007-01-22
carlsberg export

beer, and its not mine. thats the best kind of beer (free). cant believe im supposed ot be getting up in the morning. it will be nothing short of a miracle if i do.

---

### Post by BWF89 on 2007-01-22
A glass of orange juice

---

### Post by PurplePenguin on 2007-01-22
Nothing right now.  But there's an empty mug with some strawberry green tea* sitting on my desk.  I think it's been here all day.

*-it tastes better than it sounds!

---

### Post by fuscia on 2007-01-22
screwtop red wine. great thread!
:guitar:

---

### Post by yabbadabbadont on 2007-01-22
Do the Dew.  (Otherwise known as Mountain Dew for those who are lucky enough to have never seen their adverts.  ;))

Usually it's artificially sweetened iced tea, but I wanted a treat tonight.

---

### Post by pmj on 2007-01-22
Coca-Cola Light. I hate it, but I need to cut down on sugar and it's better than water.

---

### Post by burek on 2007-01-22
always healthy water   

& some good red wine once/1day a week during weekend

---

### Post by RAV TUX on 2007-01-22
nothing....very, very thirsty....especially since I am eating salty chips:lolflag:

---

### Post by seijuro on 2007-01-22
SoBe - Green Tea

---

### Post by fuscia on 2007-01-22
mov ed on to fat bastrd and some kind o'mineral water... woohoo!1

---

### Post by stalker145 on 2007-01-22
:(
nothing at the moment as I'm sitting in a military-run cyber cafe in the middle of Afganistan... usually it's water, but we're not allowed any food or liquids near the computers 'cause of some bone-heads that can't seem to keep them in the bottle...

---

### Post by Motoxrdude on 2007-01-22
Kool-aid. And no, im not black.

---

### Post by Atomic Dog on 2007-01-22
Crushed ice and water.  First time in a couple weeks I haven't had a beer in front of me.  But now that I think of it...

---

### Post by Bezmotivnik on 2007-01-23
Vietnamese green tea from the local 99¢ Store -- same place I got my stylin' pimp cane.

---

### Post by kuja on 2007-01-23
tea :)

---

### Post by Atomic Dog on 2007-01-23
Drinking beer at the moment

---

### Post by mostwanted on 2007-01-23
Tea.

English genes...

---

### Post by Dilox on 2007-01-23
At this moment.... Red cordial :) & a bottle of water.

Dylan

---

### Post by CowzRule on 2007-01-23
> **ComplexNumber said:**
> coffee.

Ditto:lolflag:

---

### Post by steven8 on 2007-01-23
Crisp cool slightly polluted Akron, OH water.  On the rocks. . .

---

### Post by Nik_Doof on 2007-01-23
Coke

---

### Post by Titus A Duxass on 2007-01-23
Schwarzer Tee - Ceylon Assam Mischung.

---

### Post by MaximB on 2007-01-23
when I was in the army about a year ago I drunk 3 cups of black coffee every day
now I drink 2 cups in a week
but I started to drink tea a lot more ;)

---

### Post by to4i on 2007-01-23
I'm drinking water right now, but later I'll get a beer :)

---

### Post by FurryNemesis on 2007-01-23
Tea, Earl Grey, Hot. (With lemon...)

---

### Post by bigken on 2007-01-23
nothing right now cos im not thirsty 

but when I am its lager and lots of it :lolflag:

---

### Post by TheMono on 2007-01-23
My daily glass of red. Today, a Stoneleigh Pinot Noir.

---

### Post by weatherman on 2007-01-23
trendy cola

---

### Post by Stex on 2007-01-23
I have a glass of sour lemonade on one side of me and a strong coffee on the other. Taking a sip from each is a taste of sensation O_o (and obviously doing **terrible** things to my brain)

---

### Post by Aetherius on 2007-01-23
right now? Water, fresh and tasty

---

### Post by compwiz18 on 2007-01-23
Absolutely nothing :grin:

---

### Post by Paul41 on 2007-01-23
water

---

### Post by Beej on 2007-01-23
A rather tasty cup of very strong tea, with a splash of milk it's terrocotta in colour.

Yorkshire Tea by Taylors of Harrogate for those in the know.

---

### Post by bonzodog on 2007-01-23
Pure Black Coffee, nothing added.

---

### Post by robert@debian on 2007-01-23
Tea right now. Later water and/or again tea - I love it :biggrin:

---

### Post by EdThaSlayer on 2007-01-23
Ice Tea, its getting quite hot these days!(well, in Kenya it is)

---

### Post by beercz on 2007-01-23
Cccoooooffffeeeeee!!!!!!!

---

### Post by lyceum on 2007-01-23
Vault, wishing it was Mello Yello, or a caffeine free energy drink :D

---

### Post by MedivhX on 2007-01-23
Pepsi :D

---

### Post by Maxwell7 on 2007-01-23
A nice glass of Luxembourg wine.

.. maybe another one later ... :-\"

---

### Post by harley_frog on 2007-01-23
Ice cold filtered water from my one liter Nalgene bottle.

---

### Post by irish_flu on 2007-01-23
Coffee.  Good, old-fashioned black coffee.

---

### Post by tagginannie on 2007-01-23
Coffee and later I'll have a couple cans of Mountain Dew I'm addicticd to "The Dew"! :D

Suzy

---

### Post by BigDave708 on 2007-01-23
I'm English, so right now it's obviously tea. It's the only non-alcoholic drink I like.

---

### Post by loserboy on 2007-01-23
Orange juice, I drink like 10 glasses a day

or  organic milk

---

### Post by smbm on 2007-01-23
Tea

---

### Post by helliewm on 2007-01-26
Luke warm tea!

---

### Post by rocknrolf77 on 2007-01-26
A cold beer :guitar:

---

### Post by Wartooth on 2007-01-26
Sprite Zero.  

Terribly unexciting. :)

---

### Post by ltk5 on 2007-01-26
Coke

... ok, finished.. :D

---

### Post by C-A on 2007-01-26
Water!

---

### Post by ezphilosophy on 2007-01-26
H2o

---

### Post by jvc26 on 2007-01-26
Coffee, kenco dark roast (I think) Its just an instant though, have no time for the proper coffee at this moment in time am about to rush out.
Il

---

### Post by cikson on 2007-01-26
Black currant :D

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-01-26
Red wine.

---

### Post by rudder on 2007-01-26
Good old-fashioned sweet tea (decaffeinated).  I can't help it guys, I grew up in the southern US:)

---

### Post by doobit on 2007-01-26
Redbridge Sorghum juice!

---

### Post by kevCast on 2007-01-26
Coffee, God's elixer.

---

### Post by timpino on 2007-01-27
I go for a "special" swedish brand of beer called Lucky Star. It's kind of not tasting much almost like american beer but still has that swedish taste with a bit to much CO2 and a crisp but small hop-taste. it's 5.1% alc by volume. Apparently it's brewed on Water, Barley Malt and Hops by one of Sweden's largest breweries Spendrups. The price is not bad for Sweden either ~1euro for a can of 500ml. Actually it's one of the cheapest beers in Sweden which really is a good thing when you down 10 a time... :)

Happy partying everybody!

---

### Post by foxmulder881 on 2007-01-27
Vanilla Coke. Usually Red Bull though.

---

### Post by Somenoob on 2007-01-27
Sprite

---

### Post by yabbadabbadont on 2007-01-27
Mountain Dew

---

### Post by Bezmotivnik on 2007-01-27
Diet tonic water over ice with lemon, while listening to Puccini's *Gianni Schicchi* on CapRadio.Org...no, wait, that's a different thread...

---

### Post by randomnumber on 2007-01-27
My self to death. 
Just kidding. It maybe a quote from futurama but I am not sure.

I am currently not drink anything but because of this article I am going to get a bottle of Dasani.

---

### Post by Bigbluecat on 2007-01-27
Interesting.

Dasani had to exit the UK as soon as they opened. They were caught bottling tap water and selling it on :confused:

They claimed to modify the water - only problem was that one of the modifications included adding bromide at levels beyond the recommended safety limit.

Made quite a splash so to speak

---

### Post by beercz on 2008-02-13
Hot Minestrone soup.

I'm @ the office and it's a cold crispy day.

Lovely!!

---

### Post by adw on 2008-02-13
Coffee:KS

---

### Post by Circus-Killer on 2008-02-13
on my fifth cup of coffee for the day :)

---

### Post by Trail on 2008-02-13
water

---

### Post by beercz on 2008-02-13
> **beercz said:**
> Hot Minestrone soup.

I'm @ the office and it's a cold crispy day.

Lovely!!
OK, back on the coffee now.  Soup was excellent though!

---

### Post by hardyn on 2008-02-13
as well... boring tap water that isn't all that cold... from a 1L wide mouth Nalgine bottle. Athough despite being boring, i sure do drink alot of the stuff.

---

### Post by Christmas on 2008-02-13
Black tea... Tasty!

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-02-13
coca-cola zero

---

### Post by hhhhhx on 2008-02-13
melted ice cream :)

---

### Post by oldb0y on 2008-02-13
Coffee with cream:D

---

### Post by RRosset on 2008-02-13
Pepsi Max
Same sugar flavour without sugar, I think a band of dwarves is inside my bottle taking out all the sugar grains. :confused:

---

### Post by Martje_001 on 2008-02-13
"DubbelFris" :popcorn:

---

### Post by solitaire on 2008-02-13
Ice cold Irn-Bru   :D:D

---

### Post by oniq on 2008-02-13
Coffee with cream and sugar - speaking of which, I think I need another cup.

---

