---
title: "5.04 Shipit CD's arrived!"
date: 2005-08-11
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by amrust on 2005-08-11
Just a quick note on Shipit.

I live in Indiana, USA. I ordered CD's just before (or after, can't remember exactly) my 1st post here, which was July 12th. My 1st Shipit CD order arrived in the mail yesterday, making it almost 1 month to the day I ordered them, and I had them in-hand. Congrats to the Shipit team, I didn't expect to get them so soon! I ordered some more for my friends, I already handed out the rest! :)

---

### Post by BWF89 on 2005-08-11
I think we should start a sub-forum under Community Chat for threads dealing with getting your shipit cd's.

---

### Post by WirelessMike on 2005-08-11
That would be great.  I've wondered for a long time now why I can't get any more.  When I first joined, I ordered some Warty cds.  I got a little more than half what I ordered (never got the 64 bit cds I ordered with the same shipment).

Anyways, I have tried ordering Hoary cds the same way.  No cds.  I tried, as suggested, "zeroing out" my order and emailing for the cds.  No cds.  Since then, I have tried from scratch again to order cds (even making a new profile, albeit with the same shipping addy).

No cds.

I started in February.  Tried again in March.  Sent the email around May...

No cds.

I finally, of course, gave up.

*****EDIT*****

As usual--  The moment I complain or whine, I am humbled.  The cds came today (probably with minutes of me posting the original message).  Now I have plenty of wonderful Ubuntu cds to distribute while I wait anxiously for Breezy final to order more!

Consider me satisfied and sufficiently humbled.    :-# 

*****/EDIT*****

---

### Post by amrust on 2005-08-11
I'm sorry if I shouldn't have started a thread for this.

I was just happy to get mine.

---

### Post by void_false on 2005-08-11
I got my CDs after 2 months. Thanks to ShipIt team!

---

### Post by atilasendil on 2005-08-13
Mine arrived too;
yesterday :-)
I live in Turkey and after less then a month my CDs are here . . .
yip peeeeeee . . .
I already have downloaded and started using and made a lot of copies to close friends; but for not-so-close friends it would be so cool to give "**original**" CDs :-)
thanks ubuntu;
thanks shipit :-)

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2005-08-13
Mine haven't arrived yet.. I am not complaining, as I know that Ubuntu is free and all that, and at work I have a fast broadband connection which allows me to download Hoary in 17 minutes... lol.., but the service is very slow..

---

### Post by xmastree on 2005-08-13
[QUOTE=Lord Illidan]download Hoary in 17 minutes... [/QUOTE]Rassum brassum msblsssl :mrgreen:


Shipit isn't meant for people like you, it's really meant for those who can't download it cheaply or quickly. So if they have any idea of your bandwidth, they might serve the more needy ones first. Makes sense, although I guess it would make it more difficult.

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2005-08-13
Yeah, but I ordered the CDs before I was working, u see...
Maybe I did a mistake in the shipping address, but anyway it is no biggy...

It was cool though, I had an old 10x cd-r drive at work, one which was state of the art maybe 5 years ago, and I could download the entire iso faster than burning it!

---

### Post by xmastree on 2005-08-13
[QUOTE=Lord Illidan]I could download the entire iso faster than burning it![/QUOTE]Heh, maybe you could download it direct to the CD!

---

### Post by atilasendil on 2005-08-13
[QUOTE=xmastree] it's really meant for those who can't download it cheaply or quickly. [/QUOTE]

Well;
I think the shipit CDs are primarily for the needy and secondly and most important for me for distribution in a descent way :-)
as my handwriting is so ugly and it would not look so good if I gave the homemade CDs to people ...

eitherway;
ubuntu is so cool with shippit . . .

remember the times people had to pay for licence, save shipping or CD cost ? ? ?

---

