---
title: "9.10 update didn't work for me"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by vaxman- on 2009-10-31
WTF!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

After all day of downloading 1300+ updates, I get an error message that it can authenticate the packages.

What kind of crap is this?  I've waited for a month with hopes that this would be better than 9.04.

---

### Post by bulldog on 2009-10-31
A whole day? pffft,I should have downloaded the live-cd and do a fresh install.
Shouldn't take more than few hours.

---

### Post by geoffd123 on 2009-10-31
> **bulldog said:**
> A whole day? pffft,I should have downloaded the live-cd and do a fresh install.
Shouldn't take more than few hours.

Don't bother, I d/l the alternative cd - 2 hours - after running the upgrade and restart it would not start, just sat there for 10 minutes flashing 'starting up'.

Eventually I managed to boot using failsafe mode.  It had not installed the nvidia drivers, but there were in my xorg.conf.  Eventually I found a way to get x to start and when rebooted my m/c..... I had only a partial upgrade. So then it refused to do the upgrade from cdrom and ended up spending 12+ hours installing from the net.

Having done all that it tells me it cannot authenticate a load of packages and so refuses to load them.  This includes stuff like apache and kde.

So now I have amachine that is only partially upgraded.


What a f******g waste of my time.

---

### Post by linuxluver on 2009-10-31
Personally, I think the entire Ubuntu Distro Upgrading system is half-baked. Maybe even no-baked. Such a heap of trash that it makes Ubuntu and Debian look crappy as a whole. I upgraded today, and now my entire system is exploded, and absolutely nothing works anymore.

---

### Post by flipper9 on 2009-10-31
Sigh...

1. Download Live version, test if computer works with Karmic.  Check release notes and use Google to look for workarounds for known problems.  If no work, no install.
2. Backup your data.
3. Do CLEAN install of Karmic. Do NOT upgrade.
4. Happiness for all.

---

### Post by Justbill on 2009-10-31
Yeah........crap is a good word

---

### Post by gregmo on 2009-10-31
Upgrading from 9.04 and all I can get for downloading packages is 20k/sec?  First upgrade failed; it couldn't complete the download because of timeouts.  This is sad.  Even windoze can be installed from scratch in less time than "About 7 hours remaining."

---

### Post by mrdak on 2009-10-31
This forum is a place for you to get FREE help for the FREE OS you're all trying to install. 
Why get all bent about this........:(

---

### Post by whoop on 2009-11-01
> **linuxluver said:**
> Personally, I think the entire Ubuntu Distro Upgrading system is half-baked. Maybe even no-baked. Such a heap of trash that it makes Ubuntu and Debian look crappy as a whole. I upgraded today, and now my entire system is exploded, and absolutely nothing works anymore.

I really don't get that. I have never done a fresh install in my life (excluding my first install off course), and been running linux (and ubuntu for years). On allot of threads I hear people talking about "fresh installs is the way to go....".
If that where true for me, it would be a total crappy situation! Like I have nothing better to do than do installs all day (especially if you are maintaining multiple systems). At least a troublesome upgrade is somewhat educational, to say the least. It's not like ubuntu is Windows or something, we don't have a registry that gets clogged up...

If an upgrade broke your system, its a **bug**, get it fixed (is my opinion). If it's not a bug, take care of your OS better, or learn how you messed it up.

Although I totally respect anyone doing a fresh install (every 6 months), I really disagree creating the fable that ubuntu/linux needs fresh installs to function properly.

---

### Post by gunashekar on 2009-11-01
> **whoop said:**
> I really don't get that. I have never done a fresh install in my life (excluding my first install off course), and been running linux (and ubuntu for years). On allot of threads I hear people talking about "fresh installs is the way to go....".
.. I really disagree creating the fable that ubuntu/linux needs fresh installs to function properly.

I had to fresh install karmic to take advantage of :
1. ext4
2. grub 2
among other reasons.

Is there a way to get these without a fresh install?

---

### Post by skyiscrying on 2009-11-01
I don't like to update **any** system to a *new* version. It's like putting new expensive paint on a surface that has not been prepared properly. Clean the slate and start from scratch. Believe me ...... it was the only way to to get rid of malware in the earlier M$ operating systems.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-11-01
> **gunashekar said:**
> I had to fresh install karmic to take advantage of :
1. ext4
2. grub 2
among other reasons.

Is there a way to get these without a fresh install?

Yes.  See my post (number 8 ) here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1299098](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1299098)

---

### Post by whoop on 2009-11-01
> **gunashekar said:**
> I had to fresh install karmic to take advantage of :
1. ext4
2. grub 2
among other reasons.

Is there a way to get these without a fresh install?
examples:

Ext4:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1118295](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1118295)
Grub2:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2)

---

### Post by whoop on 2009-11-01
> **skyiscrying said:**
> I don't like to update **any** system to a *new* version. It's like putting new expensive paint on a surface that has not been prepared properly. Clean the slate and start from scratch. Believe me ...... it was the only way to to get rid of malware in the earlier M$ operating systems.

As you (should) know: linux != windows

---

### Post by hoppipolla on 2009-11-01
yeah man! How DARE they try to provide you with a free update to their free OS, and then there is a small flaw with it that requires tech support! Good god! lol

I know it's annoying, but there's no need to just lay into it o.O

---

### Post by Tipped OuT on 2009-11-01
> **hoppipolla said:**
> yeah man! How DARE they try to provide you with a free update to their free OS, and then there is a small flaw with it that requires tech support! Good god! lol

I know it's annoying, but there's no need to just lay into it o.O

I understand it's free, and sometimes we take things for granted, but if I download an operating system claiming to "just work", then I expect it to "just work". Not fail upgrading and screw up my entire machine.

This hasn't happen to me, because I do not have a computer ATM, but I'm speaking in a sense of someone else's perspective.

---

### Post by mdsmedia on 2009-11-01
I upgraded, using the Update button in the Update Manager, and it "just works".

Your mileage may vary, but with millions of different hardware specs out there, I hardly find that surprising.

---

### Post by Khakilang on 2009-11-01
I did a fresh install after trying to upgrade. Its take almost a day. Right now I am trying to get YouTube to work. Other than that everything works great.

---

### Post by vaxman- on 2009-11-01
> **mdsmedia said:**
> I upgraded, using the Update button in the Update Manager, and it "just works".

Your mileage may vary, but with millions of different hardware specs out there, I hardly find that surprising.

I tried upgrading to 9.04 a few weeks ago.  It was SLOW... painfully SLOW and many problems with the graphics.  I reverted back to 8.10 and decided to wait for 9.10.  

I had to install 9.04 to follow the upgrade path.  I too clicked on the [UPDATE] button in the update manager to update from the net.  After downloading 1300+ items and the speed of dark, it began the upgrade and fail claiming it couldn't find some of the updates it supposedly downloaded.

I downloaded the alternate CD ISO and burned it.  I restored 8.10 and tried the update from the alternate CD.  I clicked to get the latest updates from the net.  Same thing when it began the install.

I restored 8.10 again and used the alternate CD...  THis time I said NOT to use the net.  I'm on 9.04 again and it looks pretty crippled.  I'm going to try getting to 9.10 in hopes that this will clear up.  Reading other followups in this thread do not give me a good feeling for success.

---

### Post by HungryOcopus on 2009-11-01
Update didn't work for me either. It took 8 hours to download, and I had to go out before it finished. When I came back I got an error concerning a virtual box package, then the computer didn't restart, and kept freezing with many graphical glitches, and my grub boot menu had about 12 entries for ubuntu.

I did a clean install and it's fine now, but if I didn't have all my stuff backed up, that would have been a real pain. I understand clean installs are superior, but a lot of people who are new to ubuntu sometimes don't have the time nor inclination to back up, burn a cd, and install - especially if we're already happy with the way the distro runs and we just want to keep up to date with major developments.

If there is going to be an update feature at all, it should at least be secure and not jeopardise the whole system. Just my 2 cents.

---

### Post by phrostbyte on 2009-11-01
Maybe there is some merit in a rolling release.

---

### Post by longtom on 2009-11-01
> **phrostbyte said:**
> Maybe there is some merit in a rolling release.

Maybe there is - and than you can go ahead and use one.  Many around to choose from.

Ubuntu will not be one for the foreseeable future...

---

### Post by bulldog on 2009-11-01
Well,I only can speak for myself,and after some disappointing adventures with upgrades,I did something rather radical and made some adjustments on the partition part.
I made two partitions for the / part,each 10GB,one swap 2GB and a /home 150GB

I installed 9.04 on one 10GB partition using swap and /home of course.
Then I installed the 9.10 Beta on the other 10GB partition,using the same swap and /home,only using a different username and password.
This will create a new folder in your /home with no interference of the 9.04 install,so nothing can be messed up.
You can copy all you need from the 9.04 to the 9.10 folder,but you have to re-install any application you used in the 9.04 install,that's the down side.
If,for any reason my 9.10 should fail,I simply use my working 9.04 and can take the time to fix the 9.10 if I feel to it.

You can imagine the next step I presume?
If the next ubuntu comes to download,and 9.10 is running well at that time,I remove the 9.04 folder from my /home,and install the next ubuntu the same way as I did the 9.10,using another username and password as the 9.10.

Doing things this way,will cost only some hdd space,but you always have a spare ubuntu on hand.

---

### Post by vaxman- on 2009-11-01
OK... I did a clean install of 9.10 to see what OTHER problems I can look forward to before trying to actually use it.

LEFT-HANDED MOUSE setting does not work.  This is really annoying and, apparently, I'll need to wait for some time for a fix.  This alone is going to send me back to 8.10.

I did find a discussion and a command:

```
sudo -u gdm gconftool-2 --set --type boolean /apps/gdm/simple-greeter/disable_user_list true
```

To fix the login dialog menu and restore username & password dialog.

Items in my Desktop folder no longer appear on my desktop.  I haven't located any functional work-around for this yet.

I'll report as I find more annoyances and nuisances.

---

### Post by Ozor Mox on 2009-11-01
I don't know why people complain about the update tool every time a new release is out. Updating half the packages on your machine is a pretty complicated process, and I think expecting it to run completely flawlessly every time for every single computer is quite unrealistic. I use a very simple process:

1. Backup stuff.
2. Run upgrade.
3. If computer explodes, go to 4.
   If computer works, go to 5.
4. Do a clean install using CD.
5. Profit.

---

### Post by Dark Aspect on 2009-11-01
> **gunashekar said:**
> I had to fresh install karmic to take advantage of :
1. ext4
2. grub 2
among other reasons.

Is there a way to get these without a fresh install?

Both of which are beta, I have no problem with grub 2 but I am still running ext3.

As for the op, use a clean install.

> **Ozor Mox said:**
> 1. Backup stuff.
2. Run upgrade.
3. If computer explodes, go to 4.
   If computer works, go to 5.
4. Do a clean install using CD.
5. Profit.

Or avoid the trouble with:

1. Buy an external hard drive
2. Move home folder to the new drive
3. Avoid the upgrade button
4. Clean install on the main hard drive
5. Move home folder back over
6. Profit

---

### Post by whoop on 2009-11-01
> **Ozor Mox said:**
> I don't know why people complain about the update tool every time a new release is out. Updating half the packages on your machine is a pretty complicated process, and I think expecting it to run completely flawlessly every time for every single computer is quite unrealistic. I use a very simple process:

1. Backup stuff.
2. Run upgrade.
3. If computer explodes, go to 4.
   If computer works, go to 5.
4. Do a clean install using CD.
5. Profit.

I partially agree. I don't agree with "3. If computer explodes, go to 4."
Whenever my computer "explodes" I try to figure out what happened, what went wrong, You learn nothing by reinstalling.
For me it's more like:

*I do a fresh install when:*
*1. The computer does not have ubuntu installed.* This can happen due to a first install of ubuntu on the machine (this happened loads of times for me) or if I had some hardware failure with a primary disk (this happened a couple of times for me)
*2. The system seems messed up beyond repair, I posted bugs, tried workarounds and nothing worked.* (this never happened to me).

My upgrade from 9.04 to 9.10 had two hiccups.
I tried to figure out what caused them, and figured out it was due to the fact I had installed grub2 when still using Jaunty. I devised workarounds for both hiccups and posted bug reports for both issues (including the workarounds off course):
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apt/+bug/445653](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apt/+bug/445653)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/440633](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/440633)

The bugs aren't fixed (yet), which is too bad, but at least the problems are known and documented, and people can use the workaround as well (if the don't figure it out on there own).

If I had done a fresh install I would have learnt nothing and this information could have been lost.
It is also interesting to note that the bugs occurred because I had some (albeit very slightly) unusual set-up (jaunty with grub2)

---

### Post by vaxman- on 2009-11-01
It appears that the support for KeySpan serial devices was removed from the 9.10 kernel too.  Plugging the device in gives me no /dev/ttyUSB* device.

I'll be checking out the Sierra Wireless AC597E EVDO in a short while.

---

### Post by vaxman- on 2009-11-01
> **vaxman- said:**
> It appears that the support for KeySpan serial devices was removed from the 9.10 kernel too.  Plugging the device in gives me no /dev/ttyUSB* device.

I'll be checking out the Sierra Wireless AC597E EVDO in a short while.
Progress...
[LIST=1]
[*]KeySpan issue sorted out.
[*]Desktop icons issue sorted out.
[*]AC597E EVDO works but there is something amuck in the rules I had for the device in /etc/udev/rules.d/60-symlinks.rules which have worked fine to define SYMLINKs for the 3 /dev/ttyUSBn devices instantiated when the EVDO card is inserted.  The rules were created to avoid various naming conflicts.
[/LIST]
Still an issue:
[LIST=1]
[*]Can't make trackpad mouse buttons left-handed.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by vaxman- on 2009-11-02
Well, there doesn't seem to be any resolution to the left-handed mouse issue anytime soon so I've elected to fix it myself.  

In my .Xmodmap file, I added
```
pointer = 3 2 1
```and set the mouse back to being right-handed in the "System/Preferences/Mouse" settings.

Another mouse bugger... plugging and unplugging an external USB mouse seems to be problematic in 9.10.  Sometimes the mouse is recognize; other times it is not.  lsusb shows that the mouse can be seen when it isn't being recognized as a pointing device.  I've not yet tracked down a way to work around this, especially since it is intermittent.

Oh, BTW, the udev issue with the EVDO card is fixed.  A minor change in the information as displayed with "udevadm" showed the way.

---

