---
title: "6.06LTS versus 7.04"
date: 2007-05-08
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by B-Con on 2007-05-08
Just a poll to satisfy my curiosity, who here has used Dapper and Feisty, and which version of Ubuntu did you like better?

Dapper LTS was a bit more hands-on, I think, ie, less user-friendly.

The two UI things that ticked me off about upgrading from Dapper to Feisty was:

1) The permissions tab: The permissions tab got more "user-friendly", with "read" and "read-only" options in a pull-down menu and a generic "execute" checkbox rather than individual checkboxes for each permission for each user. It just looks pathetic.

2) The "USB unplugged unsafely" warning: Holy crap, I know I unplugged my USB drive, you don't have to warn me that I may have done so unsafely. It feels like bloody Windows... :mad: 

Aside from that, functionality-wise, I have no complaints. 

Thoughts? Comments? Expletives?

---

### Post by reacocard on 2007-05-08
> **B-Con said:**
> Just a poll to satisfy my curiosity, who here has used Dapper and Feisty, and which version of Ubuntu did you like better?

Dapper LTS was a bit more hands-on, I think, ie, less user-friendly.

The two UI things that ticked me off about upgrading from Dapper to Feisty was:

1) The permissions tab: The permissions tab got more "user-friendly", with "read" and "read-only" options in a pull-down menu and a generic "execute" checkbox rather than individual checkboxes for each permission for each user. It just looks pathetic.

2) The "USB unplugged unsafely" warning: Holy crap, I know I unplugged my USB drive, you don't have to warn me that I may have done so unsafely. It feels like bloody Windows... :mad: 

Aside from that, functionality-wise, I have no complaints. 

Thoughts? Comments? Expletives?

You can fix (1) by opening gconf-editor and checking the apps -> nautilus -> preferences -> show_advanced_permissions option. No idea about (2), but it has a point. You really shouldn't remove the drive without unmounting/ejecting it first.

---

### Post by tbroderick on 2007-05-08
Easily Dapper LTS. I don't know why they don't backport more to Dapper.

---

### Post by jharbert on 2007-05-08
Dapper was a good OS, that's what I started with.  I've been very happy with Feisty though.

---

### Post by Znupi on 2007-05-08
1) Totally agree, I was shocked when I went to the permissions tab for the first time in 7.04, but thanks reacocard for the tip! :)
2) I disagree, it's a good thing to be warned, so when you'll lose all your data from the USB drive you won't yell "Damn that Linux!". (that and the fact that some people don't know they have to unmount if first...:rolleyes:)

Anyway, I like 7.04. Before it, I never thought I could make the switch from Windows to Linux. But from the first time I booted 7.04, I never booted Windows again (well, just once, to see if my router was working from Windows). Right now I'm advertising it everywhere I can, and I'm starting to convince friends to try it. It's just great :)

---

### Post by GeneralZod on 2007-05-08
There were a number of critical regressions with 7.04 on my laptop (bluetooth headset no longer works; hibernate became flaky) so I'm sticking with Dapper for the time being.

My desktop was upgraded from Dapper to Feisty, though, as I couldn't be bothered to manually update to the library versions required by KDE4.

---

### Post by goumples on 2007-05-08
> **jharbert said:**
> Dapper was a good OS, that's what I started with.  I've been very happy with Feisty though.

Feisty works great for me... I've yet to find a hardware incompatibility with any of my toys.

---

### Post by Hallvor on 2007-05-08
Dapper is not as user friendly as Feisty, but it is rock solid and is an LTS.

---

### Post by public_void on 2007-05-08
I'm still using Dapper because of the hassle of upgrading, and getting my desktop to way I like it. I'll may upgrade to Feisty + 1 or + 2, but haven't decided. The only really annoyance is the version of packages in the repositories. Dapper is rock solid for me, by I'd like to have more up-to-date packages.

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2007-05-08
Yesterday, I installed Feisty next to Dapper (I never used Edgy) and I like Feisty a lot.

Having no internet connection at home, I couldn't use my HP printer. With Feisty, it worked out of the box. I had that screen resolution problem and will fix it tonight, hopefully, I copied the thread on fixing it.

Dapper and Feisty look the same the way I have it set up, so I do not know anything about the visual effects.

Dapper couldn't work with Vista on my network, but Feisty did.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2007-05-08
I use Feisty because, with it, suspend works on my laptop.

Suspend doesn't work when I use Dapper or Edgy.

---

### Post by PatrickMay16 on 2007-05-08
I prefer Dapper because it uses much less resources than Edgy or Feisty.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2007-05-08
> **PatrickMay16 said:**
> I prefer Dapper because it uses much less resources than Edgy or Feisty.
It does?

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-05-08
I'm a little caught in the middle right now. I really love Feisty and how easy it is, but there's a few bugs that are driving me crazy. Open a slide show with Impress make a few changes, view the slide show then exit and discard the changes, you'll see what I mean. It's been around since Herd 5 and still no fix:(  Remove an icon theme with the Theme Manager and watch it crash. Use the Switch User feature and then when you log out from the other user you're stuck at a blank screen.

I have reported all of these bugs on Launchpad but still no progress. I'm willing to put up with these on the desktop PC, but on my laptop I need something stable, so that's why I went back to Dapper on my laptop.

---

### Post by PatrickMay16 on 2007-05-08
> **aysiu said:**
> It does?

I had dapper running on my old 256MB thinkpad. After I disabled some useless services and did some other tweaks in dapper, the amount of memory used after logging into GNOME from the gdm screen was about 80MB.

I recently got a new laptop which had 512MB RAM (for a while until I firmly seated the extra memory, which had come loose during shipping. So now it has 1GB). Now with Edgy, with the same tweaks applied, after booting and logging in 130MB of RAM is used. This laptop with Edgy and 512MB of RAM was swapping as much as or even worse as my thinkpad (with 256MB RAM) had been doing with dapper.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-05-08
> **aysiu said:**
> It does?
Yes actually it does. It's very obvious on my laptop. Both Edgy and Feisty are more eager to use swap than Dapper, unless I adjust the swappiness. I think it has to do with the newer kernels having more hardware support and such. Although you'd never notice because Feisty is really fast.

---

### Post by Compucore on 2007-05-08
I use dapper drake on my desktop computer here since it has been very good to me over here. And I had installed Feisty on my laptop since I am usually going to working or bringing my laptop around and with feisty I can show the others what it is all about with some of the things feisty has to offer to the others. But for me I enjoy working with both since they are both flexible in their own way on their appropriate machines. I have no preference from one over the other. They are the same to me from Ubuntu. It would be like asking do you like Ubuntu over Sun Solaris 10. 

COmpucore

---

