---
title: "12.04 will be named..."
date: 2011-05-06
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by giddyup306 on 2011-05-06
Promiscuous Porcupine?  (too obvious?)

Let's see some creative suggestions. :)

---

### Post by Oxwivi on 2011-05-06
Oh, oh, I know! Pink Pig!

---

### Post by matthewbpt on 2011-05-06
Prejudiced Penguin, because us Linux Users are quite prejudiced against non-FOSS OS's... well the animal has to be the penguin because it's our mascot! Can't miss that opportunity!

---

### Post by Johnsie on 2011-05-06
Pink Panther.. hmmmm... maybe a copyright issue there...

Productive Possum

---

### Post by wewantutopia on 2011-05-06
There is already at least one of these threads...

[URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1748973&page=3"]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1748973
[/URL]

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-05-06
Psychopathic Ptarmigan

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-05-06
Pedantic Platypus

---

### Post by rg4w on 2011-05-06
Psychedelic Pteranodon

---

### Post by dh04000 on 2011-05-06
Pondering Phoenix

---

### Post by Madspyman on 2011-05-06
Pontius Pilate, because its washing it's hands of Gnome while crucifying it.

---

### Post by walt.smith1960 on 2011-05-06
> **Madspyman said:**
> Pontius Pilate, because its washing it's hands of Gnome while crucifying it.

How so?  Unity runs on top of Gnome2.x.  Won't 11.10's Unity run on some flavor of Gnome3? I'm pretty sure that by 12.04 Gnome3 will be as available as Gnome2 is in Natty. I don't think Canonical is abandoning Gnome, just adding a different "face".  Gnome itself is abandoning panels and the Gnome2 interface as I understand it.  I also suspect that there will be more how-tos and tool kits to customize both Unity and Gnome3 shell.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-05-06
> **Madspyman said:**
> Pontius Pilate, because its washing it's hands of Gnome while crucifying it.

Enough of this FUD, please. The official Gnome2 uses Metacity, the official Gnome3 uses Gnome-shell.

Ubuntu 10.04 and 10.10 use Gnome2 + Compiz. 
Ubuntu 11.04 uses Gnome2 + Compiz/Unity. 
Ubuntu 11.10 and after will be Gnome3 + Unity.

---

### Post by Madspyman on 2011-05-06
> **walt.smith1960 said:**
> How so?  Unity runs on top of Gnome2.x.  Won't 11.10's Unity run on some flavor of Gnome3?  I don't get the hate for Unity. I think it's intended for noobs, grannies and others who don't want to know about and don't care about command lines, desktop environments, Emerald, and other intricacies.  Anyone who know what these are and cares about them knows enough to be able to install or tweak any one of the other alternatives that are free for the download.

> **3Miro said:**
> Enough of this FUD, please. The official Gnome2 uses Metacity, the official Gnome3 uses Gnome-shell.

Ubuntu 10.04 and 10.10 use Gnome2 + Compiz. 
Ubuntu 11.04 uses Gnome2 + Compiz/Unity. 
Ubuntu 11.10 and after will be Gnome3 + Unity.

I meant it as a joke (forgot text doesn't imply voice inflection). I knew Unity used Gnome 2 currently, but was unaware of it's plans to use Gnome 3 in the future. I needed just needed a silly reason to justify my name suggestion. Looks like I killed the thread instead. How about we just continue with the naming.

Perfect Puma.

---

### Post by Warpnow on 2011-05-06
If its not something Penguin I will bitch and moan for years.

---

### Post by spupy on 2011-05-06
Pornographic Pterodactyl.

I have one particular video in mind about that name, but I can't post it here. [-X

---

