---
title: "Poll: Where is &#20170;&#24184;&#31119;?"
date: 2009-12-21
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by amitabhishek on 2009-12-21
It has been almost 6 hours since no post/thread so I was just kind of wondering?

---

### Post by Exodist on 2009-12-21
LOL Maybe on his Blog

EDIT: I voted he moved to Win7.. I will have to watch for flying objects when he gets back.. LOL

---

### Post by Sand &amp; Mercury on 2009-12-21
EDIT: Nvm, misread 'hours' for 'months'

LOLOLOL.

---

### Post by Daisuke_Aramaki on 2009-12-21
I think he is still here, and goes by the name hoppipolla now.

---

### Post by wersdaluv on 2009-12-21
> **amitabhishek said:**
> It has been almost 6 hours since no post/thread so I was just kind of wondering?
LOL

6 hours??? wow

---

### Post by Crunchy the Headcrab on 2009-12-21
I chose out seeing Avatar with his girlfriend because that's what I'd like to do with mine.  I don't think she'd do it cheerfully.  Oh she'd do it if I asked her, but she wouldn't enjoy it.

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-12-21
Sleeping. Probably dreaming of more polls to come up with. :P

---

### Post by madnessjack on 2009-12-21
Shouldn't we be organising a search party?

---

### Post by Simon17 on 2009-12-21
He was banned for using non-English characters in his user name which is in violation of rule 9 in Secion I - General Policy.

---

### Post by HappinessNow on 2009-12-21
I voted for he was just sleeping. :P

---

### Post by amitabhishek on 2009-12-21
Back and how...!:P

---

### Post by madnessjack on 2009-12-21
haha, guess everyone needs to sleep every once in a while :P

---

### Post by RiceMonster on 2009-12-21
Next thread to create:

"Poll: How long until someone creates a thread about how many threads &#20170;&#24184;&#31119; posts?"

---

### Post by koleoptero on 2009-12-21
> **madnessjack said:**
> Shouldn't we be organising a search party?

No!

---

### Post by blueshiftoverwatch on 2009-12-21
Haha, I've actually come to enjoy his constant random threads.

---

### Post by dragos240 on 2009-12-21
> **&#20170 said:**
> I voted for he was just sleeping. :P

You're back! Yay! :KS

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2009-12-21
I wanted to vote that he was in greenland trying to take it over. But it wasn't a choice. :/

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2009-12-21
Do I care?

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2009-12-21
> **gjoellee said:**
> Do I care?

Apparently if you're posting.

---

### Post by Crunchy the Headcrab on 2009-12-21
> **MasterNetra said:**
> Apparently if your posting.
If your what, is posting?

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2009-12-21
> **Crunchy the Headcrab said:**
> If your what, is posting?

you're* Everybody else seems to be using "your", I just wanted to be popular! :p

---

### Post by doas777 on 2009-12-21
> **Crunchy the Headcrab said:**
> If your what, is posting?
just imagine the apostrophe. it'll be ok

---

### Post by Groucho Marxist on 2009-12-21
> **doas777 said:**
> just imagine the apostrophe. it'll be ok

I imagined my apostrophe was portrayed by Hayden Christiansen in the toughest role of his career.

---

### Post by JDShu on 2009-12-21
Its certainly true that up until a couple days ago, &#20170;&#24184;&#31119; had been very quiet.

---

