---
title: "I'm 14"
date: 2010-06-11
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by ssj6akshat on 2010-06-11
today is my 14th birthday.woohoo:guitar:

---

### Post by RichardLinx on 2010-06-11
Um.. Happy Birthday!

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-06-11
Excellent. Hopefully many more to come my friend.

---

### Post by julio_cortez on 2010-06-11
Oh, I wish I could be 14 again =(

Happy birthday, by the way!!

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2010-06-11
> **ssj6akshat said:**
> today is my 14th birthday.woohoo:guitar:
Happy birthday

---

### Post by XubuRoxMySox on 2010-06-11
[SIZE="7"]Yaaaaay! Happy birthday!![/SIZE]
[IMG]http://img815.imageshack.us/img815/3139/keefersanimatedflowers2.gif[/IMG]

Wishing you many more happy birthdays,
Robin

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-06-11
Your birthdays here, so give a cheer!
You've lasted through another year.
Be sure you have some birthday fun, 
you might not get another one. 

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5WCqEpDl-0w](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5WCqEpDl-0w)

(3:15 onward for the song version)

---

### Post by squilookle on 2010-06-11
Happy birthday, mate. Have a good one.

---

### Post by Viva on 2010-06-11
Happy Birthday:)

---

### Post by koleoptero on 2010-06-11
Happy birthday.

[IMG]http://img.xcitefun.net/users/2009/12/127139,xcitefun-happy-birthday.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by gutterslob on 2010-06-11
Happy Birthday!!

Hope you have a good one.

---

### Post by chucky chuckaluck on 2010-06-11
hey, i'm 14 too, but i have been for the past 39 years. happy birthday and hope you make it to 15 someday.

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-06-11
I was 14 once...happy bday

---

### Post by Tristam Green on 2010-06-11
Opened thread expecting OP to read "...and what is this?!"  /disappoint.









































Happy Birthday

---

### Post by sydbat on 2010-06-11
> **Tristam Green said:**
> Opened thread expecting OP to read "...and what is this?!"  /disappoint.









































Happy BirthdayLOL!

And Happy Birthday ssj6akshat!!

---

### Post by Swagman on 2010-06-11
Happy birthday to you
Squashed tomatoes and stew.....

---

### Post by Phrea on 2010-06-11
Aaaah, to be 14 again...

Congratulations, my good sir.

---

### Post by anaconda on 2010-06-11
> **julio_cortez said:**
> Oh, I wish I could be 14 again =(

Same here...  If I could still have all my current memories....

Happy birthday

---

### Post by Phrea on 2010-06-11
When I was 14, [this](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don't_You_(Forget_About_Me)) was the #1 hit.

---

### Post by samalex on 2010-06-11
To be 14 with today's technology is truly exciting!  What an awesome time to be growing up.  

Sam

---

### Post by JDShu on 2010-06-11
I remember being 14 and laughing at other forumites (on the forum I used to go on when I was that age) for being old (over 20s). They told me that I would be their age before I knew it. They were right :(

---

### Post by Eisenwinter on 2010-06-11
I don't wish to relive the experiences I had as a 14 year old. I was a very hateful and angry teenager.

---

### Post by Tristam Green on 2010-06-11
> **Eisenwinter said:**
> I don't wish to relive the experiences I had as a 14 year old. I was a very hateful and angry teenager.

This is different from you now, being a hateful and angry adult, how? :)

---

### Post by Eisenwinter on 2010-06-11
> **Tristam Green said:**
> This is different from you now, being a hateful and angry adult, how? :)
Well, I'm not as hateful and angry as I was back then. I no longer want to kill all other humans and then commit suicide ;)

---

### Post by Tristam Green on 2010-06-11
> **Eisenwinter said:**
> Well, I'm not as hateful and angry as I was back then. I no longer want to kill all other humans and then commit suicide ;)

[img]http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/a/a6/Bender_Rodriguez.png[/img]

Hey pretty mama, you wanna kill all humans with me?

---

### Post by Eisenwinter on 2010-06-11
> **Tristam Green said:**
> [img]http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/a/a6/Bender_Rodriguez.png[/img]

Hey pretty mama, you wanna kill all humans with me?

How can anyone resist an offer like that?

---

### Post by julio_cortez on 2010-06-11
> **Eisenwinter said:**
> Well, I'm not as hateful and angry as I was back then. I no longer want to kill all other humans and then commit suicide ;)
Well, if you're going to commit suicide, why bother killing everyone before? You're going to die, after all.. So choose the lazy way and kill yourself only :lolflag:

---

### Post by cespinal on 2010-06-11
im 12 and what is this

---

### Post by RiceMonster on 2010-06-11
> **JDShu said:**
> I remember being 14 and laughing at other forumites (on the forum I used to go on when I was that age) for being old (over 20s). They told me that I would be their age before I knew it. They were right :(

Ah, the old age of 20+

---

### Post by pricetech on 2010-06-11
Enjoy your youth while you can.

---

### Post by JDShu on 2010-06-11
> **RiceMonster said:**
> Ah, the old age of 20+

indeed

---

### Post by sydbat on 2010-06-11
> **RiceMonster said:**
> Ah, the old age of 20+Yup. And now that I'm in my 40's, I guess that I am dead...cool...that makes me a zombie...

---

### Post by Cam42 on 2010-06-11
Happy birthday!
I was 14, a few months ago. xD

---

### Post by limestone on 2010-06-11
Awesome! Happy happy birthday...

---

### Post by MCVenom on 2010-06-11
14 here, too :) 

Happy Birthday!

---

### Post by JDShu on 2010-06-11
> **sydbat said:**
> Yup. And now that I'm in my 40's, I guess that I am dead...cool...that makes me a zombie...

You're ancient... I hear they didn't have broadband during your time :confused:

---

### Post by friTTe81 on 2010-06-11
Congrats =)
and i agree the postr above me...enjoy your youth, next year im turning 30 =/

---

### Post by sydbat on 2010-06-11
> **JDShu said:**
> You're ancient... I hear they didn't have broadband during your time :confused:Nope. We had to send our email over a dial up connection...uphill...both ways...

---

### Post by RiceMonster on 2010-06-11
> **sydbat said:**
> Nope. We had to send our email over a dial up connection...uphill...both ways...

Dial up? What's that? Maybe you can tell me what a "floppy disk" is too!

---

### Post by sydbat on 2010-06-11
> **RiceMonster said:**
> Dial up? What's that? Maybe you can tell me what a "floppy disk" is too!It's from "the before time".

---

### Post by mystmaiden on 2010-06-11
Happy Birthday!!! Have a healthy, happy 14th year and many, many more years to come!!

---

### Post by MichealH on 2010-06-11
Hey, No fair! Im 13, Yay!

Oh and Happy B'day!

---

### Post by KrisInfinity on 2010-06-11
Happy Birthday!!

---

### Post by KiraLexi on 2010-06-11
Happy birthday!

Wow, I feel old.

---

### Post by CJ Master on 2010-06-11
Happy birthday! Here's a great birthday song to you:

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oHg5SJYRHA0](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oHg5SJYRHA0)

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2010-06-11
I just realised, at your age, I was cursing at Windows ME. This makes me feel old.

(You might not know Windows ME. But with Windows ME, I was happy if it only crashed at shutdown.)

Anyway:

HAPPY BIRTHDAY

---

### Post by sanderella on 2010-06-11
Happy birthday! I'm 66 now, but only yesterday I was 14.

This is your birthday cake....

---

### Post by Swagman on 2010-06-11
Aaaaaah Youth...

It's wasted on the young !!

Enjoy yourself dude

---

### Post by MCVenom on 2010-06-12
> **RiceMonster said:**
> Dial up? What's that? Maybe you can tell me what a "floppy disk" is too!
I was five when they had those things... My old pc didn't even have a CD burner back then! Good times man, good times...

Wow, now I'm remembering my childhood... I remember being five, six, or seven years old and taking my Dad's Win 98 (or maybe it was ME?) install disc and reinstalling Windows on my pc every other day, just for the fun of it... Formatting floppy discs in the command shell... Just messing around.

Wait? Command shell? Being able to reinstall as much as I want? No wonder I eventually started using Linux, I indoctrinated myself to these things as a first grader! :lolflag:

---

### Post by MCVenom on 2010-06-12
> **sanderd17 said:**
> I just realised, at your age, I was cursing at Windows ME. This makes me feel old.

(You might not know Windows ME. But with Windows ME, I was happy if it only crashed at shutdown.)

Anyway:

HAPPY BIRTHDAY
Hehe... ME was okay for me. But then XP came, and my parents finally got me an internet connection, and I got ad/spyware... :(

---

### Post by koleoptero on 2010-06-12
> **BlackOtaku said:**
> Hehe... ME was okay for me. But then XP came, and my parents finally got me an internet connection, and I got ad/spyware... :(

Yeah ME was great, you could catch 100 viruses and not notice a difference since it was constantly BSODing anyway. But then xp ruined it all.

---

### Post by MCVenom on 2010-06-12
> **koleoptero said:**
> Yeah ME was great, you could catch 100 viruses and not notice a difference since it was constantly BSODing anyway. But then xp ruined it all.
Once again, I never really noticed anything really unstable about ME; though I didn't have an internet connection back then, I wasn't being exposed to much. XP was fine, but I was an idiot as a kid. XP is my favorite Windows actually, because I haven't used 7 yet. :P 

I had absolutely no problem with any version of Windows until Vista; between not being fond of Aero, the bloat, the bloatware (including the antivirus suite that kept trying to tell me that Firefox was a virus, while Internet Explorer was slow and sometimes refused to work), the constant virus scanning and defragmenting, only to still have my laptop still slow to a crawl for no apparent reason, I'm scared to touch Windows again. Still I hear Win7's pretty nice. I'll have to try it the next time I come by a few hundred bucks, till then I'm happy with Ubuntu :P

---

### Post by Windows Nerd on 2010-06-13
Happy Birthday mate; you're born one day after me!

---

### Post by lisati on 2010-06-13
A belated "Happy Birthday" from me.
I've been 14 (or having moments wishing I was) for somewhere near 36 years.

<start frail old person's voice>
Back when I was 14, it would be unusual for someone to have a hand-held calculator, home computer, or digital watch. There was also only one TV station available for me to look at, and many of the programs where still shown in black and white.
<end frail old person's voice>
> **Swagman said:**
> Happy birthday to you
Squashed tomatoes and stew.....
That's a bit better than one or two similar songs I thought of..... :)

---

### Post by toupeiro on 2010-06-13
Happy Birthday!


When I was 14, Alice in Chains had the number 1 rock song on the charts: No Excuses.

I think the number 1 on the overall billboard top 40 was something horrible like Ace of Base.

---

