---
title: "127.0.0.1 - ubuntuforum user visits site - strange"
date: 2007-12-31
forum: The Cafe
---

### Post by nowshining on 2007-12-31
this is strange, a user with a refer from ubuntuforums.org visited my site on Dec. 30 2007 @ approx. 6:33am with firefox and linux, however there is no IP except for 127.0.0.1 which is a local ip, the site is hosted on freewebs so what could this mean? This is the only one showing 127.0.0.1.

I'm pretty curious as to why it shows 127.0.0.1 w refer of the forums here, as I'd really like to know....

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-12-31
127.0.0.1 is you. It's your local IP for your computer :lolflag:

---

### Post by nowshining on 2007-12-31
funny, but I didn't click a refer link on the forums - i have refering set to 0 and turned off in swiftfox..so ur answer is not relevant to mine..

I know 2 facts

1.)I did NOT click a link to go my own website on the forums this morning and

2.)I have referrring turned off in about:config

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2007-12-31
Perhaps the host visited it?

---

### Post by riven0 on 2007-12-31
Perhaps it's a ghost in your computer. :)

---

### Post by Paqman on 2007-12-31
Erm, wild stab in the dark: Fasterfox prefetching?

---

### Post by nowshining on 2007-12-31
ghost - na, funny tho, fasterfox I have it but I do not have pre-fetching on, neither do I have pipelining on.

I visit the site almost daily via exact url to check up on it and see if I missed something, also I do not host the site from my machine at all, it's all freewebs hosted from top to bottom and I use dial-up and my ip range is in the range from 4.0.0.0. - 4.255.255.255. 

It's quite fascinating that it's from a localhost but refer is the forums...

---

