---
title: "32 or 64?"
date: 2008-06-24
forum: Windows
---

### Post by superbenny on 2008-06-24
OK so I'm setting up my first custom build computer.

2.5ghz AMD 4600+ Dual-Core 64-bit
80gb+320gb+160gb HDDsvista 64 bit
4gb RAM
GeForce 4800 GS
onboard audio

Decent computer.
My primary system will be Ubuntu or Kubuntu 8.04 64-bit (haven't decided which one yet)

However, I do need Windows installed to run Photoshop/Illustrator CS3 and iTunes. That's it. I'll probably also need internet access to get stock images, tutorials, and buy stuff from the iTunes store.

My question:
64-bit or 32-bit Vista? I'm thinking about Home Premium or Ultimate.

thanks,
-superbenny

---

### Post by niyonk on 2008-06-24
64-bit to use the full 4 gigs
32-bit can only access 3 (i think even less):)

---

### Post by ComputerGeek31618 on 2008-06-24
32 bit is standard, and works up to 4 gigs RAM.  the only advantage to a 64bit OS is that it will run your CPU in 64 bits (possibly increasing performance), although software will still run the same.  If you're going for Vista, 32bit may be cheaper, and will be perfectly fine.  If you want Vista 64bit, fine.  Ubuntu or Kubuntu: go ahead with the x64 version, it's still free (although you can still run the x86, or 32bit version, just fine).

---

### Post by superbenny on 2008-06-24
Price isn't really a concern right now. Will there be any significant increase in performance in CS3?

---

### Post by ch_123 on 2008-06-24
Quite possibly. Alot of professional applications have 64bit versions. I would read into it though on the Adobe website or forums (if they have any). I think you might as well go ahead with Vista 64 bit anyway, as both 32bit and 64bit Vista have backwards compatibility problems (one of the major problems for 64 bit XP and Linux) so you might as well pick the best of the bad two.

---

### Post by Canis familiaris on 2008-06-24
> **superbenny said:**
> 

However, I do need Windows installed to run Photoshop/Illustrator CS3 and iTunes. That's it. I'll probably also need internet access to get stock images, tutorials, and buy stuff from the iTunes store.


I just give you a recommendation. Ignore it if you must:

[IMG]http://i168.photobucket.com/albums/u178/anurag_panda/Screenshot-1.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by Canis familiaris on 2008-06-24
Anyway to the original question, I think use 64bit version because it will utilize all your RAM.

---

### Post by superbenny on 2008-06-24
Haha is that a desktop image or VM?

Anyway, after all of your recommendation, I think I'll go with 64-bit.
Thanks Guys!

BTW, I also posted on Vistax64 about an hour before I posted here...still no responses.

Ubuntu Community FTW!

---

### Post by Canis familiaris on 2008-06-24
> **superbenny said:**
> Haha is that a desktop image or VM?

Anyway, after all of your recommendation, I think I'll go with 64-bit.
Thanks Guys!

BTW, I also posted on Vistax64 about an hour before I posted here...still no responses.

Ubuntu Community FTW!

It is Virtualbox which I have run in fullscreen in desktop 2.

---

### Post by gameryoshi600 on 2008-06-24
64 bit but I heard there isn't as much apps availible for it. Ultimate sounds awesome and Home Premium is good too. Vista rocks.

---

### Post by superbenny on 2008-06-25
never thought Id hear that on Ubuntu forums...or anywhere for that matter
although that does make me feel better about using it

---

### Post by sayakb on 2008-06-25
Go for Ultimate. If you like eyecandy, you might like DreamScene (Though you can have DreamScene un-officially with Home Premium, but the genuine one is always better!! ;)).. 64-bit Ultimate is what you should go with..

---

### Post by superbenny on 2008-06-26
> **LinuxIsInnovation said:**
> Go for Ultimate. If you like eyecandy, you might like DreamScene (Though you can have DreamScene un-officially with Home Premium, but the genuine one is always better!! ;)).. 64-bit Ultimate is what you should go with..
thats what I was leaning towards...thanks for all your help guys!

---

