---
title: "22.04 multi(3)-display amd 5100"
date: 2024-08-09
forum: Ubuntu/Debian BASED
---

### Post by dcmNindy on 2024-08-09
Lenovo P710 with three monitors on an AMD 5100

The current P710 box supports many distro's and is continuously exposed to evolving distro explorations.

So I have a Win 11 Pro as the only windows system (a daily driver) and at least 6 linux distros. Mostly top 20 of
Distrowatch; but with a few "OUT THERE..."  ALL INSTALLED SYSTEMS function with the triple monitor setup
with the exception of _Pop OS 22.04 (upgraded from 20.04)_.

The Pop OS is duplicated with two separate installations: A: installed at 20.04 ver  and another B: installed at 20.04 ver but updated 
to 22.04 ver; and herein lies the crux of my problem.

The PopOS 20.04 has been and continues to be used at that version for at least past 4 yrs as a daily driver no issues
with the triple displays. 

The PopOS 22.4 that BEGAN as a 20.04 ver was used with three monitors on an AMD 5100 for at least a year with no issues.
And then an automatic (my fault!) upgrade to 22.04 hit me!!!   POOF ! ! !  no more triple displays and the "display settings"
page doesn't even recognize a single monitor of the three (lenovo24 - asus27 - lenovo24). The "display settings" page 
does provide some settings for an unamed monitor and suitably drives the  asus at 2500x1440 and also mirrors "asus" to 
the _left_ "lenovo" and the _right _"lenovo" never wakes up.

xrandr echoes the information from the "display settings" page.  the monitor.xml file reflects the correct three monitor settings.

Any thoughts on this issue will be more than greatly appreciated...(think 78 yr old linux fart tired of ....):lolflag:

dcmNindy

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2024-08-09
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu/Debian BASED***

---

