---
title: "18.04 ZFS pool drive swap and start fresh ,but keep same pool name"
date: 2019-02-26
forum: Ubuntu/Debian BASED
---

### Post by corbind on 2019-02-26
First off, my apologizes for re-posting here.  Apparently I posted this initially in the wrong place:


[COLOR=#000000]Hey group,[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Here is my situation and what I am hoping to do.[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]I have an existing ZFS mirrored pool that is active and working fine. I have many scripts , snapshots, etc, running against that ZFS named pool. I want to now retire / physically archive away the two drives that make up the mirrored set, replace them with two new drives in a mirrored set and continue to run the zfs pool with the exact same pool name. I don't need to copy the existing data from the retired set to the new drives. In fact, I don't want to. I want to start off with a fresh, blank set of drives but under the exact same ZFS pool name so that, everything continues per normal.[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]Is this possible? So, basically, ZFS / Ubuntu should just see the same pool name that is now contains no data. [/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]Thx in Advance,[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Terry[/COLOR]

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2019-02-26
You can just export the zfs pool and stop the drives. The pool name is pretty much arbitrary, and can be anything you want it to be.

Add the new drives, create a new pool with the same name and you are ready to go.

The only hitch is you cannot have two pools with the same name on the same host.

---

