---
title: "POP!_18.04LTS and HP printer setup problem"
date: 2020-04-16
forum: Ubuntu/Debian BASED
---

### Post by jlh68 on 2020-04-16
I have a DarterPro running POP!_18.04LTS and I bought a new HP Officejet 6960 printer.  I can not get HPLIP to work.  I get it installed/setup and the wireless works fine, then two hours later the HPToolbox can not find the printer.  I have tried several versions of HPLIP and none have worked.

What makes this so frustrating is the first three HP printers I had all connected without HPLIP, the drivers were in Linux.  But now with this new one no drivers, have to us HPLIP and it does not work.

I am at wits end on this.  I ofter work on my laptop in my living room and like to send print jobs to my printer in my  den downstairs.  But now I have to take my computer to the printer and plug in a USB cable to print.  So much for buying  a network ready printer.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2020-04-16
Moved to Ubuntu/Debian BASED forum.

---

### Post by jlh68 on 2020-04-17
Why was my post moved?  I am running a System76 DarterPro and having problems with hplip and the POP!_OS.  Seems like it should be under the System76 forum page. or am I missing something here?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2020-04-17
The strap line from the System76 forum states:
> sub-forum is for technical support only for System76 hardware installed with Ubuntu. Please see here for more details.
Since you are not running Ubuntu your System76 your thread does not belong there it belongs here, what will help get replies is to bump your thread once every twelve hours to keep it in view of the volunteers here.

---

### Post by jlh68 on 2020-04-18
**What part of System76 DarterPro with POP!_OS does not fit that criteria?**   I have a System76 system and a problem with my System76 system and you say that does not fit the subfprum purpose.  So what is the purpose of the System76 subforum?

By the way if you were current with System76 you would know that POP!_OS IS SYSTEM76` OWN OPERATING SYSTEM.  and it is BASED on UBUNTU.  In my case 18.04LTS.

Thius is the first time on this forum that I disagree with what has happened.

Kicked of the subforum for having a System76 hardware/sfware problem, to me that fits the purpose ot the subforum.
If it looks like a duck, walks like a duck and quacks like a duck it is a Duck.  For all pratical purposes POP! OS is Ubuntu.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-18
Based on Ubuntu, not Ubuntu nor any of the official flavors. That's why. If you were running Ubuntu it would be fine where it was.

---

### Post by jlh68 on 2020-04-18
Here is the System76 site Sticky:

  [B]System76 forum is for support only.

    System76 forum is provided for SUPPORT questions regarding your hardware and software issues running on System 76 machines.

    Opinion posts have no place here - we provide other sub-forums for chat, notably Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat and The Cafe. [/B]

Seems like the OS is part of the software that the sticky declares can be an issue.

You guys are splitting hairs about it being solely Raw Ubuntu.  Are you trying to help people or just have an exclusive club?

I am  on my second System76 laptop and I thought that this forum might be able to help.

---

### Post by jlh68 on 2020-04-18
Originally System76 only came with just Ubuntu, but now System76 has their own Ubuntu operating system.  So in the spirit of the System76 forum, it should grow with the times and include System76's standard operating system. Otherwise why specify the hardware (System76) and not the installed OEM operating system?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2020-04-18
In post 4 I quoted exactly why your thread does not belong in the System76 forum, it is pretty much a dead forum these days anyway, it use to have people that worked at Sytem76 answer questions for there computers that run Ubuntu but they no longer come here to offer support since they created there own operating system, you are just as likely to get help here in this forum as any other, you just need to bump your thread once every twelve hours to keep it in view of the volunteers here, if you still want support in this thread then please get back on topic and no more discussion on the topic of your thread being moved, if you still want to pursue the issue of your being thread being moved then do it in the proper forum which is the Resolution centre:

[https://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=123](https://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=123)

Please be polite if you do create a thread in the Resolution Centre.

If you post one more time in this thread to discuss it being moved then  it will be closed.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2020-04-18
Pop OS support. [https://system76.com/pop/community](https://system76.com/pop/community)

---

