---
title: "20.04 LTS (Kde Neon) Confused about receiving Miracast"
date: 2022-08-08
forum: Ubuntu/Debian BASED
---

### Post by steve234 on 2022-08-08
Hi there,

**tldr; I need to receive Miracast on my Ubuntu 20.04 machine, but can't work out how.

I have a Win10 work laptop and my personal Surface Go running Win 11 / KDE Neon (Ubuntu 20.04 + Plasma 5.25 + wayland)

I need to use my personal surface device as a second screen for my work laptop (I think this is called the Surface device being a Miracast 'sink' ). However, Win10 to Win11 miracast is not working.

As my personal surface go is dual boot, I wondered whether Ubuntu would handle receiving the Miracast better than Win11? 

From my brief research this morning, I'm finding it difficult to find instructions for setting up a machine as a Miracast receiever / sink:

- I've seen many tutorials for setting up a Miracast server;
- I've seen Miracle-cast (which appears to be for transmitting Miracast, not receiving it, and may not work on Wayland); and
- I've also seen  various VNC etc methods, but I can't use that on my "locked down" Win10 PC without a long discussion with my IT colleagues.

I am mis-understanding something, but I'm not sure what.

---

### Post by QIII on 2022-08-08
KDE Neon is a separate distribution, not one of the official Ubuntu flavors.

Moved to Ubuntu/Debian BASED.

---

### Post by steve234 on 2022-08-08
I'm grateful. And apologies for posting in the wrong section. I ran 20.04LTS for quite a while on my main machine, and found this forum most helpful

---

