---
title: "USN-571-2: X.org regression"
date: 2008-01-19
forum: Announcements &amp; News
---

### Post by rss-bot on 2008-01-19
Description:
 ===========================================================  Ubuntu Security Notice USN-571-2           January 19, 2008 xorg-server regression [https://launchpad.net/bugs/183969](https://launchpad.net/bugs/183969) ===========================================================  A security issue affects the following Ubuntu releases:  Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Ubuntu 6.10 Ubuntu 7.04 Ubuntu 7.10  This advisory also applies to the corresponding versions of Kubuntu, Edubuntu, and Xubuntu.  The problem can be corrected by upgrading your system to the following package versions:  Ubuntu 6.06 LTS:   xserver-xorg-core               1:1.0.2-0ubuntu10.10  Ubuntu 6.10:   xserver-xorg-core               1:1.1.1-0ubuntu12.5  Ubuntu 7.04:   xserver-xorg-core               2:1.2.0-3ubuntu8.3  Ubuntu 7.10:   xserver-xorg-core               2:1.3.0.0.dfsg-12ubuntu8.3  After a standard system upgrade you need to restart your session to effect the necessary changes.  Details follow:  USN-571-1 fixed vulnerabilities in X.org.  The upstream fixes were incomplete, and under certain situations, applications using the MIT-SHM extension (e.g. Java, wxWidgets) would crash with BadAlloc X errors. This update fixes the problem.  We apologize for the inconvenience.  Original advisory details:   Multiple overflows were discovered in the XFree86-Misc, XInput-Misc,  TOG-CUP, EVI, and MIT-SHM extensions which did not correctly validate  function arguments.  An authenticated attacker could send specially  crafted requests and gain root privileges. (CVE-2007-5760, CVE-2007-6427,  CVE-2007-6428, CVE-2007-6429)    It was discovered that the X.org server did not use user privileges when  attempting to open security policy files.  Local attackers could exploit  this to probe for files in directories they would not normally be able  to access.  (CVE-2007-5958)    It was discovered that the PCF font handling code did not correctly  validate the size of fonts.  An authenticated attacker could load a  specially crafted font and gain additional privileges.  (CVE-2008-0006) 





[More...](http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-571-2)

---

