---
title: "USN-710-1: xine-lib vulnerabilities"
date: 2009-01-26
forum: Announcements &amp; News
---

### Post by rss-bot on 2009-01-26
Referenced CVEs: 
CVE-2008-3231, CVE-2008-5233, CVE-2008-5234, CVE-2008-5236, CVE-2008-5237, CVE-2008-5238, CVE-2008-5239, CVE-2008-5240, CVE-2008-5241, CVE-2008-5242, CVE-2008-5243, CVE-2008-5244, CVE-2008-5246, CVE-2008-5248


Description: 
=========================================================== Ubuntu Security Notice USN-710-1           January 26, 2009 xine-lib vulnerabilities CVE-2008-3231, CVE-2008-5233, CVE-2008-5234, CVE-2008-5236, CVE-2008-5237, CVE-2008-5238, CVE-2008-5239, CVE-2008-5240, CVE-2008-5241, CVE-2008-5242, CVE-2008-5243, CVE-2008-5244, CVE-2008-5246, CVE-2008-5248 ===========================================================  A security issue affects the following Ubuntu releases:  Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Ubuntu 7.10 Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Ubuntu 8.10  This advisory also applies to the corresponding versions of Kubuntu, Edubuntu, and Xubuntu.  The problem can be corrected by upgrading your system to the following package versions:  Ubuntu 6.06 LTS:   libxine-main1                   1.1.1+ubuntu2-7.10  Ubuntu 7.10:   libxine1                        1.1.7-1ubuntu1.4  Ubuntu 8.04 LTS:   libxine1                        1.1.11.1-1ubuntu3.2  Ubuntu 8.10:   libxine1                        1.1.15-0ubuntu3.1  After a standard system upgrade you need to restart applications linked against xine-lib, such as Totem-xine and Amarok, to effect the necessary changes.  Details follow:  It was discovered that xine-lib did not correctly handle certain malformed Ogg and Windows Media files. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted Ogg or Windows Media file, an attacker could cause xine-lib to crash, creating a denial of service. This issue only applied to Ubuntu 6.06 LTS, 7.10, and 8.04 LTS. (CVE-2008-3231)  It was discovered that the MNG, MOD, and Real demuxers in xine-lib did not correctly handle memory allocation failures. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted MNG, MOD, or Real file, an attacker could crash xine-lib or possibly execute arbitrary code with the privileges of the user invoking the program. This issue only applied to Ubuntu 6.06 LTS, 7.10, and 8.04 LTS. (CVE-2008-5233)  It was discovered that the QT demuxer in xine-lib did not correctly handle an invalid metadata atom size, resulting in a heap-based buffer overflow. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted MOV file, an attacker could execute arbitrary code as the user invoking the program. (CVE-2008-5234, CVE-2008-5242)  It was discovered that the Real, RealAudio, and Matroska demuxers in xine-lib did not correctly handle malformed files, resulting in heap-based buffer overflows. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted Real, RealAudio, or Matroska file, an attacker could execute arbitrary code as the user invoking the program. (CVE-2008-5236)  It was discovered that the MNG and QT demuxers in xine-lib did not correctly handle malformed files, resulting in integer overflows. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted MNG or MOV file, an attacker could execute arbitrary code as the user invoking the program. (CVE-2008-5237)  It was discovered that the Matroska, MOD, Real, and Real Audio demuxers in xine-lib did not correctly handle malformed files, resulting in integer overflows. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted Matroska, MOD, Real, or Real Audio file, an attacker could execute arbitrary code as the user invoking the program. This issue only applied to Ubuntu 6.06 LTS, 7.10, and 8.04 LTS. (CVE-2008-5238)  It was discovered that the input handlers in xine-lib did not correctly handle certain error codes, resulting in out-of-bounds reads and heap-based buffer overflows. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted file, stream, or URL, an attacker could execute arbitrary code as the user invoking the program. (CVE-2008-5239)  It was discovered that the Matroska and Real demuxers in xine-lib did not correctly handle memory allocation failures. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted Matroska or Real file, an attacker could crash xine-lib or possibly execute arbitrary code with the privileges of the user invoking the program. (CVE-2008-5240)  It was discovered that the QT demuxer in xine-lib did not correctly handle an invalid metadata atom size in a compressed MOV file, resulting in an integer underflow. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted MOV file, an attacker could an attacker could cause xine-lib to crash, creating a denial of service. (CVE-2008-5241)  It was discovered that the Real demuxer in xine-lib did not correctly handle certain malformed files. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted Real file, an attacker could could cause xine-lib to crash, creating a denial of service. (CVE-2008-5243)  It was discovered that xine-lib did not correctly handle certain malformed AAC files. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted AAC file, an attacker could could cause xine-lib to crash, creating a denial of service. This issue only applied to Ubuntu 7.10, and 8.04 LTS. (CVE-2008-5244)  It was discovered that the id3 tag handler in xine-lib did not correctly handle malformed tags, resulting in heap-based buffer overflows. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a media file containing a specially crafted id3 tag, an attacker could execute arbitrary code as the user invoking the program. This issue only applied to Ubuntu 6.06 LTS, 7.10, and 8.04 LTS. (CVE-2008-5246)  It was discovered that xine-lib did not correctly handle MP3 files with metadata consisting only of separators. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted MP3 file, an attacker could could cause xine-lib to crash, creating a denial of service. This issue only applied to Ubuntu 6.06 LTS, 7.10, and 8.04 LTS. (CVE-2008-5248)  It was discovered that the Matroska demuxer in xine-lib did not correctly handle an invalid track type. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted Matroska file, an attacker could could cause xine-lib to crash, creating a denial of service.  It was discovered that the ffmpeg video decoder in xine-lib did not correctly handle media with certain image heights, resulting in a heap-based buffer overflow. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted video file, an attacker could crash xine-lib or possibly execute arbitrary code with the privileges of the user invoking the program. This issue only applied to Ubuntu 7.10, 8.04 LTS, and 8.10.  It was discovered that the ffmpeg audio decoder in xine-lib did not correctly handle malformed media, resulting in a integer overflow. If a user or automated system were tricked into opening a specially crafted media file, an attacker could crash xine-lib or possibly execute arbitrary code with the privileges of the user invoking the program. This issue only applied to Ubuntu 8.10.





[More...](http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/USN-710-1)

---

