---
title: "USN-645-3: Firefox and xulrunner regression"
date: 2008-09-25
forum: Announcements &amp; News
---

### Post by rss-bot on 2008-09-25
Description: 
 ===========================================================  Ubuntu Security Notice USN-645-3         September 25, 2008 firefox-3.0, xulrunner-1.9 regression [https://launchpad.net/bugs/270429](https://launchpad.net/bugs/270429) ===========================================================  A security issue affects the following Ubuntu releases:  Ubuntu 8.04 LTS  This advisory also applies to the corresponding versions of Kubuntu, Edubuntu, and Xubuntu.  The problem can be corrected by upgrading your system to the following package versions:  Ubuntu 8.04 LTS:   firefox                         3.0.3+build1+nobinonly-0ubuntu0.8.04.1   xulrunner-1.9                   1.9.0.3+build1+nobinonly-0ubuntu0.8.04.1  After a standard system upgrade you need to restart Firefox and any applications that use xulrunner, such as Epiphany, to effect the necessary changes.  Details follow:  USN-645-1 fixed vulnerabilities in Firefox and xulrunner. The upstream patches introduced a regression in the saved password handling. While password data was not lost, if a user had saved any passwords with non-ASCII characters, Firefox could not access the password database. This update fixes the problem.  We apologize for the inconvenience.  Original advisory details:   Justin Schuh, Tom Cross and Peter Williams discovered errors in the  Firefox URL parsing routines. If a user were tricked into opening a  crafted hyperlink, an attacker could overflow a stack buffer and  execute arbitrary code. (CVE-2008-0016)    It was discovered that the same-origin check in Firefox could be  bypassed. If a user were tricked into opening a malicious website,  an attacker may be able to execute JavaScript in the context of a  different website. (CVE-2008-3835)    Several problems were discovered in the JavaScript engine. This  could allow an attacker to execute scripts from page content with  chrome privileges. (CVE-2008-3836)    Paul Nickerson discovered Firefox did not properly process mouse  click events. If a user were tricked into opening a malicious web  page, an attacker could move the content window, which could  potentially be used to force a user to perform unintended drag and  drop operations. (CVE-2008-3837)    Several problems were discovered in the browser engine. This could  allow an attacker to execute code with chrome privileges.  (CVE-2008-4058, CVE-2008-4059, CVE-2008-4060)    Drew Yao, David Maciejak and other Mozilla developers found several  problems in the browser engine of Firefox. If a user were tricked  into opening a malicious web page, an attacker could cause a denial  of service or possibly execute arbitrary code with the privileges  of the user invoking the program. (CVE-2008-4061, CVE-2008-4062,  CVE-2008-4063, CVE-2008-4064)    Dave Reed discovered a flaw in the JavaScript parsing code when  processing certain BOM characters. An attacker could exploit this  to bypass script filters and perform cross-site scripting attacks.  (CVE-2008-4065)    Gareth Heyes discovered a flaw in the HTML parser of Firefox. If a  user were tricked into opening a malicious web page, an attacker  could bypass script filtering and perform cross-site scripting  attacks. (CVE-2008-4066)    Boris Zbarsky and Georgi Guninski independently discovered flaws in  the resource: protocol. An attacker could exploit this to perform  directory traversal, read information about the system, and prompt  the user to save information in a file. (CVE-2008-4067,  CVE-2008-4068)    Billy Hoffman discovered a problem in the XBM decoder. If a user were  tricked into opening a malicious web page or XBM file, an attacker  may be able to cause a denial of service via application crash.  (CVE-2008-4069) 





[More...](http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-645-3)

---

