---
title: ".:How To low bandwidth Avatats:. help Ubuntu with bandwidth."
date: 2006-01-18
forum: Forum Feedback &amp; Help
---

### Post by Omnios on 2006-01-18
The fact that the Ubuntu forum now has a huge user base is a good thing and the fact we have avatars are greate. However there are ways that we can help the Ubuntu forums with dandwidth usage with are avatars. Using compression allows for smaller avatar sizes that still look good on the forum and if 60k members compressed there avatars I think this will make a huge impact in bandwidth usage. The less bandwidth we use the more that can be done with the forums. 

 Now as to compressing your avatar you can open it in Gimp then file save as a jpg and compress it I did 4 tryes of my avatar.
 
 My starting was a 10.4k .png
 1=.bmp normal             =  21.1K 
 2=.png compressed 9    = 13.1K 
 3=.gif   normal             =   4.1K 
 4=.jpg 80 quality          =   3.9K
 4=.jpg 60 quality          =   3.0K
 5=.jpg 30 quality          =    2.0K This is about the lowest that looked ok but that may count on the particular pics begginning quality.

 Also you can fool around with advanced options ans use jpg preview to see the pic quality as you compress it.

 As soon as I can log in a 2.5k version of my avatar is going up to do my part in helping the forum.

 Supporters of this please post and any idea's or suggestions welcome.

---

### Post by Omnios on 2006-01-18
ALso found out you can compress a .png, save and open it then save it as a smaller gif with transparecies intact.

 K started with a 10k png and saved it to .gif then I opened the gif and saed it as png that shaved 1k off to 3.9k lol.

---

### Post by xequence on 2006-01-19
Most of the time I have to make my avatar smaller in size just to get it under the limit... I cant go any more =P It'll look horrible.

I lucked out with this avatar though. It compressed to 12KB with PNG ;)

---

### Post by az on 2006-01-19
Less is more....

---

### Post by xmastree on 2006-01-19
12k? Bandwidth hog! :-)

I just converted mine from a 12k png to a 1.7k jpg...

[QUOTE=xequence]I cant go any more =P It'll look horrible.[/QUOTE]
I never could resist a challenge:

[ATTACH]5441[/ATTACH]
gif, 7.4k :p 

But why stop there?
[ATTACH]5442[/ATTACH]
95% jpg, 4.1k :p :p

---

### Post by az on 2006-01-19
[QUOTE=xmastree]12k? Bandwidth hog! :-)

I just converted mine from a 12k png to a 1.7k jpg...


I never could resist a challenge:

[ATTACH]5441[/ATTACH]
gif, 7.4k :p 

But why stop there?
[ATTACH]5442[/ATTACH]
95% jpg, 4.1k :p :p[/QUOTE]
1.6k now....

Heh heh....

Edit -   Improved...

---

### Post by xmastree on 2006-01-19
1.6k, but definately showing the signs of severe jpegyness, especially around the nose and eyes.

If we no longer care about image quality...

5% jpg (any lower and the face changed colour completely)

566 bytes!

[ATTACH]5457[/ATTACH]

:p :p :p 

Rather ugly, although it's an interesting experiment. :-k 

Disclaimer: No monkeys were harmed during the making of these images [-X

---

### Post by akurashy on 2006-01-19
I think it's a waste of time. For example.. avatars won't help really.. look at the massive gallery ubuntuforums even if you put little kb on it it won't help out a bit

---

### Post by chaumurky on 2006-01-20
It would be interesting to see some stats.

---

### Post by xmastree on 2006-01-20
Now **that's** a cool avatar! LOL

---

### Post by chaumurky on 2006-01-20
:-)

---

