---
title: "1-2-3.... cups of Ubuntu"
date: 2005-06-03
forum: Forum Feedback &amp; Help
---

### Post by xristos on 2005-06-03
I would like to ask what is the policy of naming someone 1 or 2 or 3 .......cups of Ubuntu or Dipped in Ubuntu etc .

---

### Post by 23meg on 2005-06-03
number of posts :)

---

### Post by xristos on 2005-06-03
[QUOTE=23meg]number of posts :)[/QUOTE]
 Coulg you be more specific ?
Like the number of posts needed to be "Dipped in Ubuntu" or "Village Brew Master" ?

---

### Post by Havoc on 2005-06-03
Oxi kai koulouvaxata re filarakiiiiiii.....


Anyways, such information should be added to the FAQ.I've seen this question quite alot.I guess I didn't help anybody by stating the obvious, now, did I?  ](*,)

---

### Post by 23meg on 2005-06-03
i think village brew master = 400
i don't know the others..

---

### Post by N'Jal on 2005-06-03
>9 = Newbie
< 9 > 15 = dipped (i think)
< 15 > 50 = 1 cup
< 50 > 100 = 5 cups
< 100 > 200 = way too much ubuntu

I think this is correct

---

### Post by pdk001 on 2005-06-03
what's the "vip" instead?

---

### Post by 23meg on 2005-06-03
[QUOTE=N'Jal]>9 = Newbie
< 9 > 15 = dipped (i think)

I think this is correct[/QUOTE]

no, dipped is much more. "vip" might be developers who show up in the forums. actually you should care less about all this hierarchy; it's just some standard forum features that the admins have to put in place while setting the whole thing up.

---

### Post by benplaut on 2005-06-03
[QUOTE=23meg]no, dipped is much more. "vip" might be developers who show up in the forums. actually you should care less about all this hierarchy; it's just some standard forum features that the admins have to put in place while setting the whole thing up.[/QUOTE]

yeah...

is the next level for me at 250? i want some of that yellow writing  :twisted:

---

### Post by kassetra on 2005-06-03
[QUOTE=benplaut]yeah...

is the next level for me at 250? i want some of that yellow writing  :twisted:[/QUOTE]

You could always donate money to the forums too... Then you get "yellow writing" and your name turns blue.  heh.  ;)

Ok, so I'll look into possibly posting our secret ranking system.  ;)

---

### Post by 23meg on 2005-06-03
it might be a better idea not to post it, to have less of an overall awareness of these titles, so that people won't push to increase their post count just to attain certain titles.

---

### Post by kassetra on 2005-06-03
[QUOTE=23meg]it might be a better idea not to post it, to have less of an overall awareness of these titles, so that people won't push to increase their post count just to attain certain titles.[/QUOTE]

LOL I said I would look into it... but it's pretty low on my to do list.

---

### Post by benplaut on 2005-06-03
[QUOTE=kassetra]You could always donate money to the forums too... Then you get "yellow writing" and your name turns blue.  heh.  ;)

Ok, so I'll look into possibly posting our secret ranking system.  ;)[/QUOTE]

i am...

i'm supposed to be getting $20 from a guy on Gear Live forums for making him a sig, but he's on vacation right now  :roll: 

parents don't like me using PayPal, unless i already have a credit in the account  :?

---

### Post by kassetra on 2005-06-03
[QUOTE=benplaut]i am...

i'm supposed to be getting $20 from a guy on Gear Live forums for making him a sig, but he's on vacation right now  :roll: 

parents don't like me using PayPal, unless i already have a credit in the account  :?[/QUOTE]

I was just being facetious.  :)  Donating is good, but don't do anything your parents don't want you to do!

---

### Post by benplaut on 2005-06-03
[QUOTE=kassetra]I was just being facetious.  :)  Donating is good, but don't do anything your parents don't want you to do![/QUOTE]

they don't want me to run linux  :-#

---

### Post by crane on 2005-06-03
I find the little tags kind of interesting. It's kind of a bonus for joinung in! :)

---

### Post by crane on 2005-06-03
[QUOTE=benplaut]they don't want me to run linux  :-#[/QUOTE]


Thats because Linux is evil right :)  :^o

---

### Post by pdk001 on 2005-06-04
[QUOTE=crane]Thats because Linux is evil right :)  :^o[/QUOTE]
what's the forum tonator? are you owner of this server?

---

### Post by kassetra on 2005-06-04
[QUOTE=pdk001]what's the forum tonator? are you owner of this server?[/QUOTE]

Forum Donators are the people that very generously donate to help pay for our servers/bandwidth.

The owner of this server is ubuntu-geek.
ubuntu-geek, jdong, and I are the forum administrators.  :)

---

### Post by kvidell on 2005-06-04
Linux evil? Bah.
I almost got suspended from my highschool for bringing my Debian powered laptop in.

The tech teacher said I had brought "Tools meant obviously for being malicious" (Hacking. because, in his words, "Only hackers run linux on anything.") on to campus.

That was fun.

I think he was just jealous beacuse it's GPU had more ram than most of the computers in one of his labs.
- Kev

---

### Post by weekend warrior on 2005-06-04
> Originally Posted by **benplaut** 
they don't want me to run linux Then be a rebel with a cause  :twisted:  ;-)   BTW how is the school Linux project going? 


newbie brew - 1 cup of ubuntu - 2 cups - 5 cups - way too much ubuntu - dipped in ubuntu - has a caffeine drip - 100% ubuntu...
after that things like - walking coffee mugs and master roasters....

but yeah at the end of the day it's pretty secondary. I pay more attention to what someone writes than their status.

---

### Post by TravisNewman on 2005-06-04
master roasters are moderators, super master roasters are super mods, ultimate coffee grinders are administrators, VIPs are appointed by the mod team for being an incredible help on the forum.

---

### Post by benplaut on 2005-06-04
[QUOTE=weekend warrior]Then be a rebel with a cause  :twisted:  ;-)   BTW how is the school Linux project going? 


newbie brew - 1 cup of ubuntu - 2 cups - 5 cups - way too much ubuntu - dipped in ubuntu - has a caffeine drip - 100% ubuntu...
after that things like - walking coffee mugs and master roasters....

but yeah at the end of the day it's pretty secondary. I pay more attention to what someone writes than their status.[/QUOTE]

well, school just ended, and my "partner" decided to play around with UBD on the ONLY WORKING SYTEM WE HAD, so... we had nothing to show for all our work.

i managed to fake a working system to show the teacher using PHLAK live CD with "desktop=sneaky" option... so he was satisfied (that's with XPde, albeit an older, win9x edition)

---

