---
title: "Possible to use CSS instead of JS for menus?"
date: 2007-06-12
forum: Forum Feedback &amp; Help
---

### Post by yabbadabbadont on 2007-06-12
I've noticed that the "Products, Support, Community, Partners, News" menus at the top of each page of the forums work even when JavaScript is disabled.  I assume they use CSS instead.  Would it be feasible to also use CSS for the "User CP", "Search", and "Quick Links" menus when Javascript is disabled in the browser?  It isn't really a big deal, but since part of every page is already doing it, I thought that I would ask.


I probably wouldn't have noticed at all except that I've got all active content disabled in my browser in order to speed up surfing with my new, but much slower, DSL connection.  I had to downgrade my service from 6mb to 768kb as a cost cutting measure this week.  :(

---

### Post by PriceChild on 2007-06-12
The top thing is to do with the theme, and never changes.

However the next one with UserCP on it etc. is dynamically generated by vBulletin, and will change depending on whether you are logged in, whether you have higher permissions etc. and so I can imagine it being a huge job to port it all over...  if I'm right :)

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2007-06-12
> **yabbadabbadont said:**
> I've noticed that the "Products, Support, Community, Partners, News" ...
These are ubuntu websites (and UF cannot do anything about them).
The proper way to address that would probably be to file a bug here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website/]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website/")

---

