---
title: "&quot;Absolute Beginner Talk&quot; and commands"
date: 2009-06-19
forum: Forum Feedback &amp; Help
---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-19
Is it wrong to give instructions using commands in the "Absolute Beginner Talk" forum, instead of giving directions through the graphical interface?

When I notice the user has just a few posts I include something like "open 'Applications >> Accessories >> Terminal' and paste the following command, then hit enter", to minimize user confusion.

---

### Post by Idefix82 on 2009-06-19
I think that giving help using the terminal but explaining how to open the terminal is the best way to give instructions. Not only is it much easier for you, it will get the newbie used to the terminal in a gentle way since they can't do anything wrong and don't have to understand everything they are typing.

The only additional suggestion I have is telling them "type this so that this and that happens", so they get used to wondering what the respective commands do.

---

### Post by SuperSonic4 on 2009-06-19
I think the command line is a much more efficient way to get commands across - What is clearer: ```
sudo apt-get install vlc
``` or Open synaptic, search for *vlc*, click mark to install and then apply

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-06-19
Either way is good IMO and if you like you may choose to do both. :)

---

### Post by Bodsda on 2009-06-19
I almost always choose to give them commands because thats what I use. I run fluxbox so I cant remember where everything is in the menus or what new name they were given this release etc. Terminal commands are pretty generic.

---

### Post by s.fox on 2009-06-19
I personally think giving them a command to run is fine,  providing an explanation of what it does is given 

-Ash R

---

### Post by Viva on 2009-06-19
> **SuperSonic4 said:**
> I think the command line is a much more efficient way to get commands across - What is clearer: ```
sudo apt-get install vlc
``` or Open synaptic, search for *vlc*, click mark to install and then apply

[apt:vlc]("apt:vlc") is the easiest

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-19
> **Viva said:**
> [apt:vlc]("apt:vlc") is the easiest

Yep, I'm using apt url a lot recently, but I usually don't explain what a command does. I will try to do that more often.

---

### Post by Viva on 2009-06-19
> **lovinglinux said:**
> Yep, I'm using apt url a lot recently, but I usually don't explain what a command does. I will try to do that more often.

I want to use it too, I/m just not sure how secure it is.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-19
> **overdrank said:**
> Either way is good IMO and if you like you may choose to do both. :)

Yep, that would be nice.

Sometimes I don't give commands, just directions through the gui. Depends on the task and my mood :)

---

### Post by jenkinbr on 2009-06-19
I tend to post commands, with the line "Open a terminal (Applications >> Accessories >> Terminal)

I like this method better, because if something goes wrong, I can ask the user to post the output generated by the command to get more insite to the problem then I would if the user tryed explaining what they saw when the command was run.

---

### Post by drubin on 2009-06-21
> **Viva said:**
> [apt:vlc]("apt:vlc") is the easiest

Personally I find apt url to be a bit windowsy. Also if poeple are posting questions and they require commands to do them I would much rather they learn what the commands do rather then just clicking on links.

But then again that is just me.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2009-06-21
You can't force anyone to give instructions in a particular way.

I do think it is a good idea to give beginners GUI instructions for common tasks. Otherwise, they begin to think the terminal is the *only* way to do things.

Terminal instructions are really good for troubleshooting problems, though.

---

### Post by Viva on 2009-06-21
> **drubin said:**
> Personally I find apt url to be a bit windowsy. Also if poeple are posting questions and they require commands to do them I would much rather they learn what the commands do rather then just clicking on links.

But then again that is just me.

Oh I definitely agree. As I said in the first page, I'm still unsure of how secure it is.

---

### Post by andrew-sayers on 2009-06-24
I ought to chime in here, since I've made a similar thread [elsewhere]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195975").

I don't see any problem with getting people to use commands, so long as it's explained in sufficient detail.  Actually, commands have a bit of an advantage in that way - if all instructions boil down to "copy this text and paste it into a terminal", then users only ever have to do one bit of learning.  Admittedly it's a big bit of learning for a newbie, but I propose to make that my problem, so you should feel free to just take advantage of me ;)

About apt:foo links - I was as hinky about them as anyone at first, but I've come to think it's actually safer, because there's less chance of user error.  They're starting to pop up everywhere now (they've been enabled in the wiki for a while), so avoiding them won't stop users from getting trained into clicking on them.

    - Andrew

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-24
Now I'm trying to make my life easier and provide useful information at the same time.

I'm using the [BBCode](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/128) extension for Firefox, which allows to create custom bbcode tags or add additional info to a post without typing it all the time. These are examples of some of my custom tags:

...in the terminal [see footnote]

> [color=#CC0000]**How to run commands in a Terminal: **[/color]Open "Applications >> Accessories >> Terminal", then type or paste the code (CTRL+SHIFT+V) and hit *Enter*. You might be prompted to enter your password. You cannot see it while you type, but it is there. Then just hit *Enter* again to run the command. Please do not run commands without knowing what they do. If you do not understand what a command does, ask for explanations.

...install [gufw](apt:gufw) [apt-get] 

> [color=#CC0000]**Note:**[/color] when you see [apt-get] after a link on my posts it means that you just need to click it to install the software. This is basically an easy way to perform an installation from the [repositories](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_repository)  without running the command on a terminal. This is the same as running the command *sudo apt-get install* followed by the name of the program.


...[unlock keyring password](http://www.google.com/search?q=unlock keyring password+site:ubuntuforums.org&hl=en&sourceid=mozilla-search&num=20&start=0&start=0) [site:ubuntuforums.org]  > [color=#CC0000]**Note:**[/color] when you see [site:ubuntuforums.org] after a link on my posts it means that I am using Google site search feature. This feature allow us to get search results only from a specific site, in this case Ubuntu Forums, by adding the string *site:ubuntuforums.org* after the keywords. This method is much better than the forum search feature, since it gives you more precise results. I usually add this to my posts when a subject is very common and already answered several times.


What do you think about them?

If you are interested in the codes, they are attached. You need to add them to the custom tags, through the "Settings" context menu of BBCode.

Then you just need to highlight the text in the post and select the custom tag from the BBCode extension context menu. It adds the link, the [placeholder] and the quoted notes automatically.

---

### Post by jenkinbr on 2009-06-24
> **lovinglinux said:**
> Now I'm trying to make my life easier and provide useful information at the same time.

I'm using the [BBCode](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/128) extension for Firefox, which allows to create custom bbcode tags or add additional info to a post without typing it all the time. These are examples of some of my custom tags:

...in the terminal [see footnote]



...install [gufw](apt:gufw) [apt-get] 




...[unlock keyring password](http://www.google.com/search?q=unlock keyring password+site:ubuntuforums.org&hl=en&sourceid=mozilla-search&num=20&start=0&start=0) [site:ubuntuforums.org]  


What do you think about them?

If you are interested in the codes, they are attached. You need to add them to the custom tags, through the "Settings" context menu of BBCode.

Then you just need to highlight the text in the post and select the custom tag from the BBCode extension context menu. It adds the link, the [placeholder] and the quoted notes automatically.
Wow - Thanks for the link to the awesome Firefox plugin!

---

### Post by nmaster on 2009-06-24
When I was a total noob i actually prefered commands.  it helped me learn about linux and got me more comfortable with CLI.

---

### Post by andrew-sayers on 2009-06-24
Custom BBCode strikes me as an ingenious, fairly good solution to the problem.  But I'm afraid it will still fall foul of the problems I outlined in the ["HOWTO: following instructions"](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195975) thread.

Specifically, although custom BBCode is as readable as a forum thread, it's not as commentable or as writable.  If someone replies to one of your guides saying "hey, I love the notes, but could you cut the theory and just tell me what to do?", then you can only alter your copy of the custom BBCodes.  Everyone else that's downloaded a copy will be stuck using the old version until they manually update, and every tutorial using the old code would have to be modified by hand.

How would you feel about putting the same (or similar) text in a sticky HOWTO thread, and linking to it from individual posts?

	- Andrew

---

### Post by user_linux08 on 2009-06-24
Some of you "command line" geeks will have to forgive me for pointing it out to you. 
You have to remember that one of the main objectives of Linux OS is to convince as many user of Windows and Apple to switch to Linux and stay there. One of the reasons for the dominance of Windows (And Apple) worldwide is because of their GUI and ease of use by novice users.

Many of use the Windowz users, wish to use our systems as tools in our daily personal and businesses. 

By expecting these users to learn archaic command lines (I know, I know, to you is no big deal), you are making Linux comparable to DOS days, instead of point-n-click. 

All we want is a system which will enable us to utilize its resources with as little learning curve as possible and as fast as possible for us to get from point A to point B.

Please spare the "if you don't like it, stay with your Windoes". That just defeats the whole purpose of converting as many users to Linux (and Ubuntu in particular) as possible.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-24
> **andrew-sayers said:**
> How would you feel about putting the same (or similar) text in a sticky HOWTO thread, and linking to it from individual posts?

For small pieces of information, I still prefer to add the text to the post itself, keeping it compartmentalized, more relevant and easy to read. But if the subject is extensive, then I create a How-To and provide the link. 

I don't think stickies are the solution. There are already the [Ubuntu Help](https://help.ubuntu.com/) and [Community Docs](https://help.ubuntu.com/community). I believe that the primary objective of the stickies are to get the attention of the users to important matters. But how many people read them? If you need to link to the sticky as I often need, then it would be better to link to a Community Documentation page. Besides, how many stickies you would need to cover all important subjects?

Let's face it, there are a lot of lazy people out there, that don't read stickies, tutorials or manuals and don't even bother to do a simple search before posting. Check how many threads are created each day that have been already answered several times. I have a few on the top of my list, like the "unlock keyring password". I understand that the Ubuntu forum is friendly place and nobody answers with things like "use the freaking Google for God sake", but sometimes I feel the urge to do it, because the number of recurring questions is a little bit insane.

I believe that this will never change, so I use BBCode with those informations to make my life easier while I'm helping others and to keep my OCPD under control :)

I also use a modified version of [QuoteZilla](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/8856) extension that saves an entire quote in the forum format like this:

> **mcduck said:**
> 
Changing/removing the keyring password is quite easy to do (no need to remove the current keyring or mess with user accounts):

1. open the keyring manager (Applications/Accessories/Passwords and Encryption Keys)

2. Go to Edit/Preferences

3. On the Password Keyrings-tab select the "login"-keyring & click "Change Unlock Password"

Now you can change the keyring password. If you use normal login set the password to same as your login password is to unlock the keyring automatically. If you use automatic login leave the new password fields empty to remove the keyring password.

I just need to click a button and paste. See image attached.

Unfortunately, this extension is note stable and have some things that bother me, like no button on the toolbar for easy access and no scrolling if you have several quotes.

If you are interested, I have attached the extension file I have modified to satisfy the forum quoting format. Unfortunately, this modified version requires to manually edit the source field when using the "QuoteZilla this" feature. This feature allows to select a post and add it automatically to the QuoteZilla database, but you have to manually remove the link and leave only the post id. Additionally, you need to enter the title and author manually. It's not a lot of trouble, because you only need to do this once per quote. To use the quote is pretty simple. Click a button and paste. If I had to search the original thread, quote it and copy to new post would take much longer and it is a boring repetitive task.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-24
> **user_linux08 said:**
> All we want is a system which will enable us to utilize its resources with as little learning curve as possible and as fast as possible for us to get from point A to point B.

I understand your point of view, but you need to see the other side. As I said in the [post above](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7511464&postcount=21), lot's of people don't even bother to read instructions properly or to do a simple search. Actually, it's worse than that. I have notice in the last few days, a couple of replies on a few threads I'm subscribing, where some users don't even bother to read the replies and give a "solution" or make a comment that has already been addressed and discarded in previous posts. Sometimes these suggestions are not even related to the OP question. For example the OP asks how to install a RC version of a program, because the repositories only have the Beta version and someone replies that the Beta version is in the repositories. Go figure.

Anyways, the fact is that there are questions asked over and over, sometimes less than a day after another thread with the exact same question has been posted. So, answering all those questions is time consuming, even if we just provide a link to another thread. I can simply ignore posts with recurring questions, but since I know how to solve the problem, I think it would be selfish not to reply. The problem is that I don't have time or strength to reply to so many posts, so I have to be selective and make the process as easier as possible for me, without compromising the understandability of my explanations. So if I have the option to give a command or go through the gui route, I prefer to give the command. 

Giving instructions through the gui is a lot more time consuming. Sometimes It's far more simple and fast to give a command than search for a link and it is also faster to run a command than going through all button clicks. You just don't realize that, because you are not familiar with command-line yet. I had the same line of thinking when I switched to Linux (less than a year ago) but once you get acquainted to the command-line you don't go back.

> **user_linux08 said:**
> You have to remember that one of the main objectives of Linux OS is to convince as many user of Windows and Apple to switch to Linux and stay there.

> **user_linux08 said:**
> By expecting these users to learn archaic command lines (I know, I know, to you is no big deal), you are making Linux comparable to DOS days, instead of point-n-click.

Don't agree with these statements, but that is not the issue of this thread. So please, let's keep on topic.

---

### Post by jenkinbr on 2009-06-24
> **user_linux08 said:**
> Some of you "command line" geeks will have to forgive me for pointing it out to you. 
You have to remember that one of the main objectives of Linux OS is to convince as many user of Windows and Apple to switch to Linux and stay there. One of the reasons for the dominance of Windows (And Apple) worldwide is because of their GUI and ease of use by novice users.

Many of use the Windowz users, wish to use our systems as tools in our daily personal and businesses. 

By expecting these users to learn archaic command lines (I know, I know, to you is no big deal), you are making Linux comparable to DOS days, instead of point-n-click. 

All we want is a system which will enable us to utilize its resources with as little learning curve as possible and as fast as possible for us to get from point A to point B.

Please spare the "if you don't like it, stay with your Windoes". That just defeats the whole purpose of converting as many users to Linux (and Ubuntu in particular) as possible.

I'm sorry, but I disagree with your statement that one of the main objectives is to "win users to Linux". It's not about "Winning people over to Linux," it's about letting them know that there is a *free*, alternative operating system that will run on almost all computers.

Regarding command lines: I would never choose to call the command line 'archaic' as you do. Sure, in the days of the GUI, many things can be done graphically using point 'n' click, but that should never mean that the command line is to be left out. Is not most graphical applications merely a front-end to various command-line apps? Take synaptic package manager for example - It is a graphical front-end to the apt package management system. With it, you can update and upgrade the system, as well as install new packages, the same things you can do with the apt tools.

One thing to note is that it is a whole lot easier to tell a user to open a terminal window and run the command '***sudo apt-get install <whatever>***' than it is to tell them to go to system > Admin > Synaptic Package Manager, then enter your password, then click 'Search' then enter in <whatever> then click search, then find the package called <whatever> then to click the little white box and click "mark for installation" then click 'OK' to any suggested packages that want to install, then to click on "Apply Changes".

Which is easier - One simple line of code, or one big paragraph.

If a user wants to know how to do something graphically, then by all means, I will do my best to help them, but If they want their problem solved right here and now, the command line is often the better option, because it is quicker to type out into a post, and in being quicker to type, we are able to help others with their issues as well.

---

### Post by andrew-sayers on 2009-06-24
How about this for a point-and-click command-line solution:

1. select the text in a <code> block
2. right-click
3. click "run in a terminal"

It should be pretty easy to write a Firefox plugin to do that.

	- Andrew

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-24
> **andrew-sayers said:**
> How about this for a point-and-click command-line solution:

1. select the text in a <code> block
2. right-click
3. click "run in a terminal"

It should be pretty easy to write a Firefox plugin to do that.

	- Andrew

No need to create one, [TerminalRun](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/9738) do that ;)

---

### Post by andrew-sayers on 2009-06-24
A quick diary of Andrew's thought processes:

There *must* be something like this already, I'll go check addons.mozilla.org...

There is there is!  I can't wait to tell everyone!

<click> <click>

Aww....

Anyway, I'm having a poke about with it, and I'll e-mail the author to see if he's interested in patches.  Is there anything you'd like to see before you'd be willing to recommend it in your guides?

	- Andrew

---

### Post by jenkinbr on 2009-06-24
> **lovinglinux said:**
> No need to create one, [TerminalRun](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/9738) do that ;)
That would be the second addon i've found in this thread that could prove to be useful.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-24
> **jenkinbr said:**
> That would be the second addon i've found in this thread that could prove to be useful.

:popcorn:

What about [this one](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/10333)? 

I know, don't push it :)

---

### Post by andrew-sayers on 2009-07-12
> **lovinglinux said:**
> No need to create one, [TerminalRun]("https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/9738") do that ;)

As promised, I e-mailed the author with patches, and he turns out to be a really nice guy.  We've put together a nice new version that IMHO makes the terminal easy for even the most ardent textophobes:

[ATTACH]120803[/ATTACH]

I'm off to hassle the cafe about this now, but we'd really appreciate any feedback you've got.

	- Andrew

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-07-12
> **andrew-sayers said:**
> As promised, I e-mailed the author with patches, and he turns out to be a really nice guy.  We've put together a nice new version that IMHO makes the terminal easy for even the most ardent textophobes:

[ATTACH]120803[/ATTACH]

I'm off to hassle the cafe about this now, but we'd really appreciate any feedback you've got.

	- Andrew

Wow. That's a really nice improvement. How can I get it?

EDIT: it wasn't updating because it's experimental. I guess I need to reinstall to get the new version.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-07-12
> **andrew-sayers said:**
> As promised, I e-mailed the author with patches, and he turns out to be a really nice guy.  We've put together a nice new version that IMHO makes the terminal easy for even the most ardent textophobes:

[ATTACH]120803[/ATTACH]

I'm off to hassle the cafe about this now, but we'd really appreciate any feedback you've got.

	- Andrew

[COLOR="Red"][SIZE="7"]SUPERB
[/SIZE][/COLOR]

Really freaking good. You can even save it as shell script :)

This is a must have for anyone using Ubuntu.

---

