---
title: "12.04 &amp; these forum spell check"
date: 2012-05-30
forum: Forum Feedback &amp; Help
---

### Post by bob brazie on 2012-05-30
Since the new look at these forums there is no spell check when typing anymore. I have check spellong selected at the right click menu.

And I do spelll things wrongh and nothing.

Am I missing something?

Thanks in advance. Bob.

---

### Post by fleamour on 2012-05-30
Both Firefox & Chrome can be configured to have browser side inline spell checking.  Could your configuration of somehow changed?  I am not aware of a forum side spell check.

Regards

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2012-05-30
Right click in a message typing box and you will see it.

And yes in Firefox check spelling is checked.

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-05-30
*Thread moved to **Forum Feedback & Help**.*


404

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2012-05-30
Sorry I posted in the wrong place.

Bob.

---

### Post by qamelian on 2012-05-30
Spell checking works fine here in ff12 on Ubuntu 12.04. If I type something wrong, it underlines in red. As far as I know, all spell-checking is done by your browser not by the forum, so the new forum theme would have nothing to do with it.

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2012-05-30
Not the case here. FF12 & 12.04. These forums are the only place that the spell checking is not working.

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-05-30
I am also using FF12 in both Ubuntu 12.04 (and currently Windows XP) and spell checking works fine for me...


404

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2012-05-30
Not sure what is going on then. Spell check is turned on in FF12(checked) in the advanced tab.

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-05-30
> **bob brazie said:**
> Not sure what is going on then. Spell check is turned on in FF12(checked) in the advanced tab.

If you right click in a field when creating a post, is spell check enabled there and a suitable dictionary chosen?


404

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-05-30
I dunno whits tha mattaWith dis ting <- Didn't work for me either.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2012-05-30
Just tried out the spell check in FF12 and FF15 and it works on both.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-05-31
Check your language settings in FF, there was a problem with spell-check not working properly if your language isn't set correctly..

---

### Post by Elfy on 2012-05-31
Wasn't working here - language in FF was not set to the system language - still set to US in F/F. Added GB and all is fine.

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-05-31
Still nothing FF-12. 
No add-ons running. 
Tried the language settings from elfy. 
Looked @ jerrys thread, no go.
I logged into Gmail and it didn't work either. 
So it's not just UF related for me. ;)

Chromium works just fine. :p

I'll mess around later tonight when I have time.

One of the great benefits of Linux (terminal) is, it's made me a better speller. :p

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2012-05-31
Thanks and sorry for the cross post. Just that I was getting answers. A simple reminder of edict would have been enough. <g>

Something you said did the trick. I wish you would have asked the questions in the beginning.

Thanks, Bob.

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-06-01
> **bob brazie said:**
> 
Something you said did the trick. I wish you would have asked the questions in the beginning.

Thanks, Bob.

What's the trick, install chromium. :p
Still no go here.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-06-01
I'm posting this from Firefox 13, and spell check doesn't work for me either, where it does in Chromium.

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2012-06-01
No, apparently when FF was last upgraded the spell checker did not remember what languages to use as the default spell check so none were ticked.

Right click in the message area you are typing in here and make sure that "spell checking" is ticked and also one languages is picked and that should do it! <g>

That easy I guess.

Bob.

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-06-01
> **bob brazie said:**
> 
Right click in the message area you are typing in here and make sure that "spell checking" is ticked and also one languages is picked and that should do it! <g>

That easy I guess.

Bob.

:oops: works now.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2012-06-01
such is life @)

---

