---
title: "12.04 - dumb question - how do I get a newline in a forum post?"
date: 2013-04-20
forum: Forum Feedback &amp; Help
---

### Post by squakie on 2013-04-20
Just noticed - my Windows 8 via IE allows me to just press enter as normal to get a newline in creating a forum post, however using xubuntu 12.04 there doesn't seem to be a newline.  I know it's got to be something simple, and probably some setting I haven't done correctly.  Can you help a dumb guy out?  Thanks!

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2013-04-20
Thread moved to forum **feedback and help**.

Can't you hit enter in xubuntu as well ?

Maybe a forum bug ? it's not affecting me though.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-04-20
I may have it backwards!  It appears it's IE on Win 8 that isn't generating the cr/lf - like it should right here - this should start a new paragraph but doesn't.  so......now I've probably been asking in the wrong place.  Sorry!

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2013-04-21
This comes up occasionally, and continues to baffle us - or at least me! As you can see, most people have no trouble adding newlines, but a very few do. So far, none of those who have mentioned this problem have come back to give us feedback so it's been difficult to investigate this. But you have given a clue - so thanks for that.

Last time this came up I did a google search for this problem in vbulletin and there was one hit describing this where the poster was using a particular version of IE in a forum running VB. That poster solved it by switching from WYSIWYG to Source Mode in the advanced editor. You can do that with the blue [size=1]A[/size]/A icon top left of the advanced editor toolbar. Could you try that for us? Try test posts using both WYSISWYG and source mode, and let us know which version of IE you are using.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-04-21
let's give this a try and see....


YEP!!!!! - I now have cr/lf!!!!


Thanks!

I don't know if that helps you isolate anything or not, but it sure seems to work!

Internet Explorer  10.0.9200.16540

Running via taskbar on desktop in Windows 8 (I hate those tiles so I don't access the net via the tiles).

Hope that helps in some small way.

Again, THANKS!!

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-04-21
This is a test without it toggled.....nope - no cr/lf.  So, it appears to be that mode with the version of Internet Explorer and Windows 8 (I think it's just something like home premium - it's not "pro" or whatever they would call it now).

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2013-04-21
Thanks squakie. That'll be a great help.

Another question. Did your test posts come from a phone, tablet, laptop or desktop ?

That may or may be not a factor but it would be useful to know.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2013-04-22
> **squakie said:**
> let's give this a try and see....


YEP!!!!! - I now have cr/lf!!!!


Thanks!

I don't know if that helps you isolate anything or not, but it sure seems to work!

Internet Explorer  10.0.9200.16540

> **squakie said:**
> This is a test without it toggled.....nope - no cr/lf.

@squakie, thanks. So to be absolutely clear, using Internet Explorer 10 with the message editor in WYSIWYG mode prevents you from adding newlines? We'll bear that in mind next time sometime brings this up. To be honest, I'm not sure there's anything we can do at this end except advise people posting from Windows to use another browser, or to use source mode in the editor if they are unable to use another browser, such as in a work environment.

As a part-aside, I always use source mode in the editor, preferring to see any BBCode I've added and then always preview my posts before submitting them to make sure they look OK. I find WYSIWYG mode to be more trouble than it's worth, but that's a personal preference.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-04-22
I've been doing the posting from a Dell laptop if it makes any difference.  I'm about ready to load Firefox just because I've gotten so used to it anyway and I'd be willing to bet it won't have the problem ;)  I'll do that later and let you know what shows up.  BTW - would there be anyway at forum login to check the browser id (like we do on web pages) and set a variable of some sort to reflect to use the source mode (perhaps that variable is already there?) ?

---

### Post by Dreamer Fithp Apprentice on 2013-04-23
I had the same problem (and a similar problem with tabs) with Firefox under some Ubuntu and started a testing thread to determine the nature of the problem a year ago. Read the first post (which had a bunch of newlines and tabs in it as posted, though you won't see them) and you will see it is exactly the same issue:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1962901](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1962901)

My conclusions and how to deal with the issue are summarised in post 14 here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1962901&p=11863757#post11863757](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1962901&p=11863757#post11863757)

It's not which browser you use - it's how you have your preferences set  (possibly how they defaulted) or what add ons you installed in them.

Elsewhere in that thread is another solution by bodhi.zazen, elaborated later by cariboo907.

It's possible of course you have found something new, but the symptoms are exactly the same so I'd bet the cause is also. Check that out anyway.

And by the way, it is far from being a dumb question.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-25
Well, I'm back to all Linux now, so the problem no longer affects me.

---

