---
title: "0.26 hangs on exit on ubuntu 12.04"
date: 2013-12-16
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by JasonEde on 2013-12-16
I've noticed after some updates a while back that my front end is hanging on exiting occasionally. It seems the only way to sort it is to remote in and kill the mythfront end process and then it exists back to mythwelcome

It's hanging just after I select exit from within the front-end.

I've seen this [https://bugs.launchpad.net/mythbuntu/+bug/1097294](https://bugs.launchpad.net/mythbuntu/+bug/1097294) but it's from a while back and I'd have thought it would be sorted by now. I don't think airplay is enabled on my system (will check this evening!).

Has anyone else seen this?

---

### Post by khPWXxF on 2013-12-16
This looks a bit like the bug which I have had ever since installing 12.04.  Updates are frozen for stability and predictability.
On frontend exit, most of screen still shows frontend but a few bits at top and bottom of screen switch to desktop.
I'm running mythwelcome which still closes down despite this.
If I control F1, control F2, control F3 etc I'll find the welcome screen.

Phil

---

### Post by tuat2 on 2013-12-22
@JasonEde:
Did you check the logs? Maybe there's a hint on what's going wrong.

@khPWXxF:
Yours seems to be the screen update bug introduced somewhere in mythTV 0.25. Mythwelcome updates (repaints) very rarely. So it seems the frontend is still open, even though mythwelcome is actually there, but not updating the screen. It may take up to a minute for the screen to update if you have automatic shutdown enabled. If not, it may take forever.

---

