---
title: "9.04 radeon hdmi audio"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by jape42 on 2009-04-25
Hi All,

Just did a fresh install on my asus M3A78 pro MB (HD3200) , but I don't seem to be getting any audio via HDMI or SPDIF output.  Both are connected to my receiver. I'm using the radeon driver out if the box.

Obviously I've already checked for muted audio using alsamixer.  I haven't tried analog inputs yet.

Any ideas?

jp


 myth@vcr7:~$ aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: SB [HDA ATI SB], device 0: ALC1200 Analog [ALC1200 Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: SB [HDA ATI SB], device 1: ALC1200 Digital [ALC1200 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 1: HDMI [HDA ATI HDMI], device 3: ATI HDMI [ATI HDMI]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

---

### Post by jape42 on 2009-04-26
Analog audio seems to be working.  Disappointing that HDMI audio doesn't work out of the box.

jp

---

### Post by thisweb on 2009-04-26
Yes, this problem has been around for a while in Ubuntu/linux.  There are a lot of small cheap media centre /barebones  pcs with integrated graphics with HDMI ports -Ideal for linux/ubuntu/mythbuntu setup but there seems to be very little progress with HDMI software compatibility, especially with ATI cards. (both linux and windows)  The card manufacturers are mostly responsible for this but this kind of user  should be a real focus for Ubuntu..  Cheap low end computers will only really run Linux well and there are some great open source media centre softwares that work in linux . XBMC is superb with the right skins.  These are becoming a more and more popular and are likely to surpass the rise in popularity of low power netbooks, also very Linux friendly.

I certainlay can't stress enough to newcomers that they should NEVER buy an ATI over NVIDIA where you have the choice.  They have stopped support for loads of cards for Linux (and windows) since the Jaunty release. Their drivers have always been poor beta quality since as long as I can remember.  In fact I don't think any of their cards/drivers worked properly before they were phased out of production  Now, unless you have a top end card your stuck with old software. Appaling service.  Nvidia aren't exactly ace but they are miles ahead with compatibility issues and addressing bugscompared to AMD/ATI.

---

### Post by It's all Good on 2009-04-26
In your Myth frontend your audio output device should be set to ALSA:hw:1,3

1 = card
3 = device

---

### Post by jape42 on 2009-05-13
This isn't a "how to configure mythtv" problem.  The problem seems to be ubuntu related.  I was able to finally get the spdif out (780g chipset) working by adding the line below to /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf, but hdmi audio does not work (ie using mplayer).

regards

jp

options snd-hda-intel model=6stack-dig


> **It's all Good said:**
> In your Myth frontend your audio output device should be set to ALSA:hw:1,3

1 = card
3 = device

---

### Post by Dewey_Oxberger on 2009-05-13
What is your output of aplay -L

---

### Post by jape42 on 2009-05-17
```

myth@vcr7:~$ aplay -L
default:CARD=SB
    HDA ATI SB, ALC1200 Analog
    Default Audio Device
front:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC1200 Analog
    Front speakers
surround40:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC1200 Analog
    4.0 Surround output to Front and Rear speakers
surround41:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC1200 Analog
    4.1 Surround output to Front, Rear and Subwoofer speakers
surround50:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC1200 Analog
    5.0 Surround output to Front, Center and Rear speakers
surround51:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC1200 Analog
    5.1 Surround output to Front, Center, Rear and Subwoofer speakers
surround71:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC1200 Analog
    7.1 Surround output to Front, Center, Side, Rear and Woofer speakers
iec958:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC1200 Digital
    IEC958 (S/PDIF) Digital Audio Output
null
    Discard all samples (playback) or generate zero samples (capture)
hdmi:CARD=HDMI
    HDA ATI HDMI, ATI HDMI
    HDMI Audio Output
```

---

### Post by jape42 on 2010-12-04
After a disk died I did a fresh install of mythbuntu 10.10 (64bit), upgraded to mythtv 0.24 and hdmi audio is working great now.  5.1 audio to my TV/receiver and everything.

This is with an AMD 780g chipset (HD3200 video)

regards,

jp

---

### Post by the_pod on 2010-12-05
edit /etc/asound.conf to contain:
```

pcm.!default {
type hw
card 1
device 3
}

```

Shouldn't have any problems from there.  Now do let me know if you get sound outside of Myth... that's the problem I'm running into (and solved a year or so ago, but forgot how!)

---

### Post by nickrout on 2010-12-05
> **the_pod said:**
> edit /etc/asound.conf to contain:
```

pcm.!default {
type hw
card 1
device 3
}

```

Shouldn't have any problems from there.  Now do let me know if you get sound outside of Myth... that's the problem I'm running into (and solved a year or so ago, but forgot how!)


These days you should NOT need that.

---

### Post by the_pod on 2010-12-06
> **nickrout said:**
> These days you should NOT need that.

Interesting.  Starting at what version?  I'm running 10.04.  Is that still the case, or was this obsolesced in 10.10?

---

### Post by nickrout on 2010-12-06
> **the_pod said:**
> Interesting.  Starting at what version?  I'm running 10.04.  Is that still the case, or was this obsolesced in 10.10?

myth is at 0.24.

---

