---
title: "Unable to set resolution higher than 640x480 on HD TV"
date: 2009-09-24
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by dfinn on 2009-09-24
TV is a Panasonic Viera TC-L32X.  Video card is a NVidia 5200FX, TV is connected via VGA cable.  NVidia drivers have been installed.  Using the NVidia tool, I can't seem to set the resolution higher than 640x480.  The display is being detected as a generic CRT.

This is a fresh install of Mythbuntu 9.04 with all the latest updates.

This is the first of several problems I'm running into.  This one is my top priority because at this low of a resolution I can't even access all of the setup menus that I need to because they are being cut off.

Thanks,
Dan

---

### Post by dfinn on 2009-09-24
root@freevo:~# cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "UseEvents" "1"
    Option         "DPI" "100x100"
    Option         "NoLogo" "1"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by klc5555 on 2009-09-24
> **dfinn said:**
> TV is a Panasonic Viera TC-L32X.  Video card is a NVidia 5200FX, TV is connected via VGA cable.  NVidia drivers have been installed.  Using the NVidia tool, I can't seem to set the resolution higher than 640x480.  The display is being detected as a generic CRT.

This is a fresh install of Mythbuntu 9.04 with all the latest updates.

This is the first of several problems I'm running into.  This one is my top priority because at this low of a resolution I can't even access all of the setup menus that I need to because they are being cut off.

Thanks,
Dan

May or may not be similar to your case, but I had this low-res problem some months ago when I hooked up a new Olevia HD TV to a long-standing stable Mythbuntu setup using a VGA cable. 

In my case, the problem turned out to be the actual cable(!) I had purchased a brand-new "gold-contact" VGA cable for this HDTV  from Radio Shack --but the NVidia driver couldn't ID the display through it and just gave me low-res, period. Out of frustration, I hooked on instead a nicked-up 10-year-old junk VGA cable from my basement, that had two of the mounting screws missing. Fired right up, full resolution. No problem whatever.

The high-octane Radio Shack VGA cable works fine on another PC,  just not intermediating between the NVidia driver and an HD TV.

HDMI (via a DVI/HDMI adapter) also worked, of course. But that was later.

---

### Post by dfinn on 2009-09-24
Alright, I'll give that a try tonight.  It would be awesome if that fixed it.  This was with a brand new VGA cable from best buy.

edit: although, the same VGA cabled detected fine when hooked up to my macbook.

---

### Post by bsntech on 2009-09-25
I second the VGA cable as the culprit.

We installed a HDTV in our lobby at work and we hooked a PC up to it to play PowerPoint presentations for visitors and such.

A VGA cable that came from a Dell flat panel allowed all of the modes in Windows XP to work.  But, we bought a cheap cable from NewEgg and now the TV seems to only take 1024x768 as the input.  Other larger modes are available, but if we try to move it to these modes, the TV says it is unable to display the mode (although it did with the other VGA cable - that had to be returned to a flat panel for use).

---

### Post by dfinn on 2009-09-25
> **bsntech said:**
> I second the VGA cable as the culprit.

We installed a HDTV in our lobby at work and we hooked a PC up to it to play PowerPoint presentations for visitors and such.

A VGA cable that came from a Dell flat panel allowed all of the modes in Windows XP to work.  But, we bought a cheap cable from NewEgg and now the TV seems to only take 1024x768 as the input.  Other larger modes are available, but if we try to move it to these modes, the TV says it is unable to display the mode (although it did with the other VGA cable - that had to be returned to a flat panel for use).

Changing to a different cabled helped...a little.  I can now get 800x600.  The TV is now being detected as a Generic Plug 'n Play monitor.  Do I need to keep trying cables?

Is there a way to just force X to use higher resolutions?

---

### Post by klc5555 on 2009-09-25
> **dfinn said:**
> Changing to a different cabled helped...a little.  I can now get 800x600.  The TV is now being detected as a Generic Plug 'n Play monitor.  Do I need to keep trying cables?

Is there a way to just force X to use higher resolutions?

I'd recommend an old VGA cable. Older the better. The problem seems to be with the NVidia driver (and the VGA cable to the HDTV) more than it is X specifically. 

If your NVidia card outputs DVI (or HDMI), use it. (Do any NVidia cards _not_ do DVI or HDMI any more?) Even if you have to pick up a DVI to HDMI adapter to run it to your HDTV, it will work fine straightaway, and the output to the TV, being digital, will be of somewhat higher quality than the analog through the VGA output.

You can (or could in earlier X iterations) force resolutions with the open source "nv" driver, but "nv" won't get you satisfactory results with HDTV. I don't think you can force the proprietary Nvidia drivers if they can't properly detect the display.

---

### Post by SiHa on 2009-09-27
I have almost the exact same config as you, a FX5200, and a Panasonic Viera 32" (Can't remember the exact model, but its a 720p one, not 1080p).

In my case, I could get the correct resolution pretty much OOB, but ony if the TV was switched on when the box came up, I had to modify the 'monitor' section to give it a modeline it could use to set the right resolution regardless of what it thought was correct

A good first source of information when attempting to diagnose X errors is the Xorg logfile **/var/log/Xorg.0.log**

Here's my xorg.conf, note that the 'modeline' statement needs to me matched by the 'Modes' statement in the Screen section.

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Tue Mar  4 20:24:34 UTC 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Panasonic-TV"
    HorizSync       15.0 - 68.0
    VertRefresh     23.0 - 61.0
[COLOR="Red"]    modeline        "1280x720@60" 74.25 1280 1390 1430 1650 720 725 730 750 +hsync +vsync[/COLOR]
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Generic Video Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "DPI" "100x100"
    Option         "UseEvents" "1"
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "1"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "1"
    Option         "NoLogo" "1"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth   24 
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "ConnectedMonitor" "DFP"
    Option         "ExactModeTimingsDVI" "TRUE"
[COLOR="Red"]    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth      24
        Modes      "1280x720@60"
    EndSubSection[/COLOR]

EndSection
```

Edit 1) I should mention that I'm using 8.04, 9.04 has a lot less dependance on xorg.conf.
Edit 2) Also, I just realised you're using a VGA cable, I'm using DVI -> HDMI. Have you tried this? It doesn't have to be a flash one, I got mine for under £5 on eBay. A lot of flat panels have very poor support for VGA, that might be the main cause of your problems.

---

### Post by tonycollinet on 2009-09-28
The solution to this for me was to setup xorg.conf to use a custom edid file instead of downloading it from the tv.

Here is my xorg.conf.

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Modeline "1280x720_50" 59.42 1280 1312 1536 1568 720 735 741 757
	Modeline "720x480_60" 27.000 720 736 798 858 480 489 495 525 -hsync -vsync
	Modeline "720x576_50" 27.000 720 732 796 864 576 581 586 625 -hsync -vsync
	Option          "PreferredMode" "1280x720_50"
	Option "UseEDID" "TRUE"
	Option "ModeValidation" "NoMaxPClkCheck, NoEdidMaxPClkCheck, AllowNon60HzDFPModes"
	#NoEdidDFPMaxSizeCheck, NoMaxSizeCheck, NoEdidMaxPClkCheck,NoHorizSyncCheck, NoVertRefreshCheck"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
	Option "ConnectedMonitor" "DFP" 
	Option "UseDisplayDevice" "DFP-0" 
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes   "1280x720_50" "720x480_60" "720x576_50"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
	Disable	"dri2"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option "CustomEDID" "DFP-0:/etc/X11/panasonic_edid.bin"
#	Option "CustomEDID" "CRT-0:/etc/X11/panasonic_edid.bin"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
 Option "blank time" "0"
 Option "standby time" "0"
 Option "suspend time" "0"
 Option "off time" "0"
 Option "screen blank" "0"
EndSection

---

### Post by dfinn on 2009-09-29
> **tonycollinet said:**
> The solution to this for me was to setup xorg.conf to use a custom edid file instead of downloading it from the tv.

Here is my xorg.conf.

Thanks Tony, would you mind posting the contents of that custom edid file?  I'm not sure what that should look like?

My nvidia card doesn't have a DVI out, just VGA and s-video.  I do have an ATI card (9800 or 9600 pro, can't remember which) that I'm going to try and see if I can get that to work with the VGA cable.  If not, I'm pretty sure that card has DVI out.

---

### Post by Caysho on 2009-09-30
VGA connections will not provide broadcast standed resolutions, and I expect you will get distortion.  The [pixel mapping wiki]("http://pixelmapping.wikispaces.com/Why+1366x768%3F") has some information about 1366x768.  According to the page linked form the wiki "Standard EDID codes dont exist for 1366 x 768".  It is an interesting read.

I have an nvidia FX5700 sending 1080p via DVI to my Samsung in Just Scan mode. Searching on TC-L32X on the Panasonic web site does not return anything, but a quick check of the Panasonic TH-L32X10A manual only mentions 16:9 or 4:3 modes for VGA input, and normal resolutions for VGA monitors.

tonycollinet - where did you get the EDID file ?

---

### Post by dfinn on 2009-10-01
Since my existing card doesn't have a DVI out I'm thinking about grabbing a 6200FX off of newegg.  My question is....isn't my TV going to be expecting audio to be also going over that HDMI connection?  But I'm guessing that won't be happening.  I'm currently just plugging into my headphone jack on my myth box and that having that go into the audio RCA connections for the "PC" (aka VGA) input for my TV.  But there is no additional RCA audio inputs for my HDMI connections on the back of my TV so what will happen to my audio input?

---

### Post by SiHa on 2009-10-01
Depends on the TV, but if, as you say, there's no audio input for the HDMI, then probably you're right. I have two TV's with HDMI, one will accept audio via separate RCA, but my Philips one will only accept audio over HDMI,so I have to drive it with VGA + RCA. 
You may be lucky, and find the AUX HDMI input will accept separate audio, otherwise you'll need to get a card with HDMI out that will also do audio on the HDMI connector. Read posts on this forum first, it's not always plain sailing. Maybe you're better off persevering with the VGA?

I'd also just like to argue a teensy bit with Caysho. It's true that VGA doesn't provide broadcast resolution, but as also stated in that post, TV screens aren't a broadcast resolution either, one of the most common being 1366x768. A digital TV has to scale whatever it displays, so naturally they have excellent scalers to do this with no jagged edges. As long as you set the resolution to the same aspect ratio as the screen you should have no (noticeable) distortion.

My two pence worth.

---

### Post by tonycollinet on 2009-10-02
Sorry for the delay in getting back. The custom edid is a binary file which I captured from my TV using the nvidea driver.

If you want it, I can email it to you (I think you have a panasonic TV - but even if you don't, it shouldn't matter, because all you are doing is fooling xorg that  you have that tv connected, so that it will output the correct mode.

If you want it, PM me with an email address.

---

### Post by Caysho on 2009-10-02
> **SiHa said:**
> 
I'd also just like to argue a teensy bit with Caysho. It's true that VGA doesn't provide broadcast resolution, but as also stated in that post, TV screens aren't a broadcast resolution either, one of the most common being 1366x768. A digital TV has to scale whatever it displays, so naturally they have excellent scalers to do this with no jagged edges. As long as you set the resolution to the same aspect ratio as the screen you should have no (noticeable) distortion.

My two pence worth.

It is true that many TV's are 1366x768 :)
When I was researching for a purchase, I was about to buy a Panasonic but by chance found a reference to pixel mapping and continued looking for a TV that would take a DVI signal and just display it.
When reading through manuals for resolution specifications, it always seemed VGA/PC connections were an afterthought on the manufacturer's part.
This saved me a lot of hassle since :)

---

### Post by SiHa on 2009-10-03
> ...VGA/PC connections were an afterthought on the manufacturer's part.

Yes, I'll give you that point, VGA support is pretty lousy on most TV's.

---

