---
title: "11.04 fresh install hangs"
date: 2011-08-04
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by johnkb on 2011-08-04
Hi All,

I'm new to this forum and also new to Mythbuntu. I'm trying to do a fresh install of 11.04 and everything seems to go OK until it gets to configuring MythTV. The installer hangs with the progress bar about 1/5th of the way across.

I don't have a TV card yet, I'm just interested in setting it up initially to access music from my fileserver (but plan to use it for TV in the future). I have a Nvidia Geforce 6200 graphics card.

Any ideas on what the problem may be or how to diagnose it?


Thanks.

John.

---

### Post by thatguruguy on 2011-08-05
You need to set up some kind of tuner card, even if it's a dummy card.  You can do so by following the instructions [here]("http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/MythAVTest").

---

### Post by thatguruguy on 2011-08-05
As an aside, there are much easier ways to stream music and video than setting up a mythbuntu install.  For instance, mediatomb (a upnp server) is available in the repositories and can be installed through the Ubuntu Software Center or synaptic.

---

### Post by johnkb on 2011-08-05
> **thatguruguy said:**
> You need to set up some kind of tuner card, even if it's a dummy card.  You can do so by following the instructions [here]("http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/MythAVTest").

Thanks for the tip, but I can't get though the installation to even set up a tuner card. It allows me to configure my graphics card (I choose the open source drivers but will probably install the Nvidia drivers later), and other basic options (like timezone, user account, etc) but hangs during the installation when it says "Configuring mythtv". After waiting for a loooong time I just did a hard shutdown and came here :)

I'll check out mediatomb as well - it may do for the short term, but I am planning on doing the whole TV thing eventually, hence the mythbuntu install

John.

---

### Post by williammanda on 2011-08-12
When get a tuner card let us know if you have a problem.

---

### Post by klc5555 on 2011-08-12
> **johnkb said:**
> Thanks for the tip, but I can't get though the installation to even set up a tuner card. It allows me to configure my graphics card (I choose the open source drivers but will probably install the Nvidia drivers later), and other basic options (like timezone, user account, etc) but hangs during the installation when it says "Configuring mythtv". After waiting for a loooong time I just did a hard shutdown and came here :)

I'll check out mediatomb as well - it may do for the short term, but I am planning on doing the whole TV thing eventually, hence the mythbuntu install

John.

Well, if you can't get in through the front door, you may want to check the back one.

Mythbuntu is essentially a stripped-down Xubuntu, with mythtv added. In this vein, you may wish to see whether you can successfully complete and boot a plain-vanilla Xubuntu 11.04 installation.

If this is successful, try installing the three packages mythtv-common, mythtv-backend, and mythtv-frontend via Synaptic or apt-get. If the three packages (and their dependencies) install successfully, you can attempt to set up the backend from a prompt (where fatal errors will be visible) with sudo mythtv-setup  

In this way, you'll start with a running system before you begin to install, much less configure mythtv. If the mythtv configuration really blows up, it will be easier to debug from an already running system. If the configuration is successful, the other Mythbuntu window dressing (themes, control centre, plugins, etc.) can be added later.

---

### Post by johnkb on 2011-08-15
> **klc5555 said:**
> Well, if you can't get in through the front door, you may want to check the back one.

Mythbuntu is essentially a stripped-down Xubuntu, with mythtv added. In this vein, you may wish to see whether you can successfully complete and boot a plain-vanilla Xubuntu 11.04 installation.

If this is successful, try installing the three packages mythtv-common, mythtv-backend, and mythtv-frontend via Synaptic or apt-get. If the three packages (and their dependencies) install successfully, you can attempt to set up the backend from a prompt (where fatal errors will be visible) with sudo mythtv-setup  

In this way, you'll start with a running system before you begin to install, much less configure mythtv. If the mythtv configuration really blows up, it will be easier to debug from an already running system. If the configuration is successful, the other Mythbuntu window dressing (themes, control centre, plugins, etc.) can be added later.
That's an excellent plan - thanks for the idea. Just last night I managed to get around the problem though. I took out my graphics card (for no particular no reason, just trying different combinations of stuff) and just used the onboard graphics and everything installed OK. I then put the graphics card back in, booted up and installed the nvidia drivers without a problem. So I don't know what caused the problem in the first place, but it seems to be related to the graphics card???

When I get a chance (which may be a looooong time) I might blow everything away and try your suggestion, just so I can try to work out the real problem and solution.

---

