---
title: "[8.04 Final] What user does mythtv run mythfilldatabase as?"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Ubeast on 2008-04-26
I'm currently setting up my EPG, which in Australia pretty much means Shepherd - far and away the best - [http://svn.whuffy.com/index.cgi/wiki](http://svn.whuffy.com/index.cgi/wiki).

Anyway, the installation instructions make the following note:

> Shepherd should be installed as whichever user is going to run it. We recommend that this not be root.

> Integration with MythTV ¶

Shepherd's job is to create a file of TV guide data for the next 7 days: by default, ~/.shepherd/output.xmltv. (It also creates a log file at ~/.shepherd/log/shepherd.log.) Most users want this guide data to end up inside MythTV. This task is handled by MythTV's mythfilldatabase program.

To periodically run Shepherd, you can:

   1. In mythtv-setup -> Video Sources, select "Australia" (tv_grab_au). Upon exiting this page, MythTV will run Shepherd in configuration mode. Control-C to exit. Run the MythTV frontend, and in Utilities/Setup -> Setup -> General -> Mythfilldatabase, check "Automatically run mythfilldatabase". You might want to tweak the Start and End times (if convenient, please avoid 2AM and 8AM, as these tend to be peak times), but otherwise all default values should be fine. Note: This method will run Shepherd as whichever user mythfilldatabase runs as. If mythfilldatabase runs as root, and you cannot change that, then in order for Shepherd to find its config files, it must be installed as root, too (despite this being a heightened security risk).

      or

   2. Create a cron job to run Shepherd yourself, and have mythfilldatabase read Shepherd's output with the --file option. 

On my machine I have my main user (jesse) and obviously the mythtv user (mythtv). The backend clearly seems to be run as user mythtv, so does that mean mythfilldatabase is also run as mythtv? If I run mythfilldatabase as user 'jesse' will it still be able to populate myths epg database?

---

### Post by jbman on 2008-04-26
i run a cron job on mine instead of the inbuilt mythfilldatabase. it runs under my username and works fine. i found under the inbuilt there was permission problems, so i just made the con job.

---

### Post by pommattski on 2008-04-26
I use Shepherd for MythTV on a Feisty box... works very well. The HD channel data's getting better as well.

I followed those instructions you're looking at there and remember having the same sorts of questions, lots of searching and multiple attempts...

Note that I was not using any mythbuntu packages - I don't think they existed for Feisty.  I made some notes at the time on how I did it but I cannot vouch for their completeness or compatibility with current versions (you may already have a password for mythtv user, for instance):

Created password for user mythtv, then granted rights: 
 sudo passwd mythtv
 Edit the file /etc/group and add mythtv admin groups.
Switched to mythtv user:  su -l mythtv
Now reinstall shepherd.

Please let me know how you go with this... I'll probably end up reinstalling my backend machine next month with Hardy.
Matt.

---

### Post by laga on 2008-04-26
> **Ubeast said:**
> 
On my machine I have my main user (jesse) and obviously the mythtv user (mythtv). The backend clearly seems to be run as user mythtv, so does that mean mythfilldatabase is also run as mythtv? If I run mythfilldatabase as user 'jesse' will it still be able to populate myths epg database?

If the backend runs as the user mythtv, any processes spawned by it will also by run by 'mythtv' (unless you use 'su'). I think there's also a cron job which will run mythfilldatabase in /etc/cron.daily. It might be a good idea to get rid of the cron job in the packages, but OTOH, it's necessary for database cleanup for those who don't run mythfilldatbase regularly.

---

### Post by parsim on 2008-09-07
Old thread, but for anyone new: Shepherd now has a "--configure-mythtv" option:

[http://svn.whuffy.com/wiki/Installation#Autoconfiguration](http://svn.whuffy.com/wiki/Installation#Autoconfiguration)

> Shepherd will register itself as 'tv_grab_au' on your system (by creating a symbolic link, usually in /usr/bin/), register itself with MythTV as the default grabber, and set up a cron job so that your system regularly invokes Shepherd in order to regularly download up-to-date guide data.

---

