---
title: "issues with 14.04"
date: 2014-06-21
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by jrbless on 2014-06-21
I've been using Mythbuntu for a number of years and generally been able to make it work.  I decided to do a clean install of 14.04 LTS to bring things up to date from 13.04 LTS and am having problems with fairly obvious things.

problem #1 - graphics
The video card is a nVidia 9500 GT and I have it hooked up to a widescreen tv via the component output.  In 13.04, I had it running at 1080p without issues.  In the install process, I tell it to use the proprietary nVidia drivers, with component output, and the mode of HD1080p.  When the install finishes and reboots, it is instead running in 1024x768, with not being able to see the top of the screen with black bars on either side.  The version of the nVidia driver that installed is 331.38.  The only resolutions the "Settings -> Display" gives are the 1024x768 through 800x60 with no widescreen modes available.  How do I fix this to get the widescreen portion working again at 1080p?

problem #2 - Mythbuntu Control Center / VNC server
In 13.04, I would routinely remote in using VNC.  When I try enabling the VNC service using Mythbuntu Control Center, it acts like it finishes, and then the Mythbuntu Control center throws an error that it wants to report back.  Of course, when trying to connect to the VNC server using Real VNC, it doesn't work and gives a "connect: Connection refused (10061)" error.  How do I get VNC working again?  Being able to remote in with something other than SSH is too useful to give up.

If anyone can give advice on how to make these work, I will be grateful.  I can run whatever commands are requested to provide output files as needed.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-06-21
Sometimes it is better to run the old LTS version 12.04, which is well debugged and polished. Particularly with old and middle-aged computers, it might also have better drivers for the hardware.

I suggest that you try [**Mythbuntu** 12.04.4 LTS (Precise Pangolin) - CdImage]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mythbuntu/releases/12.04/release/")

---

### Post by blm-ubunet on 2014-06-21
Problem 1.
Component does not support any EDID..the video card has no idea what video mode to use, you have to tell it.

Run nvidia-settings & select the required video mode & then save to xorg.conf file.
(prob need to start nvidia-settings with gksudo)

If you do not have any decent video modes to choose from, you will have to add some options/keywords into /etc/X11/xorg.conf so the video card knows there is no EDID mode pool.
This is an old driver readme but .. you can find a matching readme..
[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/275.09.07/README/xconfigoptions.html](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/275.09.07/README/xconfigoptions.html)

This is probably a good start.
Option "UseEDID" "FALSE"

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2014-06-23
Problem 2

You need to run updates then restart MCC and configure VNC. That issue was fixed awhile ago.

---

### Post by jrbless on 2014-06-24
What updates are you talking about?  I do a clean install, telling it to download updates while installing.  When it starts up, I exit mythfrontend and go to System->Software Updates and there are no additional updates to install.

---

### Post by jrbless on 2014-06-24
I figured out the problem I was having with VNC.  Apparently, you have to restart the computer after enabling it through the Mythbuntu Control Center.

[**[COLOR=#000000]blm-ubunet[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1899844"), thank you for the pointer on where to start fixing xorg.conf.  Below is the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file I ended up using (that works for me).  I initially generated it by running sudo nvidia-xconfig to generate the file, then tweaked it using [http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/NVIDIA_Component_Out#nVidia_Configuration](http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/NVIDIA_Component_Out#nVidia_Configuration)

> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 331.38  (buildmeister@swio-display-x64-rhel04-15)  Wed Jan  8 19:53:14 PST 2014

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       15.0 - 620.0
    VertRefresh     15.0 - 600.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
       Option     "UseEDID" "FALSE"
       Option     "ConnectedMonitor" "TV"
       Option     "TvOutFormat" "Component"
       Option     "metamodes" "CRT: 1920x1080 +0+0"
       Option     "TVStandard" "HD1080i"
       Option      "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"

    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes    "720x480" "1280x720" "1920x1080"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

