---
title: "Fintek MCEUSB Mythbuntu 12.04.02"
date: 2013-03-17
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by betolley on 2013-03-17
I am trying to get the blaster to work. If i use irsend the blaster blinks....Once for everytime I run the command  irsend SEND_STOP PaceDC50X KEY_5 I have no errors and if I watch the transmitter with a camera it blinks once. If I watch the original remote and press the button once it blinks multiple times.  If I point the original remote at the receiver and use irw I get the correct buttons detected by the receiver.   I have multiple OSs and it works fine in Windows and I hold the sensor in place on the DTA with velcro in the same place as in Windows...Anyone have any idea?


```
root@blackbox:~# ls /dev/lir*
/dev/lirc0  /dev/lircd 

```
Gets one blink from the transmitter
```

irsend SEND_ONCE PaceDC50X KEY_5

```
```

# /etc/lirc/hardware.conf
#
#Chosen Remote Control
REMOTE="Windows Media Center Transceivers/Remotes (all)"
REMOTE_MODULES="lirc_dev mceusb"
REMOTE_DRIVER=""
REMOTE_DEVICE="/dev/lirc0"
REMOTE_SOCKET=""
REMOTE_LIRCD_CONF="mceusb/lircd.conf.mceusb"
REMOTE_LIRCD_ARGS=""

#Chosen IR Transmitter
TRANSMITTER="Microsoft Windows Media Center V2 (usb) : Motorola Cable box"
TRANSMITTER_MODULES="lirc_dev mceusb"
TRANSMITTER_DRIVER=""
TRANSMITTER_DEVICE="/dev/lircd"
TRANSMITTER_SOCKET=""
TRANSMITTER_LIRCD_CONF="pace/pace.conf"
TRANSMITTER_LIRCD_ARGS=""


#Enable lircd
START_LIRCD="true"

#Don't start lircmd even if there seems to be a good config file
#START_LIRCMD="false"

#Try to load appropriate kernel modules
LOAD_MODULES="true"

# Default configuration files for your hardware if any
LIRCMD_CONF=""

#Forcing noninteractive reconfiguration
#If lirc is to be reconfigured by an external application
#that doesn't have a debconf frontend available, the noninteractive
#frontend can be invoked and set to parse REMOTE and TRANSMITTER
#It will then populate all other variables without any user input
#If you would like to configure lirc via standard methods, be sure
#to leave this set to "false"
FORCE_NONINTERACTIVE_RECONFIGURATION="false"
START_LIRCMD=""

```
```

root@blackbox:/etc/lirc/backup# cat lircd.conf
#This configuration has been automatically generated via
#the Ubuntu LIRC package maintainer scripts.
#
#It includes the default configuration for the remote and/or
#transmitter that you have selected during package installation.
#
#Feel free to add any custom remotes to the configuration
#via additional include directives or below the existing
#Ubuntu include directives from your selected remote and/or
#transmitter.

#Configuration for the Windows Media Center Transceivers/Remotes (all) remote:
include "/usr/share/lirc/remotes/mceusb/lircd.conf.mceusb"
include "/usr/share/lirc/extras/transmitters/pace/pace.conf"


```

```

# Please make this file available to others
#
# this config file was automatically generated
# using lirc-0.8.6-CVS(default) on Mon Jan 11 21:34:36 2010
#
# contributed by Kirk Bocek
#
# brand: Comcast Branded Motorola DTA100 and Pace DC50X
# model no. of remote control: Unknown, Comcast Label
# devices being controlled by this remote: Motorola DTA100 & Pace DC50X
#
# These are a couple of the cheap digital converters being provided by
# Comcast as part of their analog shutdown. DTA100 information here:
# http://www.motorola.com/Business/US-EN/Business+Product+and+Services/TV+Video+Distribution/Customer+Premises+Equipment+%28Set-tops%29# 
# /All-Digital+QAM+Settops/DTA100_US-EN
#
# This remote also has power and volume buttons. You can program these
# to control your TV. But these DTAs *do* have internal volume and mute
# controls. The power button, however, is only for your TV and has no
# effect on the DTA.
#
# Because this remote use the XMP protocol, this config requires
# lirc 0.8.6 or later.
#
# Generated by starting with the generic XMP protocol configuration:
# http://lirc.sourceforge.net/remotes/generic/XMP
# and then using irrecord to add the keys.
#
# V.2 - Added Volume Up and Volume Down
# V.3 - Confirmed operation with Pace DC50X. Changed strings to
#       conform with standard strings used in lirc 0.8.6.
#

begin remote

   name PaceDC50X
   bits           24
   flags XMP
   eps            20
   aeps          300

   one             0   137
   zero          250   710
   ptrail        250
   pre_data_bits   32
   pre_data       0x170F443E
   post_data_bits  8
   post_data      0x0
   pre           250 12921
   gap          81698
   toggle_bit_mask 0x0

       begin codes
           KEY_1                       0x1E0001
           KEY_2                       0x1D0002
           KEY_3                       0x1C0003
           KEY_4                       0x1B0004
           KEY_5                       0x1A0005
           KEY_6                       0x190006
           KEY_7                       0x180007
           KEY_8                       0x170008
           KEY_9                       0x160009
           KEY_0                       0x1F0000
           KEY_CHANNELDOWN             0x11000E
           KEY_CHANNELUP               0x12000D
           KEY_MUTE                    0x13000C
           KEY_VOLUMEDOWN              0x14000B
           KEY_VOLUMEUP                0x15000A
           KEY_LANGUAGE                0x150082
           KEY_INFO                    0x170026
           KEY_ENTER                   0x180025
           KEY_LAST                    0x190051
       end codes

end remote

```
```
root@blackbox:/etc/lirc# dmesg | grep mceusb
[   18.884628] input: MCE IR Keyboard/Mouse (mceusb) as /devices/virtual/input/input3
[   18.935328] rc rc0: lirc_dev: driver ir-lirc-codec (mceusb) registered at minor = 0
[   19.049704] mceusb 3-1:1.0: Registered FINTEK eHome Infrared Transceiver with mce emulator interface version 2
[   19.049709] mceusb 3-1:1.0: 2 tx ports (0x0 cabled) and 2 rx sensors (0x0 active)
[   19.049774] usbcore: registered new interface driver mceusb
 
```

---

### Post by klc5555 on 2013-03-17
With modern versions of LIRC starting with 0.8.6, I've only been able to get the Pace dc50x boxes to change channels by sending the raw codes from the blaster to the DTA, as are found in the conf file found in section 3.1 here: [http://regx.dgswa.com/html/node/134](http://regx.dgswa.com/html/node/134)  I continue to use this file with lirc 0.8.7; I suspect it should still be fine with the lirc 0.9.0 included with Mythbuntu 12.04

Also what happens when you use the command "irsend send_once" rather than "irsend send_stop"?

---

### Post by betolley on 2013-03-17
Sorry stupid typing mistake.  I am doing SEND_ONCE.

I change the config to the RAW format config instead of the xmpp.  Still same problem. Except no flashing on the transmitter at all now.

irsend LIST "" ""

still shows DC50X


Any other ideas?

---

### Post by klc5555 on 2013-03-17
Not really, other than to ask what feedback lircd is giving you, if any, when irsend fails. Easiest way would be to kill lircd and run it (sudo) from a terminal with the --nodaemon option. Then play with irsend in a second window. The lircd window may give you some clues.

---

### Post by betolley on 2013-03-17
I ran with nodaemon  I get the following output with irsend commands.
```

/usr/sbin/lircd --output=/var/run/lirc/lircd --device=/dev/lirc0 --nodaemon
lircd-0.9.0[2811]: lircd(default) ready, using /var/run/lirc/lircd
lircd-0.9.0[2811]: accepted new client on /var/run/lirc/lircd
lircd-0.9.0[2811]: removed client
lircd-0.9.0[2811]: accepted new client on /var/run/lirc/lircd
lircd-0.9.0[2811]: removed client
lircd-0.9.0[2811]: accepted new client on /var/run/lirc/lircd
lircd-0.9.0[2811]: removed client

```

but no channel changes.

---

### Post by klc5555 on 2013-03-18
Then I believe the issue is likely the problematical mceusb driver itself, and how it's talking (or not) with your Fintek blaster.Though Fintek is, in theory, supposed to be supported by the mceusb driver,  it's frequently fairly hit-or-miss as to whether any official  "mceusb" device actually functions with the mceusb driver in any given installation. 

You can perhaps try the mceusb2 driver also, and in the likely event it fails for you, my only other recommendation might be to try a third-party blaster/receiver that supplies its own Linux non-kernel-level driver. After some frustration with LIRC and these Pace dc50x boxes, I went with the Iguanaworks blaster. Other than needing to recompile LIRC to include their iguana ir driver (since Ubuntu doesn't include the driver in their LIRC driver set) I've never had any particular issue with the devices over several years.

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-08
I have tried to get 3 different IR Blasters to work with a MythTV computer(s)/setup, the first being the Rosewill RHRC-11001 MCE USB transceiver which registers as a Formosa21 eHome Infrared Remote Transceiver, with Vendor_:_Product ID 147a:e042, the second being a Hauppauge PVR-150 PCI card with built-in IR Transmitter, and the third (current effort) being an HP branded OEM MCE USB transceiver which registers as a Feature Integration Technology Inc. (Fintek) F71610A or F71612A with Vendor_:_Product ID 1934:5168.  All three of these devices were able to receive IR from their respective included remotes, but only the HP/Fintek showed any sign of actually transmitting, in that I could see the IR LED (and the main box activity LED) blink when doing irsend.  I am trying to transmit to a Motorola DTA100, which is (in theory) identical to the Pace DC50X, and the config file provided by lirc.org is the same for both units, however... the author of that config file (v 2.3), originally posted it with the following "zero" definition:

zero          250   710

whereas the current lirc.org file here: [http://lirc.sourceforge.net/remotes/pace/DTA100](http://lirc.sourceforge.net/remotes/pace/DTA100) (and same for the motorola directory) has the "zero" as:

zero          210   750

The author Kirk Bocek documents that he started with a generic XMP file here: [http://lirc.sourceforge.net/remotes/generic/XMP](http://lirc.sourceforge.net/remotes/generic/XMP) and added the various remote keys.  This generic XMP config has the "zero" defined as 250 710.  Note also that the DC50X/DTA100 has "bits" set to 24 versus 32 in the generic XMP config.

Using the original (and geneirc XMP) "zero" 250 710 definition in the DC50X/DTA100 config I can see the HP MCE USB transmitter LED flash with irsend, but using the 210 750 it does not.  Although I think there is a bigger overall problem/bug in the IR Transmit software of lirc 0.9.0, possibly in the mceusb driver, the question is why a relatively small change in those numbers would produce flash versus no flash.  I suppose someone should mention the "error" to lirc.org, assuming it is one, but I don't remember seeing any flash when initially testing with the (unrelated) dctxxxx.conf file that the lirc installer used as the "Motorola Cable box", and that would suggest that the problem is bigger than the DC50X/DTA100 config per se.

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-08
Worth noting is that there are two IR connectors on the back of the HP MCE USB device, and the port to the right of the USB cable facing the back of the unit (and make sure the plug goes all the way into the connector as the last 1/8" was stubborn) is the only one that "works" in my testing.  In theory the other is also a transmitter port (?) and might work by using irsend SET_TRANSMITTERS to 2,3,4 ?  The mceusb driver logs (dmesg) 2 transmitters/ports:

mceusb 6-2:1.0: 2 tx ports (0x0 cabled) and 2 rx sensors (0x0 active)

---

### Post by betolley on 2013-04-08
i tried several different distros. fedora would not work at all. I had the same issue as you if I used the pace config with xmpp in it I would get one flash every time I sent a signal. I should have gotten several.  I would not get anything with the raw format. I restored a copy of win 7 and I am sadly using NPR.mit is working fine. Media center worked fine also.

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-08
At least that proves that the problem is not the hardware, or hardware interaction issues like the distance between the IR blaster LED and the STB, or ambient IR light interference.  I almost tried Fedora because I read that some of the IR devs were with Redhat, so that is also surprising.  I am now wrestling with the option of going back to Ubuntu 10.04 as the last version with pre-0.9.0 lirc, or maybe 0.8.6/0.8.7 could be compiled from source and the kernel built-in mceusb blacklisted (?).

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-08
Found this comment on [http://www.lirc.org/faq.html]("http://www.lirc.org/faq.html")

> "From 2.6.36 on all LIRC kernel drivers are already included in the kernel. There has been a slight interface change in the LIRC ioctls that will affect 64-bit kernels. For recent kernels please only use 0.9.0 which is compatilbe with the in-kernel drivers."

Since I was trying to get the HP/Fintek device to work on a 64 bit Ubuntu 13.04, maybe I should try again using 32 bit...

---

### Post by betolley on 2013-04-08
> **billstei said:**
> Found this comment on [http://www.lirc.org/faq.html]("http://www.lirc.org/faq.html")



Since I was trying to get the HP/Fintek device to work on a 64 bit Ubuntu 13.04, maybe I should try again using 32 bit...

I tried 10.04 same problem let me know if the 32bit works.

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-10
Unfortunately the 32 bit Ubuntu 13.04 Beta 2 does not pass the integrity check (or run the Ubuntu Installer), and this problem is being tracked here:

[Ubuntu 13.04 32-bit Live Broken]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/casper/+bug/1166379")

In the meantime I thought it would be advantageous to try getting better debug information from the mceusb kernel module by compiling my own as detailed here:

[Compile mceusb.c]("http://www.hack-job.org/uncategorized/recompile-a-kernel-module-example-mceusb-c/")

In order to get the debug info turned on, instead of just using "make", I did this:

make CONFIG_USB_DEBUG=1

In theory the mceusb.c file is version 1.92 (line 48 of mceusb.c) in both Ubuntu 12.10 and 13.04 Beta 2+ (amd64) however, running a diff shows that there have been several changes to the code, any one of which could have produced problems/bugs (and going further back to Ubuntu 12.04 etc might have even more changes).  In any event, I am very new to this code, but it seems relatively easy to turn on the debugging messages -  see lines 157-168, C macro mce_dbg() -- including the ability to add my own...

I am initially suspicious of the following code (circa line 1355):

	if (ir->flags.microsoft_gen1)
		mceusb_gen1_init(ir);
	else if (!is_gen3)
		mceusb_gen2_init(ir);

Is the Fintek a Gen1, Gen2, or Gen3, MCE USB device? (and did the mceusb module get it right...)

---

### Post by betolley on 2013-04-10
Pretty sure gen 2. Gen 1 will not work in win 7.

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-10
I have a "working" mceusb.ko now with debugging turned on.  Disregard my "make CONFIG_USB_DEBUG" invocation example above, that does not work.  I put a #define CONFIG_USB_DEBUG right before the debug vaiable #ifdef instead.

The driver thinks the Fintek is Gen2 -- I take it there is no such thing as a Gen3.

Here is the dmesg output when unloading (rmmod) and reloading (modprobe) the module, twice: [Debug Info via dmesg]("http://pastebin.ca/2355200")

Interesting things:

1) The error message: Illegal PORT_SYS command
2) The error messages: Unknown command 0x9f 0x05,  Unknown command 0x00 0x02, Unknown command 0x00 0xff
3a) 1st rmmod/modprobe message: 0 tx ports (0x0 cabled) and 2 rx sensors (0x1 active)
3b) 2nd rmmod/modprobe message: 2 tx ports (0x0 cabled) and 2 rx sensors (0x0 active)

It seems obvious that 3a/3b would not give me a warm fuzzy feeling since nothing changed or was utilized between the 10105 and 10146 timestamps.

---

### Post by betolley on 2013-04-10
Do you have a working blaster driver now or just a compiled one?

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-11
"Working" meaning not working, just dmesg noisier.  What do you get when you do:

dmesg | grep "tx ports"

Keep in mind that I really have no idea what I'm doing (yet)... but maybe the question we need to ask is what does "cabled" mean here:

mceusb 6-2:1.0: 2 tx ports (0x0 cabled) and 2 rx sensors (0x0 active)

My first guess: It means the driver thinks there are 2 transmit ports available (probably true) and 0 of them have IR blasters plugged into them (not true).

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-11
Some further debugging info:

In the [dmesg]("http://pastebin.ca/2355200") log in my Comment #15 above there is the following:

[10105.665865] mceusb 6-2:1.0: Get carrier mode and freq
[10105.666855] mceusb 6-2:1.0: rx data: 9f 06 01 66 (length=4)
[10105.666861] mceusb 6-2:1.0: Got carrier of 24390 Hz (period 41us)

Decoding the message:

9f = CMD_PORT_IR (Command: Port IR)
06 = CMD_SETIRCFS (Command: Set IR Carrier Frequency) 
01 = CP (Carrier Prescalar)
66 = CC (Carrier Period)

Period = ( 2 ^ (CP*2) ) * (CC+1) * 0.1 uS
Frequency = 1 / Period

This is documented in "Windows-Media-Center-RC-IR-Collection-Green-Button-Specification-03-08-2011-V2.pdf" (pgs 87-88) but don't ask me how to point/link to it on microsoft.com... try Google.

Since the values above are in hex we have:

Period = ( 2 ^ (1*2) ) * (102+1) * 0.1 uS = 41.2 uS
Frequency = 1 / 41.2 uS * (1000000 uSec / 1 Sec) = 24272 Hz

And that agrees with the "Got carrier..." response from the MCEUSB device, however... on Page 88 of the specification we have:

> "The following table describes CP and CC values for periods from 16 &#956;sec to 34 &#956;sec. This covers the required range of 30 to 60 KHz. Initial values of CP and CC should be 1 and 66 (37037 Hz), respectively."

And a carrier frequency of 37 Khz would be more "normal"/default for an IR remote (~36 Khz typically, yes?), but in order to get that frequency we need 66 decimal, not 0x66 hex (which is 102).

So, is this a bug, or just a big misunderstanding?  I'm going to guess that the device did not power-up/boot at 24 Khz.  And I'm going to guess that the Pace DC50X/Motorola DTA100 won't listen to anything at that frequency (?).

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-11
This doesn't fix the problem, but is a legitimate bug, and affects the debug messages for anyone trying to figure this out -- add the following line:

		case MCE_RSP_EQIRNUMPORTS:

immediately after this switch case grouping (circa line #505 in mceusb.c):

	case MCE_CMD_PORT_IR:
		switch (subcmd) {
		case MCE_CMD_UNKNOWN:
		case MCE_RSP_EQIRCFS:
		case MCE_RSP_EQIRTIMEOUT:
		case MCE_RSP_EQIRRXCFCNT:

Fixes wrongly reported MCE_RSP_EQIRNUMPORTS rx data/length of 2, should be 4

Edit: Just to clarify, the datasize = 2; line is correct because it adds that to the Command and Sub-command bytes.  The problem was the default is datasize = 0, and 2 + 0 = 2 (wrong total length for MCE_RSP_EQIRNUMPORTS), should be 2 + 2 = 4.

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-11
Around line #461 in mceusb.c there is this definition:

static char DEVICE_RESUME[]	= {MCE_CMD_NULL, MCE_CMD_PORT_SYS,
				   MCE_CMD_RESUME};

which would produce a three byte message: 0x00 0xFF 0xAA

Again referring to the documentation (see Comment #18 above), page 88 defining the CMD_RESUME, it should be:

static char DEVICE_RESUME[]	= {MCE_CMD_PORT_SYS, MCE_CMD_RESUME};

which would produce a two byte message: 0xFF 0xAA

This problem can be seen in my previous dmesg output (Comment #15 above) as:

92. [10146.244473] mceusb 6-2:1.0: tx data: 00 ff aa (length=3)

followed by:

98. [10146.261440] mceusb 6-2:1.0: rx data: 00 ff (length=2)
99. [10146.261445] mceusb 6-2:1.0: Unknown command 0x00 0xff

Fixing this makes dmesg a whole lot more exciting, like something started working, but I am not an expert, and I have not tried blasting yet...

---

### Post by betolley on 2013-04-12
Have you tried yet? Very excited.

> **billstei said:**
> Around line #461 in mceusb.c there is this definition:

static char DEVICE_RESUME[]	= {MCE_CMD_NULL, MCE_CMD_PORT_SYS,
				   MCE_CMD_RESUME};

which would produce a three byte message: 0x00 0xFF 0xAA

Again referring to the documentation (see Comment #18 above), page 88 defining the CMD_RESUME, it should be:

static char DEVICE_RESUME[]	= {MCE_CMD_PORT_SYS, MCE_CMD_RESUME};

which would produce a two byte message: 0xFF 0xAA

This problem can be seen in my previous dmesg output (Comment #15 above) as:

92. [10146.244473] mceusb 6-2:1.0: tx data: 00 ff aa (length=3)

followed by:

98. [10146.261440] mceusb 6-2:1.0: rx data: 00 ff (length=2)
99. [10146.261445] mceusb 6-2:1.0: Unknown command 0x00 0xff

Fixing this makes dmesg a whole lot more exciting, like something started working, but I am not an expert, and I have not tried blasting yet...

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-12
The number of transmit ports (and receive ports) in the MCEUSB device is determined by issuing the following IR_PORT sub-command:

CMD_GETIRNUMPORTS (which is 0x16)

and results in the full command (see pages 94-95 in the documentation):

0x9F 0x16

This request goes out every time I reload (rmmod/modprobe) the mceusb module, however I do not always get a response, which is 4 bytes that look like:

0x9F 0x16 TXC RXC

where TXC is the number of transmit ports the device has, and RXC is the number of receive ports the device has (see pages 104-105).  The problem is that I don't always get a response, for example in my dmesg output (Comment #15, above) the command (request) on line 45 is followed by the response on line 46 (incorrectly reported as 2 bytes, but it was 4), but then the second module unload/load the request goes out on line 109, and is followed by a whole bunch of silence.  The key seems to be that on line 106 the device was offended by what was said to it, and shut itself down:

[10146.292392] mceusb 6-2:1.0: Unknown command 0x9f 0x05

There is a command going out called "CMD_UNKNOWN2", that is defined in mceusb.c circa line #142 as:

#define MCE_CMD_UNKNOWN2	0x05	/* Unknown */

and the full command and sub-command defined circa line#467 as (with line#91 #define MCE_CMD_PORT_IR		0x9f	/* IR-related cmd/rsp */ ):

static char GET_UNKNOWN2[]	= {MCE_CMD_PORT_IR, MCE_CMD_UNKNOWN2};

In other words 0x9f 0x05.  This command is sent out circa line #1138 (with comment on #1137) as:

	/* unknown what this one actually returns... */
	mce_async_out(ir, GET_UNKNOWN2, sizeof(GET_UNKNOWN2));

It is hard to say why all this was done, but if I had to guess, it is either dealing with a "quirk" in certain hardware (in which case it should be the exception to the rule, not the rule), or someone looked at what MS Windows does when it talks to an MCEUSB device, and was trying to duplicate it without knowing why or what it does.

For all we know it tells the device to switch to 24 Khz, turn off all transmit ports, never talk to anyone ever again, and laugh hysterically about it.

jk

I will try removing line #1138 and see what happens.  Unfortunately my cable company has also gone biserk and with it the DTA100, so I still can't test the blasting...

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-12
My greatly expanded debug info: [dmesg mceusb debug info]("http://pastebin.ca/2357655")

The biggest problem seems to be the NULL bytes ahead of the CMD header that confuse the command parser.  The question is whether these NULLs are coming from some USB sub-system code in Linux, or from the MCE USB device.  In any event it's a big mess because of it, and a proper workaround would no doubt "fix" it.

Also for the record the term "cabled" is indeed used to indicate whether an emitter is physically plugged in and can be sensed by the device -- see page 104 of the documentation regarding the VDH byte.

Edit: Note that I increased the msleep() values from 10 mS to 100 mS to (temporarily) avoid race conditions/problems.  The driver runs very slowly this way...

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-12
Major bug, circa line #495 in mceusb.c needs:

		case MCE_RSP_GETPORTSTATUS:
			datasize = 5;
			break;

Should help the parser a bit.

Edit: Sorry, datasize = 5, not 7.

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-13
I probably won't work on the MCEUSB (and code) much this weekend, but I plan to get back to it on Monday.  As far as whether there is any real progress, what I can say is that using the "zero 250 710" DTA100 lirc configuration I can reliably get the emitter LED to flash, including multiple long-term flashes when using the irsend SEND_START directive, and I can now get a frequency value back from the device of 37037 Hz (rather than 24 Khz).  Whether that is the correct frequency for the DTA100 is debatable (anyone know? -- if I had a scope I could monitor the official/actual DTA100 Remote output), and the DTA100 does not flash its own LED, so I don't think I have a real "fix" yet.  Nevertheless I also want to reduce the changes that I made to mceusb.c down to the essential ones, and generate a patch file so others can easily test with STBs/IR-whatevers and maybe they will have success now that the parser isn't losing its mind and/or the MCEUSB isn't shutting down because the driver is talking trash.  I might even throw the "UNKNOWN2" command back in just to see if that makes any difference.

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-13
This web page: [Interpreting Decoded IR Signals]("http://www.hifi-remote.com/johnsfine/DecodeIR.html") lists the XMP protocol at 38 Khz (in other words the Pace DC50X/Motorola DTA100 are sensitive to that frequency, in theory).  So the nearest transmitter frequency for the MCEUSB device (pages 88-89) would be 38461 Khz using CP and CC values of 1 and 64.  Not too far from 37037 but I also read that XMP is picky (?) so what is "far"?.  So in the lirc config file we would add the line:

frequency  38461

somewhere before "begin codes" (I put it right after aeps).

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-13
Looks like there is some work being done by various real actual devs, and [this patch]("https://patchwork.kernel.org/patch/2061321/") and in particular these lines of the patch:

+	{ USB_DEVICE(VENDOR_FINTEK, 0x5168),
+	  .driver_info = MCE_GEN2_TX_INV },

determine whether each transmit port is enabled, therefore the Fintek has these enable bits inverted (and shifted? see line #875 in mceusb.c " << 1") and turning them on actually turns them off.  Why I am getting flashes on the emitter LED with the port supposedly turned off is a mystery.

Edit: and this looks even more important:

> This transceiver expects the set IR TX ports and IR data as seperate packets, like the Windows driver does."

+	/* Send the set TX ports command */
+	mce_async_out(ir, cmdbuf, cmdcount);
+	cmdcount = 0;
+

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-13
All the latest patches from the real devs (like the one above) can be found in mceusb.c in the mainline 3.9-rc6 kernel over at [The Kernel Archive]("https://www.kernel.org/"), and it compiles OK in Ubuntu 13.04 Beta2+, but I tried blasting with theirs and I still can't talk to the DTA100.  Comparing theirs to mine, they have not found some of the bugs I did, so my plan is to merge the two code sets and keep trying.

---

### Post by betolley on 2013-04-15
Any luck after you added your patches?
> **billstei said:**
> All the latest patches from the real devs (like the one above) can be found in mceusb.c in the mainline 3.9-rc6 kernel over at [The Kernel Archive]("https://www.kernel.org/"), and it compiles OK in Ubuntu 13.04 Beta2+, but I tried blasting with theirs and I still can't talk to the DTA100.  Comparing theirs to mine, they have not found some of the bugs I did, so my plan is to merge the two code sets and keep trying.

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-04-15
Still no response from the DTA100, but I can very reliably flash the transmit LED with both SEND_ONCE and SEND_START irsend directives (and do a stop with SEND_STOP).  I have every reason to believe that transmitting is working, but either the data sent is corrupt, or the DTA100 has changed since the lirc config file was created (the one by Kirk Bocek).  In the mean time I have contacted one of the mceusb.c devs, and he has taught me how to be a real dev, so look for my bug fixes in upcoming (development) kernels, probably 3.9-ish.  I can also verify that the "frequency" option in the lirc config file (for example dta100.conf) will have no effect as the mceusb module code currently stands, but that is another fix/patch I plan to submit.

---

### Post by betolley on 2013-05-14
Any news on this?

---

### Post by billstei on 2013-05-14
I hate to admit it, but I gave up trying to get IR blasting to work, but I still need IR receiving to work.  Technically receiving does work, but I know there are bugs in the driver and I'm not sure it's stable, so I'm still not sure what route I will take...

FWIW I switched to using an HDHomeRun Prime with a CableCard rather than try to IR blast my cable company's Set-top Box, and this is working very well, once I figured out how to configure the channels (with help from Bonte and larsolav) here: [HDHomeRun Prime Setup]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2142606")

---

