---
title: "Need Australian &quot;shepherd&quot; EPG Guru Help"
date: 2014-05-15
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by gga96 on 2014-05-15
I am in the process of installing 14.04 64 bit.  

The result of running shepherd did not show correct data for "ChannelNumber/ChannelName" instead it looks like the channel frequency was used as the "ChannelNumber", e.g. 659 ABC, 2339 7mate etc. 
The correct data is 2 ABC and 60 7mate. 
These strange channel numbers come from the myth Channel Editor -> Channel Scanner and may not be a shepherd problem.

This makes a mess of the EPG screens but the program data looks fine.

I have tried to contact shepherd direct but could not make contact.

I hope you can help.

Glen

---

### Post by blm-ubunet on 2014-05-15
This may or may not give you some clues..

xmltv:
The supported grabbers are run automatically by mythfilldatabase.
Each channel has a "xmltv id" field (manually added in dvb land).
Each grabber has a configuration file (list of enabled xmltv ids).
The channel number means little..controls order in programme guide.

shepherd:
mythfilldatabase auto-run is disabled.
runs when it wants to
does not use xmltv ids
manipulates DB by running mythfilldatabase against a (dynamic) source file.

I would guess that "shepherd" has a configuration file that contains a channel list complete with channel number.
I would guess you can change the channel number to anything (unique non-repeating numeric).

---

### Post by gga96 on 2014-05-15
I am now not sure the problem is with shepherd.

From memory when configuring the BE, at the point of "Channel Edit"  which follows the "Channel Scan" operation, the corrupt channel numbers already existed and must have been generated by the scan process.  Shepherd echos these values when perl shepherd was run.

I have looked at into mythconverg, there are 5 tables associated with "channel..." 3 of which are "channelscan..." tables. It may be possible to correct the problem here but I do not know the design structure and the side effects imposed.

I need more knowledge to go done this path.

Glen

---

### Post by blm-ubunet on 2014-05-16
A scan on dvb-t multiplex(here) results in odd/unhelpful/annoying channel numbers. I believe they are suggested in the stream.
If you insert the channels manually you can change them.
AFAIK They just need to be unique.

I have always changed the channel numbers so to list then in my preferred order.
Easiest way is by mythweb.

---

### Post by gga96 on 2014-05-16
I could not resolve the issues, I am in the process of re-installing. and using the Insert manually option to get the require result.

This problem is odd because 12.04 32bit got it right.  I do not know what has changed.

Thank you.

Cheers Glen

---

### Post by blm-ubunet on 2014-05-16
Instead of reinstalling (mad windows idea born from total lack of logging & stdout/stderr) you could (using mythtv-setup) have tried deleting all tuners on all hosts & then reinstated the tuner card.
You can delete all channels with channel editor & re-scan..

Those channel numbers are most likely the suggested values signalled in the transport streams.
You are scanning dvb-t or dvb-s ?

Did you try changing the channel number (& hitting "save" button) in mythweb?
You could do this in mythtv-setup channel editor (last or 2nd last menu option/screen)
Mythweb is easier but might not have any checking for "uniqueness".

I have always changed/rearranged channel numbers to rank into sensible order.
Many channels are borderline to need setting to invisible.

---

### Post by gga96 on 2014-05-16
Scanning dvd-t.

Prior to re-install I deleted all channels, rescanned, Insert Manually applying cancel or channel numbers as desired, tv_grab_au --configure, but the EPG data did not remap to the re-assigned channels. Tried several other things to no avail.

I am new to Ubuntu and there is a lot I am unaware of, but I am thinking of getting a linux development machine and compiling in the future, it is a steep learning curve.

Glen

---

### Post by blm-ubunet on 2014-05-16
AFAIK
Shepherd is not xmltv compliant or supported..
Shepherd manipulates mythfilldatabase to work on local files..
Mythfilldatabase does not operate automatically (under MBE control) & does **not** use xmltv grabber scripts. 

You must select "**no** grabber" with Shepherd..

xmltv grabbers:
I believe shepherd replaces or supplies a different tv_grab_au for its own purpose.
tv_grab_au --configure will generate a channel listing file (for that grabber) containing xmltv ids that are used to match any downloaded (OTA or net) xml data files.
You can edit to enable/disable channels.

Unfortunately the xmltv ids are not populated by scan process (for dvb).
You have to enter all the xmltv ids..PITA
AIUI you **have to** manually enter the xmltv ids for shepherd process.
[http://svn.whuffy.com/wiki/Installation](http://svn.whuffy.com/wiki/Installation)

Because of that  (xmltv trouble) I try to avoid rescanning like the plague but a recent frequency restacking forced a re-scan of existing transports with new transports enabled.

In NZ you can extract MHEG-5 EPG from OTA dvb-t (into an xml file) & use MFD directly on this file.

Because dvb xmltv ids is a PITA there is a special database backup/restore option just for xmltv ids..
The channel editor does have an very helpful auto-complete (with up down arrows) for the xmltv id field.

---

### Post by gga96 on 2014-05-16
Thanks for your help with shepherd.

I now believe believe the original problem with channel numbers was not an issue with shepherd but one with myth channel scan.  This was a robust operation in 12.04. I do not know the reason why but I did observed that table channelscan_channel field chan_num was blank.

I am not in a position to pursue the issue at the moment.

---

