---
title: "10.04 + Nvidia 6150 - install lockup/graphics corruption fix"
date: 2010-05-26
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by SMANN on 2010-05-26
My problem and solution:
 
  10.04 clean install attempt results in hard lock accompanied by black screen and/or graphics corruption shortly after booting the install cd, while 'mythbuntu' animated progress logo displayed in center of screen.  Solution to this varies somewhat on graphics card in question.  In my case hardware is Nvidia Geforce 6150 as the integrated chip on an Asus M2NPV-VM.  I'm summarizing this info from Ubuntu 10.04 bug threads as no one of them contained exactly the steps I needed. 

 1. Boot from install CD, hit any key during initial loading screen (keyboard and person icon at bottom of screen) to bring up install menu. 

2. Highlight 2nd option(Install) 

3. press F6 key then ESC to close resulting popup menu.  This should leave your cursor blinking at the end of the startup options command line.  Delete the last two values 'quiet splash' and replace with 'xforcevesa' (no quotes).   

4. Hit ENTER.  Install should proceed. 

5. You will receive a warning that you are operating in low graphics mode.  Accept the option to continue working in low graphics mode for this session. Launch the mythbuntu installer on the desktop.  Select the Nvidia proprietary graphics driver when given the opportunity in the installer.  

6. Once the install has finished, reboot.  Grab the install CD if it is automatically ejected and hit ENTER to complete the reboot. 

7. The first boot will fail to launch X and you will be left at a login prompt.  Log in and sudo edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf.  In the Device section, replace the value of 'vesa' with 'nv'.  Save and reboot. 

8. You should now be able to directly boot into a gui and log in at reduced resolution. You will likely receive a crash report of a failed program but you can safely ignore this for the moment.   

9. The very first thing you should do is apply all the available system updates.  Included should be an updated version of the Nvidia proprietary drivers; at this time that is ver 195. 

10. Check in System>Hardware Drivers and make sure the Nvidia Current driver is activated.  You can confirm this also in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.  'nv' should be replaced by 'nvidia'.  Reboot.  It wouldn't hurt to now go back and check that the most recent Current driver is activated in the Hardware Drivers panel.  You can also now fine tune the display settings with System>Nvidia X Server Settings utility and write the changes to the xorg.conf.  

note.  If at any time you get stuck at a login prompt instead of the gui you can always log in and change the Device section in /etc/X11/xorg.conf to 'nv' then reboot or restart X.  Once the latest Current driver is properly installed the Device section should read 'nvidia'.  

This is what worked for me, step by step.  YMMV.

reference: 
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs?Lucid8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs?Lucid8xxFreezes)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1463294](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1463294)

---

