---
title: "[8.04] Anyone got a Intel i945 working?"
date: 2008-04-08
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by TheSideways on 2008-04-08
Hi,
   I;m wondering if anyones got a i945 Intel gfx chipset working with 8.04. I've been having all sorts of problems with it.. I know it works because 7.10 worked just fine for me. =] 
  So, out of the box, I couldn't get the drivers to enable DRI. So I installed the drivers off of intel's website. After I figured out where the intel installer put the files and X expected them, I've tried both the 'intel' driver and the 'i810' driver. One of my main concerns is that XvMC seems broken; I get XVideo no motions compensation on display 0:0, etc.. and mplayer just refuses to use xvmc to play, says it can't init it. 
  I've tried many different options I've found in many different wiki's about many different topics( XvMC/Intel/Myth) and I havn't found a combo that works. Does anyone have a working xorg.conf I could take a look at?
  I don't have the logs with me now, but mythfrontend has also been throwing errors like 'cant init video buffers' and lots of audio buffer overruns and underruns. I thiking alsa's messed up too.. that's next on the list. But I also have a suspicion that they're both related..
Thanx,
Tim

---

### Post by arjay1 on 2008-04-09
Not at the mythbuntu machine right now but will put up a copy of my xorg.conf for you tomorrow.

---

### Post by arjay1 on 2008-04-10
OK - herewith my xorg.conf.  Couple of things to note. First, you'll see three mouse options.  I have been trying them all to try to get a MS mce keyboard mouse working.  No luck yet, but you can delete whichever sections you don't want.  

Second, note the driver "intel".  I previously had the i810 driver in place, but had a few problems with it - not least that it would not display more than 1280x1024.  I need 1920x1080 for my Sony Bravia 40" LCD screen.  The i810 was auto-selected by Mythbuntu Control Centre - no good.  The intel driver works just fine.  Obviously, I have the onboard chip preselected in BIOS.

You will have to change the display modes to suit your monitor, but I am sure you know how to do that, judging from your post.  If you want anything else just shout (very loud because I live in Spain <g>)

 ```
Section "ServerLayout"
  Identifier "XFree86 Configured"
  Screen 0 "Screen0" 0 0
#  InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
  InputDevice "PS/2 Mouse" "CorePointer"
# InputDevice "USB Mouse" "CorePointer"
# InputDevice "Serial Mouse" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
  Option "AllowMouseOpenFail" "true"
EndSection

Section "Files"
# Xorg 7.0 font paths

FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
EndSection

Section "Module"

EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier "Keyboard0"
  Driver "keyboard"
  Option "CoreKeyboard"
  Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
  Option "XkbLayout" "gb"
#  Option "XKbOptions" ""
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier "Serial Mouse"
  Driver "mouse"
  Option  "Protocol" "Microsoft"
  Option  "Device" "/dev/ttyS0"
  Option  "Emulate3Buttons" "false"
  Option  "Emulate3Timeout" "70"
EndSection



Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier "PS/2 Mouse"
  Driver "mouse"
  Option "Protocol" "auto"
  Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
  Option "Emulate3Buttons" "false"
  Option "Emulate3Timeout" "70"
  Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
  Option "Buttons" "5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier "USB Mouse"
  Driver "mouse"
  Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
  Option "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
  Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
  Option "Buttons" "5"
EndSection


Section "Monitor"
  Identifier "Monitor0"
  VendorName "unknown"
  ModelName "unknown"
  Option "DPMS" "true"
  HorizSync    67.5
  VertRefresh  60

EndSection



Section "Device"
  Identifier  "Card0"
  Driver "intel"
  BoardName "unknown"
  Screen 0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
  Identifier "Screen0"
  Device "Card0"
  Monitor "Monitor0"
  DefaultColorDepth 24
  
  SubSection "Display"
  Depth 8
  Modes "1920x1080" "1280x1024" "1024x760""800x600"
  EndSubSection
  SubSection "Display"
  Depth 15
  Modes "1920x1080""1280x1024" "1024x760""800x600"
  EndSubSection
  SubSection "Display"
  Depth 16
  Modes "1920x1080""1280x1024" "1024x760" "800x600"
  EndSubSection
  SubSection "Display"
  Depth 24
  Modes "1920x1080""1280x1024" "1024x760" "800x600"
  EndSubSection
  SubSection "Display"
  Depth 32
  Modes "1920x1080""1280x1024" "1024x760""800x600"
  EndSubSection

EndSection

 
Section "Extensions"
  Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-04-10
> Hi,
   I;m wondering if anyones got a i945 Intel gfx chipset working with 8.04. I've been having all sorts of problems with it.. I know it works because 7.10 worked just fine for me. =] 


There is a known issue between EXA/XAA acceleration for "intel" driver in 8.04. In gutsy the default is XAA, but in Hardy it is EXA. To make EXA acceleration work properly in Hardy, you have to perform some more operations, I cannot remember what.

So your options; either add the ```
AccelMethod "XAA"
``` line in the /etc/X11/xorg.conf's "Configured Device" for your display card (In hardy, not all options are displayed in the /etcX11/xorg.conf, but any change from the default values made in the xorg.conf will be taken into account).

OR

Search for "AccelMethod EXA" "intel" "hardy heron"

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-04-10
> Search for "AccelMethod EXA" "intel" "hardy heron"

Took my own advice; landed up with post #12 on this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=672314&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=672314&page=2)

---

### Post by laga on 2008-04-10
Yeah, the "MigrationHeuristic" option made a big difference on my ATI based setup with EXA.

---

### Post by TheSideways on 2008-04-11
thanx all for the great info .. one thing I also found that is after I downloaded and compiled the newest drivers from intellinuxgraphics.org I got the man page for intel, and that told me one key... is that DRI is DISABLED by default. So I got that going. But hasn't really helped. I have to try the other options posted here.. I figured it had to be a 7.10 v 804 problem/ something they changed.

---

### Post by laga on 2008-04-11
I can only offer one piece of advice.. you probably don't want to hear it, though.

Remove every piece of the intel driver you installed from source from your system. Even better, reinstall the whole box.

It's impossible to help you if you randomly replace core parts of your system with unsupported source code (which is not even under control of the package manager). Your system is in an inconsistent state and nobody knows what's going on.

Reinstall and then work with the X guys in Ubuntu or ask in this forum to get it working. Post your xorg.conf and Xorg.0.log.

---

### Post by TheSideways on 2008-04-11
I don't mind hearing that .. and I understand what your saying about the 'standard' packages, but maybe I'm barking up the wrong tree if that's how the whole Ubuntu community feels. I'm a Solaris admin by trade, and usually I use slackware for my boxes at home. (File server; router..) What I liked about Mythbuntu was it had all the myth stuff wrapped up in a pritty package and installed off one CD. It's nice to have a full backup so you can wipe out the box, untar a file or reload a cd and get a front end working again. The problem I'm now in, is that none of the Mythbuntu's worked off the disk for me. 7.10 Needed an update to fix a problem with recordings. Then it worked. But now the updates have goten updated, and now even a 7.10 box doesn't work. It looks to be in the gfx drivers. One of the reasons I like linux is because the source is avalable. Like these intel drivers. I've been all over this forum and others trying to figure out the DRI stuff. Not until I got looking at the code did I see that DRI is disabled by default. Most other things I'd hack the code to enable it by default to keep my xorg.conf cleaner. Just the way I work. For me, these forums are usually a last resort. By the time you find me on here, I've searched the forums, the internet; recompiled the latest stable release; then the newest CVS or whatever CRS they use and tried them. I hunt down error logs and really do try it for myself. I just don't give up when package manager can't find what I'm looking for.

---

### Post by laga on 2008-04-12
Sure, i build a lot of things myself, but I usually try to use packages whenever I can to keep my system clean.

If you feel like hacking on the intel driver, you can run ```
apt-get source xserver-xorg-video-intel
``` and make your changes. Update debian/changelog using ```
dch -v your-new-version
``` and use ```
debuild
``` to rebuild the package.

It might also be possible to get a newer package from Debian and rebuild it on your Ubuntu box.


I'm really surprised that X/DRI doesn't work for you. My laptop also has an Intel chipset and everything is working out of the box - it could probably use some tweaks, but it works.

If you look at debian/patches, you can find all the patches applied to the intel driver. Things like 05_intel_exa_force_greedy.patch make a huge difference with regards to performance.


I'm not saying you shouldn't tweak your system the way you want, I'm just saying that modifications like just installing drivers from source make your system unsupportable because the driver probably doesn't have all the tweaks found in Ubuntu, and it might be outdated (unless you got it from git) and whatnot.

IMHO, with problems like this, you better try to stay as close to the default packages as possible, raising bug reports if something doesn't work and just patching the default packages... says the guy who has to patch his ATI driver :)

Regards,
Michael

---

