---
title: "8.04 Volume control doesn't work"
date: 2008-03-22
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Lem on 2008-03-22
Might be a pulseaudio issue I guess, but the volume control doesn't work in 8.04. I usually have my amp set to a default level and use the mythbuntu volume control with my remote (this worked fine in 7.10)
I get full volume whatever the level on the OSD says.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-03-22
Do you have pulseaudio installed?

Are you using spdif?

---

### Post by Lem on 2008-03-25
It's just a default 8.04 install with a NovaT DVB-T card. I'm using an nforce 430/6150 motherboard, which has been running very well on 7.10

No SPDIF, just the normal line-out. I confess that I haven't opened up the mixer and has a good look to se if there's anything obvious, but it seems odd that it worked fine in 7.10, but not in Hardy.

---

### Post by reynold on 2008-03-25
Same problem here, completely different enivornment, worked under 7.1

---

### Post by fuchur on 2008-03-25
I had a similar issue after and update of mythbuntu.

I solved it by changing some option inmythfrontend: utilities/setup-setup-general. There basically made I some random changes on the pagewhith lots of mixer settings- from PCM to master and from /dev/mixer to alsa, and _after restarting mythfrontend_ it works. I suspet its the PCM to master change that actually did the trick.

Hope this works for you as well

---

### Post by terrax on 2008-03-26
I have the same problem.

I even can't run alsamixer:

```

$ alsamixer

alsamixer: function snd_mixer_load failed: No such file or directory

```

It seems its known bug:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/192382](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/192382)

---

### Post by Adnarim on 2008-03-30
Any workaround until now?

---

### Post by Teamgeist on 2008-04-16
Experiencing a similar problem.
I cannot control volume with the remote of my Nova T-500.
The volume osd is shown and the throbber moves, but the volume is not actually increasing/decreasing.

However, setting the device to /dev/dsp in the mythtv-frontend controls lets me mute the sound just fine, but not increasing or decrease the volume.

It also works fine (increasing/decreasing) while streaming online-radio or watching trailers in "media->play online streams" inside the mythtv-frontend.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by GordonEndersby on 2008-04-25
As per fucher, had the same problem.

Under setup/General/Audio
Changed Mixer device to Alsa:default and Mixer controls to PCM.
Now working can change volume and mute sound.

Thanks

Gordon


> **fuchur said:**
> I had a similar issue after and update of mythbuntu.

I solved it by changing some option inmythfrontend: utilities/setup-setup-general. There basically made I some random changes on the pagewhith lots of mixer settings- from PCM to master and from /dev/mixer to alsa, and _after restarting mythfrontend_ it works. I suspet its the PCM to master change that actually did the trick.

Hope this works for you as well

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2008-04-26
Very likely related to this bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/192382](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/192382)

---

### Post by whosmatt on 2008-04-26
I had the same problem; this fixed it.

> **GordonEndersby said:**
> As per fucher, had the same problem.

Under setup/General/Audio
Changed Mixer device to Alsa:default and Mixer controls to PCM.
Now working can change volume and mute sound.

Thanks

Gordon

---

### Post by adjman on 2011-06-18
This solved my issue with MythBuntu - set to Master and all works as expected now, both Mute and Volume controls :)

---

