---
title: "[8.04] The file for this recording is empty."
date: 2008-06-25
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by ghuber on 2008-06-25
So I imported a TV show into Myth using the command:

myth.rebuilddatabase.pl --ext avi --dir /recordings

This has worked very well in the past for me.  After importing this TV show it shows up in the recordings list.  The small preview window plays the TV show.  I can watch the entire show using flv in Mythweb.  I can even open the program in the /recordings directory using VLC.  

But it gives me an error when I try to play it in Myth, telling me that "The file for this recording is empty"  when it clearly is NOT.  The last three episodes of this show have all done the same thing.

I ran a check of the DB with

mysqlcheck -r -umythtv -ppassword mythconverg

with no change.  And I don't see any errors show up in the log files???  HELP!



[IMG]http://tinyurl.com/3vtcnq[/IMG]

---

### Post by boblablah on 2008-06-26
I have managed to do something similar... but in a negative way.  First off, my mythtv instance records every ouce of live tv it can display... i think for timeshifting but not sure.  

these files are all stored in my system at /var/lib/mythtv/recordings ....  which fills every few days if live tv is left running.

So based on the idea that I never scheduled anything to record, i wandered on into that directory, and emptied it.

everything ever seen on live tv still shows up in my list even though i've run the mysqlcheck and what not...

I'm starting to think i'll need to empty a table manually to get these to disappear.  and of course, the answer when any of these are selected is that "the file for this recording is empty"

any ideas on a shortcut to resync the entries in the DB with what actually exists on the filesystem?

---

### Post by zeus77 on 2008-07-11
I have the exact same problem as ghuber.  Anyone have any ideas??

---

### Post by shubbs on 2008-09-30
I had the same issue. After looking carefully at the "recorded" table in the mythconverg database, I found a fix that worked for me:

The script myth.rebuilddatabase.pl inserted "localhost" into the "hostname" field, instead of the correct hostname. Changing the hostname to match the other recordings did the trick.

Use mysql or install phpmyadmin (I use phpmyadmin) to look at the mythconverg database.

---

### Post by foxbuntu on 2008-09-30
I suggest you just put them into videos and let the frontend handle the DB items with Video manager. Much safer and faster.

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2008-09-30
Hi,

Try downloading the newest version (From last weekend) and use
mysqlcheck -a
That should catch the host name problem.

The -r options just checks recordings in the DB for the host specified (seeklist/commflag etc).
The -f option checks the files in the fs against the DB, using the storage groups to find where files are.


Regards
Ian Dobson

---

