---
title: "12.04 Mythfilldatabase EXTREAMLY slow"
date: 2012-05-30
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Kr0nZ on 2012-05-30
Hey all

So today I decided to try get my mythbuntu 12.04 working. I've been running mythbuntu 10.10 previously.

But instead of backing up everything and reinstalling, I wanted to start clean.

So after setting up my tuner card I had to set up my video sources and channels,
I use SchedulesDirect to get my epg data.

So I after enter my SD login info, it takes almost half an hour to get the lineup info from SD.
Then in the next step when importing the channels again it takes almost another half hour.

I never thought much of it until I it came time to exit mythsetup and run mythfilldatabase,
now its download the EPG data from SD but its take HALF AN HOUR between EACH DAY.

At this rate it'll take more than 7 hours to download the 14 days of EPG data.

I rebooted and tried my 10.10 install
ran mythfilldatabase, it is working fine there, it downloads fast so its not an SD issue.

---

### Post by nickrout on 2012-05-30
There are other threads here that deal with solutions to this, i suggest you try a search :)

---

### Post by Kr0nZ on 2012-05-30
Thanks,
[I found the solution here.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11918589&postcount=35")

The issue seems to be with a change to mysql and the way myth handles it, definitely a bug by the sounds of it.

Well anyway to fix it
I added to following line to '/etc/fstab'
```
tmpfs   /tmp   tmpfs   nodev,nosuid    0 0
```

and then added the following to '/etc/mysql/conf.d/mythtv.cnf'
```
default_storage_engine=MyISAM
```

rebooted now mythfilldatabase is now working like before

---

### Post by anonymousdog on 2012-05-30
Has anyone filed this as a bug (b/c it definitely is)?  This should be fixed upstream as this solution is a horrible hack that basically reverts MySQL to a poorer performing configuration (and may lead to problems if mythconverg ever adds permanent table(s).

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2012-05-31
> **anonymousdog said:**
> Has anyone filed this as a bug (b/c it definitely is)?  This should be fixed upstream as this solution is a horrible hack that basically reverts MySQL to a poorer performing configuration (and may lead to problems if mythconverg ever adds permanent table(s).

The fix is in upstream as of May 28th. It should be in our latest builds.

---

### Post by anonymousdog on 2012-05-31
> **tgm4883 said:**
> The fix is in upstream as of May 28th. It should be in our latest builds.
Awesome!  Thanks, TGM.  :guitar:

---

