---
title: "Cannot connect to mythtv-backend from XBMC Gotham"
date: 2014-05-27
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by mike_d2 on 2014-05-27
I have installed Mythbuntu 14.04 and updated the packages causing the mcc Mysql error to go away. I have gone through all of the mythtv setup steps successfully I think. I have an HDHomerun Prime, and it seemed to go smoothly. My tuners were recognized, schedules direct downloaded, I was able to set input sources and get a start channel etc. I believe that mythtv-backend and mysql server are both running. However, I still cannot connect to the backend through XBMC Gotham (wincrap). I have mythtv-backend and mysql accepting remote connections. I left the username alone, and put the password I found in /etc/mythtv/mysql.conf in as the passwor din XBMC and I still can't connect. Any ideas?

---

### Post by aelfric55 on 2014-05-28
Have you been able to connect to this backend from any dedicated remote mythfrontend? (Leaving aside that even the Windows versions of mythfrontend tend to be a smoother client for mythbackend than is XBMC)  Are you actually certain the backend is running? Are mysql (and mythbackend) running on a static IP address that is not localhost (127.0.0.1), since localhost won't work for this? A command along the lines of ```
pgrep mythbackend
``` should return a process id if mythbackend is running.

If the backend is in fact running, and a dedicated mythfrontend on your remote machine can talk to it, then you can start worrying about XBMC. Prior failures in XBMC talking to mythbackend and their causes should be detailed in the xbmc log, which on a Linux machine would be under the /.xbmc directory in your home user's directory. Don't know where it gets written to on a Windows box. In any event, there are three ways that XBMC can talk to a mythbackend. The first two do not involve XBMC's quirky PVR client, and are mostly useful for watching existing mythtv recordings or watching livetv.

1. If your backend is running a UPnP server, XBMC can connect to this server via "Videos" --> "Add Videos" -->"Browse", where one option will be UPnP and will discover any UPnP media server including a mythtv backend on your subnet (UPnP won't route, in the event the UPnP server is on some other subnet on your network, your XBMC won't see it)
2. You can direct XBMC to the static IP of your mythbackend machine the old-fashioned way (even through a router) by following XBMC's brief guide here: [http://wiki.xbmc.org/?title=MythTV](http://wiki.xbmc.org/?title=MythTV) Section 3 is the meat of the matter. This is the method I still tend to use, because I have found with XBMC's current dedicated PVR client addon, it takes many minutes upon starting XBMC for the client to load my mythtv database prior to starting the PVR client (maybe because I have about 3000 recordings sitting on the backend)  ...and then half the time it hangs.
3. The dedicated PVR client. You mentioned configuring it with username "mythtv" and the mysql password generated by your mysql install. Did you also enter the ip address of the running mythbackend? Do either of the other methods of connecting to a mythbackend work, but just not the dedicated PVR client?

---

### Post by mike_d2 on 2014-05-28
Thanks for the response. It was actually that the IPV6 settings needed to be blank. Because I don't use IPV6, I didn't think it mattered. Now it's working great. Thank you guys so much for your patience with a semi n00b. Now, I would like to setup so that NOTHING updates or changes on me ;-)

---

