---
title: "11.04 on older hardware"
date: 2011-05-24
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by blkbx on 2011-05-24
Hi,
I've installed mythbuntu 11.04on a pc that hard 10.04 on it.
I've been unable to log into it. My moniter just tells me to reconfig to a range that it can't display.
I've tried reinstalling using a log on screen but again I get the same error on the display. 
I can't change the display because it the only that I have which uses a vga output.
Also is there a work around for the install bug where you can't change to the partition that you want.
thanks

---

### Post by hazykid on 2011-05-24
Hi,
Which of the NVIDIA drivers did you install the  during the install of Mythbuntu?

I had a similar problem which I solved by running the install again, but choosing the Open Source NVIDIA drivers this time. When I got a working system, I went into the System Settings and updated the driver to NVIDIAs closed source driver.

Rich.

---

### Post by David Grigor on 2011-05-24
When your running older hardware with limited upgrade ability. 

I'd make a pretty strong case for leave running 10.04 LTS, then just keep upgrading Mythtv to the latest versions leaving the OS the same.

---

### Post by blkbx on 2011-05-24
Thanks for the replies.
I did chose the closed source nvidia drivers.I'll do another install and see how I go.
To be honest only the monitor has let me down as far a I see.  but to put another on in I have to find a graphic card which I probably have and pull the backend box out from under the house then put everything back. So not something I want to do on my weekend but my previous install bit the dust so I had no choice but to do a fresh install and I figured that I might as well upgrade while I at it. So I'll give 11.04 one more chance then back to 10.04.
Again thanks for your replies

---

