---
title: "12.04 ubuntu amd64 w/mythtv can't watch live tv &amp; no recordings"
date: 2014-01-06
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by mcapaldo on 2014-01-06
my rig is

AMD Quad Core 3.2GHz
2 GM RAM
DVD Rom
ubuntu 12.04 AMD64 bitinstall
mythttv loaded on top of that with myhthbuntu control center.
1 HVr-2250 tuner
2 pvr-500 tuner

all worked locally on new install (I complete fubared my old working install trying to update to new mythtv 27 fm 24).  

All recordings are over gigabit network on another pc ujsing ubuntu 12.04 server, using samba shares.  

1. I copied etc/fstab settings over
2. made /mnt/mythtv folder
3. made /root/.smbcredentials and chmod'ed it
4. Made sure same IP address, dns, netmask was used.
5. ran sudo apt-get install samba smbfs (did not configure conf files)
6. ram sudo mount -a, then mount and shares show upp.
7. opened mythtv backend and changed all storage dir's from /var/lib/mythtv/ to /mnt/mythtv/ (basically deleted /var/lib and replaced with mnt.
8. banced cried about 2 new missing directories (streaming and another one so I made them on the server).
9. went into mythtv frontend setup and changed video paths to /mnt/mythtv where needed.

Now I try to run live tvand it gives a quick black screen and goes back to the main menu.

Also no recordings are found.  It did record on local drive before I cahnged all the paths around.  (they are still on server over network I looked).

I think its someing silly stupid like a permissions error, sadly I did not write it down the last time I did this on old ubuntu 10.10.

Now I checked and ther user is part of mythtv group, and is same user as before.  

What am I missing????

I got live to to work by coping over the old smb.conf file and restarting samba service.

Still no recordings showing, using M does not allow me to re-scan recordings like it does in videos.  

Any ideas?

---

### Post by scstanton1337 on 2014-01-06
You'll want to take a look at your logs (/var/log/mythtv/), probably mythfrontend.log.  My guess is you have a video settings problem related to your video hardware and the use of VAAPI, VDPAU, Qt, OpenGL, or something related.

---

### Post by mcapaldo on 2014-01-07
Well I got recordings to work, after a reboot for some reason, don't know why.  SO I will mark this as solved.

---

