---
title: "HDMI + nvidia = No signal / SVideo + nvidia = Fine... Help?!?"
date: 2009-10-16
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by obscure411 on 2009-10-16
I already posted this in general help and multimedia, but haven't gotten any replies and thought this might be a better place to seek support. I hope posting this in two forums doesn't violate any tos. Apologies if it does, no harm intended.

I'm having an issue with my HTPC.

I have an Nvidia 7300GS card with an HDMI output on it. When installed, I can see the POST and bootup splash screen. What happens next depends on the driver: if I'm using the stock non-restricted driver, I get video -- albeit lousy video. If I use the nvidia driver from restricted drivers, after POST and splash screen the Samsung HDTV goes blank, searches for signal, and eventually errors with "no signal".

Connect the same HDTV to an Nvidia 7100 with an Svideo out, and it works perfectly, although not at 1080p in full HDMI glory.

If I do some crazy things like install with the 7100 connected to the Svideo, install the restricted driver, reboot, shut down, swap in the 7300GS, and reboot, I can *sometimes* get it working in full 1080p once or twice... but after a reboot, it's back to "no signal".

Mythbuntu 9.04 x64 with latest nvidia driver (185 I believe)
ASUS M2V Motherboard
MSI NX-7300GS 256MB HDMI

Should I try an older driver? I'm thinking this has to be an xorg.conf type of fix where I just need to force the appropriate settings for screen detection etc.

Any help is GREATLY appreciated!

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by SiHa on 2009-10-16
When I installed 9.10 beta the other day, the HDMI output disappeared after the initial post-install reboot. Looked like the signal was out of range for the TV.
I rebooted with a monitor on the VGA, and set the resolution to something the TV would like (1280x768), and shutdown. Plugged the HDMI back, and hey-presto, all is fine.

---

### Post by obscure411 on 2009-10-16
Yeah I tried something similar but unfortunately I don't have a monitor close by to attach it to ... instead I tried using a 7100 card with an svga output and set it to 1024x768 via nvidia-xconfig, shutting down, swapping cards, and rebooting.

Unfortunately what I think is happening is that the card swap is forcing Mythbuntu to reconfigure xorg.conf because of the hardware change.  Since the 7300 card only has HDMI and DVI (I tried using a DVI-to-VGA adapter to connect it to the monitor input on my Samsung LN-40A550 but got *no* signal at all) I'm not sure how to work around this.

There must be a way to hardcode the xorg.conf settings via SSH or something, but I don't have the knowledge...

---

### Post by obscure411 on 2009-10-17
An update...

I've discovered that my HDTV will work with the 7300GS via HDMI... as long as I time things right.

If I keep the HDMI cable unplugged from the TV during/immediately following the splash screen, and then reconnect it about a minute later after X boots, I can then plug it in, see the Nvidia logo, it scans, usually throws the logo up again, and then X starts at an autologon prompt.  From there on, it goes into Myth just fine - although I should note that the display actually seems to be larger than the resolution of the TV (launch bar at the top is not visible on TV, but is in VNC, left side of screen seems cut off a bit).

However, if I keep the cable connected to the TV during the entire startup process, I get a single "beep" from my computer around the time that X would start, and "no signal" from the TV.  I'm forced to reboot and do the cable unplugging shuffle.

I've attached my xorg.conf in hopes that someone out there might be able to help assist me with this issue... as always, any assistance is greatly appreciated.

Thanks,

o411

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Sun Feb  1 20:25:37 UTC 2009

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "Monitor0"
	VendorName     "Unknown"
	ModelName      "SAMSUNG"
	HorizSync       26.0 - 68.0
	VertRefresh     23.0 - 61.0
	Option         "DPMS"
	# HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen0"
	Device         "Device0"
	Monitor        "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth    24
	Option         "TwinView" "0"
	Option         "metamodes" "1920x1080 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1920x1080_30 +0+0"
	Option         "ConnectedMonitor" "DFP-1"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth       24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load           "dbe"
	Load           "extmod"
	Load           "type1"
	Load           "freetype"
	Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Mouse0"
	Driver         "mouse"
	Option         "Protocol" "auto"
	Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
	Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Keyboard0"
	Driver         "kbd"
	# generated from default
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Layout0"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
	InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "Device0"
	Driver         "nvidia"
	VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
	BoardName      "GeForce 7300 GS"
	Option         "IgnoreEDID" "True"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

---

### Post by obscure411 on 2009-10-19
Bump once more...

Anyone??  Bueller?!?  74 views and nobody has any experience/suggestions?

---

### Post by bsntech on 2009-10-19
Howdy -

So, number one cause of the problem is that you have the Option "IgnoreEDID" "True" in your Device section.  With this one command, it is basically saying "I'm not listening to what the TV is telling me it can do, I will tell it what it will take!".

I tried getting HDMI setup on my new PC over the weekend and decided to revert back to VGA myself.  When I set that IgnoreEDID like you did, it would not work at all unless I had a proper MetaModes line in the Screen section.

Like you said - I have that same problem with my screen and it cutting off all four sides of the monitor - I can't see the top/bottom panels and both sides are cut off by about 20 pixels or so.  This is why I went back to the VGA cable - and the fact that I could go 1360 x 768 for my display mode - instead of being stuck at 720p.

Now, here is what I would do to fix the problem if you don't want to take the IgnoreEDID out:

Find out what the refresh rate is for your TV/monitor.  Mine is 60 hertz - and I thought this was typical, but I see above you have  MetaMode set at 30 hertz instead.  You should be able to find this out if you go into your nvidia-settings panel and then click the drop-down box on the Refresh Rate with your current setup.

Now, with the information for refresh rate, type in the following to a terminal:

gtf 1920 1080 30

Where 30 is your refresh rate.  If you actually have a 60 hertz refresh rate:

gtf 1920 1080 60

The first two variables set the width / height in pixels.

This should spit out something like the following:

  # 1920x1080 @ 60.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 67.08 kHz; pclk: 172.80 MHz
  Modeline "1920x1080_60.00"  172.80  1920 2040 2248 2576  1080 1081 1084 1118  -HSync +Vsync

Copy the two lines and paste those in your xorg.conf file in your Monitor section.

Now, note the name of the ModeLine above - which is "1920x1080_60.00"

You now need to go into your Screen section - and underneath the Depth 24 line, enter the following:

Modes<tab>"1920x1080_60.00"

I think that should do it.  Although you are still going to have the screen cut off on all four sides.  I believe - from all the research I did - it is called Overscan - and I couldn't find a way to fix it for my case.

---

### Post by bsntech on 2009-10-19
Also note - you should comment out this line too:

Option "metamodes" "1920x1080 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1920x1080_30 +0+0"

into:

#Option "metamodes" "1920x1080 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1920x1080_30 +0+0"

That line might cause a problem with the Modeline you create above.

---

