---
title: "[8.04] Mythbuntu - Program guide does not appear during Live TV"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by fixmyhead on 2008-04-26
I downloaded and installed the i386 8.04 Mythbuntu on Friday, and found that everything more or less worked out of the box with the exception of the Program Guide.  When I push the "Guide" button on my remote during Live TV(Hauppage silver, included with the PVR-350), nothing appears to happen.  However, if I then push "Mute", I get the popup about "Mute on/off", then the Program Guide appears for a second or so, and disappears again.  It almost seems as if the Program Guide is behind the Live TV.  

I've tried setting the alpha for Program Guide to both max and min (0 to 255), to no avail.  I've tried CPU-, CPU--, and Slim for Playback options.  Also, if I go to Schedule Recordings (not in Live TV), my Program Guide works fine. Anyone else experiencing this?  I have used Mythbuntu 7.10 before with this same hardware setup, and it worked fine.  

Relevant HW: 
PVR-350, using the TV-out and X framebuffer
Generic onboard Intel graphics

I'm not at home right now to post xorg.confs/dmesg/Xorg.logs however if those are needed I'll update with them.

On a side note: when choosing the PVR-350 during install, it correctly adds the ivtvfb module to the kernel modules, they get loaded at boot time, BUT the Xorg driver package does NOT get installed.  If the kernel module for the framebuffer gets added, the installer should probably also add the Xorg driver package as well.  It took me a bit of time to figure out why Xorg couldn't find the driver like it automatically did in 7.10 :)

Thanks in advance,
 --eric

---

### Post by Bal_Zac on 2008-05-28
I am having exactly the same problem with my PVR350 on the TV out.  It seems to only not display the guide when using the TV out also.  I can get the guide if I hook up a monitor and it as a second display.  Has anyone found a solution?

---

### Post by Bal_Zac on 2008-05-31
Well I finally figured this one out.  It turns out on alteast my system there is a problem with mythtv's PVR-350 TV out.  I unchecked 'use pvr-350's decoder/tv out' and it works like a charm.  It uses 8%-10% cpu instead of 2%-3% when it was using the decoder, but I really don't care.  Mythtv now will run on either of the monitors I start it on, or on the TV, and everything displays well.  Hope this helps someone.

---

### Post by laga on 2008-06-01
I believe there's a ticket for your problem: [http://svn.mythtv.org/trac/ticket/4964#comment:6](http://svn.mythtv.org/trac/ticket/4964#comment:6)

It's been fixed in svn trunk. Maybe the fix will get backported to 0.21 if someone asks nicely?

---

### Post by Bal_Zac on 2008-06-01
Well, if you look at the patch, it is insanely small.  In fact, it only changes 1 line.  So, it should be insanely easy to get the source for mythbuntu's mythtv and recompile with the line changed.  Here's a link to the patch if anyone is willing to recompile:
[http://svn.mythtv.org/trac/attachment/ticket/4964/mythtv-pvr350-epg.patch](http://svn.mythtv.org/trac/attachment/ticket/4964/mythtv-pvr350-epg.patch)

I will go ahead and compile a custom version and host it here (if it is not against the rules), however, it will probably not be available for a day or so, as I have never actually packaged for Debian, only RPMs.  If someone could point me to a site explaining the DEB making process, that would save me some time and would be greatly appreciated. 

Also, is it ok to post up custom deb files on here, or is that against the rules?

---

### Post by Bal_Zac on 2008-06-01
OK, I have compiled and installed with the custom patch, and can confirm this is a fix for the problem.  I have posted the bug in launchpad, so hopefully it will get fixed soon, especially seeing as how only 1 line needs to be changed in the source code.  Here is a link to the bug report if anyone is interested:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mythtv/+bug/236498](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mythtv/+bug/236498)

Also, just curious as to the process of actually fixing this bug.  Like I know that a bug report is great, but who is actually in charge of rebuilding the package and so on?

I'll go ahead and figure out how to build the debs, and post em up after some much needed sleep.

---

### Post by laga on 2008-06-01
The Mythbuntu developers usually also take care of the MythTV builds - it's mainly superm1 and I who do the packaging.

We prefer to pull patches from the release-0-21-fixes branch, though. I talked to a MythTV developer (danielk) a few weeks ago about that patch and I was told that there is probably a reason why the EPG is disabled :) However, looking at the 'svn annotate' logs didn't show much evidence.

---

### Post by Bal_Zac on 2008-06-05
I noticed that there is a new build available, mythtv - 0.21.0+fixes17416-0ubuntu1, however it is for intrepid, not hardy.  I'm kinda new to Ubuntu and deb based systems in general, and was wondering if this updated package is even compatible with 8.04, and if so, if it would make it into the 8.04 repos?  Basically what I am after is, are the different versions of Ubuntu backwards compatible?

---

### Post by j3gorman on 2008-06-28
I am a MythTv noob and I'm looking for support with mythtv 0.21.0+fixes17416-0ubuntu1. Like the other posters here, I have the PVR 350, Ubuntu 8.04 and MythTv that does not show the program guide in Live TV.  I need directions on how to apply install or otherwise use this patch/bug fix or whatever it is, and was hoping that directions are posted somewhere. Thanks!

---

