---
title: "12.04 - no sound in mythweb/ web browser"
date: 2012-04-27
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by GuiGuy on 2012-04-27
Hi,
I've upgraded to 12.04 mythbuntu from 11.10

It went smoothly, and 'most everything seems to be working. However, I have no sound in other media players and no sound in mythweb or web browsers (youtube etc).

Sound in mythtv live, mythvideo and mythmusic is OK.

Any help, any one?

TIA

---

### Post by Kantalias on 2012-04-28
I just solved my 12.04 audio problem by following the sound troubleshooting guide linked from the first post in this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1885240](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1885240).

---

### Post by GuiGuy on 2012-04-28
> **Kantalias said:**
> I just solved my 12.04 audio problem by following the sound troubleshooting guide linked from the first post in this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1885240](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1885240).

Thanks, but I had already eliminated that and more before posting here. As per my OP, sound is working in for most of the mythtv functions, except in mythweb and external players. 

Essentially, I don't think it's a sound problem but a problem of how software interacts with the  (frustrating) linux sound system.

Cheers

---

### Post by Kantalias on 2012-04-29
> **GuiGuy said:**
> Essentially, I don't think it's a sound problem but a problem of how software interacts with the  (frustrating) linux sound system.


I'm not sure where mythweb gets its sound settings.  I have audio in mythweb but the colors are all screwed up when watching videos (for example, the little red headed girl in the Pixar Brave trailer has bright blue hair).

Have you tried watching videos in a browser outside of MythTV?

---

### Post by GuiGuy on 2012-04-29
> **Kantalias said:**
> 

Have you tried watching videos in a browser outside of MythTV?

Yes. Anything outside of myth does not have sound. 

Only the core functions of mythtv have sound. 

Cheers

---

### Post by GuiGuy on 2012-04-29
> **Kantalias said:**
> I'm not sure where mythweb gets its sound settings.  I have audio in mythweb but the colors are all screwed up when watching videos (for example, the little red headed girl in the Pixar Brave trailer has bright blue hair).

I suppose you've verified cables and connections are OK?

---

### Post by Kantalias on 2012-04-29
> **GuiGuy said:**
> Anything outside of myth does not have sound. 

This is definitely an issue with the ALSA default sink.  You can redirect the MythTV audio to the correct output easily, but (most) everything else, especially web browsers, have no provision for this.  You'll need to step through the guide I linked and figure out what's not set right for your system.

[QUOTE=Kantalias] I have audio in mythweb but the colors are all screwed up when watching videos[/QUOTE]

[QUOTE=GuiGuy]I suppose you've verified cables and connections are OK?[/QUOTE]

Yeah, it was just in Flash and just on YouTube (in my observation).  Turns out it was also in Chrome and Firefox as well as mythweb ... I discovered it's an issue with hardware acceleration in Flash.  I disabled HW acceleration and everything renders fine (using more CPU, of course, but that's the way it was before I upgraded anyhow).  Very odd that after all this time Adobe hasn't gotten the acceleration right in Linux.  I can't wait until everything is HTML 5.

---

