---
title: "10.4 mytharchive to dvd  fails for video, works for recorded tv shows"
date: 2011-03-30
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by jeremycobert on 2011-03-30
i just tried to make a dvd out a video on my 10.4 machine and i get a failure that it cant find the selected video. but i can select tv shows and they burn just fine. 

i cant figure out what the problem could be or where to look.

i can play the videos in question and i know that at one time i could burn these videos. im not sure what changed. i assume is a permission on the video folder, but i have it set the same as the recording folder.


anyone have any ideas where to start looking ?

---

### Post by nickrout on 2011-03-30
> **jeremycobert said:**
> i just tried to make a dvd out a video on my 10.4 machine and i get a failure that it cant find the selected video. but i cna select tv shows and they burn just fine. 

i can tfigure out what the problem could be or where to look.

i can play the videos in question and i know that at one time i could burn these videos. im not sure what changed. i assume is a permission on the video folder, but i have it set the same as the recording folder.


anyone have any ideas where to start looking ?

yes, the logs!

---

### Post by jeremycobert on 2011-03-30
> **nickrout said:**
> yes, the logs!

the logs in /var/log/mythtv/  ? i am just not sure what i should be looking for.

---

### Post by nickrout on 2011-03-30
well you are looking for references to mytharchive, so a good start would be:

```
grep -i archive /var/log/mythtv/*
```

---

### Post by klc5555 on 2011-03-31
Also the mythburn log, which tends to get written in whatever directory you have set up for mytharchive to do its temporary work.

---

