---
title: "0.25 MythVideo issues"
date: 2012-04-19
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2012-04-19
I upgraded to 0.25 last weekend, and have all available updates installed.  I am having several issues with video playback (the only function I tend to use - no live TV, DVDs, etc.)

My remote front end that streams from the server is [one of these]("http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16856176001"), and it worked without issues on 0.24.  (remarkably so, keeping me from having to bug people in the forums for a loooong time. :) )  Since the upgrade, I have two issues:

[LIST]
[*]Videos lock up the entire system when they hit the end credits or when I hit stop, every two or three episodes.
[*]Playback has a line occasionally on the screen like the progressive scan of computer monitors on camera.
[/LIST]


Also of note:  My Nvidia drivers are updated to 295 version.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-04-21
What playback profile are you using ?

Your video card supports vdpau feature set B..

You are using mythbuntu desktop session?

Xfce (mythbuntu) does not use compiz /composite effects so if you are using VDPAU there should never be tearing.
If you are using other video overlay method then the strange line could be Vsync tearing.

0.25 requires "vdpaubuffers=size" option to be removed.
Any errors in the logs ?

Learn how to start the frontend from a terminal..
mythfrontend -v playback,audio

---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2012-04-25
I gave it a couple of days to be sure before responding.  I checked the playback profiles, which I didn't think to do, as I never touch those.  Turns out, somehow the profile got switched to OpenGL.  Not sure how.  At any rate, I haven't had any freezes or scan line on the screen.

Thanks!

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-04-25
The 9500GT should manage VDPAU normal profile okay..
I think it will look better & reduce CPU load

---

