---
title: "9.10 64-bit Mythbuntu - slow and multiple problems."
date: 2009-11-05
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Shockwav on 2009-11-05
](*,)

I'm so close to throwing in the towel on this.

Plextor tv-402 on USB. Shows as **Bus 001 Device 003: ID 093b:a004 Plextor Corp. ConvertX TV402U XLOADER**

GUI for setup sees NOTHING.

And the system over all is running like crap slow and lagging.

Did I make a mistake going 64 bit? Anybody know how to get the Plextor to intialize?


](*,)

Be kind, I've got H1N1 so I might not make a whole lot of sense.

---

### Post by Shockwav on 2009-11-07
Well, I have progress at least. The go7007 drivers do not appear to be part of the 9.10 Mythbuntu install so I had to compile them from the tarball.

Also needed was "sudo mount -t usbfs none /proc/bus/usb"



[http://go7007.imploder.org/](http://go7007.imploder.org/)  has more info.

---

### Post by xmrkite on 2009-11-12
Hello, I have this same tuner as you do...did you ever get it going? I'm curious what you did to get it going.

-Thanks

---

### Post by Shockwav on 2009-11-12
> **xmrkite said:**
> Hello, I have this same tuner as you do...did you ever get it going? I'm curious what you did to get it going.

-Thanks

I was able to get picture by setting it to mpg2 (mpg4 gave me a green screen) but I was not able to change channels. Changing channels either dumped me back to the desktop or gave me an "unrecoverable recorder" error

I could change the start channel in the setup dialogs and it would show the channel - but the bottom of the screen suffered some really bad compression and the lower 2% was completely artifacted.

I've messed with this for 2 weeks and I can't find any real sensible help. It seems that the driver itself is not being actively maintained either.

Mythdora developers have made some effort to help Convertx owners but the limitations are at the driver level now.

I've given up at this point and ordered a HD-5500 HDTV card.

Shame, it was a good device in Mythdora 4.

---

