---
title: "[10.10] Looking for startup script for irtrans irserver with mythbuntu"
date: 2011-04-02
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Morgennebel on 2011-04-02
Hi there,


I just installed my upgrade to mythbuntu 10.10 on my combined hard- and software. 

To have the built-in LCD and remote working (from FTDI, [www.irtrans.de](www.irtrans.de)) I compiled and installed, configured the irserver component to work with mythtv - all perfect.

Now I would like to automatically start irserver (with some options) during startup phase. irserver depends on working network, and needs to be started before mythwelcome (to provide /dev/lircd to mythwelcome).

I failed now for four hours to get a simple /etc/init/irserver.conf script getting working. I tried to modify /usr/share/mythtv/mythfrontend script and added "sudo irserver $options" as well. 

Nothing works.

Has someone please a working (with dependencies for mythbuntu) startup script for irserver?

Thanks, -MN

---

### Post by jmeads on 2011-04-03
Just put the startup of irserver into /etc/rc.local this runs at the end of init

---

### Post by Morgennebel on 2011-04-03
That's not working :)

X11/gdm is started by startup somewhere between power on and end of boot.
X11 startup triggers xfce4 start.
xfce4 starts mythwelcome with an "Autostart" object.

rc.local will be initiated after the end of all startup scripts - e.g. when mythwelcome is already running without lirc/irserver support as the /etc/lircd is missing.

So I really do need a startup script which depends on X11 (I think) but starts earlier than mythwelcome.

I tried to delay X11 startup via /etc/init/gdm.conf: adding another dependency "started irserver" - but this fails also, because the X11 times out and I only get a console after boot.

startup really sucks :(

Those five hours of my life I will never get back from accelerated boot time...

---

