---
title: "Hdmi 1920 x 1080"
date: 2014-12-31
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by khPWXxF on 2014-12-31
I have an HDMI resolution puzzle.
 
I am running a combined frontend/backend mythbuntu 14.04 system.  Mythtv 0.27 with nvidia 8300 graphics (304 drivers).  The frontend is set to output 1920 X 1080 via HDMI to a Samsung 32” TV.   I’m in the UK using DVB-T.
 
If I connect a 22” JVC TV (also claimed to be 1920 X 1080) instead of the Samsung it overscans showing only 1280 X 720 of the image.
 
Changing appearance in frontend to 1280 X 720 (tricky) allows the JVC to show the whole image.
 
My /etc/X11/xorg.conf was generated months ago with nvidia-xconfig and 
Option "UseHotplugEvents" "false" 
added to prevent blank screen if TV is power cycled as per
[http://www.gossamer-threads.com/lists/mythtv/users/570769](http://www.gossamer-threads.com/lists/mythtv/users/570769)
 
```
# xorg.conf is immutable and is protected from deletion by 'sudo chattr +i xorg.conf'
#  use 'sudo chattr -i xorg.conf' if you need to edit or remove it
#  use 'sudo lsattr xorg.conf' to list attributes


# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 304.117  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-01)  Tue Nov 26 22:29:40 PST 2013

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    Option         "UseHotPlugEvents"   "false"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```
 
The TV spec and manual for the JVC definitely says that it’s 1920 X 1080 (“full HD, 1080p”) and I deliberately chose that for compatibility and possible monitor use (though TV quality will be no different) so why does it overscan?     What else might I need to change on my myth setup?  Any insight appreciated before I make a fool of myself with the shop!
 
Phil

---

### Post by Lester_Burnham on 2014-12-31
Hi Phil,
I would be looking at every option on the TV to do with overscan, if you haven't already.  Will 1080 display at all?  I had fun with a TCL the other day. Found a view button on the remote, pressed it and it said partial or full. Voila no overscan...

What does xrandr give?

I've never had much success using the screen settings wizard in mythbuntu.

Lester

---

### Post by khPWXxF on 2014-12-31
Thanks Lester,
I have RTFM but it suggested that it should just adopt input pixels if set to 'full' aspect ratio.  That didn't work.
Will try that xrandr after visitors have left.
Thanks
Phil

---

### Post by Lester_Burnham on 2014-12-31
Hi Phil,

Have you tried renaming your xorg.conf to take it out of play for now and reboot to see what happens.
As you probably know already xrandr will only report what the TV supports.

One thing I have done with an el-cheapo 26" Kogan TV that I have here is, the desktop runs at 1360x768 (without overscan), but in mythtv setup>appearance I set it to use 1920x1080 and it switches fine without overscan on starting mythfrontend.
It might be something else to mess with.

Lester

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-12-31
Hi khPWXxF.

Note that there are usually 2 types of setting on the TV.

One for the aspect radio, which does not deal with overscan. For instance, to stretch a 4:3 signal into 16:9, or to zoom into a 16:9 inside a 4:3 signal to fill the screen at 16:9.

The one related to overscan does not have an universal name. For example, in the case of my Sony Bravia, the setting is called 'Full Pixel', and it's under the menu Screen -> Display Area. In my brother's Samsung you would set the attribute P.size to 'Full Scan' ( in the Picture Options -> Screen Size menu if I remember correctly).

There are TVs that only can remove overscan by entering in non publicly disclosed menus (for instance, ones that you only get by keeping press certain buttons while powering up your TV). Also, there are some sad cases where you can't remove overscan.

What is the exact brand and model of you TV?

Regards.

---

### Post by khPWXxF on 2015-01-02
Thanks for your great suggestions.  I think I confused matters by describing the symptoms as ‘overscan’ rather than ‘resolution mismatch’.
 
Yes, I had tried removing xorg.conf but that made no difference. 
 
I didn’t know about xrandr but it was the key I needed.  It told me that the small TV (a JVC LT-22C540) did indeed support 1920x1080 but that 1280x720 was preferred.  That’s different to the 32” Samsung for which 1920x1080 is preferred.
 
Issuing this command put everything right:
```
xrandr --output HDMI-0 --mode 1920x1080
```
Surprisingly, it survives a reboot too, but I‘m not entirely sure I understand the mechanisms involved here!
 
A subsidiary question:  I’m in the UK where mains frequency is 50Hz and TV scan rates are same (to minimise hum problems in early sets).  Should the HDMI interface be set that way too rather than 60Hz?
 
Thanks again.
Phil

---

### Post by Lester_Burnham on 2015-01-02
Hi Phil,

I would think it should be set at 50hz when watching 50hz content, otherwise you get judder when watching movement. A good example used to be ticker tapes (news feeds) on news screens.

My fontend / TV prefers 60hz on the menu, but switches to 50hz on playback of content (au)

Lester

---

