---
title: "8.10 Myth packages older than hardy weekly fixes"
date: 2008-11-10
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by pelago on 2008-11-10
My system was 8.04 with the "Automated Weekly MythTV 0.21-fixes Builds" (as described at [http://www.mythbuntu.org/auto-builds](http://www.mythbuntu.org/auto-builds)) and medibuntu packages for dvdcss and w32codecs.

I have just upgraded this system to to 8.10. It's mostly gone fine, except that the standard 8.10 Myth packages are a lower version than the current 0.21-fixes ones. Ubuntu has kept the newer packages installed, which is fine, except I think that has lead to some dependency problems.

Specifically, synatpic tells me there are upgrades to mplayer, mencoder, and transcode, but they say:
mencoder:
 Depends: libmp3lame0 but it is not going to be installed

mplayer:
 Depends: libmp3lame0 but it is not going to be installed

transcode:
 Depends: libmp3lame0 but it is not going to be installed
 Recommends: sox but it is not going to be installed
 Recommends: toolame but it is not going to be installed
 Recommends: transcode-doc but it is not going to be installed

If I mark to install libmp3lame0 it wants to do:

libavcodec1d will be removed
liblame0 will be removed
libmyth-0.21-0 will be removed
mytharchive will be removed
mythbrowser will be removed
mythcontrols will be removed
mythmusic will be removed
mythstream will be removed
mythtv-backend will be removed
mythtv-frontend will be removed
mythtv-theme-mythbuntu will be removed
mythtv-transcode-utils will be removed
mythvideo will be removed
nuvexport will be removed

Is this something to do with the fact that I currently have Myth packages which are newer than they 'should' be for 8.10?

---

### Post by pelago on 2008-11-11
Anyone else having libmp3lame0 dependency problems?

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2008-11-11
Hi,

I was running weekly builds on 8.04,upgraded to 8.10 last weekend and every thing went well. I'm not seeing any problems, even though I think the system removed several "unused packages".

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by pelago on 2008-11-11
Thanks for the reply. What version of, for example, mythtv-common do you have installed? Mine is currently 0.21.0+fixes18961-0ubuntu0+mythbuntu1.

---

### Post by mrand on 2008-11-11
> **pelago said:**
> Thanks for the reply. What version of, for example, mythtv-common do you have installed? Mine is currently 0.21.0+fixes18961-0ubuntu0+mythbuntu1.

8.04 weekly fixes branch:
 *** 0.21.0+fixes18704-0ubuntu0+mythbuntu1

8.10 release:
 *** 0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu0+mythbuntu1

(so I don't thik the 8.10 myth package is older than the weekly fixes)

[INDENT]Marc[/INDENT]

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2008-11-12
Hi,

dpkg -l | grep myth
```

rc  libgmyth0                                  1:0.7.1-1                             GObject based library for accessing MythTV b
rc  libmyth-0.20                               0.20.2-0ubuntu10                      Common library code for MythTV and add-on mo
ii  libmyth-0.21-0                             0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu1            Common library code for MythTV and add-on mo
ii  libmyth-perl                               0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu1            A PERL library to access some MythTV feature
ii  mythtv-backend                             0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu1            A personal video recorder application (serve
ii  mythtv-common                              0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu1            A personal video recorder application (commo
ii  mythtv-database                            0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu1            A personal video recorder application (datab
ii  mythtv-transcode-utils                     0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu1            Utilities used for transcoding MythTV tasks
ii  mythweb                                    0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu1            Web interface add-on module for MythTV

```

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by pelago on 2008-11-12
> **mrand said:**
> 8.04 weekly fixes branch:
 *** 0.21.0+fixes18704-0ubuntu0+mythbuntu1

8.10 release:
 *** 0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu0+mythbuntu1

(so I don't thik the 8.10 myth package is older than the weekly fixes)

[INDENT]Marc[/INDENT]

How odd, I'm definitely seeing fixes18961 on both my 8.10 machine that used to be 8.04 with weekly fixes, and my machine that is still on 8.04 with weekly fixes. Specifically, the repository is:

deb [http://uk.weeklybuilds.mythbuntu.org/mythbuntu/ubuntu](http://uk.weeklybuilds.mythbuntu.org/mythbuntu/ubuntu) hardy main

and browsing that with a web browser sees several files with fixes18961 in the filename, so I don't think it's my imagination.

> **ian dobson said:**
> Hi,

dpkg -l | grep myth
```

rc  libgmyth0                                  1:0.7.1-1                             GObject based library for accessing MythTV b
rc  libmyth-0.20                               0.20.2-0ubuntu10                      Common library code for MythTV and add-on mo
ii  libmyth-0.21-0                             0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu1            Common library code for MythTV and add-on mo
ii  libmyth-perl                               0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu1            A PERL library to access some MythTV feature
ii  mythtv-backend                             0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu1            A personal video recorder application (serve
ii  mythtv-common                              0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu1            A personal video recorder application (commo
ii  mythtv-database                            0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu1            A personal video recorder application (datab
ii  mythtv-transcode-utils                     0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu1            Utilities used for transcoding MythTV tasks
ii  mythweb                                    0.21.0+fixes18722-0ubuntu1            Web interface add-on module for MythTV

```

Regards
Ian Dobson

OK, so you're on fixes18722, which is the packages from the 8.10 repositories. I wonder if the difference is that you upgraded to 8.10 earlier than I did. Upgrading to 8.10 disables 3rd-party repositories, so if you upgraded to 8.10 before the weekly fixes went higher than 18722 then you will stay at that level until 8.10 gets upgraded or until you add another 3rd-party repository.

**Have I screwed up my machine by sticking with 8.04 with weekly fixes for too long before upgrading to 8.10?**

I should say that there isn't an awful lot wrong with my machine, except for this weird dependency problem with libmp3lame0 which is stopping me upgrading mplayer, mencoder, and transcode. I'm happy to wait this out until there is a weekly fixes repository for 8.10 which will presumably fix the problem.

---

### Post by laga on 2008-11-13
I'm uploading a newer -fixes version to Intrepid right now. If time permits, I'll write some scripts to make sure there's always a good upgrade path..

---

### Post by pelago on 2008-11-13
Thanks, I'll look out for that. Out of interest, do you mean in the main intrepid repositories, or in a new weekly fixes repository for intrepid?

---

### Post by pelago on 2008-11-17
> **laga said:**
> I'm uploading a newer -fixes version to Intrepid right now.
Hi. Please don't think I'm pressing, but I'm wondering what you meant by this. I *thought* you meant that it would be ready to download from the repository soon after your post, but I guess you meant something else.

---

### Post by lionsnob on 2008-11-19
Hi.  Is there any update on this?

---

### Post by joshoekstra on 2008-11-24
I'm stuck as well, got the fixes18722 packages and upgraded 8.04 to 8.10 as well.
Some packages can be installed, other are stuck at unresolved dependency: liblame0 (>=3.97) but it is not installable and
libx264-57 (>=1:0.svn20071224) but it is not installable
(Marking libmyth as upgrade).

The funny thing is that I have libmp3lame0 installed at version 3.98 and x264 is at libx264-64 or 59.
It seems as if some dependencies aren't defined correctly?

It's good to see that the intrepid repo is online, just a bummer that the orange star can't be removed ;)

---

### Post by orduek on 2008-11-26
So what can we do?

---

### Post by laga on 2008-11-27
This thread is probably related: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=993004](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=993004)

We're working on a fix.

---

