---
title: "Nova-T 500, 10.10 Mythbuntu and unavailable tuners?"
date: 2010-12-28
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by drifting on 2010-12-28
I am rather confused by this, so I hope someone can point me in the right direction.

I have installed 3 different machines, with 3 different Nova-T 500's and on every install I can tune the cards and get stations added. However when I go to the frontend on the same machine, all the tuners are listed as unavailable? Once I would put down to me, but 3 times? or am I missed something obvious?

And yes I have selected the right DVB tuner, they are all working in a previous live system, which I use daily, this was a precursor to upgrading from 8.04 Mythbuntu 

Regards Paul

---

### Post by AlecJ on 2010-12-28
I think you may need to use the autobuilds, to get the NOVA-T working, the upgrades have a bad effect on USB type cards, such as the Nova-T 500.
I have a draw full of now not supported cards??

---

### Post by drifting on 2010-12-29
I have already enabled the autobuilds, I really hope that is not the case about being unsupported, I would be dissapointed as I have built Myth boxes for a number of my family, and all have Nova-t 500's

---

### Post by utar on 2010-12-29
I'm using a Nova T-500 on recently upgraded 10.10 without any problems.

Try checking your logs when you try and tune a channel in the frontend to see if that give any clue as to why it isn't working.

Also make sure you go a cold boot of the PC (i.e. turn power off at the wall) as in my experience the card falls overs very quickly if you do a warm reboot.

---

### Post by thatguruguy on 2010-12-29
> **AlecJ said:**
> I think you may need to use the autobuilds, to get the NOVA-T working, the upgrades have a bad effect on USB type cards, such as the Nova-T 500.
I have a draw full of now not supported cards??

I'm not entirely sure what point is being made here, but I think it's probably wrong.

Did you click the "Use DVB card for active EIT scan" option for your cards when you set them up? I've had the lead to undesirable results.

---

### Post by drifting on 2010-12-30
Thanks both, and I did set up active EIT scan.

The odd part that really gets to me is that the backend / frontend server is the same machine. I can tune fine from within the backend setup, but if you go into the frontend, it will not tune at all, and just jumps straight back. And in the information part it shows all the tuners as unavailable? As I siad this was on 3 different builds, so perhaps can only assume that I am doing something real dumb?

Paul.

---

