---
title: "upnp database config issues"
date: 2012-10-05
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by RTIInstaller on 2012-10-05
As requested I am starting a new thread.

Can someone kindly post the terminal entry which alows you to change the database password that was automatically set on install? I found it on this site earlier but was not smart enough to write it down. now I cant find it again.

Under host.. I have my static IP  192.168.1.100
Port is 6543 with ping
Database name = mythconverg (is this correct?)
User name= my name
Password = something generated by the computer which I did not enter myself?

---

### Post by jksj on 2012-10-05
The info on this page has got me out of trouble lots of times :-
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV/Install/Troubleshooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV/Install/Troubleshooting)
It tells you how to reset passwords and resolve connection issues.

---

### Post by RTIInstaller on 2012-10-05
grep mythtv: /etc/group
mythtv: x :117:aaron
aaron@backend:~$ mysql -u root mysql
ERROR 1045 (28000): Access denied for user 'root'@'localhost' (using password: NO)
aaron@backend:~$ 
aaron@backend:~$ mythtv-setup
xprop:  unable to open display ''

(zenity:1831): Gtk-WARNING **: cannot open display:

---

### Post by RTIInstaller on 2012-10-05
Local Backend settings
ip 192.168.1.100
port 6543  status port 6544
pin 0000

master backend
ip 192.168.1.100
port 6543

Front end settings
host name 192.168.1.100
ping test yes
port = blank (this is the only way it will boot into the front end)
DB name = mythconverg
user mythtv
pass xxxxxx (computer generated)

I can get into the menus with these settings which all look and act normal but it doesn't do anything. I put a couple of vob files in the /var/lib/myth/videos folder but when I go to recordings it complains that it cant find the data base?

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2012-10-05
The password for the **mythtv** database user should be in plain text in the /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt file:

```
cat /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt
```IIRC the mythbuntu installer sets the mysql **root** password the same as the login password of the primary user

Hope this helps

---

### Post by RTIInstaller on 2012-10-05
> **steeldriver said:**
> The password for the **mythtv** database user should be in plain text in the /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt file:

```
cat /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt
```IIRC the mythbuntu installer sets the mysql **root** password the same as the login password of the primary user

Hope this helps
Yes thank you I am using the password found in /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt file:

---

### Post by RTIInstaller on 2012-10-05
Thanks for everyone's help!  :guitar:

I got this thing Finally working except for a couple of bugs. 

When I open video recordings it gives me two folder options to choose from, the first is phantom and the second contains the actual videos  I think the phantom video folder is from when I was trying to setup a path to the movies on my raid and then changed my mind when I could not get that to work, so I erased the link which left a slash " / " which I cant get rid of?

Ultimately I want to figure out how to access all of the movies I have stored on my raid drive which Ubuntu sees as an external drive right now which I guess means that it is not mounted?

Any thoughts?

---

