---
title: "0.24 audio sync issue"
date: 2011-02-27
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by kja999 on 2011-02-27
Hi,

After upgrading to 0.24 I have terrible audio sync, mainly on live TV..
Has anyone else got this ?

Any ideas?

---

### Post by xinix on 2011-03-02
Please give us some more details about your audio configuration.  I found that I got horrible sync issues with PulseAudio (an evil I needed while I got bluetooth headphones to work with ALSA). Your problem may be completely different though.  I got things working by trying a few of the different device options that worked and found one that does not have sync issues.

---

### Post by kja999 on 2011-03-02
Well I guess the first question about other people having the same is answered, with a no! :)

Ok, so I have been playing upgrades, and have used 2 different motherboards with the same result.
Currently I am using a ASUS AT3IONT-I DELUXE, which is an Atom 330 with Nvidia ION onboard.

With TV playback the sound is slower than the video by varying degrees (with no pattern that I can see). 
Normal DVDs and other videos are fine.

Audio is through the normal audio out headphone jack on the motherboard, not through digital or HDMI.

I have tried the different audio devices now nicely listed, including as you mention the dreaded pulseaudio (I figured extra latency might be good), with no change.

Other hints I have googled and tried are changing the audio buffer option, force the sampling to 48k, and changing the mixer to 'software'.

The only hint I have had is this terminal message which seemed to match having very bad audio sync after a channel change:

2011-03-01 21:30:03.274 msg: On known multiplex...
Unknown ResidentProgram GIS
Unknown ResidentProgram SBI
2011-03-01 21:30:19.154 [mp2 @ 0xb668cae0]Header missing
2011-03-01 21:30:19.155 AFD Error: Unknown audio decoding error

I welcome any suggestions...!

Other (possibly) useful info....

mythfrontend --version shows:
MythTV Version   : v0.24-194-g6e5ca62
MythTV Branch    : fixes/0.24
Network Protocol : 63
Library API      : 0.24.20101129-1
QT Version       : 4.7.0
Options compiled in:
 linux debug using_alsa using_jack using_oss using_pulse using_pulseoutput using_backend using_bindings_perl using_bindings_python using_dvb using_firewire using_frontend using_hdhomerun using_hdpvr using_iptv using_ivtv using_joystick_menu using_lirc using_mheg using_opengl_video using_opengl_vsync using_qtdbus using_qtwebkit using_v4l using_x11 using_xrandr using_xv using_bindings_perl using_bindings_python using_mythtranscode using_opengl using_vdpau using_ffmpeg_threads using_live using_mheg


lspci reports this as the audio device:
Audio device: nVidia Corporation MCP79 High Definition Audio (rev b1)

lsmod has these modules related to snd:
snd_hda_codec_realtek,snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec,snd_hwdep,snd_pcm,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq,snd_timer,snd_seq_device

---

### Post by kja999 on 2011-03-05
Ok, so you should play puzzle games when stuck on technical issues!

Suddenly thought, maybe it's not the audio thats fast, but the video thats slow.
Switched verbose to playback instead of audio (mythfrontend -v playback) and saw there was loads of frames being dropped.

Changed the playback method (custom with VDPAU but no filters) and all seems to be well ...

---

