---
title: "10.04 Mounted Shares Cause Slow Shutdown"
date: 2010-05-12
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by uncle hammy on 2010-05-12
I have been mounting several shares in fstab for a couple years now to facilitate using my music, photos and videos (pre Storage Groups) on my front ends.  However, with my new 10.04 frontends, having these mounts in fstab causes unbearably slow reboots (like almost 10 minutes for one of them).  Remove the mounts, and if I blink, I miss the shut down.

I tried renaming /etc/rc6.c/S31umountnfs.sh to run before /etc/rc6.c/S15wpa-ifupdown like I saw suggested somewhere to no avail.  Though, I am using samba, not NFS, so that may have something to do with that not helping.

Anyone have any ideas on how I can combat this?

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2010-05-13
Hi,

I'm mounting my samba shares through rc.local rather than in fstab and shutdown only takes afew seconds from my frontend.

Just delete the fstab entries and add the mount commands to your /etc/rc.local script.


Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by Lepy on 2010-05-13
When I used to use samba + fstab, I experienced this behavior as well. 

Fixed it with this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=293513](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=293513)

Ian's suggestion would be much more elegant, however.

---

### Post by uncle hammy on 2010-05-13
> **ian dobson said:**
> Just delete the fstab entries and add the mount commands to your /etc/rc.local script.


Regards
Ian Dobson
Cheers!  Could you please provide me with an example mount in rc.local?  I have tried adding the following just before "exit 0", both with and without sudo.  It is not doing the mount for me.

smbmount //mMYSERVERNAME/Music /media_storage/Music/ -o username=MYUSER,password=MYPASS rw

Thanks

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2010-05-13
Hi,

This is the mount command I'm using in rc.local:-

```
mount -t cifs -o  username=NAME,password=PASSWORD,rsize=8192,wsize=8192,noatime  //192.168.0.2/Data /mnt/video
```
Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by uncle hammy on 2010-05-13
With nothing special done to provide root access?

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2010-05-13
Hi uncle hammy,

rc.local is started as root by the init script. 

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by uncle hammy on 2010-05-13
It's not working.  I am seeing a quick message during boot up (before I actually get to any UI)

Mount error, network is unreachable.

---

### Post by laffinet on 2010-05-13
I suspect this is because your not connected to your network at the time rc.local is trying to mount the drives.

I had a similar issue when trying to wake up the backend via wakeonlan in rc.local.

The way I got around it is by editing the network configuration file /etc/network/interfaces.
In my case I added the following lines:
```
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
```
Yours might be slightly different, depending on your network interface, dhcp or static etc.

That way networking gets started earlier in the boot process and should be up when rc.local gets called. At least it is in my case.
I also uninstalled network manager, although I read somewhere that step is not necessary (haven't tried it though).

---

### Post by uncle hammy on 2010-05-14
OK, well between moving to rc.local, and abandoning Network Manager for /etc/network/interfaces, I have it working.

It also only helps me with my front ends.  On my Ubuntu laptop, that I also like to redirect my Music, Pictures, etc folders to those shares on my server, I have to manually set up all the wireless settings in /etc/network/interfaces.  Which means when I leave my house, I have a whole pile of work in front of me to connect to say my dad's wireless network.  

Seems like a real PITA to me.  In this day and age, mounting a network share at boot is pretty common place...should NOT be this difficult.  All the fancy GUI tools in the world are rendered pretty useless by things like this.

---

### Post by kja999 on 2010-05-15
Have you thought of using autofs?

This will automatically mount/unmount shares as you need them.

---

### Post by uncle hammy on 2010-05-15
Thanks, I took a look at it.  Seems like a lot of work too.  

Most of my frustration with this, is it isn't a big request....in fact, in this day and age of networking up the wazzu, any modern OS that wants to be seen as serious should be able to just do it, easily.  I.E. not having to stand on your head, singing Kumbaya backwards, drinking upside down from a cup and rubbing your belly counter clockwise for precisely 10 seconds, to get something as simple as mounting a network share at boot up work without wrecking your system.

---

### Post by laffinet on 2010-05-16
As I said, I believe you can leave Network Manager installed (and therefore make use of its benefits, eg GUI and connecting to someone else's network) and still use the /etc/network/interfaces method to make sure the network gets started early when booting.

But I agree, it shouldn't be this difficult.

---

### Post by uncle hammy on 2010-05-16
> **laffinet said:**
> As I said, I believe you can leave Network Manager installed (and therefore make use of its benefits, eg GUI and connecting to someone else's network) and still use the /etc/network/interfaces method to make sure the network gets started early when booting.

But I agree, it shouldn't be this difficult.
Yes, that worked on my frontends.  However, it does not work on my laptop with wireless.  Even once I got the settings properly worked out in /etc/network/interfaces for a WPA2 wireless connection, it still doesn't come up fast enough to have the mounts work in rc.local.  At least not with a dhcp setting....haven't tried it with a static on the wireless.

---

### Post by m2xtreme on 2011-01-30
some people may find my post in this thread helpful: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1572660](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1572660)

---

