---
title: "Pvr 500"
date: 2008-02-21
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by 4dognight on 2008-02-21
I picked up a pvr500 on fleabay,  and its got some nasty picture quality(grainy and lines). I googled around and realized I have the samsung tuners. Im running 7.10 and have tried bypassing my coax amp and tried using up to 2- 6db attenuators. I get a slightly better picture but still not good enough to consider using this thing.

Is there any other things I can try to get better picture quality. What are my chances of trying to send it in to the manufacturer for repair/replacement?

I suppose I could just get rid of it and buy a different brand.

---

### Post by newlinux on 2008-02-21
In the recording profiles, try setting the resolution to 720x480 and using the DVD-special 2 codec. They make things look better for me

---

### Post by 4dognight on 2008-02-21
That seemed to work better. No more lines, but still a little bit grainy. It still isnt as good as my pvr350. I was looking at it on my LCD, I will have to see how it looks on the tube. Prob not as noticable.

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2008-02-22
Hi,

Check out your cabling. I have a PVR-500 in my backend and I had to run about 30meters of cable from the cable socket to the server.

I was also having problems with picture quality (lines, fuzzy picture etc), after replacing the plugs I got a much better picture. 
The plugs that I used in the beginning were "push fit" which I replaced with plugs were the central pin is held in place with a small screw.

The PVR-500 seems to be very sensitive to signal quality. I imagine that comes from having two tuners and having to use an amplifier on board.

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by arron on 2008-03-11
This is going to sound stupid....  But what program do you use to view and record with your pvr 500?  I have tried a few but i get an "overlay not supported" and i was told it is to do with newer v4l devices.  I ddint want to go with mythtv b/c seems like an overkill just to record some old vcr tapes.  Im runnung kernel 2.6.22 which supports the card without any input, and cat /dev/*devicename* > testfile.mpg works.

Thanks

---

### Post by newlinux on 2008-03-11
I use mythtv. But you could try using vlc or mplayer (using ivtv-tune to change channels). You could use the KDE Kaffiene or Karaivtv programs.

I personally just use the cat command to capture VCR tape output (you could use the "at" command to schedule when to start and/or stop the capture).

---

