---
title: "8.04 Hauppauge Nova T 500 disconnects now even worse"
date: 2008-03-17
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Lem on 2008-03-17
I somehow managed to toast my 7.10 setup with a dist-upgrade, so took the plunge with the latest version.
Looks very slick, but the disconnects on the Nova-T 500 have gone from occasionally annoying to terrible - even drops when switching channels. I had to reboot 5-6 times in the first day alone.

I've only added the firmware to /lib/firmware and am using the stock v4l drivers. Not sure if there if much benefit to be had from compiling the very latest version?

---

### Post by Lem on 2008-03-18
I've got some improvement by building the latest kernel modules for the card.
You can use these instructions; [http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/Hauppauge_WinTV_Nova-T_500_PCI](http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/Hauppauge_WinTV_Nova-T_500_PCI)

but use 2.6.24 in this bit;

sudo apt-get install linux-source
cd /usr/src/
sudo tar -xjvf linux-source-2.6.24.tar.bz2
sudo ln -s /usr/src/linux-source-2.6.24 /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/source

and skip this bit;

sudo apt-get install ncurses-dev
sudo make menuconfig

My system held itself up for the evening with these modules, but died overnight. 
Has anyone got the Nova T 500 running well? Dual tuners are a real boon in a small system and the onboard signal amplifier gives a better signal than the standard nova t.

---

### Post by Nikas on 2008-03-18
I have no problems what so ever with my two Nova T-500. Latest v4l-dvb-drivers of course. I'm using 7.10 but plan to go over to 8.04 soon.

---

### Post by Lem on 2008-03-18
Do you use the remote control or EIT schedules?
Both have been listed as causing problems. I use both :(

---

### Post by Nikas on 2008-03-18
> **Lem said:**
> Do you use the remote control or EIT schedules?
Both have been listed as causing problems. I use both :(

Well.. no. I use XMLTV and my own serial receiver.

---

### Post by Lem on 2008-03-18
I might try xmltv too..

---

### Post by Lem on 2008-03-18
Still problematic.. Mainly seems to be when switching/starting a channel - only solved with a reboot.

I've tried, new v4l drivers, turning off EIT, turning off the remote, using a psck script, turning off the usb standby... all to no avail.

I might try some Nova T 500 - dustbin interaction next.

---

### Post by Lem on 2008-03-21
Seems that a Nova T 500 in a weak signal area just isn't going to work under mythtv,

The standard single tuner Nova-T is back in and my sanity has been restored.

---

### Post by duckville on 2008-03-31
At one point my 2 Nova T 500 worked well (7.10), a drop out here and there, but now the drop outs are driving me nuts (8.04 dev). I did use EIT so I wasn't helping the issue.

Now I've got both my backends running 8.04, but using 2 Nova T each.
Using my desktop (mac mini with ubuntu 7.10) as my frontend, not a single issue yet.

2 Nova T 500 in a draw somewhere...

---

### Post by laga on 2008-03-31
There's a report about this in launchpad:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/209603](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/209603)

---

### Post by laga on 2008-04-02
The bug is supposed to be fixed in linux 2.6.24-14.24. Can you please verify?

---

### Post by Hugolp on 2008-04-28
> **laga said:**
> The bug is supposed to be fixed in linux 2.6.24-14.24. Can you please verify?

laga, here using nova-t-500 with clean hardy install (release version, no rc). Kernel 2.6.24-14.generic and nova-t-500 keeps on disconeting randomly. Any solution much apreciated.

Hugo

---

### Post by Hugolp on 2008-05-05
Solution founded:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4887362#post4887362](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4887362#post4887362)

---

