---
title: "[8.04] Changing mythfrontend autorun"
date: 2008-03-10
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by BenFranske on 2008-03-10
I run my Mythbuntu system with dual monitors (well the second is the PVR-350 framebuffer on a TV). In any event I've configured X so that screen 0 is the PC monitor and screen 1 is the TV. I'd like to have mythfrontend run on system startup but load on screen 1 instead of screen 0. I can do this manually by closing mythfrontend and opening a terminal where I "export DISPLAY=:0.1" and the run mythfrontend but I'd like this to run automatically.

Can anyone explain to me how mythfrontend is autostarted so I can change the script which starts it and add "export DISPLAY=:0.1" to it which I think will get things the way I would like?

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-03-10
Probably:

edit /etc/mythtv/session-settings

set

MYTHFRONTEND_OPTS="-display :0.1"

---

### Post by BenFranske on 2008-03-13
I think that's the right answer unfortunately it doesn't work. When I try that I get an error about the option being incorrect when I attempt to start "mythfrontend --service" with "-dispaly :0.1" in the mynthfrontend_opts. On the other hand that does seem to be the correct option as it works perfectly if I manually run "mythfrontend -display :0.1" For some reason it sems you cannot use the display option in the session-settings file. I'm not sure if this is an Ubuntu package thing or an upstream MythTV thing but I would guess the latter. It would be nice if this could be fixed. In the meantime are there other suggestions?

---

### Post by finlay648 on 2008-04-05
I just figured out how to make this work, There is a bug in mythfrontend that causes the options set in session-settings to be passed as a unit instead of multiple words.
To fix change:

 exec /usr/bin/mythfrontend.real "$@"

to:

 exec /usr/bin/mythfrontend.real $@

John

---

### Post by BenFranske on 2008-04-06
Thanks, I'll look into that. If you haven't done so yet you should file a bug report at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mythtv/](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mythtv/) which will get this fixed in future versions.

---

### Post by BenFranske on 2008-04-15
Just to clarify, once I made the change suggested by John (replacing exec /usr/bin/mythfrontend.real "$@" with exec /usr/bin/mythfrontend.real $@ ) in the /usr/share/mythtv/mythfrontend.sh file I was able to put MYTHFRONTEND_OPTS="-display :0.1" in the /etc/mythtv/session-settings file and things worked as expected. I'm going to check launchpad for a bug report and if one hasn't already been filed I'm going to file one.

---

