---
title: "9.10 Mythbuntu Control Center not starting"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by ghuber on 2009-10-31
I upgraded to 9.10 and everything is working for the most part except when I try to launch Mythbuntu Control Center.  Nothing happens after I click on it.  I reinstalled it from synampic but no change.  Not sure what it is unhappy about.

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2009-10-31
> **ghuber said:**
> I upgraded to 9.10 and everything is working for the most part except when I try to launch Mythbuntu Control Center.  Nothing happens after I click on it.  I reinstalled it from synampic but no change.  Not sure what it is unhappy about.

Start it from the command line and see what the error is

---

### Post by ghuber on 2009-11-01
Ok, I ran the control center as root and get this:

Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/bin/mythbuntu-control-centre", line 32, in <module>
    from MythbuntuControlCentre.backend import UnknownHandlerException, PermissionDeniedByPolicy, BackendCrashError, dbus_sync_call_signal_wrapper, Backend, DBUS_BUS_NAME
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/MythbuntuControlCentre/backend.py", line 39, in <module>
    from MythbuntuControlCentre.plugin import MCCPlugin
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/MythbuntuControlCentre/plugin.py", line 30, in <module>
    import gtk
  File "/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/gtk-2.0/gtk/__init__.py", line 40, in <module>
    from gtk import _gtk
ImportError: /usr/lib/libgtk-x11-2.0.so.0: undefined symbol: g_array_unref

---

### Post by superm1 on 2009-11-01
That sounds like it can possibly be corruption on your disk or a poorly upgraded package.

I would open up synaptic, and find "libgtk2.0-0" and reinstall it.

---

### Post by ghuber on 2009-11-01
I ran sudo apt-get install --reinstall libgtk2.0-0

then tried running it again..
still getting the same error  :(

---

### Post by superm1 on 2009-11-01
Ok, try reinstalling python-gtk2 then, perhaps that's where the error actually lies.

---

### Post by DaveQB on 2009-11-17
Sorry to derail this, but new to mythbuntu and wondering how one can launch mythbuntu control center from the MythTV menu?

The 8.10 manual says:

> If you have a MythTV frontend running, you can access the control centre by Choosing Utilities/Setup, Setup, Mythbuntu.

But this is not there in 9.10

I found I can use a mouse to navigate to the Applications menu to work around this issue for now.

Thanks

---

