---
title: "PVR-150 in 9.10 ,recording kills the tuner, anyone seen this ?"
date: 2009-11-26
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by jeremycobert on 2009-11-26
i have new 1TB hard drive so i just unplugged my old 1TB drive that is running 8.10 (with no problems)frontend/backend box.

I just unplug the old drive and plug in the new drive and have everything setup the same. i have 9.10 installed on the new drive.

these are my cards, i dont move them when i install 9.10 on the new drive.

HVR-2250,pctvHD-5500,pvr-150,pvr-150 

now im running 9.10 and if i just watch a live show on either of the pvr-150's they both work fine. i can pause forward , pretty much without a problem. i can switch inputs and use either card.

now when i have a recording scheduled the card tunes in and just goes into some sort of no signal screen like this picture on the right.

[IMG]http://lh5.ggpht.com/_W2d7y1aqvOg/Sw9Kq-OSUGI/AAAAAAAACc0/mbA8yyanEhY/s800/pvr150_issue.jpg[/IMG]

at that point the card is dead and cant be re-tuned in any form, i have to go into the backend and delete/ re-add it and try and rescan the us-cable frequency.

in the backend i use the IvTV mpeg2 selection for the pvr-150, i assume that's the correct selection. its named a little different in 9.10.

i don't know if it related, but the PVR-150 also suffer from a "no siganal lock" when i try and scan the analog cable. it gets stuck on channel 39 and wont move, but i can add the channels from schedules direct and it will then tune in live to all the correct channels.

again, if i switch back to my old hard drive (8.10) everything is fine.

if anyone has seen this or knows about it, please let me know. i can always switch back to 8.10, but i really want VDPAU support as the system gets pretty bogged down with this many recordings and trying to watch HD playback.

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2009-11-27
IPTV is internet protocal tv as far as I am aware. you should be using PVR-something-mpeg driver for that card. if you have a schedules direct account you shouldn't be scanning for any channels as they get pulled down from schedules direct. good luck

---

