---
title: "9.10 to 11.04  upgrade?"
date: 2011-06-30
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by tegwilym on 2011-06-30
A while back I tried upgrading my system to 10.10 and found that I couldn't get my serial IRBlaster to function at all no matter what I did, so I went back to 9.10 and have been sticking with that one for now.   I did get a message last night that there won't be any more support for 9.10 so I'm thinking I make another try at the upgrade and go to 11.04.  So my question.....

Has anyone with a Serial IRblaster had any better luck getting that to work with the newest Mythbuntu?   
I did see a letter in a recent issue of "Full Circle" magazine that someone published a fix for the IRBlaster thing.   I didn't try it, so not sure if it's good or not.  

Any comments, complaints or good thing to say about going to 11.04?  As long as it isn't running Unity I figure I should be ok!  ;)

Tom

---

### Post by ktmom on 2011-07-07
I can't help with this, but it occured to me that if you changed the title of yout thread to something more like "serial IRBlaster work on 11.04?" it would be easier to find for those who might be able to help.

---

### Post by tegwilym on 2011-07-07
> **ktmom said:**
> I can't help with this, but it occured to me that if you changed the title of yout thread to something more like "serial IRBlaster work on 11.04?" it would be easier to find for those who might be able to help.

Yeah, probably right!  More info is better.  My subject is kind of boring and easy to skip over.  I'll try that.  Thanks!  :-)

---

