---
title: "12.0.4.2 Mythbuntu and Nova-S-Plus not working in Myth, but works everywhere else"
date: 2013-08-27
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by drifting on 2013-08-27
Sigh

Just spent the last week trying to recover after an upgrade. Had to give up in the end, as I have to leave my Grans soon, and would like it working before I go.

Anyhoo, as title above, clean install. Can test the DVB_S cards in the machine, and I can view with Mplayer just fine. Have created a channels.conf file fine. 

However, Myth flatly refuses to recognise the  two Nova-S in this machine when setting them up on the backend, cannot read the full error message, but says something along the lines of "could not get cardid & sudset:unknown" Did some googling but found nothing conclusive. Any help appreciated.

---

### Post by drifting on 2013-09-13
Interesting that this has not reared it's head for anyone else? I have seen this now on my own test Myth unit, which has a Hauppauge USB stick, exactly the same error in mythbackend about not recognizing the card, when it works everywhere else on the machine? I have patched this machine to the latest .26 Updates.

---

### Post by drifting on 2013-09-14
Ok, Mythbuntu has problems. Or should I say I have now. 
This will be my 5 clean install. I removed the Nova-S and plugged in a Nova-TD USB. Guess what? same damn problem, the card is not recognize by Myth, yes dmesg see's it fine. Not used this card in a while, so not sure now if it is specifically Myth, which it seems it is.

Does anyone know if the drivers require the LNA on thing in options as way back? or is that done different now?

Going to try yet another install with an earlier version of Mythbuntu, which used to work fine.

---

