---
title: "12.04 - system locks, brings down network"
date: 2014-11-16
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by crbnrod on 2014-11-16
Hello, I have been running mythbuntu 12.04 for a couple years now seemingly problem-free. Have three machiens:  MBE/FE, SBE/FE and FE-only.

No changes made to any hardware/setup, but lately the MBE machine has been locking up - unable to wake via mouse/keyboard/remote - and when it locks up it also makes all other devices on network (running behind asus rt-n66) unable to access the network. If, while the machine is locked up, I unplug its ethernet cable from the wall, everything on the network returns to normal without any other intervention.

Been a while since I took a look at the hardware inside since it's been going strong, but I believe the important details are: 
Mobo: Asus M2N68-AM Plus
CPU: Athlon II X2 250
Video Card: nvidia 8400
Ethernet: onboard wired connection
Running 12.04 / myth .25
HDD are a 32gb SSD for OS and 500gb for recordings

Have tried simply reinstalling from scratch and restoring the database - everything on reinstall worked great and system (and all other machines) work as expected, however after some amount of time greater than 0 minutes, the BE machine locks up again and takes down the network...so problem not solved. 

I can identify in logs approx. when the lockup occurs, because the time-stamping stops, but in syslog and mythbackend log I don't see anything that looks out of place (can post if interested of course).

Any ideas on what I can look at next or what steps I can try? Not sure if there's a logfile I may be overlooking or anything along those lines. 

FWIW it appears someone w/a similar setup had a similar problem on a new install about a year back: [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-2184304.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-2184304.html)

---

### Post by neutron68 on 2014-11-16
I've had random system lockups with a Mythtv system before (back in myth 0.21 days).  After scouring logs after each lockup and finding no clues, I focused on hardware.  

When my machine locked up there was always a pattern of graphics garbage on the screen, pointing to the Asus A8N-VM CSM motherboard's onboard graphics chip (nvidia 6150).  Since I had a spare Asus A8N-VM CSM motherboard, I swapped motherboards (and reused the original memory sticks).  The lockups stopped right then, so I know it something on that original motherboard.  My best guess to the failure mechanism is that the onboard graphics chip was overheating and locking up the whole machine.

Given that your system has been running fine for several years, your lockup could be a recent-manifesting hardware problem related to your onboard Ethernet.  As a diagnostic step, you could try getting a cheap PCI Ethernet card (with a known Linux-compatible chipset like Realtek) and disable your onboard Ethernet in the motherboard's BIOS.  If Mythbuntu 12.04 still locks up with the PCI card, then you know it's not a hardware issue with your onboard Ethernet.  
Be aware, that Mythbuntu will name the new add-in Ethernet card 1 number higher than the onboard Ethernet chip, so you may have to adjust network settings to compensate.  Example: current Ethernet chip is likely eth0, so new PCI Ethernet will likely be eth1.

My current Mythbuntu 12.04 machine (with myth 0.27.4) has a [Realtek Gigabit PCI card]("http://www.microcenter.com/product/243519/32-bit_10-100-1000Mbps_Copper_Gigabit_PCI_Adapter") in it and has been working very well.
Mythbuntu correctly sees it and identifies it (using the lspci command):  01:07.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8169 PCI Gigabit Ethernet Controller (rev 10)

I hope this diagnostic idea helps.
Eric

---

### Post by khPWXxF on 2014-11-16
> [COLOR=#000000]Been a while since I took a look at the hardware inside[/COLOR]
Dust buildup & blocked airflow causing overheating?
Phil

---

### Post by neutron68 on 2014-11-16
> **khPWXxF said:**
> Dust buildup & blocked airflow causing overheating?
Phil
That's a good point!  

After checking:
1. all fans and heat sinks are free of dust, 
2. all fans are still turning and moving air ok

and you still have a lockup problem, then try swapping the Ethernet cards, etc.

Eric

---

