---
title: ".24 broke mythweb"
date: 2010-11-27
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by cander611 on 2010-11-27
I was using .23 successfully and upgraded to .24.  After that mythweb doesn't work.  When I first go to the page I get just a couple words and "reset template and skins to default".  I click that and it looks normal.  The problem is if I click anything after that it fails.  For example if I click Setup I get the following message:

Warning at /usr/share/mythtv/mythweb/modules/settings/handler.php, line 61:
!!NoTrans: require_once(modules/settings/tmpl/iPod/header.php): failed to open stream: No such file or directory!!

I tried removing mythweb and reinstalling it through the Mythbuntu Control Center.  Any other ideas?

---

### Post by thatguruguy on 2010-11-27
Is your mythweb password-protected through the mythbuntu control center?  I couldn't get mythweb to launch until I set up password protection.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2010-11-27
FWIW I get the same thing when connecting from my android phone under the "default skin" (rather than the mobile skin).

Doesn't happen on the computer though.

---

### Post by cander611 on 2010-11-27
I've tried to access it from Chrome and IE7.  In the error it gives me it mentions a folder names iPod.  Could it be trying to serve up pages for a mobile browser?  Is there a way to just reset it completely?  Maybe remove it using the Control Center and then delete some folders, then reinstall it?

I do have it password protected.  It opens and lets me log in using my password.

---

### Post by thatguruguy on 2010-11-28
It sounds like you're pointing to mythexport rather than mythweb.

---

### Post by cander611 on 2010-11-28
I don't think it's Mythexport.  If I click the "reset template" link at the bottom of the page it looks normal, but I can't click any of the links.  Another weird thing is I used to be able to just type in the IP address of my Myth box, but now I have to add /mythweb to the end of the IP.  If I don't I just see a white page saying "It works".  I found some similar issues on the MythTv developers site.  It sounds like a path was changed somewhere and the web pages for MythTv need to be moved to a different location.  I don't know much about web pages or Apache servers so I can't do a lot of troubleshooting.

Another thing I found was that if I use my Blackberry and browse to Mythweb I get the same page I'm seeing from my laptop, except the links work.  Am I seeing the mobile site from my computer's browser?

---

