---
title: "8.04 RC Won't Boot"
date: 2008-04-23
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by igb on 2008-04-23
I want to convert one of my front ends from the SVN version of Myth to Mythbuntu. It's an Asus Pundit with an Intel 386 processor and an ATI 9100 IGP graphics card.

When I try to boot the live CD the kernel loads and I get about 30 seconds of the Mythbuntu logo and I am dumped to a Busybox prompt. Same happens if I try to check the CD. However, I believe the CD is OK because:

I have tried different CD's burnt with different drives.
The same CD's work fine on three other computers.
A Kubuntu Hardy RC CD boots fine.

I have tried booting in safe graphics mode with the same result.

Any suggestions as to how to proceed from here?

Ian.

---

### Post by laga on 2008-04-23
Yes, you can try the alternate disk: [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mythbuntu/daily/20080422.1/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mythbuntu/daily/20080422.1/)

It's not perfect, but as good as it gets for this release. It's possible you'll be asked to enter your mysql root password multiple times. Can you please post any oddities you encounter with this disk here (maybe write them down so you don't forget them ;))? 

Let me know how it works for you! Thanks.

---

### Post by igb on 2008-04-24
Thanks that worked. I have a few minor niggles though:)

I can't enter the network settings from the GUI. I presume the Unlock button on the dialog box should prompt me for my password. It just gives a Gnome error. I resorted to vim in a terminal.

When I came to add extra codecs from the Mythbuntu control centre (which is generally excellent), I couldn't tick the 32 bit codec boxes after ticking the extra codecs box. This worked after the initial update but IMHO you should be able to tick both extra codecs and either 32 or 64 bit in one operation.

The installer doesn't give me the chance to enter my Myth settings manually. I just get the message about "dpkg --reconfigure some very long and promptly forgotten command". Again fixed by editing mysql.txt with vim:)

Some initial playing indicates that everything in MythTV works as expected.  That's good news fr me as I would have been toast if the kitchen frontend had stopped working:)

Ian.

---

