---
title: "14.04.1 LTS upgrade question"
date: 2014-08-12
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by briktoo on 2014-08-12
Hello - I have a question about upgrades.

I upgraded from MythTV .26 to .27 via the Mythbuntu repos about a month ago. I have the latest patches (as of yesterday).

Today I am offered, via the Update Manager, 14.04.1 LTS ubuntu release as well as the latest mythTV fixes.

is it "safe" to upgrade to 14.04.1? i want to stay current on security patches and stability. I will do the .27 fixes now.

Additional info.............
When I went from .26 to .27 I encountered a few issues, two still unresolved.
First unresolved issue - After a period of time, a couple of days or so, my backend (which has a FE installed) will not allow SQL database connections from the FE (FE on the BE machine) or from Mythfilldatabase. The FE log says "Waiting for database schema upgrade lock". If I stop and then restart MySQL then the FE starts fine and Mythfilldatabase runs without error. The remote front end machines do not have any issue connecting (That I have noticed). 

Second weirdness - Channel icons do not show when I browse channel changes but do show on the guide, the effects only the remote FE, not the FE on the backend server.

I'm conflicted - 
Do I upgrade to 14.04.1 in hopes these issues are fixed in the latest and greatest?
Do I not upgrade to 14.04.1 and just troubleshoot my two issues?

I read in another post someone suggested NOT upgrading to 14.04.1 unless new hardware support is needed. I'm on an older P4 backend and have zero known hardware issues. I do use EXT4 and I read in the release notes there is better performance with 14.04.1 for EXT4. I do not have significant performance issues currently unless I have 3 FEs all watching TV while the BE is doing commercial detection. 

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by topcat5 on 2014-08-12
On the channel icons, I ran into this too.  Found the answer in the Wiki.   

As of 0.27, the channel icons have to be in /home/mythtv/.mythtv/channels.   or the userid that is actually running the backend.  You can create a symbolic link here to where ever you have them stored and it will fix it on the remote FEs.

---

### Post by briktoo on 2014-08-12
> **topcat5 said:**
> On the channel icons, I ran into this too.  Found the answer in the Wiki.   

As of 0.27, the channel icons have to be in /home/mythtv/.mythtv/channels.   or the userid that is actually running the backend.  You can create a symbolic link here to where ever you have them stored and it will fix it on the remote FEs.

Thanks topcat5 - Yes, read that in the release notes. I have them in the correct location. They DO show in the guide correctly. They just don't show in the lower third browse screen when I use the up/down buttons on the remote.

Thoughts on the main question, regarding if its safe to upgrade to 14.04.1 or will I just introduce MORE weirdness?

---

### Post by topcat5 on 2014-08-13
The upgrade did OK for me.  The Live player is more tolerant of flakey signals. Finally, the HVR 2250 I have reports signal strength.   On the other hand, I am trying to sort out a video tearing problem on my main front end.  It's running vdpau 2x advanced interlacing on a GT 630 card.  Playback was flawless on on Mythbuntu 12.04, but now, on 14 (latest fixes) there is tearing during horizontal pans and motion.   I've yet to sort it out.   Interestingly, I don't see it on a Atom/Ion2 FE.   

I did leave another FE at 12.03 and simply upgraded mythbuntu to 0.27.  It works fine with the upgraded BE.   I haven't done the upgrade on it because of the pain I will endure to recreate the remote control things I did to it to accomidate the wierd MCE Vista remote IR dongle connected to it.

If you like the Blue Abstract theme, there has not been an upgrade created for it.  I think the owner has stopped working on it.    However you can reuse one of the older versions, IMO 0.9 > 1.0.

---

