---
title: "[8.04] LIRC for PVR-150 not workin"
date: 2008-03-02
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Calash on 2008-03-02
So, despite the little voice in my head that screamed for me not to...I upgraded my Mythbuntu box to 8.04.  I was already running the 0.21 version of Mythbuntu so I figured why not.....


Well, it is almost working.  However my remote, the standard Hauppauge PVR-150 refuses to work. In mythbuntu-control-center I set it to "Hauppauge TV Card"...I think that is the correct setting.  Well it loads everything up but does nothing.

When I restart lirc via command line I get the following

```

 * Unable to load LIRC kernel modules. Verify your
 * selected kernel modules in /etc/lirc/hardware.conf

```

Here is my current hardware.conf

```

# /etc/lirc/hardware.conf
#
#Chosen Remote Control
REMOTE="Hauppauge TV card"
REMOTE_MODULES="lirc_dev lirc_i2c"
REMOTE_DRIVER=""
REMOTE_DEVICE="/dev/lirc0"
REMOTE_LIRCD_CONF="hauppauge/lircd.conf.hauppauge"
REMOTE_LIRCD_ARGS=""

#Chosen IR Transmitter
TRANSMITTER="None"
TRANSMITTER_MODULES=""
TRANSMITTER_DRIVER=""
TRANSMITTER_DEVICE=""
TRANSMITTER_LIRCD_CONF=""
TRANSMITTER_LIRCD_ARGS=""

#Enable lircd
START_LIRCD="true"

#Don't start lircmd even if there seems to be a good config file
#START_LIRCMD="false"

#Try to load appropriate kernel modules
LOAD_MODULES="true"

# Default configuration files for your hardware if any
LIRCMD_CONF=""

#Forcing noninteractive reconfiguration
#If lirc is to be reconfigured by an external application
#that doesn't have a debconf frontend available, the noninteractive
#frontend can be invoked and set to parse REMOTE and TRANSMITTER
#It will then populate all other variables without any user input
#If you would like to configure lirc via standard methods, be sure
#to leave this set to "false"
FORCE_NONINTERACTIVE_RECONFIGURATION="false"
START_LIRCMD=""

```

Can anybody give me some guidance on how to fix this problem?

Thanks

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-03-02
Please check what kernel you are booted into.  If its not the "generic" kernel (but the 386), reboot into the generic kernel. 
If it is the 386, did you explicitly install it?

If not, then you sir have a caught a bug.  Save your dpkg.log and upgrade logs so we can do some forensics.

---

### Post by Calash on 2008-03-02
uname -r showed me the following version

2.6.24-11-386

The only thing I did was update-manager -c -d and ran the distro upgrade it lists there.

Checking GRUB on a reboot I have 4 Kernel versions listed from 2.6.20-16 Generic up to 2.6.24-10 Generic, with 2.6.24-11-i386 being my current default.


I ran Update-manager again and the generic was listed, so I applied it and everythign is working now.  May have just been an issue with my setup, it is quite tweaked out :)

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-03-02
Well the thing is you aren't the first one to report this.  Please file a bug and attach the logs I indicated in the first post.  The 3 other people that have reported it thought it might have just been their setup too, but that's seeming less and less likely :)

---

### Post by Calash on 2008-03-02
Will do.  Where are the logs located?  I want to make sure I get the correct onces.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-03-02
Everything is in /var/log

there should be a dpkg.log for sure.  The update manager log i'm not sure what it's titled, but nothing else should stand out that can possibly be it.

---

### Post by ptipton on 2008-05-23
Was any progress made on this? I have same error message when starting lirc after upgrade from gutsy to hardy am using kernel 2.6.24-16 generic. Thanks.

---

### Post by kenmiles on 2008-05-24
Same here. Some buttons work and others do not.
Regards, Kenneth.

---

### Post by kenmiles on 2008-05-27
> **kenmiles said:**
> Same here. Some buttons work and others do not.
Regards, Kenneth.

Just updated to the latest kernel 2.6.24-17-generic and the problem is still there, although the camera is now mounting when connected to usb.
Regards, Kenneth.

---

### Post by ptipton on 2008-05-27
Strange thing is 4 days ago I reinstalled linux image generic, linux ubuntu modules and linux restricted modules and the PVR150 blaster started functioning correctly. Just now let the machine automatically update which loaded the new 2.6.24-17-generic kernel and now am back to square one with blaster not working.

---

### Post by usererror on 2008-05-27
this this bug specific to PVR-150's?  I have a PVR-250 and 1600 but have not yet upgraded to 8.04 ...

---

### Post by ptipton on 2008-05-27
Tried reinstalling the modules again as per previous post but when I try to restart lirc get:
administrator@ubuntuserver:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/lirc restart
 * Stopping remote control daemon(s): LIRC                               [fail] 
 * Loading LIRC modules                                                  [ OK ] 
 * Unable to load LIRC kernel modules. Verify your
 * selected kernel modules in /etc/lirc/hardware.conf

Which is exactly what I got immediately after upgrading to Hardy before upgrading the modules the first time.

---

### Post by ptipton on 2008-05-27
booting back to 2.6.20-16 Generic through grub and blaster works fine again

---

### Post by chios240 on 2008-06-03
I also am running a PVR-150 along with a PVR-350.
New Install and this is my first time installing Linux.  When I configure the Infrared Devices to 
ENABLE REMOTE CONTROL
--Hauppauge TV card
ENABLE IR TRANSMITTER
--HAuppage Pvr-150 Drectv
Neither IR receiver works, the 150 or the 350.  Together or separately plugged in to their respective cards.
When I just 
ENABLE REMOTE CONTROL
--Hauppauge TV card
And I use the 350 card it all works fine.
If I use the 150 card it does not work.
Any suggestions?

---

### Post by destructar on 2008-07-31
I'm running 2.6.24-19-generic and getting the same error message when attempting to start lirc.

I am assuming there hasn't been a solution to this yet?

---

### Post by jetsurgeon on 2008-08-02
Tag

Same problem I'm having.

---

### Post by Nate B. on 2008-08-06
Success!  8)

I'm not really sure what I did except that in the course of playing around it came up working (8.04.1).

First I did a `dpkg-reconfigure lirc' and selected None for both the remote and transmitter.  Then I re-ran it and selected "Hauppage TV Card" for the remote and None for the transmitter.  Afterward it ran the init scripts and the daemon line failed.  Yet `ps' showed that lircd was running (maybe it hadn't been stopped?).

So I tried to run `irrecord' and it failed saying that "/dev/lirc" didn't exist and that lircd was running. I ran `/etc/init.d/lirc stop' and `irrecord' still failed to run, so I made a sym-link of /dev/lirc that pointed to /dev/lirc0 and irrecord ran.  Instead of continuing on I tried `irw' after restarting lircd with `/etc/init.d/lirc start' and whaddayaknow, `irw' started reading key codes and they were the correct ones!

The Myth frontend still didn't respond (I was working through an ssh connection for the above commands) so I restarted it and Myth now responds to my remote.  Cool!

The next test will be if it works after the next reboot as I have a DVD+R/RW to install in the box.

I have the silver topped Hauppage remote that is identifed as the "350" with a PVR-150 card.  I'm not using the IR transmitter as I'm able to control my satellite box via a serial cable.

Considering that I started this process ten days ago, I figure that having every major component working is amazing given that I've probably spent 6 to 8 hours actually configuring it.  I've probably spent close to triple of that just playing around.  I'm pleased and impressed.  My thanks to the Mythbuntu crew.

:guitar:

---

