---
title: "[8.04]  nVidia SVIDEO output to TV only (no monitor)"
date: 2008-03-02
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by tr333 on 2008-03-02
I'm having a bit of trouble getting the screen to display properly when connecting to a TV (PAL-B) via SVIDEO.  The output is currently running at 1024x768 and the video output seems to be slightly larger than the TV viewing area, so the menu bar is currently hidden above the top of the TV display.  How can I shrink the output to display inside the TV display area?


xorg.conf:
```
Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    #Option         "DPMS"
    HorizSync      30-50
    VertRefresh    60
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Generic Video Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "DPI" "100x100"
    Option         "UseEvents" "1"
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "1"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "1"
    Option         "NoLogo" "1"
    Option         "UseDisplayDevice" "TV"
    Option         "TVOutFormat" "SVIDEO"
    Option         "TVStandard" "PAL-B"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Generic Video Card"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select" "1024x768" "720x576" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Rickytoo on 2008-03-02
I experience the same. I find that by adjusting the TV screen by its remote control, I can see the entire image (ie 4:3, 4:9, wide, zoom etc.).

---

### Post by tr333 on 2008-03-02
My TV doesn't seem to have those settings.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-03-02
There should be a slider in nvidia-settings for this.  Alternatively, you can also adjust the screen area directly inside Myth.  8.04 has settings for this inside Myth.  The benefit of the former is that its system wide.

---

### Post by tr333 on 2008-03-02
> **superm1 said:**
> There should be a slider in nvidia-settings for this.  Alternatively, you can also adjust the screen area directly inside Myth.  8.04 has settings for this inside Myth.  The benefit of the former is that its system wide.

I just looked in nvidia-settings and could not see any slider for configuring this.  Where should I be looking?

Looking at the display tab, the resolution was set to 1024x768.  Changing this to 720x576 seemed to make the example image in the "Layout" area a bit smaller, which seemed like it might then fit inside the screen area.  Clicking on "Apply" then made the display go even larger than it was previously, whereas on a normal computer screen it would have just resized everything to fit inside the physical screen dimensions.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-03-02
I dont have an analog tv that i can look at to check, but i want to say when you pick tv-0 you should see a whole bunch of sliders related to tv output.

---

### Post by jakev383 on 2008-03-02
I have the same problem with a MII 10000 Via board. During bootup the text is all viewable on the screen, but once Myth boots up I lose the outer borders. For example when viewing recordings, I lose the "All" for "All Recordings". In the window manager, adjusting the display settings to anything other than "Default" would cause a zoom effect, cutting off even more of the borders.
Can you say where the adjustment is to scale the screen?
Thanks.

Edit: Just realized this is a 8.04 post - I'm running 7.10 on my end. Sorry!

---

### Post by r_endymion on 2008-03-02
Open nvidia-settings.

The last item under GPU 0 should be TV-0.

Slide the TV Overscan slider until the GUI fills the screen.

---

### Post by tr333 on 2008-03-03
> **r_endymion said:**
> Open nvidia-settings.

The last item under GPU 0 should be TV-0.

Slide the TV Overscan slider until the GUI fills the screen.

I opened nvidia-settings and clicked on the TV-0 item, the last item under GPU 0.  The only things listed here are:

[list][*]TV Encoder: NVIDIA
[*]TV Refresh Rate: 50.00Hz
[*]Digital Vibrance slider, currently set at 448.0
[*]Image Sharpening slider, currently set at 110.0
[/list]

I can't see any slider listed for "TV Overscan".  Do I need to install newer drivers from the nVidia website to enable this?

---

### Post by r_endymion on 2008-03-03
I used [[color=red]Envy[/color]](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html) to aotomatically install the proper nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by tr333 on 2008-03-03
Thanks for the tip.  I might try the latest drivers with envy.

---

### Post by tr333 on 2008-03-04
I just installed the latest nvidia drivers (169.12) with apt-get and nothing has changed with nvidia-settings.  I still can't see any option to reduce the overscan on TV-OUT.

---

### Post by zzztownsend on 2008-03-08
tr333:

I have the same problems with the nvidia 8400 GS card. I haven't been able to solve the problem using the nvidia driver - tried forcing various options and using the nvidia settings tool. I suggest you go to nvnews.net - linux forum and post your problem. Follow their bug reporting an perhaps also email them.

I have a work around which is to use the 'vesa' videodriver - picture appears correcty onthe screen but I do get some jerky video - not ideal

Post again if you don't know how to set to using the vesa driver

Cheers

Matt

---

### Post by tr333 on 2008-03-08
I would probably use the 'nv' driver in place of the generic vesa driver.  It seems to have the same effect on the display area.  If I can manage to get my internet/wireless going properly then I might just leave it on the nvidia driver with the overscan problem and just fix it from within MythTV for watching DVDs.

---

### Post by Melk79 on 2009-10-04
Did anyone from this thread ever sort this out? I'm in Karmic beta now and still have the same issue explained on this thread.  Can't seem to get video to properly fill my tv screen.  It's always too big and I can't see the panels, etc.  I've searched a lot about this and many potential fixes involve editing xorg, which doesn't seem like the right thing to do anymore considering how minimal that file has become.  Any thoughts?

---

### Post by tr333 on 2009-10-06
I just gave up on trying to get the smaller video output size and moved to managing the computer over VNC.  Mythbuntu has an option in the MythbuntuControlCentre to enable the VNC service with an optional password (highly recommended).

---

