---
title: "XBMC frontend not seeing MythBuntu backend across Network"
date: 2014-10-27
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Mike_Brown on 2014-10-27
I have just finished setting up a Mythbuntu box (14.04/.27.4). 

I have set up XBMC-KODI 13.2 &#8220;Gotham&#8221; in Windows 8.1 which I want to use as a FrontEnd. I cannot, however, access the Myth Backend from XBMC. I can access the Mythweb from Chrome or Internet Explorer.

I have the Mythbuntu box set up with a Static IP address and am inputting this to the MythTV app in XBMC. Whenever I click on 'Enable' in XBMC, I get error messages about every 10 sec saying that the server is not available.

I'm not sure if the problem is in the MythTV box or XBMC.

Any advice would be appreciated.

---

### Post by mattlach on 2014-10-27
> **Mike_Brown said:**
> I have just finished setting up a Mythbuntu box (14.04/.27.4). 

I have set up XBMC-KODI 13.2 “Gotham” in Windows 8.1 which I want to use as a FrontEnd. I cannot, however, access the Myth Backend from XBMC. I can access the Mythweb from Chrome or Internet Explorer.

I have the Mythbuntu box set up with a Static IP address and am inputting this to the MythTV app in XBMC. Whenever I click on 'Enable' in XBMC, I get error messages about every 10 sec saying that the server is not available.

I'm not sure if the problem is in the MythTV box or XBMC.

Any advice would be appreciated.

Have you entered the database password into the frontend?  

I had this very similar problem, and this was what solved it for me. 

It can be confusing, because the database password is not the four digit pin, but rather a randomized alphanumeric phrase automatically generated by mythBuntu during install.

The XBMC PVR frontend must match this password in order for things to work.

If you don't know the password, one way to find it is as follows.

Log into the machine containing your mythtv backend via SSH (or open a terminal on the mythtv backend machine)

type the following command:
```

grep Password ~/.mythtv/config.xml

```

What you should see is your database password between two xml tags (<Password> and </Password>)

It should be a randomly generated 8 character string of uppercase, lowercase and numerical charaters.

Use this password in your XBMC PVR Plugin frontend configuration, where prompted.

It is also possible to change this password to something easier to remember, but then you have to both change the entry in the config.xml file AND do some SQL wizardry which I don't quite understand, so it is easier to just use the randomly generated string.   

(I took a picture of mine with my phone, in order to remember it when I need it)

Hope this helps!

---

### Post by Mike_Brown on 2014-10-27
I hoped it would be that easy -- I have not entered that into XBMC -- will do that when I get home later.

Thanks

---

### Post by larsolav on 2014-10-27
I just set up my XBMC over the weekend!
Are you using the cmyth plugin in XBMC? If so, do this:

Go to Settings -> Add-ons -> Enabled add-ons -> PVR Clients and select the MythTV add-on
Select "Configure"

Input the IP address of the backend, MythTV Backend Port (default is 6543, keep if you didn't change it on the backend), DBUserName (mythtv), database name (may say mythtv, change to mythconverg), and the password mentioned above.

Once you do all that, you may still not be able to connect even with all the correct info. Because of XMBC has tried to connect incorrectly so many times, the backend may have blocked the XBMC frontend. I was able to take care of this by rebooting the backend.

---

### Post by khPWXxF on 2014-10-28
Also:  In the mythtv backend setup > general first page you need to put its IP address in twice.  It's probably set to 127.0.0.1 or 'localhost'.

First field on the page  'local backend' IPv4 address
and at bottom of screen:  Master Backend IP address.

Phil

---

