---
title: "10.04 Slow Audio"
date: 2010-09-12
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Just4Fun20 on 2010-09-12
I've been using MythBuntu for years and have been very happy with it.  Somewhat older hardware but it's been working great through at least 6 cycles of MythBuntu.  

I recently upgraded to 10.04.  I grabbed a "spare" hard drive and installed clean, using the ISO image, not an upgrade.  No installation problems.  

I primarily use MythBuntu to watch videos.  I believe that uses mplayer.  I really like the new pop up menu to rescan for changes.

On perhaps half of my videos, many of which worked before, the audio is "Slow".  I don't know what else to call it.  It sounds like the audio is playing at 1/8th speed while the video is normal.  If I exit the frontend and use VLC they play fine.  

Two questions - 
  First - Any thoughts on how to fix it?  It sounds like a codec problem to me but I haven't noticed a pattern in the file types.  
  Second - A fairly obvious workaround is to use VLC as the default player.  The problem is that they seem to have changed those screens and I don't know how to change it.  It just says "internal" now (Under Player Settings - Default Player).  Can I just replace "internal" with "vlc file://%s vlc://quit"?  What is the "alternate player" down at the bottom and how is it used?

Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2010-09-12
Hi,

Internal is the video player from mythtv, rather than an external program (mplayer/vlc).

You can change the default video player just change the command to:-

mplayer -fs -zoom -cache 10192 -vo vdpau -alang eng  -vid 0 -ao alsa

NOTE: the options -vo  set hardware acceleration,-alang default audio language,-vid default video,-ao audio output source.
 
for the playback Default Player and for the video types that you want to play with mplayer set the option for standard player under file types.

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by Just4Fun20 on 2010-09-18
I reinstalled (complete, from the 10.04 ISO) to get this working.  It didn't help.  

For specific file types MP4 it plays the audio at 1/4 to 1/8th speed.  It's not for all MP4 files either so it's something very specific to an audio codec.  This worked on my previous release.  I even put the old drive (with the old build) back in  and booted it up to verify this.  

**How can I reload a specific codec?**  (or is that the best fix?)

I could not get mplayer or VLC to pull up as the default player.  My only solution now is to exit the Myth Frontend, open VLC and then open the file.  Not user friendly for the rest of the family.  

**Specific to 10.04 (which seems to be different) how can I make VLC work?**  I go into the settings screen and define the player by file extension.  So, for example, for MP4 file type instead of "internal" I plug in "VLC file://%S vlc://quit".  I've tried many variations on this line command but can't get it to work.  By leaving off the quit command, it opens VLC but seems to have trouble finding the file, I think due to paths (I use a symbolic link to an archive directory if that matters). 

I hope bolding is not like shouting.  Please let me know the proper etiquette on that.  I'm just trying to make the questions obvious instead of all the background chatter.  

Thanks in advance for any help.

---

