---
title: "8.10 to 10.10"
date: 2010-11-09
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by fatmonk on 2010-11-09
I started a new thread so that I can update this first post with answers to my questions to serve as a FAQ for anyone else upgrading from 8.10 to 10.10.

It feels like a big thing to be rebuilding a system that has worked fairly well for me for the last 18-24 months, but I still don;t have a working remote or built-in LCD screen and there are new features in 10.10 that I'd very much like, so I feel I need to take the plunge... there are a lot of things playing on my mind though...


Q1. I want to keep all of my recordings. Will an 8.10 database backup restore into a 10.10 fresh installation?

Q2. If the answer to question 1 is 'no', then will running through the sequential upgrades through Synaptic get me to a point with my 8.10 database that means I have a 10.10 compatible database?

Q3. I can't find 8.10 for download anywhere and I've misplaced my original install CD. If I can't get 10.10 working, is there somewhere that I can get hold of 8.10 still to make sure I have a roll back plan?

Q4. Mythbuntu 10.10 apparently supports the Antec Veris Fusion 430 remote control with the bundled version of lirc. Does this also apply to the LCD/VFD driver?

Q5. There is some talk that leads me to believe that DVD ripping and /or streaming has been removed from the version of MythTV that is included with MythBuntu. Is this the case?

Q6. After upgrading, will my recordings still show the correct source channels?

Q7. [future question]

Q8. [future question]

Q9. [future question]

Q10. [future question]


I'll do a bit more digging about for answers myself, but if anyone has answers off the top of their hed to any of the questions then feel free to reply and I'll incorporate them into this first post.

I'll also reseve the next couple of posts in case I need to reorganise this thread a bit as answers and solutions start to come together.

Cheers,

FM

---

### Post by fatmonk on 2010-11-09
[reserved for future]

---

### Post by fatmonk on 2010-11-09
[also reserved for future]

---

