---
title: "9.10 automatic login not working &amp; power button does nothing"
date: 2009-11-10
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by IndieRockSteve on 2009-11-10
back in the old days of mythbuntu, if I logged out or killed X, the login manager would automatically log me back in after something like 10seconds. 9.10 no longer does this.

Also,
back in the old days of mythbuntu, if I hit the power button, X would kill and take me to the login manager, which, see above. 9.10 no longer does this.

I really enjoyed both of those features and would love to get them back with 9.10, anyone know how to do this easily?

thanks!

---

### Post by SiHa on 2009-11-11
Not sure about the auto-login after an X restart, but you can change the power button behaviour. It's in the System > Power submenu on the desktop IIRC. Not sure why Mythbuntu defaults to 'Do Nothing' now, maybe to stop idle little fingers?

---

### Post by chipppy on 2009-11-11
Good Evening

Try the following thread and see if it helps

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308845&highlight=auto+login]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308845&highlight=auto+login")
Cheers
Chipppy

---

### Post by MCunha on 2009-12-31
> **SiHa said:**
> Not sure about the auto-login after an X restart, but you can change the power button behaviour. It's in the System > Power submenu on the desktop IIRC. Not sure why Mythbuntu defaults to 'Do Nothing' now, maybe to stop idle little fingers?
Hi,
 
How can I change the power button behaviour in command line (karmic)?
 
Thanks in advance.
 
EDIT: sorry to post this question in the wrong session. I open several threads and didnt't saw this one are in Mythbuntu...

---

