---
title: "[8.04] - fstab change, is this a bug?"
date: 2008-04-07
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Calash on 2008-04-07
My current system has 3 hard drives in it

80gb for OS
160gb for Music, Videos, and now Database backups
160gb for Recordings and LiveTV cache

I ran the upgrades I had pending Saturday, about 130 in total.  After rebooting I found LiveTV and Recordings did not work.

I did my research and found that my /etc/fstab file had been changed, commenting out all my drive mountings and replacing them with the UUID, except for my final drive which was still listed with the old /dev/hdd1.

I altered this entry to use the UUID and ran mount -a, everything came back fine.

Is this a bug that I should report?

---

### Post by Mrbbad on 2008-04-08
I don't know if this is something you should report.  I did want to mention a semi-similar-ish issue.  Once after one of those 100+ patch sessions for whatever reason my second hard drive went from hdb1 to hsd1 (i'm NOT listing those correctly)...

It didn't change my fstab file, but it did mess with where it thought things were.

Who knows why.

---

### Post by Calash on 2008-04-09
Looking over my setup this is what happened to me, everything is now /dev/hs?? when it use to be /dev/hd??

It looks like part of the change was to update the fstab, which added the UUID for each mapping.  On mine if missed the last entry, for my recording drive.

---

### Post by Mrbbad on 2008-04-10
Yup, thankfully it is easy to fix -- though WHY it happens is amazingly strange -- and why it isn't smart enough to fix itself, meh...

Could be worse...my mythtv install corrupted on my 3rd re-install in general, i had to reinstall mythtv itself.

I *DREAD* updates.  In fact, I'm resolved to not updating anything unless I deem it utmost importance.

---

### Post by Calash on 2008-04-10
I love them myself...but I am a bit of a geek and have no issue with spending an entire night fixing my system :).  So far Hardy has been good to me, with only a few issue that were more my fault than an actual bug.

---

