---
title: "8.04 - No sound in Mythweb player"
date: 2008-03-16
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by wombo on 2008-03-16
I installed Mythbuntu back in release 8.04 Alpha1 and have been updating ever since.

Ever since I installed the system I have beena able to play back video via mythweb (embedded in the browser) but have not had any sound.

does anyone have any ideas? I dont think it is a problem on the client end as I have tried multiple machines (Vista, xp and Ubuntu)

Thanks

---

### Post by Nikas on 2008-03-16
Activate all the Proprietary Codecs in Mythbuntu Control Centre.

---

### Post by wombo on 2008-03-20
I just checked that the 3 available to be checked are checked.

Any other ideas?

---

### Post by wombo on 2008-03-23
Any ideas out there? I cant seem to find any answers in google.

Thanks

---

### Post by duckville on 2008-04-24
It's very strange, it maybe an issue with ffmpeg but I'm not actually sure.
I'm experiencing the same error at the moment.
mythbackend, is on my server, everything works fine except audio in the mythweb flash playback.

---

### Post by Nikas on 2008-04-24
Yes. It's strange. I had the same problem before i activated the Proprietary Codecs in Mythbuntu Control Centre. Had to do a apt-get update/upgrade too.

---

### Post by Chris86 on 2008-05-02
Hi,
the following works for me on Ubuntu 8.04 Server:

[LIST=1]
[*]Install restricted formats: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats#head-7dc8d31ff5c7ccda3d326c0c17763853d296dc07]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats#head-7dc8d31ff5c7ccda3d326c0c17763853d296dc07")

[*]Install w32codecs & libdvdcss2: [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/install-mplayer-and-multimedia-codecs-libdvdcss2w32codecsw64codecs-in-ubuntu-804-hardy-heron.html]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com/install-mplayer-and-multimedia-codecs-libdvdcss2w32codecsw64codecs-in-ubuntu-804-hardy-heron.html")

[*]Upgrade ffmpeg

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
[/LIST]

It may suffice to install the restricted formats and upgrade ffmpeg without installing w32codecs. I can't evaluate that since I upgraded ffmpeg after installing w32codecs.

Good luck

---

### Post by [Psyduck] on 2008-05-02
You need to have the ffmpeg package from the Medibuntu repository  installed **on the computer where the webserver/mythweb is running**.

Perhaps you need to do an update after activating the "restricted formats"

---

### Post by gr8nash on 2008-05-04
> **'[Psyduck] said:**
> You need to have the ffmpeg package from the Medibuntu repository  installed **on the computer where the webserver/mythweb is running**.

Perhaps you need to do an update after activating the "restricted formats"

Yeah thats what worked for me too.. i also didnt have sound on the flash player, until i upgraded FFMPEG to the version in mediabuntu.  The current flash player is hard set to 4:3 which sucks on HD content.. so i changed the aspect ratio in a config file in the www\mythweb folder im still tyring to remember the name of the file..but it can be done..i have 16:9 content streaming now

---

### Post by duckville on 2008-05-05
Finally...

I've now got everything working as it should. I did use the medibuntu repos to install ffmpeg, but I still had no sound. i then did:
apt-get --purge remove ffmpeg -y && apt-get --purge autoremove -y && apt-get clean && apt-get install ffmpeg -y && reboot.

Now is all fine, it may have been just the reboot that was required as my backends were up for 23+ days.

---

### Post by dmartin on 2008-12-16
I ran into this problem as well, and it took a ton of searching to find a solution that worked.  For posterity, I got it working by:

1) In Synaptic, search for libavcodec, and use Force Version from the Package dropdown to ensure you have the libavcodec from the Medibuntu repo.

2) Edit /usr/share/mythtv/mythweb/modules/stream/handler.pl and find around line 166, and change this:
```
.' -r 24 -f flv -ac 2 -ar 11025'
```
to this:
```
.' -r 24 -f flv -ac 2 -ar 11025 -acodec mp3'
```

That forces the flv conversion to output mp3 audio.  After this change, a simple refresh of the page and flash streaming with audio should work.

---

### Post by Verzweifler on 2009-01-14
dmartin's hint worked like a charm for me; however, I'd like to add that you should consider to "Lock version" of libavcodec after forcing it to the medibuntu-version in Synaptic, otherwise you probably "re-upgrade" it to the hardy-proposed version by accident...

Thanks dmartin!

---

