---
title: "7.10 myhtbuntu and watch tv"
date: 2007-10-25
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by pumo on 2007-10-25
I downloaded final release last sunday from [http://osuosl.cdimages.mythbuntu.org/](http://osuosl.cdimages.mythbuntu.org/) 
just before it was announced, and installed to my computer. everything went well, and all works.
I have to download image again and installed to my friends computer, it scans channels from dvb-t, kaffeine shows picture sometimes its pinky/green. 
but mythtv watch tv just won't lock. md5sum is right. 
what might be wrong ?

edit: mythfrontend.log after starting wathc tv: 
>  2007-10-25 18:12:58.770 New DB connection, total: 4
2007-10-25 18:12:58.773 Connected to database 'mythconverg' at host: localhost
2007-10-25 18:12:58.778 Connected to database 'mythconverg' at host: localhost
2007-10-25 18:12:59.941 TV: Attempting to change from WatchingLiveTV to None
2007-10-25 18:13:00.007 TV: Changing from WatchingLiveTV to None
2007-10-25 18:13:00.016 DPMS Reactivated.



---

### Post by superm1 on 2007-10-25
Having a pink/green picture is typical of not being able to get a strong enough (or too strong) of a signal.  I would recommend removing any extra amplification if you have it, but if you don't have any then adding some.

---

### Post by pumo on 2007-10-26
I thought it could be problem. but crashed when I get my friends machine to my place, same antenna konnector my machine works (nova-t) and friends machine (airstar2)won't.

Also I take test with my mythbuntu machine to other harddirive with newest download installation cd.
And now my machine also won't lock in mythtv !! 

something have changed in this new version...

edit: tested airstar2 with my own machine with old installation (that one which worked allready) and it also works..
very mythstick :-)

---

