---
title: "13.04 MCC fails to start...ImportError: cannot import name AptMessageDialog"
date: 2013-04-18
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by williammanda on 2013-04-18
I found this bug report:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mythbuntu-control-centre/+bug/1158117](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mythbuntu-control-centre/+bug/1158117)

Has anyone resolved this yet?

---

### Post by williammanda on 2013-04-21
This bug is important due the fact that when you try to install MCC via 13.04 it fails...so installing Mythtv using MCC is broken....Sorry I wasn't sure with my previous post that I made that point clear.
Thanks

---

### Post by williammanda on 2013-04-25
I just reviewed the Mythbuntu website....it appears that Mythbuntu has changed the update cycle...12.04 looks to be the latest. If so...the MCC problem may not get fixed by the release of 13.04 Ubuntu?

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2013-04-25
It's a much larger change that practacily requires a rewrite of MCC (it's about 50/50 whether we need to just port it to Python 3). I don't think this will be fixed by 13.04.

And yes, we do only do LTS releases now and recommend sticking on 12.04.

---

### Post by williammanda on 2013-04-26
Thanks for the update!
If I wanted to install Mythtv using 13.04 or other than the LT release ie 12.04....what all are the steps? It has been years since I installed Mythtv without MCC. My thoughts are based on a bare frontend:
1. Install mythtv-frontend. This should pull in dependences ie mythtv, mythtv-common, mythtv-database and other related packages.
2. Add my user name to mythtv group
3. Install lirc. I have a copy of the 3 three files needed for my remote...hardware.conf, lird.conf and mythtv.
4. anything else?

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2013-04-26
> **williammanda said:**
> Thanks for the update!
If I wanted to install Mythtv using 13.04 or other than the LT release ie 12.04....what all are the steps? It has been years since I installed Mythtv without MCC. My thoughts are based on a bare frontend:
1. Install mythtv-frontend. This should pull in dependences ie mythtv, mythtv-common, mythtv-database and other related packages.
2. Add my user name to mythtv group
3. Install lirc. I have a copy of the 3 three files needed for my remote...hardware.conf, lird.conf and mythtv.
4. anything else?

That sounds feasible. The only thing I might suggest is that if you have a supported remote (I use a windows MCE remote), to use the built in kernel support for remote controls. I had to do a bit of configuring, but after that I personally think it works much better.

---

### Post by williammanda on 2013-04-30
One last question....it seems that mythtv version .26 is the version installed from the repositories...is .25 available?

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2013-04-30
Not for 13.04

---

