---
title: "5.1 sound works with DVD's, not with HDTV"
date: 2009-09-26
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Bloodrule on 2009-09-26
I have MythTV set up with digital sound configured to spdif running 8.10 - playing DVD's produces sound to all speakers.  Watching live or recorded HDTV (which includes a 5.1 sound channel) won't play to any other than right and left front speakers.

The fact that DVD's play correctly means the hardware and the Linux installation work - I assume I may be missing a configuration setting in MythTV itself.

Any ideas?  Have tried endless variations of settings without success.

Thanks, BR.

---

### Post by jaakan on 2009-09-27
> **Bloodrule said:**
> I have MythTV set up with digital sound configured to spdif running 8.10 - playing DVD's produces sound to all speakers.  Watching live or recorded HDTV (which includes a 5.1 sound channel) won't play to any other than right and left front speakers.

The fact that DVD's play correctly means the hardware and the Linux installation work - I assume I may be missing a configuration setting in MythTV itself.

Any ideas?  Have tried endless variations of settings without success.

Thanks, BR.



Here are my settings for mythfrontend General Setup. 9.04 but I had the same settings when I had 8.10.

    * AUDIO OUTPUT DEVICE = ALSA:default
    * PASSTHROUGH OUTPUT DEVICE = ALSA:iec958:{ AES0 0x02 }
    * MAX AUDIO CHANNELS = stereo
    * UPMIX = passive
    * X=Enable AC3 to SPDIF Passthrough
    * X=Enable DTS to SPDIF Passthrough
    * _=Aggressive Sound Card Buffering
    * _=Use internal Volume Controls

---

### Post by Bloodrule on 2009-09-27
Thanks for your reply.  I got it working in the end by changing the audio settings to ALSA:spdif.  Appreciate your help.

---

