---
title: "8.10 TV out through PVR-350"
date: 2008-11-12
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by huzzak on 2008-11-12
I just upgraded my DVR with a new case, motherboard, cpu and hard drive (320 GB -- NICE).  I figured I'd go ahead and install the latest and greatest Mythbuntu 8.10 (I was using 8.04 previously).

My problem is that I can't get TV to go out through the PVR-350.  I have managed to get X to go through the TV-out, so I can watch television if I specify that I don't want the television to go out through PVR-350 in the myth frontend options.  Unfortunately the video quality is pretty bad (since the cpu has to process it instead of streaming the MPEG directly to the tuner card, I am assuming).

If I run ```
cat Desktop/Silhouet2001.mpeg > /dev/video16
``` the video comes out through the television, though there is a large black box obscuring most of the screen and there is no sound.

I've got ivtvfb installed and I've updated using the [http://ppa.launchpad.net/superm1/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/superm1/ubuntu) source (I have used gutsy, intrepid and feisty as the distributions).

I'm not sure what exactly is the problem.  I wonder if something might be wrong with my setup because even though I pulled the schedule from schedules direct they don't show up in my program guide.  Thanks for any help you can offer.

---

### Post by BenFranske on 2008-11-21
I'm working on a new PVR-350 howto for Intrepid and am also currently unable to get the PVR-350 TV-out working. I think the large black box problem is a red herring as that has been the case for the last several versions of Ubuntu.

Looking at the mythfrontend log I see:
IVD: ivtv version 1.4.0
IVD Error: Failed to locate framebuffer
Did you load the ivtv-fb Linux kernel module?
VideoOutput, Error: Not compiled with any useable video output method

I think this is the problem. Is it possible that myth is still looking for the ivtv-fb module when Ubuntu switched to ivtvfb some time ago? Can a someone with more insight into this take a look?

It slso looks to me like the [http://ppa.launchpad.net/superm1/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/superm1/ubuntu) no longer has any relevant packages.

---

### Post by BenFranske on 2008-11-21
A little bit of new information. By playing around with things I was able to determine that if I removed ivtvfb from /etc/modules so that it did not autoload on boot, rebooted the computer so the module was not loaded, and then did a modprobe ivtvfb before starting the frontend the playback through the PVR-350 works.

To summarize, PVR-350 playback works if:
1)ivtvfb is NOT autoloaded through /etc/modules
2)you manually modprobe ivtvfb before starting mythfrontend

I'm not sure what this means or how to fix it permanently but it's a start. I also noted that I could not "rmmod ivtvfb" when it had been autoloaded through /etc/modules, the driver claimed it was in use even though mythfrontend was shutdown and nothing should have been using it. The only way I could remove the module was to take it out of /etc/modules and reboot.

Anyone have thoughts?

---

### Post by BenFranske on 2008-11-22
I'm going to bump this one time to see if anyone has any suggestions before I file a bug report.

---

### Post by huzzak on 2008-11-22
I tried your work around with Mythbuntu 8.10.  It didn't seem to work, though when I installed the operating system I didn't have the tv tuner card installed.  I will try it again with a fresh installation while the tuner card is installed so that I can choose to install the drivers during the installion.

---

### Post by huzzak on 2008-11-24
I did a fresh install with the card installed and your work around still does not work.  It is especially frustrating since I can only get the lower twenty channels.  Everything else is static and it should not be.

It looks like the issue outlined [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV_Gutsy_hardware_pvr-350_TV-out#Downloading%20and%20installing%20updates%20to%20eliminate%20bugs%20and%20load%20the%20X%20driver%20for%20ivtv") is the same one that is a problem now on Intrepid.

[http://ppa.launchpad.net/superm1/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/superm1/ubuntu) intrepid main has some things related to lirc in it.  Though running the updates from it didn't resolve any of the errors I am having.

---

### Post by franksch on 2008-11-28
I seem to have the same problem in that I get an "unable to initialize video" error that prevents output from my pvr-350 to my TV while using Mythbuntu 8.10.  I tried using Mythbuntu 8.04, and I now have a working (mostly) system.

After some searching, it seems that the problem might be connected to a module name change from ivtv_fb to ivtvfb.

I'm new at Linux, and completely new to Mythtv/Mythbuntu.
frank

---

### Post by frozenskunk on 2008-11-28
I was finally able to get mine working, and wrote the following. See if it helps you out...

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV_Intrepid_hardware_pvr-350_TV-out]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV_Intrepid_hardware_pvr-350_TV-out")

---

### Post by franksch on 2008-11-28
Thanks frozenskunk.  That sounds like what I need, including the xorg comments.

I am puzzled about just switching off the pvr-350 output to tv, however, since when I first installled 8.10, I didn't recognize that option existed. (('m assuming you are referring to page 9 of the playback settings.)

Since I'm pretty new to this stuff, it may take some time to learn how to archive what I have.  Switching between major releases (using 8.04 now) and possibly back again is a little tricky from here.

But I _will_  give it a try. Thanks again.
frank

---

### Post by huzzak on 2008-12-01
Thanks from me as well.

I'll give the xorg.conf a try and report on the results.

A question, though.  When you installed, did you choose to enable TV-out through the PVR-350?  Did you install the driver ivtv for the PVR-350 then?  Thanks again.

---

### Post by matt8534 on 2008-12-06
Thanks frozenskunk... your post helped me configure TV Out w/ my PVR350.  I am having the same issue as franksch when I select "Use The PVR-350's TV Out / MPEG Decoder" I get "Unable to Initialize Video" when I try to watch TV.

From /var/log/mythtv/mythfrontend.log

```

2008-12-05 22:16:41.609 IVD Error: **Failed to locate framebuffer. Did you load the ivtv-fb Linux kernel module?**
2008-12-05 22:16:41.609 VideoOutput, Error: Not compiled with any useable video output method.
2008-12-05 22:16:41.609 **Unable to initialize video**.
2008-12-05 22:16:56.124 TV Error: StartPlayer(): NVP is not playing after 20000 msec
2008-12-05 22:16:56.440 TV Error: LiveTV not successfully started
2008-12-05 22:16:56.522 DPMS Reactivated.

```

Seems I have done everything right... any thoughts??  I have been searching all over...

---

### Post by hylsan on 2009-01-29
> **BenFranske said:**
> A little bit of new information. By playing around with things I was able to determine that if I removed ivtvfb from /etc/modules so that it did not autoload on boot, rebooted the computer so the module was not loaded, and then did a modprobe ivtvfb before starting the frontend the playback through the PVR-350 works.

To summarize, PVR-350 playback works if:
1)ivtvfb is NOT autoloaded through /etc/modules
2)you manually modprobe ivtvfb before starting mythfrontend

I'm not sure what this means or how to fix it permanently but it's a start. I also noted that I could not "rmmod ivtvfb" when it had been autoloaded through /etc/modules, the driver claimed it was in use even though mythfrontend was shutdown and nothing should have been using it. The only way I could remove the module was to take it out of /etc/modules and reboot.

Anyone have thoughts?

First I followed the old gutsy-tutorial since it worked ok last time. When that didnt work I searched and found this post and did as above.

I got it to work at first, when I played a recorded show. After about 5seconds it freezes and this shows in term;
```

IVD Error: Fetching frames played from decoder
			eno: Input/output error (5)

```

After this I tried to set things back to normal but noticed that something had happend to mythbackend. In mythweb, all scheduled recordings were gone and no matter what I cant record anything. Also when I'm in mythfrontend, LiveTV doesnt work at all, no error messages what I can find;
```

tomas@MythCube:~$ mythfrontend
2009-01-29 21:28:56.380 Using runtime prefix = /usr
2009-01-29 21:28:56.900 XScreenSaver support enabled
2009-01-29 21:28:56.900 DPMS is active.
2009-01-29 21:28:56.900 Empty LocalHostName.
2009-01-29 21:28:56.900 Using localhost value of MythCube
2009-01-29 21:28:56.906 New DB connection, total: 1
2009-01-29 21:28:56.910 Connected to database 'mythconverg' at host: localhost
2009-01-29 21:28:56.910 Closing DB connection named 'DBManager0'
2009-01-29 21:28:56.912 Primary screen 0.
2009-01-29 21:28:56.912 Connected to database 'mythconverg' at host: localhost
2009-01-29 21:28:56.913 Using screen 0, 1024x768 at 0,0
2009-01-29 21:28:56.918 New DB connection, total: 2
2009-01-29 21:28:56.919 Connected to database 'mythconverg' at host: localhost
2009-01-29 21:28:56.920 mythfrontend version: 0.21.20080304-1 www.mythtv.org
2009-01-29 21:28:56.920 Enabled verbose msgs:  important general
2009-01-29 21:28:57.167 No theme dir: /home/tomas/.mythtv/themes/Retro
2009-01-29 21:28:57.168 Primary screen 0.
2009-01-29 21:28:57.168 Using screen 0, 1024x768 at 0,0
2009-01-29 21:28:57.168 No theme dir: /home/tomas/.mythtv/themes/Retro
2009-01-29 21:28:57.168 Switching to square mode (Retro)
2009-01-29 21:28:57.179 Using the Qt painter
2009-01-29 21:28:57.181 JoystickMenuClient Error: Joystick disabled - Failed to read /home/tomas/.mythtv/joystickmenurc
mythtv: could not connect to socket
mythtv: No such file or directory
2009-01-29 21:28:57.181 lirc_init failed for mythtv, see preceding messages
2009-01-29 21:28:57.852 Loading from: /usr/share/mythtv/themes/Retro/base.xml
2009-01-29 21:28:57.910 Loading from: /usr/share/mythtv/themes/default/base.xml
2009-01-29 21:28:57.937 Registering Internal as a media playback plugin.
2009-01-29 21:28:57.984 MonitorRegisterExtensions(0x100, gif,jpg,png)
2009-01-29 21:28:58.006 Failed to run 'cdrecord --scanbus'
2009-01-29 21:28:58.009 Failed to run 'cdrecord --scanbus -dev=ATA'
2009-01-29 21:28:58.011 Failed to run 'cdrecord --scanbus -dev=ATAPI'
2009-01-29 21:28:58.027 MonitorRegisterExtensions(0x40, ogg,mp3,aac,flac)
2009-01-29 21:28:58.063 No theme dir: /home/tomas/.mythtv/themes/Retro
2009-01-29 21:28:59.956 Connecting to backend server: 127.0.0.1:6543 (try 1 of 5)
2009-01-29 21:28:59.957 Using protocol version 40

```

Any ideas were to start??
Might be best to just install 8.04 that I know works with pvr-350.

/Hylsan

---

