---
title: "8.10 Installation Issues"
date: 2009-01-06
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Clay Berlo on 2009-01-06
Hi folks.  I tried the Wubi install for Mythbuntu 8.10 this morning, and ran into a couple of problems.  First, it couldn't find the gpg file to verify the download, so the install failed.  Then, I manually downloaded the ISO, saving it in the install directory and ran again.  It skipped the gpg confirmation and continued the install.  So far, so good!

Boot to the install, things seem to go along fine until you reach Step 11.  This is a bit of a problem, because MySQL isn't configured at this point.  It appears the mc.sql file has not been imported to the MySQL setup, so no further progress can be made.

To get around this, I hit Alt-F2 and ran an Xterm, manually creating the MySQL databases and setting mythtv's password (instructions available for anyone who needs it, but this should be fixed instead of worked around).  After creating the databases and setting the user privileges/password, it seems to be continuing fine here.  I'll try to note anything else that goes wrong.

---

### Post by Somebody_DK on 2009-01-14
Hi, I am having the same problem. Would you mind posting your workaround for the MySQL setup?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by Somebody_DK on 2009-01-15
Nevermind I solved it - used mysql to run the script mc.sql which is located in /usr/share/mythtv/sql/mc.sql.

mysql --user=root --password=yourpassword < /usr/share/mythtv/sql/mc.sql

You might first want to set your root password for mysql using mysqladmin:

mysqladmin -u root password "yourpassword"

---

### Post by vasiko on 2009-01-15
ok i write mysqladmin -u root password "yourpassword", and i get thiw message: ,
mysqladmin: connect to server at localhost failed
error: Can't connect to local mysql server through socket /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock
Check that my sqld is running and that the socket  /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock exists!
Can you help i am a begginer and i dont know what to do

---

### Post by Somebody_DK on 2009-01-16
It sounds as if yor mysql server is not running. 
Try */etc/init.d/mysqld start* or */etc/init.d/mysqld restart* (i am situated at a windows machine rigth now so the path may not be 100% correct).

---

### Post by vasiko on 2009-01-16
Thank you for your help! I made some progress but i need some more help. 
I typed sudo /etc/init.d/mysql start and the sql server run. Then i went to /usr/share/mythtv/sql directory and i typed mysql --user=root --password=mypassword and i got in the sql or somethnig like this. Everything went ok to this point and oi thought i was correct.
But when I tried the test connection button but again i had a failure message. 
If you could help with this i 'd be gratefull. Thanks

---

### Post by klc5555 on 2009-01-16
> **vasiko said:**
> Thank you for your help! I made some progress but i need some more help. 
I typed sudo /etc/init.d/mysql start and the sql server run. Then i went to /usr/share/mythtv/sql directory and i typed mysql --user=root --password=mypassword and i got in the sql or somethnig like this. Everything went ok to this point and oi thought i was correct.
But when I tried the test connection button but again i had a failure message. 
If you could help with this i 'd be gratefull. Thanks

Try --user=mythtv instead, and see if that works. In mythbuntu, root does the admin, but doesn't usually have access to actually login to the database.

---

### Post by Somebody_DK on 2009-01-16
> **vasiko said:**
> Thank you for your help! I made some progress but i need some more help. 
I typed sudo /etc/init.d/mysql start and the sql server run. Then i went to /usr/share/mythtv/sql directory and i typed mysql --user=root --password=mypassword and i got in the sql or somethnig like this. Everything went ok to this point and oi thought i was correct.
But when I tried the test connection button but again i had a failure message. 
If you could help with this i 'd be gratefull. Thanks

Did run the command:

*mysql --user=root --password=yourpassword < /usr/share/mythtv/sql/mc.sql* 

This creates the mythtv user and database!

---

### Post by vasiko on 2009-01-17
> **Somebody_DK said:**
> Did run the command:

*mysql --user=root --password=yourpassword < /usr/share/mythtv/sql/mc.sql* 

This creates the mythtv user and database!

Ok i did all these and everything went ok but again the test connection button gives me a failure message. I dont know what i am doing wrong.
Sql starts ok, then i write :
mysql --user=root --password=mypassword < /usr/share/mythtv/sql/mc.sql
i get no problem messages at this point, everything seems ok. Is it something else i have to do or is it something i did the wrong way?Do i have to change the password ?
Thank you for your help

---

### Post by Somebody_DK on 2009-01-17
I just remembered that i had to change my hostname for the database connection during mythtv setup from *localhost* to *127.0.0.1* before mythtv could access the database ... 

Hope this does the trick!

---

### Post by vasiko on 2009-01-18
> **Somebody_DK said:**
> I just remembered that i had to change my hostname for the database connection during mythtv setup from *localhost* to *127.0.0.1* before mythtv could access the database ... 

Hope this does the trick!
No, that did not worked either. I guess i am doing something wrong. Thanks anyway!

---

### Post by Somebody_DK on 2009-01-19
My last guess would be that the password to the database is wrong. The default password for the mythtv user is *mythtv*. You can see the password in the file */usr/share/mythtv/sql/mc.sql*. If you look in the file the password is stated immediately after *IDENTIFIED BY* and is enclosed by *""*.

---

### Post by vasiko on 2009-01-19
> **Somebody_DK said:**
> My last guess would be that the password to the database is wrong. The default password for the mythtv user is *mythtv*. You can see the password in the file */usr/share/mythtv/sql/mc.sql*. If you look in the file the password is stated immediately after *IDENTIFIED BY* and is enclosed by *""*.

Well the password in the file is mythtv, i checked it. But again nothing happens. I guess i have to wait for  wubi to solve this problem
Thanks!

---

