---
title: "9.10 - Mythweb forgets user and password after each reboot!"
date: 2010-02-09
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by neutron68 on 2010-02-09
In Mythbuntu 9.10, Mythweb forgets the username and password after some number of reboots of the pc.  
Is this a known bug?

:!:BACKGROUND:
I used Mythbuntu Control Centre.  I clicked on Plugins.  I clicked ENABLE next to the words "Password Protect Mythweb".  I entered a username and a password.  I clicked APPLY.  I got an "Apply Settings?" window.  I clicked APPLY.
The box said:
"- Reconfigure (as root) the following items:
	mythweb_password mythweb_auth mythweb_user"
I clicked APPLY.  
Mythweb worked and correctly accepted my username and password.

After some number of reboots, I tried to access Mythweb again.  The login box opened up.  I entered the username and password and clicked the OK button.  A blank login box popped up.  Mythweb had forgotten!

I went back into the Mythbuntu Control Centre and re-entered the username and password for Mythweb, then Mythweb worked again - for some number of reboots.  

Today I tried to login to Mythweb and it had forgotten my username and password again.

:?:HOW TO FIX?
How can I get Mythweb to remember the username and password?

Insight appreciated,
Eric

---

### Post by neutron68 on 2010-02-09
Did I just stumble on the fix?

I went back to Mythbuntu Control Centre. I clicked on Plugins. I clicked DISABLE next to the words "Password Protect Mythweb".  I clicked APPLY, etc.
Then I went back and ENABLED the password again.  
I rebooted the machine and Mythweb remembered the username and password this time.
I don't think I did anything different this time.

I'll report back if Mythweb forgets again.

---

### Post by neutron68 on 2010-02-09
A thought...I have the mythbuntu-repos 0.22 updates enabled.

I wonder if one of the updates wiped out the apache2 config settings, and thus the username and password??

---

### Post by novellahub on 2010-02-10
> **neutron68 said:**
> A thought...I have the mythbuntu-repos 0.22 updates enabled.

I wonder if one of the updates wiped out the apache2 config settings, and thus the username and password??

Yes it does.  I have to reconfigure my mythweb password after doing updates.

---

### Post by neutron68 on 2010-02-12
Any idea if this has already been reported to the bug list?

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/mythbuntu](https://bugs.launchpad.net/mythbuntu)

<<edit>>
I just posted it as a bug:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/mythbuntu/+bug/521269](https://bugs.launchpad.net/mythbuntu/+bug/521269)

---

