---
title: "9.10 No longer auto saves bookmark and offers to resume"
date: 2009-11-10
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by colinnwn on 2009-11-10
Hi,

Upgraded to Mythbuntu 9.10. I may be crazy, but I thought when I used to watch a recording in 9.04, and escaped out of it in the middle, when I selected it again to continue watching, MythBuntu would ask if I'd like to watch from the beginning or my previous bookmark (which was set when I escaped out of viewing the last time). 

Is this not the case? If it was, is there a way to get it back? 

I tried selecting "i" before pressing enter on the watch recording screen, and there isn't an option to continue watching from the bookmark unless a bookmark is manually set before escaping from watching the recording. I don't want to have to remember to do this every time.

Some things about this new frontend layout are nicer, and other things I'm not so sure about. I was used to the way things were, and getting some of my favorite features back isn't exactly intuitive. 

Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2009-11-10
I am not sure if bookmark is the correct term. So are you watching a media in a media device or are you watching something through your browser that is on the web. If your using a media player then tell us which one it is most have a setting to start from where you stopped a few don't.

---

### Post by SiHa on 2009-11-10
It's in one of the multitude of setup screens, probably TV Settings > Playback. You can set the behaviour, when exiting a recording, to prompt to save position and exit, just exit, or delete the recording.
When resuming the recording, it will start from the saved position.

I believe the prompt to start from the bookmark or the beginning only happens with video files, as opposed to recorded TV.

---

### Post by colinnwn on 2009-11-11
@wilee-nilee
I don't think bookmarking (or save position/clear position) is available in MythWeb or watching from another media player. I am watching through the native viewer MythFrontend.

@SiHa
Thanks, I found it exactly where you said. As I was looking thorough, I discovered other settings I had that were not preserved during the update. I wonder if this was intentional, or a bug in the update process.

---

