---
title: "Nvidia 6200 in Low Graphics Mode"
date: 2008-08-22
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by chrispcall on 2008-08-22
Let me preface this by saying I'm an absolute beginner with both linux and myth.  

This is a new machine running a PVR-500 capture card and a PCIe Nvidia 6200TC video card.  It is stuck in low graphics mode (800-600) and I cant resolve the issue.  I've tried many things that I've read to try.  I tried to use Envy to install the drivers after other options didn't work.  The card will not work in any other setup other than Vesa generic.

I've tried to run the Nvidia-X configurer but it says I'm running X and to type something like "Nvidia-xconfig."  That processes and finishes, with the same results.  

As I said, I'm very new to all of this, so I may be missing something.  I've tried to install the drivers myself from the Nvidia website, but when I close X and try to type "sh -driverfilename-" while in the same folder as the driver, I get an error.  (I can't remember what it is).

Below is my Xorg file.

Any help is greatly appreciated.  (Sorry for the long post, I tried to be detailed)

<log>

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Tue Jan 22 19:53:46 PST 2008

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	640	480
		Depth	24
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	#  
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Monitor		"monitor1"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce 6 Series"
	Busid		"PCI:3:0:0"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	#  
	Identifier	"device1"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce 6 Series"
	Busid		"PCI:3:0:0"
	Screen	1
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Gamma	1
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	#  
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection
 

</log>

---

### Post by ahood on 2008-08-22
I use Nvidia too. I had a similar problem and managed to solve it.

Perhaps the solution I used will help, see link below...

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=808656&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=808656&page=2)

Al

---

