---
title: "7.10 installer is unusable"
date: 2007-10-07
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by oobe-feisty on 2007-10-07
To start off let me explain my situation i have just over 1TB of hard drives 
1 750 GB ntfs for data only ( its nearly full)
1 200 GB partioned ( XP sp2 on sda1 feisty on sda5 and sda6 is for testing other linux distros) + 1GB swap
also a vfat 120 HD for mythtv 

when the installer starts after filling in my location it seemed to take a long time to load the next screen as it was scanning my partition table this seemed normal at first but it was taken much longer than normal so i ran ps aux | grep ntfs 
and found the ntfsresize was running on my hard drives this alarmed me as it gave me no choice and i do not consider this essential as i  only want to pick sda6 
as my target which is already partioned to ext3  i figured out after killing it as it made me nervous this was ok so i started again after waiting way to long for it to complete this unnecessary procedure it finally took me to the partition selection screen and i could select which partition to install on i  selected sda6 
and the next screen had import files and settings i selected not to do this it froze again i determined it was running mount /mnt/filesystem or something i cant remember fully on my xp ntfs drive 
and to get it to the next stage i  had to umount it then once it got to 83% of install it froze while 
downloading unecessary language packs that i don't need and didn't ask for the download was estimated between 2 and 15 mins it was fluctuating according to speed i have a 6 mb connection and should expect this to take 2 mins max i noticed i could cancel so i did then it started to try to import settings remember the feature that froze previously which i already chose not to do it tried anyway 
then it froze so i unmounted the ntfs mount and install dies with and error. 

thats it im not trying to install it anymore till a stable version is out based on a proper ubuntu release not a beta one I'm only posting this as feedback I'm well aware that other people have had success with this version but im letting you know that these problems make it unusable for people with certain system setups  and the installer requires more options i do not like software that assumes you dont know how to  do anything yourself and refuses to give you a choice this post is meant to be constructive as imm extremly please with ubuntu 7.04 and now have it as my main OS im still searching for a mythtv distro that can provide an out of the box experience i believe that mythbuntu has that potential as i have had great experiences setting up mythtv in ubuntu how ever the installer needs a lot of work below is a summary of what i believe should be changed fixed 


freezes during install
takes ages to mount drives and get to stage 4 of setup after you select location
need to umount its ntfs mount point to proceed
downloading language packs should be optional 
ntfs resize should not run in back ground 
should be able to disable import files and settings 
also it would be nice if i could apt-get the mythbuntu add ons from an existing stable ubuntu install so iim just adding packages 

PS this is my first post and do not wish to start off on a negative note and would like to say that this is a great distro and community my main reason for posting this is that i want to contribute to the 
improvement of the myth/ubuntu installer

---

### Post by oobe-feisty on 2007-10-07
also i forgot to add the error msg i got when the installer crashed at the end i kept to post here for any developers who may be instersted 

Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/lib/ubiquity/bin/ubiquity", line 212, in <module>
    main()
  File "/usr/lib/ubiquity/bin/ubiquity", line 209, in main
    install()
  File "/usr/lib/ubiquity/bin/ubiquity", line 65, in install
    ret = wizard.run()
  File "/usr/lib/ubiquity/ubiquity/frontend/gtk_ui.py", line 419, in run
    self.progress_loop()
  File "/usr/lib/ubiquity/ubiquity/frontend/gtk_ui.py", line 768, in progress_loop
    (ret, realtb))
RuntimeError: Install failed with exit code 1
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/share/ubiquity/install.py", line 1787, in <module>
    install.run()
  File "/usr/share/ubiquity/install.py", line 392, in run
    self.configure_ma()
  File "/usr/share/ubiquity/install.py", line 1012, in configure_ma
    raise InstallStepError("MigrationAssistantApply failed with code %d" % ret)
InstallStepError: MigrationAssistantApply failed with code 10

---

### Post by superm1 on 2007-10-07
Hi,

Thanks for your post.  Slight issue here, glancing at that back trace, that isn't the mythbuntu installer.  That is the standard GTK installer.

Were you attempting to start the installer via command line?

If so, you must start it via

```
sudo ubiquity mythbuntu_ui
```

Otherwise, double click the icon on the desktop to start it.

---

### Post by oobe-feisty on 2007-10-07
no i started it from the desktop menu would you suggest i start it from a shell instead ? also would it make a difference if i booted in a different mode is there a text   mode installer

---

### Post by superm1 on 2007-10-07
> **oobe-feisty said:**
> no i started it from the desktop menu would you suggest i start it from a shell instead ? also would it make a difference if i booted in a different mode is there a text   mode installer
Desktop "menu", As in Applications->System->Install? May have encountered a bug there if so.

Start it via one of the methods I mentioned.

There is no text installer at this time, but we were going to create one for the future.

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2007-10-08
> **oobe-feisty said:**
> no i started it from the desktop menu would you suggest i start it from a shell instead ? also would it make a difference if i booted in a different mode is there a text   mode installer

there is a text based installer for normal Gutsy Gibbon. It's called the Alternate Install cd. As superm1 has stated, currently there is no text based installer for Mythbuntu which is where you're posting your comments  to. If you are trying to use the gutsy normal live cd and install from there, you should go post at the relevant section within the Ubuntu Forum.

---

### Post by pug on 2007-10-08
My install (mythbuntu-contro-centre) also crashes at various stages, seems to be specific packages / plugins that crashes it.

For example, if I mark both primary backend and frontend (to install) it crashes. If I add just one of them everything is fine...

Another example: I can install both xine and vlc without problems, when I try to install mplayer it crashes.

Not sure what to make of that (and no error logs, sorry)

---

### Post by superm1 on 2007-10-08
> **pug said:**
> My install (mythbuntu-contro-centre) also crashes at various stages, seems to be specific packages / plugins that crashes it.

For example, if I mark both primary backend and frontend (to install) it crashes. If I add just one of them everything is fine...

Another example: I can install both xine and vlc without problems, when I try to install mplayer it crashes.

Not sure what to make of that (and no error logs, sorry)

Can you make sure you've upgraded to the latest version (0.8-0ubuntu1).  If the crashes continue, apport should catch them and offer to let you to report.  If for some reason that is not working, launch it like this and paste the backtrace into a bug:

sudo /usr/share/mythbuntu-control-centre/bin/mythbuntu-control-centre

---

### Post by oobe-feisty on 2007-10-10
i have ubuntu feisty as my main OS with myth-tv working perfect is there a way 
i can add the mythbuntu sources and packages to my apt list e.g it would be cool to apt-get mythbuntu-control-centre

---

### Post by superm1 on 2007-10-10
> **oobe-feisty said:**
> i have ubuntu feisty as my main OS with myth-tv working perfect is there a way 
i can add the mythbuntu sources and packages to my apt list e.g it would be cool to apt-get mythbuntu-control-centre
Sorry, mythbuntu-control-centre is highly dependent on a lot of gutsy specific changes.  Even if you did manage to get it installed on feisty (which would be a lot of work), it wouldn't function properly unless you brought with it the newer mythtv, mythplugins, mythstream, lirc, python-apt, and mythbuntu-* packages too.

---

### Post by oobe-feisty on 2007-10-10
so when it 7.10 offical comes out mythbuntu should release its version of stable to and the installer should not have as many probs?

---

### Post by superm1 on 2007-10-10
> **oobe-feisty said:**
> so when it 7.10 offical comes out mythbuntu should release its version of stable to and the installer should not have as many probs?
Well that's the plan.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2007-10-10
Do note that did find a bug and were using the wrong installer.  

The installer on the desktop and the one in the menu were two different ones.  This should be fixed for the RC.

The installer you were using does a bunch of stuff that isn't supposed to be done in mythbuntu such as migration assistant.  That's why you got issues.

---

