---
title: "10.04.4 LTS -&gt; 12.04; not available?"
date: 2012-04-29
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Oblong_Cheese on 2012-04-29
SOLVED: it seems launching the Update Manager from a menu and clicking 'Check' wasn't good enough - launching it from terminal "update-manager -d" prompted it to think about upgrading!

Hi everyone.

I am running Mythbuntu 10.04.4 and 0.24+fixes daily repo. I would like to upgrade now to 12.04 to get new firmware/driver to support a new USB tuner I wish to use (this tuner works with Mythbuntu 11.10, so I assume it works in 12.04 as well).

However, in my Update Manager I only have the option to upgrade to 10.10 - any ideas on why this might be?

Thank-you

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2012-04-29
> **Oblong_Cheese said:**
> SOLVED: it seems launching the Update Manager from a menu and clicking 'Check' wasn't good enough - launching it from terminal "update-manager -d" prompted it to think about upgrading!

Hi everyone.

I am running Mythbuntu 10.04.4 and 0.24+fixes daily repo. I would like to upgrade now to 12.04 to get new firmware/driver to support a new USB tuner I wish to use (this tuner works with Mythbuntu 11.10, so I assume it works in 12.04 as well).

However, in my Update Manager I only have the option to upgrade to 10.10 - any ideas on why this might be?

Thank-you

LTS to LTS upgrades aren't activated until the first point release (12.04.1).

---

### Post by superm1 on 2012-04-29
I'm curious, did you hit any snags with your upgrade?  A couple of us hit some problems along the way, some of them worked out, others not.  It would be good to know.

---

### Post by goldshirt9 on 2012-04-29
that's  a big jump.
be better to save your important files and do a fresh install

---

### Post by superm1 on 2012-04-29
Yeah, definitely backup important stuff before making that jump if you haven't already!

---

### Post by Beanage on 2012-08-01
sudo update-manager -d worked for me, it said it's disabled some of the third party sources but I can enable them when it finishes.:popcorn:

---

