---
title: ".24.x PPA - missing mythtranscode updates?"
date: 2011-09-02
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Morgennebel on 2011-09-02
Dear,


I am running mythbuntu 10.04 with daily updates (0.24.x PPAs). Everything works like a charm, getting regular updates for mythtv and required libraries and tools.

However, my mythtranscode still reports to be an older version and lacks support of the --audiotrack option which trigger a non-working mythtv2mkv.sh script.

I am wondering how do I get the latest greatest mythtranscode (without compiling mythtv on my own) which supports the --audiotrack option?

Thanks, -MN

---

### Post by nickrout on 2011-09-03
When was that option added? Maybe it is only in trunk?

---

### Post by superm1 on 2011-09-04
Here's the commit you are referring to:

[https://github.com/MythTV/mythtv/commit/cbf2efa6bd2b1b4febdc231efe4af2c36c8275bc#mythtv/programs/mythtranscode](https://github.com/MythTV/mythtv/commit/cbf2efa6bd2b1b4febdc231efe4af2c36c8275bc#mythtv/programs/mythtranscode)

It was only added to master as far as I can tell.  Here's the 0.24 history for the mythtranscode app:

[https://github.com/MythTV/mythtv/commits/fixes/0.24/mythtv/programs/mythtranscode](https://github.com/MythTV/mythtv/commits/fixes/0.24/mythtv/programs/mythtranscode)

So I see a couple of options for you:

1) Request the mythtv developers to add it to 0.24.
2) Switch to master
3) Backport the patch yourself locally and then keep a local copy of the mythtranscode binary in /usr/local.  You can still keep all the other apps and libraries from the packages though and things will most likely work fine.

---

### Post by Morgennebel on 2011-09-04
> **superm1 said:**
> Here's the commit you are referring to:
[...]
2) Switch to master


Thanks for the summary. Just to clarify: using master means no PPA, daily-builds, correct?

Thanks, -MN

---

### Post by superm1 on 2011-09-04
> **Morgennebel said:**
> Thanks for the summary. Just to clarify: using master means no PPA, daily-builds, correct?

Thanks, -MN

No, that's incorrect.  In mythbuntu-control-centre select the 0.25 repo and you will get master builds.

And to be clear both 0.24 and 0.25 builds are issued at "most" once a day, but they are only kicked off if there have been changes.  This is why there are some days that there won't be build updates.

---

