---
title: "[8.04] streaming video"
date: 2008-03-10
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by ghuber on 2008-03-10
I'm downloading daily updates on 8.04 but this one has not fixed it self so I wonder it it may be my config.   In Mythweb all my shows show up and I can play them just fine only with no audio.   Do I have to do something to get the audio to work or is this something that is waiting for a fix?

---

### Post by laga on 2008-03-10
Are you using the flash player?

---

### Post by ghuber on 2008-03-10
Adobe Flash 9r.  It is playing in MythWeb on firefox 2.0.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-03-11
> **ghuber said:**
> I'm downloading daily updates on 8.04 but this one has not fixed it self so I wonder it it may be my config.   In Mythweb all my shows show up and I can play them just fine only with no audio.   Do I have to do something to get the audio to work or is this something that is waiting for a fix?
You need an ffmpeg with mp3 support.  Typically you can get something like this from medibuntu, but i'm not sure they are ready for hardy yet.

---

### Post by ghuber on 2008-03-13
ffmpeg now shows that it was compiled with mp3 support but still no dice.  Any idea what log file it outputs to?  Is the server rendering this video in real time?  I don't see any flv files on my HD.  Not sure where to look from here.  The video plays great btw.  Just no audio. :(


Thanks for your help.
Geoff

---

### Post by geofffox on 2008-04-22
Hi Geoff.

Did you ever get this resolved?  I am also trying to get mythweb to stream with audio.

Any advice will be appreciated.

Geoff Fox

---

