---
title: "20.2 to .21 upgrade issue on Gutsy"
date: 2008-04-23
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by murchball on 2008-04-23
I finally bit the bullet and upgraded my backend (through Update Manager). Now every time I try to run mythtv-setup, I get a prompt about upgrading from 1209 to 1214. I click upgrade and then mythfilldatabase runs right away with numerous errors about an "Unknown column 'subtitletypes' in 'field list'". Then nothing much happens. I can't connect through mythweb or through any frontends (20.2 or .21). If I rerun mythtv-setup, it says that the schema is still at 1209 and the whole thing happens again. It seems like the database upgrade isn't really happening. What can I do next? Any ideas? Please let me know if there are any logs that might have meaningful info.

---

### Post by laga on 2008-04-24
Please post any output you get in your terminal when you start mythtv-setup, especially the messages about the database upgrade. That should show us find out what's going wrong.

---

### Post by murchball on 2008-04-24
Here's what I get when I try to manually start mythtv from the command line:

mythtv-backend:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/mythtv-backend start
[sudo] password for :
 * Removing stale PID file /var/run/mythtv/mythbackend
 * Starting MythTV server: mythbackend 

I really didn't get any errors during the upgrade. It seemed to go smoothly.

I do have a backup from just before I ran the upgrade. Would it be easier to just copy my recordings to a usb drive and reinstall? If I go that route, could I install 8.04 and restore a 20.2 database to .21?

---

### Post by murchball on 2008-04-24
It turns out that I'm able to duplicate the problem by restoring the database (from before the upgrade) to a VM and running the upgrade. Is there something I can do to 'clean up' the database before running the upgrade? What about a verbose option while running the upgrade? Maybe it will tell me what's failing.

Any thoughts?

---

