---
title: "0.24 mytharchive DVD creation issue using SP profile"
date: 2011-04-21
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by wayover13 on 2011-04-21
Hi. I have a problem creating DVD images using mytharchive. This refers to a mythbuntu 10.04.2 system on which mythtv has been updated to 0.24 (from repositories, not compiled locally). For what it's worth, the system is a combined FE/BE, dual-core, with 3 GB RAM.

The issue is as follows. When I create the DVD image, if I use the SP profile, the resulting iso contains only the first 22 minutes of the recording (in the case where the problem became evident, the recording was 1 hour and 30 minutes total). The resulting iso ends up being close to 900 MB in size. If, however, I use the LP profile when creating the iso, the resulting image contains the entire recording of 1 hour 30 minutes, and not just the first 22 minutes, as happens when I use the SP profile. So the problem I'm seeing in creating DVD images seems limited to the SP profile.

My guess is that there is some error coded into the SP profile that results in only the first VOB being included in the final DVD image. But I don't have sufficient understanding to go beyond this supposition. If I did, I'd try examining some configuration or script, looking for errors that might cause this profile to exclude all but the first VOB from the final DVD image. But I don't even know where to look or what to look for in the relevant location. I'm sure, however, that there are those on this list who could, if my supposition seems plausible, either instruct me on what file(s) to examine and/or what to look for in it/them.

So, can anyone here respond as to whether my diagnosis of the problem,  namely that when using the SP profile only the first VOB seems to make it into the resulting image, sounds like a plausible one? Further, can anyone here instruct me on how to further examine, and possibly fix, the issue?

Thanks,
James

---

### Post by wayover13 on 2011-04-22
> **wayover13 said:**
> I'm sure, however, that there are those on this list who could, if my supposition seems plausible, either instruct me on what file(s) to examine and/or what to look for in it/them.

Ok, so maybe I was wrong about that :) Anyway, here's a bit more info, just in case. The system does generate video and audio files that look about the right size--about 3.2 GB combined (newfile.mpg is 3.1 GB and the audio file ends up being ca. 125 MB, if memory serves). But the resulting DVD structure doesn't look quite right: here's the content of the VIDEO_TS directory ```

mythtv  12K 2011-04-21 23:23 VIDEO_TS.BUP
mythtv  12K 2011-04-21 23:23 VIDEO_TS.IFO
mythtv  52K 2011-04-21 23:23 VIDEO_TS.VOB
mythtv  34K 2011-04-21 23:23 VTS_01_0.BUP
mythtv  34K 2011-04-21 23:23 VTS_01_0.IFO
mythtv  52K 2011-04-21 23:23 VTS_01_0.VOB
mythtv 819M 2011-04-21 23:23 VTS_01_1.VOB
```
Any input based on this further data?

Thanks,
James

---

