---
title: "8.10 &quot;advanced install&quot; +static ip networks?"
date: 2008-11-17
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by klc5555 on 2008-11-17
Added a slave backend machine to an existing myth network over the weekend. The first time with 8.10 (Or with Mythbuntu in general on a remote backend/frontend --on my remote machines I've tended to use Myth on Slackware.) The subnet the myth machines are on is set up with a range of static ips, the appropriate netmask, and a gateway.

A slave backend should be installed with 8.10's advanced install. But 8.10's "advanced" setup seems to be designed for dhcp only. On the installation screen where the master database info is to be entered, one can enter the static ip of the master db host, but not the netmask. Therefore, the installation's pinging the master db host for connectivity fails, and the "advanced" installation is not allowed to proceed.

Instead, I found I needed to do a "standard" installation of 8.10 as a standalone myth box, then reconfigure the networking from dhcp to static, then reconfigure the box from standalone to slave backend, then finally pass the appropriate master mythconverg settings to the reconfigured box to allow it finally to connect as a slave backend. It works, of course, but takes about 3 times as long to set up as it should have.

Is there really no way to run an "advanced" install for a slave backend (or frontend-only box) on a static ip network? Or did I miss something? It just seems that the installation routine should allow one to pass static network information to the machine, rather than force an "incorrect" installation followed by a reconfiguration in this type of network environment.

Somewhat puzzling. :confused:

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-11-17
Try reconfiguring the network in the live env (use the NM applet in your task bar).  You can choose a static network at that time.  I'm not sure it will carry over to the installed system (i'd like to hope it will, if it doesn't, you should file a bug on ubiquity about this).

---

### Post by klc5555 on 2008-11-18
> **superm1 said:**
> Try reconfiguring the network in the live env (use the NM applet in your task bar).  You can choose a static network at that time.  I'm not sure it will carry over to the installed system (i'd like to hope it will, if it doesn't, you should file a bug on ubiquity about this).

Thanks superm1 ! I'll give the solution a test when I get my next  machine assembled, probably over the weekend.

Cheers! :)

---

### Post by soho on 2008-11-18
I had a simlar problem when installing a Mythbuntu 8.10 frontend on my Dell laptop.
Apparently the new kernel in 8.10 doesn't support my Dell laptop's wired network very well. This is not a problem in it self, since I connect my laptop to the backend with wifi, but here is the catch 22. To setup the wifi I need Mythbuntu to be installed, but to install Mythbuntu I am forced to test the SQL connection. It would be really nice, if the Mythbuntu-team made this test optional allowing offline installation. I could probably configure the wifi-card manually, but this can be quite painful, especially when it has to be done in the console without network and without a window manager. 
I ended up booting in live mode and was able to configure my wifi that way before installing (apparently my wired network connection is broken for my Dell laptop in the kernel shipped with 8.10, so I'm forced to use wifi, at least during the installation).

A little side note: The frontend is install on a USB pen on a laptop, which is really cool. If I want to watch tv, I just boot the machine with the USB pen attached. I originally installed 8.04, which was less of a hassle since my wired network worked. However there was a catch with 8.04 and wifi. The 8.04 network manager required a keychain password to be entered to connect to my WPA protected wifi network. The problem was that mythtv is already started at that point without being able to find the database. 
I could get rid of the keychain if I disabled roaming network, but that never worked well with 8.04 in any of my installations (including vanilla Ubuntu), since it required a manual /etc/init.d/network restart (a notorious network manager problem).
Well, these problem seemed to be fixed in 8.10 on my desktop, so I wanted to upgrade, but there was not enough space on the USB flash, so I had to reinstall from CD and then I faced the annoying database test block.

---

