---
title: "8.10 only boots in Text mode"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Buschbarber on 2008-10-31
I just installed Mythbuntu 8.10, from the LiveCD, and it boots up, in Text mode, to a Login prompt.

I have installed Mandriva, Ubuntu 8.04lts, and Ubuntu Ultimate 1.9, on this same machine, and never run into this before.

I am fairly new to Linux so I am not sure what to do to get the Graphical mode to load.

I have an HP Media Center PC m7060n, P4 3Ghz, 2Gb ram, Nvidia Gforce 6200 OC PCI, and a WinTV HVR1600 card.

I am Dual Booting XP MCE, Ultimate 1.9, and Mythbuntu 8.10, each on a separate SATA HD.

I currently have MythTV running fine on Ubuntu Ultimate 1.9 after installing the CX18 Firmware

The only difference, in Video Drivers, between Ultimate and Mythbuntu was that Mythbuntu offered me two choices for Restricted Video Drivers, 173 and 177, so I chose the newer 177 driver. I am using 173 in Ultimate.

I am somewhat of a Novice, with Linux, but I am not afraid to experiment. I just need Specific instructions to follow

---

### Post by fendres on 2008-10-31
Here is what I would do:
- Try to reinstall with the older driver.
If not happy with that search for what is wrong:
- login (in textmode)
- Try to start X manually: "sudo X" and check whether the output gives a hint what is wrong.
- Check whether the file /etc/X11/xorg.conf possibly differs between the working and non-working distribution.

---

### Post by Buschbarber on 2008-10-31
I tried running sudo X and it returns a message indicating that it can't find any hardware.

How do I reinstall the default drivers again without reinstalling the entire OS?

I do not have this problem with 8.04lts, running on this same machine. What has changed with 8.10 that would prevent the Restricted drivers from working properly?

---

### Post by Valen00 on 2008-11-01
login to the box
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new
sudo reboot

might do the job for you

to start X
startx
no need for sudo (and its not a good idea anyway)
then if it fails have a look through
/var/log/Xorg.0.log
(i usually use nano, its just easier)
and look for anything suss there.

---

### Post by Buschbarber on 2008-11-01
One of the problems that I have been experiencing that complicates this issue is that my PC has an Integrated Intel Graphics adapter and an Nvidia Gforce 6200 OC PCI card, The PC BIOS lets me set the Default video to either Onboard or PCI. If I set the BIOS to PCI, I cannot boot Ubuntu LiveCD to install the OS. It hangs at about 25% of the Satus Bar.

With Ubuntu 8.04 and Ultimate 1.9, I just plugged a monitor into both the Onboard adapter and the Nvidia card. I set the PC BIOS default video to Onboard and booted with the LiveCD. It would boot up on the monitor connected to the Onboard adapter and allow me to install the OS on a HD. When I boot the OS, off the HD, it would come up without a problem. I would get a prompt to install the Restricted drivers and I woiuld go ahead and do so. The only driver was Nvidia 173. I  would reboot and somewhere during the Boot process, the Nvidia driver would kick in and the rest of the boot process would display on the monitor connected to the Nvidia card.

Ubuntu 8.10 does not seem to detect the Nvidia card so it apparently does not load X.

I wanted to take advantage of the Nvidia cards 3D features.

If I get Ubuntu 8.10 installed successfully, set the PC BIOS to PCI, and boot the OS, it hangs just like the LiveCD. If I force the boot to Text mode, it still hangs, but I can see what was loading just prior to the hang. So far, no one has found this info very meaningful

---

