---
title: "Recommendation for a half-height WiFi PCI card"
date: 2010-03-03
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by cedyathome on 2010-03-03
I am looking for a half-height ( low-profile )  802.11/g PCI card for my mythbuntu box. I use the Antec Minuet 350 case.

A lot of the cards available seem to be half-height, but they have a full height back panel.

Any recommendations?

---

### Post by LowSky on 2010-03-03
> **cedyathome said:**
> I am looking for a half-height ( low-profile )  802.11/g PCI card for my mythbuntu box. I use the Antec Minuet 350 case.

A lot of the cards available seem to be half-height, but they have a full height back panel.

Any recommendations?

[http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16833320048](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16833320048)
it comes with a half height adapter

---

### Post by cedyathome on 2010-03-03
> **LowSky said:**
> [http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16833320048](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16833320048)
it comes with a half height adapter

Thank you, but it is a PCI-Express slot. 

I have one spare PCI-X16 slot, but I am reserving it for a graphics card. My motherboard has an on-board nVidia GEForce 8200 & it just barely keeps up with HD using VDPAU.

---

### Post by SiHa on 2010-03-04
> **cedyathome said:**
> ...My motherboard has an on-board nVidia GEForce 8200 & it just barely keeps up with HD using VDPAU.

Are you sure it's the 8200 struggling? I have the same chipset on my mobo, it plays HD with absolutely no problems, rising from 50°C to about 61°C. There are many other potential bottlenecks that it may be worth investigating before buying a new card.

---

### Post by cedyathome on 2010-03-04
> **SiHa said:**
> Are you sure it's the 8200 struggling? I have the same chipset on my mobo, it plays HD with absolutely no problems, rising from 50°C to about 61°C. There are many other potential bottlenecks that it may be worth investigating before buying a new card.

I have the latest nvidia drivers using the JVA repo. But I can't seem to get it to work with anything except the Bob2X deinterlacer for HD. It works for the most part, but I get some tearing occasionally especially with fast moving action like sports. For SD content, I'm using the temporal 2x de-interlacer. It seems to work fine except for textures with very close lines like a finely striped shirt.

Here's my configuration
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8811236&postcount=272](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8811236&postcount=272)

I upped the min. CPU speed to 2.4GHz. Allocated 512MB to the 8200. Extra Audio buffering is checked. Xorg.conf was generated by the nvidia utility, with no manual changes. 

Can you share your configuration and any tips to optimize? I would appreciate it.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2010-03-04
> **cedyathome said:**
> Thank you, but it is a PCI-Express slot. 

I have one spare PCI-X16 slot, but I am reserving it for a graphics card. My motherboard has an on-board nVidia GEForce 8200 & it just barely keeps up with HD using VDPAU.

sorry i thought you might want wireless n so you can transfer HD over wireless, I guess not

see this one: [http://www.newegg.com/Product/ImageGallery.aspx?CurImage=33-320-036-Z05&ISList=33-320-036-Z01%2c33-320-036-Z02%2c33-320-036-Z03%2c33-320-036-Z04%2c33-320-036-Z05&S7ImageFlag=1&Item=N82E16833320036&Depa=0&WaterMark=1&Description=ASUS%20PCI-G31%20PCI%20Wireless%20Adapter](http://www.newegg.com/Product/ImageGallery.aspx?CurImage=33-320-036-Z05&ISList=33-320-036-Z01%2c33-320-036-Z02%2c33-320-036-Z03%2c33-320-036-Z04%2c33-320-036-Z05&S7ImageFlag=1&Item=N82E16833320036&Depa=0&WaterMark=1&Description=ASUS%20PCI-G31%20PCI%20Wireless%20Adapter)


Also it sound like RAM might be the bottleneck, how much do you have? It could also be the CPU. If stepping is turned on the procssor might only be running as low as 800Mhz and jumping to 2.4Ghz when needed, which might cause your tearing. You can turn it off from BIOS in most cases, but your computer temps might go a bit higher.

---

### Post by SiHa on 2010-03-04
I'll have check at my config when I get home and post back, but from memory, I didn't do anything special. Speed-throttling appears to be in operation (xbmc status shows CPU @800MHz at idle), but I've never seen the issues that others post related to that.
I'm using 'VDPAU Normal', with whatever deinterlacers that defaults to.
To stop tearing I disabled composite extensions in xorg.conf.

OK, config is as follows.

256MB of 1GB For VGA Framebuffer.

Mythbuntu 9.10 32 bit. Fresh Install, recommended nVidia drivers (185) in use. **No** updates, checking for updates disabled. JYA repositories not in use.

Extra Audio Buffering enabled
OpenGL Vertical Sync for timing enabled
VDPAU Normal:
>720 Deinterlacers Temporal 2x HW,Primary 1x HW, Fallback
>0 Deinterlacers Advanced 2x HW, Primary 1x HW Fallback

```
frontend@frontend-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	DefaultDepth	24
        Option "CustomEDID" "DFP-0:/etc/X11/edid.bin" 
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Default Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"UseEvents"	"1"
	Option	"DPI"	"100x100"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"1"
        Option "ConnectedMonitor" "DFP" 
        Option "UseDisplayDevice" "DFP-0" 

EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection

```

Regarding your comments about deinterlacers struggling with a fine striped pattern, are you sure it's the deinterlacer that's at fault? AFAIK, if the deinterlacer is struggling you'll get juddering or the usual problem of horizontal 'combing'. The issue you describe has always been a problem for SD TV, you're probably just seeing the moire effect created by the stripe spacing and pixel spacing being very similar.

Anyway, my tuppemnce worth. Basically, apart from enabling the restricted drivers and setting the profile to VDPAU (Normal), **everything** else is just the default settings from the install.

---

### Post by cedyathome on 2010-03-04
SiHA,
Thanks for the tip on disabling "Composite". I hadn't come across that anywhere. I just added that to my xorg.conf & the VDPAU normal seems to work just fine. No stuttering like I had before.  I also enable the OpenGL Vertical Sync for timing.

Will see how it works tonight when I'll have more time to watch tv.

I'll try the Use Events later. There were also two another xorg.conf tweak that I had forgotten about, which I'll try too.
    Option         "TripleBuffer" "True"
And after that, I'll try to let the CPU throttle down.

I'm excited. Thank you.

So, I may be able to use that PCIx slot for the wifi after all.


Edit: I had come across the composite disable (thanks to JVA) but somewhere along the line, I forgot about adding it to the xorg.conf. Thanks for reminding me.

---

### Post by cedyathome on 2010-03-04
> **LowSky said:**
> sorry i thought you might want wireless n so you can transfer HD over wireless, I guess not

see this one: [http://www.newegg.com/Product/ImageGallery.aspx?CurImage=33-320-036-Z05&ISList=33-320-036-Z01%2c33-320-036-Z02%2c33-320-036-Z03%2c33-320-036-Z04%2c33-320-036-Z05&S7ImageFlag=1&Item=N82E16833320036&Depa=0&WaterMark=1&Description=ASUS%20PCI-G31%20PCI%20Wireless%20Adapter]("http://www.newegg.com/Product/ImageGallery.aspx?CurImage=33-320-036-Z05&ISList=33-320-036-Z01%2c33-320-036-Z02%2c33-320-036-Z03%2c33-320-036-Z04%2c33-320-036-Z05&S7ImageFlag=1&Item=N82E16833320036&Depa=0&WaterMark=1&Description=ASUS%20PCI-G31%20PCI%20Wireless%20Adapter")


Also it sound like RAM might be the bottleneck, how much do you have? It could also be the CPU. If stepping is turned on the procssor might only be running as low as 800Mhz and jumping to 2.4Ghz when needed, which might cause your tearing. You can turn it off from BIOS in most cases, but your computer temps might go a bit higher.

Thank you for the link. 
I have set the min CPU speed to 2.4GHz and it stays there. Heat isn't an issue. 512MB allocated to the graphics card & the system has 2GB. 

I tried a tip by SiHa and it seems to have solved my HD issues. I watched it for only 5 minutes, so I'm hoping it looks as good when I try it again later in the day.

---

### Post by cedyathome on 2010-03-05
I wanted to close this out..

I tried all the tweaks listed in previous replies to this thread.

The changes I made have not allowed me to move to VDPAU Normal. When I do, I still see an occasional stutter in the video. It is most pronounced when there is a news ticker scrolling across the bottom of the screen. The scrolling stutters.

Thanks all for your links to the wi-fi cards and tips on tuning the xorg.conf.

I am back to using Bob2X for HD and Temporal 2X for SD.

---

