---
title: "9.10, SA3250HD, recording interlace issues"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-11-05
I've recently upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10(fresh installation).  

I'm having interlace issues with my SA3250HD stb recording HD over firewire.

Previously in 9.04 I had beautiful picture with no issues at all - live and recorded.  Since upgrading to 9.10, my recorded tv picture quality isn't the same.

As far as I can see, the LiveTV picture is crisp.  Recorded shows have serious interlacing issues.  If anything moves quickly I see lines everywhere (esp on a white background).  If I go directly to the SA3250HD box, I have no interlacing issues.

I know it's not the internal player's problem, because I have 1080p and 720p movies that run perfectly fine.  And as I said, LiveTV seems to work fine :confused:

I can watch the recorded files on my windows box using VLC and the lines show up there, a long with VLC on the backend (outside of myth). This leads me to believe that it's being recorded with the interlacing issue, and it's not a playback problem.

I've looked around for that setting for Bob(?) deinterlacer, but I don't see it in mythtv .22.

I've also noticed that MythTV is marking all my HD recordings as 1080, not 720.  Which is strange because I don't think any of them are actually in 1080.  If I could figure out a way to force it to record 720 this might fix my problem.  I don't know.

Shows it's marking as 1080: V, Law and Order, America's Next Top Model (for the GF!!).  I have a large lineup tonight of Flashforward, Greys and Private practice.

I suspect (please confirm) that all three of these are broadcast in 720.  If Myth says they're 1080, then wtf?

Can anyone help me please?!  I absolutely love the new version, but I really want to clean up this interlacing issue I have (everything else is flawless!)

---

### Post by SiHa on 2009-11-06
You can find the deinterlacer setting in your playback profile (TV Settings -> Playback. 3rd or 4th page, I think). Whatever playback profile you're using, select an entry (rez >0,0 VDPAU, or whatever) and select EDIT. On the second page of the edit menus you can select the deinterlacer.

---

