---
title: ".22 frontend with a .21 backend?"
date: 2009-08-22
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Eric Boring on 2009-08-22
Hi, I've had a mythtv backend running on Hardy Heron for about a year now. It is version .21.  I just install Karmic on a netbook, and the default myth frontend seems to be .22. These two versions do not seem to be willing to play together. 

So would it be easier to install .21 on Karmic or should I go ahead and upgrade the Hardy backend to .22? Would I have to upgrade the entire distro, or could I just upgrade the package? 

Thanks!

-Josh

---

### Post by mitchell2345 on 2009-08-22
yea they will not work together.

.22 has alot of new features but there are issues.  Its not stable code.

I am not sure how to install .21 in karmic but i would upgrade your backend yet unless you really know what you are doing.

Mitchell

---

### Post by Eric Boring on 2009-08-23
Thanks Mitchell,

Does anyone else have any advice for installing 0.21 in Karmic Koala? I can't imagine I'll be the only one with this problem. I did try compiling 0.21 from source, but I get a ./configure error that says I need FreeType installed. I compiled FreeType 2, but that didn't help. So I tried to configure FreeType 1, but that ./configure gave me a bunch of errors as well. 

Is there a way to enable the old repositories and just graph mythtv 0.21? How would i do that?

Thanks!

-Josh

---

### Post by klc5555 on 2009-08-24
> **Eric Boring said:**
> Hi, I've had a mythtv backend running on Hardy Heron for about a year now. It is version .21.  I just install Karmic on a netbook, and the default myth frontend seems to be .22. These two versions do not seem to be willing to play together. 

So would it be easier to install .21 on Karmic or should I go ahead and upgrade the Hardy backend to .22? Would I have to upgrade the entire distro, or could I just upgrade the package? 

Thanks!

-Josh

Clearly the best way is to install the stable Jaunty on the netbook and use the stable default mythfrontend 0.21 for Jaunty. Alpha OS code plus unstable mythtv code can't be a really good recipe for success.

A much less good attempt would be, having uninstalled all trace of mythtv from your Karmic Alpha install, go to packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/graphics with your browser, click to download the specific 0.21 packages mythtv-frontend and mythtv-common (you clearly don't need mysql or any of the backend stuff), and see whether gdebi from your browser can install them without blowing up or requiring that a dependency be patched in that blows you up.


That accomplished (a big "if") then try running "mythfrontend" from a prompt and see whether it's runnable, configurable, and usable on Karmic. 

Worst attempt of all would be, if you have a long-running and stable master backend setup with 0.21, to upgrade it for no discernable reason to the not-ready-for-release Mythtv 0.22. 'Cause even when it's released, 0.22 will be bound to break stuff for quite a while until the problems begin to sort themselves out. It's just the way new releases are.

---

### Post by Eric Boring on 2009-08-24
Thanks klc5555. Indeed, I would have preferred the stable Jaunty to Karmic. But my network connections work out of the box in the Karmic alphas (I have an Asus 1005). So I went with that. I'd rather be strugging with mythfrontend than struggling to get online. I may do  separate partition of Jaunty for the mythfrontend for now. Or perhaps I can use virutal box?

Thanks for the advice.
-Josh

---

### Post by klc5555 on 2009-08-24
> **Eric Boring said:**
> Thanks klc5555. Indeed, I would have preferred the stable Jaunty to Karmic. But my network connections work out of the box in the Karmic alphas (I have an Asus 1005). So I went with that. I'd rather be strugging with mythfrontend than struggling to get online. I may do  separate partition of Jaunty for the mythfrontend for now. Or perhaps I can use virutal box?

Thanks for the advice.
-Josh

Ah. The Asus 1005 does appear to be pain in the rear.

Then give the mythtv-frontend and mythtv-common packages from Jaunty a try in your Karmic installation, as mentioned above. If it works, it'll be easier (and more permanently usable) than either of your proposed solutions, whereas if it fails completely you'll have wasted maybe a half hour. The older .deb files should load I'd think --it ought to be a question of whether one of the dependencies causes a problem. 

Good luck!

---

### Post by Eric Boring on 2009-08-24
Actually, your instructions worked great! I completely removed all of the mythtv 0.22 packages I'd installed. Then I downloaded the deb files for mythtv common and mythtv-frontend. Installed common first, then frontend, and it fired right up.

The only problem I'm having is getting the low-powered processor in the netbook to play the video properlly. But I'll save that for another post.

Thanks!

-Josh

---

### Post by ullix on 2009-08-25
I also have a problem related to 0.22 -- 0.21, but the error message seems different.

My backend is on intrepid; my frontend is the netbook Acer Aspire One, which worked quite well with installs of intrepid, jaunty, and (until recently) karmic. But it had many problems with its intel-video and its wireless, while those things work with karmic, so I don't want to go back.

Starting the frontend on karmic since a few days yields the error message:
```
This version of MythTV requires an updated database.(schema is 28 versions behind)

Please run mythtv-setup or mythbackend to update your database.
MythTV was unable to backup your database
```

Needless to say that the proposed remedies did not work.

Is there a chance that the 0.22 version frontend will cooperate with the 0.21 version backend? Or a downgrade for karmic be made available?

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2009-08-25
.22 frontends will not work with .21 backends. Your best bet right now is to use the jaunty packages. I'll see what I can swing for a Final .21 Karmic package in the weekly builds.

---

### Post by Eric Boring on 2009-08-28
> **ullix said:**
> I also have a problem related to 0.22 -- 0.21, but the error message seems different.



Actually,that is the exact same error message that I was getting. Try the haunty packages as described above. Worked great for me.'

-Jodh

---

### Post by joshoekstra on 2009-08-31
> **Eric Boring said:**
> Actually,that is the exact same error message that I was getting. Try the haunty packages as described above. Worked great for me.'

-Jodh

It seems a good sign that it didn't try to upgrade the DB-scheme, I got bit by that one once using mixed mythbuntu/fedora setup.

BTW Cool that .22 is already in Karmic, means a lot of users will be able to use the latest and greatest :)

---

### Post by kcox5342 on 2009-10-08
I have also had success with the method posted in this thread.  One problem, however - Update Manager now has all the 0.22 parts and it's very eager for me to update to them.  There's an orange update alert that won't go away.  How do I let UM know, permanently, that I have no desire to go to 0.22 right now?

Edit: did some digging in Synaptic and found the "lock version" command under Packages.  This seems to have removed it from Update Manager.  Now, what happens if there are updates to 0.21?  Is there a way to update 0.21 automatically without also automatically going on to 0.22?

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2009-10-08
> **kcox5342 said:**
> I have also had success with the method posted in this thread.  One problem, however - Update Manager now has all the 0.22 parts and it's very eager for me to update to them.  There's an orange update alert that won't go away.  How do I let UM know, permanently, that I have no desire to go to 0.22 right now?

Edit: did some digging in Synaptic and found the "lock version" command under Packages.  This seems to have removed it from Update Manager.  Now, what happens if there are updates to 0.21?  Is there a way to update 0.21 automatically without also automatically going on to 0.22?

What method did you use to install the 0.21 packages?

---

### Post by kcox5342 on 2009-10-08
> **tgm4883 said:**
> What method did you use to install the 0.21 packages?

I installed mythtv-frontend and mythtv-common from [http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/) - I had to install a couple dependencies as well.  It's pretty easy - when you try to install a package with dependencies, the installer tells you what's missing, and you have to go back to the top URL and search for it, so it's not as simple as Synaptic but not difficult.

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2009-10-08
> **kcox5342 said:**
> I installed mythtv-frontend and mythtv-common from [http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/) - I had to install a couple dependencies as well.  It's pretty easy - when you try to install a package with dependencies, the installer tells you what's missing, and you have to go back to the top URL and search for it, so it's not as simple as Synaptic but not difficult.

Well, in order to get updates, you will need to manually download them and install them. They won't come in automatically

---

### Post by AndBurns on 2009-12-19
Eric,

I have the same problem, but am unclear on how to get the jaunty packages to work under Karmic -- altho in my case I need to install the back end in Karmic.  The initial efforts I made in this direction had me in dependency heck.

Could you be a bit more specific about how where you got the packages and what steps you had to take?

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

Alternatively if anyone knows how to get a 22 front end running under jaunty jackalope that would also solve my problem.

Andrew

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2009-12-20
> **AndBurns said:**
> Eric,

I have the same problem, but am unclear on how to get the jaunty packages to work under Karmic -- altho in my case I need to install the back end in Karmic.  The initial efforts I made in this direction had me in dependency heck.

Could you be a bit more specific about how where you got the packages and what steps you had to take?

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

Alternatively if anyone knows how to get a 22 front end running under jaunty jackalope that would also solve my problem.

Andrew

Enable [mythbuntu-repos]("http://www.mythbuntu.org/auto-builds") and tell it you want to use 0.22

---

