---
title: "2250 Help"
date: 2012-06-22
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by kruzayn on 2012-06-22
So maybe I made a mistake picking up a 2250 card, as my frustration level is quite high.

I have been using MythTV for years on an old box.  I wanted to refresh my system and got all new hardware.  I liked the idea of dual tuner so I grabbed a 2250.

I have been trying all night to get this thing to work and not making much progress at all.

I have the latest version of Mythbuntu.

I grabbed the Firmware and moved it to /lib/firmware and then created options.config

I can see the card in backend, and created 2 capture cards (DVB:).

When I choose Watch TV, it just flash back to the menu.

When I try to view the stream in mplayer its just blue.  When I try to scan for channels I get failure.

I feel like ive followed the threads pretty closely; is there something obvious im missing?

Is there anyone that can do a step by step on a fresh install with a 2250?  Would I be better off returning this card and getting something else? (what is a better, more compatible choice?)

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks!

---

### Post by Lester_Burnham on 2012-06-22
Hi,

What does this give you?
dmesg | grep -i saa

Lester

---

### Post by kruzayn on 2012-06-22
```
dvr@Mythtv:~$ dmesg | grep -i saa
[   16.892730] saa7164 driver loaded
[   16.892773] saa7164 0000:05:00.0: PCI INT A -> GSI 19 (level, low) -> IRQ 19
[   16.894115] CORE saa7164[0]: subsystem: 0070:8851, board: Hauppauge WinTV-HVR2250 [card=7,insmod option]
[   16.894120] saa7164[0]/0: found at 0000:05:00.0, rev: 129, irq: 19, latency: 0, mmio: 0xfb800000
[   16.894127] saa7164 0000:05:00.0: setting latency timer to 64
[   17.056386] saa7164_downloadfirmware() no first image
[   17.056398] saa7164_downloadfirmware() Waiting for firmware upload (NXP7164-2010-03-10.1.fw)
[   17.149009] saa7164_downloadfirmware() firmware read 4019072 bytes.
[   17.149012] saa7164_downloadfirmware() firmware loaded.
[   17.149018] saa7164_downloadfirmware() SecBootLoader.FileSize = 4019072
[   17.149026] saa7164_downloadfirmware() FirmwareSize = 0x1fd6
[   17.149028] saa7164_downloadfirmware() BSLSize = 0x0
[   17.149029] saa7164_downloadfirmware() Reserved = 0x0
[   17.149030] saa7164_downloadfirmware() Version = 0x1661c00
[   23.991295] saa7164_downloadimage() Image downloaded, booting...
[   24.095096] saa7164_downloadimage() Image booted successfully.
[   26.031453] saa7164_downloadimage() Image downloaded, booting...
[   27.899942] saa7164_downloadimage() Image booted successfully.
[   27.944413] tveeprom 0-0000: audio processor is SAA7164 (idx 43)
[   27.944415] tveeprom 0-0000: decoder processor is SAA7164 (idx 40)
[   27.944418] saa7164[0]: Hauppauge eeprom: model=88061
[   28.611902] DVB: registering new adapter (saa7164)
[   31.891004] DVB: registering new adapter (saa7164)
[   31.891415] saa7164[0]: registered device video0 [mpeg]
[   32.121544] saa7164[0]: registered device video1 [mpeg]
[   32.332031] saa7164[0]: registered device vbi0 [vbi]
[   32.332075] saa7164[0]: registered device vbi1 [vbi]

```

Above is the output requested.

Thank you.

---

### Post by Lester_Burnham on 2012-06-23
Hi,

That looks OK.
Where are you located?
Check if the dvb-utils (could be called dvb-apps)package is installed and try using scan to make a channels.conf.
```
scan /usr/share/dvb/dvb-t/**your_location_here** | tee > channels.conf

```
Assuming you are using dvb-t, look in that folder to find your nearest location.
Make sure myth backend is stopped or open dvb card on demand is checked under capture cards>recording options

Another way to test if you have a channels.conf already is, open VLC and Go to Advanced, open file in VLC. Open a channels.conf file if you have one and hit play.
To change channels, go to View>Playlist

Someone else might be able to pinpoint it quicker, as I'm just following a path to check what is working.

Lester

---

### Post by LowSky on 2012-06-23
Have you followed my instructions?
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7344302&postcount=10](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7344302&postcount=10)

---

### Post by kruzayn on 2012-06-25
@Lester, I am in the US, Minnesota.

I will give it a shot and report back.

@LowSky, I did follow your post, that got me as far as I am.  I didnt do the Kernel stuff based on the description the version I am running shouldnt need it.

I am able to see some TV when i run Kaffeine, scan channels, and then watch one.  But in MythTV when I try to choose watch TV it just flashes 'Please Wait' then drops back into the menu after a second or two.

After following LowSkys directions, the card shows up in Backend Setup and i was able to add it.  I feel like channels might be the issue?  I have schedules direct and tried to choose the option to pull channels from them, and also to scan.  After scanning it did look to find some channels; but I still cant get it to play.

Thanks for all the assistance.  I appreciate it.

---

### Post by Lester_Burnham on 2012-06-25
Hi, 

Have you setup your video profiles in Mythtv as well and played a video to test as well.
Not sure if you're running a nvidia card or not (vdpau)

Lester

---

### Post by kruzayn on 2012-06-25
Previous to running ```
scan /usr/share/dvb/astc/**your_location_here** | tee > channels.conf
```

my channels.conf file was blank.

I then ran the command above and it populated the channels.conf file.  I can now open that file in VLC and choose a channel and watch it, but in MythTV when choosing Watch TV it still spits me right back to the menu.

---

### Post by Lester_Burnham on 2012-06-25
Hi,

So nothing wrong with the tv card.
I can't remember if you said Mythtv scanned and channels and failed. If it did, do a scan and import the channels.conf
If that goes OK and it still doesn't work, look at video playback profiles and video drivers. What video card you using?
If you know, video is all ok. I would delete any previously setup channels in Mythtv and import the channels.conf

Lester

---

### Post by kruzayn on 2012-06-26
OK, After some time in the IRC channel I got it so i can view live TV.  Hurray!  Turns out the starting channel wasnt one that I got, which was causing all the problems.

Now I move on to another problem.  What is the best way to get my channels pulled in?  I have a TON of channels with no info.  I use schedules direct, can I pull the channel lineup from them so I only have real channels?

Thanks again for all the assistance!

---

### Post by Lester_Burnham on 2012-06-26
Hi,

When it comes from schedules direct, I have no idea.
So, I take it, you've selected schedules direct in video sources during backend setup.
There is an option when adding a video source to the card, to fetch listings from source or something like that.

Better of waiting for someone in the USA to respond.

Lester

---

