---
title: "9.10 RC and VDPAU - not working for me"
date: 2009-10-28
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Dewey_Oxberger on 2009-10-28
With a clean install of 9.10RC, updated (with no new software sources added) VDPAU doesn't work for me on an ASUS board with NVidia 8300 on any of the VDPAU profiles.  Live TV (from and HDHomeRun) is choppy and crashes to desktop.  Not much in the logs.  DVD playback fails.  Logs showed an error that I can't recall now (what bonehead, I'll post back tonight) but it indicated a failure in VDPAU initialization.

Adding weekly builds and updating didn't fix it but it did change it.  Now I get crazy fast video that goes out of sync with the audio, then pauses, then goes crazy fast again.  I'm the stock 9.10 185 driver.  Should I be updating it?  What's a good nvidia driver in the vdpau era?

---

### Post by jwbrown77 on 2009-10-28
Has this particular card you're using been confirmed to work with VDPAU in any version of Mythbuntu?

Can you try playing back an x264 encoded file using the vdpau playback in mplayer and see if you get the same behavior?

---

### Post by bsntech on 2009-10-28
When I upgraded to 9.10, I had to create the VDPAU profile but after that, it has worked fine.  I am running the 185.x.36 nVidia driver on my GeForce 8200 integrated card.

You may need to check your VDPAU profile to ensure you are using the correct deinterlacers.  The 8300 card can only do so much.

Here is a site that will show you what deinterlacers your card will support:

[http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/VDPAU]("http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/VDPAU")

This site doesn't mention the 8300 in the table, but down below, it does mention using Temporal 2x.

So, just trial and error to see what your card will do.  Go through each of the deinterlacers in the playback profile and see which - if any - work best for you.

---

### Post by SiHa on 2009-10-28
Well, I've just installed todays (28th Oct) daily i386 image. I have an integrated 8200, and yes, it has three pre-defined VDPAU profiles now. 

Both VDPAU Slim & VDPAU Normal work fine with 720p content (all I have), VDPAU High-Quality is very choppy, but that's probably to be expected with this chipset.

CPU usage is ~ 18% for Slim & Normal

The 'Normal' profile does give a 7-8deg C rise on the GPU core temp (to 68deg), but seems to be stable, although I only left it to run for 5-10 minutes.

Unfortunately, I can't comment on audio sync, and I'm using my new frontend as a testing platform for now, it's nowhere near the TV, and I can't be arsed to connect any speakers.

---

### Post by Dewey_Oxberger on 2009-10-28
The deinterlacer helps a lot.  It almost works.  Soooo close but the audio goes a bit out of sync from time to time and I can see the video speeding up and slowing down.  CPU usages is only 8%.  I'll keep tinkering and post back.

---

### Post by Dewey_Oxberger on 2009-10-28
It looks like using the decoder set to Nvidia Vdpau makes the problem worse.  Changing it to Standard helps.  All this is for watching hdtv.

On dvds wow, not good.  The audio and video get 10 to 15 seconds out of sync, the video is running way too many frames per second.

Strange...

With CPU+ it all works fine (just has 90% cpu usage).

---

