---
title: "16.04 kinda buggy?"
date: 2016-07-10
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by benlyboy on 2016-07-10
Hi all

I am rebuilding a system after a hard drive failure, so I thought as long as I had to reinstall I may as well move up to 16.04. but it seems kinda buggy. First up if you make your usb drive to install on a 14.04 system the boot loader doesn't work right, that’s really not a bug just a fact, but you can get past this by typing live. But after I did get it installed I have found that they still haven’t fixed mythbuntu control centre, it was bad in 14.04. in fact if any thing it seems worse. Also now now I find that mythweb doesn’t work. From what I have read it has to do with them moving from mysql 5.6 to 5.7
So are others having these problems or have I got some kinda bad install. I have tried a second installl with a second download so I don’t think so, but would be interested to hear?

---

### Post by hollywoodpete on 2016-07-10
I guess you missed [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2328382](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2328382)   I would simply say Mythbuntu 16.04 is still alpha. It works but needs a lot of work still

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-07-10
> **hollywoodpete said:**
> ...I would simply say 16.04 is still alpha.Such exaggerations are misleading. Thousands if not hundreds of thousands of people have installed Xenial without any problems. We don't hear from them because they have no reason to post on these forums. I have installed many different flavours of Xenial on dozens of machines, all without problems. Moreover, a burst of bugs and frustrated users are typical after every version comes out. 16.04 is not going to be any more stable than 15.10 or 15.04 were when they were first released (or 14.04 for that matter). In this respect, many users jumped the gun on 16.04 and should wait until the first point release before installing. But to call Xenial alpha code is simply going too far.

> **benlyboy said:**
> ...I thought as long as I had to reinstall I may as well move up to 16.04. but it seems kinda buggy...are others having these problems...would be interested to hear?There is no question that Trusty is more stable than Xenial. Trusty has had the benefit of over 2 years of refinement and four point releases to become very stable. Those looking for stability should stick to Trusty until Xenial has had some time to work out the issues that are natural to any new release. A lot of issues (though no guarantee that yours will be included) should be addressed by the first point release due out any day now. Perhaps you should wait until 16.04.1 before trying again.

---

### Post by hollywoodpete on 2016-07-10
"Such exaggerations are misleading. Thousands if not hundreds of thousands of people have installed Xenial without any problems."

Ubuntu 16.04 Xenial is fine for a new release. Mythbuntu 16.04 is not. Myth describes itself as Beta software. I wasn't trying to exaggerate or be a drama queen but if someones want a stable, solid version of Mythbuntu, 14.04 would be a good choice. For some people, Mythbuntu 16.04 is going to take a little extra effort and is not Plug-n-play. YET

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-07-10
> **DuckHook said:**
> ... by the first point release due out any day now.

Yes, it will be out 21. of July:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule)

---

### Post by benlyboy on 2016-07-11
I seem to have upset some people,  that wasn't my intention.
 
My heading has a question mark at the end of it as it was just that, a question not a statement.

I know 16.04 is new.. and I like a lot of what I see. But I was hoping for help to get these problems fixed and to find out if maybe its my system hardware configuration or the OS problem. In the case of the control centre I haven’t been able to set myth id, password  using it since 14.04 that's a long time with no fix.

i travel a so mythweb is impotent to me that why I asked.

thanks for your time

---

