---
title: "[8.04] Mytbuntu: Pinnacle PCTV 400e Signal 75% but no lock"
date: 2008-05-31
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Verzweifler on 2008-05-31
I am using Mythbuntu 8.04 and currently face issues with my Pinnacle PCTV 400e USB2.0 DVB-Box. 
I downloaded the proper firmware and dmesg tells me that the card was recognized and installed correctly:
```
[  246.296905] usb 5-1: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 3
[  246.429720] usb 5-1: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[  246.430164] dvb-usb: found a 'Pinnacle 400e DVB-S USB2.0' in warm state.
[  246.431112] dvb-usb: will pass the complete MPEG2 transport stream to the software demuxer.
[  246.431562] DVB: registering new adapter (Pinnacle 400e DVB-S USB2.0)
[  246.511328] DVB: registering frontend 2 (Philips TDA10086 DVB-S)...
[  246.700200] dvb-usb: Pinnacle 400e DVB-S USB2.0 successfully initialized and connected.

```
I was able to define the new card to MythSetup but whenever I switch input to the newly added card, I end up with a black screen, then the OSD containing the appropriate channel infos/icon appears and tells me a signal strength of more than 75% (my other cards often have below 70% and still work) but a "no lock", i.e. (l__)... that's it.

I have no clue what is wrong or where to look for more info, because that very special box worked just fine under mythtv-0.20-fixes and now just stopped...

Any hints?

---

### Post by Verzweifler on 2008-06-02
Refer to my post in this thread
 [INDENT][http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4834676]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4834676")[/INDENT]
for a solution...

---

### Post by Verzweifler on 2008-06-06
Well, it really DID solve the problem but another came up:
All my recordings (including Live-TV, which is also a recording per definition) now have a maximum length of about 3 to 4 minutes. On Live-TV, this means that after 4 minutes, the screen freezes and I have to exit and re-enter Live-TV to continue. WAF turns to zero on that...
Recordings, regardless of their scheduled length, just contain 3 to 4 minutes and then end.

I DO blame it on the changes I made, since I did nothing else on the system that day. 

So please be cautious when doing this; it may just hose your recordings and turn your wife angry...:( 

I guess the best way is to just get rid off the modules created, however, I have no clue how to do this. I'll open a different thread on this.

Edit: Damn! I should have taken more care when accepting system updates. A new kernel was introduced (I built the packages on *-17 but then *-18 kicked in) so just rebuilding the whole stuff resolved that issue again... Argggh! I am stupid...

---

