---
title: "9.10 werid behavior"
date: 2009-11-07
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by MonsterMaxx on 2009-11-07
For ever I have used arrow keys to navigate recorded programs, when I got to the one I'd want to do something with a right arrow would bring up a menu of things I could do to it, like delete, edit the recording schedule, etc.

Now in the latest version this arrow key does nothing anymore.

WTF?

now what?

---

### Post by xinix on 2009-11-07
try the 'I' key when you get to the program you select.

---

### Post by linuxgrrl on 2009-11-07
I think you can also hit return to get to the recording menu (formerly right arrow).  I saw a discussion about this in mythtv-users ... somehow the new behavior is supposed to be better for remote controls ... though I don't use one so I wouldn't know.

---

### Post by alexyz on 2009-11-07
This was changed to support themes with horizontal list scrolling.

I don't particularly like the new horizontal themes in terms of usability or looks.  And changing the behavior IMO is borderline broken for vertical themes, especially when you consider how on most remotes the "I" button is tiny.  Here's a thread with details, including some amusing flames

[http://www.gossamer-threads.com/lists/mythtv/users/405546](http://www.gossamer-threads.com/lists/mythtv/users/405546)

apparently many people don't see this as a problem at all.  I'm not going to flame about it but as I said, borderline broken IMO.  I figure somebody will work out a good way to hack it eventually.  I started to look into it but the new theming system is pretty complicated.

---

### Post by MonsterMaxx on 2009-11-07
no, return just makes it play, I tried that.

"I" works, pretty well ruins use of remotes

---

### Post by nickrout on 2009-11-07
> **MonsterMaxx said:**
> no, return just makes it play, I tried that.

"I" works, pretty well ruins use of remotes

"I" should be mapped on your remote, it has always been an important key in myth use.

---

### Post by SiHa on 2009-11-08
> "I" should be mapped on your remote, it has always been an important key in myth use. Never needed it in 18 months myself.

On my remote (a Hauppauge one, so fairly common), it is combined with the 'Menu' ('M' on the keyboard), which is also required to bring up different menus. Kinda hard to have two keys both mapped to the same button.
There is no suitably named button to map it to, so I have mapped it to the 'Prev Ch' button instead. 

As it happens, we use a one-for-all in the lounge, which does have both 'Menu' and 'i' Keys, but it's still annoying, and much slower if I want to go back and delete a few old shows.

---

### Post by xinix on 2009-11-09
I can see how this is a problem if the remote does not have a convenient button for this purpose.  My remote has the generic red, green, blue, yellow buttons so I mapped 'I' to the yellow one.

---

### Post by alexyz on 2009-11-09
One comment:  accessing the menu is only half the problem.  For me, the previous vertical menu navigation model just works better.  You can navigate the entire menu tree and watch/delete recordings using only the 4 arrow keys.  The arrow keys are usually big buttons, close to each other, and 4 buttons are much easier to navigate blind than 6.  Especially when the menu and info buttons are tiny (not myth's problem, but true of most remotes).

I still want to modify this even if I can map another button to the info menu.  I looked into it a little but but couldn't figure out where to start.  Actually I don't think it's possible to change in a theme, you'd have to change system-wide (which would break horizontal themes).

---

### Post by geolizardo on 2009-11-09
This is driving me batty.  I thought it was just me.  I thought it was just the theme.  Then I tried reprogramming the remote. Nothing worked. 

I also remember the left and right arrows backing me right out of the "Watch recordings" screen. Now I just get this annoying rotation (groups-programs-groups-programs...)till I use a different button. 

I am one of the 6 people left, I guess, that still doesn't have a wide screen 46+" TV.  I am still watching TV on a 36" 4:3 bubble.  All the fonts are WAY too small by default.
  
Number of widescreen themes? many.  
Number of 4:3 Themes? One.
For anything else, there's Mastercard.

Unfortunately, if I buy the new TV I want, my wife will just take it in the divorce.;)
Looking forward to the "Fred Flintstone" theme come out in the recently announced theme competition.

---

