---
title: "11.10 worked, 12.04 causes blue screen W/sound"
date: 2012-08-22
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Panhead Bill on 2012-08-22
Toshiba laptop M45 S331 W/faster cpu.
Driver i915.  Video chip 915GM/GMS/910GML

11.10 played back recordings and skipped ahead properly.
12.04 will shift to a solid blue screen with the sound active, usually when skipping ahead, but also when I let it play untouched.

Any leads as to where to start?

TIA

---

### Post by Panhead Bill on 2012-08-30
Additional info:
When screen goes blue, it takes 4 escapes to get back to the recordings screen.

  If I go back to the recording without restarting it will soon be blue again.  If I escape mythbuntu and restart the front end, it varies from a couple of minutes to instant blue screen.  If I restart the laptop, then I can watch several minutes of the recording.

I installed a temperature/cpu usage monitor program and the Motherboard, cpu and hard drive temps are good.  The cpu useage is at 50-60% while wathcing a recording, but the blue screen event is when the cpu useage drops to about 5%.

---

### Post by Rotak on 2012-09-01
This is a wild guess: Did you try to uninstall the video card driver or use another version or another kernel version?

I am using 12.04 with a 2.6.39.4mag kernel to work around several issues I had with 3.x kernels.

---

### Post by Panhead Bill on 2012-09-11
No, I did a standard synaptic upgrade to 12.04 and the problems started.  

Additional info;  When I shut down and  cold start after a blue screen, the system opens to the "select the country where you currently reside" screen.  Followed by Database configuration 1/2 and 2/2.  All of the settings are correct so I just have to save and exit. Then mythbuntu will work, at least until the next blue screen.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-09-11
Start the frontend from a terminal..then you can get some debugging info.

mythfrontend

use mythfrontend --help to check the -v options (verbose)

There are video playback profile changes between versions.
Some (old) video playback methods have been removed/changed.
It is recommended to re-scan the audio device after major updates.

---

### Post by Rotak on 2012-09-11
> **Panhead Bill said:**
> 
Additional info;  When I shut down and  cold start after a blue screen, the system opens to the "select the country where you currently reside" screen.

This usually happens, when the backend is not (yet) running when the frontend starts. If you shut down the frontend (hit ESC until it's gone) and restart it from the menu, it should run. If it doesn't = bigger issue. If it runs, there is a workaround.

To avoid frontend startup before the backend actually runs, you can  configure the frontend to wake up the backend. That will make the  frontend wait instead of showing you the setup dialog. But it won't  solve your blue screen issue. :(

I also ran into the problem with the changed playback profiles. It may indeed fix it. I didn't get a blue screen, but a strobe-style stop-motion picture. Something that could make you throw up.

---

### Post by Panhead Bill on 2012-09-14
BicyclerBoy:  When the front end went bluescreen, the terminal gave me a whole bunch of the following - 2012-09-14 19:47:40.178720 I  AO: audio waiting for buffer to fill: have 7392 want 12000

So it appears to be a buffer issue, but the video goes blue and the sound carries on for a bit (maybe for the length of 7392?).

---

### Post by Lester_Burnham on 2012-09-14
Hi,

What video profile are you using. I would change to slim and see if you can at least get it working.

Lester

---

### Post by Panhead Bill on 2012-09-14
Video Profile? Change to slim? 

Are these part of the front end setup?

---

### Post by nickrout on 2012-09-15
> **Panhead Bill said:**
> Video Profile? Change to slim? 

Are these part of the front end setup?

yes.

---

### Post by looseye on 2012-12-07
> **Rotak said:**
> To avoid frontend startup before the backend actually runs, you can  configure the frontend to wake up the backend. That will make the  frontend wait instead of showing you the setup dialog. But it won't solve your blue screen issue.

Would you please elaborate on this procedure? I'm trying to help my friend with a similar issue on his laptop. He is running Mythbuntu 12.04, I believe. He uses this laptop to watch DVD's when he is away from home. When watching a DVD, after a few minutes, the screen will go blue and sound continues playing. I believe it may be related to a message at startup, when his laptop is not connected to the network, that it cannot connect to master backend server. It has both frontend and backend installed. I tried changing from DHCP to static IP and input all the correct network configuration manually (subnet, DNS, gateway) as was suggested in another thread, but did not help. It seems to play a DVD fine when connected to the network, but has the blue screen issue when he is away from home and has no network connection.

---

