---
title: "Live CD Front end can't connect to backend"
date: 2011-02-12
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by sbrattonuk on 2011-02-12
Hi

I've a Mythbuntu 10.04, mythtv 0.23 setup running nicely as a master BE & FE on the same box.  (My wife can even use it and wants me to expand the system).

Now has come the time to get MythTV running with remote Frontends.  Trying the Live CD I can't get the live FE to connect to the backend.

BE : is fully setup with manual IP address 192.168.1.91 in both sections on the BE setup config.
Pin is set to 0000

FE testing connection to BE enter the PIN as 0000 then click "test" this fails, I get no further than the first step

Questions :
[LIST=1]
[*]How does the FE find the back end, I'm guessing uPnP ?  
[*]How do I check if the BE has uPnP running?
[*]Do the machines need to be on the same workgroup?
[*]Is there anything else I need to check if it is running on the BE, eg mysql?
[/LIST]

Other information:
The BE is on workgroup .mshome as appears on my network as BTV1.mshome  The rest of my network is on workgroup .home (as assigned by my router).  However pining btv1.mshome fails but pinging btv1.home succeeds.

Could this be where my issue resides ? or am I barking up the wrong tree.

Thanks in advance
Steven

---

### Post by nickrout on 2011-02-13
> **sbrattonuk said:**
> Hi

I've a Mythbuntu 10.04, mythtv 0.23 setup running nicely as a master BE & FE on the same box.  (My wife can even use it and wants me to expand the system).

Now has come the time to get MythTV running with remote Frontends.  Trying the Live CD I can't get the live FE to connect to the backend.

BE : is fully setup with manual IP address 192.168.1.91 in both sections on the BE setup config.
Pin is set to 0000

FE testing connection to BE enter the PIN as 0000 then click "test" this fails, I get no further than the first step

Questions :
[LIST=1]
[*]How does the FE find the back end, I'm guessing uPnP ?  
[*]How do I check if the BE has uPnP running?
[*]Do the machines need to be on the same workgroup?
[*]Is there anything else I need to check if it is running on the BE, eg mysql?
[/LIST]

Other information:
The BE is on workgroup .mshome as appears on my network as BTV1.mshome  The rest of my network is on workgroup .home (as assigned by my router).  However pining btv1.mshome fails but pinging btv1.home succeeds.

Could this be where my issue resides ? or am I barking up the wrong tree.

Thanks in advance
Steven

Workgroups are an MS concept to do with smb/cifs networking, so have nothing to do with it.

---

### Post by nhtrader on 2011-02-14
> **sbrattonuk said:**
> 
FE testing connection to BE enter the PIN as 0000 then click "test" this fails, I get no further than the first step


Can I ask what was the error message when you pressed "Test Connection" and it failed?

---

### Post by sbrattonuk on 2011-02-25
Sorry for the delay, work sent me to Sunny South Africa for a week, beats the UK cold.
____________
Connection Results:
Could not find database login
credentials
____________
Thanks
Steven

---

### Post by sbrattonuk on 2011-02-25
Just had a thought, what user name does the live CD use to login to the database on a backend.


I've got the remote backend set up as user = <mythuser>
Could the live CD be trying to login with user = <mythtv>
I assume my backend still has the mythtv user name as a valid login.


If not is there any way to force the live CD to use <mythuser>


Thanks
Steven

---

### Post by AlecJ on 2011-02-25
On the BE/FE machine, 

in Mythbuntu Control Centre, under the MySQL tab, enable Master Backend Role
in MYTHTV Backend Setup/ General, ensure both IP's are the same and the port is 6543 and the status port is 6544, also note the pin number
The IP address must be the same as the Machine, so use a static IP.

I was unable to make Network Manager do this, so it is done manually,
edit /etc/network/interfaces   to look something like this

```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.92
gateway 192.168.1.??? (whatever your routers address)
netmask 255.255.255.0
```and /etc/resolv.conf

```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.??? (whatever your routers address)
```if you leave resolv.conf there will be no internet and no updates.

In the FE on the BE in settings/General make a note of the data base name, username and the password


On the new remote Frontend

On startup it will go looking for the uPnP and when found, May? ask for the username and password of your BE

I also use a static IP here, just to stop things moving about, very bad calmer when trying to VNC to a remote frontend.

Any Music or Video Folders will have to shared and mounted outside of Myth, either SMB or NFS, your choice. Then point the remote frontend to said Folders in mythmusic and or Videos.
HD does not Stream well over even on a 1Gb network. But LiveTV, music, videos and recorded TV works well.

For a LiveCD, the versions of MythTV must be the same, there is another Thread on this subject on here.

---

### Post by sbrattonuk on 2011-02-25
BE/FE machine - Mysql section of control center has database enabled.

Backend setup - general page has fixed ip address 192.168.1.91 in both sections and the ports as 6543 & 6544 as described, Pin is 0000.

My router assigns a static address to the BE/FE machine so I guess I shouldn't need to mess with the network settings on this machine.

On the BE/FE machine test connection succeeds and gives me the green tick.


I'm still stuck, I'm now thinking the problem is along the lines of network device discovery issue with uPnP.  Are there any network tools I can run from a remote machine to search for uPnP devices on my network to see if I can detect the myth BE/FE.

Thanks for your advice so far.
Steven

---

### Post by sbrattonuk on 2011-02-25
I ran a heavy weight security scan (Nessus default scan)to the BE/FE machine.

port 6543 was present (lds-distrib)
but no mention of port 6544
Mysql was open on port 3306
No mention of uPnP 

Steven

---

### Post by AlecJ on 2011-02-25
> **sbrattonuk said:**
> 

On the BE/FE machine test connection succeeds and gives me the green tick.


You mean on the remote front end machine?
can you ping the backend across the network?

I have to mess with the network setting, the router setting was not enough

---

### Post by sbrattonuk on 2011-02-26
Yes the machine can be pinged
I can even login to mythweb and watch/setup recordings

A bit of searching, gave another idea but I don't know how to check it out.  Could the mysql database be only running on loopback and not the ethernet adapter? 

I'll try fiddling with network settings if I get time tonight.
also tried 10.04 live cd instead of 10.10, no joy there either.

Steven

---

### Post by sbrattonuk on 2011-02-26
No joy with the etc/network/interfaces.conf and /etc/resolve.conf  editting, these have made no change.

Just found something in /etc/mysql/my.cnf file 
the mysyl server is set to only listen on 127.0.0.1  
change the bind address to 192.168.1.91 (IP of BE machine)  sql
  No improvement here

---

### Post by ijumpship on 2011-03-01
So here is what I think.

You cannot use a 10.10 live cd with a 10.04 BE. Why? the mythtv protocols are different.
10.04 use protocols for 0.23 and 10.10 live CD uses 0.23.1.You did not state clearly why you were not connecting.

One thing I know is that you need to set the IP on your backend to a static address first with network manager and then in the BE setup menu.
 test it first on your BE/FE machine to make sure its ok.

You also need to enable the mysql to connect under MCC.

The Live CD should connect and show you what available BE you have if both are on the same network.

---

### Post by sbrattonuk on 2011-03-01
ijumpship
I've rechecked versions and my BE/FE machine this is running 10.10, The remote FE was a 10.10 live CD.


BE/FE has the static IP setup in network manager as described by AlecJ
and in the BE setup menu.


Mysql is set up in the MCC of FE/BE and confirmed on this machine to be working.






It's the connection to the DB from the remote FE that I've got problems with.  I know it should just work now but it doesn't.  Being the scientist I am I know i need to probe the system to find where in the link things break down, but I don't have the technical knowledge of myth, upnp and mysql to deduce where the breakdown lies.


In order to diagnose the root cause I need answers to :
Is mysql database accepting remote connections ? : (not neccesarily from a myth FE, could be another desktop machine).
Is uPnP active and working on the FE/BE ?
How does the remote FE find the BE on the network ?
Is the remote FE actually detecting the FE/BE machine ?


Unfortunately my technical skills are lacking to find these answers.


Thanks for your help, I know it **should** work but somewhere in the complex system between remote FE UI and the BE database I've a problem.
Steven

---

### Post by ijumpship on 2011-03-02
Employ a system of elimination

Here are my suggestions

1.Open a webbrowser from your front-end and try mythweb ie.:**[http://[your](http://[your) backend]** or its IP. look for tools settings and look at your database if all is tick OKay.

2.Open a terminal and type **mythbackend --version** look at the version,if you are using a 10.10 live CD it should be** 0.23.1 fix 26437**

3.look at your **/home/ubuntu/.mythtv/config.xml** on the front end it will tell you all about your unpn.make sure your **mysql.txt**  information on the BE match all the info here


In (1) your problem is networking
In (2) your problem is with protocols.In your first post you stated that you had a 10.04 BE/FE. if upgrade or Auto build  you must enable the correct
protocols in MCC.
In (3) your problem is with your Unpn or your database.

If there is a problem with the database the front-end will complain with  error messages but if it does not, here are the logs you want to check.


**_on your frontend_**


[I]more /var/log/mythtv/mysql/error.log
[/I]

**on the backend**

*more /var/log/mythtv/mythbackend.log*

and

*more /var/log/mythtv/mysql.err*

or 

*more /var/log/mythtv/mysql.log*



Check the logs first before we start worrying about the Unpn.These are more likely to suggest where your problem lies.


I had a similar problem,where I go as far as re-install the backend mythtv partition,when I go over my notes (yes I make notes of all I am doing so I can reverse all I did).I found that its was incorrectly configuring the protocols and not enabling the BE mysql to connect to other computers on the network in MCC.

I was able to recreate the problem and since then I found that BE and FE will not talk to each others unless the protocols are the same. check (2) above. 

Post some of the logs here let us see if we can help

"Cetrius paribus" as it relates to network configuration as you said you did before

---

### Post by ijumpship on 2011-03-03
Hi sbrattonuk

I hope your problem is solved,and let us know how you get it solved so that one day when I am not in my right mind I still can find how to ssolve this or a Noob passing by.

Thanks.

Mark it solved if you do.
:guitar::lolflag:

---

### Post by sbrattonuk on 2011-03-04
Thanks for all you advice.






The issue I had was with the settings in the live front end.  
It was looking for a local backend, not the remote one.  in the live FE config.xml file I saw that the FE was looking for a local BE.  


I couldn't change the config.xml file manually so I tried a full install as opposed to running "live".


I resolved this by making a hard disk install and changing the database settings in the front end setup programme.    It connects now all I had to do was change the password to that of the BE.




:P


Now I need to improve my network speed as playback and live tv are very jumpy.   I have reason to suspect this is my network setup and not Mythtv, so that is a job for another forum  Thanks guys.


Steven

---

