---
title: ".24 Live TV ugly OSD menu?"
date: 2010-11-12
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by elgordo123 on 2010-11-12
Been running .24-1 fixes and so far it is really sweet.  However the very nice looking OSD menu that comes up in livetv has been replaced by an incredible ugly 1998 retro menu that pops up in the middle of the screen.
Is this temporary?  Is there a way to get back to the old transparent style? 

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by LowSky on 2010-11-12
You can pick a few choices from the frontend settings.

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2010-11-12
I think it depends on the theme you are using

---

### Post by elgordo123 on 2010-11-12
Thanks I'll play around with it.  I'm still on SD so I'm sure not too many people use or work on that theme.   I'll check the others.

---

### Post by shamun on 2010-12-05
i updated to .24 and now the OSD Themes look ugly :(
the old Theme look way better, did you discover how to change it back to how it was in the .23 version?

mainly its the OSD part of the GUI, but i cant find any menu entry to change only the OSD Theme without changing the overall theme

please help me :p

---

### Post by newlinux on 2010-12-05
> **shamun said:**
> i updated to .24 and now the OSD Themes look ugly :(
the old Theme look way better, did you discover how to change it back to how it was in the .23 version?

mainly its the OSD part of the GUI, but i cant find any menu entry to change only the OSD Theme without changing the overall theme

please help me :p


I don't think you can change the OSD separately from the theme in .24

---

### Post by nickrout on 2010-12-05
> **elgordo123 said:**
> Thanks I'll play around with it.  I'm still on SD so I'm sure not too many people use or work on that theme.   I'll check the others.

SD is not a theme is it?

---

### Post by Chunk of Earth on 2010-12-06
> **elgordo123 said:**
> Thanks I'll play around with it.  I'm still on SD so I'm sure not too many people use or work on that theme.   I'll check the others.
I guess by SD you mean you're using the 4:3 aspect ratio MythCenter 1.1 theme on a standard def TV. Yeah, me too. I upgraded to maverick and Myth .24 and got the big opaque OSD menu right in the middle of my video. I had problems so I reinstalled from scratch and got a nice transparent OSD. Then I restored my database and the opaque OSD came back so it must be a setting in the database. If I get some time I'll run a diff on the two backups and see if I can find it.

---

### Post by uncle hammy on 2010-12-06
There used to be a setting to set the way transparency was displayed.  However, for the life of me, I can't seem to find it now, and I remember seeing just a while ago.

---

### Post by Chunk of Earth on 2010-12-13
ok, I finally got a round tuit.
In MythWeb you can check the MythTV database settings for each host. Make sure there are no old themes in the field named "Theme." My upgraded installation had an entry for the localhost with a Theme of [COLOR=Magenta]Mythbuntu-8.04[/COLOR] but the fresh install default Theme setting was [COLOR=Magenta]Mythbuntu[/COLOR]. (For the theme you're using it would probably say [COLOR=Magenta]MythCenter[/COLOR])
In the settings for my host under its hostname, there was a field named "Style" that was set to [COLOR=Magenta]Platinum[/COLOR] on my upgraded installation but was blank on my fresh installation.
"ThemeFontSizeType" was set to [COLOR=Magenta]small[/COLOR] on my upgrade and [COLOR=Magenta]default[/COLOR] on the fresh install.
"MenuTheme" was set to [COLOR=Magenta]defaultmenu[/COLOR] on my upgrade and [COLOR=Magenta]default[/COLOR] on the fresh install.

There were actually hundreds of differences between the two databases but these were the ones that looked most likely to be related to the OSD menu and they were all located in the settings table which can be altered using MythWeb.

---

