---
title: "9.04: Password for all recordings except one channel?"
date: 2009-11-25
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Morgennebel on 2009-11-25
Hi there,


my kids start to understand the remote control - so I need to password protect recordings in Mythbuntu 9.04 except for one kid specific channel.

Any solution ideas (which still have a nice WAF - Woman Acceptance Factor)?

Thanks, -MN

---

### Post by t3chn0b0y on 2009-11-25
> **Morgennebel said:**
> Hi there,


my kids start to understand the remote control - so I need to password protect recordings in Mythbuntu 9.04 except for one kid specific channel.

Any solution ideas (which still have a nice WAF - Woman Acceptance Factor)?

Thanks, -MN



Did you set up the ratings for shows? I know it's not exactly what
you where asking... but it could be setup for additional security.
I also moved a few of the items in the menu into the setup area
so no one could delete/edit any videos in MythVideo.. I am also
curious as to what others are doing to protect specific channels? :popcorn:

---

### Post by gwagchunks on 2009-12-12
Hi

I'm also looking for a way to stop the kids from looking at some tv shows that I've recorded that would not be suitable for them to watch. Is there any method that someone could give me a few pointers with? I've setup parental type control for the "videos" section by using ratings, but not sure on how to set this up with recorded tv.

Thanks.

---

### Post by gwagchunks on 2009-12-23
I've been doing a bit of reading and storage groups may be the way to set this up. I've not had a chance to play yet though as amazingly there has been quite of lot of stuff to record and I have not had any spare time to shut the backend down yet!

---

