---
title: "10.10 reinstall, XBMC and MythFrontend issues"
date: 2011-08-16
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Boppy3125 on 2011-08-16
I pulled out an older machine that had been working fine last year.  I reinstalled with Mythbuntu 10.10 (Since that is what my backend and other frontend have) but I am having some issues.  I know this all can work since I have this machine working before.

+  Mythbuntu 10.10 i386
+  Nvidia 8300 card w/ DVI to HDMI TV (1080p)
+  Mythbuntu install-- selected proprietary video driver (not sure version of Nvidia driver but will check later tonight)
+  Installed updates 
+  motherboard based spdif coax to receiver
+  XBMC installed by following wiki at xbmc.org and adding the team-xbmc ppa.  So whatever is the "current" version was installed.


Myth frontend displays the recording fine but no sound.  I tried all the different options in the front-end general setup, and none seemed to work.

XBMC seems to get sound out through to receiver, as menus make sounds.  So I think I made the proper change in alsamixer.  XBMC big issue is that the videos look like a slideshow, I assume the sound isn't working there because of the playback issues.  It looks like VDPAU in enabled in the XBMC setup, but it really feels I missed something here.

I really prefer XBMC, it seems to work better for usability, but right now I just need something working.  I am leaving Friday for a week and my mother in law will need to get to movies to entertain the kido.  Any thoughts to help me track down either issue quickly tonight?

:confused:

---

### Post by nickrout on 2011-08-16
turn on logging in xbmc

go to the xbmc forums with the results

---

