---
title: "12.04 LTS to 14.04.1 - Unsure of how best to proceed"
date: 2014-10-11
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by griggs2 on 2014-10-11
I already know someone is going to be sniggering as they read this - so be it - I just want to proceed with utmost of caution...

I keep getting prompted on my backend and frontend (two separate machines) to upgrade to 14.04.1... Before I launch into this, I wanted to make sure everything would be fine or if there was an accepted practice or steps to do before, during, and after a big LTS upgrade like this... I've hunted around on [http://www.mythbuntu.org](http://www.mythbuntu.org) trying to find the applicable info, but failed. There is some talk in the news about the upgrades, but no real guide on the steps to be completed and in what order... I don't need literal hand holding here thru the process, but I also want to minimize downtime of my MythTV system since it is virtually always recording something.

Does anyone have a general guide put together on what steps and their best order to complete in order to guarantee a successful upgrade? Care to share?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by ecophobia on 2014-10-11
LTS means 5 years support for your 12.04 until 2017. If you are happy with how your system(s) works, DON'T upgrade. My personal 20 years experience with Linux tells me, never upgrade. Always do a fresh install on a test machine, transfer files, software and settings when the test period is over and everything is working as expected.

---

### Post by topcat5 on 2014-10-12
> **griggs2 said:**
> ......
Does anyone have a general guide put together on what steps and their best order to complete in order to guarantee a successful upgrade? Care to share?

Thanks in advance!

For me this worked well.  In fact it went easier than I thought it would.  It included changing versions from 0.26 to 0.27.   

[LIST]
[*]Stop backend process.   i.e.  "initctl stop mythtv-backend"
[*]Backup mythtv database using the CLI commands shown on mythbuntu.org.   I placed these on another drive in the system. 
[*]Save the /home/mythtv, /home/"user you log on with".  I used tar for this process and restored the directories on another disk. 
[*]Save any other changes that you made to the system in /etc.  Obviously this might take some work if you have done it over a long period of time. 
[*]From there I used the Ubuntu recommendation to update from 12 to 14 lts.  Basically this was a new install of mythbuntu from scratch over the old system.   This is made much easier if your OS and videos are stored on separate disks/partitions.
[*]Once the new system is running, follow the directions to restore the database and recreate your /home directories.   The only real gotcha for me was the channel Icons.  They now have to be stored in /home/mythtv/.mythtv/channels   I fixed that by creating a symbolic link from my old location.  
[*]This process took about an hour or so.  
[/LIST]

On one of my frontends, I simply did a new install of mythbuntu, AFTER I had the new BE running.    There really wasn't anything on it that I needed to save.  On my other BE, I left it at 12.04 but I upgraded to 0.27 using the Mythbuntu control center.   I didn't upgrade the OS because I have made a number of changes the machine that outside of Mythtv that I'm not ready to upgrade yet.   

My suggestion is if you have a complex system and/or don't have your present OS stored on a different drive than your videos, then it's time to go an invest in a new small disk/SSD for that.

---

