---
title: "How to add the Pace DC50X digital adapter onto Mythtv"
date: 2014-06-08
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by donb21 on 2014-06-08
This is a procedure to add the Pace DC50X digital adapter onto mythtv.  My system had an existing
HdPvr and PVR-150 capture hardware.  The HdPvr was blasting to a Pace Dct-2000 and the PVR-150 had 
a direct analog feed from the cable company.  The cable company discontinued the analog feed and 
offered free digital to analog adapters (PaceDc50x).  This setup now has two blasters, operating from
a single MCE USB box (one box with two blaster dongles).

1. Create a folder for the MotorolaDta100 and PaceDc50x configurations.  One set of codes apply to both.

$ mkdir /usr/share/lirc/extras/transmitters/pace/
$ cd /usr/share/lirc/extras/transmitters/pace/

2. Copy/paste the codes into this file: (you have to create the file)

/usr/share/lirc/extras/transmitters/pace/MotorolaDta100PaceDc50x.conf

-Here are the codes, copied from [http://www.mythtv.org/pipermail/mythtv-users/2010-January/278281.html](http://www.mythtv.org/pipermail/mythtv-users/2010-January/278281.html)

***Start copy/paste from here*** (do not include this line)
# Please make this file available to others
#
# this config file was automatically generated
# using lirc-0.8.6-CVS(default) on Mon Jan 11 21:34:36 2010
#
# contributed by Kirk Bocek
#
# brand: Comcast Branded Motorola DTA100 and Pace DC50X
# model no. of remote control: Unknown, Comcast Label
# devices being controlled by this remote: Motorola DTA100 & Pace DC50X
#
# These are a couple of the cheap digital converters being provided by
# Comcast as part of their analog shutdown. DTA100 information here: (broken link removed)
# 
# This remote also has power and volume buttons. You can program these
# to control your TV. But these DTAs *do* have internal volume and mute
# controls. The power button, however, is only for your TV and has no
# effect on the DTA.
#
# Because this remote use the XMP protocol, this config requires
# lirc 0.8.6 or later.
#
# Generated by starting with the generic XMP protocol configuration:
# [http://lirc.sourceforge.net/remotes/generic/XMP](http://lirc.sourceforge.net/remotes/generic/XMP)
# and then using irrecord to add the keys.
#
# V.2 - Added Volume Up and Volume Down
# V.3 - Confirmed operation with Pace DC50X. Changed strings to
#       conform with standard strings used in lirc 0.8.6.
#

begin remote

   name MotorolaDTA100-PaceDC50X
   bits           24
   flags XMP
   eps            20
   aeps          300

   one             0   137
   zero          250   710
   ptrail        250
   pre_data_bits   32
   pre_data       0x170F443E
   post_data_bits  8
   post_data      0x0
   pre           250 12921
   gap          81698
   toggle_bit_mask 0x0

       begin codes
           KEY_1                       0x1E0001
           KEY_2                       0x1D0002
           KEY_3                       0x1C0003
           KEY_4                       0x1B0004
           KEY_5                       0x1A0005
           KEY_6                       0x190006
           KEY_7                       0x180007
           KEY_8                       0x170008
           KEY_9                       0x160009
           KEY_0                       0x1F0000
           KEY_CHANNELDOWN             0x11000E
           KEY_CHANNELUP               0x12000D
           KEY_MUTE                    0x13000C
           KEY_VOLUMEDOWN              0x14000B
           KEY_VOLUMEUP                0x15000A
           KEY_LANGUAGE                0x150082
           KEY_INFO                    0x170026
           KEY_ENTER                   0x180025
           KEY_LAST                    0x190051
       end codes

end remote
***End of copy/paste*** (do not include this line)

3. Add the MotorolaDTA100-PaceDC50X remote configuration by adding this to the end of /etc/lirc.conf.

#Configuration for the Microsoft Windows Media Center V2 (usb) : Pace Dc50x Cable box transmitter:
include "/usr/share/lirc/extras/transmitters/pace/MotorolaDta100PaceDc50x.conf"

4. Note about /etc/lirc/hardware.conf and /etc/lirc/lirc.conf.  It appears that both files have references to
set-top-boxes.  I added my second stb (the PaceDc50x) to /etc/lirc/lirc.conf and left /etc/lirc/hardware.conf as-is.

5. Copy the channel changing script from the wiki and save it to:

/home/mythtv/LircChannelChanger

-The script is here: [http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/LircChannelChanger](http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/LircChannelChanger)

6. Copy the LircChannelChanger-DTA configuration from the wiki and save it to:

/home/mythtv/LircChannelChanger-DTA

-The script is here (at the bottom of the page): [http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/LircChannelChanger](http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/LircChannelChanger)

7.  Test the script.  Here's an example command with debugging enabled and sending channel 5.

$ cd /home/mythtv
$ sudo /home/mythtv/LircChannelChanger --debug --cf=/home/mythtv/LircChannelChanger-DTA --xmitter 1 5

-Note: If you have multiple capture boards with blaster hardware, your transmitter may not be "1".  If
the lirc system seems to hang when you run this (needing reboot to get it back), try another transmitter
(--xmitter 2 or 3 or whatever; mine used 3).

-Note: When running this command, you should see the blaster dongle blink.  When I ran it the first time, I
had the wrong transmitter number, which corrupted lirc.  I had to reboot the box to restore lirc; I haven't
found a reliable way to restart lirc.

7. Add the channel changing script to the mythtv backend setup.

-Access Mythtv backend setup > select "Input Connections" > select the desired capture board
(mine is tuner 1 of the PVR-150 board).

-Add this line to "External channel change command":
/home/mythtv/LircChannelChanger --cf=/home/mythtv/LircChannelChanger-DTA --xmitter 1

-Set "Preset tuner to channel" to 3

-Set "Starting Channel" to 3

8. Exit the Mythtv backend setup program.

9. Access MythTv frontend and try live tv.

---

