---
title: "11.10 HD Channels video scrambled"
date: 2011-10-22
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by johncar on 2011-10-22
Newbie here with a dumb question.  I have installed 11.10 Mythtv  and everything works fine except when I try to watch over the air HD channels the video is scrambled with green and purple lines through the video the non HD channels the video is fine and clear.  I am using  the new homerun over the air 2 tuner box.  Is there a setting that i missed?  Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by AlecJ on 2011-10-23
> **johncar said:**
> Newbie here with a dumb question.  I have installed 11.10 Mythtv  and everything works fine except when I try to watch over the air HD channels the video is scrambled with green and purple lines through the video the non HD channels the video is fine and clear.  I am using  the new homerun over the air 2 tuner box.  Is there a setting that i missed?  Thanks for your help.

You don't give much info, but if your homerun card is only dvb-s then it will not "see" DVB-s2 channels.

---

### Post by rlowery on 2011-10-24
I had this issue and found my HD profile was using libmpeg, switching to ffmpeg solved it

---

### Post by highlanderb on 2011-11-03
Thanks I had the purple vertical lines problem also when I installed mythbuntu 11.10 and your answer helped me.  but instead of editing the profile I changed the playback profile to High Quality (which uses ffmpeg).  Same solution different path.
On the mythtv frontend chose
Utilities/Setup > Setup > TV Settings > Playback
The 3rd screen allows you to change the current video playback profile.  It was default I changed it to High Quality.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by nickrout on 2011-11-04
> **rlowery said:**
> I had this issue and found my HD profile was using libmpeg, switching to ffmpeg solved it

libmpeg is about to be divorced from mythtv, so it's not a good idea to hang on to it anyway :)

---

### Post by RideMan on 2011-11-06
Had the exact same problem...pink vertical lines through HD playback, SD playback looked great regardless of whether it's source was analog or digital. Further investigation revealed that the recordings were fine, playing great in VLC.

For me, the solution was to set my video playback profile to "VDPAU Normal".  High quality caused my playback to stutter. But then, I am using an NVIDIA based video card.  In any case, check your playback settings.

--Dave Althoff, Jr.

---

### Post by gwar11d2 on 2011-11-09
> **RideMan said:**
> Had the exact same problem...pink vertical lines through HD playback, SD playback looked great regardless of whether it's source was analog or digital. Further investigation revealed that the recordings were fine, playing great in VLC.

For me, the solution was to set my video playback profile to "VDPAU Normal".  High quality caused my playback to stutter. But then, I am using an NVIDIA based video card.  In any case, check your playback settings.

--Dave Althoff, Jr.

Thank you so much for this!  My system was working great until I experienced the purple line syndrome when upgrading to 11.10.  Setting the video playback profile to VDPAU Normal worked for me...  I too have an nvidia card which of course I had issues with when upgrading as well.  Here and I thought I had a tuner driver issue again with my hauppauge 1600 card.  Thank goodness for v4l, mythbuntu, etc and no charges for DVR boxes through the cable company!

---

