---
title: "8.10 Diskless Server Installation Saga"
date: 2009-01-08
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by strikesagain on 2009-01-08
So,

Think of this as a kind of bug report.  First, some background.

I actually started with a LinuxMCE installation, and, well ..... things happened.  I am here now and I have some information for you.

First of all, the polish of mythbuntu and ubuntu in general is way ahead of the competition.  I have been a Linux user for a decade and have tried numerous distributions.  Each have failed me after traveling some distance with me.  Like a bunch of ex-girlfriends, each of whom was good while it lasted and then the relationship had to end because we could not proceed beyond a certain point.

A half a dozen machines and upgrades later, I have come to conclude that I need to have one back end from which I can boot many front ends in different rooms in my home, and for different users.  On top of that, when I realized that Mythbuntu provides LTSP integrated PXE boot, there was no end to my joy.  So, here I am baby.

Now, unlike many enthusiasts, I actually read the installation manual before downloading and burning the iso image.

[Bug 1]: The download page is confusing, especially when it says 'Desktop' and 'Alternate' version, while the instruction manual mentions 'Live CD' as being the best way to install.  One would have to '***-U-Me' that 'Desktop' version is the live CD.  Please address it on the web site.

Onwards and Upwards.  So, I got the alternate install, installed it and tried to run it.  I kept on getting repeated 'Cannot connect to the database'.  I saw postings in Ubuntu Forums with the keywords above, and there were various solutions, but not for the problem I had.

Being an experienced MySQL user, I got down and dirty and it seems that the installer does not create the database at all.  Even after running

sudo dpkg-reconfigure mythtv-common
sudo dpkg-reconfigure mythtv-backend

Believe me,I have tried.

[Bug #2]  After choosing the Diskless Server mode on mythBuntu-alternate distribution somehow does not create the back-end database - even though I picked 'primary back end' as one of the roles for the server.

Also, is there a manual script I can run that can create the database ?  Believe me, I ran the two commands above about half a dozen times in the given order each time.  No dice.

If you are one of the parties responsible for mythbuntu, in part (more likely) or in whole (less likely), please put that in your post so that I know I need to provide you with all the information you ask for - instead of abridging the large log files.  I will be more than happy to send you the data you wish to have via e-mail or private messages through this forum.

Ciao.

---

### Post by tbaca on 2009-01-09
> **strikesagain said:**
> So,


Also, is there a manual script I can run that can create the database ?  Believe me, I ran the two commands above about half a dozen times in the given order each time.  No dice.


Ciao.

I had the same problem.  I ran this to get mine to work:
[INDENT]sudo dpkg-reconfigure mythtv-database[/INDENT]

Tony

---

### Post by strikesagain on 2009-01-09
Thank You Tony.

I did however run that script repeatedly.

Now, I have been able to locate the cause of the problem to the following.

Ubuntu 8.10 is newer than 8.04 and probably contains newer version of MySQL.  Apparently, one of the postings on the internet suggests that you leave the 'root' administrator password for MySQL server blank.  I have also read that the new server requires you put user name and the server between single quotes.  So, I instead decided to start anew with Ubuntu 8.04 and manually install the pieces.  Hopefully, things will work better this time around.

---

### Post by tbaca on 2009-01-09
> **strikesagain said:**
> Thank You Tony.


Ubuntu 8.10 is newer than 8.04 and probably contains newer version of MySQL.  Apparently, one of the postings on the internet suggests that you leave the 'root' administrator password for MySQL server blank.  

Too bad it didn't work fo you.  I always set the root password :)

---

### Post by strikesagain on 2009-01-09
That's OK Tom.

OTOH, I still have to upgrade the kernel since 8.10 has the later kernel that recognizes my ATSC KWorld HDTV 120 card.  So, the tinkering is not over yet.  But, Little baby steps ..... right ?

On a side note, just knowing that someone reads my posts and responds to them makes me feel really good.  Kinda like a cosmic connection of sorts, so, thanks.

Many thanks to those of you who visited as well.

---

