---
title: "12.04LTS Mythbuntu:  GUI stopped working after nvidia card change - HELP"
date: 2013-10-24
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by neutron68 on 2013-10-24
This is a friend's pc with an install of 64-bit 12.04LTS from June 2012.  It's been working ok since install in 2012.
Asus A8N-VM CSM motherboard (built-in nvidia 6150 graphics chip, vintage 2006)
AMD x64 processor, 1GB RAM, 2GB SATA hard drive

After running for a year with little problem, this summer, random lockups with patterns of garbage on the screen started occurring.  
The symptoms pointed to a bad video display chip (nvidia 6150 onboard display chip) so I advised my friend to get an nvidia 8600GT PCI-E card for the machine.
After installing the PCI-E nvidia card, the machine booted with normal working video, but just before the GUI came up, the screen went to a tty1 text screen with a Mythbuntu login.
> Welcome to Ubuntu 12.04.3 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.2.0-38-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  [https://help.ubuntu.com/](https://help.ubuntu.com/)

10 packages can be updated.
8 updates are security updates.

In the working installation, I had originally loaded the proprietary nvidia drivers.
Is the change of nvidia display chip the problem here?
Or perhaps an update/upgrade poisoned the nvidia driver or Xorg setup? 

Here are some details of the sequence of events:
1.  random Mythbuntu lockups
2.  change from motherboard nvidia 6150 chip to nvidia 8600GT PCI-E card
3.  video came back but Mythbuntu wouldn't boot into GUI
4.  "no screens found" error noted in Xorg.0.log file
5.  changed CMOS coin battery and reset CMOS defaults
6.  apt-get update, apt-get upgrade on Oct.20
7.  edits to GRUB.cfg to try and make the GRUB boot menu show up for 10 seconds at boot
8.  a fully-populated GRUB menu is not displayed at every boot.  sometimes all you see is "Booting GRUB" and a numerical countdown - no menu choices
9.  ran Boot Repair Live CD and chose "Recommended Repair".  That worked and fixed GRUB, giving a text menu on every boot!
10.  booted into Ubuntu, with Linux 3.2.0.-38-generic (recovery mode), and scanned file systems with fsck - result was no problems found.
11.  when choosing a normal boot, the tty1 login screen still comes up (no GUI)

When I type "nvidia-settings -v" on his machine I get:
> nvidia-settings:  version 295.33  (buildd@allspice)  Fri Mar 30 13:37:33 UTC 2012
  The NVIDIA X Server Settings tool.

Of note, I've also got a Mythbuntu 12.04LTS system running.  My system is running ok with a nvidia 8600GT card.
I note that my Xorg.conf file is almost exactly the same as my friend's, and it's very sparse and stripped-down - no specifics of display chip, monitor, preferred resolutions like the Xorg.conf files of just 5 years ago used to be!

On my machine when I type "nvidia-settings -v" I get:
> nvidia-settings:  version 310.14  (buildd@komainu)  Tue Oct 16 22:20:47 UTC 2012
  The NVIDIA X Server Settings tool.

Please ask me for any missing details you think are important.

Help appreciated.
Eric

---

### Post by neutron68 on 2013-10-25
New development.  
The replacement video card isn't an nvidia 8600GT card as I thought.  
It is an 8600GTS card, which requires an addition power plug to power the GPU on the card.
My friend plugged in the additional power connector, and the GUI returned to Mythbuntu.  

Now the Mythtbuntu machine boots to a GUI desktop, BUT the mythtv GUI frontend isn't starting automatically.  
I'll open a new thread for that issue.

---

