---
title: "10.04 plugins don't work"
date: 2010-03-27
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by My Name on 2010-03-27
So, I am swapping out a load of hardware, getting rid of stuff and building a box for a friend. I figured while i was doing so I may aswell install 10.04. It seems to be working as planned, but non of the mythtv plugins are working.
when trying to setup the videos or music or anything esle for that matter, bar livetv, i get the same error. the error is failed to configure plugin ...
plugin not compatible with the installed libraries. please recompile the plugin after make distclean

any ideas what's going on?
It is a full ubuntu 10.04 install,with mythtv installed on top.

---

### Post by mr. 100prozent on 2010-03-27
Same here, new install of mythbuntu 10.04 (server and frontend) no plugins work.

---

### Post by nickrout on 2010-03-27
10.04 has not been released and the version of myth included with it is trunk and very beta. What were you expecting? Also the mythtv developers don't read this forum, so if you want to report bugs go to the mailing list or trak.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2010-03-28
Should hopefully be fixed with today's upload of the plugins.  Do all your updates and reboot.

If you still have problems, please file a bug by running this command:

```
ubuntu-bug mythplugins
```

---

### Post by My Name on 2010-03-28
Thanks, I thought maybe there was a quick fix that was why I posted n here.

We are all aware that it is still beta, that doesn't mean we can't ask to see if there is a quick hack to get it up and running.

---

