---
title: "10.10 install freezes at Configuring Hardware.."
date: 2010-11-01
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by kyphos on 2010-11-01
This is my very first attempt to install Mythbuntu.   

I downloaded the 10.10 installer distro and burned a CD. It booted fine, and the installation proceeded until it got to "Configuring hardware...".   There it stopped.  The little 'working' icon is spinning round and round, and has been for an hour now. The progress bar has not budged in that time. The CD activity light is not flashing. The window on the screen is titled "Getting Help", and indicates that 'The installation will finish soon, we hope that you enjoy using Mythbuntu'.  

The last records in the log display at the bottom of the Install window say: 

```
ubuntu CRON[16191]: (CRON) error (grandchild #16193 failed with exit status 1) 
ubuntu CRON[16191]: (CRON) info (No MTA installed, discarding output) 
```After an hour, I decided nothing more was going to happen, so I turned the box off, and turned to this forum for help. I haven't found any previous posts decribing similar problems.  

System details: Sempron 2600+ 1.7 GHz, 1GB of RAM, brand-new 1 TB drive. Internet connection (so it can download updates).

---

### Post by ivanovnegro on 2010-11-01
Hi and welcome!
So, Im not a specialist in hard technical stuff and dont know what that means exactly, I think some guys will come up here and help you better.
But maybe you could download the Mythbuntu CD again, maybe there is the problem, and burn it with the lowest speed, or to check the the md5-sum of the CD, maybe it is corrupted.

Regards

Btw: Pacience is important also while installing :).

---

### Post by kyphos on 2010-11-01
Thanks for suggestion. I checked the MD5 and it's fine. Besides, before attempting the installation, I played around the Live CD for a while. Everything seemed to work fine, which suggests that the CD is OK.

I agree that patience is important, but after an hour of waiting (with no sign of any progress), I concluded that lack of patience is not the issue here :-)

Best regards from Ottawa (snow)

---

### Post by ivanovnegro on 2010-11-01
Ok, you are right, sorry, you waited an hour, I forgot that.
So, everything seems to be ok with the CD, strange.
You tried it again, to install via CD?
Maybe if you try again it wont stop at hardware recognition.

---

### Post by kyphos on 2010-11-01
Oh yes- I tried a second time before I posted. The bug is perfectly repeatable - the installer stops progressing after the same two CRON errors.

---

### Post by ivanovnegro on 2010-11-01
Oh, thats really bad.
I hope someone else could you help now as I dont know what could be done at the moment, never experienced such an error.
I tried also to find something in the forums.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2010-11-01
The best thing you can do in this scenario is to run the installer in debug mode and file a bug.

To run in debug mode, this is the command:

> ubiquity -d

When the system hangs, open up another terminal window and run this to file the bug:

> ubuntu-bug ubiquity


Common things to cause these types of problems are reproducible inputs that the code didn't anticipate.  Did you maybe use some weird characters in the password or username?  Keep in mind filing the bug will include the user/pass, so use something like test/test (unless the bug ends up being related to those inputs, then we'll at least need to know what character is causing it)

---

### Post by kyphos on 2010-11-01
[QUOTE=superm1;10059558]The best thing you can do in this scenario is to run the installer in debug mode and file a bug.

To run in debug mode, this is the command:


When the system hangs, open up another terminal window and run this to file the bug:



@superm1,
Can you tell me how I go about running the installer in debug mode.  I activated the installer by clicking on the big Install Mythbuntu button on the screen that appeared after booting the CD. There was no terminal window nor text field in which I could enter "ubiquity -d".  (as you can tell, I'm new at this..)

I don't think I did anything weird during setup. The userid was 'myth'. Password was the same.  I either accepted all the defaults or answered the questions with obvious answers: time zone, etc. No funky characters.

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by kyphos on 2010-11-02
@superm1,
After some googling around, I figured out how to launch the ubiquitous  installer in debug mode. The 10.10 installation hung in the same place  as before. As per your instructions, I was able to submit a bug report.

I abandoned my efforts to install 10.10 for now, and downloaded the 10.4  Mythbuntu Live CD.  Its installer ran to completion without problems.  So I can now work on getting MythTV configured and working while waiting  for the dust to settle on 10.10.  Thanks for your pointers on how to submit a bug.

---

### Post by don-bothell on 2010-11-06
> **kyphos said:**
> @superm1,
After some googling around, I figured out how to launch the ubiquitous  installer in debug mode. The 10.10 installation hung in the same place  as before. As per your instructions, I was able to submit a bug report.

I abandoned my efforts to install 10.10 for now, and downloaded the 10.4  Mythbuntu Live CD.  Its installer ran to completion without problems.  So I can now work on getting MythTV configured and working while waiting  for the dust to settle on 10.10.  Thanks for your pointers on how to submit a bug.

My attempts with 10,04  and 10.10 also hang at "configuring hardware"

System: AMD Athlon 64  1800MHz    ASUS KBN-E  board
One Gig memory,  Two  250 GB SATA HD
AMIBIOS   8.00.09

Burned 5 CD's from web from different sources, all checked OK
but failed to come alive on reboot.  Sometimes an error was reported
but usually no diagnostic - just a stall.

Then after giving up on downloading, I ordered a disc thru the mail.
Was sent 10.10 Desktop Edition which goes mostly thru the install
but hangs at "configuring hardware".  This occurred repeatedly
regardless of which hard drive I tried to load it on.

Put in my old Ubuntu 7.10 install disc and everything works.

I would like to update Ubuntu but cannot.

---

### Post by kyphos on 2010-11-06
@don-bothell,
FYI - I opened a bug on this problem I encountered with the 10.10 install. It's at:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/670003](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/670003)

However, I did not encounter the same roadblock with the Mythbuntu 10.04 installer.

---

### Post by don-bothell on 2010-12-16
I now have had success installing 10.04.1  32 bit version on my  Athlon amd64.

I followed the install via Terminal use of the command found from Properties
of the Install icon from the Try-it mode, as reported by an earlier user.:p:KS

---

### Post by -=hazard=- on 2011-03-21
My simple solution to this problem was by making a clean install of Ubuntu 10.04.2 and then making a Distribution Upgrade to 10.10 from Update Manager. All went nice and smooth.

---

### Post by cowboy3398 on 2011-04-10
I too had the hang at 'configuring hardware'  and interestingly enough, I'm also running an AMD processor.
I'll try installing the previous version and upgrading as was suggested by a previous "victim" ):P

---

