---
title: "0.24 on mythbuntu.org"
date: 2010-11-11
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by mdaitc on 2010-11-11
Hi,

just wondering if anyone know when the released 0.24 would be available on [http://us.autobuilds.mythbuntu.org/mythbuntu/0.24/ubuntu](http://us.autobuilds.mythbuntu.org/mythbuntu/0.24/ubuntu)

thanks!

---

### Post by superm1 on 2010-11-11
> **mdaitc said:**
> Hi,

just wondering if anyone know when the released 0.24 would be available on [http://us.autobuilds.mythbuntu.org/mythbuntu/0.24/ubuntu](http://us.autobuilds.mythbuntu.org/mythbuntu/0.24/ubuntu)

thanks!

Some of the autobuilds mirrors appear to not be mirroring.  If you're not seeing a current build, open MCC and switch to the "PPA" location.

---

### Post by flecki on 2010-11-12
I activated 0.24 and PPA and got a partial upgrade warning for half of the mythtv plugins, etc.

Being a linux noob i don´t dare to upgrade - if anyone is successfull i´d love to know how you did it.

I run mythbuntu 10.10 with 23.1 and PPA enabled.

---

### Post by joho500 on 2010-11-12
I get the same error on mythbuntu 10.04 with ppa enabled.

Joost

---

### Post by superm1 on 2010-11-12
> **joho500 said:**
> I get the same error on mythbuntu 10.04 with ppa enabled.

Joost

You might need to apt-get dist-upgrade.  Some packages will be removed on upgrade.

---

### Post by youknowjoe on 2010-11-12
apt-get dist-upgrade worked for me with 10.10 after I switched to PPA.  Although, I've been following .24 trunk for awhile.  But, it seems there's a broken package dependency with one of the -dbg packages, it depends on an older trunk version.  I don't recall off the top of my head which pkg.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2010-11-12
> **youknowjoe said:**
> apt-get dist-upgrade worked for me with 10.10 after I switched to PPA.  Although, I've been following .24 trunk for awhile.  But, it seems there's a broken package dependency with one of the -dbg packages, it depends on an older trunk version.  I don't recall off the top of my head which pkg.

I'm not sure why that's happening  but i noticed it too- 

Just remove both -dbg packages (mythplugins-dbg) and (mythtv-dbg) and it should finish.  You can reinstall mythtv-dbg after.

---

### Post by joho500 on 2010-11-13
> **superm1 said:**
> You might need to apt-get dist-upgrade.  Some packages will be removed on upgrade.

Thanks. This worked. :)

Cheers,
Joost

---

