---
title: "9.04 can't get frontend to go full screen"
date: 2009-05-04
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Lido on 2009-05-04
On 7.10 and 8.10, my front end took up the full screen automatically, now I just upgraded and the front end is still showing the top menu bar and the bottom application selector bar etc. I've tried checking and unchecking the "run in a window" box in setup but that doesn't change anything. Anyone else have this problem or know how to fix it? Thanks.

---

### Post by Neon Dusk on 2009-05-04
Do you have the Compiz visual effects switched on?

I can't double check at the moment but think the option is in 'Administration->Preferences->Appearance->Visual Effects

---

### Post by Lido on 2009-05-04
Yes, I love the compiz effects! Turning them off didn't help anyway. Actually, I was using compiz in 8.10 and MythTV  went full screen no problem.

---

### Post by SiHa on 2009-05-05
I've found my BE/FE does this sometimes, god knows why. It's not a permanent fix, but I've found that playing a video (**not a recording**) and then exiting, refreshes the screen and the bars disappear.

---

### Post by Lido on 2009-05-05
I've watched a couple of video files, but the bars were still there. Mplayer will go full screen if I use that program, but Myth is the main reason I've got this machine so I really want to get that working. Did anyone else use the upgrade tool to go from Ubuntu 8.10 to 9.04 with MythTV installed and have full screen work?

---

### Post by frugal on 2009-05-05
I had a similar problem when I switched the resolution on my box from 1360x768 to 1080p (finally got a working modeline for that), I was stuck with the menu at the top still showing up. I was able to fix this by adjusting the GUI size to 0 height and 0 width (tells it to use full-screen), I believe this is under Setup -> Appearance but I'd have to double check. Setting the height and width to my resolution didn't work but this did the trick.

---

### Post by Lido on 2009-05-08
Thanks. Actually my GUI was already set that way. I fixed the issue by going to the appearance control panel in Gnome and turning off all visual effects. Then I quit the frontend and started it up again. It was then full screen. Next I went back into the appearance control panel and turned visual effects back on and the frontend still uses the full screen.

---

### Post by dozch on 2009-05-13
This should work: the CompizConfig Settings Manager has a "Workarounds" plugin (under Utility). Enable this plugin and in its settings tick "Legacy Fullscreen Support".

---

### Post by d_morgan on 2009-06-20
I also had this problem after upgrading from ubuntu 8.10 to 9.04.  Turning off visual affects fixes the problem so i can go full screen but i have to leave the visual affects off.  If i ever turn them on again i see the desktop menu bar while mythtv is running.

i'm running a shuttle sg33g5 with hdmi out to my tv.  i'll give the compizconfig settings workaroudn a try next.

---

### Post by Mattaus on 2009-06-21
I can't seem to get the Default Front end to go fill screen either - except I have no visual effects at all. 

Actually, it is full screen, but for some reason the bottom bar and top bar of the Ubuntu desktop display over the top of the Front end, instead of behind. So when there are buttons at the bottom of the screen I can just see the top of them.

I've tried everything suggested in this thread but with no luck so far....

---

