---
title: "0.26 MythWeb video 'Scan Collection' button missing."
date: 2012-12-07
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by notchicken on 2012-12-07
Ok so I've just upgraded mythbuntu from 0.25 to 0.26.
I have uploaded some new videos but in mythweb video page the 'Scan Collection' button is missing???

I know i can do a rescan using Terminal and and in the frontend app but thats not ideal for me because:

1.  Thats not how i'd like to scan for video changes without screwing up the directory structure and it finding all sorts of stuff i don't want showing up on the frontend.
and 
2.  I keep my videos on a separate drive so to get the videos to download through mythweb for web browser playback I manualy delete the symlink to the videos storage location then hit the 'scan collection' button in mythweb and it magically creates a new symlink to the new videos storage location.  when ive tried to create the symlink in the past it never works so the videos wont be able to be downloaded throught he mythweb page for playback.

sorry, I'm rubbish at explaining stuff.
my question is:
How can i get the 'Scan Collection' button / functionality  back?  (without going back to 0.25 of course)

---

### Post by notchicken on 2012-12-11
Anyone?

---

### Post by nickrout on 2012-12-11
I don't seem to have such a button on 0.25, and can't recall seeing one in any version of mythtv.

I don't understand your problem with the frontend or the commandline triggering a scan anyway.

---

### Post by notchicken on 2012-12-14
The first version I used was 0.24 and it also had a 'scan collection' button.

It's odd that they would take that feature away. :-k

I'm more of a Mac person, so I want everything to be easy, e.g. click smiley face (finder) drag and drop my movies onto the shared videos folder then press the 'scan collection' button, simple, can't do that now.  I have to log in with ssh then go to the wiki site and look for the rescan command..... ugh.....and oh look the links to the movie files in mythweb are broken, bah :cry:

---

### Post by nickrout on 2012-12-15
If it is that important to you, post to the mailing list and some dev may be able to explain where and why it went away.

---

