---
title: "[8.04] Continuing Mythweb/DB denied problem"
date: 2008-06-05
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by NathanKell on 2008-06-05
Howdy.
First, thanks to the Mythbuntu folks for such fine work!

Second, the problem. I too have the Database Access Denied problem; however, I've followed the instructions and edited /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/mythweb.conf, but still get the same Database Access Denied message.

Notes:
*I went ahead and changed the db password to the usual mythtv rather than the random string (in mysql.txt, in the FE, in mw.conf). Mythfrontend (and logging into mysql from the console) works fine.
*running dpkg-reconfigure mythweb or using MCC does not reset mythweb.conf to a bad random password.
*Removed and (re)installed mythweb.
*Tried the trick of setting the mythtv user to have no password via phpMyAdmin. No joy.
*I even tried hardcoding the password in /var/www/mythweb/includes/database.php but that gave the error message "Table 'mythconverg.mythweb_sessions' doesn't exist."

( And yes, I've been spamming /etc/init.d/apache2 restart after even breathing on a file. :] )

I'm wondering, due to mythweb.conf persisting after dpkg-rec/MCC, if there's some other version of it sitting around elsewhere being used instead.

Also, other people have mentioned editing a .htaccess or mythweb-htaccess file; I do not seem to have either. There does seem to be a symlink that points to a non-existent .htaccess file though.

Hope you folks can shed some light...

---

### Post by laga on 2008-06-06
Interesting issue.. where exactly did you change the password in mythweb.conf?

---

### Post by NathanKell on 2008-06-06
There's only one setenv db_password in my mythweb.conf, under <Files mythweb.*>

---

### Post by NathanKell on 2008-06-06
Evidently the mythconverg.mythweb_sessions error was not a fluke.

Good news: finally buckled down and did grep -R db_password. Found this file:  /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/mythweb.conf.save
which is what, it appears, apache was -actually- using as the conf file. Changed the password there, and...

Bad news: got the above-mentioned error.

However, was a little braver this time: searched the mythtv wiki for the table structure ( [http://mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/Mythweb_sessions_table](http://mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/Mythweb_sessions_table) ), and took the chance of (re)creating the table. And now, success at midnight! (literally, in fact, +/-40min)

I mean, I'm happy, but still curious--anybody got an idea why the .save file was created and used, or why the mythweb_sessions table was not?

---

