---
title: "Mythbuntu Acer Revo Wrong Resolution Xorg HDMI LCD TV"
date: 2010-02-01
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by windswept321 on 2010-02-01
I have an Acer Revo 3600 connected via HDMI to a 32" Grundig GU32BLKS lcd tv.

The resolutions offered by the nvidia-settings program are wrong for the tv and any changes I make to xorg.conf are ignored.

From what I can tell the EDID value for the screen is incorrect and this may be causing the problem. (It's seen as a Beko VJAZ1 tv) The resolution is definitely wrong as it cuts off quite a bit of the picture.

The resolution the tv is at now is 1280X720 when, from what I can make out, it should be 1366x760 or 1360x760

I have managed to come up with this using gtf 1366 768 60:

Modeline "1368x768_60.00"  85.86  1368 1440 1584 1800  768 769 772 795  -HSync +Vsync

I have come across the option   "UseEDID"  "FALSE" field but I'm not sure how to use it with the rest of the xorg.conf file or whether or not it would help.

Does anyone have any ideas?

Thanks for reading



The generated, unchanged xorg.conf:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Fri Aug 14 18:33:37 PDT 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by jquintana on 2010-02-01
Are you launching the nvidia-settings from applications -> system -> nvidia settings? If so, try sudo nvidia-settings from a console and then save your configuration.

Hope that helps, if not I will keep my eye on this thread as I have had similar problems in the past.

---

### Post by windswept321 on 2010-02-01
Thanks for the very quick reply!

I've tried it with sudo but it doesn't give the right resolution as an option in the drop down box, the closest it has is 1280x720 which cuts off most of the edges

---

### Post by jquintana on 2010-02-01
I'm not sure if I can be of any more assistance. I am using an Atom 330/ION combo and am able to get 1360x768 when connected to my 19" Dynex LCD. However, when I connect to my 50" Philips Plasma I am not able to get the correct resolution.

If I find anything of any value, I will post here for you to try as well.

Good luck!

---

### Post by jquintana on 2010-02-01
You may want to watch this thread just in case someone posts something useful for your case as well.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8761517#post8761517](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8761517#post8761517)

---

### Post by nickrout on 2010-02-01
1366x768 is a really weird resolution forced on us by cheapskate TV manufacturers. Its dealt with at length here [http://hd1080i.blogspot.com/2006/12/1080i-on-1366x768-resolution-problems.html](http://hd1080i.blogspot.com/2006/12/1080i-on-1366x768-resolution-problems.html)

---

### Post by windswept321 on 2010-02-07
Thanks for the replies.

I've managed to change the settings in XBMC (tv settings?) to make the menus etc fit the screen but similar settings in Mythbuntu make everything fit inside the top left quarter of the screen!

I don't find the parts lost in Mythbuntu to be too much trouble though as it is still usable (unlike XBMC before changing the settings) and it seems to resize correctly when playing video.

---

### Post by nickrout on 2010-02-07
I think what you are saying is that you are getting not only the wrong X resolution, but also you are getting a lot of overscan.

To get rid of the overscan the first option is to see if your TV has an exact pixel mapping option in the menus. It might be called something else. See this site for general info:

[http://pixelmapping.wikispaces.com/](http://pixelmapping.wikispaces.com/)

Second option is to use the nvidia overscan compensation settings. You need the nvidia drivers >= 190 and nvidia-settings >=190. There is then a slider to set overscan in the nvidia settings gui.

Final and least desirable option is to adjust the gui size in mythtv setup so that the gui fits on the screen. The video will still be overscanned, but the gui will be readable.

The USEEDID option is documented in the nvidia readme.

> The following driver options are supported by the NVIDIA X driver. They may be specified either in the Screen or Device sections of the X config file.
...
Option "UseEDID" "boolean"

    By default, the NVIDIA X driver makes use of a display device's EDID, when available, during construction of its mode pool. The EDID is used as a source for possible modes, for valid frequency ranges, and for collecting data on the physical dimensions of the display device for computing the DPI (see Appendix E). However, if you wish to disable the driver's use of the EDID, you can set this option to False:
    
        Option "UseEDID" "FALSE"
    
    Note that, rather than globally disable all uses of the EDID, you can individually disable each particular use of the EDID; e.g.,
    
        Option "UseEDIDFreqs" "FALSE"
        Option "UseEDIDDpi" "FALSE"
        Option "ModeValidation" "NoEdidModes"
    
    Default: True (use EDID).



---

### Post by movieman on 2010-02-08
I used to work for a company building HD media players, and not only would TVs not give us sensible EDID data, but if we fed them a perfectly standard HD video signal they'd perform all kinds of processing and scaling on it before displaying it on the screen: they'd literally take our pristine digital 1280x720 or 1920x1080 signal that we'd generated from the original source with loving care and then scale it up by 5-10% and perform who knows what kind of edge enhancement, etc before displaying it on a 1280x720 or 1920x1080 screen.

The concept of simply taking the digital signal they were given and displaying it on the screen seemed totally alien to them; even the broadcaster I knew hated the fact that the TV companies did this to make their TV shows look bad and were trying to stop them, but the manufacturers had spent so many years performing random scaling on input video to ensure that any garbage around the edge of the frame wasn't visible that they seemed determined to continue in the HD age.

Maybe by the time we've all switched to 4k displays the message might get through to them...

Edit: And, oh yeah, the 1366x768 EDID mode doesn't work on our TV either.

---

