---
title: "9.10b+updates PVR 150 No Audio"
date: 2009-10-20
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by carltondhouston on 2009-10-20
Fresh install mythbuntu 9.10b + all updates/upgrades running myth 0.22.0+fixes22517 at the moment.

PVR-150 capture card which worked fine in 8.04LTS mythbuntu, btw.

No audio.  I've checked as much as I can but am stumped.

I cat /dev/video0 > test.mpg.  mplayer then says there is audio and opens alsa, but there is no sound.  mythfrontend live tv shows the picture like mplayer but there is no sound.  Bear in mind all cable connections were left alone and are the same as before I installed 9.10b.  If I pull the audio cable out of the pvr-150 line in audio jack and connect it instead to an earphone, there is audio.  So it's making it to the line in jack on my PVR-150, but I am not getting audio in the stream on disk.

What is the key to the universe?

With Humble Thanks,
Carlton

---

### Post by carltondhouston on 2009-10-20
> **carltondhouston said:**
> Fresh install mythbuntu 9.10b + all updates/upgrades running myth 0.22.0+fixes22517 at the moment.

PVR-150 capture card which worked fine in 8.04LTS mythbuntu, btw.

No audio.  I've checked as much as I can but am stumped.

...snip...

Now that I posted this question, I am finding other places where it is being discussed.  I am much closer.  First, I installed the ivtv-utils package to get v4l2-ctl.  Following along this page: [http://ivtvdriver.org/index.php/V4l2-ctl](http://ivtvdriver.org/index.php/V4l2-ctl) I found that the "mute" control was set to 1.  I set it to 0.

Now when I cat /dev/video0 > test.mpg, it has sound!  AND if I watch TV on my secondary frontend, it has audio (and looks great, btw).  Now I think it's a mixer issue on my new machine.

Bummer that the v4l2-ctl part isn't installed by default.  It only takes up about 40 MB of disk space with all it's dependencies..

Anyway, maybe next time I go through this I'll find this thread and not ask stupid questions...

Carlton

---

