---
title: "12.04.2 Install Disc Fails After Entering Name &amp; Password"
date: 2013-06-23
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by HDTimeshifter on 2013-06-23
My Mythbuntu 12.04.2 64-bit DVD fails on install on the screen right after I enter my computer name and password. I tried burning another disc and it fails at the same exact point. Is my ISO bad? Is there a recommended disc burning program that will verify the burn? I think I used KB3 the first time, then Brasero the second time. It seems like Ubuntu and Mythbuntu discs often fail - it would be much better if there was an easy way to verify the download and burn right away rather than finding out in the middle of a long install.

---

### Post by DeathByDenim on 2013-06-23
There is. You can check the MD5 checksum for your download. They're under Downloads -> Download ISO on the Mythbuntu site, but to save you the trouble, here they are:
```
1065b482382203d367cf7ce1c69b7c51 *mythbuntu-12.04.2-desktop-amd64.iso
badd04532b0102b46c03da6aae6da7e2 *mythbuntu-12.04.2-desktop-i386.iso
```
You can check your download by running the following command in a terminal:
```
md5sum mythbuntu-12.04.2-desktop-amd64.iso
```

Actually, I think K3B has this built-in. Just before you press the Burn-button, I think it will show you the MD5 checksum, but I'm not sure about that. Anyway, the above will work in verifying the ISO you downloaded.

---

### Post by HDTimeshifter on 2013-06-23
Thanks, I noticed the Download MD5SUMS option, but a search on the Mythbuntu site turned up no instructions on how to verify the checksum. I found instructions on the Ubuntu forums and re-downloaded the ISO, verified the checksum, re-burned a DVD and verified its checksum as well. The current install has progressed past the last crashing point. I just wish the download process would automatically verify checksum as well as having it integrated into the burner software. I'll have to look around KB3 and Brasero next time I burn a software image. If checksum verification were integrated into the download process and disc burn software, it would be a lot easier to use (cough, like Windoze) and would have saved me several hours of multiple re-installs and re-burning discs and re-downloading the ISO after figuring out I had a bad ISO to begin with!

---

### Post by newlinux on 2013-06-24
I'm pretty sure k3b will show you the md5 checksum... been a while since I used it. Just FYI.

---

