---
title: "9.10 on 64bit ... 2 installs on myth server to get it right"
date: 2009-11-24
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by newbie02 on 2009-11-24
All,
Here is my quick recap on my install headaches
Server specs
[HTML]
- AMD Athlon 64 X2 4600+ Windsor 2.4GHz Socket AM2 Processor Model 
- DFI INFINITY NF ULTRAII-M2 AM2 NVIDIA nForce4 Ultra ATX AMD Motherboard 
- 2TB Harddrive
- 2 sticks of memory CORSAIR ValueSelect 1GB 240-Pin DDR2 SDRAM DDR2 667
soon to be 4GB. 
- Video card nvidia 6200 series
- Homerun HD capture box.
[/HTML]

frontend specs

[HTML] 
- Intel Pentium Dual-Core E5400 Wolfdale 2.7GHz LGA 775 65W Dual-Core
- CORSAIR 4GB (2 x 2GB) 240-Pin DDR2 SDRAM DDR2 800 (PC2 6400) 
- ASUS P5N7A-VM LGA 775 NVIDIA GeForce 9300/nForce 730i HDMI Micro ATX 
- Seagate Barracuda 7200.12 ST3500418AS 500GB 7200 RPM SATA 3.0Gb/s 3.5
[/HTML]

Initally after setting up the backend I noticed my program guide data was missing. I had to go back into setup and delete my guide setup in mythtv setup. Setup guide data again. then save ... do mythfilldatabase. 
once complete and restarted frontend on the server I had guide data.

It appeared i couldn't connect older 9.04 mythbuntu frontend so did a new install on frontend as well. After completing however I got unable to connect to master. I didnt remember doing a setup of mysql and the pasword like i did in 8.04.
I attempted to the following command which I found somewhere on this forum.
  
mysql -u root --password="myPassword" -h 192.168.5.125 
ERROR 1045 (28000): Access denied for user 'root'@'lepagee-mediaserver.local' (using password: YES) 

So i thought mysql wasn't setup properly since I am a newbie and couldn't find anything close enough matching my issue in the forums and I decided to just go through the setup on the server a second time to be sure I didn't miss anything.... at the end of the install is where I am guessing I made my mistake. I didn't setup the ip address and may have left them as 127.0.0.1. This time I entered the ip address( there are two places on that screen you need to add the ip address to) my router would assign the network card. after updating the frontend to new mysql password( located on server under setup utils->setup->General). The frontend was working.
Again after the install guide data again was not working. So I went back into mythtv setup and removed the added guide data as before and re did the guide data. 

Lastly to get optical output working
alasmixer...
enable IEC958 set volume to zero/off.

> 
IEC958             IEC958P       
enable              off     


leave other IEC958P setting as pcm.      


everything is currently running.
Hope this helps someone 

Newbie02

---

