---
title: ".23 backend respawning loop"
date: 2010-04-18
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by tommyp on 2010-04-18
Upon upgrade to .23, my backend does not start up unless i type "mythbackend" in a terminal.  My logs are showing an endless loop of the following:

```
Apr 18 00:08:19 krimpet init: mythtv-backend main process (8653) terminated with status 254
Apr 18 00:08:19 krimpet init: mythtv-backend main process ended, respawning
Apr 18 00:08:22 krimpet init: mythtv-backend main process (8660) terminated with status 254
Apr 18 00:08:22 krimpet init: mythtv-backend main process ended, respawning
Apr 18 00:08:26 krimpet init: mythtv-backend main process (8667) terminated with status 254
Apr 18 00:08:26 krimpet init: mythtv-backend main process ended, respawning
```

Any idea what is causing this?   How do I fix it?

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2010-04-18
Hi,

What do you see in your backend log (/var/log/mythbackend.log).

In mythbuntu 9.10 they've gone over to using upstart to control startup scripts, and upstart will restart a process if it dies/stops for any reason.

I imagine you have a permissions problem, as the backend starts if you start it manually or maybe a timing problem (backend starting before mysql running).

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by rich mason on 2010-04-18
I was having this problem. 

in /var/log/mythbackend.log i found:

[INDENT]010-04-19 08:21:34.967 UPnPautoconf() - Found one UPnP backend
2010-04-19 08:21:35.115 MythXMLClient::GetConnectionInfo Failed - (606) Action Not Authorized
2010-04-19 08:21:35.126 Testing network connectivity to '10.1.1.4'
2010-04-19 08:21:35.148 Closing DB connection named 'DBManager0'
2010-04-19 08:21:35.278 Unable to connect to database!
2010-04-19 08:21:35.324 Driver error was [1/1045]:
QMYSQL: Unable to connect
Database error was:
Access denied for user 'mythtv'@'10.1.1.4' (using password: YES)

2010-04-19 08:21:35.341 Cannot login to database?[/INDENT]

I fixed it by setting the mythtv users mysql password to "mythtv":

# mysql -u root -p mysql
myqsl> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'mythtv'@'localhost'
    -> IDENTIFIED BY 'mythtv' WITH GRANT OPTION;
mysql> UPDATE user SET Password=PASSWORD('mythtv') WHERE user='mythtv';
mysql> FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
mysql> quit

then changing the password in /etc/mythtv/config.xml and /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt to mythtv as well 

There is probably an easier way to fix it but this worked ok for me.

---

### Post by mars76 on 2010-04-18
Thanks  a lot that worked for me as well..

I am not sure why the old password didn't work !!

Now my mythweb is not working..

**Warning**:  require(modules/_shared/tmpl/tmpl/header.php) [[function.require]("http://localhost/mythweb/function.require")]: failed to open stream: No such file or directory in **/usr/share/mythtv/mythweb/modules/_shared/tmpl/_errors/fatal.php** on line **23**

**Fatal error**:  require() [[function.require]("http://localhost/mythweb/function.require")]: Failed opening required 'modules/_shared/tmpl/tmpl/header.php' (include_path='.:/usr/share/php:/usr/share/pear') in **/usr/share/mythtv/mythweb/modules/_shared/tmpl/_errors/fatal.php** on line **23**

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2010-04-18
Hi,

Just reinstall mythweb then reinstall it.

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

