---
title: "9.10 Supported TV cards?"
date: 2010-01-04
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by AlecJ on 2010-01-04
On my last attempt to upgrade to 9.10 back in Dec 09, from 8.10 with a clean install.
 I had problems with my TV cards not being recognised or I was unable to tune. I was unable to connect the DVB-S cards with their LNB's
 Then after installing 9.04 and building my channel's and doing the online upgrade to 9.10, I slowly lost the TV channels as after a reboot the TV tuners were now not recognised, causing much anger and frustration!
 

 My cards are listed as:-
 

 2x    ST STV0299         DVB-S     Wintv Nova-s 
 1x    Zarlink MT352     DVB-T    Kworld 100 
 2x    DiBcom 3000MC/P    DVB-T    Nova-T 500 
 1x    DiBcom 3000M-B    DVB-T    VisonPlus USB
 

 I read later that these problems were addressed in the daily builds.
 

 I have just downloaded and burnt to CD a copy of mythbuntu 9.10 64bit from the website.
 

 My question is:
 Are these problems fixed in the iso, is this a fully working and updated install disk?

---

### Post by AlecJ on 2010-01-09
After a day of trying to install from these iso's

I have to conclude that NO they don't work.

I had to install from 9.04 to be able to find a tune my cards then use "update manager" to upgrade the system to 9.10

I still can not use my usb dvb-t that worked fine on 9.04?

I'm still looking for answers as to how to fix these issues.

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2010-01-10
Hi,

Maybe have a look at [http://www.linuxtv.org/](http://www.linuxtv.org/) it could well be that there are newer drivers available that aren't in the kernel used in Mythbuntu.

I thought the Nova-T 500 should work out of the box.Did all these cards work in  8.10 ?

If they did work and now they don't then it's a configuration problem in mythtv and not a kernel driver problem.

1) Have a look in your syslog for messages about your tuner cards. (/var/log/syslog)
2) Have a look in your mythtvbackend log for any error messages (/var/log/mythtv/mythbackend.log)
3) do a "ls /dev/dvb -o" it should show all your dvb cards known to the system
4) Run myth-setup and check how the cards are configured.

Without knowing exactly what the problem is/an error message of some sort it's hard to find a solution.

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

