---
title: "11.04 to 12.04 upgrade problems"
date: 2012-07-03
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by JamesNorris on 2012-07-03
Of course, I stopped off at 11.10 in between, but somewhere along the lines a few problems with Myth cropped up. 

I am running 0.25-fixes from the mythbuntu repos and a soundgraph iMon Pad remote (using devinput). 

1. All of my irexec commands have stopped working from my remote. Strangely, irw reports keypresses for all buttons aside from those with irexec commands attached. 

2. On a related note, lirc seems to be sending each keypress twice, so I can't bring up the menu during playback and navigating the menus in the frontend always goes down two levels each time I press "ok". My lirc file for mythtv states "repeat = 0", so I'm not sure what it is. 

3. The audio seems to have been switched around and now my keyboard hotkeys do nothing at all, but the OSD shows that the volume is going up/down and my remote shows nothing, but does actually change the volume. The additional problem is that I used to have "master" volume set to 100 all of the time and myth would increase/decrease the PCM volume only. I've tried changing the ALSA settings and have found that ALSA: pulse allows me to use my keyboard and mouse to change the volume, but I have to change "master" rather than PCM and I can't get PCM to stay at 100, it drops automatically to somewhere between 50 and 75, so nothing ever really gets loud enough. 


All help would be greatly appreciated, we've had his setup for years and it is quickly losing WAF...

Thanks,

---

### Post by JamesNorris on 2012-07-04
Edit: I have managed to fix the double keypress thing, but now only the D-pad buttons and volume buttons work (I think they're working outside of Myth and that is carrying over). 

irw reports nothing, but ir-keytable -t reports keypresses for everything BUT the irexec buttons AND the big 'home' button that I have assigned to EPG.

---

