---
title: "my 9.10 system forces multiple logins before it will start - HELP!"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by neutron68 on 2009-11-06
My upgraded 9.10 system is forcing me to login (gdm?) no matter if I have the system set to auto login my username or not.  
It's like it is ignoring the /etc/dgm/custom.conf file contents.

Forcing me to login with my password wouldn't be so bad, but the system often forces me to login at least 2 times before I will see the Ubuntu desktop.  At one point earlier this week, the system made me login 10 TIMES before it FINALLY booted into Ubuntu!

SYMPTOMS:

At each login, I see the black Mythbuntu splash screen with the animated white line under the word, then the screen goes black, then I get the Ubuntu login window.  If I enter the password for my username, the screen goes back to the black Mythbuntu splash screen with the animated white line under the word, then the screen goes black and then I get the Ubuntu login window agian, etc.

I'm not enough of a Ubuntu expert to know what would cause multiple logins to occur.  Perhaps some part of gdm is crashing and causing a restart of gdm (the black screen I mentioned), and thus the multiple logins??

I went into the Mytyhbuntu Control Center and disabled the autostart of Mythtv - thinking it might help narrow down the search for the cause.  So, after the multiple logins I end up at the Mythbuntu desktop.

Are there any logs I can check to get some clues as to what is going on?

I read about this gdm bug in Ubuntu 9.10:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/447226](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/447226)

Could this be what is happening to me?  gdm and upstart are fighting each other and respawing gdm?

I need some help to fix this one.
Eric

---

### Post by neutron68 on 2009-11-10
Another user is having the same problem over in the Ubuntu Installation-Upgrade section of the forum.  
Mine does not appear to be an isolated case.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1320954](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1320954)

The other user reinstalled gdm and believes the problem may be fixed.  I'll give that a try, too.

Eric

Reinstallling gdm didn't help.
So, no one knows anything about how gdm works?

---

### Post by neutron68 on 2009-11-15
Something has changed on my system and the forced multi-logins have stopped.

I posted a description of what I tried yesterday on a thread in the Ubuntu Installation and Upgrade section:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8322246](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8322246)

---

