---
title: "[SOLVED] Going crazy getting 1080i out, please help."
date: 2008-04-02
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by seepage87 on 2008-04-02
I'm about going nuts on this project.  I've been working on this myth box forever.  My master backend is fine, but my front end is really pissing me off.

I just bought a new MSI Nvidia 8400GS card for this thing and am running a DVI cable into my mitsubishi ws-55315 (I think that's the one).  The highest it will let me put my resolution is 740x480.

I've read about messing with my xorg, but I'm not sure what to set everything there since there seems to be a lot of disagreement.  I just want to get my TV to display at 1080i (which it does while booting, and in windows).  I don't even need my monitor connected at the same time.  Just my tv working with myth displaying at 1080i.

What do I need to do?

---

### Post by foxbuntu on 2008-04-03
> **seepage87 said:**
> I'm about going nuts on this project.  I've been working on this myth box forever.  My master backend is fine, but my front end is really pissing me off.

I just bought a new MSI Nvidia 8400GS card for this thing and am running a DVI cable into my mitsubishi ws-55315 (I think that's the one).  The highest it will let me put my resolution is 740x480.

I've read about messing with my xorg, but I'm not sure what to set everything there since there seems to be a lot of disagreement.  I just want to get my TV to display at 1080i (which it does while booting, and in windows).  I don't even need my monitor connected at the same time.  Just my tv working with myth displaying at 1080i.

What do I need to do?
do you have the Nvidia Retricted drivers enabled? If so, what version of Mythbuntu are you using?

---

### Post by seepage87 on 2008-04-03
I do, and I'm using gutsy then did a full upgrade.

---

### Post by majoridiot on 2008-04-04
> **seepage87 said:**
> I'm about going nuts on this project.  I've been working on this myth box forever.  My master backend is fine, but my front end is really pissing me off.

I just bought a new MSI Nvidia 8400GS card for this thing and am running a DVI cable into my mitsubishi ws-55315 (I think that's the one).  The highest it will let me put my resolution is 740x480.

I've read about messing with my xorg, but I'm not sure what to set everything there since there seems to be a lot of disagreement.  I just want to get my TV to display at 1080i (which it does while booting, and in windows).  I don't even need my monitor connected at the same time.  Just my tv working with myth displaying at 1080i.

What do I need to do?

you should be able to configure your resolution from nvidia-settings. you will find it in the restricted drivers tab
of mythbuntu-control-centre.

if there's still no love after trying this, please post a copy of your /etc/X11.xorg.conf so we can see how it
is currently config'd and how to fix things.

---

### Post by seepage87 on 2008-04-04
In the Nvidia driver settings (accessed from MCC) I can only go to 720x480.  I'll post my X11 when I get home.

---

### Post by seepage87 on 2008-04-04
A couple quick notes:
I changed my video card and am now connecting via component cables instead of DVI.  People seemed to be having problems with that.  The new card is a gigabyte nvidia 8600 GT.

My resolution on my tv defaulted to 1024x768 (or so the nvidia interface claimed).  This is as high as I seem to be able to get it so far.  Anyway, here's my xorg. 
```

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:30:30 PDT 2007

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:35 PDT 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "TV-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "TV-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Generic Video Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600 GT"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:2:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Generic Video Card"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "DPI" "100x100"
    Option         "UseEvents" "1"
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "1"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "1"
    Option         "NoLogo" "1"
    Option         "UseDisplayDevice" "TV"
    Option         "TVOutFormat" "COMPONENT"
    Option         "TVStandard" "HD1080i"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1920x1080" "1280x720" "1024x768" "720x480" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "TV: 1024x768 +0+0; TV: 800x600 +0+0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "TwinView" "0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "DFP: 1280x1024 +0+0; DFP: 800x600 +0+0; DFP: 640x480 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "metamodes" "TV: 1024x768 +0+0, DFP: 1280x1024 +1024+0; TV: 800x600 +0+0, DFP: 800x600 +800+0; DFP: 640x480 +0+0"
EndSection

```
I read somewhere that for some reason a TV a lot like mine could only get around 13**x7** resoltuion and mentioned to set the resolution to that.  I'll try to find it, but that doesn't seem right since both mine and the one talked about are 1080i which <i>should</i> be 1920x1080.  Anyway, any help would be really really appriciated.

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2008-04-04
Seems the portion of xorg.conf related to video device has been omited.  Nvidia settings has an area to detect display and force settings.  I have been curious how the pc would detect a display via component.  Hope someone can answer this.

---

### Post by lime4x4 on 2008-04-04
i'm running the hardy version with the mythbox connected thru a dvi cable here is my xorg file and this is hooked up to a 51 inch widescreen tv


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"      "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Busid           "PCI:0:16:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        Horizsync       28-96
        Vertrefresh     43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        Defaultdepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1920x1200"     "1440x900"      "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        Option          "AddARGBGLXVisuals"     "True"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
        Inputdevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        Inputdevice     "Configured Mouse"

        # Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
        #       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
        Option          "Composite"     "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by prosonik on 2008-04-05
Hi there

First off, i think you should backup and clean up your xorg.conf  and try to get 1080i working. It looks like you have some other twinview suff going on. Forget that for now (besides, what do you need twinview if your using 1080i? :)  Also, use dvi or vga.. I'm not sure how component would work, as the autodetect stuff shouldn't work.

you'll notice mine is kept preety simple. it seems to be working a 100% other then vnc. You'll notice i use 1080p. i let the drivers figure it out for themselves. For you, go back and try the 1080i line with nothing else defined. you probably don't even nee that. I have even found with the latest and greatest nvidia drivers, that if you screw it up, it will just autoselect the correct resolution. So i guess less is more! :)

also, if after you have cleaned up your xorg, and it's stil not working
give us the intresting bits from your:  pic /var/log/Xorg.0.log | less


this is my xorg.conf

 nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Layout0"
  screen 0 "Screen0"
	Inputdevice	"Keyboard0"	"CoreKeyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Mouse0"	"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
	Rgbpath		"/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"dbe"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"type1"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"vnc"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	# generated from default
	Identifier	"Mouse0"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"no"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	# generated from default
	Identifier	"Keyboard0"
	Driver		"kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor0"
	Vendorname	"Unknown"
	Modelname	"Unknown"
	Horizsync	30.0	-	110.0
	Vertrefresh	50.0	-	150.0
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Device0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Screen0"
	Device		"Device0"
	Monitor		"Monitor0"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
	EndSubSection
	Option		"TVStandard"	"HD1080p"
	Option		"SecurityTypes"	"VncAuth"
	Option		"UserPasswdVerifier"	"VncAuth"
	Option		"PasswordFile"	"/root/.vnc/passwd"
EndSection


and the exciting bits from the log;

II) NVIDIA(0): Detected PCI Express Link width: 16X
(--) NVIDIA(0): Interlaced video modes are supported on this GPU
(--) NVIDIA(0): Connected display device(s) on GeForce 8600 GTS at PCI:4:0:0:
(--) NVIDIA(0):     WDE WESTINGHOUSETX-42F430S (CRT-0)
(--) NVIDIA(0): WDE WESTINGHOUSETX-42F430S (CRT-0): 400.0 MHz maximum pixel
(--) NVIDIA(0):     clock
(II) NVIDIA(0): Assigned Display Device: CRT-0
(==) NVIDIA(0): 
(==) NVIDIA(0): No modes were requested; the default mode "nvidia-auto-select"
(==) NVIDIA(0):     will be used as the requested mode.
(==) NVIDIA(0): 
(II) NVIDIA(0): Validated modes:
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "nvidia-auto-select"
(II) NVIDIA(0): Virtual screen size determined to be 1920 x 1080
(++) NVIDIA(0): DPI set to (100, 100); computed from -dpi X commandline option
(==) NVIDIA(0): Enabling 32-bit ARGB GLX visuals.

you can see, the driver itself is doing all the hard work!

prosonik




> **seepage87 said:**
> A couple quick notes:
I changed my video card and am now connecting via component cables instead of DVI.  People seemed to be having problems with that.  The new card is a gigabyte nvidia 8600 GT.

My resolution on my tv defaulted to 1024x768 (or so the nvidia interface claimed).  This is as high as I seem to be able to get it so far.  Anyway, here's my xorg. 

I read somewhere that for some reason a TV a lot like mine could only get around 13**x7** resoltuion and mentioned to set the resolution to that.  I'll try to find it, but that doesn't seem right since both mine and the one talked about are 1080i which <i>should</i> be 1920x1080.  Anyway, any help would be really really appriciated.

---

### Post by seepage87 on 2008-04-06
Thanks so much for your help.  In my experience, the Nvidia auto select resolution has been very bad.  Yours said:

(II) NVIDIA(0): "nvidia-auto-select"
(II) NVIDIA(0): Virtual screen size determined to be 1920 x 1080

but when I was using dvi, it auto-selected 780x420 I think.  My problem is that the auto-select is not doing its job, and I need to force it to act right.  I'll see what I can do and get back to you, but I'm really not confident in my knowledge of how to change the xorg manually  (i.e. which arguments to put in which sections and which section applies to which display, not the actual act of editing the file).

---

### Post by majoridiot on 2008-04-07
> **seepage87 said:**
> Thanks so much for your help.  In my experience, the Nvidia auto select resolution has been very bad.  Yours said:

(II) NVIDIA(0): "nvidia-auto-select"
(II) NVIDIA(0): Virtual screen size determined to be 1920 x 1080

but when I was using dvi, it auto-selected 780x420 I think.  My problem is that the auto-select is not doing its job, and I need to force it to act right.  I'll see what I can do and get back to you, but I'm really not confident in my knowledge of how to change the xorg manually  (i.e. which arguments to put in which sections and which section applies to which display, not the actual act of editing the file).

if you post a copy of your current xorg.conf, you should get plenty of help with the changes you need to make :)

---

### Post by majoridiot on 2008-04-07
sorry.. missed that you had already posted one.

try this xorg.conf...

first backup your original:

```
$ cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf ~/xorg.conf.bak
```

then, edit your current xorg.conf as sudo and replace the **entire** contents with this one and save it.  the example
uses the nano text editor, but you can use the editor of choice:

first, delete the xorg you just backed up:

```
$ sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

then, make a new one:

```
$ sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

then paste the following into the empty file and save:

```
Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600 GT"
    Option         "DPI" "100x100"
    Option         "UseEvents" "1"
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "1"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "1"
    Option         "NoLogo" "1"
    Option         "UseDisplayDevice" "TV"
    Option         "TVOutFormat" "COMPONENT"
    Option         "TVStandard" "HD1080i"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1920x1080" "1280x720" "1024x768" "720x480" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

once you save it, ctrl-alt-backspace to restart X and apply the changes, or reboot to see the results.

if things are worse, or do not work at all, please post a copy of the resulting /var/log/Xorg.0.log.

you can reboot into recovery mode and restore your backed- up xorg with:

```
$sudo cp /home/<your user name>/xorg.conf.bak /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by seepage87 on 2008-04-07
Thanks, I'll try that xorg when I get home.  Just curious, is that set up for a single TV display with no monitor?  I'm more than happy if only the TV works, so long as it's 1080i, though if the monitor works as well with the myth frontend interface displaying on the TV, that would be silghtly better, I guess.

---

### Post by majoridiot on 2008-04-07
> **seepage87 said:**
> Thanks, I'll try that xorg when I get home.  Just curious, is that set up for a single TV display with no monitor?  I'm more than happy if only the TV works, so long as it's 1080i, though if the monitor works as well with the myth frontend interface displaying on the TV, that would be silghtly better, I guess.

that one is just for the 1080i display...

---

### Post by prosonik on 2008-04-08
Also,

I've lost track of what tv you are using?  i can't remember exactly, but i thought some 1080i tvs had some weird resolutions, due to the actual screen size.  I'd really like to see what your logs are telling us.

---

### Post by seepage87 on 2008-04-09
I'll try to take care of all this tonight.  I work in investment banking, so hours can get a little rough.  I'll see what kind of information I can provide.

---

### Post by majoridiot on 2008-04-09
> **seepage87 said:**
> I'll try to take care of all this tonight.  I work in investment banking, so hours can get a little rough.  I'll see what kind of information I can provide.

if it fails, be sure to include a copy of your /var/log/Xorg.0.log so we can see what is going on.

---

### Post by seepage87 on 2008-04-09
Ok, I tried the xorg you suggested and it didn't work.  I think it's because of the resolution issue personik alluded to.  When I used it in windows a couple years back I had to shrink down the resolution to make it fit properly.  Here's the what I think are the interesting parts of the log:

```

(II) Setting vga for screen 0.
(**) NVIDIA(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
(==) NVIDIA(0): RGB weight 888
(==) NVIDIA(0): Default visual is TrueColor
(==) NVIDIA(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "NoLogo" "1"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "TVStandard" "HD1080i"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "TVOutFormat" "COMPONENT"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "UseDisplayDevice" "TV"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "DPI" "100x100"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "UseEvents" "1"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "1"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Enabling RENDER acceleration
(**) NVIDIA(0): Forcing COMPONENT output
(**) NVIDIA(0): TV Standard string: "HD1080i"
(II) NVIDIA(0): Support for GLX with the Damage and Composite X extensions is
(II) NVIDIA(0):     enabled.
(II) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA GPU GeForce 8600 GT (G84) at PCI:2:0:0 (GPU-0)
(--) NVIDIA(0): Memory: 262144 kBytes
(--) NVIDIA(0): VideoBIOS: 60.84.5e.00.00
(II) NVIDIA(0): Detected PCI Express Link width: 2X(--) NVIDIA(0): Interlaced video modes are supported on this GPU
(--) NVIDIA(0): Connected display device(s) on GeForce 8600 GT at PCI:2:0:0:
(--) NVIDIA(0):     NVIDIA TV Encoder (TV-0)
(--) NVIDIA(0):     LCD R913E (DFP-0)
(--) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA TV Encoder (TV-0): 400.0 MHz maximum pixel clock
(--) NVIDIA(0): TV encoder: NVIDIA
(II) NVIDIA(0): Option "UseDisplayDevice" "TV" converted to "TV-0".
(II) NVIDIA(0): Assigned Display Device: TV-0
(II) NVIDIA(0): Validated modes:
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1920x1080"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1280x720"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1024x768"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "720x480"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "800x600"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "640x480"
(II) NVIDIA(0): Virtual screen size determined to be 1920 x 1080
(++) NVIDIA(0): DPI set to (100, 100); computed from -dpi X commandline option
(**) NVIDIA(0): Enabling 32-bit ARGB GLX visuals.
(--) Depth 24 pixmap format is 32 bpp
(II) do I need RAC?  No, I don't.
(II) resource ranges after preInit:
        [0] 0   0       0xf8000000 - 0xf9ffffff (0x2000000) MX[B]
        [1] 0   0       0xd0000000 - 0xdfffffff (0x10000000) MX[B]
        [2] 0   0       0xfa000000 - 0xfaffffff (0x1000000) MX[B]
        [3] -1  0       0x00100000 - 0x3fffffff (0x3ff00000) MX[B]E(B)
        [4] -1  0       0x000f0000 - 0x000fffff (0x10000) MX[B]
        [5] -1  0       0x000c0000 - 0x000effff (0x30000) MX[B]
        [6] -1  0       0x00000000 - 0x0009ffff (0xa0000) MX[B]
        [7] -1  0       0xfdef8000 - 0xfdefbfff (0x4000) MX[B]
        [8] -1  0       0xfdeff000 - 0xfdeff7ff (0x800) MX[B]
        [9] -1  0       0xfe02a000 - 0xfe02afff (0x1000) MX[B]
        [10] -1 0       0xfe02b000 - 0xfe02bfff (0x1000) MX[B]
        [11] -1 0       0xfe02c000 - 0xfe02cfff (0x1000) MX[B]
        [12] -1 0       0xfe02d000 - 0xfe02dfff (0x1000) MX[B]
        [13] -1 0       0xfeb00000 - 0xfeb000ff (0x100) MX[B]
        [14] -1 0       0xfe02f000 - 0xfe02ffff (0x1000) MX[B]
        [15] -1 0       0xf8000000 - 0xf9ffffff (0x2000000) MX[B](B)
        [16] -1 0       0xd0000000 - 0xdfffffff (0x10000000) MX[B](B)
        [17] -1 0       0xfa000000 - 0xfaffffff (0x1000000) MX[B](B)
        [18] 0  0       0x000a0000 - 0x000affff (0x10000) MS[B](OprD)
        [19] 0  0       0x000b0000 - 0x000b7fff (0x8000) MS[B](OprD)
        [20] 0  0       0x000b8000 - 0x000bffff (0x8000) MS[B](OprD)
        [21] 0  0       0x00009c00 - 0x00009c7f (0x80) IX[B]
        [22] -1 0       0x0000ffff - 0x0000ffff (0x1) IX[B]
        [23] -1 0       0x00000000 - 0x000000ff (0x100) IX[B]
        [24] -1 0       0x0000a800 - 0x0000a8ff (0x100) IX[B]
        [25] -1 0       0x0000ac00 - 0x0000ac7f (0x80) IX[B]
        [26] -1 0       0x0000bc00 - 0x0000bc07 (0x8) IX[B]
        [27] -1 0       0x0000c000 - 0x0000c00f (0x10) IX[B]
        [28] -1 0       0x00000b60 - 0x00000b63 (0x4) IX[B]
        [29] -1 0       0x00000960 - 0x00000967 (0x8) IX[B]
        [30] -1 0       0x00000be0 - 0x00000be3 (0x4) IX[B]
        [31] -1 0       0x000009e0 - 0x000009e7 (0x8) IX[B]
        [32] -1 0       0x0000d400 - 0x0000d40f (0x10) IX[B]        [33] -1 0       0x00000b70 - 0x00000b73 (0x4) IX[B]
        [34] -1 0       0x00000970 - 0x00000977 (0x8) IX[B]
        [35] -1 0       0x00000bf0 - 0x00000bf3 (0x4) IX[B]
        [36] -1 0       0x000009f0 - 0x000009f7 (0x8) IX[B]
        [37] -1 0       0x0000e800 - 0x0000e80f (0x10) IX[B]
        [38] -1 0       0x0000ec00 - 0x0000ecff (0x100) IX[B]
        [39] -1 0       0x0000f000 - 0x0000f0ff (0x100) IX[B]
        [40] -1 0       0x00001c40 - 0x00001c7f (0x40) IX[B]
        [41] -1 0       0x00001c00 - 0x00001c3f (0x40) IX[B]
        [42] -1 0       0x0000fc00 - 0x0000fc1f (0x20) IX[B]
        [43] -1 0       0x00009c00 - 0x00009c7f (0x80) IX[B](B)
        [44] 0  0       0x000003b0 - 0x000003bb (0xc) IS[B](OprU)
        [45] 0  0       0x000003c0 - 0x000003df (0x20) IS[B](OprU)
(II) NVIDIA(0): Initialized GART.
(II) NVIDIA(0): Setting mode "1920x1080"
(--) NVIDIA(0): No video decoder detected
(EE) NVIDIA(GPU-0): Failed to configure GPU scaling: Mode too large to scale.
(II) Loading extension NV-GLX
(II) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA 3D Acceleration Architecture Initialized
(II) NVIDIA(0): Using the NVIDIA 2D acceleration architecture
(==) NVIDIA(0): Backing store disabled
(==) NVIDIA(0): Silken mouse enabled
(**) Option "dpms"
(**) NVIDIA(0): DPMS enabled
(II) Loading extension NV-CONTROL
(WW) NVIDIA(0): Option "AddARGBVisuals" is not used

```

---

### Post by majoridiot on 2008-04-10
> **seepage87 said:**
> Ok, I tried the xorg you suggested and it didn't work.  I think it's because of the resolution issue personik alluded to.  When I used it in windows a couple years back I had to shrink down the resolution to make it fit properly.  Here's the what I think are the interesting parts of the log:

the most troubling to me is this error:
```
(EE) NVIDIA(GPU-0): Failed to configure GPU scaling: Mode too large to scale.
```

this:

```
(WW) NVIDIA(0): Option "AddARGBVisuals" is not used
```

is just a warning and means that you can remove that line from xorg.conf.

as a troubleshooting step, try setting:

```
    Option         "TVStandard" "HD1080i"
```

to:

```
    Option         "TVStandard" "HD720P"
```

and see if it will run in 720p.  your tv should automatically upconvert it or switch modes.

if it fails, please post the relevant portion of your Xorg.0.log again, so we can see if it is failing for the 
same reason.

also, have your tried looking @ the nvidia linux forums to see if there are similar issues reported there?

[http://nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?f=14&order=desc](http://nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?f=14&order=desc)

---

### Post by seepage87 on 2008-04-11
Hmmm... No luck.  There's no longer that error, but there's no display either.  The TV out works fine (well 480i) when booting, but as soon as x starts it doesn't display anthing.  Any thoughts?

```

(II) Setting vga for screen 0.
(**) NVIDIA(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
(==) NVIDIA(0): RGB weight 888
(==) NVIDIA(0): Default visual is TrueColor
(==) NVIDIA(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "NoLogo" "1"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "TVStandard" "HD720p"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "TVOutFormat" "COMPONENT"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "UseDisplayDevice" "TV"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "DPI" "100x100"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "UseEvents" "1"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "1"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Enabling RENDER acceleration
(**) NVIDIA(0): Forcing COMPONENT output
(**) NVIDIA(0): TV Standard string: "HD720p"
(II) NVIDIA(0): Support for GLX with the Damage and Composite X extensions is
(II) NVIDIA(0):     enabled.
(II) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA GPU GeForce 8600 GT (G84) at PCI:2:0:0 (GPU-0)
(--) NVIDIA(0): Memory: 262144 kBytes
(--) NVIDIA(0): VideoBIOS: 60.84.5e.00.00
(II) NVIDIA(0): Detected PCI Express Link width: 2X
(--) NVIDIA(0): Interlaced video modes are supported on this GPU
(--) NVIDIA(0): Connected display device(s) on GeForce 8600 GT at PCI:2:0:0:
(--) NVIDIA(0):     NVIDIA TV Encoder (TV-0)
(--) NVIDIA(0):     LCD R913E (DFP-0)
(--) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA TV Encoder (TV-0): 400.0 MHz maximum pixel clock
(--) NVIDIA(0): TV encoder: NVIDIA
(II) NVIDIA(0): Option "UseDisplayDevice" "TV" converted to "TV-0".
(II) NVIDIA(0): Assigned Display Device: TV-0
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1920x1080"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1024x768"; removing.
(II) NVIDIA(0): Validated modes:
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1280x720"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "720x480"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "800x600"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "640x480"
(II) NVIDIA(0): Virtual screen size determined to be 1280 x 720
(++) NVIDIA(0): DPI set to (100, 100); computed from -dpi X commandline option
(**) NVIDIA(0): Enabling 32-bit ARGB GLX visuals.
(--) Depth 24 pixmap format is 32 bpp
(II) do I need RAC?  No, I don't.
(II) resource ranges after preInit:
        [0] 0   0       0xf8000000 - 0xf9ffffff (0x2000000) MX[B]
        [1] 0   0       0xd0000000 - 0xdfffffff (0x10000000) MX[B]
        [2] 0   0       0xfa000000 - 0xfaffffff (0x1000000) MX[B]
        [3] -1  0       0x00100000 - 0x3fffffff (0x3ff00000) MX[B]E(B)
        [4] -1  0       0x000f0000 - 0x000fffff (0x10000) MX[B]
        [5] -1  0       0x000c0000 - 0x000effff (0x30000) MX[B]
        [6] -1  0       0x00000000 - 0x0009ffff (0xa0000) MX[B]
        [7] -1  0       0xfdef8000 - 0xfdefbfff (0x4000) MX[B]
        [8] -1  0       0xfdeff000 - 0xfdeff7ff (0x800) MX[B]
        [9] -1  0       0xfe02a000 - 0xfe02afff (0x1000) MX[B]
        [10] -1 0       0xfe02b000 - 0xfe02bfff (0x1000) MX[B]
        [11] -1 0       0xfe02c000 - 0xfe02cfff (0x1000) MX[B]
        [12] -1 0       0xfe02d000 - 0xfe02dfff (0x1000) MX[B]
        [13] -1 0       0xfeb00000 - 0xfeb000ff (0x100) MX[B]
        [14] -1 0       0xfe02f000 - 0xfe02ffff (0x1000) MX[B]
        [15] -1 0       0xf8000000 - 0xf9ffffff (0x2000000) MX[B](B)
        [16] -1 0       0xd0000000 - 0xdfffffff (0x10000000) MX[B](B)
        [17] -1 0       0xfa000000 - 0xfaffffff (0x1000000) MX[B](B)
        [18] 0  0       0x000a0000 - 0x000affff (0x10000) MS[B](OprD)
        [19] 0  0       0x000b0000 - 0x000b7fff (0x8000) MS[B](OprD)
        [20] 0  0       0x000b8000 - 0x000bffff (0x8000) MS[B](OprD)
        [21] 0  0       0x00009c00 - 0x00009c7f (0x80) IX[B]
        [22] -1 0       0x0000ffff - 0x0000ffff (0x1) IX[B]
        [23] -1 0       0x00000000 - 0x000000ff (0x100) IX[B]
        [24] -1 0       0x0000a800 - 0x0000a8ff (0x100) IX[B]
        [25] -1 0       0x0000ac00 - 0x0000ac7f (0x80) IX[B]
        [26] -1 0       0x0000bc00 - 0x0000bc07 (0x8) IX[B]
        [27] -1 0       0x0000c000 - 0x0000c00f (0x10) IX[B]
        [28] -1 0       0x00000b60 - 0x00000b63 (0x4) IX[B]
        [29] -1 0       0x00000960 - 0x00000967 (0x8) IX[B]
        [30] -1 0       0x00000be0 - 0x00000be3 (0x4) IX[B]
        [31] -1 0       0x000009e0 - 0x000009e7 (0x8) IX[B]
        [32] -1 0       0x0000d400 - 0x0000d40f (0x10) IX[B]
        [33] -1 0       0x00000b70 - 0x00000b73 (0x4) IX[B]
        [34] -1 0       0x00000970 - 0x00000977 (0x8) IX[B]
        [35] -1 0       0x00000bf0 - 0x00000bf3 (0x4) IX[B]
        [36] -1 0       0x000009f0 - 0x000009f7 (0x8) IX[B]
        [37] -1 0       0x0000e800 - 0x0000e80f (0x10) IX[B]
        [38] -1 0       0x0000ec00 - 0x0000ecff (0x100) IX[B]
        [39] -1 0       0x0000f000 - 0x0000f0ff (0x100) IX[B]
        [40] -1 0       0x00001c40 - 0x00001c7f (0x40) IX[B]
        [41] -1 0       0x00001c00 - 0x00001c3f (0x40) IX[B]
        [42] -1 0       0x0000fc00 - 0x0000fc1f (0x20) IX[B]
        [43] -1 0       0x00009c00 - 0x00009c7f (0x80) IX[B](B)
        [44] 0  0       0x000003b0 - 0x000003bb (0xc) IS[B](OprU)
        [45] 0  0       0x000003c0 - 0x000003df (0x20) IS[B](OprU)
(II) NVIDIA(0): Initialized GART.
(II) NVIDIA(0): Setting mode "1280x720"
(--) NVIDIA(0): No video decoder detected
(II) Loading extension NV-GLX
(II) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA 3D Acceleration Architecture Initialized
(II) NVIDIA(0): Using the NVIDIA 2D acceleration architecture
(==) NVIDIA(0): Backing store disabled
(==) NVIDIA(0): Silken mouse enabled
(**) Option "dpms"
(**) NVIDIA(0): DPMS enabled

```

---

### Post by majoridiot on 2008-04-12
> **seepage87 said:**
> Hmmm... No luck.  There's no longer that error, but there's no display either.  The TV out works fine (well 480i) when booting, but as soon as x starts it doesn't display anthing.  Any thoughts?

the log section you just posted was too small and did not contain enough info to help diagnose your
problem.  in fact, the section you posted is exactly the same as my last successful boot with the
exact same video card and xorg.conf, except for the pci assignment for the card.

it would help to post the **entire** Xorg.0.log - which is best done to pastebin.  please copy and 
paste the entire log here: [http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/](http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/) so we can see everything that is happening.

you say the display is fine until X takes over.  then what happens?  what does the TV itself report?
does is display an error like "no signal", etc.?  also, have you checked the TV to see what mode it is
trying to operate in/the mode it detects?  you should have a button similar to "display", etc. that will show 
the current mode on the TV... and you should be able to see the switch from 480i to whatever in real
time.

a few things to check in the meantime:

does your mobo have more than one pci-e slot?  if so, are you using the default slot?

if your mobo is SLI-capable, is the SLI  set to use one card only?  this could be a BIOS setting 
or (in the case of asus) a physical card the needs set correctly.

is BIOS set to use PCI as the default video device?

does you mobo have on-board video, too?  if so, have you disabled it in BIOS?

---

### Post by seepage87 on 2008-04-14
I've never used the pastebin before, but I guess I'd just give you the link:

[http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/7063/](http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/7063/)

Anyway, when it's booting the TV says it's in 480i.  When X takes over the screen gives a sorta staticy display for a while then goes to no input, but that's not surprising since It's never really like 720p (which is the current state).  If I switch to the 1080i line in my xorg the TV displays only black though it claims 1080i, which is promising.

Ok, I *may* have gotten it to work sorta.  With the "too big" error from the 1080i format you gave me, the fact that the TV displayed 1080i when it was just a black screen, and the discussion of native HD resolutions actually below 1080 verticle lines on some TVs,  I decided to put in the format 1365x768 on the modes line in the screen section of my xorg.  Now it's displaying sorta right and the TV claims it 1080i.  The Nvidia settings say it's at 1280x720, which is the fallback in the xorg, so 1365x768 didn't actually do anything.

The  problem is is that the screen is still slightly too big.  The top bar can't be seen, and if I click the (not visible) start menu thing, I only see about half it's width and half it's height.    Also the right and bottom appear to not display to the edge of the desktop either.  I've played with other resoutions but nothing sticks.  If there was a way to resize the desktop ~15 pixels less  so on a side and have it centered, I think that would do it.  I'd be plenty satisfied with that.  Is there a way I can get that to work?

---

### Post by majoridiot on 2008-04-14
> **seepage87 said:**
> Ok, I *may* have gotten it to work sorta.  With the "too big" error from the 1080i format you gave me, the fact that the TV displayed 1080i when it was just a black screen, and the discussion of native HD resolutions actually below 1080 verticle lines on some TVs,  I decided to put in the format 1365x768 on the modes line in the screen section of my xorg.  Now it's displaying sorta right and the TV claims it 1080i.  The Nvidia settings say it's at 1280x720, which is the fallback in the xorg, so 1365x768 didn't actually do anything.

you are definitely making progress there...

> **seepage87 said:**
> The  problem is is that the screen is still slightly too big.  The top bar can't be seen, and if I click the (not visible) start menu thing, I only see about half it's width and half it's height.    Also the right and bottom appear to not display to the edge of the desktop either.  I've played with other resoutions but nothing sticks.  If there was a way to resize the desktop ~15 pixels less  so on a side and have it centered, I think that would do it.  I'd be plenty satisfied with that.  Is there a way I can get that to work?

what you are describing is normal "overscan" for a tv display... and unfortunately nvidia only supports overscan adjustment in linux for some models of their gpus... not including ours. :(

i found a decent-enough workaround to be adjusting the workspace settings for the desktop (settings-->workspace settings) and adjust the margins for window placement.  this ensures that windows are always on the desktop... although it doesn't do much for the taskbar.

same goes for settings in mythtv... you can use the various sizes and x and y offsets to get things pretty close.

of course, it would be a lot simpler if nvidia would just implement the quick-and-easy tv overscan settings like nvidia-setting has in windoze...

---

### Post by seepage87 on 2008-04-14
I resized the MythTV GUI to fit on the screen, and it looks nice.  I'll try resizing the workspace as you suggested, but is that going to fix mplayer when it is in full screen so it doesn't display its edges off the visible screen as well?

---

### Post by seepage87 on 2008-04-14
Well, I tried resetting the margins, and although it makes sure the windows are placed toward the middle, it doesn't do anything for the lost parts of the video when mplayer is in full screen.  Have you found a workaround for that?

---

### Post by seepage87 on 2008-04-15
I did some searching and this is what I found.  If anyone has a better method, please let me know.

The idea is to change the command used to run mplayer in the frontend's player settings.  These are the options I added to the command that was already there:

-monitoraspect 16:9 

which sets the aspect ratio, and

-vf dsize=1134:-2:0,scale=-2:570,expand=1134

which I'll explain.

The dsize sets the intended display size, 1134 is the useful horizontal size of my screen, -2 means to auto scale the vertical resolution according to the aspect ration.

Scale will stretch the video to 570 pixels high, the -2 calculating the horizontal size based on the source videos aspect ratio.  Not sure why 570 looks best on my screen when 638 fits the math with the 1134...any ideas?

Expand fills the remaining horizontal space to the edge of the dsize.  Without this the video seems to the full screen like before(not just to the dsize, so I'd be missing the boarders).

I guess the only possible problem would be videos more "long" than my 16:9 ratio.  After I stretched it vertically it would overflow horizontally.  Not sure how that would be handled.  That really shouldn't be an issue though, since I don't have anything like that and don't really think I'll stumble upon it.  But I'll cross that bridge when I get there.

---

### Post by majoridiot on 2008-04-15
> **seepage87 said:**
> I did some searching and this is what I found.  If anyone has a better method, please let me know.

The idea is to change the command used to run mplayer in the frontend's player settings.  These are the options I added to the command that was already there:

-monitoraspect 16:9 

which sets the aspect ratio, and

-vf dsize=1134:-2:0,scale=-2:570,expand=1134

which I'll explain.

The dsize sets the intended display size, 1134 is the useful horizontal size of my screen, -2 means to auto scale the vertical resolution according to the aspect ration.

Scale will stretch the video to 570 pixels high, the -2 calculating the horizontal size based on the source videos aspect ratio.  Not sure why 570 looks best on my screen when 638 fits the math with the 1134...any ideas?

Expand fills the remaining horizontal space to the edge of the dsize.  Without this the video seems to the full screen like before(not just to the dsize, so I'd be missing the boarders).

I guess the only possible problem would be videos more "long" than my 16:9 ratio.  After I stretched it vertically it would overflow horizontally.  Not sure how that would be handled.  That really shouldn't be an issue though, since I don't have anything like that and don't really think I'll stumble upon it.  But I'll cross that bridge when I get there.

i did not make any changes to mplayer settings and have no problems with losing any of the image or
a need to resize, etc.  however, this could also be the difference between the way the nvidia drivers, X and 
mplayer all interact when displaying 1080i vs. 720p, etc.

this info you posted is probably going to be useful for others, so thanks for posting it! :)

this would all be academic if nvidia would just add tv overscan support to all of the modern GPUs.  sadly, 
they have made it clear in their forums that this is not a priority for them.  their focus, misguided as it is when
you consider that a great deal of linux users are in it for multimedia involving tv's, seems to be on 3D and
helping to tart-up desktops with compiz-like managers, etc.

thanks for continuing to post updates on your progress for others.

---

