---
title: "Blank screen after turning on the tv a second time"
date: 2014-12-16
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by langner on 2014-12-16
Dear All,

I have a problem with the display going blank, as in no signal been sent, when I turn on my tv on for the second time. Now here is the order of events to help get an idea of what is going on. 

1. Install the Mythbuntu 14.04.1 (32bit) and install all updates (plus the ones in the control centre section)
1.1 Using an Nvidia gt210 card - drivers 331

2. Everything works fine, I can see the frontend and use it. 

3. Turned off all the screen savers in the settings

4. After using MythTV I turn my TV off (not the system).

5. The next day I go to use it again and all I get is a TV with no signal from the system. 

Now this my be a simple thing for a pro but I'm a bit stuck (still a bit of a NOOB at some of this). If anyone has any idea of what is going on I would be very grateful for your help. If you need any more information about my system or setting I will try and post them as soon as I can. 

Thanks in advance. 

Matthew

---

### Post by khPWXxF on 2014-12-16
Hi Matthew,
If you are using Nvidia graphics then read on, otherwise I can’t really comment.
 
It’s an issue which I first saw when I loaded 14.04 and it involves negotiation between TV and Myth via the HDMI cable and different ways of working (by nvidia?). I don't fully understand it but you can fix it by editing /etc/X11/xorg.conf and adding to the "Device" section: 

```
Option "UseHotplugEvents" "false"
``` 
 
If your xorg.conf file is missing, there might be a renamed copy /etc/X11/xorg.conf.<date> which you can copy or rename back (or you might have one on a previous installation if any).
 
It’s described here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2243778](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2243778)
 
However, you may find that once it is all nice and stable that xorg.conf will unexpectedly vanish on you and become renamed xorg.conf.<date> again. I have been victim of this but have seen no other reports of it.  Making the file immutable was a super suggestion and has made it stable for some months now though.  See:
 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2251750](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2251750)
 
Best wishes!
Phil

---

### Post by langner on 2014-12-16
Phil,

Thanks for the replay. I will try it and post back my results as soon as I can. 

Matthew

---

### Post by langner on 2014-12-16
Hi,

I have tried to edit the xorg file but there is a problem. I can't find one in that location. The only one that I can find is in /usr/bin/ and I can't even open that, it just hangs on me. 

I have tried looking at the nvidia-x-sever-setting panel but it doesn't give me the option to add the code you posted, only to save the configuration file as a back up file. I have know idea where the original is? 

Any ideas what I can do as I'm really stuck now.

Thanks in advance once again, 

Matthew

---

### Post by khPWXxF on 2014-12-17
You did note the upper case X eleven  in /etc/X11/xorg.conf ?
I was stabbing in the dark rather at that stage (still am!) but my notes taken at the time are little more than a clue:
   > See:

  [http://www.gossamer-threads.com/lists/mythtv/users/570769](http://www.gossamer-threads.com/lists/mythtv/users/570769)
   
  “[I]create a configuration with nvidia-xconfig if you haven't done so, 
then add to the "Device" section: 
Option "UseHotplugEvents" "false" 
 
 [/I]
  I didn't do anything with CustomEDID
   
You will find the utility with 
```
locate nvidia-xconfig
```
It probably does not help but my xorg.conf is like this:
   ```
# xorg.conf is immutable and is protected from deletion by 'sudo chattr +i xorg.conf'
#  use 'sudo chattr -i xorg.conf' if you need to edit or remove it 
#  use 'sudo lsattr xorg.conf' to list attributes

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 304.117  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-01)  Tue Nov 26 22:29:40 PST 2013

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    Option         "UseHotPlugEvents"   "false"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection  

```  

The initial comments are a reminder added manually.
hth
  Phil

---

### Post by langner on 2014-12-17
Phil,

Thanks for getting back again. 

I have gone through the commands you have listed. A couple of things have happened, it now have an xorg.conf in /etc/X11/ and it does contain the text you would expect to see in it. Great. I have managed to edit and save the file in question with the edited line, option "*UseHotplugEvents*" "false". Another Great.  Done a restart, TV on and off but still the same result, no signal. I have also add the lines from this post which seems to be the same problem [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2250553 ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2250553")and still no joy. Not so Great. 

Again, I don't know what to do. ( This is becoming habit forming :( isn't it).

Thanks again for your help

Matthew

---

### Post by Lester_Burnham on 2014-12-17
Hi,
I thought I read a while ago that people were having issues with DKMS and rolled back to an earlier version, which still worked.

Might be this bug I was thiniking of. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-331/+bug/1308105](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-331/+bug/1308105)
Lester

---

### Post by langner on 2014-12-18
Hi Phil and Lester,

I'm not sure what has changed between my last post and this but it is now working as it should. And so with that I'm going to mark this post as solved. 

Thanks once again for your help.

Matthew

---

