---
title: "new 12.04 install (64-bit) - mythweb problems"
date: 2012-07-01
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by neutron68 on 2012-07-01
I'm helping a friend with a fresh install of Mythbuntu 12.04.

He got it all installed, and had Mythweb working, with the DHCP network settings.  The network address he was getting via DHCP was 192.168.0.177.
He wanted to have his box using a static IP address so I edited his /etc/network/interfaces file to set eth0 in static IP mode - 192.168.0.177.
That part seems to work ok.  We can ping 192.168.0.177 and get a response.  We can also connect out to the Net via a web browser.

Next I wanted to change the port that mythweb (apache2) uses.
I edited the /etc/apache2/ports.conf file.

I changed the 80s to 8181s in the file, like so:
```
NameVirtualHost *:80
Listen 80
```
to
```
NameVirtualHost *:8181
Listen 8181
```

At some point in the network changes, Mythweb stopped working.
I can't figure out why, as the apache2 settings in his 12.04 machine are the same as in my Mythbuntu 11.04 machine.

When we try to log into mythweb via a web browser, we get a message from apache2, so it appears that apache2 is running, but won't connect us to mythweb??

see [http://i870.photobucket.com/albums/ab264/neutron68/Mythbuntu_12-04/mythweb-apache2.jpg](http://i870.photobucket.com/albums/ab264/neutron68/Mythbuntu_12-04/mythweb-apache2.jpg)

When I try and manually restart the apache2 server, I see the following:
```

username@Mythbuntu:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
[sudo] password for username:
 * Restarting web server apache2                                                apache2: Could not reliably determine the server's fully qualified domain name, using 127.0.1.1 for ServerName
[Sun Jul 01 22:20:15 2012] [warn] NameVirtualHost *:8181 has no VirtualHosts
 ... waiting .apache2: Could not reliably determine the server's fully qualified domain name, using 127.0.1.1 for ServerName
[Sun Jul 01 22:20:17 2012] [warn] NameVirtualHost *:8181 has no VirtualHosts
                                                                         [ OK ]
```

Does anyone see anything obviously wrong here?
Is there a known problem with apache2 in 12.04?

Insight appreciated,
Eric

---

### Post by anonymousdog on 2012-07-02
You need a corresponding virtual host entry in sites-available/default-mythbuntu...says so right at the top of the ports.conf file you edited.

---

### Post by neutron68 on 2012-07-02
> **anonymousdog said:**
> You need a corresponding virtual host entry in sites-available/default-mythbuntu...says so right at the top of the ports.conf file you edited.
Thanks for the tip!  I missed that language in the ports.conf file.

I wonder when editing the default-mythbuntu file became manditory? 
I didn't have to edit the default-mythbuntu file in Mythbuntu 8, 9, 10 or 11, and mythweb worked fine with an alternate port number!

Thanks again,
Eric

---

### Post by anonymousdog on 2012-07-02
No idea.  Please mark this thread "Solved"

---

### Post by neutron68 on 2012-07-02
> **anonymousdog said:**
> No idea.  Please mark this thread "Solved"
NOT SO FAST!  I have not tested the change yet.  :)

Eric

---

### Post by neutron68 on 2012-07-02
That was it!  The mythweb problem with alternate port numbers is solved!  
Thanks for the hint, anonymousdog.

For those who have the same problem, I had to change the 80 to my desired port number (8181) in BOTH of these files:
/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/default-mythbuntu and 
/etc/apache2/ports.conf

After restarting apache2, mythweb worked on the desired port of 8181.
To restart apache2:  sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart

After doing all that, I happened to note that there is a /etc/apache2/sites-available/ directory.  
Inside that is another default-mythbuntu file.  Somehow that file also had my desired port number of 8181 in it, and I had not manually edited that file!  
Upon some further digging it looks like the /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/default-mythbuntu file is a symlink that points to the /etc/apache2/sites-available/default-mythbuntu file.  
I now think I could have edited the sites-enabled file in either directory, and this would have worked.

Eric

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2012-07-03
> **neutron68 said:**
> 
After doing all that, I happened to note that there is a /etc/apache2/sites-available/ directory.  
Inside that is another default-mythbuntu file.  Somehow that file also had my desired port number of 8181 in it, and I had not manually edited that file!  
Upon some further digging it looks like the /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/default-mythbuntu file is a symlink that points to the /etc/apache2/sites-available/default-mythbuntu file.  
I now think I could have edited the sites-enabled file in either directory, and this would have worked.

Eric

Yes, this is how apache works. All sites are listed in sites-available, and if want to enable one, you do 'a2ensite <sitename>' and it creates a simlink to the sites-enabled directory (conversly, you can do a 'a2dissite <sitename>' and it will remove the symlink, disabling the site)

---

### Post by anonymousdog on 2012-07-03
...in Debian-based distros.  I've never seen anything like that in Fedora/RedHat/CentOS.

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2012-07-04
> **anonymousdog said:**
> ...in Debian-based distros.  I've never seen anything like that in Fedora/RedHat/CentOS.

I stand corrected

---

### Post by anonymousdog on 2012-07-04
I think it's brilliant use of includes and symlinks.  I came to Ubuntu (for home use) after years of Red Hat admin (in business), and I much prefer the flexibility of the Debian Apache config scheme.  The superior modularity gives the admin a lot of flexibility.

Your post is the first I'd seen the a2*site tools; Very handy! 8)
I had always just created/removed the links directly. :neutral:

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2012-07-04
> **anonymousdog said:**
> I think it's brilliant use of includes and symlinks.  I came to Ubuntu (for home use) after years of Red Hat admin (in business), and I much prefer the flexibility of the Debian Apache config scheme.  The superior modularity gives the admin a lot of flexibility.

Your post is the first I'd seen the a2*site tools; Very handy! 8)
I had always just created/removed the links directly. :neutral:

Yep, they are pretty handy. There are also a2*mod tools that do the same thing for apache modules

---

