---
title: "8.04b - Out of range TV frequency"
date: 2008-04-11
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by aiw_2000 on 2008-04-11
Hi!

I've got a problem with a new install Mythbuntu 8.04b. I'm using an old Athlon 900MHz machine (with 512MB memory / 120GB HDD) to try the software out.

I'm using the Freecom DVB-T USB "stick" for the TV tuner, and this appears to have been recognised correctly both by the Linux OS and MythTv. I can scan the channels in the backend config tool, and the channels are duly stored in the database (I get BBC One, BBC Two, etc. in MythWeb for example).

However, when I load up the frontend on the same machine, and go to Live TV, nothing appears, and after some time I get a window saying that "TV should have appeared by now". Looking at dmesg, there is a line saying "[xxx.xxx] DVB: frontend 0 frequency 0 out of range (44250000..867250000)". I also cannot get the backend to record. I get the following error in mythbackend.log:

```
2008-04-11 18:16:03.258 DVBChan(1:0) Warning: Your frequency setting (0) is out of range. (min/max:44250000/867250000)
2008-04-11 18:16:03.264 DVBChan(1:0) Error: Tune(): Setting Frontend tuning parameters failed.
			eno: Invalid argument (22)
2008-04-11 18:16:03.267 DVBChan(1:0) Error: SetChannelByString(18): Tuning to frequency.
2008-04-11 18:16:03.268 TVRec(1) Error: Failed to set channel to 18. Reverting to kState_None
```

It appears as if the frequency hasn't been stored in the database, and it's just spitting out a null value. Does anyone have any idea what's causing this?

Regards,
aiw_2000

---

### Post by thehandyman33 on 2008-07-18
I'm seeing EXACTLY the same issue, on 8.04 with an HVR-1250 card.  The channels show up fine in the back end, they are detected, but the front end displays nothing and these same errors show up in the log.

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2008-07-18
Hi,

What are the frequencies saved in the MySQL database? I had to manually correct the frequency in the channels table using MythWeb.

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by propagandhi on 2008-08-20
Ian, how did you manually change the frequency table?

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2008-08-20
Hi,

I just manually entered them through mythweb.

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by jp08 on 2008-11-20
```

Nov 20 21:00:15 buntu kernel: [ 2590.132667] dvb-usb: MSI Mega Sky 580 DVB-T USB2.0 successfully initialized and connected.
Nov 20 21:04:15 buntu kernel: [ 4029.605593] DVB: frontend 0 frequency 2147483647 out of range (174000000..860000000)
```

Any ideas ? The channels were populated by the UK's Freeview EIT so why the frequency issue?

---

### Post by My Name on 2008-12-16
I have the same problem with my Freecom dvb-t usb stick
...so.... bump!

---

### Post by michaelrmgreen on 2009-02-19
I'm also having the same problem with two different revisions of the Freecom stick. Any luck? TIA

---

### Post by amar on 2009-04-23
Bump

The usb tv card works fine with kaffine, just not with mythtv

Does anyone know if a bug already exists or should I open one?

Thanks
Alistair

---

