---
title: "11.10 0.24 fixes will only restart, not shutdown"
date: 2012-03-20
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by jim.hitch on 2012-03-20
Hi

I'm using 0.24 fixes and ever since a couple of weeks ago my frontend won't shutdown, it'll only ever restart itself. 

So, if I select shutdown it restarts. This means that I have to force it off, which of course causes trouble on a restart because, I suppose, it hasn't shutdown properly. 

Therefore I have other issues, including the shutdown hanging even before it can get to a stage where it can restart, as well as various mouse issues on the desktop and the backend sometimes failing to start. I figure these may be connected to frontend not shutting itself down.

Does anyone have any idea why / how this could have happened, and how I can find out how to deal with / fix this issue?

Much obliged.

Jim

---

### Post by goffa on 2012-03-27
I had this problem as well, are you using mythwelcome? After viewing my logs I found it was sending a restart command.

From the mythwelcome screen, press F11, and change the command to reboot to be the same as the one to shutdown. You should make a note of your reboot command as this is really only a temporary solution until this is fixed.

---

### Post by jim.hitch on 2012-03-29
> **goffa said:**
> I had this problem as well, are you using mythwelcome? After viewing my logs I found it was sending a restart command.

From the mythwelcome screen, press F11, and change the command to reboot to be the same as the one to shutdown. You should make a note of your reboot command as this is really only a temporary solution until this is fixed.

Thanks for the reply. I only use mythwelcome on the backend, so you're saying that the backend, without being updated, has changed it's setting to this? Or did I have it installed on the frontend without realising!

I'll investigate when I get a chance.

Thanks.

---

### Post by nickrout on 2012-03-29
Try using the halt command (you will probably need to sudo it) and see if you get any useful feedback.```
sudo halt
```

---

### Post by jim.hitch on 2012-04-15
> **goffa said:**
> I had this problem as well, are you using mythwelcome? After viewing my logs I found it was sending a restart command.

From the mythwelcome screen, press F11, and change the command to reboot to be the same as the one to shutdown. You should make a note of your reboot command as this is really only a temporary solution until this is fixed.

Hi

Have finally got around to having a look at this. Mythwelcome/shutdown is on my frontend, but not sure it's used as it doesn't show up in the system monitor. However, I did what you suggested, but it hasn't worked. Boo.

---

### Post by jim.hitch on 2012-04-15
> **nickrout said:**
> Try using the halt command (you will probably need to sudo it) and see if you get any useful feedback.```
sudo halt
```

Hi

Finally had time to try this, but the screen goes straight into shutdown mode, so I don't get any feedback. Where would I look for it in a log file?

Thanks in advance.

---

