---
title: "[10.04] - ATI 5770 - no installation at all ... black screen"
date: 2010-05-24
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by parc on 2010-05-24
I now did some tests with Mythbuntu 10.04. I've a working 10.04 backend server under my roof (which seems to work, but after update from 9.10 to 10.04 I had no running desktop any more ...) - and wanted to try the cd-based frontend on my main machine: AMD Quad-Core, ATI 5770 graphics cards - but even installation is not possible: the only stuff I get after booting from the "try-out" CD is a black screen .... :( monitor is showing no signal ...

parc

---

### Post by yippy on 2010-05-26
I had the same issue with my 5770, it turned out to be which DVI port I was plugged into.  I switch ports and then REBOOTED, and then I had a desktop.  I didn't have a display until after a reboot.

---

### Post by clubkut on 2010-05-26
I am experiencing the **exact** same issues as OP.

---

### Post by SMANN on 2010-05-26
Some variant of bug described here.  ATI driver failing when confronted with Kernel mode switching.  Happening with a large number of ATI,Intel & Nvidia cards.    [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes)   [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1463294](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1463294)   [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466337](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466337)    I can only comment on the fix for Nvidia which is what I have.  I'll detail in a later post for reference but I had to boot w/ X using 'vesa' driver and then apply all the updates.  The latest Nvidia proprietary driver (195) can then be applied and seems to work.  Not sure if there is a newer ATI driver so you may be forced to set grub to disable KMS as described in links above.

---

### Post by parc on 2010-05-26
In the meantime I think, that the 10.04 is the most worst Mythbuntu version I have used so far. My updated 9.10 server has to be rebooted yesterday evening after running for one day and actually reboot failed ... with black screen.

Now I'm desperatly trying to install the 10.04 version on this system and it simply fails more or less often after reboot - normally with a blank screen. I've switched the graphic card from ATI to Matrox just to use stable software - but sorry to say: this software has lots of problems ....

> **parc said:**
> I now did some tests with Mythbuntu 10.04. I've a working 10.04 backend server under my roof (which seems to work, but after update from 9.10 to 10.04 I had no running desktop any more ...) - and wanted to try the cd-based frontend on my main machine: AMD Quad-Core, ATI 5770 graphics cards - but even installation is not possible: the only stuff I get after booting from the "try-out" CD is a black screen .... :( monitor is showing no signal ...

parc

---

### Post by MikeyOT on 2010-09-30
I have posted about this problem elsewhere and have never found a working solution. I switched from Suse at the time of Kubuntu 9.04 and was fine with that and 9.10.  Problems started when I switchewd my nVidia 9800 for an ATi HD5770.  FYI I get the same black screen installation problem with Mint Linux too - I get the cycling blue/white dots and then a black screen and then my monitor exhibits a lack of signal.  Never got to the bottom of it.  I did manage to install 10.04 eventually by upgrading from 9.10, although that did not work first time, and now just have problems every time there is a KPackage fglrx upgrade.  I usually switch to VESA mode in X11 and go to the AMD site and load the new drivers from there.  However, with the latest AMD/ATi upgrade there is another problem with amdcccle and I have had to revert to the kubuntu-provided fglrx, which has very slow compositing.

The HD5770 is the first ATi card I have used for years, never having had any installation or upgrade problems with nVidia. I am now considering replacing the 5770 with a better and much more expensive nVidia card :(  having bought the 5770 for its bangs per buck.  Saddest of all, I have no problems with the ATi card in Windows 7.

---

