---
title: "Issues when hooking up my HDTV"
date: 2010-10-30
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by ajheiks on 2010-10-30
Just downloaded Mythbuntu 10.10 for my HTPC.  Previously I had windows 7 on this system and was looking for something a little better.

Here's my issue.  When I first set up the OS i was using an old CRT monitor and had no issues at all.  So then I hook it up to my TV and this is what I get:

[IMG]http://oi52.tinypic.com/25sws5x.jpg[/IMG]

The screen scrolls from bottom to top with a slight flicker, not to mention the giant black bar running from top to bottom in the middle of the screen.

I have a GeForce FX 5200 Ultra and a Hitachi 46F500 connected via a DVI cable (DVI out on the Video card and DVI in on the TV)



Any help would be greatly appreciated.  Thanks guys!

---

### Post by confused57 on 2010-10-30
On my Samsung 52" LCD HDTV, I have to set the TV to "Just Scan", in order to prevent overscan from my pc connected via HDMI.  Don't know if this is a related issue you're having?

---

### Post by ajheiks on 2010-10-31
Well at this point overscan is the least of my issues.  Its a rear projection CRT (quite a dinosaur in the HDTV world) so that's going to be a small hurdle in itself.  I think I'll try putting my monitor back on it and making sure I have the proper nvidia driver on it.  The backend is having the same issue as the front end, so whatever the problem is, its across the board.


IDK, I'll keep poking at it and see if I can get anywhere with it, in the meantime tho, if anyone has any suggestions they are more than welcome.

---

### Post by pu15e on 2010-10-31
Since you're using a digital connection to the TV (although this info usually also applies to D-SUB (15-pin VGA cables)), have you tried turning the TV on then re/booting the PC (after deleting your xorg.conf file)?

We recently acquired an LG 37" LCD TV. We originally had an 80cm CRT at that station and a matching xorg.conf file. When the TV was first installed, I simply pulled the SVHS link from between the PC and old TV and installed the DVI cable for the new one. Of course, it didn't work. We rebooted the machine and, of course, the resolution / scan, etc were all set up still for the old TV. Removed xorg.conf and rebooted - after a quick auto-adjust on the panel, all was good.

We then rebooted the machine again a few days later while the TV was off. That resulted in a totally wrong resolution, so I turned the TV on and rebooted again, and voila!

It's not a big concern to us, as the PC at that TV is also the MBE for our network and, thus, rarely gets rebooted. I suppose if things were different, though, I could just re-write an xorg.conf or even just run nvidia-settings and get it to write an appropriate rc file...

Anyhoo, hope the information helps :-)

Cheers,
 Mattt.

---

### Post by ajheiks on 2010-10-31
couldn't find xorg.conf

just for giggles, I booted off the install disk and at first it looked like i was good, but then the second loading screen came up (the one with the 5 dots) and my problem was back.  Dunno if that tells us anything or not.  When I had Win 7 on this box the only issue (besides it being windows) was some pretty bad overscan.

At this point I'm not opposed to upgrading parts of my HTPC because I was already planning on getting something better suited for the job than this ancient thing I have now.

Might I have better luck (still want to use the DVI in on my TV mind you) with a different/better supported video card?

---

### Post by LowSky on 2010-10-31
on the TV check the settings for video settings. if your using an nvidia card go to nvidia settings and go to X server display configuration and adjust the resolution and the other settings form there

xorg is found here:

/etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by ajheiks on 2010-11-01
is there an xorg.conf in 10.10?  I looked in that folder and still nothing.

My TV is pretty limited on its options, so I'm hoping that the nvidia settings has what I need.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2010-11-01
yeah im pretty sure...nvidia-xconifg will make one when you install the proprietary driver, here is mine.

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@yellow)  Fri Apr  9 11:51:21 UTC 2010

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Thu Apr 22 20:35:23 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" RightOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "HSD HW191D"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     49.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "VIZ VX37L HDTV10A"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 85.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "Unknown"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "Unknown"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by ajheiks on 2010-11-07
OK, problem 1 fixed.  I got a wireless card so I can properly install the nvidia driver and update the OS.  And wouldn't ya know... xorg.conf magically showed up when I did that XD  I also tried deleting it like suggested and it wouldnt let me.

Now I have 2 other issues.  Overscan, and the frontend not being full screen.  The frontend is stuck in the upper left corner and only takes up about 25% of my TV, showing the ubuntu desktop in the other 75%.  I tried using the screen size manager thing (the one where you move the little corner brackets to the limits of your screen... didnt help, because once it got outside the area of the myth frontend I couldn't see the lower right bracket.  I don't know if I screwed something up when I couldn't see what I was dong before or not, because when I first installed the OS it looked perfect on my CRT monitor.

---

### Post by nickrout on 2010-11-07
> **ajheiks said:**
> OK, problem 1 fixed.  I got a wireless card so I can properly install the nvidia driver and update the OS.  And wouldn't ya know... xorg.conf magically showed up when I did that XD  I also tried deleting it like suggested and it wouldnt let me.

Now I have 2 other issues.  Overscan, and the frontend not being full screen.  The frontend is stuck in the upper left corner and only takes up about 25% of my TV, showing the ubuntu desktop in the other 75%.  I tried using the screen size manager thing (the one where you move the little corner brackets to the limits of your screen... didnt help, because once it got outside the area of the myth frontend I couldn't see the lower right bracket.  I don't know if I screwed something up when I couldn't see what I was dong before or not, because when I first installed the OS it looked perfect on my CRT monitor.

you probably have myth setup to run windowed instead of full screen. Can't recall exactly where in the settings this is.

---

### Post by pu15e on 2010-11-08
Try running nvidia-settings (from System | Preferences, by default on Mythbuntu). Go to it's X Server Display Configuration page and make sure the display is being driven at it's native resolution (which you may find either in the supplied documentation or somewhere on the Interwebs).

It should be easy to set up and work well as you're connecting via DVI...

Cheers,
 Mattt.

---

### Post by ajheiks on 2010-11-08
OK, overscan update.  My screen resolution is set to 1920 x 1080 which is the largest available setting, and the one I'm assuming to be correct, given that the TV is 1080i.  I've heard mention of a slider somewhere in the nvidia settings to correct overscan, and I also saw that at some point nvidia removed that feature?  Is there an easy to use utility that will do this same thing?  I'm kind of a noob when it comes to linux so whenever I see ppl's xorg.conf files I have no idea what I'm looking at.  I wish I knew a little more about them, because it sounds like you can edit it to create any resolution you can dream of, and with a little tinkering, fix the overscan.  Am I correct with my assumptions?

Update on "windowed mode".  Probably screwed this up using the Screen Setup Wizard, to fix this, I went to Setup->Appearance->Screen Settings and zero'd out all the values for GUI width/height/offset.  This forces the frontend to use the same resolution settings as the backend.  So once I figure out my overscan issue, it will fix the frontend at the same time.

---

### Post by nickrout on 2010-11-08
overscan is a perpetual problem. the best way to fix it is if your TV has an exact scan, or pixel perfect, or similarly named setting. Given whatyou have said about your set not having many options, it may not have the setting. See here too [http://pixelmapping.wikispaces.com/](http://pixelmapping.wikispaces.com/) - there is a list of tv's and what people know about getting rid of overscan.

Second option would be to use the setting in nvidia-settings - you are right there is a slider. I wasn't aware of them doing away with it - it's not so long since they introduced it!

Third option would be to use myth's settings to let it run the gui at a different res to the playback, then you keep the gui within bounds and put up with overscan on playback (which is probably how the broadcaster intended it).

---

### Post by ajheiks on 2010-11-09
I also read some where that the slider is only in dirvers version 190.x and higher.  The most recent release for my card is 173.1428.  So that might be why i dont have one?  I've seen screenshots of the slider, so I know exactly what to look for now and its definitely not there.  

Then there's this from nvnews.net
 > Not all GPUs can perform overscan compensation at all modes. It depends on the internal bandwidth of various parts of the GPU. It appears that your TV mode can't be scaled on that GPU due to hardware limitations. I apologize for the inconvenience.  

Can I use a newer driver that isn't "for my card" or is it time to upgrade?

---

### Post by LowSky on 2010-11-09
what resolution are you using?

also check you cable to make sure they are attached properly

---

### Post by nickrout on 2010-11-09
> **ajheiks said:**
> I also read some where that the slider is only in dirvers version 190.x and higher.  The most recent release for my card is 173.1428.  So that might be why i dont have one?  I've seen screenshots of the slider, so I know exactly what to look for now and its definitely not there.  

Then there's this from nvnews.net
   

Can I use a newer driver that isn't "for my card" or is it time to upgrade?

scanning back through the thread I see you are using a 5200 card, whicch is now quite old (although it used to be the bees knees card for mythtv). 

The 173 driver is the latest for that card. I strongly suggest you read the nvidia readme, its accessible by:

```
zless /usr/share/doc/nvidia-current/README.txt.gz
```

---

