---
title: "8.10 beta issues"
date: 2008-10-24
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by jboehm on 2008-10-24
I'm having two issues under 8.10 beta.

1) Eject -- If a disk is in the tray, selecting eject from the myth menu eject the disk then brings it back in again.

2) Very unstable DVD playback.  Some disks play fine but here are two example of problems I'm having.  I've check my dvd drives region code and I've made sure that I have libdvdnav and the ~w32~ lib installed.
  a) Pirates of the Caribbean 1 -- disk shows the FBI warning page then freezes.  I have to kill the frontend to regain control.  I've attached the mythfrontend.log for this attempt.
  b) Dexter Season 1 Disk 1 -- FBI then Showtime promo then drop back to mythfrontend

Thanks,
Jon

---

### Post by jboehm on 2008-10-24
Updates ON:
1) Eject: This is an Intrepid Ibex wide problem not just Mythbuntu 8.10
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...ct/+bug/280931](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...ct/+bug/280931)
Work around I found: hit eject, let it eject the disk, let it take it back in again, hit eject again and it will eject the disk and leave it out.

2) DVD Play: Mplayer, Xine, and VLC all play POC fine.  I uninstalled libdvdcss thru the control center, POC actually played better.  It wasn't watchable because it looked scrambled but it actually made it to the main menu before freezing. Could this be that Myth was built with old versions of some of these libs and has not been updated for 8.10 in a while?  I'm looking forward to weekly .21-fixed builds.

Thanks,
Jon

---

### Post by jdeslip on 2009-02-16
You ever fix your problem with the DVD freezing on FBI warning pages?  I have this happening on quite a few dvds.  I can work  around it by going to chapters and starting with the first chapter...  But, it is not ideal.

---

### Post by jboehm on 2009-02-16
Nope, this is an on going issue.  Here is the Mythtv bug report.
[http://svn.mythtv.org/trac/ticket/5630](http://svn.mythtv.org/trac/ticket/5630)
I suggest subscribing to the bug report.  Maybe we can raise the exposure of this bug and it might get fixed.  I don't understand how this can go unfixed for this long.

---

