---
title: "[8.04] PVR-350 TV Out not working"
date: 2008-03-07
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by BenFranske on 2008-03-07
I just did a clean install of Mythbuntu 8.04 alpha 3 on a system with a PVR-350 and have not yet been able to get the TV out working on the 350 and am looking for suggestions.

I've based my attempts thus far off the instructions for Gusty on the Ubuntu wiki but I am unable to locate an ivtv_fb module to load. I did a little poking around online and did find mention of ivtv_fb being taken out of the Ubuntu modules package because of some kind of bug. Can anyone enlighten me as to the situation?

I've also done some searching for generic information on the itvtv_fb module in Hardy and come up with essentially no other information.

Thanks!

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-03-09
Hi,

For 8.04, the kernel module got renamed.  I just heard about this myself.

It's now ivtvfb.

---

### Post by BenFranske on 2008-03-10
Thanks, that worked great and I was essentially able to follow the same directions as for 7.10 with the new module name. Things appear to be working but I haven't thoroughly tested them yet.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-03-10
> **BenFranske said:**
> Thanks, that worked great and I was essentially able to follow the same directions as for 7.10 with the new module name. Things appear to be working but I haven't thoroughly tested them yet.
Since you've got the hardware - 
Do you happen to also have a spare hard drive you can use temporarily?

When we announce our next alpha disk, there should be support in the installer to choose the pvr-350 off the bat during install.  Could you test it?

---

### Post by BenFranske on 2008-03-10
Yes, I'd be happy to do this. Please send me a note when this feature is available for testing and I'll try it out.

---

