---
title: "9.04 Diskless MCC crashes/problems"
date: 2009-05-25
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by walterdf00 on 2009-05-25
I'm having trouble using the MCC to set up my diskless client.  I have a backend PC running Mythbuntu 9.04.   I did a fresh install this morning.   The client boots using the i386 image built by the host's MCC; I can connect to the database and even play my old recordings.

The first problem showed up when I tried to enable automatic login for the client.   I went to the "Diskless Server" tab and opened the client's Control Centre from the button there.   When I went to the "Artwork & Login Behavior" tab, enabled automatic login, and clicked Apply the MCC would hang and complain about not finding a .dmrc file.   I created [bug report #380061]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mythbuntu-control-centre/+bug/380061") for this problem.   As the bug report says, creating a .dmrc file using the terminal in the client's MCC allowed the process to complete, but the client still does not log in automatically.

I have also run into problems while trying to enable other Myth features in the client's MCC.   When I go to the Plugins tab, enable MythMusic, and click Apply the MCC's Control Centre Progress bar hangs at "Installing and Removing packages...".    Expanding the "Installation Details" shows nothing.   After a while I Cntrl+C'd it.   I attached the output from the shell for all of this.   After the Cntrl+C I go back to the host's MCC.   From there I can Open Terminal in the Client Maintenance  section with no problem.   I can also re-open the client's MCC, go to Advanced  Management, and Launch Terminal from there with no problem, either.

Any ideas?   I will update if I can figure it out or notice any other clues.

---

### Post by arrkerr on 2009-06-01
Same exact problems here.  Launching the control center and trying to do anything just about always causes a lock up, usually on "installing and removing packages".

Same problem with the automatic login as well, on a number of machines.

Sure is frustrating.

---

### Post by Verzweifler on 2009-06-02
Same here on a 9.04 64bit Mythbuntu... 
CPU is at 100% and the "Installing and Removing packages..." windows is sitting there after I updated the set of mythtv-components in MCC

Some more infos:
My mainboard is a ASRock AliveDual-eSATA2 running a 64-bit Mythbuntu 9.04 backend server. 
The image I was trying to modify is intended for use by an i386-diskless client. I could open a chroot-terminal via MCC and was able to manually install the packages required. 
I just used the MCC to identify the packages by checking them on the GUI and hitting "Apply", but I cancelled out the dialog, opened the terminal an installed them via apt-get... Afterwards I "committed" my changes and it worked. But it is a pain in the neck, because it is uncomfortable and it applies to diskless AMD64 images as well...

---

### Post by walterdf00 on 2009-06-10
I submitted this issue as a bug when I posted here originally (#380061 on bugs.launchpad.net).  Mario's feedback on there says that it is a known bug with a fix released in the 0.50 version which will be included in karmic.  

Sounds good to me.

In the meantime I'll try using the command-line approach as in this post:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV/Install/Hardy/Diskless](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV/Install/Hardy/Diskless)

---

### Post by jimp180 on 2009-06-13
Sooooo, I guess I spent most of my Saturday morning trying to get this to work for nothing! Well I I do have an image made that I can't add any plugins to but then that doesn't matter since I can't figure out how boot to it from a client using a separate dhcp server anyway. I'm not sure the tftp server part is even working on my machine and I can't seem to find any info on it.
sorry about ranting, I really just posted in hopes that one more person interested in this working might help it become something more than "low priority"
Oh well, I will go back to using the tftp server on my secondary backend serving minimyth frontends to my clients for now.

---

### Post by walterdf00 on 2009-06-13
jimp180, I've been adding plugins and making adjustments to my image using the steps in the link I posted.  It's not quite as simple as it would be if the GUI was working, but it's getting me there.  If you post specifics of your configuration I'd be happy to compare against mine.

---

### Post by jimp180 on 2009-06-14
well here's a new twist to my problems, I went to the bug report that you submitted and saw that under status it had a fix released. I then installed the mythbuntu fixes repo and updated. now I have an updated MCC with the tabs on the left instead of the right. I have no Diskless server tab, and although diskless server at the bottom of the system roles tab is there and the box is checked, it is all grayed out. so I am assuming that the fix was "it's broke so let's just get rid of it"!

I am not using the dhcp server since I already use one on the network, the server files were created and are still there for the network boot. I setup my dhcp server using my mythtv master server's IP address as the next-server with pxelinux.0 as the file name and /var/lib/tftpboot/ltsp/i386 as the root path (since that is the path to pxelinux.0) but when I try to boot the client I get a "file not found" error.

some how after installing the diskless server stuff it screwed up my nfs exports. I noticed after I went back to my minimyth frontends that my screen saver was not working (my frontends run a screensaver that is a slide show of pictures hosted on the mastewr backend). the diskless setup appended bogus info to the last export in my exports file that caused it to error and not restart, at least that is what I assume happened since it wouldn't start untill I disabled the export with the appended info. I wonder what your /etc/exports file looks like?

mine did look like this```
/storage/recordings    *(ro,async,no_root_squash,no_subtree_check)
/storage/videos    *(ro,async,no_root_squash,no_subtree_check)
/storage/videos/rip    *(rw,async,no_root_squash,no_subtree_check)
/storage/pictures    *(ro,async,no_root_squash,no_subtree_check)
/storage/games	*(ro,async,no_root_squash,no_subtree_check)
```
but now has this ```
/var/cache/mythbuntu-diskless/overlay/ 192.168.0.0/24(async,no_root_squash,no_subtree_check,rw)
```Appended to the end of the last line, I am betting this was supposed to get written as a line on its own.

---

### Post by walterdf00 on 2009-06-14
Here is what my exports looks like.

```
/var/lib/mythtv/recordings    *(ro,async,no_root_squash,no_subtree_check)
/var/lib/mythtv/videos    *(ro,async,no_root_squash,no_subtree_check)
/var/lib/mythtv/music    *(ro,async,no_root_squash,no_subtree_check)
/var/lib/mythtv/pictures    *(ro,async,no_root_squash,no_subtree_check)
/var/cache/mythbuntu-diskless/overlay/ 192.168.123.100/24(rw,no_root_squash,async,no_subtree_check)
```I set up a dhcp server on my mythbackend box.  mal straightened out with some of the PXE stuff in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1139397").  Not sure if it applies to your situation or not.

---

### Post by jimp180 on 2009-06-14
I read the link you you posted above about installing diskless server in hardy and from it I found the proper setup of my dhcp server (in /usr/share/doc/ltps.....), so I now have my image booting.I still have problems though, on one frontend I can get it to boot to the gdm and login to the mythbuntu desktop but for some reason I can't get the frontend running on it. It starts ok but when I input my mysql info and hit finish it returns me to the desktop, then when I start the frontend again it is as if I never input the info and I start all over again. on the other frontend it never boots that far, It gets past the blue tooth stuff and freeing the kernel memory then it just stalls at "loading please wait". It doesn't load far enough to create a $key folder in "overlay" so I don't even have a file system to search the logs on.

---

### Post by walterdf00 on 2009-06-27
If you start your frontend from a terminal (by running mythfrontend) what do you see there?

I had a lot of trouble getting my frontend to log into my backend DB at first.  I keep a blog so I can remember how I fixed past problems.  See if this post helps any.  [http://wacoblog.fordweb.net/2009/04/split-myth.html](http://wacoblog.fordweb.net/2009/04/split-myth.html)

---

### Post by walterdf00 on 2009-08-05
Here's a quick update on my progress for this project since I haven't had time to work it consistently.  I had trouble getting everything installed on the diskless server, so for $75 I got a solid-state hard drive from newegg.com and installed a frontend on there.

Everything went smoothly for the first bit.  I had a problem with jerky video that stumped me for a while.  The fix ended up being to set the Playback Profile to CPU--.  (The symptom was a periodic "prebuffering pause" error on the frontend.)  That profile allowed it to use XvMC.

I'm using openchrome, and I also added the xorg.conf settings mentined here:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=478229]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=478229").  I'd be interested to know if anyone gets diskless working on this (or similar) platform.

---

### Post by mitchell2345 on 2009-08-10
man i wish someone would find a fix for this.  so frustrating.  I somethings in the diskless MCC work but some dont.

Mitchell

---

### Post by laga on 2009-08-13
Sorry to hear you're having so much trouble.

Regarding the new mythbuntu-control-centre: yes, there is no -diskless plugin currently. I'm working on that.

> I then installed the mythbuntu fixes repo and updated. now I have an updated MCC with the tabs on the left instead of the right. 

You probably enabled the testing repository. Current stable versions of Mythbuntu all come with the diskless tab.

For any other problems, please file a bug report at [http://bugs.launchpad.net/mythbuntu](http://bugs.launchpad.net/mythbuntu) - that way, someone will look at your problems. Just complaining in the forums likely won't be noticed (by me) :)

---

