---
title: "9.10 program guide very slow"
date: 2010-03-04
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by laffinet on 2010-03-04
Hi !

I've recently upgraded (fresh install) to 9.10 and noticed that the program guide is painfully slow.

Scrolling horizontally is kind of ok (much slower than in 9.04 though), but scrolling vertically is just out of this world, to the point where I don't want to use it.

Doesn't matter if I go beyond the channels currently displayed (thus changing the channels that are currently displayed), or just go up and down 1 channel.

Also doesn't matter if it is during liveTV or via scheduling recordings.

I also only have about 10 channels (Australia), with 7-8 days of guide data.

I didn't find many options to change the guide display, tried the few I found but nothing helped.

Google didn't bring up anything helpful either.

Any ideas ?

PS My graphics card is a 9400GT, running VDPAU.

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2010-03-04
Hi,

Do you have channel icons installed for all you channels?

 There is a problem with the epg that if you have a channel icon defined for a channel but mythfrontend can't read the file for some reason (permissions/file doesn't exist), the frontend sits for a age trying to read the same icon over and over again.

So check if all the channels that have a icon actually display the icon.

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by laffinet on 2010-03-05
Fantastic !

You were spot on. Channel editor in the mythbackend setup was still pointing to the icons I had installed as part of my 9.04 setup, but I hadn't actually copied the icons into the appropriate folder.

Done that and the guide is responsive again.

Thanks a lot.

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2010-03-06
Hi,

Glad to be of service.

This error took me along time to find/fix on my frontend.

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

