---
title: "[8.04] Mythbuntu-diskless: issues with chroot"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Verzweifler on 2008-04-30
Hi folks,

the MCC (tab "Diskless Server") when selecting a diskless image and hitting the "Control Centre" craps on me with an error message saying there is no MCC in the chroot...

> "*Sorry, I couldn't find mythbuntu-control-centre in the chroot!*"

I decided to open a new thread, since the "Diskless Testers Wanted!" thread gets a little bit overloaded...

Following laga's advice, I successfully installed mythbuntu-control-centre from the hardy-proposed repository.
```

michael@mythserver:~$ apt-cache policy mythbuntu-control-centre
mythbuntu-control-centre:
  Installed: 0.28-0ubuntu1~hardy1
  Candidate: 0.28-0ubuntu1~hardy1
  Version table:
 *** 0.28-0ubuntu1~hardy1 0
        500 http://archive.ubuntu.com hardy-proposed/universe Packages

        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status
     0.27-0ubuntu1 0
        500 http://archive.ubuntu.com hardy/universe Packages

```

To make sure that nothing is forgotten, I removed diskless-server (MCC tab "System Roles", and yes, I hit the "Apply" button to actually perform the action ;) ) and re-added it. I also ran 
```
dpkg-reconfigure mythbuntu-control-centre
``` and 
```
dpkg-reconfigure mythbuntu-diskless-server
```

I deleted the image that was still sitting there using the MCC, verified using mc that it actually was gone, and kicked of a new build. The progress bar ("Building diskless immage") appeared as expected and the usual process began. About half of the progress bar was complete, when "Configuring mythbuntu-diskless-client..." was displayed and the process instantanuously entered the "LTSP Setup Done..." phase and soon after returned to the MCC GUI.

Selecting the newly created image in the "Client Maintenance" section and hitting "Control Centre" yield the above error message. 

The message itself, however, is just correct since there is no such thing as mythbuntu* in the chroot, which I verfied by simply opening a terminal in the chroot and looking for it... 

For me it looks like the build-process just forgets to copy the respective files... Or what else can be wrong??? :confused:

laga, Master of MCC, please help!

Thanks guys


Michael

---

### Post by laga on 2008-04-30
Superm1 is the master of MCC, I'm just one of the minions ;)

Yes, it looks like the creation of the chroot ended prematurly. Can you try to run the following command:

```

MCC_DEBUG=true sudo -E /usr/share/mythbuntu-control-centre/bin/mythbuntu-control-centre
```

and show me the output? You can redirect the output to a file by appending "> mylogfile.txt" to the end of the command.

I'm quite unhappy that it's broken for so many people. Let's fix it :)

---

### Post by Verzweifler on 2008-04-30
Hi laga,

please find attached the gzipped logfile created. 

I had a short look into it, and I found out that only the very last entries might be of interest, since the process looked fine until it hit the 
```

[...]
Need to get 355MB of archives.
After this operation, 1031MB of additional disk space will be used.
WARNING: The following packages cannot be authenticated!
libavutil1d libavcodec1d libavformat1d libswscale1d ffmpeg libpostproc1d
error: LTSP client installation ended abnormally

```

The "Need to get..." message is actually the last thing the flickers on the progress bar before the "LTSP Setup" thing appears way too early...

Hope this helped to get that stuff fixed. 

I am about to migrate my whole system from KnoppMyth (R5E50) to Mythbuntu mainly because of MCC and the nice way to handle diskless clients... 
I also have an S100-box with zenslack (and mythtv-plugin) waiting to connect to mythtv0.21... So let's get ready to rumble! :)

---

### Post by laga on 2008-04-30
I think you need to check the "allow unauthenticated packages" checkbox in MCC (in the diskless tab).

Let me know if it works :)

---

### Post by Verzweifler on 2008-04-30
That checkbox had been checked all the times... Sorry, it is not that easy, I suppose ;)

---

### Post by laga on 2008-04-30
Ok, can you show me your /etc/apt/sources.list then?

---

### Post by Verzweifler on 2008-04-30
I found a way out (at least it looks like something that might work)

In my desperation I made a clean install of Mythbuntu 8.04 within a VM and tried to build a diskless image in there. It worked! :-o 

So I googled for the error message (Damn! I should have considered that earlier) and found a first hint telling me that the packages stated in the message obviously all belong to Medibuntu (and are BAD because of licensing, legal, blabla stuff). 

First thought: Ah, I just forgot to add Medibuntu's GPG key, so they cannot be authenticated... False alert, it still would not work outside the VM.

So I removed the medibuntu-stuff from my /etc/apt/sources.list and removed the packages in question with apt-get. Afterwards (and obviously after apt-get update) I reinstalled them now using only the standard ubuntu-repositories.

Let me tell you: it seems to work. 

However, there is one remaining question: What will happen if I ever decided to include Medibuntu proprietary codecs again...??? :confused: Any ideas, laga?

---

### Post by Verzweifler on 2008-04-30
> **laga said:**
> Ok, can you show me your /etc/apt/sources.list then?

Looks like you read my mind... :lolflag:

Still interested ? Here it is:

```
# deb cdrom:[Mythbuntu 8.04 alpha4 i386]/ hardy main restricted universe
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy-updates main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy-security main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy-backports main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy-proposed main restricted universe multiverse
deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy-updates main restricted universe multiverse
deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy universe multiverse main restricted
deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy-backports main restricted universe multiverse
deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy-proposed main restricted universe multiverse
deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy-security main restricted universe multiverse

# deb http://packages.medibuntu.org/ hardy free non-free

```

I think, the last line again is the important one...

---

### Post by laga on 2008-05-01
Hi,

I've found the problem: a simple typo prevent the "allow unsigned checkbox" from being applied :(

Can you try this deb: [http://laga.ath.cx/mythbuntu-control-centre_0.28-0ubuntu1~hardy2_all.deb](http://laga.ath.cx/mythbuntu-control-centre_0.28-0ubuntu1~hardy2_all.deb)

I've also added an error message which will pop up if ltsp-build-client fails.

---

### Post by Verzweifler on 2008-05-01
Hi laga,

thanks for the effort. I already installed the .deb via dpkg, but the Ubuntu servers currently seem to be down or at least a bit slow. 
As a result, the build process is not really starting, and when I say "sudo apt-get update" on the command-line, it takes ages before something starts moving... which normally is fast as ligthning ;-) 

Maybe later today, ok?

---

### Post by Verzweifler on 2008-05-01
Ok, the servers are up again... 

I re-added the Medibuntu stuff to /etc/apt/sources.list and was able to build a diskless image without any errors (of course, as usual, I checked "allow unsigned packages").

Thanks a lot, laga! I will now check whether my remote machines boot properly, so I can complete my migration from KnoppMyth to Mythbuntu.

laga, you're my hero! You made my day!

---

