---
title: "9.10RC Coverart... HTML Redirects?"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by jMon54 on 2009-10-30
I just installed 9.10 RC on my box and it works great with just one tiny little problem.  The coverart and fanart is not getting downloaded for my videos.  The frontend log says something about an "HTML redirect" being the reason.  Anyone know what that means?  I checked to ensure mythtv had permissions to all of the folders that were automatically set up and indeed I did have to modify them.  But still same results.

---

### Post by jMon54 on 2009-11-01
I am still struggling with this issue.  I have tried changing permissions and using different folders.  But whenever I run the script to download movie posters and fanart I get something like this:

"Coverart download finished: Tried to write /var/lib/mythtv/posters/0844286_coverart.jpg, but it appears to be an HTML redirect (filesize 0). 1"

I have searched and searched for an answer and nowhere can I find one.  Anyone have any ideas?  Note: I also tried deleting the folders in the backend setup but that did not help.

---

### Post by Al_Vampyre on 2009-11-01
Probably a silly question but have you checked it manually by going to the url for the coverart?

---

### Post by jMon54 on 2009-11-01
Yes I can download manually and it appears as it should.  It's just since the new version (9.10RC) that  I keep getting this HTML redirect message appearing in the frontend logs.

---

### Post by iamlindoro on 2009-11-01
That message appears when MythVideo gets back something from the site that is not an image.  Classically, this has been a text page full of HTML.  The fact that it is a 0 size file indicates some other sort of network connectivity or proxy issue.  It doesn't necessarily mean anything that you can download the URL it indicates, as the data path through the API and through a web browser are slightly different.

It's also possible you're simply experiencing the extreme weekend slowness of these sites-- as they're run for free by amateurs, they bog down to near unusability on the weekends.  I strong recommend donating to both for providing this service (and possibly trying on a Tuesday or so).

---

### Post by jMon54 on 2009-11-01
Well, I have been able to circumvent the obstacle by running the cool mass update program "jamu.pl".  I will continue to look for a fix to my problem so as to avoid running a mass update every time I add a new movie.

---

