---
title: "8.04 amd64 installation issues"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by reslip on 2008-04-28
Using the official 8.04 amd64 CD, I've installed Mythbuntu following the standard installation procedures as a frontend and backend. The only additional option I added was the SSH server. After setup was complete, the computer rebooted and I logged in. I proceeded to the Mythbuntu control center and launched Mythbackend setup (mythtv-setup). Within the setup, the setup fails when connecting to the database. 

I've checked mysql with /etc/init.d/mysqld status and even restarted the daemon for good measure. I then logged into the mysql database using the root user. I did not see a mythconverg database created, nor did I see a mythtv user created within the mysql table? Are these tables and entries supposed to be added automatically on install or is there a script I can run to create the correct entries?

I've already tried another fresh install thinking I missed something on the first time around, but I'm still not having any luck. Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by reslip on 2008-04-28
I've looked a little deeper into the issue and noticed that specifically the mythtv user is not created by default when running mythtv-setup or when Mythbuntu is initially setup. 

I have a script from when I was running Myth on a Gentoo 2008.1 install, but I don't know if there will be significant changes. I'm thinking I'll just have to create the mythtv user myself, but I would have expected the install script to create this automatically. Does everyone usually have to setup the database by hand?

---

### Post by db260179 on 2008-04-28
Hi,

Im having loads of issues with mythbuntu 64bit 8.04. Im downloading a i386 version. I've tried an older release of the 64bit release 7.10, same problems.

Mainly instability, mythtv unable to scan channels using HVR-1110 (yet working if i use the manual way - mplayer dvb://"Five"

I'll get back, once i've tested the i386 version.

---

### Post by laga on 2008-04-28
Reslip,

I think we should move your issue to the bug tracker: [http://bugs.launchpad.net/mythbuntu/](http://bugs.launchpad.net/mythbuntu/)

Please file a bug report there, thanks!

db260179,

can you open a new thread? Your issue is most likely different from what reslip is seeing.

---

### Post by reslip on 2008-04-29
I submitted a bug in bugzilla for this issue. 

AMD64 8.04 installation fails to create initial database
[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/223850]("http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/223850")

In short, I solved the issue by running sudo dpkg-reconfigure mythtv-database

---

