---
title: "9.10b No videos showing up in Video Manager"
date: 2009-10-06
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by chipppy on 2009-10-06
Good Morning

I have just completed a clean install of 9.10 beta 64bit desktop, due to a primary hard drive failure of my old faithful HTPC.  The system is a standalone box with the FFE & BE in the same machine.  
I left the install as standard as possible, with only the addition of a second 1TB hard drive, which is where all my videos are located.
I am able to watch, record and playback TV, without any issues.  The EIT works fine

My problem is this
I cannot get any videos to show up in Video Managers (Utilities/Setup ==> Video Manager).  Therefore I cannot playback any of my Videos.

I have checked, double checked and triple checked that the path to the video folder is correct 
Utilities/Setting ==> Setup ==> Media Setting ==> Videos Settings ==> General Settings ==> Page 1```
Directories that hold Videos: /var/lib/mythtv/HDD2/videos
```

I have also copied a couple of videos (various file types) in the standard storage location and tried that out without any success.
```
Directories that hold Videos: /var/lib/mythtv/videos
```

I have lodged an errorlog at **_[COLOR="DarkOrchid"][http://mythbuntu.pastebin.com/f5ee7be7b]("http://mythbuntu.pastebin.com/f5ee7be7b")[/COLOR]_**

Does anyone have any ideas of what/where to try next?

Any and all help is greatly appreciated.

Cheers
chipppy

---

### Post by slamhound on 2009-10-06
Do you need Video Manager in .22 (which is in 9.10)?  If I remember correctly, you can go directly to "Watch Videos" and then hit menu, and then scan for changes.  Exit out to the main menu, wait five seconds, and then go back in and your videos should be there.

I think that doing this in Video Manager first is no longer needed.  But someone can correct me if I'm wrong about that.

---

### Post by blackoper on 2009-10-06
> **chipppy said:**
> Good Morning

I have just completed a clean install of 9.10 beta 64bit desktop, due to a primary hard drive failure of my old faithful HTPC.  

Ok since the primary drive totally failed, did you load a backup of the database or something? If not, myth doesn't have any database records of the recordings and you are going to have to run a script to add the recordings back into the database.

The script (that i've used before for this) is /usr/share/mythtv/contrib/myth.rebuilddatabase.pl
usage is: myth.rebuilddatabase.pl --try_defaults
but I think I had to specify some more stuff when I ran it. Try myth.rebuilddatabase.pl --help to get the full listing of commands

It'll go through any videos which are "unattached" (ie, not in the database) 
and ask if you want to import it. It'll then do a commflag rebuild to 
generate the seektable

---

### Post by chipppy on 2009-10-06
Good morning

Yep your right!
And the poster scripts work heaps better.

Thanks heap for that one.  

cheers
Chipppy

---

