---
title: "8.10 Beta Alternate CD problem: can't connect to database"
date: 2008-10-10
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by ozybushwalker on 2008-10-10
I installed the 8.10 Alpha 6 from CD on my system without problem.

After I installed from the 8.10 Beta Alternate CD (which I chose simply because there was a torrent for it, I couldn't see any reason for choosing between the desktop disk and alternate disk) I couldn't get mythv-setup to run to completion. (The install advised me to run mythtv-setup from a user in the mythtv group. Well I didn't know the password for mythtv so I added the login id based on my name to the mythtv group in /etc/groups.

I then invoked mythtv-setup, a few windows flashed by and then I saw a mythfilldatabase window reporting it couldn't connect to the mysql database. More details in the following reply.

---

### Post by ozybushwalker on 2008-10-10
Here's what is displayed in the *Running mythfilldatabase* window:

> [FONT="Courier New"] 2008-10-11 09:06:20.324 Using runtime prefix = /usr
2008-10-11 09:06:20.327 Empty LocalHostName.
2008-10-11 09:06:20.329 Using localhost value of mythbox
2008-10-11 09:06:20.366 New DB connection, total: 1
2008-10-11 09:06:20.391 Unable to connect to database!
2008-10-11 09:06:20.392 Driver error was [1/1045]:
QMYSQL3: Unable to connect
Database error was:
Access denied for user 'mythtv'@'localhost' (using password: YES)

QSqlQuery::exec: database not open
QSqlQuery::exec: database not open
2008-10-11 09:06:20.450 DB Error (KickDatabase):
Query was:
SELECT NULL;
No error type from QSqlError?  Strange...
QServerSocket: failed to bind or listen to the socket
2008-10-11 09:06:20.508 MCP::InitUPnP() - HttpServer Create Error
2008-10-11 09:06:20.509 Deleting UPnP client...
2008-10-11 09:06:20.511 No UPnP backends found

No UPnP backends found

Would you like to configure the database connection now? [yes]   [/FONT]

I

---

### Post by Eric Boring on 2008-10-11
Looks like you have a problem with the mysql password. Check out these links for mysql:
[http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/resetting-permissions.html](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/resetting-permissions.html)
[http://www.mythtv.org/docs/mythtv-HOWTO-6.html](http://www.mythtv.org/docs/mythtv-HOWTO-6.html)

You may also need to tell mysql to allow remote connections, which is a separate issue from setting the password. The second links above addresses that.

Finally, the bottom of the page at the second link has a line about modifying /etc/mysql/my.cnf.
I think those instructions are out of date. In the my.cnf on my backend, I see that I have just commented out the bind-address line. 

Good luck!
-josh

---

### Post by efolse on 2008-11-16
I have the same problem, with the same messages.  after a little google,  I was able ascertain that there is no mythconverg database.  When I can figure a solution, I will post it.

---

### Post by tbaca on 2008-11-17
> **efolse said:**
> I have the same problem, with the same messages.  after a little google,  I was able ascertain that there is no mythconverg database.  When I can figure a solution, I will post it.


I had the same problem.  In a terminal I used:

[INDENT]sudo dpkg-reconfigure mythtv-database[/INDENT]

If you get an error about not having perrmission or not a part of MYTHTV group, I had to use:

[INDENT]sudo apt-get install policykit-gnome[/INDENT]

____
 /

---

