---
title: "11.04 MythControlCenter Python Errors on Backup"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by GuiGuy on 2011-04-29
I'm getting 
> Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.7/dbus/service.py", line 702, in _message_cb
    retval = candidate_method(self, *args, **keywords)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/MythbuntuControlCentre/backend.py", line 252, in scriptedchanges
    for item in plugin_dictionary:
RuntimeError: dictionary changed size during iteration


I'm not even going to pretend to understand what this mumbo jumbo means, other than the error is fatal. Is anyone else having issues using the backup in the control center?

I've gone back to SimpleBackup for now. It's working OK.

---

### Post by BrandonXavier on 2011-04-30
No, you're not the only one. I get the identical messages on a system I just upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04.  Both the original and updated installations are very generic.  i.e. almost no non-mythbuntu packages installed - think the only packages I might have added was cups and apt-cacher (and of course whatever required dependencies).

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2011-04-30
did you file a bug on launchpad?

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2011-04-30
Actually looks like a bug was already filed and marked fixed. ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/mythbuntu/+bug/761189](https://bugs.launchpad.net/mythbuntu/+bug/761189)) What version of mythbuntu-common do you have?

Is this happening when you are trying to perform a backup, or a restore?

---

### Post by BrandonXavier on 2011-04-30
I had seen that bug report after posting here.  Only difference I noticed was the python version: 2.6 in 10.10 while 11.04 uses 2.7  But to your questions, mythbuntu-common is version 0.59-0ubuntu1.  For me the problem happens when scheduling a backup - right after authenticating.

Thanks!

Update: Just tested this on a brand-new frontend install with no add'l packages or customizations whatsoever - same thing happens: hit apply, authenticate and then error pops up.

---

