---
title: "remote desktop into mythbuntu?"
date: 2008-01-10
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by onesojourner on 2008-01-10
can I use an ubuntu box to remote desktop into my mythbuntu box? I am tired of hooking up a monitor to read the smaller text.

---

### Post by newlinux on 2008-01-10
Yes, I believe mythbuntu control center can set that up for you. You can install vncserver, openssh server and other options and then VNC or remote desktop in, or tunnel X over ssh (ssh -X).

---

### Post by prann on 2008-04-08
Can you do the same thing from a windows box to Mythbuntu?

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2008-04-08
From windows use putty.

---

### Post by newlinux on 2008-04-08
From windows you can use VNC as well. I use windows nx client (has linux and windows clients) with nxserver. It has much better compression than VNC for X apps - it is pretty fast over a WAN. No audio compression though...

---

### Post by laffinet on 2008-11-02
> **newlinux said:**
> Yes, I believe mythbuntu control center can set that up for you. 

Can anyone confirm this ? Can this be done ? Has someone done this ? 

I'm planning to build a HTPC and run Mythbuntu, remote connecting to it from my laptop (at least to share folders and copy stuff between the two machines) is a must for me.

Thanks for any feedback.

---

### Post by SiHa on 2008-11-03
when you install Mythbuntu, there is an option to enable VNC / SSH. You will be asked for a password for one of them (VNC, I think).

I have a FE/BE in the roof, and a FE in the lounge. I routinely remote-login from the main PC.

I use VCN viewer (Desktop clone) for Windows, and Vinagre (Desktop) / ssh (terminal) from an Ubuntu box.

One important point - none of these will allow you to copy files across.

From Windows,I use WinSCP, an SFTP client, which will log onto the Mythbox, and allow you to copy files to/from it.

To share between two Ubuntu boxes, the easiest thing is to set up an nfs share.

---

### Post by laffinet on 2008-11-03
Thanks. Sound relatively easy, but I'm sure I'll run into problems once I have my box and start setting it up :)

Especially since I've never set up an nfs share. Might have to do a bit of reading...

---

### Post by SiHa on 2008-11-03
Have a look at my post here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=908779](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=908779)
There's a couple of links to nfs guides, I used these to share the media folders on my BE.

---

### Post by laffinet on 2008-11-03
Thanks. Look like some very useful links.

Question: is it possible to nfs share a fat32 drive ?

---

### Post by SiHa on 2008-11-04
> Question: is it possible to nfs share a fat32 drive ? 
I *think* you need samba for that. Samba seemed much more complicated to setup when I first looked into it than nfs - I'm always one for the simpler option.

---

### Post by laffinet on 2008-11-08
I followed the steps in the first link but all I got was this:

```
sudo mount 192.168.1.102:/tmp ~/tmp
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on 192.168.1.102:/tmp,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       (for several filesystems (e.g. nfs, cifs) you might
       need a /sbin/mount.<type> helper program)
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so
```

both fs are ext3 (although the folder I want to share later is xfs, don't know if that is going to be a problem. Right now I'm using the tmp folder to test nfs).

this is the line in my /etc/exports:

```
/tmp 192.168.1.1/24 (rw)
```

which was automatically generated by Mythbuntu when setting the folder to share via nfs. 

Any idea what is going wrong ?

---

### Post by laffinet on 2008-11-08
Success !

Seems like I didn't have some packages installed on my client machine. After doing:
```

sudo apt-get install portmap nfs-common
```

it worked fine. Bit slow, but I guess that's what you get for doing wireless to wireless.

---

### Post by SiHa on 2008-11-09
Odd, on my Mythbuntu 8.04.1 setup, they were installed by default.

Oh well, glad you got it working in the end.

---

