---
title: "Pause/Play Remote Issue"
date: 2009-03-30
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Nobodyspeshul on 2009-03-30
So I'm using [this remote]("http://www.hdeshop.com/Wireless-USB-PC-Remote-Control-Mouse/M/B001M56DI0.htm").

And I've learned the IR commands through my [Logitech Harmony 880]("http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/remotes/universal_remotes/devices/372&cl=US,EN") remote (which I love) and all is working fine.

The major problem I have so far is that I can't pause or resume from pause when I'm playing a video even on the basic remote.  

What's the best way to go about doing this?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by nickrout on 2009-03-30
> **Nobodyspeshul said:**
> So I'm using [this remote]("http://www.hdeshop.com/Wireless-USB-PC-Remote-Control-Mouse/M/B001M56DI0.htm").

And I've learned the IR commands through my [Logitech Harmony 880]("http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/remotes/universal_remotes/devices/372&cl=US,EN") remote (which I love) and all is working fine.

The major problem I have so far is that I can't pause or resume from pause when I'm playing a video even on the basic remote.  

What's the best way to go about doing this?

Thanks in advance.

play/pause is bound to the 'p' key by default. bind your play button on your remote to the 'p' key.

---

### Post by azmyth on 2009-03-30
are you using the internal player? May just have a typo/mismatch in the lircd.conf or lircrc file as the key should be "p".

---

### Post by Nobodyspeshul on 2009-03-30
Yes, I'm using the internal player, but I don't know how to assign the 'p' key to the remote and therefore how to teach it to my harmony remote.

---

### Post by nickrout on 2009-03-30
Have a look through the file 

/home/user/.mythtv/lircrc and there should be a character (hopefully 'p') assigned to the function 'play'

For example mine (different remote, but the principal applies) has

```
begin

     remote=mceusb
     prog = mythtv
     button = Play
     config = P
     repeat = 0
     delay = 0
end
```

'Play' is the arbitrary name the button is given in /etc/lirc/lircd.conf

Anyway just make sure for a start that some key is assigned to be interpreted as a 'P'

---

### Post by Nobodyspeshul on 2009-03-31
I think this might be the problem, I don't have the remote type set up in the myth control center.

Since there's no type on the remote or receiver, I haven't set anything.

Also, it's working without setting those up...except for the play/pause/info buttons.

---

### Post by jMon54 on 2009-03-31
What I did was I mapped a red button on my remote to "P" then I learned that over to my Harmony's pause button.  Works great for me.

---

### Post by Nobodyspeshul on 2009-03-31
I'll give that a shot when I get home.

It doesn't have a programmable interface though, I may just have to suck it up and get a new remote.

---

### Post by nickrout on 2009-03-31
it doesn't have to be programmable the mapping is done in software via lirc. I have told you what the files are.

---

### Post by Nobodyspeshul on 2009-03-31
I tried looking for it last night, you have to remember I'm new to moving around linux and never edited a library file so please bear with me, I don't want to F up my system since I've got it running and just want to maintain/add to the experience.

Found the folder.

Here is what is in the lircrc file.

```
# LIRCRC Auto Generated by Mythbuntu Lirc Generator
# Author(s): Mario Limonciello, Nick Fox
# Created for use with Mythbuntu
```

So, I just add this into the file?

```
begin

     remote=mceusb
     prog = mythtv
     button = Play
     config = P
     repeat = 0
     delay = 0
end
```

Since I've got a generic remote, how do I tell ubunto what remote= is?

The file /etc/lirc/lircd.conf contains only this.

```
#This configuration has been automatically generated via
#the Ubuntu LIRC package maintainer scripts.
#
#It includes the default configuration for the remote and/or
#transmitter that you have selected during package installation.
#
#Feel free to add any custom remotes to the configuration
#via additional include directives or below the existing
#Ubuntu include directives from your selected remote and/or
#transmitter.
```

Here's the lsusb output.

```
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 06b4:1c70  
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 004: ID 045e:0040 Microsoft Corp. Wheel Mouse Optical
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
```

Thanks

---

### Post by azmyth on 2009-04-01
I'm surprised your remote works without setting up the files you have above. I ran into that with an ATI Remote that worked except for some buttons without configuring lirc. Is lirc running after reboot.

$ps -A | grep lirc

---

### Post by nickrout on 2009-04-01
> **azmyth said:**
> I'm surprised your remote works without setting up the files you have above. I ran into that with an ATI Remote that worked except for some buttons without configuring lirc. Is lirc running after reboot.

$ps -A | grep lirc

Of course some remotes work like a keyboard and don't need lirc at all. each button press is like a key press on a keyboard, which is what lirc goes through a lot of hoops to emulate!

---

### Post by Nobodyspeshul on 2009-04-01
So, basically I've got a remote that emulates a mouse and keyboard and since it doesn't have a "P" key, I can't program it or push that setting over to my harmony?

```
$ ps -A | grep lirc
```

gave me no output

---

### Post by nickrout on 2009-04-01
OK so what key DOES the play button on the remote transmit.

(hint, start a terminal, give it focus by clicking on it with the mouse then hit the Play button. What letter appears in the terminal?)

Then set myths keybindings so that letter corresponds to "play".

---

### Post by Nobodyspeshul on 2009-04-02
Play outputs nothing at all, none of the ffwd options or anything come up in the terminal window.

I'm debating getting a new remote...

---

### Post by azmyth on 2009-04-02
I don't think getting a new remote will solve the problem. I'd just bypass the remote emulating the keyboard and use lirc. You can do this by blacklisting your remote so it doesn't load on boot. For example, when my ATI remote was doing the same thing I just added the module atiusb to the blacklist file and this prevented it from loading on boot. I then had to configure lirc to make the remote work properly since I had the same issue of missing buttons.

It's a pain as this was the hardest part of my myth system but you only have to do it once.

---

### Post by Nobodyspeshul on 2009-04-02
Ok, I think the main issue is that Myth was able to recognize my remote without any additional work to be done so i thought adding the pause/play option would be a simple resolution.

Looks like it isn't.

I'm going to do some research [here]("http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/MCE_Remote") and see if I can't fix it up.

The only problem I'm curious about is that my lsusb output didn't show anything for the remote when it was plugged in.
```

Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 06b4:1c70  
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 004: ID 045e:0040 Microsoft Corp. Wheel Mouse Optical
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
```

I'll see if the wiki page can help walk me through the setup.

---

