---
title: "7.10 - 8.04 upgrade. Can't change volume"
date: 2008-05-11
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by RichardA on 2008-05-11
The volume looks as if it is changing, but doesn't.

After reading some forum threads, I changed the Output Audio Device to /dev/dsp, the Mixer Device to /dev/mixer and the Mixer Controls to Master and logged back in, but no change.

How do I make the volume control work again? Is this something to so with the change to Pulse Audio?

---

### Post by Dewey_Oxberger on 2008-05-27
I'm having this same problem.  I can try to adjust the audio  The OSD slider is adjusting but the actual volume is stuck at some middle setting.  While trying the various control panel options I somehow caused the setting to drop to zero volume and nothing will bring it back.  Yikes!

Any ideas?

---

### Post by boffyflow on 2008-05-28
Same here. Also tried changing internal mixer to external to no avail. Everything else seems to be working fine (apart from some unrelated LCD issues on the Fusion case). But strangely enough MythStream reacts to volume changes just fine. All other parts of Myth change the volume only in the OSD.

Hardware:

Motherboard: GA-MA78GM-S2H with onboard audio (Realtek ALC889A)
PVR-150
Antec Fusion 430 black
nVidia 8400GS

Any pointers much appreciated.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Paul Lowman on 2008-05-28
Had the same problem but found this in earlier posting

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=790551&highlight=volume](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=790551&highlight=volume)

Guts of it is set Audio output device to /dev/dsp and then log out and back in again.

I had previously tried the different device but had no joy until I rebooted ...

Anyhow now it works :)

---

