---
title: "12.04 default sound app"
date: 2012-12-16
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by mookie60 on 2012-12-16
I recently upgraded hardware and installed mythbuntu 12.04, 32bit, using the motherboard's integrated sound.   

Myth works fine using the tv's speakers, via the hdmi cable; though the MCE remote no longer controls volume (even though this is checked in the settings) . . . but that's really a side issue.

The main problem is when I'm not running the Myth frontend - I have no sound (like Flash video).  Nor can I find any way to access the sound settings: nothing in the menus, no sound indicator on the panel, nor an option to install anything sound related to the panel.  

Am I missing something?  I know I can install things for this purpose, but isn't there a default (gui/menu) way included to do this?  I'm gun-shy of breaking Myth's audio - which I've done many times in the past, by installing an Alsa-something or a Pulse-something only to break Myth's audio.  

BTW, could someone direct me to a website which can help me understand the difference between what Alsa is doing, and what Pulse is doing, and why we use/need both?

Thank you

---

### Post by nickrout on 2012-12-16
you don't need to use both, but you need to set up a asound.conf setting alsa's default to the hdmi audio device.

---

### Post by mookie60 on 2012-12-16
Parts, or some elements of alsa and pulse come installed with mythbuntu, but there does not seem to be access (via a menu) to either.  So it's not clear to me what the intended method is to create a .conf file.   Since I don't see anything in the menus for sound settings, I fall back to google and search for "alsa how to setup asound.conf".   

I'm missing something obvious, right?  I'm sure a search will find something, but I feel like I'm "winging it".  Does Mythbuntu already have a way to do this, or do I need to install something else?  

I initially started with the 64bit version.  All was fine initially (soundwise), then it wasn't.  I had not attempted to change anything with the sound, just installed other software I generally use.  With no luck fixing it, I fell back to the 32bit - it felt safer.

My new motherboard has Intel 1e20 integrated graphics (maybe why the install process did not create asound.conf. I'm guessing that's when it normally happens).   As you pointed out to me in a previous post, the 1e20 was not supported with 10.04 - so I'm just happy that it's working with 12.04 (at least within Myth). 

I know this really isn't a Myth specific issue, so is there a webpage you'd suggest that covers these basic Ubuntu sound concepts?   

Thanks

---

### Post by nickrout on 2012-12-16
AFAIK mythbuntu only instals libpulse and pulse is best avoided for mythtv.

Alsa sets the default audio device at the first device on the first soundcard in the system (hw:0,0) - usually an onboard sound chipset. However most myth users want audio out of their HDMI port or perhaps a spdif port.

XFCE (which is the mythbuntu desktop) does not seem to have a gui tool to set the default sound device, so you need to do it by hand, and no the setup doesn't do this for you because it can't know where you are going to want sound to go by default.

I guess the canonical documentation is here:

[http://www.alsa-project.org/main/index.php/Asoundrc](http://www.alsa-project.org/main/index.php/Asoundrc)

But if you look through this forum for threads like "HDMI sound in mythtv but not other programs" then you'll find plenty of howtos.

---

### Post by mookie60 on 2012-12-16
As far as my statement about both alsa and pulse being included; that was simply based on opening synaptic, and searching in turn for pulse and alsa to see what was already installed.

It's probably best for me to start with your suggestion in the last sentence, then branch out from there as needed.  

Thanks for the direction.

---

