---
title: "10.04, internal player, dts"
date: 2010-07-07
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2010-07-07
Has anyone been able to get dts to work (using spdif) through the internal player?  

it seems to me, it's always falling into DD instead of DTS.  I can play the same file in vlc (outside of myth) and it'll use dts.

---

### Post by nickrout on 2010-07-08
[http://www.gossamer-threads.com/lists/mythtv/users/441814](http://www.gossamer-threads.com/lists/mythtv/users/441814)

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2010-07-08
perfect, this sounds to be exactly the same problem I'm having.

I'm unsure where to find libs/libmythtv/avformatdecoder.cpp.  from the root, where is it located?  I tried find, didn't seem to find the file for me.

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2010-07-08
Yah, I have no idea how to apply the fix.  would someone be able to point me in the right direction please?

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2010-07-08
Hi,

You'll need to download the source for mythtv, modify the file mentioned and then compile and install the updated package. That sounds like a lot of work and it is.

Maybe have a look to see if the auto builds already contain this patch. If yes just start using them. 

Sorry I can't look an further at the moment as I'm stuck in the office and the work firewall seems to block almost everything to do with video or linux.

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2010-07-08
I do have the auto builds turned on (.23 non testing).  I just updated last night.  I'm guessing the fix isn't in those, which is quite unfortunate for me :(

I'm not feeling confident enough to modify/compile mythtv.  

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2010-10-28
can anyone confirm if this has been fixed in 10.10?

---

### Post by nickrout on 2010-10-28
> **SnafuFlux said:**
> can anyone confirm if this has been fixed in 10.10?

10.10 is NOT a mythtv version.

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2010-10-29
yes...  I know that.  I thought 10.10 was using .24, which I thought was the most current release.  all apologies.

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2010-10-29
> **SnafuFlux said:**
> yes...  I know that.  I thought 10.10 was using .24, which I thought was the most current release.  all apologies.

No it is not. It has 0.23.1

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2010-10-29
yah, I know that now :P.

---

### Post by nickrout on 2010-10-29
> **SnafuFlux said:**
> yah, I know that now :P.

if you read the thread i pointed to, you will see it is fixed in what was then trunk. So it should be in 0.24, you can get 0.24-fixes (which is currently pre-release (RC)) using mythbuntu-repos autobuilds.

If you want to know for sure that it is fixed, i sugest the -users mailing list.  Jean-Yves hangs out there and seems to be lead audio developer at present (as you wil see in the thread)

---

