---
title: "9.10, VDPAU and Acer Revo 3610"
date: 2010-01-01
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by dirky on 2010-01-01
Hi,
I'm considering a fresh install of mythbuntu 9.10 on my Acer Revo 3610 (frontend only).
Although most things work I seem to see occasional crashes of the frontend back to the desktop for no apparent reason.

Also I enabled the avend repo for vdpau, not sure I actually needed to?

At some point after that I attempted to upgrade with apt-get upgrade etc, then I ran in to a dependency problem. following error:

 apt-get upgrade
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
You might want to run âapt-get -f installâ to correct these.
The following packages have unmet dependencies.
 libmyth-0.22-0: Depends: libvdpau1 (>= 0.3) but it is not installed
 mplayer: Depends: libvdpau1 (>= 0.3) but it is not installed
E: Unmet dependencies. Try using -f.

I fixed this after some help from the mythtv mailing list by locking some packages at a particular version. 

Anyway I am considering starting again with the frontend. 
My main concern is that I want to make sure VDPAU works correctly. Do I actually have  to do anything after the install of mythtbuntu, and should vdpau work correctly?

Thanks

Mike

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2010-01-01
Hi,

If you install 9.10 you don't need the avend repo for VDPAU (that was for the backport of VDPAU into 0.21). MythTV version 0.22 has VDPAU support by default.

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by dirky on 2010-01-02
> **ian dobson said:**
> Hi,

If you install 9.10 you don't need the avend repo for VDPAU (that was for the backport of VDPAU into 0.21). MythTV version 0.22 has VDPAU support by default.

Regards
Ian Dobson

Thanks Ian, that will simplify things. No idea why I did it in the first place :) It was a fresh install of 9.10 anyway.

So I should be able to install and apt-get update/upgrade ok?

Mike

---

### Post by tmcgary on 2010-01-03
This has confused me for the past couple weeks. The 9.10 setup seems to have profiles for VDPAU (slim, normal, high quality) but then in the ["VDPAU issues?"]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8316292&postcount=25") thread jyavenard states:

                                  **Re: VDPAU issues?**             
                                                                     Quote:
                                                                      Originally Posted by **Dewey_Oxberger**                     [[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/viewpost.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8248681#post8248681")                 
                 [I]I have the same MB (M3N78 with the nvidia 8300).  VDPAU isn't working for me either.

To be a bit clearer.  You install mythbuntu, then go into setup and set the video profile to one of the three that use vdpau (slim, normal, and some deluxe something) - or - you make your own profile that uses vdpau.
[/I]
                                 
*none* of those profiles uses VDPAU..
so not the best advice of all if you want vdpau
<end quote>

So does this mean that even though it appears there are pre-set profiles to utilize vdpau, they dont actually work? Are the avenard repos still necessary per this [link]("http://avenard.org/media/Ubuntu_Repository/Entries/2009/11/9_Karmic_and_Using_Avenard_repo.html")??

I have had very little luck using vdpau (2.4 Ghz celeron, 1 GB RAM, GeForce 8400GS 512MB video card, HVR-1600) under karmic or hardy with the .21 backports. HDTV is visible but so choppy and messy that its not viewable. Sorry for the messy quote usage. Thanks! 

Tom

---

### Post by Neon Dusk on 2010-01-04
jyavenard  is just saying the the profiles named Slim, Normal, High Quality are not set-up for VDPAU. 

You need to select VDPAU Slim or VDPAU Normal or VDPAU High Quality

---

