---
title: "9.10 crash on Mythbuntu startup, but startx OK"
date: 2010-02-12
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by wilma92010 on 2010-02-12
I had mythbuntu 9.04 (64bit) working great with M4A78L-M motherboard with reported Radeon 3000 internal video card and my old Sony KP-46W HDTV and WinTV HVR-1600 capture card.

Had various annoying issues though, and decided fresh install 9.10 32bit, as one of my issues was that I couldn't get SP/DIF to work (thought it might be a 64/32bit issue).

My process was to install using my Syncmaster monitor and then move it to my TV, which is what I had done before. 

However, Mythbuntu crashes on startup (I see the grub splash message, but TV goes blank after that, no VNC, ssh services).  

However, in boot-recovery mode option after the crash, I can startx and run the frontend, and everything seems to work for the most part, including HDTV. 

So... looking at the Xorg.0.log, it seems that when I use startx, the xorg.conf is honored, but when mythbuntu starts, it ignores everything and determines (inaccurately) modes of the Sony KP-46ZW.   Interestingly, startx process better determines the monitor/TV modes better than Mythbuntu as it does start in an improperly scaled image, which I can deal with by changing monitor settings on the Ubuntu desktop.   

So...

I have spent hours and hours on Google, forums, etc., so I doubt there will be a specific resolution to the problem.   However, if this rings a bell with someone with a solution, that would be appreciated (and others have posted similar issues with ATI stuff).

So...

Using startx is OK with me, but how do I get it to boot to a command-line from which I can startx into Mythbuntu (from my TV).    

Thanks for any help/insight in advance.

Wilma

---

### Post by wilma92010 on 2010-02-12
Here is how I solved the problem, this might be useful for people having problems configuring ATI with obscure monitors, etc.

I re-installed from scratch, but selecting "Safe Graphics Mode" after selecting F4 from the Mythbuntu installation opening screen (after selecting language).

This steps through installation at a very low resolution (800by600), but works.  

It is important to select configure TV-OUT with the proprietary video driver, and I eventually selected 1080i, which is sort of the point of HD.   Not doing that caused odd boxing and other artifacts.

Then, with the display applet within the Ubuntu desktop you can select from the desired resolution.   As a monitor, 1024x768 works well, desktop fits nicely and everything is readable.  

However, at 1290x1080, the Mythbuntu desktop looks great and is perfectly perportioned.


I admit, that I can't tell about the TV at either resolution, both are HD to my eyes and free of artifacts.

One issue is a double image, but this is solved by selecting Progressive Scan rather than Auto from the menu.   Everyone says you can change this with the "Playback Profiles" but I can't find the place to set that (or I can find the place, but don't see the control)

Wilma

---

