---
title: "9.10 Usplash, Xsplash Help required to configure"
date: 2010-01-30
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by rodercot on 2010-01-30
Hey all,

 I am a little confused, I setup a box on my vga monitor it seems that Usplash was set to 1600x1200 when I move the system to the 1920x1080 tv I get an error while booting regarding usplash cannot load at that resolution setting to 1280x1024. I went in and changed the usplash resolution to 1280x1024 and rebooted after updating initramfs -u It boots and the error is gone BUT now I have a grey rectangle with the Mythbuntu logo in the right bottom corner of that grey rectangle while logging into the desktop then it goes away before opening the front end. 

 I am not sure how to get rid of the grey box.

 Thanks 

 Dave

---

### Post by rodercot on 2010-02-01
Well after some more research and I still cannot figure this all out but I made some headway. 

 The grey window popping up is the Xsplash logo as far as I can tell, how it got changed from the black logo in the center of the screen with the white light bar to to a grey rectangle with the old mythbuntu logo with a white flash bar I still am not sure. Anyhow, I just changed the name of the xpslash exec and that went away. I would still like to know how to configure that properly, for if you remove any of the artwork themes in MCC it removes ALOT of stuff that is needed as well. 

 Usplash well that is another story, I cannot figure out if the /etc/uspalsh.conf file is used or not anylonger in grub2 I grabbed a couple of xbmc-theme.so files and added them to the /usr/lib/uspalsh dir and tried to update alternatives and all I kept getting was no alternatives found.

 Tried Startup Manager and it would not set them up for me it just kept defaulting to mythbuntu's theme. Finally I deleted the link in /etc/alternatives created a new link to one of the xbmc-themes in /usr/lib/usplash and then in /usr/lib/uspalsh created a new link to the artwork.so file in /etc/alternatives set my res in usplash.conf at 1024x768 then edit grub in /etc/default and added the GRUB_GFXMODE=1024x768x24,1024x768 before the GRUB-DEFAULT LINE in the file. 

 update grub, updated initramfs -u and rebooted and I had the splash file I wanted. OH YA removed startup manager before all this as it did not help me. 

 ALL in ALL - I think a wiki is needed to explain how this all works together and what files you need and do not need edit. Like having a single symlink will not allow the splash you need a symlink to a file and a symlink from the file, things like that I would never have thought to try. This is a confusing deal to figure out, oh and by the way vga= in the grub2 system will yield a warning on boot-up as it is depracated in Grub2. you need to use the GRUB_GFXMODE= command as I stated above. 

 One last question, do we need apparmor, I would like to strip the boot process on the atom machines down to a min to speed up the process and apparmor seems to take a lot of it.

 Regards,
  
 Dave

---

