---
title: "10.04 upgrade fails:  &quot;ubuntu-desktop&quot; in the removal blacklist"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Kurtosis on 2010-04-30
Hi all, I'm trying to update Mythbuntu 9.10 to 10.04, using the 'Upgrade to 10.04' button in the updater.  However, I get the following error (condensed, couldn't ctrl-c and copy it verbatim):

> Cannot calculate update.  Package "ubuntu-desktop" is marked for removal, but is in the removal blacklist.

In the Mythbuntu Control Center, I have 'Ubuntu Desktop' checked as one of the Desktop Roles.  Is it possible to upgrade the Ubuntu Desktop role to 10.04 this way?

Thanks!

---

### Post by superm1 on 2010-04-30
> **Kurtosis said:**
> Hi all, I'm trying to update Mythbuntu 9.10 to 10.04, using the 'Upgrade to 10.04' button in the updater.  However, I get the following error (condensed, couldn't ctrl-c and copy it verbatim):



In the Mythbuntu Control Center, I have 'Ubuntu Desktop' checked as one of the Desktop Roles.  Is it possible to upgrade the Ubuntu Desktop role to 10.04 this way?

Thanks!

It should be, but you might have some other bug blocking it that wasn't caught during 10.04 development.  You should be able to file a bug using this command:

```
ubuntu-bug update-manager

```
That should hopefully attach the necessary logs to the bug and file it to the right place.

---

### Post by dgleeson on 2010-04-30
I had the same problem, ended up removing all the selected sources from the source management util (System->admin->software sources) and running the update utility again. Theres probably one in there causing the problem.

Worked for me after that. GL

---

### Post by Kurtosis on 2010-04-30
> **superm1 said:**
> 
```
ubuntu-bug update-manager

```
That should hopefully attach the necessary logs to the bug and file it to the right place.
Done, thanks.  Attached my report to a similar one already in there, but where the problem is with xubuntu-desktop and ubuntu-desktop, instead of mythbuntu and ubuntu-desktop.

---

### Post by Kurtosis on 2010-04-30
> **dgleeson said:**
> I had the same problem, ended up removing all the selected sources from the source management util (System->admin->software sources) and running the update utility again. Theres probably one in there causing the problem.

Worked for me after that. GL
Thanks, will try it.  However, I notice that the updater automatically does that (or at least says it does).

---

### Post by kcm on 2010-04-30
I am having the same problem, and I found this bug report:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/571743]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/571743")

which indicates that the bug is triggered by having both xubuntu-desktop and ubuntu-desktop installed (I do).  I'm about to try one of the suggestions in the replies there.

---

### Post by kcm on 2010-04-30
Now I notice Kurtosis at bottom of bug report I listed in above post, but maybe the link will help somebody else...

It looks like the mythbuntu-desktop vs. ubuntu-desktop problem is the same as the xubuntu-desktop vs. ubuntu-desktop problem.  mythbuntu-desktop depends on libsdl1.2debian-alsa, which conflicts with the libsdl1.2debian-pulseaudio package upon which ubuntu-desktop depends.

My reading of that would be that there's no way (as the packages currently stand) to have mythbuntu-desktop and ubuntu-desktop simultaneously installed on a 10.4 box.  With xubuntu-desktop the libsdl1.2debian-alsa package is only a recommends, not a dependency, so it should be possible to have xubuntu-desktop and ubuntu-desktop installed simultaneously after the upgrade.  I'll be finding out soon.

---

### Post by Kurtosis on 2010-04-30
Thanks KCM.  I guess I'll continue running 9.10 until a workaround or fix is implemented.

---

### Post by AKADAP on 2010-05-01
> **kcm said:**
> Now I notice Kurtosis at bottom of bug report I listed in above post, but maybe the link will help somebody else...

It looks like the mythbuntu-desktop vs. ubuntu-desktop problem is the same as the xubuntu-desktop vs. ubuntu-desktop problem.  mythbuntu-desktop depends on libsdl1.2debian-alsa, which conflicts with the libsdl1.2debian-pulseaudio package upon which ubuntu-desktop depends.

My reading of that would be that there's no way (as the packages currently stand) to have mythbuntu-desktop and ubuntu-desktop simultaneously installed on a 10.4 box.  With xubuntu-desktop the libsdl1.2debian-alsa package is only a recommends, not a dependency, so it should be possible to have xubuntu-desktop and ubuntu-desktop installed simultaneously after the upgrade.  I'll be finding out soon.

I have already done this experiment. I uninstalled the mythbuntu-desktop, and was able to upgrade to 10.04. After the upgrade, if I try to re-install mythbuntu-desktop, it wants to uninstall ubuntu-desktop. I decided not to re-install mythbuntu-desktop.

Other problems I had: 
After upgrade, I could only use video safe mode until I installed the ATI proprietary video driver.
Google Earth no longer works.
mythfrontend segmentation faults when I try and run live TV.

---

### Post by Kurtosis on 2010-05-01
I'm thinking about just wiping sda1 and reinstalling Ubuntu 10.04 from scratch there, then installing the MythTV packages from the repo.  I'm running a desktop with TV capabilities, not a HTPC w/ desktop capabilities anyway.

/home is on sdb1, so I should be able to do that, right?  Then remount sdb1 to /home and chown it?

---

### Post by kcm on 2010-05-02
Yes - you can certainly keep home during a reinstall when it's on a second partition.  I've done it many times.  You can tell the installer about it, but don't let it reformat it - that way you won't have to deal with fixing the mounting after the re-install.

---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2010-05-02
I am having the same problem with my upgrade.  Looking in /var/log/dist-upgrade, which file do I find the error report to post?

---

### Post by Kurtosis on 2010-05-03
> **Weidbrewer said:**
> I am having the same problem with my upgrade.  Looking in /var/log/dist-upgrade, which file do I find the error report to post?
If you use the bug report command line tool, you shouldn't have to dig around for it, it will handle that for you.  Just type this at a terminal prompt:
```
ubuntu-bug update-manager
```

---

### Post by Kurtosis on 2010-05-03
> **kcm said:**
> Yes - you can certainly keep home during a reinstall when it's on a second partition.  I've done it many times.  You can tell the installer about it, but don't let it reformat it - that way you won't have to deal with fixing the mounting after the re-install.
Thanks, just finished reinstalling.  <3 the installer that lets you mount the old /home drive without overwriting it.

---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2010-05-04
> **Kurtosis said:**
> If you use the bug report command line tool, you shouldn't have to dig around for it, it will handle that for you.  Just type this at a terminal prompt:
```
ubuntu-bug update-manager
```


Hmm...this is what I get, a popup that says:

"The problem cannot be reported:

This is not a genuine Ubuntu package"

---

### Post by superm1 on 2010-05-04
> **Weidbrewer said:**
> Hmm...this is what I get, a popup that says:

"The problem cannot be reported:

This is not a genuine Ubuntu package"

Open update manager and check for updates and that should go away.

---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2010-05-04
Still didn't work.

It occurs to me, that this install is technically Mythbuntu.

---

### Post by mebigfatguy on 2010-05-20
as was referenced in the related link, i had xubuntu and ubuntu installed, by doing:

apt-get remove xubuntu-desktop

and then upgrading it worked.. thanks!

---

### Post by benkokes on 2010-09-02
I was having similar issues. The fix for me was to remove Mythbuntu-desktop.

I performed this action by going into Applications > System> Synaptic Package Manager and removing the Mythbuntu-desktop and all of its dependents.  Worked like a charm.

---

### Post by dancro on 2010-09-22
I had the same problem with "ubuntu-desktop in the removal blacklist" and have now fixed it.  Thanks to all who preceded me in this effort, it was by reading posts here that I finally figured out what to do.

I updated my machine to 10.4 and that's when the problem began.  This machine also has Mythtv installed.  In System>Administration>Mythbuntu Control Center, under the System Roles is Desktop Role where there is a check box for Ubuntu Desktop, which was checked.

I unchecked Ubuntu Desktop and clicked Apply then Quit.  Then I started Mythbuntu Control Center again and selected System Updates from the System Roles tab.  

I received the message about Partial Updates and selected that option.
Several updates were applied and some packages were removed.  The update completed without any error message.

When I restart Update Manager it reports "Your system is up to date".

Hope this information helps someone else, because many people on this site have helped me.

Thanks again to all of you who support all of us.:)

---

### Post by andysummerskill on 2010-10-01
I had exactly the same problem. 
 
Unchecking 'Ubuntu Desktop' in MCC allowed the upgrade to proceed. 
 
However, then had to dowload Ubuntu desktop components again once the upgrade completed.
 
Andy

---

### Post by taing on 2011-01-01
I have the same error message and found that 

```
sudo apt-get remove ubuntu-desktop
```solved it nicely.

---

