---
title: "11.10 Upgrade Desktop Fails To Start"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by jnjc on 2011-10-17
Hi,

I have just done the upgrade to 11.10 using the command 'do-release-upgrade' on a standalone system.  Everything seemed to go ok, but now when the machine boots the desktop doesn't start.  The backend is running.

If I ssh to the machine and run xinit then XCFE starts and I can manually start the frontend.

I almost 100% sure I was running gnome before the update, but it seems to have been removed during the upgrade.

I think what is happening is that the mythtv user is trying to use gnome as the default desktop.  I am happy to switch to xcfe but I don't know how to set it as the desktop for the frontend ?

Anybody got any ideas ?

TIA,
  JC

---

### Post by klc5555 on 2011-10-17
The boot process doesn't even dump you at a normal TTY prompt? If it did, then startx (or startxfce4) would get everything going from the prompt. You can also normally get to a root prompt at boot by starting grub in recovery mode.

Anyway, I'm not running 11.10 (and probably never will). But since the xcfe packages are in fact installed on your machine, the traditional place to change bootup desktops is in the menu item titled something along the lines of (I'm not near a Ubuntu machine at the moment) "login screen" or "login session". Here after "unlocking" by entering the sudo password, you will have the option of setting a wide variety of login and session characteristics, including the default desktop. Setting the desktop to your preferred one and restarting should do the job.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2011-10-17
Can you please file a bug:

# ubuntu-bug update-manager


After you file a bug, there has been some reports of unity-greeter getting installed rather than mythbuntu-lightdm-theme.  Please check the packages installed for this package, and if so, remove it and then install mythbuntu-lightdm-theme.

See [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11344365&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11344365&postcount=4) for more information.

---

### Post by jnjc on 2011-10-18
Followed the instructions in this post:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11358168&postcount=16](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11358168&postcount=16)

And all is working now.  Looks like this person a has already logged it as a bug.

Thanks for the help.

JC

---

