---
title: "8.10 and pvr-150"
date: 2008-11-08
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by codymyth on 2008-11-08
is the pvr-150 supposed to work out of the box with 8.10 or do i have to manualy set up the ir blaster and remote, if it must be done manualy could somebody point me in the right direction

---

### Post by agamotto on 2008-11-08
It should work from the start, but you might need to go into the Control Center to set up the remote.  Just choose Hauppauge tv card for the 'listed' remote, and you should be ok.  Don't forget that you also have to set up the tuner card in the Myth Backend Setup section.

---

### Post by codymyth on 2008-11-08
i choose both those options in the initial setup while installing mythbuntu and i have set up my tuner card, I can watch live tv but the remote and ir blaster don't work

---

### Post by codymyth on 2008-11-09
i tried going to [http://www.blushingpenguin.com/mark/blog/?p=24](http://www.blushingpenguin.com/mark/blog/?p=24) and following the steps but the steps won't work for me, so i still don't have a working ir blaster or remote

---

### Post by codymyth on 2008-11-11
anybody?

---

### Post by spoky99 on 2008-11-11
> **codymyth said:**
> is the pvr-150 supposed to work out of the box with 8.10 or do i have to manualy set up the ir blaster and remote, if it must be done manualy could somebody point me in the right direction

Search for one lirc tool of mythbuntu made by superM (Mario Limonciello) that is make for configure the ir interface. I used it in the past for the normal remote and it work fine. I don't know if it work for the ir blaster.

---

### Post by foxbuntu on 2008-11-11
I think you are thinking of mythbuntu-lircrc-generator and its preinstalled with Mythbuntu and Mythbuntu Control Center (The Check box under the remote selection "Generate Dynamic Button Maps" runs this application) However you need to make sure to close/restart mythfrontend after making changes to LIRC in-order for them to take effect. The PVR-150 card, remote, and IR blaster all should work out of the box with Mythbuntu 8.10 if you select the right items in MCC.

---

### Post by codymyth on 2008-11-12
well i selected hauppage tv card for the remote and Pvr-150-ir-blaster for the blaster and it doesn't work, is there anyway to test it maybe?

---

### Post by ed3120 on 2008-12-03
Mine doesn't work either, and I've correctly selected the blaster in MCC.

---

