---
title: "8.04 Clean Install Issue"
date: 2008-05-06
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by smiley2billion on 2008-05-06
Hey everyone, I haven't tried mythbuntu in quite a while so I figured with the new 8.04 release I'd give it a spin.

Upon seeing the first boot screen where you choose to boot in to Live mode or Install once I select either of these the splash screen goes away and I get a quick scroll of several ASCII characters.  After this the screen will go blank and nothing after it.

I've tried using the "safe graphics mode" but get the same issue.  I'm currently downloading the alternative install disc, but I was wondering if anyone else has seen this problem.

Thanks!

---

### Post by smiley2billion on 2008-05-06
UPDATE:

I just tried the alternate install disc and get the same thing.  As soon as it gets done loading the kernel (blue bar after making a selection) ASCII characters start roaming the screen in a very fast manner.

This happens if I select "Check CD for defects" as well, so obviously something isn't getting loaded properly. I can leave the machine alone and every so often another quick flash of ASCII characters will appear and disappear. But nothing ever seems to really start loading.

I am going to try 7.10 and see if it gives me the same results.

**Nevermind, the ISOs for 7.10 are no longer available. :/

I am now going to attempt the AMD64 build as I am using an Athlon 4800+ X2.

**2nd Update: I found 7.10 x86 on newsgroups, I will try this ISO as well.

---

### Post by smiley2billion on 2008-05-06
None of the other ISOs work (7.10 included).  All of them result in a blank screen or crazy ASCII characters after the first "loading" bar.

I can also verify that the discs are working, as I am using the "Live" version right now on a different machine.

I will post detailed hardware specs in a moment.

Specs:

AMD Athlon 4800+ X2
eVGA 133-K8-NF41 (NForce 4 chipset)
3 Gigs RAM
ATI Radeon X300 SE 128 MB
Dynex DX-SC5.1 sound card (has needed optical out)
Hauppauge WinTV 44801 (cheap card, but reported to work)


At this point in the game I am going to be removing various hardware parts in an attempt to get it to boot.

---

### Post by Dewey_Oxberger on 2008-05-06
Hey Smiley2B - while you are installing let me know if it seems to finish without doing a "pull the CD and reboot".

I just posted my 8.04 initial experience:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=784939](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=784939)

Thanks,

DO

---

### Post by smiley2billion on 2008-05-06
> **Dewey_Oxberger said:**
> Hey Smiley2B - while you are installing let me know if it seems to finish without doing a "pull the CD and reboot".

I just posted my 8.04 initial experience:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=784939](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=784939)

Thanks,

DO

I can't get the installer or Live cd to start at all. :/

---

### Post by smiley2billion on 2008-05-07
I've tried all manner of hardware configurations but all result in the same.

I also went in and used F6 to backspace "quiet" and "splash" in an effort to see where things go wrong.

The text is so blindingly fast before the ASCII characters start all I can see on the last line is:

"Checking if..."

And then I've got all kinds of arrows and faces and other nonsense, but it's all scrolling upwards extremely fast, like it's loading something. Weird stuff.

** It seems I need to change the "ATI" driver over to "RADEON" using "break=bottom" using F6 at boot time but those instructions were for earlier versions of Ubuntu and it doesn't seem to do anything on 8.04, I still get ASCII characters while it's starting up.  I'm lost. :/

---

### Post by smiley2billion on 2008-05-09
Still having this issue.  

Can anyone recommend a cheap PCI-x card that works well with mythbuntu?

---

### Post by db260179 on 2008-05-10
Have you tried a different distro?

Try damnsmall, its small to download and you can install it on your usb stick.

[http://www.damnsmalllinux.org/](http://www.damnsmalllinux.org/)

Have you had any other linux distro working on this pc before?

There is issues with the current hardy kernel - the default config they used is not compatible with some motherboards.

Also you have a amd x2 processor, try turning off the coolandquiet option in the bios!

[QUOTE=smiley2billion;4920311]Still having this issue.

---

### Post by smiley2billion on 2008-05-10
Well, I can confirm it's not the video card, I went out and got an Nvidia 7300 and it still shows up. I will try turning off the Cool n' Quiet, thanks for the tip.

** Tried disabling Cool n' Quiet and got the same results.  Also, this is an old motherboard of mine that ran earlier versions of Ubuntu (7.10) for months on end with no issues.  I'll try more things later on, I've got a wedding rehearsal dinner to go to!

---

### Post by db260179 on 2008-05-11
Ok, try the suggested distro i mentioned.

Looks like a kernel issue with you motherboard. The kernel devs keep adding and changing things. I used to have a twin usb joystick, i made a patch to detect it as two seperate joysticks for 2.6.20, but since 2.6.22 the YandX axis are reversed now????

Also as a last thing you can try. When booting the Mythbuntu, edit the boot method ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)) and add some kernel options before booting - acpi=off noapic nolapic

Worth a try - read the supplyed link, could diagnose your problem.

** Tried disabling Cool n' Quiet and got the same results.  Also, this is an old motherboard of mine that ran earlier versions of Ubuntu (7.10) for months on end with no issues.  I'll try more things later on, I've got a wedding rehearsal dinner to go to![/QUOTE]

---

