---
title: "8.04, High Load &amp; Constant Disk Access"
date: 2008-05-16
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by thespirit3 on 2008-05-16
Hi all,

Mythbuntu, 8.04, XFCE.  Fresh install running as the front end only.

Load average sits at about 2.00, and disk LED flashes every second.   'top' shows <10% cpu usage, vmstat shows no noticable i/o, /proc/interrupts also doesn't show anything unusual, and no log files are being updated.   Any non essential processes have been disabled.

If I drop to single user it stops.  Start XFCE manually as the same user it's fine - until I start mythfrontend and then the problem comes back.  Exit mythfrontend and it continues - I've killed off as many processes as I can and it still continues, yet drop to single user and it stops.

Cutting out Xfce and simply running mythfrontend without a window manager works well - but I believe some functions fail without an underlying window manager?

I see there's another posts about high load average.  I'm wondering if other people have noticed the constant HD polling too... ?

IRC seems quiet today so I thought I'd give the forum a try ...

Note: Forgot to add - 'mtd' has been killed (reports of this grabbing cpu time), plus all XFCE and myth 'polling of cdrom/removeable-media' has been disabled.

Thanks,


Steve

---

### Post by jlagrone on 2008-05-17
I was having the same problem.  I never really figured out what it was, but it seems to have gone away.  Anyway, if you are using mythweb, I had a symlink in my mythvideo folder pointing to the same folder, so mythweb generated an infinite loop - that may have been the problem for me.  Otherwise, one of the updates fixed it (or I just haven't noticed it recently)

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2008-05-18
Mythweather updates frequently also.

---

### Post by jlagrone on 2008-05-19
I was wrong, my high load issues reappeared twice today.  It's really weird, it just seems to happen out of the blue when the system is completely idle.  Also, the average load settles in to 2 when idle and under normal load, it seems to be exactly 2 higher than normal. (I haven't noticed any unusual disk usage, but I don't have a hdd indicator light on my box so it may or may not be happening)

The machine is currently working on transcoding some stuff at the moment, but when it finishes, I'll try to scrape together some logs and other data that may be useful (hopefully)

---

### Post by johnl on 2008-05-19
Does Mythbuntu include trackerd by default?  If so, it could be responsible for your disk access, especially since it will try to do indexing when the system is idle to prevent it from degrading performance.

Generally the first thing I do once I install Ubuntu is turn of tracker as it just annoys me :)

---

### Post by jlagrone on 2008-05-19
I don't believe tracker is installed, but I could be wrong.

So far the only thing I have been able to find that may be contributing to my problems is the following from dmesg

```
[21320.160079] ata3.00: exception Emask 0x0 SAct 0x0 SErr 0x0 action 0x2 frozen
[21320.160091] ata3.00: cmd a0/00:00:00:00:00/00:00:00:00:00/a0 tag 0
[21320.160093]          cdb 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
[21320.160094]          res 40/00:03:00:0c:00/00:00:00:00:00/a0 Emask 0x4 (timeout)
[21320.160098] ata3.00: status: { DRDY }
[21320.160117] ata3: soft resetting link
[21320.684293] ata3.00: configured for UDMA/25
[21320.684311] ata3: EH complete

```

ata3 is my dvd drive.  Also, this message repeats every few seconds or so.  Among other things, the ide interface is being detected incorrectly - this seems to be a known issue (though I've only seen it in regards to hard drives).

---

### Post by thespirit3 on 2008-05-19
Ahhh - it's good to know I'm not the only one to see this.  The lack of hits on google made me think I was alone in my high-load LED-flashing impending doom.

I've uninstalled all mythplugins - still the same happens.

jlagrone: The HD access isn't 'noisey' - I can't hear the heads moving, but the LED is flashing (so without an LED you probably wouldn't notice).  I wouldn't worry about this in itself if it wasn't for the high load average.  I couldn't see anything unusual in the logs (no SATA resets).

Trackerd - isn't that a gnome process?  I didn't think Xfce used this, and don't recall seeing/killing it whilst on my hunt for runaway processes.

My other option is to ditch XFCE and run Gnome.  But as others now have this issue too I'm keen to get to the bottom of it!

Thanks,


Steve

---

### Post by jlagrone on 2008-05-19
I'm not sure what is going on, but experimenting last night it seems that if I have a dvd in my dvd drive everything is fine and I have a normal load.  However, if i don't have a disk in the drive it keeps trying to reset it (like it thinks it's a hdd?) and it bumps my load average up by about 2 (I also get warnings when trying to eject from myth, something like error could not eject, but it does eject the disk)

Also, I haven't noticed it every time, but the last time that I encountered a persistent high load, one of my tuner cards was mysteriously unavailable (the second on the pvr-500).

---

### Post by thespirit3 on 2008-05-20
There's a known issue with Myth and Xfce both fighting to auto-detect removeable media.  However, in my case I've disabled all auto-detection and yet still have the problem.  Thought it worth mentioning as it sounds this may be your problem...

Steve

---

### Post by jlagrone on 2008-05-21
Well, it's not that, unfortunately.  I've disabled all of the auto-detect stuff and it's still happening.  It is definitely related to my dvd drive, but I haven't been able to figure out if it is actually the cause or just another symptom.  Other than the high load numbers, my system doesn't seem to be taking any sort of performance hit.

---

### Post by thespirit3 on 2008-05-23
Anyone else seen or solved this?

---

### Post by jlagrone on 2008-05-27
It looks like adding noapic to boot solves the problem for me.  More notably, it looks like the problem is caused by libata, apic, and possibly some kernel settings that are not getting along.  From what I have seen it appears that libata has issues when there are both ide and sata drives for certain chipsets.  I don't know if it will work for you, but it is easy to test.

Press ESC when grub option comes up (or whatever it tells you to do).  Then you can add a boot command, add "noapic."  If that works, you can then add "noapic" to the end of your default boot parameters in /boot/grub/menu.lst.  There will be a line something like

```
/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-17-generic root=UUID=b5cb261f-e905-444e-80b7-57be2235a307 ro quiet splash
```

add "noapic" to the end of that.

---

### Post by thespirit3 on 2008-05-31
Thanks - I'll give the noapic a go.   In the meanwhile this will bump the post in case any others have suggestions.

I'm now running from flash and with the slow IO on reads and especially writes this does now seem to be causing a problem.   I'll update this with my results :)

Thanks again,


Steve

---

### Post by jkman on 2008-06-07
> **jlagrone said:**
> It looks like adding noapic to boot solves the problem for me.  More notably, it looks like the problem is caused by libata, apic, and possibly some kernel settings that are not getting along.  From what I have seen it appears that libata has issues when there are both ide and sata drives for certain chipsets.  I don't know if it will work for you, but it is easy to test.

Press ESC when grub option comes up (or whatever it tells you to do).  Then you can add a boot command, add "noapic."  If that works, you can then add "noapic" to the end of your default boot parameters in /boot/grub/menu.lst.  There will be a line something like

```
/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-17-generic root=UUID=b5cb261f-e905-444e-80b7-57be2235a307 ro quiet splash
```

add "noapic" to the end of that.

jlagrone - THANK YOU!!!  I've been trying to figure out ever since Hardy was installed what the cause was with my dvd drive randomly locking.  I have one SATA hard drive and an IDE DVD drive,  The drive worked fine in Gutsy, but Hardy kept locking up the drive after about 5 to 10 minutes.

Checking the logs, I too had the following:
```
[ 1704.078027] ata1.00: exception Emask 0x0 SAct 0x0 SErr 0x0 action 0x2 frozen
[ 1704.078038] ata1.00: cmd a0/00:00:00:00:00/00:00:00:00:00/a0 tag 0
[ 1704.078040]          cdb 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
[ 1704.078041]          res 40/00:03:00:00:00/00:00:00:00:00/a0 Emask 0x4 (timeout)
[ 1704.078044] ata1.00: status: { DRDY }
[ 1704.078061] ata1: soft resetting link
[ 1704.569630] ata1.00: configured for PIO0
[ 1704.569646] ata1: EH complete

```

I manually changed the boot like you mentioned and the dvd drive is working perfectly now and the error no longer comes up in the error logs.

Thanks again man!

---

