---
title: "9.10 Desktop Font Size problem"
date: 2009-12-26
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by mspace on 2009-12-26
I've been attempting to set up a little Mythbuntu 9.10 combined front/back end (using the i386 Live CD). The actual Myth part seems to install fine - there's a long way to go before I can finish set up, so we'll see.

However, exiting from Myth to the desktop gives me an unusable state where the window fonts are enormous and fit about 10 characters across the screen. The desktop itself seems to be working, but I can't actively use it as I can only see about 4 lines of menu at any one time and can't navigate anything.

This does not appear to be a problem with the monitor/refresh rate as the Myth part works fine and is perfectly usable/correct in aspect ratio. However, I'm open to all suggestions.

I'm using an Intel D945GCLF2 board, with the same result whether using the VGA or S-Video outputs.

Any suggestions greatly appreciated :)

---

### Post by mspace on 2009-12-27
Update : I've worked around this by booting the LiveCD in safe graphics mode. This appears to avoid any video driver installs which leaves everything usable.

However, this does mean there's no OpenGL acceleration making any OpenGL reliant operations pretty much impossible (eg visualisations etc).

If I could somehow load the video chipset drivers up to enable OpenGL without buggering up the desktop ratio I'd be very happy.

Grateful for any suggestions....

---

### Post by pave_spectre on 2010-01-14
I had this same problem and after much hunting through the options found the solution

You need to go to:

**Applications -- > Settings -- > xfce 4 Settings Manager -- > Appearance**

then under the **fonts** tab, scroll down to **Custom DPI Setting**

enable that then make your font size whatever you want.

at 1900x1080 resolution I have the DPI setting at 100.

I have yet to see if it survives a reboot however.

---

### Post by josephmc on 2010-01-28
Thank you! This is been soo annoying. Having the enormous fonts was nice on the TV but it caused some really bad problems in other areas. 

Changed from 300 dpi or something down to 100 in xfce4-settings>appearance

---

### Post by TheMiz on 2010-01-28
Best tip ever (so far)!

I had all my fonts down to a size 6, just to make it usable.  But I still had to zoom out of every web site I visited, because it was unreadable.

All fixed!

---

