---
title: "Ps3 ?"
date: 2009-07-07
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by DoUPod on 2009-07-07
Hi,


Does someone test mythbuntu on a PS3 ? And is it ok ? Because many linux lag on PS3 especially when you are watching TV (i've a Terratec Cynergy T² TNT Tuner).

Thank you

P.S. : I apologize my english, i'm french ^^

---

### Post by AKADAP on 2009-07-07
It is not clear the question you are asking.

Do you want to run mythbuntu on the PS3? If so I can't answer any questions about that.

Do you want to use the PS3 as a front end? Well, the PS3 is not a MythTV front end (unless perhaps you run linux on it, but I don't know about that) but you can use the upnp feature of the MythTV backend to play video on the PS3

The PS3 does a much better job of displaying video than MythTV, but you don't get the commercial skipping, and any glitch in the data can abort playback and/or crash the PS3.

---

### Post by DoUPod on 2009-07-08
Sorry if it wasn't very clear.

I would like to watch TV with a TV Tuner (digital television is called TNT in France). I can't on the original system (except if i buy a Playstation TV). So, i thought i can use Linux to watch TV with my digital TV Tuner Terratec Cynergy T².

First, I saw (X)Ubuntu, but it's a complete system. Then i saw mythbuntu wich is a system dedicated to medias (TV, music, videos, pictures and so).

So I wonder if the PS3 can display French TV (MPEG2 at 3/6 Mbit/s and 720 dots X 576) using mythbuntu/mythTV.

Is it possible ? Or will it lag a lot ?

Thanks

---

### Post by DoUPod on 2009-07-21
up ?

---

### Post by AKADAP on 2009-07-21
PS3 can play MPEG2 files. The question is, how do you get the files to the PS3?
Live TV is out since the PS3 reads the size of the file when it starts playing, so if the file is getting written as it is being played, the playback will stop when the playback reaches the file size when you started watching, even if more has been recorded in the mean time.

I use the PS3 to watch TV programs recorded on a computer using MythTV via UPNP. (Ubuntus video playback sucks at the moment).
The alternative is to record the programs on a thumb drive and then plug the drive into the PS3

---

### Post by DoUPod on 2009-07-22
Sorry, i think you didn't understand my question.

I want to record numeric TV directly on the PS3, installing a Linux distribution. Is it possible ? Or PS3 isn't enough powerful ?

---

### Post by AKADAP on 2009-07-22
> **DoUPod said:**
> Sorry, i think you didn't understand my question.

I want to record numeric TV directly on the PS3, installing a Linux distribution. Is it possible ? Or PS3 isn't enough powerful ?

Possible? probably. Desirable? probably not. 

My understanding is that although you can install linux on the PS3, the PS3 only allows you 10 GB of disk space to do it (regardless of the size of disk). Also Sony does not allow full access to the video hardware (they don't want people to be able to write their own games without Sony getting a cut). On top of that, you are stuck with the video decoders in linux which in my experience are terrible.

The Sony video decoders have problems (lip-sync is inconsistent, they will hang or abort playback at the slightest data glitch), but bad picture quality is not one of them.

---

### Post by DoUPod on 2009-07-23
Ok thanks. Solved topic

---

### Post by AKADAP on 2009-07-27
> **AKADAP said:**
> Possible? probably. Desirable? probably not. 

My understanding is that although you can install linux on the PS3, the PS3 only allows you 10 GB of disk space to do it (regardless of the size of disk). Also Sony does not allow full access to the video hardware (they don't want people to be able to write their own games without Sony getting a cut). On top of that, you are stuck with the video decoders in linux which in my experience are terrible.

The Sony video decoders have problems (lip-sync is inconsistent, they will hang or abort playback at the slightest data glitch), but bad picture quality is not one of them.

I found some setting I had missed before, after a bit of tweeking, my MythTV image on my computer is much better, to the point of being watchable, but still not quite as good as the PS3.

---

