---
title: "9.10 Fresh install - Restricted drivers; video going crazy"
date: 2009-10-24
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by chrispcall on 2009-10-24
I just installed 9.10RC this morning and everything was looking ok but the screen was pushed off to the right about 2 inches (not in the monitor, but in the OS).  So I read around and decided to try to install the restricted video drivers (Nvidia 173 for my 6200LE).  After enabling the restricted drivers and rebooting, the screen blinks rapidly (right after the Mythbuntu logo) and it says "Starting/stopping NTP" and finally a login message appears (even though I've got Auto-login set up).  

It will not allow me to login because the screen blinking makes the keyboard unresponsive.  I have to type a letter several times to get it to show up on the screen.

Also, I'm quite a noob and with previous trials of installing on previous versions, I would backup Xorg.conf and play around and always have the option to reload an old working version.  But I guess with 9.10, there is no xorg.conf by default.  It didn't appear until I installed the restricted drivers.  This is my ENTIRE Xorg.conf:

```
/etc/X11$ nano xorg.conf
  GNU nano 2.0.9              File: xorg.conf


Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Default Device"
        Driver  "nvidia"
        Option  "NoLogo"        "True"
EndSection
```

Is there a way to backup my setting before attempting a driver install next time?

Does anyone know what might be going on with the blinking or where I can go to roll the restricted drivers back without logging in (I still have great SSH access).

Thanks in advance, 
Chris

---

### Post by AJ1000 on 2009-10-24
A better way of installing the video drivers is during the mythbuntu installation. I found this the most reliable way.

---

### Post by chrispcall on 2009-10-24
Yea, That's what I tried the first time I did the install earlier.  Same result.  Then I reinstalled and had it working under open-source drivers but had the screen off center (to the right).

So, told it to install restricted, and the video blinks like crazy.

Thanks for your input.

---

### Post by AJ1000 on 2009-10-24
Sorry but my knowledge is limited. I cannot offer any more ideas

---

### Post by chrispcall on 2009-10-24
That's OK, Thanks again.

Anyone else?

---

### Post by AJ1000 on 2009-10-24
I had a thought:

Did you try the earlier version of the restricted drivers? (the issue may be with the latest version of the restricted drivers). 

For example, for my Nvidia, I am using v 173 but I could have selected v 96 (which is the third option on the GUI.

---

### Post by chrispcall on 2009-10-24
I have not.

I did see that as an option and I'm willing to give it a try, but do I need to reinstall, or is there a CLI way (through SSH) that I can select the other drivers.  

Otherwise, although a bad solution, I can re-install and select the older drivers after another installation.

Thanks again

---

