---
title: "8.04 Beta doesn't work as live CD on two platforms"
date: 2008-04-01
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by ozybushwalker on 2008-04-01
With the Mythbuntu 8.04 BETA CD

System with 2 * Pentium III CPUs, 512MB RAM and Matrox G400 Video card: Booting the Mythbuntu Live Environment the system drops into the Busybox environment with no clues why MythTV didn't start.

System with VIA CLE266 and VIA C3 1GHz Nehemiah CPU: Booting the Mythbuntu Live Environment the system hung after the progress bar made it to about 8.5 out of 9 segments. Striking the CAPS LOCK or NUM LOCK key made no change to the corresponding LED indicator. This system successfully booted Mythbuntu 7.10. How can I get more information about what has happened in the 8.04 boot? 

System with VIA CLE266 and VIA C3 Samuel 800MHz CPU: Booting the Mythbuntu Live Environment starts MythTV.

I reported these in [https://bugs.launchpad.net/mythbuntu/+bug/204057]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/mythbuntu/+bug/204057")
bu there wasn't any sign the report got any attention. Maybe a forum reader will have a helpful suggestion.

---

### Post by foxbuntu on 2008-04-01
Gotta give us devs a chance...so many bugs so little time ;)

This sounds like a video driver issue, there were some major kernel changes between 7.10 and 8.04 reguarding this. It will certianly be looked at in your bug report, just have to fix the critical's first. Thanks for your patience...if you find more informationt to help us out, please feel free to post it here (and in the bug report).

---

### Post by ozybushwalker on 2008-04-01
> Gotta give us devs a chance...so many bugs so little time :wink:
I'm a kernel developer myself so I have some sympathy for developers facing a mountain of bug reports.

My main reason for posting this in the forums was the possibility that exposing the problems to a wider audience might produce a helpful suggestion that would at least lead to a greater understanding of the problems I saw.

I'm happy to do things to try to get more information but forthe present I don't know enough about how Mythbuntu works or is supposed to work to know where to start.

I have booted in "Safe Graphics Mode" but that makes no observable difference.

---

