---
title: "0.22 MythVideo Manual Meta Data?"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by uncle hammy on 2009-10-29
First off, gotta say that though I was unable to move to Storage Groups (all my library is ISO/Video_TS), I am a BIG fan of the new meta data grabbers!  For the most part, the work extremely well.

That being said, I have yet to find a way to manually enter Meta Data for videos that the grabber can't find.  Now, I know I can use MythWeb to do a lot of it.  However, I can't add things like fanart with Mythweb.  Is there another manual way to take care of this...aside from manual sql?

---

### Post by xinix on 2009-10-29
Yes, Hit 'I' to bring up a pop-up with various options including metadata related ones.  You should also be able to hit 'R' and jump directly to the window want.  My experience has been that I've had to re-do metadata entries after each scan for new media.  It is frustrating and maybe it will be fixed.

---

### Post by uncle hammy on 2009-10-29
Thanks, that worked fine!

I have not had any issues with Meta Data being reset after scans.

---

### Post by johnnybirdman on 2009-10-29
> **xinix said:**
> Yes, Hit 'I' to bring up a pop-up with various options including metadata related ones.  You should also be able to hit 'R' and jump directly to the window want.  My experience has been that I've had to re-do metadata entries after each scan for new media.  It is frustrating and maybe it will be fixed.

I have been looking for, and have not yet found, a list of keyboard commands/shortcuts.
Do you know if a list exists?

Thanks,
J.

---

### Post by larsolav on 2009-10-29
> **johnnybirdman said:**
> I have been looking for, and have not yet found, a list of keyboard commands/shortcuts.
Do you know if a list exists?

Thanks,
J.
In this thread the keyboard commands were discussed:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1290226](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1290226)

There is a link in post number 8, which I think may help.

Cheers!

---

### Post by johnnybirdman on 2009-10-29
> **larsolav said:**
> In this thread the keyboard commands were discussed:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1290226](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1290226)

There is a link in post number 8, which I think may help.

Cheers!

Thanks, looks like I'm not the only one.
J.

---

### Post by kja999 on 2009-11-01
Hi,

Not sure you have found it yet, but when manually entering metadata for videos not all fields are available to enter, specifically year.

Most annoying :-)

---

### Post by iamlindoro on 2009-11-01
They are if you're using a theme that has themed all of the metadata edit widgets... like Graphite.

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-11-04
I've got one for you.  Is there away to manually edit the metadata for recordings?!  I absolutely LOVE that mythbuntu will go out and grab the data for recorded tv shows (fan art ftw!).

But, I have an issue.  I recorded "V" (2009) lastnight, and the scripts went out and got the data for the 1984 version of "V" not the 2009.

anyway I can fix this??

---

### Post by SiHa on 2009-11-04
Stick with the '84 ones, it was fantastic!

But +1 for needing to be able to edit the metadata for recordings.

I was amazed when I imported the recordings from my 8.04 setup, and the fanart appeared, but there's a couple that it's got wrong.

---

