---
title: "11.10 upgrade: No desktop"
date: 2012-02-18
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by aircarver on 2012-02-18
I did an upgrade to Mythbuntu 11.10, and Mythweb shows it to be running, but startup is to the red Mythbuntu splash screen, There is no access to desktop or Mythcentre.

Any way to fix from the command line or SSH ?

---

### Post by nickrout on 2012-02-18
> **aircarver said:**
> I did an upgrade to Mythbuntu 11.10, and Mythweb shows it to be running, but startup is to the red Mythbuntu splash screen, There is no access to desktop or Mythcentre.

Any way to fix from the command line or SSH ?

You should be able to press excape on a keyboard and see the system message floating past.

What do they say?

---

### Post by aircarver on 2012-02-18
> **nickrout said:**
> You should be able to press excape on a keyboard and see the system message floating past.

What do they say?

Results in no action.

I can ssh in or use mythweb normally

---

### Post by nickrout on 2012-02-18
ssh in and look at your logs then. /var/log/Xorg.0.log specifically.

---

### Post by aircarver on 2012-02-18
> 
[    17.654] (II) Loading /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/xorg/extra-modules/nvidia_drv.
so
[    18.122] (II) Module nvidia: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
[    18.122]    compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.0
[    18.122]    Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    19.640] (EE) NVIDIA: Failed to load the NVIDIA kernel module. Please check
your
[    19.640] (EE) NVIDIA:     system's kernel log for additional error messages.
[    19.640] (II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
[    19.640] (II) Unloading nvidia
[    19.640] (EE) Failed to load module "nvidia" (module-specific error, 0)
[    19.640] (EE) No drivers available.


Well, I guess this is it.

The upgrade wiped out Nvidia.
I apt-get installed nvidia-173
Didn't work
removed
installed nvidia-current
apparently didn't work either

So I went to this website:
[http://www.noobslab.com/2011/09/nvidia-drivers-for-ubuntu-1110-oneiric.html#comment-form](http://www.noobslab.com/2011/09/nvidia-drivers-for-ubuntu-1110-oneiric.html#comment-form)

Followed this:
You can update your drivers with x-swat ppa and to install Nvidia card latest drivers use this ppa.

To install/Update Nvidia card drivers open Terminal (Press Alt+F2 and type: gnome-terminal) and copy the following commands in the terminal:    (or ssh in)

sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current

When installation complete restart your PC

Removed the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file I had created previous so there was no xorg.conf file.

Reboot came up to the Mythbuntu menu, all working.

Escape back to the XCFE desktop, with menus, working.

11.10 and Nvidia are a bear !

---

