---
title: "12.04, devinput and Hauppauge grey remote frustrations"
date: 2013-02-08
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by BigEdgar on 2013-02-08
I recently upgraded from 9.10 to 12.04 (I installed 12.04 on the same HW, but on a new partition so it's essentially a fresh install with the old DB restored). All is working well except for my trusty old Hauppauge remote control. My setup uses a PVR250 card with the integrated IR receiver. In the past, this has all run under LIRC. As of 10.04, it looks like support for remotes has been integrated into the Ubuntu kernel. 

Unfortunately, nothing I select in the MCC "just worked" for my remote, so I went in search of what could be wrong.  After some more searching, I find [COLOR="Blue"][this great tutorial on how to setup remotes using devinput]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1856731&page=2")[/COLOR] on Ubuntu (see post #16). I followed that and all works for me, except for the very last part - getting MythTV Frontend to respond to any commands. IRW works fine and I get the responses I expect, but when I fire up the MythTV FE, the only buttons that work are the arrow keys. 

I have the correct .lircrc file created (it's the one from the post above) and have it placed in the right spot. But I'm at a loss as to how to troubleshoot from here. Any ideas? How do I trace what's broken between IRW working fine but MythTV not working?


BTW, one final note - there's a [bug in 12.04 that has one of the LIRC packages in the wrong spot]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lirc/+bug/1004239") and the workaround doesn't work for me, so I've had to change /etc/lirc/hardware.conf from the  REMOTE_MODULES="lirc_dev lirc_i2c" to REMOTE_MODULES="ir_kbd_i2c lirc_dev" (removed the lirc_i2c, as that's the package that's not loading, but from what I've read that package has been subsumed by ir_kbd_i2c anyways, so it shouldn't be missed).

Anyways, thanks for any thoughts on how to troubleshoot further.

---

### Post by BigEdgar on 2013-02-09
Ok, here's some more info in case it helps.

Again, my main problem is that my remote seems to be sending signals fine and my IR receiver is interpreting them just fine, but my binding to MythTV is not working at all. Simply put, MythTV FE doesn't recognize any key presses from my remote.

The steps I took to get where I am are based on this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11657822&postcount=16](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11657822&postcount=16)

First, off I have lirc installed.

Second, let's see if the receiver is recognized:

```
$ cat /proc/bus/input/devices

I: Bus=0018 Vendor=0000 Product=0000 Version=0000
N: Name="i2c IR (Hauppauge)"
P: Phys=i2c-1/1-0018/ir0
S: Sysfs=/devices/virtual/rc/rc0/input5
U: Uniq=
H: Handlers=kbd event5
B: PROP=0
B: EV=100013
B: KEY=10afc312 214201700000000 0 118000 41a800004801 9e16c000000000 10000ffc
B: MSC=10
```

Great, we see that the IR receiver is recognized. Next, let's change our /etc/lirc/hardware.conf and make sure we 1) swap the lirc_i2c module for the ir-kbd-i2c module, 2) change the driver to devinput, 3) change the device to event5, and 4) swap the config file for the appropriate devinput file:

```
# comment out the lirc_i2c module, since lirc_i2c is no longer a part of the kernel and must be replaced by ir-kbd-i2c
#REMOTE_MODULES="lirc_dev lirc_i2c"
REMOTE_MODULES="lirc_dev ir-kbd-i2c"
# use devinput as the driver
REMOTE_DRIVER="devinput"
# comment out /dev/lirc0 and replace with the appropriate event number from above
#REMOTE_DEVICE="/dev/lirc0"
REMOTE_DEVICE="/dev/input/event5"
REMOTE_SOCKET=""
# Mythbuntu Control Center put this conf file here, but it doesn't play nicely with the devinput driver, so comment it out and replace 
#REMOTE_LIRCD_CONF="hauppauge/lircd.conf.hauppauge"
REMOTE_LIRCD_CONF="/usr/share/lirc/remotes/devinput/lircd.conf.devinput"
REMOTE_LIRCD_ARGS=""
```

Next, we'll change the /etc/lirc/lircd.conf to point to the config file for devinput. 

```
#Configuration for the Hauppauge TV card remote:
# Comment out the next line as it doesn't point to a file that's compatible with devinput, replace it with one that is
#include "/usr/share/lirc/extras/more_remotes/hauppauge/lircd.conf.hauppauge"
include "/usr/share/lirc/remotes/devinput/lircd.conf.devinput"
```

Now, let's restart lirc

```
$ sudo service lirc restart
 * Stopping remote control daemon(s): LIRC                                                                                                                                [ OK ]
 * Loading LIRC modules                                                                                                                                                   [ OK ]
 * Starting remote control daemon(s) : LIRC 
```

Great - lirc starts fine.  Now let's run IRW to test the remote:

```
$ irw
000000008001006c 00 KEY_DOWN devinput
0000000080010160 00 KEY_OK devinput
000000008001018e 00 KEY_RED devinput
0000000080010191 00 KEY_BLUE devinput
00000000800100a3 00 KEY_NEXTSONG devinput
00000000800100a5 00 KEY_PREVIOUSSONG devinput
0000000080010080 00 KEY_STOP devinput
00000000800100a7 00 KEY_RECORD devinput
```

Cool, all looks good so far. Now here is where the problems start. I'm supposed to next create a .lircrc that goes in the home directory of the user that starts the mythtv frontend. No matter which one I use, when I start the FE, the remote can't control the FE at all. None of the buttons work. I've even tried a super simple .lircrc file like the one below that only contains a single button:

```
# Start of .lircrc
begin
   prog = mythtv
   button = KEY_DOWN
   config = Down
end
# End of .lircrc
```


But even this simple file doesn't allow the down button on the remote to work. Any ideas what I might be doing wrong? Any ideas how I can troubleshoot the connection between lirc, which seems to be functioning fine, and the link to mythtv, which doesn't seem to be working?

Thanks!

---

### Post by PhilWig on 2013-02-10
All looks familiar until your file holding

> begin
   prog = mythtv
   button = KEY_DOWN
   config = Down
end

On my system it's in the file   ~/.lirc/mythtv

HTH
Phil

---

### Post by BigEdgar on 2013-02-11
Phil, I could hug you. That was it! 

For the sake of completeness, here's where I went wrong:

The [guide ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11657822&postcount=16")I was following indicated that I needed to create my mappings to myth in the .lircrc file and save that in my home directory. 

It turns out that Myth was looking for this config in the ~/.lirc/mythtv file. The one that's created by the mythbuntu-lirc-generator doesn't work with devinput, so you need to replace the  ~/.lirc/mythtv file with the one from the [guide]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11657822&postcount=16").

Once I replaced the ~/.lirc/mythtv file that was generated by mythbuntu-lirc-generator with a ~/.lirc/mythtv file containing the mappings from the guide, and restarted mythtv, all worked.

Thanks again for the help!

---

### Post by homeeey on 2013-02-13
Can I get directions for creating the ~/.lirc/mythtv file?

Thanks

so far so good, stuck at this step.

Nevermind, finally broke away from the family long enough to figure it out.  Thanks for all the great info!!!

---

