---
title: "11.04 Recording playback issue..."
date: 2011-05-01
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by iiwii on 2011-05-01
Greetings! I am new to this forum.  I tried searching for this problem or something similar to it and had no luck.  I registered just to post this...
 

 I am trying to run Mythbuntu 11.04 to record HD OTA.  While I have gotten to watch live tv I have had problems playing back recorded content.  I had to manually find the files and play them in VLC. I recorded 5-10 minutes of OTA HD but when it loaded up it only shows one frozen frame and VLC closes normally after only a few seconds. The file size is 811MB and smaller files (shorter recordings) have the same issue.  I copied the file to my Win7 system and it did the same thing in VLC.   
 

 I have only had this system installed and running for only about 24 hours now.  That should tell you how much of a Myth-noob I am.  I've used Ubuntu for the last year mainly as a file server.  I have some experience with linux but not as a HTPC.
 

 System:
 ASUS P5B + Core 2 Duo + 3GB Corsair
 Hauppauge HVR-1250
 640 GB Caviar Black (64MB cache)
 EVGA Geforce GT 520 (Nvidia Chipset)

---

### Post by jaakan on 2011-05-01
What happens when you schedule a recording, how does it playback? Do you have the mediabuntu repo added, plus all of the gstreamer plugins?

I'm running a Intel G43 Express Chipset ( X4500 ) for gfx+audio over HDMI, 3Gb, 250GB Sata, Hauppauge HVR-1250. I can do OTA or QAM cable, currently setup for QAM. my video res is set to 1920 x 1080p to my Sony 32in XBR9.

there is a setting to unhided Live-tv recordings so they show up in the recorded show list.

---

### Post by iiwii on 2011-05-01
I just finished a scheduled recording.  It plays within Myth and looks great!  Same problem as above still in VLC -- frozen frame and exits after a few seconds. 

Also, how do I check to see if I have the repo and plugins?  I seem to recall during install an option that added 3rd party or additional codecs -- I don't think that was for gstreamer though -- but I did check yes.

Thank you for the help by the way!  Every little bit gets me closer to my goal.

---

### Post by iiwii on 2011-05-01
Also forgot to mention earlier, VLC can't show how long the clip is.  It shows 00:00/00:00 on the counter.  Is the file (.mpeg) not closing properly and can I still close the open ones?

---

### Post by jaakan on 2011-05-01
here you go

[http://medibuntu.org/]("http://medibuntu.org/")

add the libs with "extra" , and mplayer ( you'll beable to play more formats )

for mythweb
there is option to convert to flash so you don't need an extra player


I think VLC is the issue or something else... but I can stream with VLC on my Laptop running ubuntu. I'll try it on my GF's Laptop ( Windows Vista ) with VLC when I have a chance. 

look for another player that can play MPEG2
like mplayer for linux and smplayer for windows

[http://smplayer.sourceforge.net/]("http://smplayer.sourceforge.net/")

---

### Post by iiwii on 2011-05-02
Thanks for the tip. I will try it soon. I was hoping to get this working without having to install too much additional software. 

Today is a little different.  I did not do any recordings but the LiveTV mpeg files open and play fine under VLC (still shows 00:00 on the counter).  This was after a couple hours scanning various QAM settings and FINALLY finding the one channel (my local ABC-HD) I wasn't getting.  The source would be different also from the first recordings I made, they were OTA and the LiveTV is QAM --  I wonder if this made a difference...

---

### Post by iiwii on 2011-05-04
Well, I never found the exact cause of this and I can't say I really changed anything either, but it seems to be working fine now.  Today I custom scheduled 5 recordings while at work and 4 out of 5 worked and playback within the Media Manager and in VLC.  The 4th scheduled recording didn't create a file and says "Recorder Failed". 

Thanks again for the input! I'm working on a sort of a "Case Study" (for the lack of a better term) in my experience with MythBuntu.  I'll probably publish it in a couple of months when I get the system working the way I want it to -- now I have to work on wireless, remote control, and maybe figure out how to get the system to auto transcode and sleep in-between scheduled recordings (if possible).

---

### Post by nickrout on 2011-05-04
> **iiwii said:**
> Well, I never found the exact cause of this and I can't say I really changed anything either, but it seems to be working fine now.  Today I custom scheduled 5 recordings while at work and 4 out of 5 worked and playback within the Media Manager and in VLC.  The 4th scheduled recording didn't create a file and says "Recorder Failed". 

Thanks again for the input! I'm working on a sort of a "Case Study" (for the lack of a better term) in my experience with MythBuntu.  I'll probably publish it in a couple of months when I get the system working the way I want it to -- now I have to work on wireless, remote control, and maybe figure out how to get the system to auto transcode and sleep in-between scheduled recordings (if possible).

Wireless is pretty hopeless for streaming video. I would avoid it at all costs. Some people have succes with 802.11n but it is very dependent on how many of your neighbours and microwaves and cordless phones etc etc are interfering with it.

Not sure why you are wanting to use vlc, there are frontends available for windows too :)

---

### Post by LowSky on 2011-05-05
If VLC is a problem on Windows use XBMC it has a mythtv plugin.

Wireless is always a problem  if you don't have 802.11n forget about streaming wirelessly. Wireless G which is still very much the standard in many PC's can't handle HD video. Wireless N usually connects anywhere from 100 Mbps to 300 Mbps if you are close to the router and does a much better job. Even still a wired connection will beat wifi any day of the week

---

### Post by iiwii on 2011-05-11
> **nickrout said:**
> Wireless is pretty hopeless for streaming video. I would avoid it at all costs. Some people have succes with 802.11n but it is very dependent on how many of your neighbours and microwaves and cordless phones etc etc are interfering with it.

Not sure why you are wanting to use vlc, there are frontends available for windows too :)

I only need wireless to get on the internet and move files to another computer if I want to make a backup.  VLC came with Mythbuntu so I use it by default just to test the files outside of Mythbuntu's media Manager.  I bought a Edimax USB dongle which reviewers said it worked in Ubuntu (32-Bit) but I had no luck with it.  So, I've still got this long cord running from the living room to my wireless router. I can live with the cord though. Wireless is on the back burner for now.

---

