---
title: "12.04LTS HVR 1600 IR remote Nvidia dual head setup"
date: 2013-04-20
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by qsilver7 on 2013-04-20
This seems to be an unpopular card, but once I figured it out, it works great and it was quite simple. I'll do a quick walk thru of what worked for me if it's of any help to anyone

During setup choose Hauppauge card under lirc,
Once installed, update manager will inform you of pending updates. Update manager kept hanging on me at samba. Avoid this by using terminal to update instead 
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
Upgrade reported a locally modified samba config. I chose to keep it. your choice.

With Nvidia dual head, before changing from the default driver, you will need to allocate more virtual memory.
sudo apt-get install gedit
sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
I added 256MB to this line. They say lower is better, so you can try 192M as well.
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash vmalloc=256MB"
Save your changes and then 
sudo update-grub
Now you can go into Mythbuntu Control Center and change your video driver. 

For the 1600 remote there was a lot of reading, but Jay's post got me there. Lirc-zilog is already installed in 12.04, you just need to load it.
One thing that came up in several post and is worth mentioning -Make sure the remote is plugged ALL the way in. It must sit flush with the card.
From Jays post, all I needed was
[HTML]
http://jaysdesktop.blogspot.ca/2012/06/configuring-lirc-for-hvr-1600-in-ubuntu.html


To load the module: 
sudo modprobe lirc_zilog


If all was successful, you shouldn't get any errors. At this point, you should be able to do 
lsmod | grep -i lirc_zilog 
and see:


lirc_dev               19204  1 lirc_zilog
[/HTML]
My message was 2 lines and slightly different numbers, but it was loaded
To get the remote to run in Mythbuntu change
sudo gedit /etc/lirc/hardware.conf
then change

REMOTE_MODULES="lirc_dev lirc_zilog"

and save it


Under card setup, digital scanned OTA channels fine, but my analog cable scan came up empty. I just used the "retrieve lineup" from card setup and the channels populated and work fine.

I'm a newb, so if this doesn't work, I can't give you any suggestions.
Good luck

---

