---
title: "8.10 hangs during network transfers"
date: 2009-02-24
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by loupalladino on 2009-02-24
Hi
I had this strange problem with 8.04 kubuntu, but I thought it was something with that install.  It appears as though it is not.  During any sustained network transfer either to or from my myth box (full patched 8.10 install), the box dies/freezes.  I can do all sorts of local encoding, disk-to-disk file transfers, etc. and the box is fine.  The second I do an scp, smb, or nfs file transfer, a few seconds in the box freezes.  I was using a 3com 905x integrated NIC, but switched to a standard Intel 10/100 S/Pro adapter.  The problem persists regardless of the card I use.  All other parts of the box work great - MythTV, capturing, etc.  The logs contain nothing - just the time stamps and then when I have to hit reset.  lspci listing below.
Any help would be terrific!
-Lou

00:00.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] AMD-760 MP [IGD4-2P] System Controller (rev 11)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] AMD-760 MP [IGD4-2P] AGP Bridge
00:07.0 ISA bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] AMD-768 [Opus] ISA (rev 05)
00:07.1 IDE interface: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] AMD-768 [Opus] IDE (rev 04)
00:07.3 Bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] AMD-768 [Opus] ACPI (rev 03)
00:10.0 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] AMD-768 [Opus] PCI (rev 05)
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400] (rev b2)
02:00.0 USB Controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] AMD-768 [Opus] USB (rev 07)
02:04.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82557/8/9/0/1 Ethernet Pro 100 (rev 0c)
02:05.0 Multimedia audio controller: Creative Labs SB Live! EMU10k1 (rev 07)
02:05.1 Input device controller: Creative Labs SB Live! Game Port (rev 07)
02:07.0 Multimedia video controller: Internext Compression Inc iTVC15 MPEG-2 Encoder (rev 01)
02:08.0 Ethernet controller: 3Com Corporation 3c905C-TX/TX-M [Tornado] (rev 78

---

### Post by TMcC on 2009-02-25
Please can you post (as an attachment) contents of the /var/log/kern.log, /var/log/syslog and /var/log/messages?

---

### Post by loupalladino on 2009-02-25
Here ya go.

---

### Post by loupalladino on 2009-02-26
I think I might have the answer, not sure why I didn't think of it sooner.  I upgraded the box from 512MB of RAM to 4GB; took out a 512M chip and put in 4x 1G chips.  I am pretty sure that this behavior was not present prior to the RAM upgrade.  I am going to test this theory out tonite and post back.
Thanks.

---

### Post by loupalladino on 2009-02-26
Ok - so I put back in the original 512M chip and the box still freezes.  I thought of one other piece of hardware that I added (an 80G hard disk), so I yanked that and tried.  This time, it almost finished a 1.08G transfer, but stopped at 900MB then died.

---

### Post by loupalladino on 2009-02-27
More updates...
I booted into an Ubuntu Live CD (8.04) and I could copy stuff no problem - disk to disk, network, etc.  So I figured it has to be the OS install, right?

Well... I re-load 8.10, and skip some of the config stuff.  Why do it when I'm just testing... first thing I did was copy stuff on the network.  It froze!

So then I tried 8.04... first couple tries, it seemed to have resolved the issues.  But then doing a disk to disk froze the machine and ever after that, it froze over the network again.

So I have no clue what the heck is going on.  You could say I have hardware problems, but that doesn't explain why the Live CD works... My next step is to replace the hard drive and see if that yields better results.  After that?  Well... I guess I'm on to Tivo?

So frustrating that the Myth part works great - records, database info, guide, etc.  But something so stupid like pull the data off the box is broken.

---

### Post by Mister.Vash on 2009-02-28
Couple of suggestions

can you get the results from lsmod ?  From both the live cd and from the version loaded on your system.  Compare those and see if anything is being loaded on one and not the other.

Also, you mentioned an integrated nic card - have you disabled this in the bios?  If you haven't go ahead and try doing that.  If you have already done so, have you done a reset - some of the are called reset to failsafe mode or reset to factory defaults.  Just take note of the current settings before you do that.  - you may also want to take a look and see if you can find a bios update for your motherboard, read the release notes and see if they have a newer version that describes a fix for the same/similar issues

Also, how are you transferring files over the network?  Samba, NFS, other?  If you have tried sabma, do you have the ability to try NFS or vice versa?  

Any idea on what is happening on the other machine when you do the transfer?  Have you monitored that to see if it is doing something odd such as dropping your connection?

Just a few thoughts on areas to look at

---

### Post by Mister.Vash on 2009-02-28
One Final thing I just thought of.  When you boot the Live CD, are you mounting this existing disk and doing a file transfer from the same ones that you use when you do the regular boot?  If that works, then it's mostly likely not a bad piece of hardware, if it does the same thing, then it's probably hardware related

---

### Post by loupalladino on 2009-02-28
Hey
It was a long, long nite but I found out a bunch more about the box.  Normally, it would hang 200M to 500M into file transfers.  I can't ever remember it going longer than that.  So when I would boot with the Live CD, I would transfer 1G files tops... 1 or 2 of them.  And to answer your question - yes, it is from the same hard drives as the regular system.  But last nite I decided to pull all the data off and re-build yet again.  But even in the live CD, it started freezing... It took about 3GB of data transfer before it did, but it finally did.  This conclusively points to some piece of hardware in the system.  Just to answer your other question about which network protocols I tried using, it was pretty much all of them - NFS, SMB, FTP, SCP, etc.
So today my task is to fire up another box, though a little less powerful than the one that is freezing :(  but still powerful enough for Myth.  I will be going from 2x 1.66 Athlons with 4GB of RAM to 2x 1GHz P3s with 1GB of RAM.
I really really appreciate your comments... I've wasted tons of time trying to figure this out and I appreciate the few minutes of thought you put in.  Eventually I'd like to figure out what is wrong with the other box, and that will probably include a sh*tload of updates - firmware, BIOS, etc.
Thanks, and wish me luck.
-Lou

---

### Post by LightI3ulb on 2009-03-02
I had/have a similar issue from my laptop to my desktop, both with Ubuntu 8.10.  I first noticed it with Samba, my network would freeze on any file copy and would require the computer to be rebooted to recover network functionality.  Then I tried using Unison with ssh, and kept getting disconnects.  After a couple of months, I believe I've finally narrowed it down to TCP offloading on the laptop.

I suggest downloading ethtool and running:

ethtool -k eth0

You should see something like this:

Offload parameters for eth0:
rx-checksumming: on
tx-checksumming: on
scatter-gather: on
tcp segmentation offload: off
udp fragmentation offload: off
generic segmentation offload: on


Type:

ethtool --offload eth0 tx off rx off

Try copying some files and see what happens.  Hope it works for you!

---

### Post by tbaca on 2009-03-06
I had the same problems.  In the end, I switched from XFS to EXT3 for root and JFS for storage; problem went away.

---

