---
title: "7.10 package availability at repository after EOS date"
date: 2009-03-30
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by klc5555 on 2009-03-30
7.10 hits its announced end-of-service later this month.

I've noticed that packages.ubuntu.com no longer indexes packages even from 7.04. Which leads to the question --how long are the 7.10 updates, fixes, and backports issued before the EOS likely to continue to be available from the Ubuntu repository for download and installation?

In other words, if a meltdown happens to a 7.10 system a few months from now that necessitates a reinstallation, will 7.10 files beyond the original 7.10 *.iso image be available? 

If the packages will likely not be available, is there a reasonable way to use apt-get or similar tools now to assemble a local repository of the final complete set 7.10 packages? It ought to be doable, but I haven't found a real clear methodology yet for compiling a local archive of this sort.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-03-30
Run a search for apt on CD.  I know I have seen it somewhere.

You can burn them that way and enable updates from CD in your update manager.  It is really set up for people with slow dial up.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2009-03-31
I think that they move stuff like this to old-releases.ubuntu.com

---

### Post by klc5555 on 2009-03-31
> **superm1 said:**
> I think that they move stuff like this to old-releases.ubuntu.com

You're right! Thanks! Everything for 7.04 is there, so I expect that all of 7.10 will also end up there shortly. 

Now I feel much better about 7.10's end-of-service date.

Cheers! :)

---

