---
title: "8.04 - how to change location of recordings?"
date: 2008-03-24
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by arjay1 on 2008-03-24
I am running 8.04 beta.  I want to change the default location of recordings from /var/lib to my /home/name/recordings.  I thought under previous versions, you set the location for recordings in the backend setup under General.

I have searched everywhere i can think of but can't find it.  Can anyone put me out of my misery - I must be doing something silly.  I have found and changed the defaults for videos, images, and music, but where do I change recordings?

TIA

---

### Post by jakev383 on 2008-03-24
I have not tried 8.04 yet, but you could try the old symlink method. I used it when I purchased a bigger drive for my recordings and wanted to get back up an running quickly. Just symlink he old dir to the new (with mythbackend stopped) and then start it back up.

---

### Post by nasha on 2008-03-24
Storage groups in the mythtv-setup. New feature to mythtv 0.21, makes changing folders, and adding drives a breeze

---

### Post by arjay1 on 2008-03-26
> **jakev383 said:**
> I have not tried 8.04 yet, but you could try the old symlink method. I used it when I purchased a bigger drive for my recordings and wanted to get back up an running quickly. Just symlink he old dir to the new (with mythbackend stopped) and then start it back up.

Thanks for the tip. When I have a couple of other problems sorted out I will give it a try.

---

### Post by arjay1 on 2008-03-26
> **nasha said:**
> Storage groups in the mythtv-setup. New feature to mythtv 0.21, makes changing folders, and adding drives a breeze

Might be a breeze for you but for newbies it isn't (at least this one).  I tried to setup an alternative location for my recordings but just stuffed up.  It was a breeze before in 0.20.  You just had to click on "Location for recordings" and fill in /home/richard/recordings - that is what I call a breeze!! What was wrong with that?  Haven't had a chance to see if there is any guide yet for 8.0.4 but some of it is beyond me - check out the hidden directions for playback interlacing for instance!!  CPU, CPU+, and CPU++ - what is all that.  I can make an intelligent guess - but that is about all.

If I thought that support would continue for 0.20 - I would happily stick with that!  All progress is not necessarily good.  I know this software is developed by good people in their spare time and I am full of admiration.  But I think some "usability" testing with NAIVE  users (as opposed to old hands) would surprise the developers.

I see, and appreciate, the constant call for more features (if I had a RAID array of 10 drives, then storage facilities would be on my list too <g>) but a balance has to be struck between added complications for new users and more features.  Quite a few packages now offer a beginners and an experts install.  That might help here  Then pop-up tool-tips that suggested - "do you want to improve your picture by a), b) or c).  If Yes, do X,Y, or Z".  Now if I could write that sort of thing I would gladly help out!!  Sadly I am just a naive user....

RJ

---

### Post by laga on 2008-03-26
> **arjay1 said:**
>  It was a breeze before in 0.20.  You just had to click on "Location for recordings" and fill in /home/richard/recordings - that is what I call a breeze!! What was wrong with that?


[http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/Storage_Groups](http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/Storage_Groups)

> 
Haven't had a chance to see if there is any guide yet for 8.0.4 but some of it is beyond me - check out the hidden directions for playback interlacing for instance!!  CPU, CPU+, and CPU++ - what is all that.  I can make an intelligent guess - but that is about all.


[http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/Playback_profiles](http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/Playback_profiles)

> 
But I think some "usability" testing with NAIVE  users (as opposed to old hands) would surprise the developers.


Interesting.. let's see what you wrote earlier:

> 
Haven't had a chance to see if there is any guide yet for 8.0.4 but some of it is beyond me


I'm simply amazed. You're complaining without bothering to look for documentation? Documentation which is easily accessible on the MythTV wiki? Also note that you're complaining about a *beta* release...

> 
Now if I could write that sort of thing I would gladly help out!!  Sadly I am just a naive user....


Everyone started as a naive user. You can help out by writing documentation or learn to code and submit a patch to the MythTV project..

---

### Post by arjay1 on 2008-03-26
Sorry about that - I was rather caught on the hop when looking for a guide - because the install of 8.0.4 crashed on me and, without a desktop, it was a bit difficult to go online for a guide!

I wasn't able to get to another machine for a couple of days but will follow up your link.

Thnx for that.

---

