---
title: "7.10 live tv goes into slow-mo on new install"
date: 2008-03-28
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by drake3 on 2008-03-28
Hi,

I am a beginner to the DIY PVR project.  I am testing out some options and installed 7.10 on 2 machines.  The first one is a Dell Precision 380 workstation at home.  This machine is a 3.4 Pent. D with 1GB.  I am not testing HD, just SD TV with an ATI TV VE PCI card I had lying around.  I checked the compatibility list and it seems like this card should work without much fuss for a simple test.

The problem is that once I go to watch live TV it will play fine for what seems like a random amount of time - usually less than 20 seconds and then it switches into slow motion.  The sound is fine, but it is coming directly out of the TV card.  I thought it may be an issue with the video card.  I first had an ATI 2400 XT, that did not work very well.  Then I switched to an Nvidia 8600GS - had a large white frame around the picture and was not recognized on boot by Unbuntu.  Then I finally switched to a GeForce 6 PCIe card which works the best.  (I have a good amount of spare parts from work to test with.)

I am not sure what is going on with the Dell, but then I took the ATI TV card to work and put it into an AMD/VIA based system with an AGP video card.  I don't have cable at work so I hooked it up to a VCR I had sitting in my lab and it seems to work much better than the faster Dell workstation at home.

I searched the forums and google, but did not find anything exactly that fits the problem.  I looked into the frontend and backend logs.  There are entries in the backend log about "unknown video codec", but I am not sure if this is because the ATI framegrabber card is misconfigured.  I really would like to get a working system on the Dell I have a home.  Then I could feel better about going out and buying some better capture hardware.

Thanks in advance for any help!

---

### Post by foxbuntu on 2008-03-28
the ATI TV VE card, though (sort of) supported has not seen good results. ATI cards in general atm (and this should be changing soon) have support issues. I would suggest trying a different card (one with hardware encoding, i.e. PVR-150MCE)

---

### Post by drake3 on 2008-03-28
OK,

I just ordered a PVR 350 from NewEgg.  I will give that a shot and see how it goes.  

Thanks for the reply.

---

