---
title: ".21 mythweb questions"
date: 2008-03-13
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by elj4176 on 2008-03-13
I just upgraded to .21 and have some questions regarding the new mythweb features:

1 - what is the purpose of the 'Remotes' function? Maybe it is intended for a certain type of setup but I see no use for for my setup (one master BE and a couple of non-dedicated FE's) . So please enlighten me in case I am missing the point.

2 - the .asx stream doesn't work for me at all. I have tried several browsers (even IE) and it returns a 401 error. I use a non-standard port (but not ssl) with login needed to access mythweb. I have set the port in mythweb and check (and in-checked) force http - with no luck. I tried the flash stream too but that didn't work either. Anyone else run into these issues and how did you fix them?

I even tried pasting the link into vlc but it did not work. The url has the correct port too. VLC prompted me for a login and I filled in my mythweb credentials but it popped up the login box again.

I really like the new look and features of the .21 release and I would like it even more if I can get streaming to work (asx or flash).

---

### Post by Calash on 2008-03-13
So far the only benefit I see for the Remote function is that you get a virtual keyboard for your setup.  If you do not have a keyboard on it and need to do some of the more typing intensive setups it helps a bit.

I have a wireless keyboard myself so I get no use out of it, but it was cool to play with for a bit.

---

### Post by elj4176 on 2008-03-13
ok that makes more sense. Now how do I remove it from mythweb? That was rhetorical - I'll figure it out ;)

---

### Post by elj4176 on 2008-03-14
I'm still having trouble with the streaming. I use a non-standard port and authentication. I've changed the mythweb.conf.apache in the /var/www/mythweb dir to point to my mythweb-htdigest file but I still cannot get the asx, music or flash streaming to work properly from outside of my local network.
Flash streaming worked briefly when inside the local network but will not work from outside.

Another thing I noticed is that when I tried the new transcode function in mythweb it created 4 more png files but none of them show anywhere in mythweb now (its a blank png file next to the recording description).

It did try to stream music to amarok but didn't like the stream and wouldn't play it.

These functions will not make or break my mythweb experience but would be nice to have them working.

---

### Post by mcsmith on 2008-03-14
After upgrading to 0.21, mythweb won't run.  I get the following at the top of my browser window:

> Error at /var/www/mythweb/includes/mythbackend.php, line 167:
Incompatible protocol version (mythweb=31, backend=40)

I've try re-installing mythweb, but that didn't help.  How do I get the protocols sync'ed?

Thanks,

Mike

---

### Post by elj4176 on 2008-03-14
Did you upgrade to .21 on both the frontend and backend machines?

---

### Post by nasha on 2008-03-15
Mike:
It appears for some reason mythweb hasn't updated to 0.21
```
sudo apt-get upgrade mythweb
```
Should solve your problems

---

### Post by elj4176 on 2008-03-17
Now mythweb is showing a comflag job as 99% complete but it has been 99% for several hours.
I did:
ps ax | grep myth

and didn't see anything relating to a comflag job so I don't think it is still running - but mythweb thinks it is. I really do not want to reboot the machine just to get rid of this - I'd rather figure out what caused it.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by elj4176 on 2008-03-20
I fixed it by removing the job in the job queue through phpmyadmin.

New problem now - my browser of choice is Opera and it has always worked perfectly fine with mythweb until this morning. When scheduling a new recording the 'Schedule Options' box is huge and is now below the channel num and episode info box. These 2 boxes used to be side-by-side and still are in Firefox. 
If I switch to the 'lite' version of mythweb then it works fine but I don't want the 'lite' version. 

How do I fix this so that Opera displays it correctly again?

---

### Post by mcsmith on 2008-03-20
Nasha,

I had upgraded to 0.21 on both the frontend and backend.

elj4176,

I did the apt-get upgrade, to no effect.

The packages I have installed are:

```

mcsmith@xw6000:~$ dpkg --list | grep "myth"
rc  libmyth-0.20                               0.20.2-0ubuntu10.1                   Common library code for MythTV and add-on mo
ii  libmyth-0.21-0                             0.21.0-0ubuntu2~gutsy1               Common library code for MythTV and add-on mo
ii  libmyth-perl                               0.21.0-0ubuntu2~gutsy1               A PERL library to access some MythTV feature
ii  mythtv                                     0.21.0-0ubuntu2~gutsy1               A personal video recorder application (clien
ii  mythtv-backend                             0.21.0-0ubuntu2~gutsy1               A personal video recorder application (serve
ii  mythtv-common                              0.21.0-0ubuntu2~gutsy1               A personal video recorder application (commo
ii  mythtv-database                            0.21.0-0ubuntu2~gutsy1               A personal video recorder application (datab
ii  mythtv-doc                                 0.21.0-0ubuntu2~gutsy1               A personal video recorder application (docum
ii  mythtv-frontend                            0.21.0-0ubuntu2~gutsy1               A personal video recorder application (clien
ii  mythtv-theme-mythcenter-wide               0.21.0-0ubuntu1~gutsy1               The MythCenter Wide MythTV Theme
ii  mythtv-themes                              0.21.0-0ubuntu1~gutsy1               Additional themes metapackage for MythTV
ii  mythtv-transcode-utils                     0.21.0-0ubuntu2~gutsy1               Utilities used for transcoding MythTV tasks
ii  mythweb                                    0.21.0-0ubuntu2~gutsy1               Web interface add-on module for MythTV
mcsmith@xw6000:~$ 

```

---

### Post by mcsmith on 2008-03-25
I went as far as uninstalling the entire myth* set of packages from my system, and then reinstalling.  The problem persisted.  I then uninstalled mythweb and found that the /var/www/mythweb directory was still there.  I manually deleted it, and then re-installed mythweb.  This time, rather than installing the mythweb stuff directly in /var/www, it created a symbolic link to the "real" location.  So, the previous stuff in /var/www/mythweb was the old 0.31 protocol, while the new stuff was residing in /usr/share/mythtv/mythweb.  It was just being ignored.

Hope this explanation helps someone else downstream.

Thanks to all who offered suggestions earlier.

Regards,

Mike

---

### Post by process91 on 2008-03-27
> **mcsmith said:**
> I went as far as uninstalling the entire myth* set of packages from my system, and then reinstalling.  The problem persisted.  I then uninstalled mythweb and found that the /var/www/mythweb directory was still there.  I manually deleted it, and then re-installed mythweb.  This time, rather than installing the mythweb stuff directly in /var/www, it created a symbolic link to the "real" location.  So, the previous stuff in /var/www/mythweb was the old 0.31 protocol, while the new stuff was residing in /usr/share/mythtv/mythweb.  It was just being ignored.

Hope this explanation helps someone else downstream.

Thanks to all who offered suggestions earlier.

Regards,

Mike

You need to do a dist-upgrade. If you do a sudo apt-get upgrade and some packages are being "held back", then it won't upgrade those packages for dependency reasons. Try this.

```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

---

### Post by mcsmith on 2008-03-27
I believe that all my updates were done with either update-manager or synaptic.

---

### Post by process91 on 2008-03-28
It's still possible to have broken packages. If you type

```
sudo apt-get -s dist-upgrade
```

It will just show you what the dist-upgrade will do without actually doing it.

---

