---
title: "9.10 question about recording over FIREWIRE"
date: 2009-11-22
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by stratoscape on 2009-11-22
Hello,

first I gotta say setup for firewire in 9.10 is AWESOME, If I saw this setup on the shelf I would even PAY FOR IT! PERIOD!

about my setup, I have twin SA4250HDC STB's (firewire daisy chained) and a Hauppauge PVR-500 card which is standard def and still works fine (only using for standard def cable recording). 

Despite *ALL* test failing during my setup for the firewire setup I soon realized from reading updated wiki's (well the notices atleast) that some of these steps are no longer necessary so I just went into mythtv and *POOF* there was a picture clear as day (BEAUTIFUL TOO)

I still have a laundry list of questions and not being a native linux user I dont know where to turn.

1) 
even though I can watch "available" content over firewire I cant seem to record it. I just get a distorted picture and now wonder if "firewire priming" is required or has this been somehow built in (I'm recording something, just can't see it, it's all distorted) OR horsepower 3.2Mhz, P4 Intel

2)
Cannot switch between sources (i.e. firewire 1, firewire 2, tuner 1, tuner 2, I read that this should be done by hitting "c" or "y" but neither work for me.

3)
Since unable to switch or test firewire using "firewire_tester" only way to see if working is to remove PVR-500 so firewire is only source in machine then can still view live "available HD" content

results from "Plugreport"
Host Adapter 0
==============

Node 0 GUID 0x00019900000a408f
------------------------------
libiec61883 error: error reading oMPR
libiec61883 error: error reading iMPR

Node 1 GUID 0x001xxxxxxxxx0000
------------------------------
oMPR n_plugs=1, data_rate=2, bcast_channel=63
oPCR[0] online=1, bcast_connection=0, n_p2p_connections=1
	channel=0, data_rate=2, overhead_id=0, payload=146
iMPR n_plugs=0, data_rate=2

Node 2 GUID 0x001xxxxxxxxx0000
------------------------------
oMPR n_plugs=1, data_rate=2, bcast_channel=63
oPCR[0] online=1, bcast_connection=0, n_p2p_connections=1
	channel=0, data_rate=2, overhead_id=0, payload=146
iMPR n_plugs=0, data_rate=2

-------------------------------
lsmod|grep 1394
eth1394                15488  0 
raw1394                25308  0 
dv1394                 17596  0 
ohci1394               29900  1 dv1394
ieee1394               86596  4 eth1394,raw1394,dv1394,ohci1394
---------------------------------
lspci
05:00.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Agere Systems FW322/323 (rev 61)
05:01.0 PCI bridge: Hint Corp HB6 Universal PCI-PCI bridge (non-transparent mode) (rev 11)
06:08.0 Multimedia video controller: Internext Compression Inc iTVC16 (CX23416) MPEG-2 Encoder (rev 01)
06:09.0 Multimedia video controller: Internext Compression Inc iTVC16 (CX23416) MPEG-2 Encoder (rev 01)
---------------------------------------

---

### Post by williammanda on 2009-11-22
> **stratoscape said:**
> 
2)
Cannot switch between sources (i.e. firewire 1, firewire 2, tuner 1, tuner 2, I read that this should be done by hitting "c" or "y" but neither work for me.


When viewing live tv select the "m" key then select "switch input" to select between tuners.

---

### Post by stratoscape on 2009-11-22
Awesome! 

Thanks, this is good news and bad :o(
I can now switch between sources but the bad is my system HATES the switch. now when I jump from firewire 1 to firewire 2 the picture is a mess (like something is out of sync) only way to get picture stable is to reboot BUT changing channels is no problem just.

still wondering if... 

a) port needs to be "primed" inbetween source switches

b) need to wire directly 1-to-1 to firewire ports instead of "Daisy Chain" the from STB1 ->STB2->firewire card

c) is my system underpowered for this (P4 3.2Mhz, 1GB mem)

Thanks,

Strato

---

### Post by stratoscape on 2009-11-22
Is there documentation on getting sound while viewing and/or Iecording over firewire.awesome picture just no sound

thanks

---

