---
title: "(0.22) video doesn't fill the whole screen"
date: 2009-09-05
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Nirro on 2009-09-05
I have a problem with 0.22 that I didn't have in 0.21.
When watching TV or even DVD, the video doesn't cover the whole screen, and I still see 2 black bars in the sides. That's not an aspect ratio problem, the aspect is correct at 16:9, it's just a zoom problem.

I tried to use the option to horizontally strech the video, but it does a funny thing. It streches the movie so I don't see the left and right edges of the movie, but still leaves the black bars...

Anyone has an idea what's the problem ?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Nirro on 2009-09-11
bumping up.
anyone has an idea ?

Thanks

---

### Post by dsbw on 2009-09-12
I'm not using .22 but I don't quite get what you mean.

That is, if the aspect ratio is correct, and you have black bars on the side (but not the top) then zooming to fill the screen wil cause the tops and bottoms to be chopped off. 

Right?

---

### Post by Nirro on 2009-09-14
I mean, in the playback settings, there is a possibility to zoom only horizontally or vertically.

So I tried to zoom horizontally there, but when I do that- the black bars stays on (they don't zoom), but the picture zooms inside horizontally (so I start to loose the right and left sides of the picture but still see the black bars).

When I zoom-in inside the LiveTV screen (manual zoom using the pagedn bindkey), it zooms both horizontally and vertically, and zoom differently with the whole picture (including the black bars), so the black bars disapears and I also start to loose picture from top and bottom, like you said.

So I had an idea to zoom-_out vertically_ from the menu, and them zoom-in manually in the LiveTV screen to compensate, but I couldn't find a way to make the manual zoom to stay on when I exit LiveTV and getting back in...

Finally I found out that using the zoom option "Half" in the settings, solves the problem for me, but it's strange, because I didn't have this problem in 0.21.

---

