---
title: "9.10 beta installation is a mess."
date: 2009-10-03
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by finlay648 on 2009-10-03
I tried installing 9.10 beta but the display is larger than my screen because of some weird mode that the display driver gets into. I have an Nvidia IGP and a 1920x1200 display. I tried using safe graphics mode but it didn't seem to take.

I finally managed to work thru the installation by assuming that the OK button (or whatever) would be activated by pressing the Enter key. After the installation it was supposed to restart but just hung (I was expecting a message to press Enter to continue after the CD tray popped out).

I finally had to press the reset button to get it to reboot. As it tried to reboot it got to the point where it should have rebooted and it hung after displaying the message "Geom Error". WTF!

John

---

### Post by Cresho on 2009-10-03
dont worry, its beta!

i couldnt mount my drives without using a terminal in my case.  Nautilus dolphin in kde has the computer invisible.  Nautilus is visible and i can access.

Many bugs but it is coming along nicely.

---

### Post by finlay648 on 2009-10-04
> **Cresho said:**
> dont worry, its beta!

i couldnt mount my drives without using a terminal in my case.  Nautilus dolphin in kde has the computer invisible.  Nautilus is visible and i can access.

Many bugs but it is coming along nicely.

I expect beta to at least install and boot. 9.10 is way off the standard of previous betas.

---

