---
title: "cant get mythweb to work"
date: 2007-10-25
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by zeltak on 2007-10-25
hi all 

Everything works perfectly (well almost...:)) in the final release. i switched from mythdora and it is much faster , i love it (no to say mythdora was bad!). One thing i cant get to work is mythweb. i get this page that says index of and then apache as a link. other then that nothing. it used to work flawlessly before on my previous machine. can any one help?

thx for this really great distro!

Zeltak

---

### Post by leftfield technology on 2007-10-25
Have you added /mythweb to the end of your IP? eg. 192.168.1.1/mythweb

---

### Post by p$y on 2007-10-25
I have a problem, too. Don't know if I should start a new thread.

I connect to my mythbuntu box but apache2 says:
> root@tv:/home/simon# /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
 * Restarting web server apache2                                                apache2: apr_sockaddr_info_get() failed for tv
apache2: Could not reliably determine the server's fully qualified domain name, using 127.0.0.1 for ServerName
apache2: apr_sockaddr_info_get() failed for tv
apache2: Could not reliably determine the server's fully qualified domain name, using 127.0.0.1 for ServerName


and mythweb says:
> Database Access Denied

You are most likely receiving this message because you
have failed to configure mythweb's database login info.

Please see .htaccess for instructions.
 
It doesn't matter if I have set a password or not.

Other things like munin or phpsysinfo works :confused:

---

### Post by p$y on 2007-10-25
ok I fixed the apache2 error by editing /etc/hosts to:
> 
127.0.0.1 localhost.localdomain localhost
127.0.1.1 tv.lan tv


first it looked like this
> 
127.0.0.1 localhost
127.0.1.1 tv


but I am unable to connect to mythweb, I have executed dpkg-reconfigure mythweb, but still not working...

---

### Post by p$y on 2007-10-25
ok now I resolved the problem, the password in /etc/mythtv/mythweb-htaccess was not the same like in /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt and everytime I run dpkg-reconfigure mythweb the password will be replaced with a wrong one :-/

---

### Post by zeltak on 2007-10-25
thx for the answers

i did try it with the mythweb at the end but i get the error message of database denied. i guess it has to do with the htaccess  and mysql.txt, yet i have no idea of how to change it...

thx 

Zeltak

---

### Post by superm1 on 2007-10-25
> **zeltak said:**
> thx for the answers

i did try it with the mythweb at the end but i get the error message of database denied. i guess it has to do with the htaccess  and mysql.txt, yet i have no idea of how to change it...

thx 

Zeltak
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure mythweb
```

---

### Post by superm1 on 2007-10-25
> **p$y said:**
> ok now I resolved the problem, the password in /etc/mythtv/mythweb-htaccess was not the same like in /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt and everytime I run dpkg-reconfigure mythweb the password will be replaced with a wrong one :-/

Reconfigure mythtv-common and put the right info in.  Then reconfigure mythweb.

---

### Post by neutron68 on 2007-10-30
Based on the message by p$y, I just changed the database password line in the file /etc/mythtv/mythweb-htaccess to the correct password, which is listed in the file /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt.  That password seems to be autogenerated by Mythbuntu setup, since I didn't get asked for one and didn't manually force one.  Based on that post, I did NOT run the dpkg-reconfigure command, as it is reported to screw up what I just fixed!

I had already set a username and password for mythweb in the Mythbuntu Control Center so I didn't need to redo that.

Also, you do need to point your browser to "IP ADDRESS"/mythweb and then it works.  Pointing to just "IP ADDRESS" like I've done in Knoppmyth doesn't work in Mythbuntu.  I guess the Knoppmyth boys put a redirect in to do the work for you.

**This password bug is still something that should be fixed in the Mythbuntu setup**, but until it is fixed, at least we know how to do it ourselves.

Cheers!
Eric

---

### Post by superm1 on 2007-10-30
> **neutron68 said:**
> Based on the message 3 posts up, I just changed the database password line in the file /etc/mythtv/mythweb-htaccess to the correct one, which is listed in the file /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt.  That password seems to be autogenerated by Mythbuntu setup.  Based on that post, I did NOT run the dpkg-reconfigure command again, as it is reported to screw up what I just fixed!

Also, you have to point your browser to "IP ADDRESS"/mythweb and then it works.  Pointing to just "IP ADDRESS" like we've done with Knoppmyth doesn't work.  In my case, it looks like this:  192.168.7.13/mythweb

**This password bug is still something that should be fixed in the Mythbuntu setup**, but until it is fixed, at least we know how to do it ourselves.

Cheers!
Eric
Please file a bug upon this issue if its not already done.

---

### Post by mr.malibu on 2007-11-10
HELP!!!! lol

Ok, so I've got a verrrry similar problem to the previous guys in that in some way... some how... I can't get my *mythweb* application to function and no matter what I try I get the:

Database Access Denied
You are most likely receiving this message because you
have failed to configure mythweb's database login info.

Please see .htaccess for instructions. 

Here's what I've tried so far....

1) Editing the '/etc/mythtv/mysql.txt' file and setting both of the following to my user account and password

DBUserName=<myusername>
DBPassword=<mypassword>

I then edited the file '/etc/mythtv/mythweb-htaccess' file and verified that the following username/password env. variables matched those found in /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt'

setenv db_login                    "<myusername>"
setenv db_password             "<mypassword>"

I then restarted apached with '/etc/init.d/apache2 restart'

From my browser issued the following URL: 
[http://192.168.10.111/mythweb/](http://192.168.10.111/mythweb/)

*****Nothing changed! Same 'Database Access Denied' error. *****

2) I then decided to try and remove and reinstall the *mythweb* package with the following commands:

sudo apt-get purge mythweb   (it appeared to delete the package)
sudo apt-get install mythweb   (it appeared to reinstall the package)

From my browser issued the following URL: 
[http://192.168.10.111/mythweb/](http://192.168.10.111/mythweb/)

*****Again, no change! Same 'Database Access Denied' error. *****

3) I also tried following the directions on both of these sites:

[http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/MythWeb](http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/MythWeb)

and

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV_Dapper_Backend_Desktop#head-6de54421fa8d540556099304300e2e86a4a5b029](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV_Dapper_Backend_Desktop#head-6de54421fa8d540556099304300e2e86a4a5b029)


****No joy here either*****

In a nutshell, I could really use some help. At this point I think I've fallen and I can't get up! :-)

Thanks in advance for any pointers/tips.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2007-11-10
Okay try to modify that htaccess file to include the information from /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt.

Sounds like somehow that isn't automagically working.

---

### Post by newcoventry on 2007-11-26
I can confirm this issue.
On my system
/etc/mythtv/mysql.txt and /etc/mythtv/mythweb-htaccess had different passwords.  I had gone in an disabled and reenabled mythweb from the mythbuntu configuration panel, but it did not solve it.  I had to go in manually in order to fix this.  
I simply had to copy the DBPassword from /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt and paste it to the  setenv db_password variable for /etc/mythtv/mythweb-htaccess.  This appears to be a consistent issue each time I "dink" with mythweb.
Running sudo dpkg-reconfigure mythweb did not resolve this either.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2007-11-26
> **newcoventry said:**
> I can confirm this issue.
On my system
/etc/mythtv/mysql.txt and /etc/mythtv/mythweb-htaccess had different passwords.  I had gone in an disabled and reenabled mythweb from the mythbuntu configuration panel, but it did not solve it.  I had to go in manually in order to fix this.  
I simply had to copy the DBPassword from /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt and paste it to the  setenv db_password variable for /etc/mythtv/mythweb-htaccess.  This appears to be a consistent issue each time I "dink" with mythweb.
Running sudo dpkg-reconfigure mythweb did not resolve this either.
Can your please file a bug against mythweb regarding this issue?  Thanks.

---

### Post by sdhorne on 2007-12-04
I am having this same problem with mythweb.  I am thinking that I am even more of a newbie, due to the fact that it won't let me edit the files.  When I pico the file it says that I don't have permission to edit the mythweb-htaccess page.  How do i go about doing this?  I have tried the other cmd that has been discussed before where you reset the username and password and no luck.  Please help!  I need to get rid of this darn database access denied page.

---

### Post by sdhorne on 2007-12-04
I figured it out, and it seems to be working now.  I am still getting used to ubuntu, I had to use sudo and login.  This allowed my to do the aforementioned password switch into the mythweb file.  I am now wondering if this is causing a similar problem in xbmcmythtv.  I am having issues with the database and getting it to connect.

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2007-12-05
there's tons of info regarding the connection between xbmcmythtv and mythtv. for one, use the ip address within the path for your shares in the settings of xbmvmythtv. also, make these shares guest ok. also, make sure that your mysql database mythconverg uses the "old password" method. also, make sure that your mysql privelages allows other ip's to connect to it and that you use static ip's for your machines. it's just easier. after I did all this, I have 20.34b xbmcmythtv working with mythtv 20.2 fixes from feisty-updated repo or whichever repo the 20.2 fixes is in. good luck. use google and you'll most likely find the answer within the xbmcmythtv sourceforge forums. also, I would create a new thread for this if you have more questions.

---

