---
title: "New 12.04 install, mythmote doesn't connect"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by HuckBerry on 2012-04-28
This is my first experience with Mythbuntu, but I've been around ubuntu for a long time. I installed the new mythbuntu 12.04 as a combined frontend/backend and accepted all the defaults during setup. The only thing I changed is checking the box for network remote control and changed the hostname to the box's IP.

I cannot get the remote to connect.

Since then I have rebooted several times, run through the setup several times (w/o changing anything), disabled ipv6 (ala /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/all/disable_ipv6), and run wire shark. The results from wireshark are that I can see my phone send a TCP SYN to the server, to which the server does nothing.

I then disabled ufw and re-ran wireshark. I saw the TCP SYN go from the phone to the server, and then the server responded with a TCP RST.

The settings I have for mythmote are:
Location Name: Gamma (My third server)
Address: 10.0.0.14 (not static, but I check it each boot)
Port: 6546
MAC: (Not filled in, no need for WOL)
Wifi Only: Yes

The settings I have in mythfrontend are:
General >> Setup:
Hostname: 10.0.0.14
Enable Network Remote Control Interface: Yes
Port:6546

Here's the real kicker. If I switch to a terminal via CTRL+ALT+F1 and I telnet 127.0.0.1 6546, I get the network control interface no problem. If I telnet 10.0.0.14 6546 I get a connection refused message.

How do I get mythfrontend to bind to all available adapters and service requests? Why is it not as simple as checking that one checkbox? Why have I not seen other posts about this / Am I doing it wrong?

---

### Post by risro on 2012-04-29
I seem to be having the same problem. hope someone comes up with a fix soon

---

### Post by tunzo on 2012-05-07
hm i also am having this issue, also with a fresh install.  

i also got the same results when trying 127.0.0.1 vs the actual static IP

---

### Post by tunzo on 2012-05-07
Ok, I think that I figured this out.  Rather, found the answer, as I wasn't actually smart enough to figure out, I just found the answer.  Hopefully this works for you too  :)

Apparently a bug report was made about this, which was promptly closed with an explanation.  The link is here:

[http://code.mythtv.org/trac/ticket/10671](http://code.mythtv.org/trac/ticket/10671)

Essentially, the way I understand it, myth defaults to listening on whatever localhost is, which is 127.0.0.1.  You can change that in the myth backend and front end setups to your actual network IP addresses, which causes it to listen to requests from your local network.  After I made those changes (and I restarted the front and back ends for good measure) I was able to connect.  

Someone can probably explain the technical details of this better than I can, but this worked for me.

Good luck

---

