---
title: "Frontend inaccessible.  How do I enter recovery console?"
date: 2010-11-29
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by lnoland on 2010-11-29
I am running MythBuntu 9.10 -- I think the Myth version is .22 but I can't check because I can't access the system.

This system is a combination front end/slave backend system and has been running fine for months.  I left the system sitting on the "Watch Recordings" menu when I went upstairs to fix some dinner.  When I came back down, the MythTV splash screen was showing with a couple black rectangles about midway on the screen -- apparently, the system had rebooted but failed to finish booting.  I tried rebooting the system repeatedly and each time it failed, but not always in the same way.  Sometimes it would stop on the splash screen; sometimes the screen would just turn black and stay that way; sometimes it would turn black then after anywhere from 30 seconds to three or four minutes it would reboot again (sometimes rebooting two or three times before hanging in one of the other modes).  It is set to auto-login so I don't get a grub menu on reboot. I don't normally have a keyboard installed, so I tried to ssh into the machine from another computer but it wasn't connected to the network -- I experimented with that during rebooting and discovered that it would connect to the network briefly during the boot but then disconnect from it again before hanging.  I connected a USB keyboard to the machine but once it launches into the "black screen" it stops responding in any way to the keyboard and I can't get into a console fast enough to kill the loading of the display manager before the keyboard is disabled.

I booted from a system rescue CD, ran e2fsck -p on all of my partitions with no errors found.  I also mounted the partition containing /var/log so I could read the log files -- there was some strange stuff in syslog but googling the error messages didn't lead me to anything helpful, except for the likelihood that either gdm or the Xserver is failing, but as to why and whether that is a cause or result I have no idea.  I did check out the Xserver's log file and it looked pretty normal.

I have been trying to find a way to get into the recovery console so that I could try to figure out what is going wrong but I don't know how to do that.  All of the info I could find on changing grub (so I can have a timed menu displayed) refers to running tools on the machine itself, which I can't do.  I thought that there would be a configuration file I could edit using the system rescue CD but it sounds like the files get generated by these tools so I don't know if there is anything I can do with that or not.  I found an article on the web which indicated that I could set the default runlevel by editing /etc/init/rc.sysinit.conf but I tried setting the default runlevel to 1 that way and it didn't seem to have any effect on startup.

I'm pretty much out of ideas other than grabbing the latest mythbuntu CD image and starting over -- which is a headache I really don't need right now.  I'm not a Linux-expert by any stripe -- I can handle the shell well-enough but most of what I know about the system, configuration, etc., I've learned the hard way trying to keep these systems running, so my knowledge is rather spotty. Can anyone, please, offer me any help, hope, prayers, or kind words?  I would definitely appreciate anything you might have to offer.

Thanks.

- Les

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-11-29
You should be able to get a grub menu by hitting shift when you boot up.  That assumes you have grub2 on the machine, which was default on ubuntu 9.10 onwards, but if that is not the case and you have upgraded from a previous version of ubuntu (mythbuntu), use Esc at boot up.

That should give you a grub menu.  Now go to the entry you wish to boot, ie **recovery mode** for the kernel version you want, and you may be able to sort things from there.

---

### Post by lnoland on 2010-11-29
> **ajgreeny said:**
> You should be able to get a grub menu by hitting shift when you boot up.  That assumes you have grub2 on the machine, which was default on ubuntu 9.10 onwards, but if that is not the case and you have upgraded from a previous version of ubuntu (mythbuntu), use Esc at boot up.

That should give you a grub menu.  Now go to the entry you wish to boot, ie **recovery mode** for the kernel version you want, and you may be able to sort things from there.
Thanks so much for the reply.

I tried holding shift during the boot but it didn't work.  It might have something to do with the fact that the keyboard I'm using is just plugged into a USB port -- I don't know at what point the USB ports are recognized in the boot sequence.  It's possible that I would need a PS2 keyboard (I should have one around here somewhere though getting to the back of the machine to plug it in isn't the easiest thing).  I'm pretty sure that it is grub2 -- I need to get to work, but when I get home, tonight, I will try hitting escape during the boot sequence, just to be sure.

Just in case I don't have any luck with using the keyboard to change the boot handling, do you have any other suggestions for getting into recovery mode?

Thanks again.

- Les

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-11-29
Can you get into the BIOS with a key press at boot up?  If you can't that would lead me to believe your thought about the USB keyboard, but I am afraid I can't think of anything else to do, other tha perhaps trying an edit of the **/boot/grub/grub.cfg** file in your install, which you can do from a live CD.  You will first have to change it from read-only in order to edit it using ```
gksudo nautilus
``` in live CD, then edit it with ```
gksudo gedit /path/to/install/etc/fstab
```changing the end of the default boot kernel line from "quiet splash" to "single"  Now boot into the install and the system should boot to recovery mode.

What you can do from there may or may not overcome your problem, but it was your original question, and I will leave you to try your best from there.

Good luck and keep me posted.

PS if you get it all sorted, simply run ```
sudo update-grub
``` from your installed system to return the grub.cfg to its original status.

---

### Post by lnoland on 2010-11-30
Getting pretty discouraged at this point.

I did confirm that:
[LIST=1]
[*]My USB keyboard is active via the BIOS
[*]I have Grub2, but . . .
[*]I was not able to break into the Grub menu using the shift key.
[/LIST]
I did find, however, that I could avoid having the display manager loaded by hitting the escape key multiple times during boot -- apparently it results in the abortion of a number of the boot line items and eventually results in a trip to the recovery console.  Once there I modified Grub to bring up the menu -- I had trouble trying to do it in /boot/grub/grub.cfg, as you had suggested as there were still boot messages being generated which wrote all over the recovery menu, so since I could now work from the machine itself, I just used update-grub conventionally.

Unfortunately, I am still unable to figure out what is going wrong.  It happens at the point that the display manager is launched (or shortly thereafter) but leaves no apparent trace in any of the log files (there are a number of errors which show up in the log files -- but it isn't clear if they have anything to do with the problem, though a number of other people reporting the same errors have had similar (but not identical) problems.  None of the fixes they have used have worked for me, however.

Some of those error messages were related to networking issues and since my network adapter wasn't staying on for more than 20-30 seconds, I thought it might be the culprit.  There were a lot of messages from NetworkManager which seemed, at least, suspicious but cryptic enough that I couldn't be sure.  I changed the networking over to use /etc/network/interfaces (though I was unsure how to cut NetworkManager out of the picture, particularly with no GUI to work with).  That seemed to make the network a lot more reliable, though it still goes away when the system freezes up (or whatever it is doing) after the display manager loads.

I tried uninstalling gdm and then reinstalling it but that didn't help.  I tried installing kdm instead of gdm, and that didn't help.  I tried uninstalling both kdm and gdm and just starting the X-server with startx -- that resulted in a tiny, tiny message box which in it's biggest letters said that "Ubuntu is running in a low-resolution mode" -- the rest of the text in the message box and the two or three which ensued was so tiny that they were only assigned about three pixels per letter on my display so whatever they were trying to convey to me was completely unreadable.  I finally gave up and reloaded gdm (and things went back to failing).  (I'm not sure I understand the gdm connection, anyway -- I thought MythBuntu used XFCE as its window manager, and I thought gdm was the Gnome window manager -- not that it makes much of a difference but it seems curious).

I think it's about time to cut my losses and just reinstall from scratch.  I'm a bit behind the curve anyway -- I'm still on 9.10 and I think Mythbuntu is up to 10.10 now.  They've probably made enough changes in MythTV at this point that I was going to have to start over and reconfigure everything from scratch anyway even if I had only upgraded.  (Not that that makes the imposition on my time any more palateable, but it's probably true.)

I guess this has been educational (they say an education is what you get when you didn't get what you wanted).  It's been a little disturbing to learn that Linux display managers are apparently akin to Trojan horses, but, live and learn I guess.

Anyway, thanks for your help.  I really appreciate it. 

 - Les

---

