---
title: "9.04 new install, tuner 1 unavailable"
date: 2009-05-29
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by LinuxBob on 2009-05-29
HI

Installed Mythbuntu 9.04 over XP machine, HP Media center mXXXn (560 I think).  Internal Happauge PVR 250 card with coax connected to it.

Got through the Myth TV setup following 8.10 Installation Manual instructions, saw the tuner card, added the 192.168 static IP.  Didn't have the front end (this PC is both back and front end) installed so I did that, files were downloaded and "watch TV" added to multimedia window.

OK now I cannot watch TV, says my tuner 1 is unvailable. 

PLease, I am begging you, assume I have no knowledge when providing any help.  I do know some having used  Ubuntu foesty in past.

Thanks for any help provided.

---

### Post by elgordo123 on 2009-05-29
Did you go into mythtv backend setup and set the card up there? 
You need to go into Capture Cards and set it up as "IVTV MPEG-2 encoder Card".  The device should probably be recoginized (/dev/video0) and should show up in Probed info.   I use coax aslo, show Default Input should be Tuner 1. 
You will also need to make sure you have setup video sources (for the program guide) and ran mythfilldatabase.  Along with going into Input Connections and setting MPEG: /dev/video0 (tuner1) to that video source. 
Try that and report back.

---

### Post by LinuxBob on 2009-06-06
> **elgordo123 said:**
> Did you go into mythtv backend setup and set the card up there? 
You need to go into Capture Cards and set it up as "IVTV MPEG-2 encoder Card".  The device should probably be recoginized (/dev/video0) and should show up in Probed info.   I use coax aslo, show Default Input should be Tuner 1. 
You will also need to make sure you have setup video sources (for the program guide) and ran mythfilldatabase.  Along with going into Input Connections and setting MPEG: /dev/video0 (tuner1) to that video source. 
Try that and report back.


What does it mean to "go into the MythTV back end?"  Myth Control Center?  I do not see "Capture Cards" listed.


I did the setup and mythfilldb stuff as well as schedules.  When done I don;t see the Happauge tuner

Sorry for the delay in trying stuff, grandkids all week just now getting time to work on this

---

### Post by LinuxBob on 2009-06-06
Hey thanks for the advice, I now get TV.  UNfortunately I do not get above Channel 13 (my cable package has 70 plus channels) and the picture is not great.  Any ideas how to get ALL channels and improve the reception?

---

