---
title: "94% of 10.04 install = frustration"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by trevs.bronco on 2010-05-04
Ok, I have wasted two days of my life now trying to install 10.04 I would gladly install windows or any operating system right now if I could, but nothing will install. Best I can do is get to 94% and then CRASH! tried a bunch of stuff a bunch of times and end up with a machine that would be more useful as a door stop. I really would appreciate some help from someone who knows something as I am a noob comparatively and am only guessing at what might be wrong as my searches have turned up nothing helpful, mostly info about dual booting which I am not doing.

Trev

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-05-04
94% is about the point that grub(bootloader) installs so probably something there.

However, apart from that (which has several google hits ) you have given no information at all.
How about some so we can troubleshoot.??

Like, hardware- make, model graphics card, ram, how many and what type of hard drives.
Does 10.04 boot to the live desktop on cd ?.
(if so we can suggest some commands that will get most of the needed info)

---

### Post by trevs.bronco on 2010-05-04
Ok, the hardware:
asus m2n vm dvi motherboard
newly installed geforce 210 video card
500 g seagate barracuda HD had a second 1.5T drive, but removed it.
2g of unknown ram
5400 processor @ 2.7

There was a long standing working system on this machine, I decided to upgrade the video card and OS at the same time which work out except that the ALSA in 10.04 does not support audio through hdmi on my card so that is when IU tried to upgrade alsa and ended up with a crass during the process that has left my machine unusable.

Trev

---

### Post by ivikas on 2010-05-04
Hello ALL,

          SAME EXPERIENCE WITH ME.I tried three times to install ubuntu 10.04 LTS Desktop,but it fails to install grub saying it cannot install on /dev/sda and when i select other partition like /dev/sda10 this error still continues with message either to stop installation or continue without bootloader.I tried a tripple boot along with Windows 7 and Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Desktop

I have done triple boot earlier.



My System Configuration

Intel Core 2 Duo
2GB Ram
Intel Mother Board

regards,
Vikas Mohan

---

### Post by superm1 on 2010-05-04
> **trevs.bronco said:**
> Ok, I have wasted two days of my life now trying to install 10.04 I would gladly install windows or any operating system right now if I could, but nothing will install. Best I can do is get to 94% and then CRASH! tried a bunch of stuff a bunch of times and end up with a machine that would be more useful as a door stop. I really would appreciate some help from someone who knows something as I am a noob comparatively and am only guessing at what might be wrong as my searches have turned up nothing helpful, mostly info about dual booting which I am not doing.

Trev
If you can reproduce this, please follow these directions.

1) Open a terminal up (if you boot directly into the installer, then choose Try Mythbuntu mode)
2) From the terminal run this command to put ubiquity in debugging mode.  Use a simple password as it's logged now:
```
ubiquity -d
```

3) When this crash happens, run this command:

```
ubuntu-bug ubiquity
```

That will file a bug with all the particulars about your crash.

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-05-04
For the OP
Ok, here is a passing thought..
Do you have the manual for your motherboard ? (or find and download it.)

Look up the bios settings and see if there is one that toggles something like "virus protection" or 'Protected" or somesuch for the master boot record.

This setting, if present, often stops anything being written to the MBR and so grub can be prevented from installing.

As you have no o/s currently  you could try the live cd and use the partition editor to 
   a) wipe the hard disk and 
   b) write new partition table.

This should give a clean disc and having checked the bios settings as above you may be able to install.

---

### Post by cgroza on 2010-05-04
> **robert shearer said:**
> For the OP
Ok, here is a passing thought..
Do you have the manual for your motherboard ? (or find and download it.)

Look up the bios settings and see if there is one that toggles something like "virus protection" or 'Protected" or somesuch for the master boot record.

This setting, if present, often stops anything being written to the MBR and so grub can be prevented from installing.

As you have no o/s currently  you could try the live cd and use the partition editor to 
   a) wipe the hard disk and 
   b) write new partition table.

This should give a clean disc and having checked the bios settings as above you may be able to install.

Listen him...

---

### Post by trevs.bronco on 2010-05-04
OK, I followed Superm1's directions and looked in my manual and on-line for any information about a setting to protect the mbr and could find nothing.

Trev

---

### Post by trevs.bronco on 2010-05-06
I was just thinking, could this be a power supply issue? or maybe a Bios issue? I do find I can normally run a live disk without it crashing, but when i do get a crash it will crash again and again untill i power off for a half hour or so. 
Any thoughts?
I tried running the seatools live disk  last night, it told me to upgrade my firmware. I loaded the new firmware onto the disk pressed any key to continue and Crash!
I brought the HD and seatools disk to work today and tested the HD on a spare machine, it found and repaired two bad sectors and right now is doing a complete erase of the drive. If i installed 10.04 on this drive while it is connected to this machine would it, or should it work once I re install it in my machine at home?
 
Trev

---

### Post by Penguin Guy on 2010-05-06
Unless you urgently need 10.04, just wait a while. In the mean time you could submit a bug report on [Launchpad]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/") (you'll need to sign up first).

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-05-06
> **trevs.bronco said:**
> I was just thinking, could this be a power supply issue? or maybe a Bios issue?  
  *snip* 
If i installed 10.04 on this drive while it is connected to this machine would it, or should it work once I re install it in my machine at home?
 
Trev

Try running the memtest option from the live cd, you may have failing ram ?  Worth ruling out.
.
Yes, power supply may be a factor.
Can you swap in another to check ?.

As far as installing on one machine and swapping the drive to another this **usually does not work** unless the two machines are identical.

However, it **can** often work if they are close in processor spec. Same make and family. (AMD=>AMD, Intel=>Intel)

And then there are the reports of it working with wildly varying hardware mismatches !  

Just don't reboot after install.
Select 'restart later" and then select the shutdown option. 
Move the drive and boot up and see.

Worth a try perhaps, all you lose if it doesn't work is having to take the drive back to work to reformat. (Another day another variable tested)

Admire your perseverance, it brings its own reward.

**Edit** 
Just reread your first post and noted that you upgraded the Graphics card.
Have you tried to install using the old card ?.

Did you try the new card on the older Ubuntu install you had ?.

Just another variable worth ruling out.

---

### Post by trevs.bronco on 2010-05-06
Just tried running the memory test three times once with both sticks installed and then with only one stick installed at a time. each time I had similar results test three 78-92% complete and then crash. to me this seems like it is not the memory failing. 

I had installed the graphics card at the same time as the install of 10.04 it ran for a couple of days before I tried updating the alsa and had the first of many crashes. I have removed the card and tried installing every operating system I have a disk for - all have resulted in the system crashing. I repaired one of my drives and erased everything using the seatools utility and tried the install again with the same results.

Trev

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-05-06
> **trevs.bronco said:**
> > Just tried running the memory test three times once with both sticks installed and then with only one stick installed at a time. each time I had similar results test three 78-92% complete and then crash. to me this seems like it is not the memory failing. 
Trev


Well, you've either got two bad sticks of ram or it is a resource issue elsewhere.

[QUOTE]
I had installed the graphics card at the same time as the install of 10.04 it ran for a couple of days before I tried updating the alsa and had the first of many crashes. I have removed the card and tried installing every operating system I have a disk for - all have resulted in the system crashing. I repaired one of my drives and erased everything using the seatools utility and tried the install again with the same results.

Hmm, I wonder if your power supply or cpu has been  on the way out and the extra requirements of the new graphics card tipped the balance.

Presume you have already done the 'open the box and check for/remove dust-bunnies' ?? as shutdown/crash under load suggests overheating.

Is the cpu fan clean and working ? , 
can you take the cover off and use a room fan to blow air in then run memtest again

---

### Post by trevs.bronco on 2010-05-08
today I updated the bios and it crashed on reboot as per normal. fans are all working ad dust was blown out a short while ago. tomorrow i will try swaping power supplies and if that changes nothing i will try installing on the hard drive while it is in another machine. after that I dont know what is next, a new motherboard?
 
Trev

---

### Post by trevs.bronco on 2010-05-08
Installed but not fixed. My co-worker suggested I try an ide drive to see if that would work as they are different controllers on the mobo. so I found an old drive kicking around and tried it out. I assume this means I need to replace the mobo or is there a way to fix the sata controller? I haven't tried mounting the still working hd for fear of killing it again and I assume it would probably just crash the system again any way. instead i think I will use my running system o do some research on my mobo issue and then i will experiment with upgrading alsa t see if I can get my hdmi sound working.

Trev

---

### Post by ivikas on 2010-08-11
Hello all,

I fixed the grub failing to install issue in my computer.I had a PC that already had Ubuntu 8.04 installed.I tried three times to install the ubuntu 10.04 LTS Desktop,but the grub fails to install.Then i just remembered that the in Ubuntu 10.04 LTS grub has an new version(like grub 2.0 or so (not too sure but definitely new version of grub than on Ubuntu 8.04 LTS.)So MBR has old version of grub and this is preventing the installation of 10.04 LTS Grub.I had windows 7 Ultimate as dual boot with ubuntu.All i did is, downloaded MBRfix.exe and from windows run this program which put windows 7 loader into the MBR,removing ubuntu 8.04 LTS Grub from MBR(MASTER BOOT RECORD).Then i installed the Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Desktop and the ubuntu 10.04 LTS  installation went smoothly including the GRUB.

With Regards,
Vikas Mohan

---

