---
title: "0.25 on ubuntu/mythbuntu 11.10"
date: 2012-04-02
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by bergqvistjl on 2012-04-02
Hi, i'm running 0.24-fixes through the mythbuntu-repos option in the Mythbuntu Control Center. What should I do/how will it appear when 0.25 is released? Would I need to deselect all the repositories through mythbuntu-repos all together? Ideally i'd like to change to a 0.25-fixes repository, if one gets released?

---

### Post by nickrout on 2012-04-02
> **bergqvistjl said:**
> Hi, i'm running 0.24-fixes through the mythbuntu-repos option in the Mythbuntu Control Center. What should I do/how will it appear when 0.25 is released? Would I need to deselect all the repositories through mythbuntu-repos all together? Ideally i'd like to change to a 0.25-fixes repository, if one gets released?

The documentation is here:

[http://www.mythbuntu.org/repos](http://www.mythbuntu.org/repos)

Your questions are answered in the sections FAQ.

You can reconfigure with ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure mythbuntu-repos
```

---

### Post by bergqvistjl on 2012-04-03
> **nickrout said:**
> The documentation is here:

[http://www.mythbuntu.org/repos](http://www.mythbuntu.org/repos)

Your questions are answered in the sections FAQ.

You can reconfigure with ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure mythbuntu-repos
```

So will there be an upgrade to the mythbuntu-repos package beforehand then when MythTV 0.25 is released, with details of the new repositories? I read that article but i'm still confused.

---

### Post by nickrout on 2012-04-03
I believe if you do ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure mythbuntu-repos
``` now you can change to 0.25. The option should already be there.

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2012-04-03
> **bergqvistjl said:**
> So will there be an upgrade to the mythbuntu-repos package beforehand then when MythTV 0.25 is released, with details of the new repositories? I read that article but i'm still confused.

Please explain to me what you are confused about and/or what part of that article is confusing.

---

### Post by bergqvistjl on 2012-04-04
> **tgm4883 said:**
> Please explain to me what you are confused about and/or what part of that article is confusing.

OK, at the moment I have two repositories to choose from (as well as the standard Mythtv v0.24 that the distro comes with out of the box:

0.24-fixes and 0.25 daily builds. At the moment I am on 0.24 fixes. When mythtv 0.25 final comes out on the 9th, how do I switch to that build, stay on 0.24-fixes, which will change to 0.25? or will 0.25 final be merged into the regular ubuntu repositories, in which case i'd disable mythbuntu-repos altogether and use the packages from the standard ubuntu repositories?

---

### Post by nickrout on 2012-04-04
> **bergqvistjl said:**
> OK, at the moment I have two repositories to choose from (as well as the standard Mythtv v0.24 that the distro comes with out of the box:

0.24-fixes and 0.25 daily builds. At the moment I am on 0.24 fixes. When mythtv 0.25 final comes out on the 9th, how do I switch to that build, stay on 0.24-fixes, which will change to 0.25? or will 0.25 final be merged into the regular ubuntu repositories, in which case i'd disable mythbuntu-repos altogether and use the packages from the standard ubuntu repositories?

0.25 will NEVER be in the standard ubuntu 11.10 repos.

When you want to change to 0.25 do ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure mythbuntu-repos
``` and choose 0.25.

then update and upgrade in the normal way.

And for heaven's sake back up your database in case you wish to revert for any reason.

[http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/Database_Backup_and_Restore](http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/Database_Backup_and_Restore)

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2012-04-04
> **bergqvistjl said:**
> OK, at the moment I have two repositories to choose from (as well as the standard Mythtv v0.24 that the distro comes with out of the box:

0.24-fixes and 0.25 daily builds. At the moment I am on 0.24 fixes. When mythtv 0.25 final comes out on the 9th, how do I switch to that build, stay on 0.24-fixes, which will change to 0.25? or will 0.25 final be merged into the regular ubuntu repositories, in which case i'd disable mythbuntu-repos altogether and use the packages from the standard ubuntu repositories?

Please let me know if neither of the following (both from that mythbuntu.org/repos page) do not answer that question for you.

> 
I originally selected the version of MythTV that was in development (eg. 0.24). Now that it has been released, am I going to continue to get development builds? Do I need to change something in order to get builds from the 0.24 fixes branch?
[LIST][*]No you do not need to change anything. If you originally selected a development version, when upstream releases that version and creates a fixes branch for it, the 0.24 repo will build from the 0.24 fixes branch.[/LIST]


> 
The next version of MythTV has hit beta, and you want to upgrade to that version, but not get development builds once that version has been released.
[LIST][*]Enable MythTV Updates and select the next version after the current release. (eg. if the current release is 0.24, select the 0.25 version) A MythTV Updates repository for a specific MythTV version will NEVER advance to a higher version (0.25 repository will never, ever get MythTV builds for 0.26. Once upstream creates a 0.25 fixes branch, the 0.25 repository will follow that)
[/LIST]


---

### Post by bergqvistjl on 2012-04-05
> **tgm4883 said:**
> Please let me know if neither of the following (both from that mythbuntu.org/repos page) do not answer that question for you.

So if I select 0.25-devel now, it will keep updating daily until the final release, whereby it will stop updating after that?

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2012-04-05
> **bergqvistjl said:**
> So if I select 0.25-devel now, it will keep updating daily until the final release, whereby it will stop updating after that?

Not exactly. If you select the 0.25 repository, you will get 0.25 builds up to final, then when 0.25 releases you will get 0.25+fixes. Upstream MythTV developers have a branch where they fix bugs in the 0.25 version after it has been released. You will continue to get these fixes.

---

