---
title: "12.04.02 and Hauppauge HD-PVR"
date: 2013-05-19
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by bleve on 2013-05-19
Hi All,

I just scrapped my 11.04 and decided to do a full rebuild and add in an HD-PVR into my configuration attached to a digital cable box.  I have everything working with my pre-existing PVR-350 card and added in the HD-PVR in mythtv-setup.  There is two things that I hope someone has documented:

[LIST=1]
[*]A channel changing script or if there is one already in the distro, where is it?
[*]lirc setup for the IR to change the channels on the cable box.
[/LIST]

I searched the forum and google and found lots of information but it seems like there is a lot of pointers on how to build things from scratch.  Seeing as how this has to be fairly popular for others, does anyone know where there is a cookbook of sorts or how to enable all of this from the default install?

Thanks

---

### Post by one30nav on 2013-05-22
I finally got my HD-PVR last week -- long overdue; wonderful system; why I did not get one till now is beyond me!

I'm running Ubuntu 12.04/Mythtv 0.26. Video capture via firewire became unreliable under Mythtv 0.25 & 0.26 so I finally had to abandon it in favor of the HD-PVR for HD capture (a lot of 0GB recordings). However, firewire channel changing continues to be rock-solid since the introduction of the "-g" option in the 6200ch script.

So, for my setup I compiled 6200ch for channel changing with a Motorola DCT-6200 set top box, made the script executable, then put it in bin. In Mythtv's backend setup for your HV-PVR, use "/usr/bin/6200ch -g GUID#" as your external channel change script.

I use a Tira USB IR receiver as well. So, no IR blaster required.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by bleve on 2013-05-22
Thanks, it does help.  I ended up fumbling through the mythtv wiki for setting it up.  I got irsend commands to work.  So I know I can change channels now.  I don't have firewire on my BE as it is an older box.   

With the HD-PVR, I guess you need to leave the source on, or is there a way to tell it turn off when it is not being used and have it turn on when the tuner is needed?

---

### Post by one30nav on 2013-05-23
Even with older boxes, you can get a PCI firewire card for ~$20.

Just a little confused on your question so I'll try to answer it with a further description of my setup (which I think is very common for most):

The source for my programming is from a Motorola DCT-6200 which is powered up all of the time. I record a lot and at differing times. So, forcing the set top box to sleep would not equate to power savings for me.

If you mean the source to be the HD-PVR: When the HD-PVR is not in use, it appears to automatically go into a power savings state. It appears to fire up for each recording job when needed. That interaction happens between my Mythbox and the HD-PVR via the USB cable.

Again, hope this further helps.

---

### Post by bleve on 2013-05-23
Once again it does.  Leaving it on is not a big deal but I live in Florida where there are lots of power outages.  The best solution would be to put a UPS on the cable box.  Right now I am fighting playback issues from the HD-PVR.  When I view video recorded from it as the source it is small and extremely choppy.  Recordings from my PVR-350 are crystal clear playing via the same FE.  Once I get past that I will work on the channel changing, and possibly get a firewire card if I can't get the built in IR from the HD-PVR to work reliably.

---

### Post by bleve on 2013-05-23
I think I may know my problem with the playback.  I've been doing some reading and my Nvidia cards are:

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation NV44A [GeForce 6200] (rev a1)

Reading more about this card it does not support VDPAU.  I went with this particular card as my FEs are older boxes and do not have PCIe or even AGP ports.   So now back to the drawing board.

---

### Post by uteck on 2013-05-24
You can get a regular PCI video card for your older systems.  The Nvidia 8400 comes in PCI versions and suppots VDPAU.  I have a fanless version so it is nice and quite on my frontend system.

---

### Post by one30nav on 2013-05-24
Bleve, a couple of things: I had a GeForce 6200 for years, but have since upgraded to a 8400 series card for the VDPAU functionality (as uteck mentioned). However, the GeForce 6200 works just fine and can handle a lot if you use the nVidia, propriery driver (not the nv driver) and you select the "slim" profile for playback (in mythtv settings). Also, with my Motorola DCT-6200 set top box, I had to go into the settings and set the "4:3 Override" option to "Stretch." This allowed SD channel recordings via the HD-PVR to be full screen for me.

---

### Post by bleve on 2013-05-24
I am using the proprietary driver but not using slim, but using the normal profile.  I can force the cable box to be 4:3, just need to figure out why the picture is so shaky.  I will try with slim and see if it is useable.  The reason I went with the 6200 cards is they do svideo for an older TV.  I did order an 8200 last night to try in one of the FEs that has a TV with HDMI.

---

### Post by bleve on 2013-05-25
Got it to play video by changing the cable box to be 480p.  It chops about every 30 seconds or so but is viewable.   I will try to figure that out later, now need to figure out why my channel changing is not working with the built in IR.

---

### Post by bleve on 2013-05-25
Channel changing working and video playback is ok but still have the bit of a chop every so often.  Also on of my FE seems to lockup every so often.  So still a few things to sort out but getting there.  Thinking about going to .26 and if things are not better or worse may go back .25 as I have nothing saved in recordings yet other than tests.

---

