---
title: "Bizarre behavior ATI fglrx + MythTV"
date: 2008-10-21
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by mratomic on 2008-10-21
Howdy! I wish to convey a bizarre observation using fglrx (ATI's proprietary driver for linux) and MythTV.

I have a 780g based motherboard and installed Mythbuntu for 64bit processor.

Of course the failure of the fglrx driver to play nice with MythTV is known and discussed. :frown:

And of course it is well know that the open source driver is almost a slideshow for displaying video (especially HD) :frown:

Now here is the bizarre part:

I install the proprietary driver from the Ubuntu repositories, the desktop is fine. MythTV will display corrupted video. This much is known.
I uninstall the driver and fall back to the open source driver and restart X.

Myth will now work just fine BUT!!! The video plays perfectly. :shock: 
Not the expected slide show. HD also plays perfectly smooth. This continues to work great until the system is rebooted and the remains of the fglrx is of course flushed. Then the slide show video performance returns. :frown:

Rinse lather and repeat: All I have to do is load then unload the driver without rebooting and only restart X to get good video performance. 

So, here is the question: What part of the fglrx stays behind until system restart that allows the video to perform great and also what get's wiped which allows mythtv to display properly?

Does the new Catalyst 8.10 help out yet? (Already answered in another forum post... :( )

I'm just curious.

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2008-10-21
Hi,

Sounds as if the fglrx is correctly programming/configuring the graphic card, the reconfiguration "holds" unti you reboot the system or the fglrx driver loads a kernel driver that the opensource driver "can" use.

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by mratomic on 2008-10-21
Seems reasonable.  Still, it's a usable (to a small extent) work around.  Unfortunately, I have not checked if I can do this while hooking the hdmi to a television as the only video display.  I won't think so since you supposedly need fglrx to hook up television out.  I'll test this sometime this week.  If so, I'll report the outcome.

> **ian dobson said:**
> Hi,

Sounds as if the fglrx is correctly programming/configuring the graphic card, the reconfiguration "holds" unti you reboot the system or the fglrx driver loads a kernel driver that the opensource driver "can" use.

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by JugeHuge on 2008-10-21
my ten cents on the subject..

I'm currently using repository driver because i have found it currently best. Tearing in videos occur and when exiting livetv it will cause frontend to crash with out any notification.

Catalyst 8.6-10 have been causing more problems on myth at least on my system. Waiting 8.11 drivers if those would work. 

with repository fglrx driver do not use bob interlacer.. It don't work 

Here is my currently best working Xorg.conf
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "fi"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	Option	    "TexturedVideo" "on"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection
```

ATI i think was officially stated that it won't support mythtv :(

---

### Post by codered867 on 2008-10-21
I was experiencing the same problem with my 780g ASUS board as well. This was quite a problem because my current setup is using firewire out of my stb to display HD video which was very demanding. At first I did a lot of searching and found what many of you are talking about by setting the geometry manually like "mythfrontend -w -geometry 1366X768" or whatever your resolution is. I was also having a problem in which the correct resolution for my tv would not show up so I added them manually to the xorg.conf like so and everything seemed to work after that, even full HD playback was fine with the catalyst driver.  
```
Section "Screen"
  Identifier  "Screen0"
  Device    "AMD 3200HD"
  Monitor   "Generic Monitor"
  DefaultDepth  24
  SubSection "Display"
    Depth   24
    Modes   "1366x768"
  EndSubSection
EndSection

```
I'm not sure if this is actually what fixed it or not but maybe it is worth a shot.

-Chris

---

### Post by mratomic on 2008-10-21
> **JugeHuge said:**
> 
ATI i think was officially stated that it won't support mythtv :(

OH!  That is completely disastrous!  So much for my attempt to make a low power small HTPC front-end using the AMD/ATI board.

CRUD!

---

### Post by mratomic on 2008-10-21
> **codered867 said:**
> 
I'm not sure if this is actually what fixed it or not but maybe it is worth a shot.
-Chris

Thanks Chris.  I'm going to have to discover/research what conf I'll need to route the signal from the HDMI to a Hitachi 65" Tube RSP.

---

