---
title: "8.04: Dual Tuners (PVR-150 &amp; Nova-T 500)"
date: 2008-04-05
forum: Mythbuntu
---

### Post by Freddie on 2008-04-05
Hi,

I currently have a PVR-150 working on my MythTV box without issue. Being in the UK I use the XMLTV grabber to fetch listings off of the Radio Times. It is currently set to fetch 5 channels (all available on analogue) and is my sole Video Source).

However, I also have a Nova-T 500 (dual DVB-T tuner) which I would like to set-up. But I am not sure how all of this fits together.

I have no idea what to do however, with regards to listings and video sources. As Channels (in my channel list) seem to be tied to a video source (which is RT in my case). However, mixing DVB and analogue what will I do? Will I have to grab the analogue channels available on digital 'twice' (which will make the channel listing a pain). Will I need to add another video source?

How do you suggest I set it up?

Regards, Freddie.

---

### Post by amphibem on 2008-04-05
Freddie,

I am looking at precisely this config for TV in New Zealand, we have just got digital terrestial (ie 3 days ago) and I want to upgrade to a Nova T 500 (and 8.04) to go with my current PVR-150. I am on holiday at the moment and will be having a go when I get back in a week.

So please let me know how you go and I will post back when I have tried it out. I do suspect you will need 2 video sources (digital and analog), and to then tie each avaliable digital channel onto the digital source and same for analog, with the double ups that will occour. I don't know how the guide will work from there though, so good luck!

Andrew

---

