---
title: "Ratel wireless issue"
date: 2013-09-04
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by kevin21 on 2013-09-04
I've had a System76 Ratel box for most of the year now and it's worked as expected.  When updates are available I'll download them.  A few weeks ago I began to start having issues with my wireless.  Sometimes it will perform as expected for a few hours at a time.  Other times it will begin to slow greatly or stop working outright.  Disconnecting and reconnecting the wireless connection to my router doesn't seem to really help.  I haven't been able to notice any patterns or certain circumstances that exacerbate the connection degradation and loss.  Last weekend I figured perhaps it was something that had been fixed with 13.04.  So I upgraded.  No dice.

A few more things.  I've tried to use a Belkin N300 USB WiFi Adapter.  It was overall more slow, and still exhibited the connection degradation/loss issues.  When plugged directly into my router the internet is fast as expected, with no performance drop off.  So I'm thinking it's not the hardware per se, but still a wireless issue.  I've also attached the output of lscpi, but the network controller is the Intel Advanced-N 6235 rev24.

Thanks for the help,
K

---

### Post by isantop on 2013-09-05
The fact that it's happening with two unrelated cards leads me to suspect a problem with the router. Have you tried unplugging it for a few minutes, then plugging it back in.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-09-06
Welcome to the forums kevin21 !
> **kevin21 said:**
> Disconnecting and reconnecting the wireless connection to my router doesn't seem to really help.

Does removing and reloading the driver with a parameter help? -
```
sudo modprobe -rfv iwlwifi
sudo modprobe -v iwlwifi swcrypto=1
```
(don't reboot after above, it is a temporary change that will be lost at next boot)

If it returns any errors, please post the output of -
```
lsmod | grep iwlwifi
```

Make sure the USB adapter is not plugged in when you try above *(better reboot before trying above if you had it plugged in the current session)*. The presence of two wireless adapters at the same time may confuse network manager.

---

### Post by kevin21 on 2013-09-06
Isantop, I have tried that.  I've also replaced the router (I was due for an upgrade).  I have not experienced these type of issues on other devices connected to the router.  Thank you for the feedback though.

---

### Post by kevin21 on 2013-09-06
Varun, I will try this the next time I experience the issue, and will post back the results.  Thank you.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-09-06
So did it start to drop with the changing of router or before it?

Please follow the "Wireless Script" link in my signature, download and run the script as instructed in the linked post and post back the report generated by the script. Thanks.

---

### Post by kevin21 on 2013-09-06
> **varunendra said:**
> So did it start to drop with the changing of router or before it?

Please follow the "Wireless Script" link in my signature, download and run the script as instructed in the linked post and post back the report generated by the script. Thanks.

Varun, the dropping had occurred before I got the new router.  

Also, I was unable to successfully run the command
sudo modprobe -rfv iwlwifi
When I tried I received the output "*FATAL: Module iwlwifi is in use.*"  I tried to run this both when connected and disconnected from my wifi.

Also attached is the output from the wireless script.  Well a zip of it, as the tarball isn't a valid file format o_O

Thanks,
Kevin

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-09-06
> **kevin21 said:**
> Also, I was unable to successfully run the command
sudo modprobe -rfv iwlwifi

Obviously, since it was in use by "iwldvm" - the name I forgot when making the original post (hence the hint about "if it returns any errors"). So the correct way to remove - reload it would be -
```
sudo modprobe -rfv iwldvm
sudo modprobe -rfv iwlwifi
sudo modprobe -v iwlwifi
sudo modprobe -v iwldvm
```

You won't need the 2nd and 3rd commands if iwlwifi is a dependency of iwldvm (which it apparently is, but I'm not sure). If it is, the 2nd one may return error which you can safely ignore (thus the above sequence will work in all cases).

Anyway, if loading with the "swcrypto=1" parameter alone doesn't help, you can also try a compromising parameter - "11n_disable=1". That is -
```
sudo modprobe -v iwlwifi swcrypto=1 11n_disable=1
```
This new parameter will disable the N channel, thus a compromise with speed. But better than nothing.

One more thing you may try (not all cards support it) is increasing Tx power on the card -
```
sudo iwconfig wlan0 txpower 20
```
Then run "iwconfig" again to check if the value sticks (currently it is 15 dBm).

However, given the nature of the problem (initially good, slowing down after some time), I am most hopeful with the "swcrypto=1" parameter.

---

### Post by kevin21 on 2013-09-09
Varun,

It seems as if you have helped me solve the issue.  iwlwifi does seem to be a dependency of iwldvm.  That is, attempting to reload iwlwifi doesn't work.  What I've ended up running is just the two lines
```
sudo modprobe -rfv iwldvm
sudo modprobe -v iwldvm
```
Doing so has left my internet working all day once again.  Sorry I didn't respond right away, but I didn't want to jump the gun in declaring it fixed.

Would you advise me running this and setting swcrypto to 1, or should I just leave that be?  Also is there a proper way to reload this module on startup?

And lastly, mostly just out of curiosity, why do you think it's not loading correctly initially?

Thank you very much,
Kevin

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-09-09
> **kevin21 said:**
> What I've ended up running is just the two lines
```
sudo modprobe -rfv iwldvm
sudo modprobe -v iwldvm
```
Great job !! Congratulations on learning your way around. :D

> Would you advise me running this and setting swcrypto to 1, or should I just leave that be?  Also is there a proper way to reload this module on startup?
If it worked all day long without the parameter, you may leave it at defaults. If the parameter was used and/or seems to help, make it permanent by creating a conf file for it -
```
echo "options iwlwifi swcrypto=1" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
```

I'd suggest you create this file anyway and reboot to see if it helps connecting automatically. If not, either we may try to dig deeper to find out the reason (currently, I have no idea, only some baseless guesses), or we can try a workaround, like adding a code snippet to startup script to unload the module, then reload it some time after startup.

For example, to make it load after a certain delay (say 30 seconds after startup), open your /etc/rc.local file with root access -
```
gksu gedit /etc/rc.local
```
Then add the following line just **above** the last line "**exit 0**" :
```
modprobe -rf iwldvm && sleep 30 && modprobe iwldvm
```
The first part will remove the driver as soon as the script is executed, the second part (after "&&") will make it wait for 30 seconds, the last part (after 2nd "&&") will load it again. Since this script (/etc/rc.local) is run as root, you don't need to add "sudo" before the commands. You can change the value of sleep from 30 to anything that suits you best.

> And lastly, mostly just out of curiosity, why do you think it's not loading correctly initially?
Like I said above, I currently have no idea. If you are interested in finding out (and hopefully avoid the above workaround), please run a different version of wireless_script and post back its output : [http://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/qjc87hzk1z5x6z0/wireless_script](http://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/qjc87hzk1z5x6z0/wireless_script)

If even the extended parts in the above script don't give any hints, we may need more outputs, logs to look at. It's up to you how much you are interested in knowing the reason and how far you are willing to go to find it. For me, this would be fun trip, but be forewarned, my success rate in unknown areas is very little. :)

---

### Post by kevin21 on 2013-09-11
Hey Varun,

Sorry yesterday was a real busy day.  Attached is the output from the different wireless script.  Enjoy :)

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-09-11
> **kevin21 said:**
>  Enjoy :)

I tried, really I did, but there's nothing in the newer output that I could enjoy, no hints at all :(

If you don't run the two commands (modprobe -rfv and modprobe -v), does the speed still drop? Does running the two commands still help? Without any parameters?

Please try these two scenarios after a fresh reboot. I'm suspecting it could be just a coincidence. If not, and just unloading-reloading the driver (running the two commands) really helps.... then as a further attempt to uncover the mystery:

please do a fresh reboot > start using the net (preferably something that causes the speed to drop) > run the two modprobe commands to reload the modules > run the following commands to archive the full logs onto your desktop -
```
cd /var/log
tar -cjf ~/Desktop/logs.tar.bz2 dmesg syslog
```
This will create a file "logs.tar.bz2" on your desktop. Double-click to open the file and check yourself that no sensitive information is contained in the logs (there won't be any, but just as a precaution).

If there is info that you might consider sensitive (like your MAC id), extract the logs and remove or obscure such lines and compress the logs again in an archive with right-click menu (Ubuntu Forum doesn't allow huge text files as attachments). Attach this archive in your next post.

I am really mystified by the fact that just a reload of the modules can fix a speed drop issue. Hopefully, a full log could shed some light on why..

---

### Post by kevin21 on 2013-09-13
Varun,

I ran for a few hours this morning before the internet started giving me trouble.  I then reloaded the modules and ran for a little bit more.  Attached are the logs you requested.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-09-14
Sorry I didn't get enough time earlier to take a look at those logs. But now that I have, they look incomplete ? The syslog is missing possibly something interesting after 4th last line, or after the last line (nothing after "stage 4" of connection), and dmesg seems to be missing everything interesting. Even the successful connection attempt logged in syslog is not reflected in dmesg, which is impossible.

I can't say what may have went wrong but could you please try that again? This time, just manually browse to the /var/log directory, select dmesg and syslog (after performing events suggested previously) > copy > paste on your desktop > check/edit > right-click > Compress.. and post back.

And to make the current situation more comprehensive, please confirm -

1) What all have you tried so far? What worked, what didn't?
2) Did you create the .conf file suggested in post #10? If yes, let's take a look at it -
```
cat /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
```
3) Do you still need to run the two modprobe commands? Does it stay working afterwards?
4) Does your router support N-channel? Is it enabled?

There are a few suggestions based on a few messages in syslog, like fully [post=12640479]disabling IPv6[/post], using fixed DNS (preferably google's 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4), saving your preferred access-point's MAC in BSSID field of NM (if that is not too inconvenient), and finally, disabling N-channel in the router.

But which of above are really needed which ones not, may be easier to decide with a comprehensive set of log files. And above all, do we need the /etc/rc.local trick that I mentioned in post #10? Or can there be a more decent fix than that (possibly a power management tweak).

In the last, how is the general performance so far. Can we call it even partially solved? Answer to this may help many others having similar issues.

Thanks for your cooperation so far, hope I'm not unnecessarily bugging you. :)

---

### Post by kevin21 on 2013-09-17
> **varunendra said:**
> 1) What all have you tried so far? What worked, what didn't?
What I've found to work is just reloading the [COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]iwldvm[/FONT][/COLOR] module.  Whenever I tried to adjust iwlwifi or add the swcrypto flag it was unable to directly load/access the module.

> **varunendra said:**
> 
2) Did you create the .conf file suggested in post #10? If yes, let's take a look at it -
```
cat /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
```

I never did create the file.  I assumed it probably wouldn't effect anything since manually trying to adjust the module wasn't working.  But I certainly can create it.

> **varunendra said:**
> 
3) Do you still need to run the two modprobe commands? Does it stay working afterwards?

Yes and yes.  I was going to add them to a startup script as you had previously suggested, but since we were still playing with some things I figured I'd hold off for now and continue to do it manually.

> **varunendra said:**
> 
4) Does your router support N-channel? Is it enabled?

It does, and as far as I know it is on by default?

> **varunendra said:**
> 
But which of above are really needed which ones not, may be easier to decide with a comprehensive set of log files. And above all, do we need the /etc/rc.local trick that I mentioned in post #10? Or can there be a more decent fix than that (possibly a power management tweak).

In the last, how is the general performance so far. Can we call it even partially solved? Answer to this may help many others having similar issues.

Thanks for your cooperation so far, hope I'm not unnecessarily bugging you. :)
When I reload the iwldvm modules, all is happy and the system performs great :)  To that end I'm happy calling it solved if you'd like.  But if you want to investigate stuff more I don't mind doing that as well.

Also I've attached the most recent dmsg and syslog again.

Thanks,
Kevin

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-09-18
> **kevin21 said:**
> I never did create the file.  I assumed it probably wouldn't effect anything since manually trying to adjust the module wasn't working.  But I certainly can create it.
I think you should try creating the file with an added parameter that I recently found to be useful in some cases -
```
echo "options iwlwifi swcrypto=1 bt_coex_active=N" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
```
The conf file would make the parameter effective at boot time, without fail. Even if it couldn't help, it shouldn't hurt either. And we can delete it anytime we wish.

If the above two parameters couldn't help, the next thing to try would be disabling the N-channel also - in the driver first, then in the router too if required (at least temporary for a test). To disable it in the driver, just overwrite the above conf file with the additional parameter this time -
```
echo "options iwlwifi swcrypto=1 bt_coex_active=N 11n_disable=1" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
```

If there is still no improvement, disable it in the router too (use b/g mode only). Reboot the router after saving the change.

If both of these changes don't help, then the last thing to try would be the /etc/rc.local workaround that I proposed earlier, or a slight variation of it (you may revert the above changes before trying this)-
```
sleep 20 modprobe -r iwldvm && sleep 10 && modprobe iwldvm
```
The first sleep will wait for 20 seconds before removing the module automatically (hopefully, giving it enough time to load properly and set any initial parameters it needs). The second one will just give a 10 second gap between removing and re-loading the module again. So in effect, this will simulate a reloading of the module almost immediately after it is loaded by the system the first time. You may change the first timing (20 sec) depending upon the booting time of your system. The second one should be good enough for all systems.

With my not-too-extensive experience with iwlwifi, I'm quite hopeful that we won't need this trick with the conf file + disabled N-channel in place.

Eager to see the result, hope to get a good one. :)

---

### Post by kevin21 on 2013-09-23
Varun,

I've now been running for the last few days without a hitch.  As you suggested, I created the iwlwifi conf file with these options
echo "options iwlwifi swcrypto=1 bt_coex_active=N" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
I think at this point...we're good?  Well, as far as it goes for me things are running fine, I haven't had any drops in wifi speed or connections, and I've even been using a vpn here and there without issue.  I'm not sure if you have any other things you'd like me to try to discover more information?  If not I'll call this solved and hail you as a problem solving guru :D

Thanks,
Kevin

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-09-23
> **kevin21 said:**
> I've now been running for the last few days without a hitch.  As you suggested, I created the iwlwifi conf file with these options
echo "options iwlwifi swcrypto=1 bt_coex_active=N" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf

Hey Kevin,

Thank you so very much for your cooperation and continued support. I truly appreciate your persistence and desire to be helpful !

Yes I think we can call it properly solved now, and mark it as such.. I've learned what wanted to, and your feedback has definitely raised my confidence by powers of 10 !!:D

---

