---
title: "8.10 upgrade kills webcam :("
date: 2008-11-07
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by 982000971 on 2008-11-07
Wasn't sure if I had to redo what I did under 8.04 or if the System76 Drivers will fix this. Either way I can't find the original post that contained information for getting the webcam working. I have a Serp1 btw.

Anyway, here's the error msg when opening Camorama: "Could not connect to video device (/dev/video0). Please check connections"

Same thing it gave me for the first year I had my Serp.

---

### Post by brijohn on 2008-11-07
Hmm I'm pretty sure the serp1 uses a microdia based webcam
like my serp2 does. The group for those webcams is located here
[http://groups.google.com/group/microdia](http://groups.google.com/group/microdia)

The old post about this driver on these forums is here
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=774863](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=774863)

If you don't want to bother with compiling and installing on
your own a better alternative is probably to add the following
apt repository and then install the microdia-dkms package

deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/nickel62metal/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/nickel62metal/ubuntu) intrepid main

Note however our driver no longer supports the old v4l1 API interface
meaning even with this driver camorama or other v4l1 applications will
not work. In order to use v4l1 applications you will need to use libv4l
which is already in the ubuntu repositories and offers a compatibility
layer for older v4l1 applications

---

### Post by hkarl629 on 2008-11-14
I have a Serp2 also. The webcam does not work. I am a rank amateur in Linux/Ubuntu and need help. Don't know about compiling etc.so need something that I can download, have it install itself and get the camera working. Your message above seems to be the answer. Could you expand on it so that I could follow the steps and get the webcam working without messing up an otherwise goos computer. Am running Hardy Heron.

Thanks 
hkarl629

---

### Post by brijohn on 2008-11-17
For hardy

Goto
System > Administration > Software Sources

Next click on the "Third-Party Software" tab and click the Add.. button

This should pop up a new window enter the following in the textbox and click Add Source

deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/nickel62metal/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/nickel62metal/ubuntu) hardy main

Finally click Close and when it asks about updating your list of Available software click the Reload button

Next open a terminal (Applications > Accessories > Terminal)

Now enter the following to install the microdia driver

sudo aptitude install microdia-dkms

The microdia drier should no be installed on your system

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-11-17
I think this is the thread you were looking for...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4918932#post4918932](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4918932#post4918932)

---

### Post by hkarl629 on 2008-11-18
Thanks for the details to get my webcam working. Camerama says, "could not connect to video device (/dev/video0) please check connection" _I don't know how to do this_. What I did do was go through setting up ekiga. And I get a picture, so the camera is functioning in that program. I am glad to get that measure of success and thanks again.  If you have any more tips to take me further down the road I would appreciate any and all.  I'm wondering what might happen when I upgrade to Intrepid Ibex? Seems to be a lot of forum traffic regarding problems.

---

### Post by brijohn on 2008-11-19
Yes camorama will not work by itself as it only supports the much older v4l1 API and the microdia driver is v4l2 only. If you would like older applications like camorama to work you will need to use libv4l which is not in the hardy repositories, it is in the intrepid ones for people using intrepid. However for hardy you have to manually compile it. It can be download from [http://freshmeat.net/projects/libv4l/](http://freshmeat.net/projects/libv4l/)

once unpacked you can build and and installing it by typong the following commands from within the directory to which it was unpacked.
$ make
$ make install PREFIX=/usr

now to run camorama do the enter the following.
$ export LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l1/v4l1compat.so
$ camorama

---

### Post by hkarl629 on 2008-11-19
Hi, brijohn

Thnaks for the help getting my Serp2 webcam working. Maybe camorama is not the best program to use. I see other folks use Cheese, I wonder if this would be a better, easier choice?

When I fired up ekiga I saw the camera was working. I'd like it to work in a program that would do a capture and then be able to send that as an email.  Any suggestions?

Thank you again for your help.

hkarl629

---

### Post by hkarl629 on 2008-11-21
Removed non-working camerama and installed Cheese.  Webcam now works in Cheese and apparently will also work in Ekiga.

Thanks for the guidance to get this feature working on my Serp2.

---

### Post by werewolves on 2008-11-22
Webcam is not working on my Daru2 since 8.10 either.  I tried installing this driver, but it didn't work.  Any suggestions for getting the webcam working on a Daru2?

PS: Intrepid Ibex 64 bit

---

### Post by ljrossi on 2008-11-23
Same mess . I update from 8.04 to 8.10 .

WebCam  Sunplus Flexcam 100

I have Green images or no video at all , on Camorama, cheese ,skype.

Is there anyway to go back to 8,04 drivers instead 8.10 .On a easy way like repositories? 
Can Ubuntu acept trouble and fix this just going back to older drivers?

If many cam fail why has this not been test on the betas?

Regards

---

### Post by werewolves on 2008-11-24
Bump

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-11-25
Werewolves, please include more information about what you've tried already. What cam program are you using?

Camorama won't work with the daru2, cheese is broken.
Have you tried Ekiga Softphone or Skype?

Also, on the DarU2, the P2 button turns the cam on and off.

---

### Post by werewolves on 2008-11-27
I tried Cheese, wasn't aware that it was broken.  Also tried Ekiga and I get "Error while opening video device USB 2.0 Camera" ... "Your video driver doesn't support the requested video format".

Edit: That is after I hit P2 to turn it on.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-11-27
OK. In Ekiga, go to Edit > Preferences > Video Devices

Set the video plugin to V4L2.

---

### Post by werewolves on 2008-11-27
Hmm, I don't seem to have that option.  Weird.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-11-28
Under Edit > Preferences in Ekiga, you don't have this? (attached)

---

### Post by werewolves on 2008-11-28
No sir, see attached.

---

### Post by brijohn on 2008-11-29
If ekiga does not list a v4l2 plugin it likely means you are missing
the libpt v4l2 plugin. Open a terminal window and install it using
the following command.

# sudo apt-get install libpt-1.10.10-plugins-v4l2

---

### Post by werewolves on 2008-11-29
> **brijohn said:**
> If ekiga does not list a v4l2 plugin it likely means you are missing
the libpt v4l2 plugin. Open a terminal window and install it using
the following command.

# sudo apt-get install libpt-1.10.10-plugins-v4l2

OK, great, thank you.  Now I have the V4L2 option.  Unfortunately, now all I get is a green screen, instead of a picture of my lovely mug.  See attached.

---

### Post by 982000971 on 2008-11-30
> **thomasaaron said:**
> I think this is the thread you were looking for...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4918932#post4918932](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4918932#post4918932)

Thanks, this is what I was looking for (don't know why I couldn't find it?)

Any reason this hasn't been rolled into the System76 Driver? It did the trick for me (though I am having trouble getting this loaded at startup for some reason)...

---

### Post by WinzZ on 2008-12-10
anyone can help me where i can download webcam driver for sony vaio cr type.
i'm use ubuntu 8.10

$lsusb
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 05ca:1839 Ricoh Co., Ltd
 
thanks

---

### Post by BentSlightly on 2009-01-28
what is up with this?

I got a Logitech Quickcam Deluxe and it is a complete fail. The only forms of support I find are rather oblique considering the number of people with issues involved.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-01-28
This forum is for supporting System76 computers. Are you using a system76 computer? If so, which model?

Unfortunately, we do not have any third party web cams to test with. You might want to start with the Ubuntu Community Documentation for web cams...
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Webcam](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Webcam)

---

