---
title: "10.10 64bit on Serp4 Issues"
date: 2010-10-20
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by thinman1189 on 2010-10-20
I recently did a clean install of 10.10 64bit onto my Serp4 and have been having issues. Some of them are actually old issues from past versions that haven't been fixed yet, but my usual workarounds aren't working.

Sound:
Terrible. Lots of skipping in playing audio. Typically every 22seconds or so it skips. In past releases, I nuked Pulseaudio and used alsa instead and that fixed it. However, that is not working this time. 

```
sudo apt-get purge libcanberra-pulse pulseaudio pulseaudio-esound-compat pulseaudio-module-bluetooth pulseaudio-module-gconf pulseaudio-module-udev   pulseaudio-module-x11 gstreamer0.10-pulseaudio pulseaudio-utils pavucontrol 

sudo apt-get install gnome-alsamixer alsa-oss python-alsaaudio
```

Usually works, but didn't this time. And now, System > Preferences > Sound won't open, it just displays a screen that says waiting for it to respond, with a cancel button. The skipping is less frequent after purging pulse, but it still happens at least 5 times per 3 minute song.

Unlike with Pulse, where the skipping was almost exactly every 22 seconds, sometimes this skipping seems to correlate to certain activities of the system. Sometimes it's a notification, sometimes it's a firefox page loading slowly. Could it be an issue with a driver, flash, or something else? It still seems to skip randomly, so I'm not sure if I am just trying to find a correlation when there is no actual relationship.

Also, as usual with removing Pulse, the volume keyboard shortcuts are broken, and remapping doesn't work.


System76 Driver:
I don't know if this is partly the cause of the above issues. I installed the driver per the instructions, but when I click on the install Drivers button, it stops responding and never shows any progress or completes. Only way to stop it is to force close.

Update Manager:
Important security updates won't install - 

Header files related to kernel version 2.6.35
Linux kernel headers for version 2.6.35 on x86/x86_64
Linux kernel image for version 2.6.35 on x86/x86_64
Linux Kernel Headers for development

Download reaches 98% then falls back down to 85% for the kernel image. It never completes. Not sure if this is an issue with the mirror, but I'm a little wary to install a new image if it appears to be corrupting and redownloading.

Amarok:
I usually use Amarok for music playing, but this time when I installed it, the sky fell. It froze on launch and I needed to force close. After that, any icon in gnome opened Amarok, instead of their actual app. This led to several instances of Amarok running, and several dozen k server instances running. It took several restarts and some tricky keyboard shortcuts to get it uninstalled. Has anyone else had issues with it? I'm scared to try it again.

Network:
It seems to be dropping a lot recently. Not sure if it is related to this, or is just my Uni's net undergoing issues. Maybe a cause of the update issue?

Other:
Just thought it was funny that after purging Pulse, using the keyboard shortcut for volume control breaks the Gnome theme to a really, really poorly graphics version of what looks like clearlooks styled theme.

Logs: Attached.

---

### Post by isantop on 2010-10-20
This sounds like it could be a bad burn/download. I'd try re-downloading the image, then re-burn it as slowly as possible. Try running for a while on the LiveCD to see if these issues pop up.

---

### Post by thinman1189 on 2010-10-20
Games are also effected. Gameplay is choppy in frozen bubble and super tux kart, games that shouldn't put a dent in my specs.

---

### Post by thinman1189 on 2010-10-20
Weird. Setting the Video driver to 173 instead of version current fixed everything... thanks Nvidia?

---

