---
title: "Starling Resolution - Actually 1024x600?"
date: 2009-12-31
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by jerickson314 on 2009-12-31
I have a star1 that I ordered in late October 2009.  It was advertised as having a 1024x576 resolution on the System76 web site.  However, xrandr (as well as the graphical Display settings) show the resolution as 1024x600.  I verified using kruler that the vertical resolution indeed appears to be 600, at least as far as X is concerned, and I can't discern any missing lines of pixels on the screen.  The resolution of just the main area of the screen (below the UNR bar at the top) is about 1024x576.

Does this mean that the resolution is higher than advertised?  Of course, I am pleasantly surprised if this is the case, but then the web site should be updated with the correct resolution.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-12-31
Hmmm... I've got a fairly new Starling here on my desk, and it shows 1024x576 (16:9).

I'll have to check into that one. 

Could you please post the output of...

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by jerickson314 on 2009-12-31
My xorg.conf:

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
No mention of the resolution (which doesn't surprise me, since I haven't had to configure the resolution on my Gentoo machine with newer X.org releases), so I think it's autodetecting from the display.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-12-31
> No mention of the resolution (which doesn't surprise me, since I haven't had to configure the resolution on my Gentoo machine with newer X.org releases), so I think it's autodetecting from the display.

Yes, I concur.

I've sent out a query on this one to our mfg facility. Thanks for bringing it to my attention.

---

