---
title: "9.04 boot times on s76 laptops"
date: 2009-05-01
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by miniyak on 2009-05-01
hey folks, im looking to get a pangolin and wondering what the boot time is? Im also curious how much boot time has improved in 9.04 for the other laptop models and how long it take to get out of sleep and hibernate?

---

### Post by riseringseeker on 2009-05-02
> **miniyak said:**
> hey folks, im looking to get a pangolin and wondering what the boot time is? Im also curious how much boot time has improved in 9.04 for the other laptop models and how long it take to get out of sleep and hibernate?

I have an older model Darter Ultra, and though I did not time the boot with 8.10, with 9.04 it is quite noticeably quicker.  Boot time for me now from hitting the power switch to a working desktop is less than 40 seconds.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-05-02
I've got a DarU1 too. Same story.

On my GazV5, it is lightning quick. I've raced it against the DarU1, and it beats it by about 10 seconds.

---

### Post by drewbenn on 2009-05-02
I have a panv3.  Unfortunately I didn't think to save any of my old bootchart logs when I did a clean install, but before the clean install I did a 8.10->9.04 upgrade and compared the newest bootchart logs to some of the older ones and the 9.04 bootups were within the range of the 8.10 bootups (in 8.10 there was up to a few seconds delta between bootups).  Bootcharts in 8.10 were, if I remember correctly, in the 25-30 second range to power up; it (very subjectively) doesn't feel like it has changed significantly since the clean install.

I never used suspend before 9.04 (I think I had problems with it at one time and so I just always turned it off) but I'm using it now (I didn't intend to enable suspend, the laptop just started suspending itself after it's been idle for a while) so I can't compare to anything, but it now takes about 5 seconds to resume from suspend before I can enter my password; if I enter my password right away then there's a couple more seconds before the WLAN reconnects.

---

