---
title: "11.04 Natty on Ratel has anyone tried?"
date: 2011-06-02
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by jr223 on 2011-06-02
Howdy,

Just wondering if any one has done the upgrade to 11.04 for a system76 Ratel Ultra desktop?

Of course I want to do the update through package manager not a full re-install using an 11.04 CD.
If so did everything work well for the above upgrade?

Thanks
Jr223

---

### Post by jeffran on 2011-06-02
I did a completely new install (not upgrade) on my ratu1 and everything works. This at least tells me all the hardware is OK w/11.04. I'd think an upgrade would work just fine. - Jeff

---

### Post by jr223 on 2011-06-03
> **jeffran said:**
> I did a completely new install (not upgrade) on my ratu1 and everything works. This at least tells me all the hardware is OK w/11.04. I'd think an upgrade would work just fine. - Jeff

Thanks!

Ok I will try an upgrade, on the weekend.
But before I do I will image my current setup for my Ratel.
Let the fun begin.

I will post the results.

Thanks
Jeff

---

### Post by jr223 on 2011-06-03
I have now completed the Update from 10.04 to 11.04 Natty.
The update was done through the online update.

It took about 2 hours to complete.
So far everything looks great and I'm looking forward to play around with
Unity desktop.

To clarify things:
* Online update/upgrade from System76 Ratel from 10.04 to Natty 11.04 went fine.
*Time taken about +2 hours over DSL
*My original applications appear to be intact and working(further testing needed).
*Original home docs and files etc. are all intact.
*Firefox book marks are intact and working.
*Desktop wallpaper changer (desktopNova) working Yeehhh!

Updates to follow
My system:
System76 Ratel

---

### Post by isantop on 2011-06-06
Great to hear of your success! Have fun with Natty!

---

