---
title: "12.04 installation on older Sys76 laptop"
date: 2012-05-21
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by jmlattis on 2012-05-21
I've been trying to install 12.04 on my older System76 laptop model S62J.  (Don't remember the cute name.  And the fancy System76 support system doesn't seem to remember that I purchased this laptop, so I can't open a support case there!)  The installation crashes when the installer tries to turn on the webcam to take my photo while setting up the user account.  The installation then fails to finish and the system is broken.
How do I get the installation to work?
Thanks.

---

### Post by Ubun2to on 2012-05-22
Have you tried skipping the webcam part and leaving it for later?
I would skip the webcam until 12.04 was setup, then I would go to get drivers from them.

---

### Post by jmlattis on 2012-05-22
Thanks, but I see no option to skip that part during the graphical installation.

---

### Post by isantop on 2012-05-22
> **jmlattis said:**
> Thanks, but I see no option to skip that part during the graphical installation.

Does this happen on multiple installation CDs? It almost sounds like a problem with the installer.

Also, if you press the webcam hotkey, this will turn off the webcam and allow you to continue.

---

### Post by jmlattis on 2012-05-22
I checked the hash code with md5sum on the downloaded iso against the Ubuntu site, then checked the cd and the bootable flash drive the same way.  All are fine.  Both boot devices result in the same error.

Not sure if the webcam has a hotkey.
Does anyone from System76 read this forum?

---

### Post by drewbenn on 2012-05-23
> **jmlattis said:**
> Does anyone from System76 read this forum?

isantop is System76's representative in these forums :guitar:

I tried to find something to that effect at system76.com, but couldn't, so you'll just have to take my word for it (or his, or look at his profile, or look through his recent posts).

---

### Post by isantop on 2012-05-24
> **jmlattis said:**
> I checked the hash code with md5sum on the downloaded iso against the Ubuntu site, then checked the cd and the bootable flash drive the same way.  All are fine.  Both boot devices result in the same error.

Not sure if the webcam has a hotkey.
Does anyone from System76 read this forum?

Yep, indeed! [http://ubuntuone.com/68wj1t3a4F2bKdBXoflRCf](http://ubuntuone.com/68wj1t3a4F2bKdBXoflRCf)

Also, it looks like there is no way to turn off the webcam. We'll have to find some way around that. Can you tell me exactly which file you downloaded?

---

