---
title: "12.04.1 partial upgrade broke X"
date: 2012-08-16
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by Rich_S on 2012-08-16
This is upsetting, as I finally had my Gazelle Pro running smoothly after the 12.04 upgrade months back.

Anyway, I got the message today that a system upgrade to 12.04.1 was available, I went to run it, and it tells me I can only do a partial upgrade.  

I run it and on reboot I get command line.  I tried to restart lightdm and it fails.  Switch over to gdm and that fails too.  Problem seems to be with Xorg or nvidia driver.

From Xorg.0.log:

NVIDIA(0): Failed to initialize the GLX module, blah blah blah
NVIDIA(0): Failed to initialize the nvidia kernel module. blah, blah, blah
...
Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration

I tried reinstalling the nvidia driver but it's telling me it's already current.

Any help appreciated.

---

### Post by Rich_S on 2012-08-16
running dmesg gives me: 

NVRM: API mismatch: the client has the version 295.49, but this kernel module has the version 304.37.  Please make sure that this kernel module and all NVIDIA driver components have the same version.

This has to be the problem.  How do I fix it?

---

### Post by Rich_S on 2012-08-17
This seemed to work:

sudo apt-get purge nvidia* 
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current-updates-dev
sudo shutdown -r now

By work, I mean it still reboots to a command line but at least now I can do a:

/etc/init.d/lightdm restart

to get to my desktop.

---

### Post by Rich_S on 2012-08-17
Ok, fixed that problem too.

/etc/X11/default-display-manager

had lightdm instead of /usr/sbin/lightdm

Hope this helps someone else.

---

### Post by yogeshlonkar on 2012-08-17
> **Rich_S said:**
> Ok, fixed that problem too.

/etc/X11/default-display-manager

had lightdm instead of /usr/sbin/lightdm

Hope this helps someone else.


Thanks a Lot i had been bumping my head for 2-3 day's finally found solution=D>:biggrin:

---

### Post by raldi on 2012-08-19
> **Rich_S said:**
> Hope this helps someone else.

You bet it did.  This issue ruined my Saturday night and had me tearing my hair out all Sunday morning.  Thanks for saving what's left of my weekend!

---

### Post by xlearner on 2012-08-22
Hey Rich_S,

Thanks a lot for your suggestions. Even I had the same problem and your solution fixed it :-)!

Although I did understand what you said finally: 

```

/etc/X11/default-display-manager had lightdm instead of /usr/sbin/lightdm 

```

Xlearner

---

### Post by Takis on 2012-09-02
Bloody useful, thanks Rich_S.

I should add that although X itself seemed fixed, whenever I was logged in (either though an autologin or when it borked and asked me to enter a password at the X login screen), something screwed up and I got kicked back to the X login screen. I backed up the important things in my home directory (fortunately only'd had it installed for a few days, hadn't started amassing everything!), deleted /home/me/* and /home/me/.* and tried again, and everything's been fine since.

---

### Post by waferboard on 2012-09-03
This was awesome! Thanks. I just upgraded from 10.04 to 12.04, and, not being command-line savvy, was perplexed and depressed by that blinking cursor. In my case I suspect whatever was controlling the video card needed a nudge. "sudo apt-get install nvidia-current-updates-dev" is what did it in my case.

Thanks again for posting your results!

---

### Post by Neilrahc on 2012-10-07
Thanks Rich_S - worked for me too!

lightdm broke in 12.04 when attempting to add a 2nd display with nvidia. now back to that - hopefully won't break again.

---

### Post by Rich_S on 2012-10-07
Just FYI - the problem came back after one of the recent updates.

Running:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure lightdm

Got me squared away again.

---

### Post by Rich_S on 2012-10-12
Hate to keep bumping this, but the problem came back again this morning after a kernel upgrade.

I ran all the previous steps I posted and no dice.

However, I found something else that worked in another forum:

Add "sleep 2" in /etc/init/lightdm.conf right before the "exec lightdm" line.

Apparently, lightdm is trying to start before the kernel has fully loaded the nvidia module, and pausing briefly let's it catch up.

Working again..........for now.

---

### Post by jboehm on 2013-01-02
For the next person the comes along.  Rich_S had the answer.  The problem popped up when I replaced my  spinning HD with and SSD.  Thanks Rich_S for securing the best fix.  Removing the nvidia drivers as others are suggesting is a really bad option. 

Before I did his fix my system would only boot 1 in 10 times.  Since, I've rebooted 5 or 6 times with now problems.  Time will tell but I'm 95% positive I'm solved

Thanks 

TAG: "Failed to initialize the NVIDIA kernel module."

> **Rich_S said:**
> Hate to keep bumping this, but the problem came back again this morning after a kernel upgrade.

I ran all the previous steps I posted and no dice.

However, I found something else that worked in another forum:

Add "sleep 2" in /etc/init/lightdm.conf right before the "exec lightdm" line.

Apparently, lightdm is trying to start before the kernel has fully loaded the nvidia module, and pausing briefly let's it catch up.

Working again..........for now.

---

