---
title: "gazp3 10.04 shutdown stuck on plymouth screen"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by voidmage on 2010-04-29
When I try to shut down I get stuck on the plymouth screen. The dots on this screen continue to move but nothing happens. I've done a shutdown, packed it up, and took it out an hour later to see it's either still on the plymouth screen or the battery died. The only way I know of to get it to turn off is to hold the power button. Is anyone else having this problem?

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2010-04-30
Did you do an online upgrade or a fresh install?

---

### Post by voidmage on 2010-04-30
I did an online upgrade to alpha 3. I upgraded to the latest packages last night.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2010-04-30
[LIST]
[*]Make note of the time on the system clock.
[*]Shut the machine down. Hard power it off when it freezes.
[*]Restart the machine.
[*]Run...
[/LIST]
```
cat /var/log/syslog >> ~/Desktop/syslog.txt
```
[LIST]
[*]Attach the file this creates on your Desktop to this thread.
[*]Let me know the time you recorded (first step)
[/LIST]

You also might want to start considering a fresh install. If you have a hosed online upgrade: 1) there could be other things wrong that you've just not discovered yet; or 2) it could take a lot less time to install than figure it out. Just a heads up.

---

### Post by voidmage on 2010-04-30
I shut down at 14:14 right after logging in.

---

### Post by cak3 on 2010-04-30
I had an identical problem which I tracked down to the free (non-proprietary) radeon kernel module with KMS (kernel mode setting, enabled by default in lucid kernels) and my card (HD 3200). If you are using that (maybe not the same card, it might effect more than one), you might want to try the fix I came up with here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1463092](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1463092) (see the second post just for the fix).

For more details on exactly what was going on (the problem is related to KMS) I also linked a bug report in the first post
If you aren't using the radeon module, the problem is probably related to some other module failing to unload on shutdown.

don't know much about system76, so not sure if that model uses that hardware. I came across some other posts about a similar issue, but the problem was with the snd_hda_intel module not unloading properly (not sure what hardware that was on).

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2010-04-30
Well, he's running an nVidia card. So that might turn out to be a good lead. 

Go to System > Admin > Hardware Drivers and see if your nVidia driver is enabled.

---

### Post by voidmage on 2010-05-08
I'm running the current nvidia drivers, 195.36.15-0ubuntu3.

Also it looks like it still responds to keyboard stuff. I've tried ctrl+alt+f1-f6 and they switched to ttys that didn't take any input (probably because it's shutting down). Doing ctrl+alt+f7 got me back to the plymouth screen. It also responded to ctrl+alt+del to reboot. That's all that I tried.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2010-05-10
OK, there's not a lot there to help me figure out what's going on. I did find some kernel options that might help.

Open a terminal and run the following command...

```
sudo /etc/default/grub
```

...and locate this line...

> GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"

Remove this part...

> "quiet splash"

...so that it looks like this...
> 
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=

Save the file, and then run...

```
sudo update-grub
```

Then reboot (it probably will hang). Then start the machine back up again and try to shut it down.

If that doesn't work, add...

"quiet boot" back as an option and add...

acpi_enforce_resources=lax so that it all looks like this...

> GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi_enforce_resources=lax"
Save the file, and then run...

```
sudo update-grub
```

Then reboot (it probably will hang). Then start the machine back up again and try to shut it down.

If none of that works, I'd just do a fresh install. Something is hosed in your upgrade, and the syslog isn't telling me a lot.

---

