---
title: "9.04 Wicd wireless issue - Starling"
date: 2009-11-16
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by Random201801 on 2009-11-16
Today I've had some recent issues with my wireless connection. A day prior I was running at about 90% in my room (which is about 30-40 feet away from the router), and with fast connection speed after switching from network manager to wicd. Today after going to school with my starling, it shows that I'm at 47% and webpages don't load up, despite the connection. I was having this issue, so I decided to upgrade to wicd 2.0, which didn't fix anything.
I was wondering why the wireless is running differently?
Everything is up to date and all of a sudden my wireless is running strange.

Help? hah.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-11-17
I've never tested wicd with a Starling, but it sounds like you ran some updates that may have broken your wireless. Try this...

Establish a wired Internet connection. Then go to Administration > Update Manager. Click the "Check" button, and then install any updates. Then reboot your computer.

Now go to Administration > System76 Driver. Click the "Install" tab and the "Install" button. When the driver finishes, reboot your computer.

Your wireless LED now should be on, and you should be able to see wireless access points. If you cannot, there is a spring-loaded toggle switch on the right-hand side of the leading edge of your Starling. Toggle it *ONCE* to the right, and then release it. Now, reboot your computer.

Did that fix it?

I would advise not upgrading to Karmic yet. Please see the first post of this thread...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1304532&highlight=karmic+upgrade+instructions](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1304532&highlight=karmic+upgrade+instructions)

We've released the 2.4.0 verion of the System76 Driver, which provides short-range wireless capabilities for the Starling until we are finished working on the full-scale fix. Please subscribe to the above post to be notified when a driver with the final fix is released.

---

