---
title: "8.10 today, 9.04 tomorrow or 9.04 beta today"
date: 2009-03-17
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by imhavoc on 2009-03-17
Just throwing this against the wall to see what you other 76ers are thinking.

I ordered a new hard drive for the dearly beloved Daru2 (Darter Ultra 2).

I could install 8.10 64-bit today.

or

I could wait 6 weeks and install 9.04 "tomorrow."

or

I could install 9.04 beta today, and suffer the outrageous slings and arrows of an unfinished distro.

I do use this machine for everything, and I'm running 8.04-32bit right now.

I want suspend and some other features found only in the 64-bit kernels. I'm also having to do some video editing for my job, and the video editors don't like 8.04.

So.... thoughts?

---

### Post by Lee_Machine on 2009-03-17
Well the beta is not out yet, so that is not even an option. I personally would just install 8.10, and use that. Wait some time after jaunty comes out, let S76 release their driver, and then install it. 

But I would recomend upgrading to 9.04, if not for just one thing it would be ext4. From what I have used of it so far the over performance is faster. 

If you use multiple computers with Ubuntu then try it on a machine that is not used as much. I would even go as far as to install the Beta on the 26th on this machine. See if you even like it.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-03-17
Just be aware that we won't be supporting Jaunty until it is officially released.

I just created a wrestling demo dvd for my son using Kino in 8.10 64-bit. It worked out really well.

---

### Post by williumbillium on 2009-03-17
> **imhavoc said:**
> I want suspend and some other features found only in the 64-bit kernels.

Bear in mind that suspend doesn't work on the Daru2 with any ubuntu release past gutsy, 64 bit or not.

---

### Post by imhavoc on 2009-03-17
> **williumbillium said:**
> Bear in mind that suspend doesn't work on the Daru2 with any ubuntu release past gutsy, 64 bit or not.

WHAT!?

That's so-o-o-o wrong!

Thomas Aaron!

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-03-17
Unfortunately, it's true. We've spent hundreds of hours trying to fix it -- and still are. There are some other threads that discuss this more in depth.

---

### Post by flukeairwalker on 2009-03-17
When we upgrade to Jaunty, is there anything special we're going to have to do to take advantage of ext4?

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2009-03-18
Laptop hardware in general is very specific,so first of all I expect a driver issue. I wouldn't try anything on my laptop until I get a clear sign from system76, besides, right now, I need the laptop to really work without glitches for me, I cannot afford to spend the time and effort to fix anything that might be wrong.

I would put the beta on my desktop (not sys76), but I am very busy at work right now, so I would probably wait until late May before I do anything.

---

### Post by kperkins on 2009-03-21
> **flukeairwalker said:**
> When we upgrade to Jaunty, is there anything special we're going to have to do to take advantage of ext4?
Yes --do a complete reinstall, and repartitioning.

---

### Post by Vadi on 2009-03-22
Do bear in mind this bug though: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/317781](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/317781) [Ext4 data loss]

Which does not look like it will be solved anytime soon.

---

### Post by flukeairwalker on 2009-03-23
> **kperkins said:**
> Yes --do a complete reinstall, and repartitioning.

Doh! Oh well, it's not like this laptop has so much stuff that backing up will be a hassle. I just wonder if the ext4 bug is really an issue I have to be worried about. I'm not a power user or anything, just use my pretty Pangolin for the usual stuff.

---

### Post by jdb on 2009-03-23
> **Vadi said:**
> Do bear in mind this bug though: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/317781](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/317781) [Ext4 data loss]

Which does not look like it will be solved anytime soon.

I've been running one partition ext4 just to try it out, but after reading that, I changed it back to ext3.

jdb

---

### Post by lachild on 2009-03-23
> **Vadi said:**
> Do bear in mind this bug though: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/317781](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/317781) [Ext4 data loss]

Which does not look like it will be solved anytime soon.

I don't understand... Theodore Ts'o notes clearly explain that this is not a bug but it was doing what it was designed to do.  He also stated that he already updated the code so EXT4 acts more like EXT3 which should correct this until the programs causing these issues are corrected.   I'm not trying to pick a fight as I am just an ignorant end user who is using EXT4 and I'm curious if you believe this is really still a bug and something that needs fixed, or has this already been addressed and why?

---

### Post by jdb on 2009-03-23
> **lachild said:**
> I don't understand... Theodore Ts'o notes clearly explain that this is not a bug but it was doing what it was designed to do.  He also stated that he already updated the code so EXT4 acts more like EXT3 which should correct this until the programs causing these issues are corrected.   I'm not trying to pick a fight as I am just an ignorant end user who is using EXT4 and I'm curious if you believe this is really still a bug and something that needs fixed, or has this already been addressed and why?

It doesn't matter much if it's a bug or by design, you're more likely to lose data in a crash or a lockup.

As far as I concerned, that outweighs any other advantages & I'm not using it until there's an option to disable that "feature".

jdb

---

### Post by Vadi on 2009-03-23
> **lachild said:**
> I don't understand... Theodore Ts'o notes clearly explain that this is not a bug but it was doing what it was designed to do.  He also stated that he already updated the code so EXT4 acts more like EXT3 which should correct this until the programs causing these issues are corrected.   I'm not trying to pick a fight as I am just an ignorant end user who is using EXT4 and I'm curious if you believe this is really still a bug and something that needs fixed, or has this already been addressed and why?

This either needs to be addressed by gnome and kde or ext4, but atm it's not decided who should do what (application developers aren't all that happy yet to start updating the apps as there are issues), but as an end-user, all you have to care about is that with in sudden power loss your data is safer with ext3 than ext4.

---

### Post by lachild on 2009-03-23
Ok so if I'm reading this right, his update to make it act more like EXT3 to fix this issue, didn't really fix it and we're all better off with EXT3?

---

### Post by Vadi on 2009-03-23
Better off with ext3 for now until the situation is stabilized. This delayed allocation does have its performance improvements, but a power loss counters that well too. Application programmers / power saving people are ~ on this too: [http://mjg59.livejournal.com/108257.html?thread=1314273](http://mjg59.livejournal.com/108257.html?thread=1314273)

Really best thing to do, unless you're on a laptop or a desktop with a UPS, is to stick to ext3.

---

### Post by lachild on 2009-03-23
Vadi,

Thanks.  That post really helped explain things.  Plus it was interesting read. ;)


LaChild

---

### Post by Vadi on 2009-03-23
You should also then read [http://thunk.org/tytso/blog](http://thunk.org/tytso/blog) , the blog of the Theorode Tso's. Some really thoughtful discussion going on in the comments, but all I get out of is that there is no clear solution that is accepted by everyone nor a consensus atm. So I do doubt this will get ironed out by 9.04 release and glad ext3 will still be default.

---

