---
title: "10.04 Starling SD card"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by bvandev on 2010-05-01
I reinstalled UNR 10.04 as a clean install, downloaded and ran the System76 driver.  The wireless runs fine.  The mic works fine.  But the SD card does not work.  The card is  not recognized.  I verified before the install that the card would mount in the Starling.

The card is a 2GB SD.  Nothing fancy.

Anybody else having this problem?

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2010-05-03
Please run...

tail -f /var/log/syslog

...then insert the card and post the output.

---

### Post by bvandev on 2010-05-03
Here you go, but inserting the card yielded no entry.  It is as if the card reader is not there.

bill@ziwigs:~$ tail -f /var/log/syslog
May  3 19:56:24 ziwigs NetworkManager: <debug> [1272930984.047456] periodic_update(): Roamed from BSSID 00:1E:2A:54:DE:AC (backyard) to 00:1A:70:32:C8:A2 (backyard)
May  3 19:56:24 ziwigs NetworkManager: <info>  Policy set 'Auto backyard' (wlan1) as default for routing and DNS.
May  3 19:56:24 ziwigs NetworkManager: <info>  Activation (wlan1) successful, device activated.
May  3 19:56:24 ziwigs NetworkManager: <info>  Activation (wlan1) Stage 5 of 5 (IP Configure Commit) complete.
May  3 19:56:25 ziwigs nss_wins[1496]: adjust time server 91.189.94.4 offset -0.470077 sec
May  3 19:56:30 ziwigs kernel: [  338.165047] wlan1: no IPv6 routers present
May  3 19:56:38 ziwigs kernel: [  346.108331] rtl8187B: RTL8187 + 8225 Initial Gain State 3: -78 dBm 
May  3 19:56:58 ziwigs kernel: [  366.104368] rtl8187B: RTL8187 + 8225 Initial Gain State 2: -78 dBm 
May  3 19:57:20 ziwigs AptDaemon: INFO: Quiting due to inactivity
May  3 19:57:20 ziwigs AptDaemon: INFO: Shutdown was requested


Thanks.

---

### Post by bvandev on 2010-05-04
Update:  When I boot the Starling with the SD card in place, the system comes up with the card mounted.  I can then remove it (unmount) and reinsert it, and it works just fine.  But if I boot without it in place it remains unseen.

I tried this based on a couple of bug reports concerning the jmicron SD card reader.  Is this the one in the Starling?

Also, it is still unclear to me if others have experienced the same problem.

Thanks.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2010-05-05
I'll have Ian test that this afternoon. We've not received any other reports on it, but we'll let you know how our shop Starling performs and take it from there.

---

### Post by isantop on 2010-05-06
To update:
I have a starling here in the shop, and I'm imaging it now. I'll get back to you either later today or tomorrow afternoon at the latest with what I've found out.

---

### Post by isantop on 2010-05-06
I have confirmed this bug 100%, down to the last detail. This is a fairly complex bug, and we are continuing to look in to it. There is an open bug report at [Launchpad](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-disk-utility/+bug/530277).

---

### Post by JeevesBond on 2010-05-08
I too own a Starling netbook and -- since I paid good money -- expect things like the SD card reader to work.

From the discussion on the kernel mailing list it seems nothing is going to be done, unless someone chumps up the cash/time to write a kernel driver to support the SD card reader. Is System 76 likely to do that?

---

### Post by jdb on 2010-05-09
> **JeevesBond said:**
> I too own a Starling netbook and -- since I paid good money -- expect things like the SD card reader to work.

From the discussion on the kernel mailing list it seems nothing is going to be done, unless someone chumps up the cash/time to write a kernel driver to support the SD card reader. Is System 76 likely to do that?


It's more a matter of someone who has the expertise having the inclination to do it.
That's how most things in the Linux community get done.

It's amazing how many really talented people spend so much time working on such things in their spare time :)

Some have found ways to get paid for it, but it's mostly a labor of love.

jdb

---

### Post by rlauzon on 2010-05-09
> **bvandev said:**
> Anybody else having this problem?

Nope.  I just updated to 10.04 today.  I popped in a 1GB SD card and the Starling noticed it just like before upgrading.

I tried an 8GB card too just in case it was an SDHC issue.

---

### Post by bvandev on 2010-05-10
rlauzon:  It sounds like you upgraded, rather than performing a fresh install.  I wonder if that made a difference?  Maybe I'll try that out.  

Although, it's really not that big a deal.  I don't use the SD card much and it only takes a minute, literally, to reboot with the card in the slot.

Thanks.

---

### Post by rlauzon on 2010-05-10
> **bvandev said:**
> rlauzon:  It sounds like you upgraded, rather than performing a fresh install.  I wonder if that made a difference?  Maybe I'll try that out.  

Ah, yes.  You are correct.  I did an upgrade rather than a fresh install.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2010-05-10
I'll have a tech test it with the latest proposed kernel today to see if it is fixed.

---

### Post by isantop on 2010-05-10
No luck yet. Unfortunately we'll just have to keep waiting. This seems to be a major issue, and it should get fixed soon.

---

