---
title: "12.04 external monitor wrong colors"
date: 2012-05-06
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by Zvezdica27 on 2012-05-06
hello.

Pangolin performance (p 8 ), new 12.04 install, updated. HDMI external monitor shows wrong colours, washed black etc.

Nothing helps. Tried both 32 and 64 bit usb install drives.

11.04 cd works fine.

Resolution works OK, just colors, like way too much red, inverted look.

Color calibration - no use. LCD TV settings: no use

System 76 driver applied, working (did not detect hd3000 at first, now it shows sandy bridge graphics). This is a big failure. Please help.

UPDATE: when I suspend, and turn back on, the colours are fine. If i restart - inverted again. So, for now, I suspend the machine, but this is clearly not the solution.


Thanks,

Bla&#382;

---

### Post by isantop on 2012-05-07
I would check the cable and ensure that the plug is inserted fully and properly.

---

### Post by Zvezdica27 on 2012-05-08
HI,

as I said, it works when I use older releases' live usb or cd. Only 12.04.

Cable has no effect (believe me I tried several cables).

It seems it is a bug, I got some leads, will reply when I resolve it. As I said, after suspend, things work fine.

Blaž

---

### Post by Zvezdica27 on 2012-05-09
OK, an update.

Kernel 3.3.5 (or 3.4 rc4) do not solve it. Must be either intel driver or an Xorg thing.

System 76 response was -let's be mild - not useful, but I am not letting go! Wll pursue. Have to check driver/X versions, will load dev versions etc...

Apparently I am the only one in the universe with this problem.

update 2: latest dev xorg and intel drivers. no change.

Sys76 says it is a colour calibration issue (they ignored my question if we can replace the computer ;)

b

---

### Post by adlaws on 2012-05-20
Hi,

I'm having a similar issue, if not the same one. You're not alone!

:)

New Ubuntu 12.04 Desktop installation, no problems using a DVI cable to an external monitor, but with an HDMI cable to an LCD TV the colors are wrong.

It looks to me as though the red and green signals have been swapped with each other, or possibly the green and blue - white and black still appear as white and black, but colors looked as if the hue has been shifted. 

For example, the Firefox logo is a purple fox around a green earth, instead of the more traditional orange fox around a blue earth.

Using a Dell Studio Hybrid 140g with a Samsung LA32A450C1Da LCD TV. This combination was displaying correctly when it previously had Windows Vista on it.

Cables are in properly, unplugging/replugging does no good. Rebooting doesn't change anything. Also, suspending doesn't (even temporarily) fix the problem. Have tried a few different settings on the TV's menus to do with picture, but none have any effect.

The TV also has a VGA input, which I haven't tested as yet because I don't have a DVI to VGA adapter with me at the moment, though I will try that when I get a chance.

Also, and probably not unrelated, there is no audio via the HDMI connection.

Any assistance would be appreciated. 

Thanks!

Andrew

---

### Post by brianread on 2012-05-24
I am getting some problems using a Matsui TV as a monitor, connected using a VGA cable.

The deskop is "ok" (although a bit garish), but as soon as I run a video, the colours go to yellows and reds, and are just not right.

Graphics controller is intel 82865G.

Jpg's seem fine. The video is MPEG 2 Video

Any ideas?

---

### Post by chibiconsulting on 2012-05-24
Does this system use an nVidia chip?

If so, read up about some issues with EDID.  Here are two pages, there are many others out there as well so do some web searches if you want more info:
[http://analogbit.com/node/23](http://analogbit.com/node/23) 
[http://hardforum.com/showthread.php?t=1680485](http://hardforum.com/showthread.php?t=1680485)

In summary, nVidia drivers (and possibly others) change the resolution and / or color space of the signal sent to a monitor / TV based on the EDID data returned over HDMI in an attempt to "Optimize" the picture.  This generates similar symptoms to those described.

---

### Post by adlaws on 2012-05-25
Just as a quick update to my original post, I've confirmed that the RGB signals appear to be getting swapped with each other. Using any graphics editor, such as GIMP or Inkscape and using the RGB colour sliders, it's very simple to confirm that...

[LIST]
[*]The Red signal is now being sent as Blue
[*]The Green signal is now being sent as Red
[*]The Blue signal is now being sent as Green
[/LIST]
Other than that, the colours are great - I'm not getting washed out colours or halos around colours or anything like that.



I've also noticed that the monitor type is being reported as a Samsung Electric Company 7" - it's actually a 32" display, so the bad EDID theory looks plausible. Unfortunately I currently have  no way to extract the EDID from the TV, so... :(

---

### Post by Zvezdica27 on 2012-06-07
hi all, 

a brief update. 

VGA works fine (RGB).

HDMI audio occasionally drops down.

It may be true signals in HDMI communication get swapped. As I explained, I suspend and restart to make things work

Now I am plying with xrandr to set things straight, I can almost make it good by setting gamma levels (but xgamma does not work, only trough xrandr). I am not willing to buy a hardware calibrator and can't seem to borrow it anywhere. anyway, it seems there is just way too much green and blue (maybe a swap?)... I will post my script here when I get the gamma levels straight.

Whatever happened, happened between kernels 3.0 and 3.2, most likely between 3.1.5 and 3.2. It is a kernel driver issue, but which one, I dunno.

Same thing happeng with other distros, like fedora 17 (16 works fine).

I will keep digging into this, slowly, but it is amazing no other pan p8 user reports this issue...

zz

---

