---
title: "8.10 Runs funny."
date: 2008-11-30
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by celles on 2008-11-30
I've been a happy System76 Serp4 owner for a good few months now, running 8.04 with no more than a few hitches.

And then I tried to install 8.10.  The install goes smoothly enough, but it runs very poorly from that point on.  The problem seems to be that every time I leave the computer alone for more than a few seconds (say, when downloading 130 megs of updates), it stops; it doesn't freeze or crash or anything, no error dialogs come up, but it stops until I move the mouse and then resumes as though nothing was wrong (at least until I leave it again).  Downloads, installs, everything just stops as though the pause button had been pressed.

I'm concerned that my hardware isn't 100% healthy, 8.04 had some odd glitches in it but nothing nearly this serious.  Is this a normal problem with 8.10 on Serp4's, or is mine going bad?

---

### Post by Lee_Machine on 2008-12-01
That is odd, I have read about bugs with Firefox and Ibex where downloads will pause and Java will not load correctly causing the screen to go gray and pause for a few seconds. I have had that, but I use Iceweasle and have no such issue. You said you were downloading via update manager so that shouldn't be the problem. Also as a note that java issue was with 8.10 running IcedTea and not the official Java web plug-in as there is no 64bit version for Linux.

Are you using a wired or wireless connection? 

I know with my intel wireless driver in my Pangolin I had issues. 

Installing the linux-backports fixed that. You should try that first. just install linux-backports-modules-intrepid in synaptic.

I noticed S76 no longer even uses that particular wireless card.

I had a few bumps in 8.10 but once I fixed those it runs just as it should.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-12-01
We saw something similar to this while booting the computer a while back. We had to add "clocksource=jiffies" to /boot/grub/menu.lst to fix it. The System76 driver does this now. If you've re-imaged and not run your driver, you should do so.

Also, are you using a particular bit torrent program to download?

---

### Post by celles on 2008-12-01
thomasaaron: something similar while booting, does that mean it sometimes will randomly freeze while booting until someone hits the 'enter' key?  I have had that while running 8.04.

The first time I installed 8.10 I did in fact install the System76 driver, and I experienced the freezing problem.  On the second clean install I omitted the driver, but the problem seems to remain.  I'll try it again with the driver, maybe something weird happened.

As for bit torrents, I am not using any particular client, I haven't got past trying to use the package manager to update after installing.  This was where I experienced the freezing problem, both while downloading the updates AND while trying to install them.

Lee_Machine: the issues I'm having have only cropped up while using the update manager, I haven't tried downloading anything using Firefox (or any other browser or program), so I suspect it has nothing to do with those things.

I am using a wireless connection, but maybe on this next round of installation I should try using ethernet; if that works, then maybe the issue is with the wireless.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-12-01
Yes, that's the bug I'm talking about.

For good measure, run this command...
sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-intrepid

This cures a bug with wireless.

Also, please post the output of...
cat /boot/grub/menu.lst

---

### Post by celles on 2008-12-01
It seems that after a) installing the System76 driver and making sure to restore factory settings and b) installing updates using Ethernet, things are running much more smoothly.

I installed those modules, and here is the grub listing:

# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8)
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8),
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-doc/.

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not use 'savedefault' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default		0

## timeout sec
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry
# (normally the first entry defined).
timeout		10

## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
#hiddenmenu

# Pretty colours
#color cyan/blue white/blue

## password ['--md5'] passwd
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the
# command 'lock'
# e.g. password topsecret
#      password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/
# password topsecret

#
# examples
#
# title		Windows 95/98/NT/2000
# root		(hd0,0)
# makeactive
# chainloader	+1
#
# title		Linux
# root		(hd0,1)
# kernel	/vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro
#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=44703cb9-2ca2-4f97-88c0-ad0c8641dc6b ro

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=44703cb9-2ca2-4f97-88c0-ad0c8641dc6b

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options
## e.g. lockold=false
##      lockold=true
# lockold=false

## Xen hypervisor options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenhopt=

## Xen Linux kernel options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenkopt=console=tty0

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=all

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## should update-grub add savedefault to the default options
## can be true or false
# savedefault=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title		Ubuntu 8.10, kernel 2.6.27-9-generic
uuid		44703cb9-2ca2-4f97-88c0-ad0c8641dc6b
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-9-generic root=UUID=44703cb9-2ca2-4f97-88c0-ad0c8641dc6b ro quiet splash 
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-9-generic
quiet

title		Ubuntu 8.10, kernel 2.6.27-9-generic (recovery mode)
uuid		44703cb9-2ca2-4f97-88c0-ad0c8641dc6b
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-9-generic root=UUID=44703cb9-2ca2-4f97-88c0-ad0c8641dc6b ro  single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-9-generic

title		Ubuntu 8.10, kernel 2.6.27-7-generic
uuid		44703cb9-2ca2-4f97-88c0-ad0c8641dc6b
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-7-generic root=UUID=44703cb9-2ca2-4f97-88c0-ad0c8641dc6b ro quiet splash 
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-7-generic
quiet

title		Ubuntu 8.10, kernel 2.6.27-7-generic (recovery mode)
uuid		44703cb9-2ca2-4f97-88c0-ad0c8641dc6b
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-7-generic root=UUID=44703cb9-2ca2-4f97-88c0-ad0c8641dc6b ro  single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-7-generic

title		Ubuntu 8.10, memtest86+
uuid		44703cb9-2ca2-4f97-88c0-ad0c8641dc6b
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title		Other operating systems:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sda1
title		Windows Vista/Longhorn (loader)
root		(hd0,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader	+1

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-12-02
OK. Well, let us know if the problem recurs.

---

### Post by celles on 2008-12-02
Thank you thomasaaron, I'll do that.

I'd just like to say, I've been highly impressed with how helpful you and the others at System76 are.  I am 100% certain I made the right choice, and I would buy another of your machines in an instant.  Good customer service is a lost art.

---

