---
title: "9.04 Bonobo esata not-detected"
date: 2009-05-30
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by sccolbert on 2009-05-30
Hi, 

I have a coolmax external 2.5" esata enclosure that is powered via USB. Ubuntu recognizes the drive if I plug it in via USB only and I get a transfer rate of ~28 MB/s. It's the same drive that is known to work on Pangolin via esata from the other thread in this forum. 

Now, when I plug in the esata cable, the drive disappears and does not remount, scsi-tools cant see it, and a reboot doesnt solve the problem. Further, the drive is not detected in BIOS when connected via esata. Sata Channel 3 shows up as NONE. I tried changing the Sata Channel 3 preference from "auto" to "user" but after saving changes and rebooting, the bios reverts to disabling Sata channel 3. The only setting that will stick and not revert to diabled is "auto", and like I said, the drive is not detected. 

I am using bios 1.00.12.  

Any ideas on how to fix this?

Cheers!

---

### Post by sccolbert on 2009-05-31
I installed windows 7 x64 and was able to get the esata to work. I had to connect the drive as usb, let it mount, then connect the esata cable to the drive, then to the computer, all in that order. Then it was detected as an esata drive and I got sata transfer rates. Using the same procedure in ubuntu doesnt work, it detects as a usb but not esata, no matter if I force a dismount before plugging in the sata cable or not.

Should I file this as a bug?

---

### Post by sccolbert on 2009-05-31
Man do I hate being wrong all the time. 

The drive was detected as I was writing the post. 

So consider it a non issue.

For future googlers, the procedure to get it to work is:

-Plug the drive in as USB only and let it mount. 
-Right click -> unmount drive
-Plug the esata cable into the drive
-Plug the other end of the esata cable into the computer
-The drive should be detected and mount after a few seconds 

Cheers!

---

### Post by xjgnsdof on 2009-06-04
Do you do this every time you want to mount your drive via eSATA or is it just a one-time thing?

---

### Post by sccolbert on 2009-06-04
well, it appears to have only worked that once. 

I haven't been able to get it to work since, even following the procedure I previously wrote. 

I may just RMA this enclosure and get a different one.

---

