---
title: "14.04.1"
date: 2015-02-15
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by Skaperen on 2015-02-15
i have downloaded the image file ready to [FONT=courier new]dd[/FONT] to an 8g USB memory stick.
i want to do a fresh install (not an upgrade)
does it need any change to work right on a **Kudu Pro**? e.g. drivers or such

```
forums@laptop2:~$ ls -l /home/share/ubuntu-14.04.1-desktop-amd64.iso
-r--r--r-- 2 phil phil 1028653056 Jul 22  2014 /home/share/ubuntu-14.04.1-desktop-amd64.iso
forums@laptop2:~$ md5sum /home/share/ubuntu-14.04.1-desktop-amd64.iso
119cb63b48c9a18f31f417f09655efbd  /home/share/ubuntu-14.04.1-desktop-amd64.iso
```

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-02-15
You can use ***dd*** or [mkusb]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb") (to make the dd method safer) with all current Ubuntu family iso files. You need no 'extras' to make a USB boot drive.

But what is a Kudo pro?

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2015-02-17
never heard of a Kudo pro ..i have 2 [Kud**u** pro]("https://system76.com/laptops/kudu") laptops from [system76]("https://system76.com/")

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2015-02-17
dd has worked for me. i even wrote my own tool.


my concern is where mkusb gets its data, which i got the impression was over the net.
will mkusb succeed if the net stays up only long enough for 700MB?
i have the image file now.
if it has all the driver my kudu pro laptops need then i am good to go
sure, i could just test it ... but it MAY have a different set of drivers than what gets installed (seen it happen)
so i wanted to confirm, first.

FYI, i made ISO images into hybrid images years ago, i made my own tool to do that back then.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-02-17
I've heard about System 76, but not Kudu (until now). It is nice with computers that are sold with linux :-)
[I][B]
mkusb[/B][/I] uses local files, that you have downloaded or received via torrent. So if you have an iso file or image file or compressed image file (img, img.gz, img.xz) you can use it with mkusb.

I don't know which special drivers are necessary for your computer. With Intel graphics and wifi it should work without any proprietary driver. The file you have is the standard Ubuntu iso file (without any special tweaks by System 76 according to the md5sum).

[Try it ***live*** before installing]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2230389").

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2015-02-17
this is why i asked in the system76 forum to see if they know if it should work or if not then where can i get a better image file

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2015-02-22
download 14.04.**2** now ... done

---

### Post by Elfy on 2015-02-22
might want to install the system76 driver after you clean installed - but that's not experience talking ;)

[http://knowledge76.com/index.php/Version_Upgrade](http://knowledge76.com/index.php/Version_Upgrade)

---

