---
title: "[11.04 Fresh Install] Wireless on Star1"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by WarLokk on 2011-05-01
Greetings folks.  I just went ahead and did a fresh install of 11.04 on my Starling1.  Everything seems to be up and running except the Wireless.  I went ahead and installed the Sys76 driver and did a restore.  Now the wireless light is active/on and I can detect the networks in my area (including my own.)  The only thing I notice is the wireless light flickers every now and again whereas it would stay steady in 10.04 and previous versions.

Problem being is that I can not connect to my network.  It prompts me for the access key and I input it correctly but it just will not connect.  

I ran into this same exact problem (complete with the odd wireless light flicker) when I tried to put Jolicloud on this and could not find any way around it.  I ended up putting 10.04 back on and the wireless worked without any issue after that.

Was hoping someone could point me in the right direction now that I am using a supported OS on my little Starling1 :D

--WarLokk

---

### Post by scarey9 on 2011-05-01
I am having the same problem on my PanP7. I had a fix for it on 10.10 but the file i edited does not seem to exist. To fix my issue on 10.10 i had to edit this.

/etc/modprobe.d/intel-5300-iwlagn-disable11n.conf

```
sudo gedit intel-5300-iwlagn-disable11n.conf
```

edit the only line from
```
options iwlagn 11n_disable=1
```
to
```
options iwlagn 11n_disable=0
```

the intel-5300-iwlagn-disable11n.conf does not exist anymore. So i am at a bit of a loss.

---

### Post by scarey9 on 2011-05-01
I got my wireless to work on an open wifi network. It will not work on any security enabled networks.

---

### Post by WarLokk on 2011-05-02
Yea I still haven't found anything that will allow it to connect.  Any ideas?  Especially since that file doesn't seem to exist any longer.

---

### Post by isantop on 2011-05-02
I think you two are dealing with two different issues, since you have different wireless cards.

Fro the OP, can you try turning the card off with the switch? Just slide it once to the left, release it and reboot. Then, re-enable it by doing the same thing, and see if that clears it up.

---

### Post by WarLokk on 2011-05-02
> **isantop said:**
> I think you two are dealing with two different issues, since you have different wireless cards.

Fro the OP, can you try turning the card off with the switch? Just slide it once to the left, release it and reboot. Then, re-enable it by doing the same thing, and see if that clears it up.

Tried the above and no change.  The wireless adapter is on and enabled as it sees the networks in my area and attempts to connect but will not connect to any secured network (tripled checked the access key is correct).  

We may have separate cards but the symptoms are very similar it would seem

---

### Post by WarLokk on 2011-05-02
Well I decided to connect via WICD and it connected.  After that I disconnected from my network and gave it try via the built in connector in the top right of the screen and it connected again.  I suppose all is well for now.  

Thanks everyone for the input

---

