---
title: "Disappointing hardware in Gazelle Professional laptop"
date: 2011-12-27
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by zelea2 on 2011-12-27
These are my complains about a system76 laptop which should be Linux friendly:

- buggy wireless chipset: it uses the RTL8188CE which has binary only drivers. When you first boot the laptop there is no wireless connection although iwconfig reports wlan0 as being associated with the access point and ifconfig shows the interface as being properly configured. Workaround is to disconnect and then reconnect the wireless by using the iwconfig essid command twice. Another possibility is to use a network manager like nm or wicd which do this reconnection for you. I'm using the firmware-realtek package version 0.34 (the latest). It seems there is a newer version of this driver on the Realtek site but it is not yet integrated in the mainstream kernel so I haven't tried it yet.

- always "on" eth0: Ethernet controller: JMicron Technology Corp. JMC250 PCI Express Gigabit; there is no event generated by plugging the ethernet cable and the eth0 device is always present. This prevents you to use something like "allow-hotplug eth0" in the /etc/network/interfaces file. Again a network manager helps but if you have both ethernet and wireless and you try to prioritize the wired connection then the network manager cycles between the two.

- unsupported fingerprint reader: it is a USB device 147e:1001 Upek - this device is not listed as being supported at [http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/fprint/libfprint](http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/fprint/libfprint) so fprint_demo will not see it. There is another software package based on qt4 called fingerprint-gui which claims supporting this device but although the current version 1.03 compiles and installs fine it will segfault when you try to start the fingerprint-gui application.

- camera works fine with the UVC driver but there is no LED to signal you when the camera is on

I was expecting better and open-source hardware from a laptop shipping with linux. I might understand nvidia with binary only drivers because there is no much choice there but for wireless and usb devices you have where to choose from.

---

### Post by isantop on 2011-12-28
Are you still using Ubuntu? We don't have many problems with the default chipset in Ubuntu, though other distributions may have issues. The ethernet should not require any configuration (and both work very well with Network Manager).

As for the camera, in Ubuntu the device menu (Gear in top right) will list a "Webcam" entry when it's turned on and not when it's off.

The fingerprint reader is a known issue, and we're working with Ubuntu Developers and the Developers of Fingerprint-GUI to get them working in time for 12.04.

---

### Post by zelea2 on 2012-01-11
> **isantop said:**
> Are you still using Ubuntu? We don't have many problems with the default chipset in Ubuntu, though other distributions may have issues. The ethernet should not require any configuration (and both work very well with Network Manager).


No I'm not using Ubuntu; I'm using Debian which Ubuntu is based on but that's not the point. And yes they do work with NM but as I stated in my previous post they have hardware problems. 

The wired ethernet problem is that you cannot tell when a cable is plugged in or not. Let's say you are on wireless and you want to plug a cable to increase your transfer bandwidth. You cannot do this automatically because the system won't sense the cable plug in. You have to manually stop the wireless interface. Because of this the ethernet and wireless cannot share the same IP address so if you are running servers on your laptop you have to try both IPs to connect.

The wireless hardware can not work without a network daemon (NM or wicd) because is has a buggy firmware. Try bringing the wireless up on ANY linux distribution and the chip will configure nicely; the interface will show up, the iwconfig will show as connected with encryption and channel and ESSID but it won't work. The only way to make it work is to do a AP reconnect. Of course if you use a network daemon this will be done for you but the bug is still there.

---

### Post by isantop on 2012-01-11
As we don't do any testing with Debian, we don't claim that it is Debian friendly. Our systems are engineered specifically to work with Ubuntu, and compatibility with other distros is as-is, and while using other distros won't void your warranty, we can't provide support for them due to the lack of testing.

In Ubuntu, with network manager, the wireless and wired network cards work as expected for general use. What is your specific specific use case? I may be able to look up a work around that provides the functionality you're looking for. 

Do remember that our laptops are generally designed for general purpose use, and that support for enterprise-level operations is better suited by a dedicated server in every case.

---

### Post by jschall1 on 2012-01-13
- Agree with you on the default wifi adapter... I don't know why it's being offered. The Intel Advanced-n 6230 one is great, connects really fast, works exceptionally well. The bluetooth on it is good once you get it to work (modprobe btusb reset=1), too. System76 will want like $36 to send you one, as it is an option that costs more than the realtek, but it is available online for like $25 (I believe I ordered mine from a place called macmall)
- I've never had problems with eth0, but I do use kubuntu so I have networkmanager.
- Fingerprint readers are stupid.
- Nitpicky.

---

### Post by isantop on 2012-01-13
> **jschall1 said:**
> - Agree with you on the default wifi adapter... I don't know why it's being offered. The Intel Advanced-n 6230 one is great, connects really fast, works exceptionally well. The bluetooth on it is good once you get it to work (modprobe btusb reset=1), too. System76 will want like $36 to send you one, as it is an option that costs more than the realtek, but it is available online for like $25 (I believe I ordered mine from a place called macmall)
- I've never had problems with eth0, but I do use kubuntu so I have networkmanager.
- Fingerprint readers are stupid.
- Nitpicky.

Our upgrade price for the Intel 6230 is usually $28 dollars. I do agree that it would probably perform better, particularly since it has much better support in the mainline Linux kernel. Ubuntu compiles in support for the Default card, but many distros so not.

---

### Post by gman16000 on 2012-01-15
I have the Gazelle Pro and I love it.  I agree with you on the RTL wireless card and can confirm that for my access points, the Intel options work much better. You'll be much happier with Intel.

System 76 was great at sending me a new card and it was very easy to install. Highly recommended. After using Ubuntu for 6 years, this is the best supported linux machine I've used.  

Good luck.

---

### Post by Nkosi on 2012-01-22
[QUOTE=gman16000;11612270

System 76 was great at sending me a new card and it was very easy to install. Highly recommended. After using Ubuntu for 6 years, this is the best supported linux machine I've used.  

Good luck.[/QUOTE]

Ditto on the great service responses to my wireless problems and othes for the last 6 years. Sticking with Ubuntu helped me steer clear of lots of problems.

---

### Post by jschall1 on 2012-01-22
> **Nkosi said:**
> Ditto on the great service responses to my wireless problems and othes for the last 6 years. Sticking with Ubuntu helped me steer clear of lots of problems.

Can't knock their service in general, but on this particular issue their *upgrade price* (which should be based on the cost difference between the stock wifi and the intel wifi) is higher than the price of the intel wifi. So when I first ran into the crappiness that is the stock wifi, I called them and they wanted (if I recall) $36ish to send me an intel wifi. So I looked it up for $20 in about 30 seconds and ordered it.

That said, I had a bad speaker and wanted them to just sent it to me instead of having to send the laptop to them and they did end up sending it to me. Not likely with any other company

---

### Post by zelea2 on 2012-06-24
Here [http://uglyduck.ath.cx/gazelle/gp-wifi.html](http://uglyduck.ath.cx/gazelle/gp-wifi.html) is a howto for changing the wireless card.

One more hardware quirk I've noticed is that there is no consumption current measurement for ACPI:
[FONT="Courier New"]
root@s76:~# acpi -V
Battery 0: Charging, 58%, [COLOR="Red"]rate information unavailable[/COLOR]
Battery 0: design capacity 5200 mAh, last full capacity 5092 mAh = 97%
Adapter 0: on-line
Thermal 0: ok, 36.0 degrees C
Thermal 0: trip point 0 switches to mode critical at temperature 154.0 degrees C
Cooling 0: LCD 0 of 7
root@s76:~# cat /sys/class/power_supply/BAT0/model_name
X51
root@s76:~# cat /sys/class/power_supply/BAT0/manufacturer
Clevo CO.
[/FONT]
The battery charge is estimated only from its voltage which is not as precise as a charge measure. The drawback is that some window managers will not be able to show or alarm on your battery state.

I don't want to sound to negative about this laptop. It is a great machine with powerful hardware but a few minor hardware changes would have been beneficial. On the bright side all pm modes including the mixed pm-suspend-hybrid mode work flawlessly. For fingerprint authentication support you can download the software from here [http://www.n-view.net/Appliance/fingerprint/index.php](http://www.n-view.net/Appliance/fingerprint/index.php) and compile it yourself. I have tested it on debian and now I have fingerprint authentication for both lightdm and sudo.

---

