---
title: "Daru2 + 11.04 + Unity = Flakiness"
date: 2011-06-21
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by imhavoc on 2011-06-21
[long story snipped]

So, I installed Ubuntu 11.04 with the Unity desktop on the old Darter Ultra 2.

About 60% of the time the screen saver (blank) launches, it locks up the desktops (not the computer). I can switch to a terminal and either kill something to force the computer to go back to the GDM login screen, or (most recently) kill the screen saver and get my computer back.

Thoughts?

I'm going to deactivate the screen saver for now and see what happens.

---

### Post by jdb on 2011-06-21
> **imhavoc said:**
> [long story snipped]

So, I installed Ubuntu 11.04 with the Unity desktop on the old Darter Ultra 2.

About 60% of the time the screen saver (blank) launches, it locks up the desktops (not the computer). I can switch to a terminal and either kill something to force the computer to go back to the GDM login screen, or (most recently) kill the screen saver and get my computer back.

Thoughts?

I'm going to deactivate the screen saver for now and see what happens.

I've left my Daru2 on Lucid 10.04 LTS so I can't say if mine acts the same.
I have tried Unity on some other computers & just can't warm up to it.
I think Gnome is probably going in the same direction.
Natty 11.04 Xubuntu (xfce4) is a very good desktop.
It's light but still has a polished feel.

jdb

---

### Post by imhavoc on 2011-06-21
Hey, jdb! I'm glad you're still around.

I'm installing xcfe4. I considered switching before. If these lockups don't stop, I'll switch.

yay.

---

### Post by imhavoc on 2011-06-25
FYI, it seems that the power management in 11.04 is problematic for the Daru2. As long as I keep power management (for the display) turned off, I don't have the problems.

Maybe it's time to start saving for a new machine? ;)

---

### Post by jdb on 2011-06-25
> **imhavoc said:**
> FYI, it seems that the power management in 11.04 is problematic for the Daru2. As long as I keep power management (for the display) turned off, I don't have the problems.

Maybe it's time to start saving for a new machine? ;)

Yeah, our Daru2s are getting a little long in tooth, but it's still a good little laptop to take on trips.

I've got a Color Nook I put CyanogenMod-7 on & it makes a great Android machine for carrying around.

I hope System76 branches into Android one of these days.

jdb

---

### Post by imhavoc on 2011-07-13
It's not actually "solved" per se, but I did kludge the system by removing all of the screen savers and power managers that weren't buried beneath parts that I needed.

FYI: I had to do it "by hand" at the command line with apt-get, so if you're not handy with apt-get, you may struggle. There was no way to achieve this through Ubuntu's GUI package manager -- that I could find.

---

