---
title: "letters too small in my Serval"
date: 2009-07-21
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by pkhetan on 2009-07-21
Hi,

I have a Serval 1920x1200 with Quadro FX2700M.

When i install the proprietary driver to take the advantage of the 3D effects, every thing become too small, i cant read. I tried to change the display resolution, but i don't have a lot of choices, either too small or too big there is a gap in between, and not all the proposed resolutions are 16:10 like my Serval screen.

Do you know a way to make the Ubuntu interface bigger without changing the display resolution, so i can, at the same time, take advantage of the high resolution of my laptop and also read what is written in the screen?

Thank you for your help.

---

### Post by miniyak on 2009-07-21
system >preferences >appearance >font >details >resolution

you can also overide text size for webpages in firefox preferences

---

### Post by pkhetan on 2009-07-23
Well, the problem with that methode is that only the fonts are modified, and that leads to un-match between the fonts and the windows.
Does any other methode exist that magnify the Ubuntu interface as a whole ?
If changing the display resolution is the only way, how could i costumize the resolution ?

Thanks

---

### Post by wrender on 2009-07-23
Not sure about ubuntu.... but kubuntu 9.04 adapted to the resolution of the screen beautifully and has a built in magnifier with compositing enabled.

---

### Post by miniyak on 2009-07-23
changing to a different theme with larger print whould work but it seem that the only one there is the high contrast blue. I am using the smaller version and like it but thats a matter of preference.

i havent used it but gnome-look.org may help you find a theme that will work better then the included ones

---

### Post by pkhetan on 2009-07-24
And does any one know how i can customize the resolution ?
I have 1280x1024 n the NVIDIA X Server Setting, but i want 1280x800 ! (my screen is 16:10)

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-07-24
You *should* be able to get 1280x800, as it is a 16:10 ratio as well. Try turning off your desktop effects (System > Prefs > Appearance > Visual Effects None) and then restart your machine. Is it offered now?

If not, you may have to tweak the xorg.conf to get it.

---

### Post by pkhetan on 2009-07-24
I turned off the visual effects and restarted my computer, the resolution was reinitialized at 1920x1200, I opened the NVIDIA Settings, but still there is no 1280x800 option. I have these options : 
1920x1200
1920x1080
1680x1050
1600x1024
1400x1050
**1280x1024**
960x540
840x525
800x512
700x525
640x512

Note the gap between the 1024 & 540 in the vertical composent of the resolution !!

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-07-24
Please post the output of...

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

We'll see if we can manually add the resolution.

---

### Post by PatrickVogeli on 2009-07-24
I just wanted to give my 2cents into this issue.

I'd rather adjust the text dpi than the resolution. Even if you switch to another 16:10 resolution, you'll get a quite noticiable quality loss in the picture displayed. You've paid for the best screen and you'll get a very poor image out of it. Don't think the image will look as good as other 15,4 1280x800 laptops, since it won't, you'll loose definition and the image may look a bit blurry. Keep that in mind. TFT/LDC/Plasma panels don't like working in different resolutions from the native one.

---

### Post by pkhetan on 2009-07-25
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection



> **PatrickVogeli said:**
> I just wanted to give my 2cents into this issue.

I'd rather adjust the text dpi than the resolution. Even if you switch to another 16:10 resolution, you'll get a quite noticiable quality loss in the picture displayed. You've paid for the best screen and you'll get a very poor image out of it. Don't think the image will look as good as other 15,4 1280x800 laptops, since it won't, you'll loose definition and the image may look a bit blurry. Keep that in mind. TFT/LDC/Plasma panels don't like working in different resolutions from the native one.

I tried this but the problem is that i got a good text size but beside a too small symbols (like firefox, evolution & volume control symbols) & in some applications, the windows were too small for the text written inside and some of these windows are not size adjustable as the most of notifications & warnings windows; so i can't read the whole messages, it's cut. I know that the best resolution is keeping the 1920x1200 and magnifying the whole X server, but how ?

---

### Post by Sean-Michael on 2009-07-25
I've got the same problem/issue going on my Serval, I'm sure thomas remembers me calling.

The biggest thing to help me so far was adjusting the systems font setting but it did not help firefox at all!  For firefox I tried the nosquint addon but it makes the images look like crap when enlarged as well.

It would be very helpful to be able to enlarge the whole screen while not loosing quality... like mentioned we payed for the high res screen. :)

I really have nothing useful to add but that another person is experiencing the same trouble, let me know if I can assist in any way I'll be watching the thread.

Sean-Michael.

---

### Post by miniyak on 2009-07-25
i haven't used no-squint but i do know that the fonts can be changed in firefox so long as you deselect "allow pages to choose their own fonts" in the advanced section of fonts and colors under content in the preferences

---

### Post by Sean-Michael on 2009-07-25
> **miniyak said:**
> i haven't used no-squint but i do know that the fonts can be changed in firefox so long as you deselect "allow pages to choose their own fonts" in the advanced section of fonts and colors under content in the preferences

Yes this is true and works but... in most cases I find it breaks the page.

I use no squint to enlarge pages as a whole or when reading I use the "ctrl + +" shortcut to make things easier on the eyes.

I have similar troubles when using openoffice as well and use the zoom function there.

---

### Post by pkhetan on 2009-07-29
> **thomasaaron said:**
> Please post the output of...

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

We'll see if we can manually add the resolution.

So can you extract something from my xorg.conf ?
Thanks

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-07-29
pkhetan,

First, back up your xorg.conf by running this command...

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```

Second, open your xorg.conf for editing...

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Third, make the "Screen" section of your xorg.conf look like this...

```
Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
    Viewport  0 0
    Depth     24
    Modes     "1280x800"
EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Save the file, and then restart your computer.

Then see if you have a 1280x800 resolution available.

There is a chance this will utterly hose your display. If it does, you will need to boot into recovery mode, into a root shell prompt...

> To boot into recovery mode, restart your machine and press the "Esc" key when you see the grub countdown (i.e. grub...3...2...1...). This will bring you to a list of available kernels. Highlight the first line that has "Recovery Mode" in its title and press enter. You will then be presented with a GUI that offers you a list of options. Select "Drop to Root Shell Prompt."

...and run these two commands...

```
cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
reboot -h now
```

---

### Post by pkhetan on 2009-07-31
Hi Thomas,

I have modified the xorg.conf i you described above, but this didn't change anything i still can't do 1280x800

I noted that in the xorg.conf file it's written :

# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.

I don't know if this is something related to our subject

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-07-31
It is related. I was just taking a chance that it was still possible.

I've been playing around with our shop Serval this morning trying to get 1280x800. So far, though, no dice. The driver may not be capable of it. Tried going down a driver version. That didn't help either.

---

