---
title: "12.04 Upgrade on panp5 loses wireless"
date: 2012-06-08
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by dct35115 on 2012-06-08
Tried upgrading from 11.10 to 12.04 today on my panp5 using the xubuntu desktop.  Upgrades from 9.04 until now have gone flawlessly.  Today I got a message early in the upgrade process that xscreen needed to be deactivated.  I clicked on task manager but never got a window so I decided to just move forward and keep an eye on it.  Of course I stepped away and the screen locked and I was not able to enter a password to unlock the screen.  So I waited a couple of hours to allow everything to finish and manually powered off the laptop.  

Upon boot I got the Xubuntu 12.04 splash and made it into the desktop.  Everything seemed to be in order but I didn't get the message that I was connected to the network NOR did I get a list of available networks NOR did I have the little icon/applet in the upper right to click on to see networks.  Its as if 12.04 didn't recognize my wireless card anymore.  That has never happened.

So I logged off Xubuntu and logged into the Ubuntu session and ran into the same thing.  I looked and looked for something in the menus to add the icon/applet for networks but couldn't find anything.

I don't know if my upgrade issue above somehow kept the networking from being configured during the upgrade?

I booted a LiveCD of Mint 13 and it immediately listed the available networks and I successfully connected and surfed the net.  So the wireless card works.

Any help on how to get the 'buntu systems to recognize the wireless card will be most appreciated.  

I think I'll try doing a wired connection to see if it works.

---

### Post by dct35115 on 2012-06-08
Follow Up: Tried a wired connection to the router from the laptop and that was not recognized either.

---

### Post by dct35115 on 2012-06-09
Well I got wireless working again but not completely sure which action fixed it.

I went in Update Manager and got an error message saying I could do a partial upgrade [which I mistakenly thought was talking about the distro, not the packages].  I took that option [and read later that is a bad idea...so why is it an option?] and it worked along for a while and then failed.  I think it said it was out of space even though the 250GB HDD is less that half full.

So I searched in the forums for other stuff and tried apt-get upgrade and apt-get dist-upgrade.

I rebooted into LiveCD of Mint 13 again so I could look at gparted to address the space issue.

Then when I booted back into Xubuntu, all of a sudden wireless is working.  So maybe the "partial upgrade" did enough to fix my problem before it failed?

Anyway, I'm marking this thread complete.

---

### Post by isantop on 2012-06-11
Very strange. It sounds like it got fixed though, so you are probably good at this point. 

As for the "Partial Upgrade" option, there are times when it is actually needed, particularly during Beta testing on a new release. And since Ubuntu is about providing freedom, it would be seen as a restriction. That said, it would be nice to have some logic code to figure out if it is [i]actually[]/i] needed.

---

