---
title: "HDD acoustics management"
date: 2009-09-07
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by raynevandunem on 2009-09-07
Hi, do system76's products have native support for HDD acoustics management, in which you can change the speed (and noise) of your hard drive disc using hdparm.conf?

Personally, I've had the issue of trying to configure this on other laptops with Ubuntu self-installed. However, I think it only works with a certain type of hardware standard, which is why I haven't been successful with quieting the hard drive by setting it to the lowest spinning speed possible.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-09-08
None of our products have native support for this. And since we switch hard drive brands as needed, it would be impossible to guarantee that the drive you received would support it.

---

### Post by raynevandunem on 2009-09-10
OK, can system76's desktops and laptops be shipped with a default for slower, quieter hard drive speeds?

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-09-10
Not really.

However, I've not heard many complaints about hard drive noise. So, it doesn't seem to be an issue.

---

### Post by echo314 on 2009-09-10
If its just the internal noise generated by the drive thats bugging you, drives are pretty cheap these days, offering way more storage then the average user needs. You may consider replacing it with the drive of your choice. 

If its external noise (loose screws / rattling) you can try all sorts of stuff to cushion it, dampening the sound. If you have not already, quickly check to make sure screws are in tightly, etc.

---

