---
title: "10.04 no webcam"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by itcave on 2010-05-03
Just installed 10.04 32bit on my pan7 and the web cam is not working. when I open the cheese app, it says no hardware found.

Does the system76 driver do anything for Pan7 or 10.04?  If so, maybe this page should be updated.    
[http://knowledge76.com/index.php/System76_Driver](http://knowledge76.com/index.php/System76_Driver)

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2010-05-03
Did you press Fn-F10 to turn on the webcam? (Sorry, I hate asking people that question.) :popcorn:

---

### Post by itcave on 2010-05-03
Wow.... haha.  Thanks that was exactly the problem.

In my defense I've had the laptop for less then a week.  :)

---

### Post by effn10 on 2010-06-08
Hello everybody, I do not have the Fn+F10 trick on my old DELL Latitude D610, which had a re-birth with the brand-new ubuntu 10.04.
And the webcam video does not work.
I still have the audio from it (as Sound panel tells me in the "preferences" menu), but the video under Skype is a big bug.
The webcam is a Logitech Notebook Deluxe, which is not supported any more on Logitech website.
If anyone can help ! or redirect me...
cheers,
F

---

### Post by gamerchick02 on 2010-06-08
> **effn10 said:**
> Hello everybody, I do not have the Fn+F10 trick on my old DELL Latitude D610, which had a re-birth with the brand-new ubuntu 10.04.
And the webcam video does not work.
I still have the audio from it (as Sound panel tells me in the "preferences" menu), but the video under Skype is a big bug.
The webcam is a Logitech Notebook Deluxe, which is not supported any more on Logitech website.
If anyone can help ! or redirect me...
cheers,
F

You're in the wrong thread/forum section.  This is for owners and users of System76 computers.  Please redirect your question in a new thread under "Hardware & Laptops".

Can you try different inputs/outputs in Skype and get it to work?  Can you use Cheese or something to see if you have access to the camera?

Amy

---

### Post by nobodysbusiness on 2010-06-09
Exact same thing tripped me up. But now I've tested the webcam with Skype and it works great (chatting with a Mac user BTW). This is working just in time to save me from a long business trip. Thanks, Sys76!

---

### Post by effn10 on 2010-06-13
> **gamerchick02 said:**
> You're in the wrong thread/forum section.  This is for owners and users of System76 computers.  Please redirect your question in a new thread under "Hardware & Laptops".

Hello Amy, thanks a lot for the reply. I posted a new thread under [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9456099#post9456099](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9456099#post9456099)


> **gamerchick02 said:**
> Can you try different inputs/outputs in Skype and get it to work?  Can  you use Cheese or something to see if you have access to the camera?

I do not know how to change the input outputs in skype. I did it on VLC, and found that X11 video output made it work.

I installed Cheese, but it does not work either, please see my other post.

I guess we can now go on with this discussion on the other post.

cheers
F

---

