---
title: "32 Bit"
date: 2009-08-06
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by Lucius Octavion on 2009-08-06
Hello everyone,  I'm going to be going to university in a few weeks, and I'm thinking of getting a Gazelle Ultra soon. One concern I had was that some applications that I use aren't exactly supported yet under 64 bit Linux. 
 
 I am going to be a new Linux user and I'm a pretty fast learner with this stuff, but there isn't really much of a reason for me to use the 64 bit OS at this point in time.  Is it possible for me to have the computer pre-loaded with the 32 bit Ubuntu instead of the 64 bit version? I can always upgrade it to 64 bit once my apps are compiled to run under 64 bit Linux in the future.

---

### Post by fennec_fox on 2009-08-06
I assume you are looking at the netbook remix. I pretty sure the remix is 32 bit. You should be fine there. 

The desktop version is offered in both 32 and 64 bit. You can choose. 

Let me know if that was what you were looking for or if you have any other questions.

---

### Post by Lucius Octavion on 2009-08-06
Actually... I do a lot of heavy modding of DooM through Skulltag (a zdoom based engine). Development for 64 bit is underway at this time. It shouldn't be that much of a problem to just use 64 bit, but I was just asking.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2009-08-07
> **Lucius Octavion said:**
> Actually... I do a lot of heavy modding of DooM through Skulltag (a zdoom based engine). Development for 64 bit is underway at this time. It shouldn't be that much of a problem to just use 64 bit, but I was just asking.

32-bit Linux apps work without any trouble under 64-bit Linux. There is really no reason not to use 64-bit. 32-bit windows apps run under wine just the same on 32 or 64-bit Linux. The only issue one might have with 64-bit Linux is a driver issue, but system76 takes care of those.

I am using 64-bit Ubuntu and I have been doing heavy modding on the 32-bit windows game Civilization IV. No problem at all.

---

### Post by fennec_fox on 2009-08-07
Miro is right. 64 bit is the way to go. You can run all of the 32bit apps in it if there isn't a 64 bit version. You can choose 32bit or 64bit when you install. I think the Gazelle comes with 64 bit by default which will be fine. Like miro said, it'll run all the 32bit apps.

For some reason I was thinking the gazelle ultra was a netbook though so I was thinking netbook remix when I posted the first time.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-08-07
A couple of years ago, 64-bit was pretty buggy. We found that, as of about Gutsy Gibbon (8.10?), 64-bit really began solidifying. 

I still get the occasional phone call from someone who is still using 32-bit because they've heard that 64-bit used to be substandard and are under the impression that it still is.

AU CONTRAIRE MON FRAIRE! IT IS A BRIGHT NEW WORLD!

---

