---
title: "External USB Hard Drive"
date: 2009-07-17
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by jlkill3r on 2009-07-17
I would like to thank Thomasaaron on my last post, I did eventually get the card reader to detect my xd but sadly never mounted. I have yet another problem and it is with my hard drive that came with the starling netbook. It can read dvd's and plays movies with vlc but for some reason it no longer shows the contents of the dvd drive, intead, it displays a mount error. I've looked in the media and noticed that the fstab is trying to mount cdrom1 which does not exist (I only have cdrom, cdrom0, and cdrom01) and I'm guessing that I need to change the location to one of these but I'm having difficulties doing so and I have attempted various other ways such as trying to reconstruct the NTFS.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-07-17
I'm sorry, but I'm a little confused on this one...

...reconstructing NTFS? On what?

And you only have *one* dvd player connected, right?

Please include the complete error you get. Also include the output of...

cat /etc/fstab

---

### Post by ftgibson on 2009-07-17
MountManager 0.2.6 in Synaptic package manager worked for me.

Amie

---

### Post by jlkill3r on 2009-07-17
[COLOR="Black"][COLOR="Black"][COLOR="Black"]As always, thank you Aaron for the quick response and as for MountManager, I'll consider that if I am unable to fix this issue. I do only have 1 dvd player connected and here is the error report you requested:

[COLOR="Black"][B][COLOR="Blue"]Cannot mount volume.

Unable to mount the volume 'NEW'.

Details
mount: mount point /media/cdrom1 does not exist[/COLOR][/B][/COLOR]

[COLOR="Black"]Below is my FSTAB log:[/COLOR]

[B]# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

[COLOR="Black"][B][COLOR="Blue"]proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=9fdd20be-ce71-4f01-9861-14fcfe916c81 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=26256b12-dba5-4dca-bc14-fccbe949ab43 /home ext3 relatime 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=2ab6ae2e-efb8-429a-8c4a-ac86d54568d8 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0[/COLOR][/B][/COLOR][/COLOR][/B][/COLOR][/COLOR]

---

### Post by SiberianBear on 2009-07-17
> **jlkill3r said:**
> [COLOR=Black][COLOR=Black][COLOR=Black][COLOR=Black][B][COLOR=Blue]

Details
mount: mount point /media/cdrom1 does not exist[/COLOR][/B][/COLOR]
[/COLOR][/COLOR][/COLOR][COLOR=Black][COLOR=Black][COLOR=Black]
There's your problem right there. 

Create /media/cdrom1 and make sure it has the correct permissions  so you can actually 
mount/unmount it as a regular user.[/COLOR][/COLOR][/COLOR]

---

### Post by jlkill3r on 2009-07-17
Yes, both methods worked, I created it as cdrom1 then I gave that MountManager a try, it made changing the roms so much easier, thank you for all the help.

---

### Post by ftgibson on 2009-07-17
Hi jlkill3r,
  I am glad you found the MountManager helpful, it has absolutely saved my bacon as far as myself not messing anything else up while trying to get the system to recognize my external drives etc.

Amie

---

