---
title: "11.10 Unity config"
date: 2011-10-26
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by reid_rsv869 on 2011-10-26
Hi group -

This is not a matter of National Security but I'll gripe anyway....

I like the 11.10 Unity changes but I am confused (maybe disappointed) about how difficult it is (for me) to change desktop/theme settings in the new unity release.  In earlier releases you had a lot of nice granular control of all parts of the look-and-feel of the desktop.  Now I don't have a clue.

For example, I use the Radiance theme but hate the default orange button color.  No idea how to change it. Maybe it happens in Gnome Tweaks but it seems gear toward the Gnome Shell, not Unity (I think). Or it could be the Appearance tool, but I don't see the needed tools there either.

Thoughts?

rsv869

---

### Post by isantop on 2011-10-26
I can't say I'm with you on the color, as I see it as a part of Ubuntu's identity. However, you may be able to change it with Ubuntu Tweak. It's a tool that's specifically designed to edit Ubuntu settings.

Other than that, you may have to dig through gconf, but that would be more of a last resort.

---

### Post by reid_rsv869 on 2011-10-26
Ian -

Don't know of Ubuntu Tweak.  I have Gnome Tweak loaded.  If that's what you mean, it doesn't appear to have the functionality that's needed.

Reid

---

### Post by isantop on 2011-10-27
Actually, Ubuntu Tweak is an Ubuntu-specific tool that predates Gnome-tweak-tool. You can learn about it and how to install it at this website:

[http://ubuntu-tweak.com](http://ubuntu-tweak.com)

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2011-10-27
> **reid_rsv869 said:**
> ... Now I don't have a clue.
... the default orange button color.  No idea how to change it... but I don't see the needed tools there either.
...

A few of us have posted about changing the colors of various components by editing various text files (after backing up the originals). I agree that doing so was much easier in 11.04.
Files:
/usr/share/themes/Ambiance/gtk-2.0/gtkrc
/usr/share/themes/Ambiance/gtk-3.0/settings.ini
/usr/share/themes/Ambiance/gtk-3.0/gtk.css
/usr/share/themes/Ambiance/gtk-3.0/gtk-widgets.css
/usr/share/themes/Ambiance/metacity-1/metacity-theme-1.xml

Ambiance is the theme I use and that's why it figures in the path.

---

