---
title: "18.04 upgrade disables keyboard backlight on bonobo6"
date: 2018-08-17
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by sllimr7139 on 2018-08-17
Hi all,

So I did the 18.04 upgrade last night from 16.04. Once 18.04 was installed and my laptop rebooted, my keyboard backlight shut off.

I can't get it to come back on.  I found a reference in the Ubuntu support channels that this is happening on other (Dell) laptops as well.

I know the backlight still works because I can see it on before the OS completes the boot up sequence and then it gets shut off again.

Doing a little more research I found out that there maybe a couple of different reasons for this to be happening, and I'm hoping that someone can give me a little more clarification on what I need to do to correct it.

So first off I found reference to the following:  ```
/sys/devices/platform/system76/leds/system76\:\:kbd_backlight/
``` 
and a number of files in that folder that controls things related to the keyboard backlight. Unfortunately I don't know and can't find what valid values are for those files and what I would need to change to make the backlight come back on.

Second reference, related to the first, is the** system76_dkms** driver.  In the git source repo, it directly makes mention of configuring the keyboard leds.  In actual fact the last check-in comment states "Set keyboard brightness to off by default", except I can't get it to even turn back on now.

Does anyone have a suggestion as to how I can get my keyboard backlighting to come back on?

thanks in advance,
Ryan.

---

