---
title: "7.10 upgrade failure"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by ewg on 2007-10-24
Using System 76 Sable with Ubuntu
Upgrade to 7.04 went fine with no glitches
I have always performed updates as soon as they were available. 
Only 3rd party software I use is Moneydance

Trying to upgrade 7.04 to 7.10 from update manager I immediately started getting failure box messages, many, many, of them but the upgrade continued. Most of the early ones noted bad *lib* packages. To be honest i stopped trying to note them since there were so many. Eventually the upgrade was aborted and it went to terminal mode. Terminal presented some choices of which I always selected default. I now have what seems to be 7.10 on my machine, with most things working. BUT>>>I can't access the System 76 driver ( I get an unsupported message) and I have no control of my printer (all the choice tabs are grayed out). There are updates available today but I'm reluctant to get them.

Any suggestions?

Thank you.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2007-10-24
Make sure you have a wired connection to the internet and boot into 7.10.
Go to a terminal and enter these commands:

sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get --assume-yes dist-upgrade

With a little luck, this will add any updates that got hosed while upgrading.

In the meantime, you can get back to your previous kernel (and thus your programs/printer) by pressing the Esc key when you see the "Grub...3...2...1" screen. Then select the 2.6.20-16 kernel and press enter.

---

### Post by ewg on 2007-10-24
Thanks for your reply. You say make sure I have a "wired connection". I can't use my wireless as I usually do?

---

### Post by palintheus on 2007-10-24
> **ewg said:**
> Thanks for your reply. You say make sure I have a "wired connection". I can't use my wireless as I usually do?

It is more likely to cause problems, its usually recommended that major updates be done over a wired connection.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2007-10-24
You can try it.

When you run the update and dist-upgrade commands, if you get a bunch of cannot-resolve errors, then you should reboot with a wired connection.

If you still get a bunch of those errors, run...

sudo ifdown eth0 
sudo ifup eth0

...before running the update/upgrade commands.

---

### Post by ewg on 2007-10-24
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get --assume-yes dist-upgrade

With a little luck, this will add any updates that got hosed while upgrading.
-----------------------------------

OK, I did this and it went well, but I'm still blocked out from the System 76 driver. I get an "unsupported"  dialog box.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2007-10-24
Oh! You mean it says your system is unsupported? 

Check out the version of the driver that your are using. Open it up and click the ABOUT button.

If you are not using the 2.1.1 version, run these commands:
wget [http://planet76.com/repositories/system76-driver-2.1.1.deb](http://planet76.com/repositories/system76-driver-2.1.1.deb)
sudo dpkg -i system76-driver-2.1.1.deb

Then re-run the driver.

---

### Post by ewg on 2007-10-24
Since the Sys 76 driver would not open I could not determine the version. I ran the commands anyway and it did the job. Thank you.

---

