---
title: "12.04 StarCraft II / Wine graphics problems on Pangolin Performance"
date: 2012-12-15
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by jcllings on 2012-12-15
So I have it installed. For the record the easiest way to install it is  to avoid using the DVD all together. Go straight for the download  version and run it with:

wine StarCraft-II-Setup-enUS.exe

This will save you a lot of headaches. If you get errors, I may have omitted a step or two but you should be able to find the same info I did to fix them on the web. ...now on to my specific issues.

So  I fire it up and the UI is very nice, very crisp... except that there  are no backgrounds.  Once you get into the game everything is  monochrome.  I also note that portraits are missing. The mouse-over map views don't show up either.  Does anyone know what this is and if there is a work-around, fix, etc.? If I cat get StarCraft II running I can ditch my old department store Windows piece of junk permanently.  This is the only game addiction I've allowed myself in years.

---

### Post by jaylittle on 2012-12-16
Honestly - this really isn't the place for this.  If you want to get down and dirty with Wine yourself try reading [the WineHQ page/comments on the game.](http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=20882).  Barring that I would actually suggest downloading and installing [PlayOnLinux](http://www.playonlinux.com/en/). That is what I use to manage all of my wine configurations (and yes some games will require different configurations of wine than other games do).  Sadly Starcraft II isn't amongst the games I care about so I can't be of direct help.  Chances are though that PlayOnLinux has an easy install option for StarCraft II which will setup a segregated wine environment and make all the tweaks you require to run the game.  So I would highly recommend trying it.

---

### Post by tvrusso on 2012-12-20
Jay Little is right that you should look at the Wine HQ page for this, but I can go farther, as I run Starcraft 2 on my Gazelle Pro.  There are some issues with running Starcraft 2 on intel graphics cards.

Specifically, you should scroll down the Wine app db page [http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=20882]("http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=20882") for the comment titled "intel hd graphics (core i3 arrandele) and performance", and my two comments underneath that heading.  The comments apply not only to the i3, but also to the intel hd graphics in the System 76 machines.

There are some specific settings you need to make to get the graphics in SC2 to work properly, including enabling s3tc texture compression, and some tweaks to the Wine registry.  Doing the texture compression thing requires installing an additional package for the s3tc libraries, and installing "driconf" to enable the setting.

Without this stuff, you'll get unusable graphics in play.  With these tweaks, it is perfectly playable, though there are frequently some distracting rendering errors (flashing triangles, flickering screens).

---

### Post by jcllings on 2013-01-06
Awesome!! This seems to have done the trick! :-) :-)

> **tvrusso said:**
> Jay Little is right that you should look at the Wine HQ page for this, but I can go farther, as I run Starcraft 2 on my Gazelle Pro.  
...
errors (flashing triangles, flickering screens).

---

### Post by tvrusso on 2013-01-16
> **jcllings said:**
> Awesome!! This seems to have done the trick! :-) :-)

Glad to help!

---

