---
title: "trackpad responsiveness gazv5"
date: 2009-09-16
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by happyisland on 2009-09-16
I am the proud and happy owner of a gazv5 laptop, which continues to perform great. My problem here is undoubtedly one that rises out of human error - possibly my tinkering with the xorg file:


Recently the trackpad started working less responsively. It still works, but it's a mild pain in the butt to use, especially for short, fine movements. 

Since I'm not exactly sure what all I did to make the thing stop working correctly I'm not exactly sure how to fix it. Is there an easy way to revert the trackpad's settings to the way they should be?

thanks in advance for the help.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-09-16
What did you do to your xorg.conf? Please post it here and I'll have a look.

Have you played with the settings at System > Preferences > Mouse?

Could you also please describe what you mean by decreased responsiveness? What is it doing (or not doing)?

---

### Post by happyisland on 2009-09-16
the xorg is below.

I'm not sure what I did to it - this is actually my wife's laptop so I don't use it very often. 

The trackpad performance problem is especially evident when trying to move the cursor short precise distances. It works, but it's just not smooth like it was.


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	1280 1824
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-09-17
Thanks. 

That xorg.conf is good to go. No problems there.

Did you try the settings at System > Prefs > Mouse?

---

### Post by happyisland on 2009-09-17
yep - the mouse settings don't change the way the trackpad works. Any other ideas of things I could try?

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-09-17
Hmmm... The settings under the "General" tab *should* have some effect on your mouse.

I've done some googling on it, and I'm not seeing anything pertinent. However, since we're not seeing this issue across the board, it's looking like it may be just specific to your machine.

You might want to try booting from a live CD to see if the problem occurs there as well.

---

### Post by happyisland on 2009-09-17
> **thomasaaron said:**
> 
You might want to try booting from a live CD to see if the problem occurs there as well.

Why didn't I think of that? I guess that's why you're paid the big bucks. Now if I can just get my wife to loan me her laptop for a few minutes...

---

