---
title: "10.10 Update Computer won't boot"
date: 2010-10-13
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by protoslacker on 2010-10-13
Meerkat Ion NetTop

I'm a No0b idiot!

Caught up in the newness of using Ubuntu I decided to update from 10.04 to 10.10 with a Network update.  During the installation a dialog box in re GRUB did pop up.  I'm not certain exactly  what I did but fear I did per this:

"2. When prompted to configure the grub-pc package, select to install grub to /dev/sda (not /dev/sda1) only. Do not install to any other device. It may suggest installing to every device, but **this will break your system**"

The system worked properly when first running, and booted just fine after shut down.  However this morning when I turned the computer on all I get is a black screen with blinking cursor.

I have an image on a thumb drive.  When I accessed by BIOS to boot from it, I see that both the hard drive and the thumb drive are disabled.

How should I proceed?  Should I ship my computer back to System76, or are there steps I should try before that?

---

### Post by protoslacker on 2010-10-14
Hi, 

What I discovered is that even though in the BIOS menu my USB drive was said to be disabled, I went ahead and tried to boot from it.  It turned out that I could.  

Quite aware of my novice ignorance--I was too cocky to ignore the good advice to wait for a while before trying to update to 10.10--I decided to go ahead and do a clean install of the 10.10. I figured that's what eventually would have to happen in the long run anyway, so worth a try.

Everything seems to work so far, I've restarted a couple of time with updates.

I suppose eventually I'll have some experience and learn from mistakes.  

Should I mark this thread as solved?

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2010-10-14
OK, glad you're up and running. Let us know if you need further assistance.

---

### Post by isantop on 2010-10-14
+1, and marking as solved would be great! Good to hear you're back up and running.

---

### Post by protoslacker on 2010-10-14
Thanks thomasaaron and isantop for responding.  I have marked the thread solved.

Probably not exactly kosher for the board, just wanted to add a bit of meta, or bits to the things learned column.

Obviously there are a millions of reasons people decide to use FOSS.  In my case it's primarily about ethics and values.  That's really more practical than it sounds.  There are projects I'm involved in where open source is currently not the norm, but would solve a bunch of problems if it were.  One of the barriers to the change is that basically people just need the tools to work and aren't interested in the hows.  That's me too, so part of my motivation for using Ubuntu is to show that open source can work by my using it.

In some ways the community of techno-adepts is a real culture shock for me.  But community reflects my values so it's not too shocking.

Martin Owen's [upgrade]("http://doctormo.org/2010/10/14/maverick-upgrade-sigh") on his System76 laptop didn't go too well either.  I'm grasping at straws about what went wrong in my case.  Since a number of issues around Nvidia cards have been observed, it could be that was involved with my upgrade too.  

One reason I was upgrading was for the new fonts:P  Perhaps I'm wrong, but I don't think I got them when my computer was running after the upgrade.  I've seen some complaints about them along the lines of trying to make everything accessible in Ubuntu.  Now that I've got them, I really like them a lot.  Yes, I don't see as well as I used to.

I understand how newbies like me often seem a drag on the community.  I'm really appreciative of all the work that goes into making Ubuntu Linux real.  The new fonts are a good example why. It's quite remarkable that folks perfectly content with fonts hard for old folks like me would work to make my computer experience better for folks like me.  Thanks!

I do hope to be able to contribute in some positive way to the Ubuntu community.

---

