---
title: "Network Device Numbers"
date: 2007-12-21
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by jdmelton on 2007-12-21
Hello,

I have a Serval Performance built under order #5348.

It has Ubuntu 7.10, with no updates installed yet.
My first boot was today, fresh out of the box.

I am troubled by the listing of ethernet devices and have some questions.

The wireless device is listed as eth6 and the ethernet device is listed as eth5.

After some searching in the forum, I found references to the
/etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules file.

In this file, there are 7 ethernet devices listed, eth0 to eth6.
Each has a MAC address listed, yet I only have two of the devices.

The file looks like this:

# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, probably run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single line.

# PCI device 0x14e4:0x1713 (tg3)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTRS{address}=="00:16:d4:de:dc:b0", NAME="eth0"

# PCI device 0x8086:0x4222 (ipw3945)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTRS{address}=="00:1b:77:7d:56:7a", NAME="eth1"

# PCI device 0x14e4:0x1693 (tg3)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTRS{address}=="00:16:d4:dc:b4:e5", NAME="eth2"

# PCI device 0x8086:0x4222 (ipw3945)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTRS{address}=="00:1b:77:7d:51:0a", NAME="eth3"

# PCI device 0x8086:0x4222 (ipw3945)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTRS{address}=="00:13:02:23:e4:48", NAME="eth4"

# PCI device 0x10ec:0x8168 (r8169)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTRS{address}=="00:16:d4:d3:a7:16", NAME="eth4"

# PCI device 0x14e4:0x1693 (tg3)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTRS{address}=="00:1b:38:66:ec:ae", NAME="eth5"

# PCI device 0x8086:0x4222 (ipw3945)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTRS{address}=="00:1c:bf:6c:30:a1", NAME="eth6"


The only valid devices are the last two have valid MAC addresses and
correspond to the eth5 and eth6 listed by runing ifconfig in a terminal.

The contents of my /etc/network/interfaces file are:

iface lo inet loopback
auto lo

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

I am able to get to the Internet via wireless in roaming mode on eth6.

So, my questions:

1. Is this normal for the 70-persistent-net.rules file? I wonder why it
has these seemingly non-existent devices.

2. Should I clean this up? Is there a utility to run?

3. What role does /etc/network/interfaces play? It has eth0 which does not exist on my system.

I read through the 7.10 networking pages yet did not find much information about these things. Can someone point me to a more detailed source?

Thanks

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2007-12-24
Did you manually configure your Internet setting?
Generally, this is unnecessary and hoses the /etc/network/interfaces file.

For wired connections, it generally just works -- unless you are using static IP's or something. For wireless, you should only have to enter your WEP key.

Your interfaces file should only have this in it:

> iface lo inet loopback
auto lo

I would be very hesitent about "cleaning" up a lot of stuff right off the bat. I'm not sure of the purposes of all of that, unless they are reserved designations or something.

I'll try to get to the rest of your questions after the holidays (as I'm out of state for the holidays).

---

### Post by jdmelton on 2007-12-28
> **thomasaaron said:**
> Did you manually configure your Internet setting?
Generally, this is unnecessary and hoses the /etc/network/interfaces file.

For wired connections, it generally just works -- unless you are using static IP's or something. For wireless, you should only have to enter your WEP key.

Your interfaces file should only have this in it:



I would be very hesitent about "cleaning" up a lot of stuff right off the bat. I'm not sure of the purposes of all of that, unless they are reserved designations or something.

I'll try to get to the rest of your questions after the holidays (as I'm out of state for the holidays).

Actually, the interfaces file is as-delivered, or was changed by some automated process when I configured my wireless and wired networks. I did some static IP addressing then went back to roaming for testing.

To be clear, I am not having trouble connecting to my internal network or to the Internet, either wired or wireless. However, the numbering of the ethernet devices is not what I expect. The loopback "device" is labeled as expected. Most of my Linux experience has been server-side.

You are out of state for the holidays, and I am in Denver for the holidays to visit family...

---

