---
title: "9.10 Extremely Buggy"
date: 2010-03-13
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by chez17 on 2010-03-13
Hello all,

I recently upgraded to 9.10 with a clean install and while it clearly is faster than 8.10, it is very buggy for me (I have a panp4n, 64 bit 9.10). Firefox will freeze every once in a while, I'm getting Windows style system freezes where I can't do anything. Last night was the final straw when I was just watching a flash video the computer completely turned off. I use this as a development machine for work (as a coder) and I need to know if this is a bad idea. I can't have my machine just turning off.

I installed the System76 driver when I upgraded so that's not the issue. I always wait awhile after a new upgrade comes out because of potential issues like this, but this is getting bad. Just to note, I don't blame System 76 for this or anything, I just wanted to hear if other people are having the same issues, and what they did about them.

For safety's sake, should I switch back to 8.10?

---

### Post by subedistra7 on 2010-03-13
> **chez17 said:**
> Hello all,

I recently upgraded to 9.10 with a clean install and while it clearly is faster than 8.10, it is very buggy for me (I have a panp4n, 64 bit 9.10). Firefox will freeze every once in a while, I'm getting Windows style system freezes where I can't do anything. Last night was the final straw when I was just watching a flash video the computer completely turned off. I use this as a development machine for work (as a coder) and I need to know if this is a bad idea. I can't have my machine just turning off.

I installed the System76 driver when I upgraded so that's not the issue. I always wait awhile after a new upgrade comes out because of potential issues like this, but this is getting bad. Just to note, I don't blame System 76 for this or anything, I just wanted to hear if other people are having the same issues, and what they did about them.

For safety's sake, should I switch back to 8.10?

yes.

---

### Post by chez17 on 2010-03-13
Do you have any experience with what I'm talking about or are you just telling me to play it safe?

---

### Post by subedistra7 on 2010-03-13
> **chez17 said:**
> Do you have any experience with what I'm talking about or are you just telling me to play it safe?

saftey in a lower distribution number. if i was you i would rollback to 8.04.4.

---

### Post by AllRadioisDead on 2010-03-13
> **subedistra7 said:**
> saftey in a lower distribution number. If i was you i would rollback to 8.04.4.
 lol.

---

### Post by Cygnia on 2010-03-14
I have the same machine (PanP4n) and fresh installed Karmic on the day it was released last October. The only significant problem is a system slowdown on return from suspend. Other than that only a few minor niggles here and there. I'm not sure why you're having such a hard time. Maybe try downloading and burning the disc again and then one more fresh install. If not maybe it's a hardware problem.

---

### Post by bill516 on 2010-03-14
Well, I have that same machine running 9.10, which I got to from 8.10.  (Upgraded momentarily to 9.04 and then on to 9.10.  Not a good idea, really. But I did run GRUB Legacy initially that way.)  I currently do use GRUB2 rather than GRUB legacy on the assumption we are all going to have to learn GRUB2.  Frankly I still find it needlessly complex but that says more about my comfort with GRUB2 than it does about the software, I suspect.

As to how 9.10 works: It does work.  I do notice that I fail to return to full screen brightness when I come out of "suspend to RAM".  This requires I use my brightness adjustment to return the screen to its normal brightness level.  Everything else, including wireless, returns as it should.

I have a habit of experimenting with other distros and so I have had some "accidents" that have required a full and clean re-installation.  Result:  9.10 has worked the same way whether it was installed as an upgrade or as a clean install.  With other versions this has made a difference.  It has not done so with 9.10.

One other point:  I am unable to say what the System76 driver actually does for my PanP4+9.10 combination.  Doubtless it is essential with other machines in the System 76 line but it seems to make no difference I can discern with my machine.  I have it on but do I need it?  Not at all sure.

Let's assume your downloaded iso file MD5sums checked out.  If so then we need to check the integrity of the CD you burned.  If you have any doubt burn another at the slowest speed your burner will allow.  Fast burn speeds are not a good thing here.  My preferred tool is k3b.  Installing it requires that a bunch of KDE tools come along with it, but no matter.  It will work fine.  Speed is more important than burner.  Whatever you use run it slowly.

If you still have problems after you do a new and clean installation then I would suspect a hardware problem.  If you have one Thomas will help you sniff it out.

Really, your PnP4 is a very unfussy machine unless something breaks.  It should work nicely with 9.10.  In fact mine has run Mint, Kubuntu,Mandriva 2010 and sidux without a problem.  I have to think that cygnia is right; if 9.10 will not run for you there is a problem with that livecd or your hardware.

Good luck!

---

### Post by Eldera on 2010-03-14
Since I am running 9.10 on a panp4n with no problems, I'll add my two cents: I agree with Cygnia and Bill516.

The last poster who had problems with 9.10 on a panp4n had a badly burned CD. [thread]1422786[/thread]

I am not a nerd, or a geek. Just an old lady who has been bumping along the Ubuntu learning curve for the last year because I heard there was an alternative to Windows and I wanted to find out what it was all about. I have to judge a lot of things in terms of "does this sound like common sense?" To me, it does not sound like common sense to go all the way back to 8.04. especially since you have been using something more up to date successfully. In non tech terms: the panp4n has a nice amount of "oomph". To go back to 8.04 would be neglecting to use all of the "oomph". On that basis, I disagree with subedistra7. (I have had Hardy, Intrepid, Jaunty, and Karmic all on my panp4n at different times, studying different things. Using 8.04 was to me like wading in mud.)

Here's wishing you the best in getting your machine straightened out. Eldera

---

### Post by robtg on 2010-03-14
I've got a panp5.  The day 9.10 came out I did a clean install.  I couldn't get Flash to work properly so I reinstalled 9.04.  A few weeks ago I reinstalled 9.10 again figuring that after I applied all of the updates Flash might work properly.  It didn't and I reinstaled 9.04 again (I should get a life!).  9.10 is bad news; 9.04 doesn't give me a bit of trouble.

Rob

---

### Post by jml on 2010-03-16
Just to add a bit more complexity to the mix, version 10.4 will be released soon.  This will be another LTS version, and as such should have less "bleeding edge" software included.  I would suggest giving that a try when it goes gold.

Joe

---

### Post by jpv on 2010-03-16
-1 for 9.10
+1 for 9.04, but...

I've had a lot of problems on 9.10 *other than* the 64-bit 9.10 System76 factory image.  Many or most of my problems may be from really terrible LPIA support in 9.10, while 9.04 works fine (Dell Mini9).  So take that for what it's worth.

Going all the way back to LTS 8.04 seems a bit silly, when LTS 10.04 is just around the corner--though I'm going to let it "mature" for at least a month after release before I even look at it.

If you don't know what LTS is, you need to go read this: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases)

Now, 8.04 LTS --> 10.04 and 9.10 --> 10.04 are *usually* the only supported "upgrade" (as opposed to clean install) paths.  We'll have to wait until the end of April to be sure though.

So, live with 9.10 for another 2 months until you can upgrade to 10.04 LTS?  Downgrade to the stone age to 8.04, then upgrade in 2 months?  Downgrade to 9.04, then have to do a nuke&reinstall to 10.04?

You have to decide for yourself.  FWIW, I run a mix of current LTS (8.04), 9.04 LPIA, and 9.10 stock System76.  Regardless, it's ALL far better than Windows...  ;-)

---

