---
title: "12.10 laggy on panp5"
date: 2012-11-18
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by poikiloid on 2012-11-18
Has anyone else using a panp5 (system76 pangolin laptop, version 5) that upgraded to 12.10 find that some things, especially the dash, are noticeably laggier than in 12.04?

For me, just opening dash with hotkey, and searching for anything, are both slower. 12.04 was super fast. Even using unity tweaking apps to turn off background blurring and available app searching (and online lens searching), did not help...

Yes, I did reinstall the sys76 driver and restore system.

Partly due to this (but mostly that the philip5 ppa for digikam is not ready for quantal yet), I downgraded to 12.04 again...

---

### Post by isantop on 2012-11-19
> **poikiloid said:**
> Has anyone else using a panp5 (system76 pangolin laptop, version 5) that upgraded to 12.10 find that some things, especially the dash, are noticeably laggier than in 12.04?

For me, just opening dash with hotkey, and searching for anything, are both slower. 12.04 was super fast. Even using unity tweaking apps to turn off background blurring and available app searching (and online lens searching), did not help...

Yes, I did reinstall the sys76 driver and restore system.

Partly due to this (but mostly that the philip5 ppa for digikam is not ready for quantal yet), I downgraded to 12.04 again...

Did you install your Nvidia drivers? Unity uses a lot of GPU-intensive effects, and the default drivers may not provide the performance needed to really muscle through some of them on an older system like yours. I suspect that will help.

(As for digikam, have you tried Shotwell? I've found it's fairly comparable in terms of features and organization, and it's a little more modern/well developed.)

---

### Post by poikiloid on 2012-11-20
hmmm, thanks for the suggestion. i had not tried the nvidia driver--i'll keep that in mind, if/when i move up past 12.04. i wish however that the default would work better, as ubuntu's display management is now super sleek and easy esp for working with multiple different monitor setups (automatically detects and remembers multiple configurations, etc)...anyway.

no worries about the photo software--i can wait for digikam! :P for the record, digikam is absolutely fantastic with huge horsepower for advanced users. it may not look as sleek as shotwell, but that is because it offers so much, and is constantly updated. i would have to be a mac without it!

---

### Post by isantop on 2012-11-20
Actually, the new Nvidia driver (version 304) supports XRandR, so you can use the built-in display management system with the proprietary Nvidia Driver.

Out of curiosity, what are the big features that Shotwell lacks that Digikam has? I know several professional-level photographers, and they're all very happy with Shotwell (I even attended a session with Yorba at UDS, where we talked about improving Shotwell for advanced users).

---

### Post by poikiloid on 2012-11-21
Shotwell is great for what it is--simple, sleek.

However, for example, it doesn't manage metadata in the advanced ways that digikam can. I like to be able to save preset groups of metadata fields as a profile, and apply them in batch. I also want to be able to edit the metadata of the less-common fields.

Actually, even digikam handles metadata in some less-than-ideal ways, depending on what you need to do, and I sometimes resort to the command line.

XMP is the future of metadata, and any software should make use of it, but also apply it synchronously to the corresponding fields of other (ipa, exif) formats, to prevent software lock-in. I know metadata is a moving target at this point, but many things are becoming fairly standardized. They should also show, and be able to edit and add, custom fields.

Besides that, digikam uses the kipi editing plugins (maybe shotwell too?), so that is nice.

Really, everything. digikam just offers so much for those who need to manage large collections in advanced ways... There are few features that I have not found use for at one time or another, and many are used daily.

---

