---
title: "Help with external monitor"
date: 2009-05-29
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by eddietours on 2009-05-29
l have the Gaz ultra l try using the external monitor but can't get high resolution then 1024x768
am running Jaunty any help will be appreciated

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-05-29
Are you trying to configure the monitor from System > Prefs > Display?
What resolutions are available for the external monitor?
What model is the external monitor?
Are you trying to clone your laptops lcd or create a spanned desktop?

---

### Post by eddietours on 2009-05-29
Hello thom for the external monitor the only resolution l get is 1024x768 am also trying to 
spanned desktop l was able to get higher resolution before on ibex , the monitor is a samsung
lcd

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-05-29
Did you upgrade from Intrepid to Jaunty, or did you do a fresh install. I'm wondering if it created a fresh xorg.conf or if it is still using the old one. Do you know?

Try turning off your desktop effects (System > Prefs > Appearance > Visual Effects > None) and then rebooting your computer. Does that give you more resolution options?

---

### Post by eddietours on 2009-05-29
yes is a Fresh install to Jaunty l also try removing the Desktop still the same resolution after restart

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-05-29
What is the resolution of the monitor *supposed* to be? I'll do some testing on my most similar shop monitor.

---

### Post by eddietours on 2009-05-29
1280x1024

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-05-30
OK, let's try manually adding your monitor in xorg.conf.

Run these commands from a terminal...
```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup  #First and third X are capitals
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf #That first X is a capital
```

Then make your monitor section look like this...

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier "Generic Monitor"
    Option "DPMS"
    HorizSync 28-80
    VertRefresh 43-60
EndSection

Then save the file. Then reboot. Does that fix it? If not, revert back to your original configuration by running these commands and rebooting...

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo reboot -h now

```

If the above fix didn't work, please reply back with...

1. The output of...
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

2. An explanation of how you are trying to use your monitor (i.e. cloned or spanned desktop...)

3. The *complete* model number of your monitor, not just the manufacturer.

---

### Post by eddietours on 2009-05-30
hey Thom no luck yet here is the xorg.conf

eddie@eddie-laptop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	2640 800
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

eddie@eddie-laptop:~$ 


about the setup am trying a spanned the Desktop 
the Monitor am trying to use is a Samsung SyncMaster 931b it use to work under interprid:(

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-06-01
Try making your monitor section look like this...

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "SyncMaster 931B"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 30-65
VertRefresh 50-75
EndSection


In your "Screen" section, change this line...
Virtual 2640 800
...to...
Virtual 2640 1024

Then save and reboot.

Don't forget to back up your xorg.conf before testing this. That way you can revert back to your backup if this hoses everything.

---

### Post by eddietours on 2009-06-01
Thom thank you the man thank you very much:p

---

