---
title: "8.04 cups bug?"
date: 2008-05-09
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by ctsdownloads on 2008-05-09
Really beginning to think that longer testing cycles are in order as the list of bugs with 8.04 are perhaps the most annoying to date.

Right now, I am dealing with CUPs printing out blank pages. So here is how this goes down. My HP Deskjet F4100 all-in-one works fine with Feisty, Gutsy, what have ya. On the host machine, I use HPLIP as it is simply the best in my  opinion.

On my 8.04 running notebook, I am using ipp: to connect to my printer. I have been doing ipp connections forever, so the syntax is right and it is verified from the print manager in Heron. Ports are all forwarded, although because of that silly "UFW" annoyance, I tested it again with it completely removed in case the ports were not being opened up right.

Here is where I can prove this is a Heron bug. Connecting to the CUPS server via the IP addy, I can print a test page remotely with zero issues. Trying the same test page (or even one of my own pages) leads to abysmal failure.

So long story short - with my HP Deskjet F4100 networked printer, I can print from the http CUPS manager, while the GNOME CUPS print manager and Ubuntu itself is giving me blank pages.

Now where did I put that 7.10 CD... :mad:

---

### Post by jdb on 2008-05-09
If I use the "print selection" option in firefox, I get blank pages in Hardy.  Gutsy works fine.

jdb

---

### Post by ctsdownloads on 2008-05-09
Redid the driver, went with a generic postscript, which is fine for now as it now prints. It's too bad though as this error is going to frustrate a lot of users I suspect...

---

### Post by ctsdownloads on 2008-05-09
Yeah, definitely going to need to do a LOT of testing before I install 8.04 onto my desktop. There is a reason I run with older releases on it, this is just one such example.

---

### Post by RickRussellTX on 2008-05-25
I'll confirm these errors. I've been unable to print anything but garbage to my Lexmark C532N, a perfectly compliant network Postscript printer. Meanwhile, the black & white Brother 1470N sitting right next to it is working fine. 

Of course, the Lexmark has no problems with Windows or MacOS 10 Postscript output.

Is there some sort of error escalation here? Someplace I should report this?

RR

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-05-26
Unfortunately, we do not have a Lexmark to test with.
Did that printer work under Gutsy?

Also, when installing it, were you given a choice of drivers, and are you sure you chose the correct one? You might try going to system > administration > drivers and deleting that printer and then re-installing it.

---

### Post by jdb on 2008-06-10
> **jdb said:**
> If I use the "print selection" option in firefox, I get blank pages in Hardy.  Gutsy works fine.

jdb

The updater just pushed me the new firefox, it's not beta anymore & "print selection" works great!! :)

jdb

---

### Post by kennyb328 on 2008-06-12
I have been struggling with 8.04 cups and my HPphotosmart 7260 printer which has been working from Dapper Drake to Gutsy and all the upgrades in between.  Currently, a print job just sits there and never gets printed.  This is a USB connection.  I checked th printer on win98SE dual boot and it works fine.  the HPLIP 285 is installed.

What is wrong?

---

### Post by ravl on 2008-06-13
Hello,
I'm recently switched to Kubuntu 8.04 from Debian. Installing it on my laptop was fairly easy, and the first time I plugged in my HP printer, a small window popped saying it detected it and it was ready to use. I thought it was done, since everything else worked out of the box.
Today I tried to print, and any KDE application I used to print becomes non-responsive. HPLIP toolbox also hangs, and if I click on Printers in System Settings, it also becomes non-responsive.
This is not so critical now, but once school starts again I will need printing capabilities. And I don't want to leave this great distro, even the remote control on my laptop works!

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-06-13
Which version of HPLIP do you have installed.
It looks like this problem has been fixed in the most recent version.

[http://hplip.sourceforge.net/release_notes.html](http://hplip.sourceforge.net/release_notes.html)

---

### Post by ravl on 2008-06-13
I have HPLIP 2.8.2 installed. I'm downloading the 2.8.5 version from the sourceforge project page, and will try installing it.

Update: I installed HPLIP 2.8.5, it detected and installed the network printer without problems. But the original problem remains, any application that tries to print becomes non-reponsive, and also System Settings when I try to open the Printers page.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-06-13
Did you restart cups (or reboot your computer)? Not sure if that matters, but it is probably worth a try.

---

### Post by ravl on 2008-06-13
After some probing and investigating, I realized the problem was that my firewall was blocking port 631 to the CUPS server, so I opened the port and everything is working well.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-06-13
Great job, ravl. I wouldn't have though of that.

---

### Post by BoredOutOfMyMind on 2008-06-15
> **ravl said:**
> I have HPLIP 2.8.2 installed. I'm downloading the 2.8.5 version from the sourceforge project page, and will try installing it.

Update: I installed HPLIP 2.8.5, it detected and installed the network printer without problems. But the original problem remains, any application that tries to print becomes non-reponsive, and also System Settings when I try to open the Printers page.

Why is 2.8.5 NOT in the backports yet?

On a 64 Bit fresh (maybe 3 weeks old) install it was working fine and about a week ago it began printing in Jibberish from both FF and from OpenOffice.  Test print worked great, but anything else is junk.  HP PSC1610

:(

Removed the Device from the HP gui tools and reinstalled it and it seems to have been repaired...

---

