---
title: "U.p.s."
date: 2009-09-21
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by macabrem on 2009-09-21
When others on the forum received their System 76 computers from UPS, was a signature required?  Just curious - I'm actually hoping one isn't required for my delivery since it may be hard to be home during delivery hours.

---

### Post by dlavi1976 on 2009-09-21
My Starling was delivered today.  No signature was required.  I have not been home yet to open it up.
 
Dan

---

### Post by macabrem on 2009-09-21
> **dlavi1976 said:**
> My Starling was delivered today.  No signature was required.  I have not been home yet to open it up.
 
Dan

And you're not rushing home at this minute to pick it up!?  :)

Thats good news that you received it.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-09-21
Most of our computers do ship signature required.

---

### Post by marshmallow1304 on 2009-09-21
Starling, no.
Pangolin, yes.

---

### Post by samalex on 2009-09-21
> **macabrem said:**
> When others on the forum received their System 76 computers from UPS, was a signature required?  Just curious - I'm actually hoping one isn't required for my delivery since it may be hard to be home during delivery hours.

A signature was required on mine, and being I don't work near home and couldn't be there for drop-off I had to hang-out at the UPS office until about 9:30pm that Friday night to get my PanP5 else I would've have to wait until Monday.

I actually preferred this though, whether it was something I selected on ordering or just System 76's default.  When I bought my iBook about 6 years ago Apple didn't ask and I even called UPS (or was it FedEx, don't remember) giving them the tracking number and asking to hold it for pickup.  Then one day I checked the site and it showed my laptop had been delivered!  I freaked and drove strait home to find it sitting on my front porch for all to see.

Since then I've been adamant to require a signature for anything of value when having it delivered.

Sam

---

### Post by riseringseeker on 2009-09-23
> **samalex said:**
> 
Since then I've been adamant to require a signature for anything of value when having it delivered.

Sam

Good luck on that one!  I know of a government agency that has given up shipping (pricey/restricted items) via the major carriers because no matter HOW loud they made clear a signature was required, things were left on doorsteps with no signature.  In this case, they've resorted to couriers (of sorts).

---

### Post by registering on 2009-09-23
^^ Sadly I've had the same experience. Whether ordering stuff for me, or my business ordering stuff for it, we've had things requiring signatures simply never obtaining signatures, things left on doorsteps (expensive things!), or in one case, the signature was forged by the carrier. So remember: just because you have a signature doesn't mean it was from the customer, and just because you pay for getting a signature doesn't necessarily mean they'll ever try to obtain a signature.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-09-23
> **registering said:**
> ^^ Sadly I've had the same experience. Whether ordering stuff for me, or my business ordering stuff for it, we've had things requiring signatures simply never obtaining signatures, things left on doorsteps (expensive things!), or in one case, the signature was forged by the carrier. So remember: just because you have a signature doesn't mean it was from the customer, and just because you pay for getting a signature doesn't necessarily mean they'll ever try to obtain a signature.

Which is stupid because the customer could claim they never got it and get another one, hehe.

---

### Post by Eyore15 on 2009-09-23
> **macabrem said:**
> When others on the forum received their System 76 computers from UPS, was a signature required?  Just curious - I'm actually hoping one isn't required for my delivery since it may be hard to be home during delivery hours.

I just got my starling.  UPS dropped it off in front of the door and took off like a bat out of hell.  Don't know if one was required, but I sure wasn't asked to provide one.

mcm

---

### Post by macabrem on 2009-09-24
My Starling shipped yesterday.  Now I hope it doesn't take the full 7 days that UPS tracking estimates.  I guess maybe it will take that long to get to IL from Oregon...

---

