---
title: "Star3 Disable mouse by window"
date: 2010-12-24
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by greghk on 2010-12-24
For keyboard intensive applications, I have to disable the trackpad on the Star3 to avoid extraneous clicks. My text editor, jEdit, supports almost complete navigation by keyboard so I use it with the mouse off. I generally use the mouse to navigate in Firefox. In Thunderbird I have to turn off the mouse to enter text and turn it back on to navigate. This makes for a lot of Fn-F1s to toggle the mouse off and on.

I would prefer to disable the mouse by window (application) so that jEdit would receive no mouse clicks by default. Other windows would receive mouse clicks by default. There should be an option to dynamically flip the setting by window.

I'm not all that familiar with the Linux Graphics stack but my first guess would be to do this at the Window Manager level - Metacity in this case. But it might be X11, Gnome, GTK etc.

How is the existing Fn-F1 implemented?

Suggestions? Comments?

thanks,
Greg

---

### Post by isantop on 2010-12-27
Hi Greg.

The existing Fn+F1 is implemented at the hardware level, so there is no easy way to get it to apply via certain windows.

---

### Post by Tart on 2010-12-28
Is there a similar command for Star1? Fn+F1 puts Star1 to sleep. I would love to have a shortcut to disable touchpad from time to time.

---

### Post by Dave_L on 2010-12-28
I've found the panel applet Pointer Capture, which is included in the package mousetweaks, helpful.

---

### Post by greghk on 2011-02-03
X11 looked like a huge learning curve so I solved the problem in jEdit by disabling the mouse wheel scroller which was causing the text area to scroll up and down and disabling mouse presses which were moving the caret. This is only for the text editing area. The mouse remains active elsewhere in jEdit, even in the TextArea gutter and scroll bar. so I don't need to toggle the mouse on/off for jEdit any more. Here's the diff file against the current jEdit trunk for anyone else using jEdit on the Starling or any other computer with an accident prone mouse. It was only 3 lines of code.

Index: jEdit/org/gjt/sp/jedit/textarea/MouseHandler.java
===================================================================
--- jEdit/org/gjt/sp/jedit/textarea/MouseHandler.java	(revision 19329)
+++ jEdit/org/gjt/sp/jedit/textarea/MouseHandler.java	(working copy)
@@ -48,6 +48,7 @@
 	@Override
 	public void mousePressed(MouseEvent evt)
 	{
+		/* ghk comment out this method to use jEdit effectively on the Starling 3
 		showCursor();
 
 		control = (OperatingSystem.isMacOS() && evt.isMetaDown())
@@ -128,6 +129,7 @@
 				break;
 			}
 		}
+		*/
 	} //}}}
 
 	//{{{ mouseReleased() method
Index: jEdit/org/gjt/sp/jedit/textarea/TextArea.java
===================================================================
--- jEdit/org/gjt/sp/jedit/textarea/TextArea.java	(revision 19329)
+++ jEdit/org/gjt/sp/jedit/textarea/TextArea.java	(working copy)
@@ -135,7 +136,7 @@
 
 
 		addFocusListener(new FocusHandler());
-		addMouseWheelListener(new MouseWheelHandler());
+		// addMouseWheelListener(new MouseWheelHandler());
 
 		//}}}


That fixes my worst pain point. I'll leave the thread open since it doesn't fully solve the problem.

There ought to be a way to design the mouse so you don't hit it accidentally. Trackpad?, touch screen? put the mouse pad above, beside (flip up?) or underneath! the keyboard?

---

### Post by greghk on 2011-02-04
> **isantop said:**
> Hi Greg.

The existing Fn+F1 is implemented at the hardware level, so there is no easy way to get it to apply via certain windows.

I just realized that my problem with the mouse on the Star3 is only with the "mouse wheel", (the right side of the touch pad) and with mouse clicks generated by accidentally pressing the touch pad. Moving the mouse pointer accidentally is not a problem for me. The rocker bar is also not a problem since I don't hit it accidentally. 

For my usage Fn+F1 should only disable clicks or scrolls generated on the touch pad. Then I could still move the mouse with the touch pad and click it with the rocker bar. I already need to use the rocker bar to drag. One hand comes off the keyboard already to move the mouse so it might as well be both hands since I currently can't type while mousing anyway. I could run like this for all but the most mouse-intensive applications.

Since Fn+F1 is implemented at the hardware level it should be able to distinguish touch pad clicks, touch pad scroll, touch pad mouse moves and the rocker bar actions. Since it's togglable from the keyboard, it's almost certainly firmware. Bios? System 76 should be able to implement this and provide it as an option to existing Star3 computers!

---

### Post by isantop on 2011-02-04
Are you trying to disable clicking and scrolling permanently? A BIOS modification like that would be pretty major, and it isn't likely to happen anytime soon. However, there is a configuration utility for the touchpad on the Starling. It's described here:

[http://knowledge76.com/index.php/Star3](http://knowledge76.com/index.php/Star3)

---

### Post by greghk on 2011-02-05
I don't want to disable clicking and scrolling permanently.

The Sentelic Finger-sensing Pad configuration (fspc) utility has the function that I was asking for. I.e. it can switch off clicking and/or scrolling and while still allowing the pad to move the mouse pointer. It does not affect the rocker bar. It is then possible to mouse with the pad and click with the rocker bar with no accidental clicks. Thanks for the pointer!

The fspc command launches a GUI interface which is cumbersome to use. Googling indicates that Sentelic has GPLed the driver and scripts are available to set the pad properties.

That opens up the possibility to: 
- toggle the settings by script
- attach the toggle to a key combination, ideally Fn-F1
- change the settings by window in focus if the window manager supplies a hook...
- change the settings when "typing" if there is an algorithm to detect that...

Greg

---

### Post by greghk on 2011-02-05
On the Star3 the Sentelic settings files are actually in /sys/devices/platform/i8042/serio2/ instead of /sys/devices/platform/i8042/serio1/ that shows up via Google for other computers.

chmod o+w flags

from a root prompt worked to allow a user script to toggle the touch pad click on/off
 (C/c).

---

### Post by greghk on 2011-02-06
Step by step instructions to toggle just the Sentelic mouse click instead of all mouse functions:

1/ make Sentelic touchpad config system files user writeable
/sys is a virtual file system that Linux recreates at startup. By default only root can update the virtual files that control the Sentelic config. The following sets up a script that makes the touchpad config files user writeable each time Linux starts.

```
gksudo gedit /etc/rc.local 
```

add the following 4 lines before exit 0

```
# enable ~/.fspc/toggle.sh to change Sentelic mouse click 
# brute force wait until figure out how to use Upstart
sleep 15
chmod o+w /sys/devices/platform/i8042/serio2/flags

```
save the file

I have the Intel SSD and my Star3 pretty much boots in 15 seconds. 
You might have to lengthen the sleep if your system boots really slowly.
The better solution would be to use the new Upstart system but I couldn't figure out which event to trigger on to guaranty the chmod runs after the virtual filesystem is in place. Suggestions welcome. If you want to update additional Sentelic control files then add additional chmod statements for hscroll, vscroll etc.

Test by manually executing rc.local as root and 
```
ls -l /sys/devices/platform/i8042/serio2/flags
```
to ensure the last write flag is set

Another alternative would be to give root authority to the script that actually toggles the settings. I'm not sure if that opens up more or less of a hole in the system. Suggestions welcome. 

2/ create toggle.sh (can be any name you like, anywhere in user space you like) I put it in ~/.fspc beside the fspc.ini
add the following code

```
#!/bin/bash
# toggle Sentilic touch pad settings
# start with the click
# try living with accidental scrolling for apps outside of jEdit
curflag=$(cat /sys/devices/platform/i8042/serio2/flags) 
if [ $curflag = "c" ];
  then echo -n C > /sys/devices/platform/i8042/serio2/flags
  else echo -n c > /sys/devices/platform/i8042/serio2/flags
fi
```

You can add additional logic to toggle other settings such as vertical and horizontal scroll. 

```
chmod u+x toggle.sh
```

run toggle.sh manually and ensure that mouse clicking toggles on/off.

3/ bind the toggle script to a keyboard shortcut
System > Preferences > Keyboard Shortcuts
add a custom shortcut
if you put the toggle script in you user directory then you have to type the name in full: /home/greg/.fspc/toggle.sh, instead of ~/.fspc/toggle.sh
Pick any key combination you like. I used the super key+F1. Gnome would not overwrite Fn+F1, which is what I would have preferred.

enjoy
Greg

---

### Post by hasenj on 2011-02-07
Take a look at touchfreeze:

[http://qsynaptics.sourceforge.net/index.html](http://qsynaptics.sourceforge.net/index.html)

It used to be in the repositories but it's not in 10.10, I had to build from source.

It disables "touch-to-click" when you're typing, you can set a delay parameter to make the disabling last longer.

---

### Post by isantop on 2011-02-07
touchfreeze is a great utility, but it only works for Synaptic touchpads, like those on the Lemur or Pangolin. The Starling and Serval (6) touchpads are different (Sentelic), and they aren't supported by touchfreeze.

---

