---
title: "7.10-&gt;8.04 upgrade, Wireless dropping is back"
date: 2008-05-17
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by imhavoc on 2008-05-17
Tom,

After upgrading my Daru2 from Kubuntu 7.10 to 8.04, I'm experiencing the problem with my wireless card "disappearing" again. I can't find the thread (in the archives) that we used to solve it for 7.10. I applied what I thought was the solution from another thread, but it hasn't changed anything.

thanks.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-05-19
Please provide more information on what you've already tried.
Also, what do you mean by saying your card disappeared? Is it just dropping the connection, or does it actually disappear from lspci?

---

### Post by imhavoc on 2008-05-19
Wireless is dropping, and is not available at all until I reboot the machine.

I'll get you more info next time it crashses.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-05-19
Do you have the 3945 card?
```
lspci | grep 3945
```

---

### Post by imhavoc on 2008-05-19
```
02:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection (rev 02)
```

yep

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-05-20
OK. Here was the old fix.

echo blacklist ipw3945 | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
echo iwl3945 | sudo tee -a /etc/modules

---

### Post by imhavoc on 2008-05-25
I've already done that, and it didn't solve the problem.

Last time I did that, it changed the icon for the network management to a KDE wireless indicator. This time, it did not.

The drop today was so bad that I was forced to shutdown and power up. Usually, a reboot gets the wireless back online, but not today.

Just strange.

Is there any other information I can gather for you?

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2008-05-26
OK. I'll try to replicate this tomorrow. (We're off today.)
Since I put a 4965 card in my GazV5, I've not had this problem. But if the aforementioned fix does not help, I'm gonna have to do some testing on it.
Can you shoot me an email reminder?

---

