---
title: "Can not install system76 driver in Pangolin I"
date: 2007-10-27
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by jhofmann on 2007-10-27
I installed ubuntu 7.10 on a Pangolin (Version 1, I suppose) from the live cd downloaded using the pointer from your HOWTO site.  

All went well, except there are no system76 drivers and I can't get them to install.  I download the file and run
dpkg -i system76-drivers-2.1.1 and it runs to completion without error.
I then run system76-driver from the root command prompt and get
the message saying 

grep: /opt/system76/model/model: No such file or directory

and a popup window that says "This driver is designed for System76 machines running ... 7.10..."

It goes on to say I should file a bug report.

I have tried the suggestions I have found

Adding planet76.com/repositories to sources.  This works and changes nothing.

I feel like I'm missing something.  How does the driver know I have a system76 machine?  I bought the machine with Dapper on it, and have successfully upgraded to Edgy and Feisty.  But...This is the first time I tried it from a downloaded ubuntu ISO disk.

Any help would be appreciated.

Jim

---

### Post by palintheus on 2007-10-29
Looking on their wiki, it doesn't look like the driver does anything for the pan1, which is why it might be erroring.

[http://knowledge76.com/index.php/System76_Driver](http://knowledge76.com/index.php/System76_Driver)

---

### Post by jhofmann on 2007-10-29
Thanks for the reply.

Persistance and Dumb Luck have once again saved the day.  

It seems that the procedure for installing ubuntu on a system 76 machine leaves out a few files.  So far I have found two

1.  /opt/system76/model/model, which looks like this:

##############################################
## DO NOT REMOVE OR MODIFY ###################
## THIS FILE IDENTIFIES YOUR #################
## COMPUTER FOR DRIVER UPDATES ###############
## COPYRIGHT SYSTEM76, INC. ##################
##############################################
ec-panv1
##############################################

Of course, the only uncommented line will have particulars for your machine, in my case a first-edition pangolin value.

Having this file in place permits the system76 driver to start, and the "install" and "Restore" buttons can be pressed.

2.  /etc/modprobe.d/ipw2200.modprobe, which contains only the lines

options ipw2200 antenna=3
options ipw2200 led=1

The "modprobe" extension gives me to believe that the file is supposed to be generated by some other program, but didn't.

The options themselves are obvious.  Somehow, the native state of the built in wireless card is not configured with an antenna, or not the right one.  This solves the problem of very weak signa, and very slow operation, and frequent failure to connect at all.  

The led option turns on the functionality of the little light on the laptop.  

Creating this file on the Pangolin completely solved the wireless problem.  I now have a strong, reliable signal on my home network.

The only button which still doesn't work is the mouse enable/disable button.  I suspect another missing file.

I tried to follow the instructions for putting a fresh copy of ubuntu on my Pangolin.  I wonder how those files were supposed to get there?
The module file can't be installed by system76-driver, it is a prerequisite for it.  

I wonder what else is missing?

I sincerely hope this helps someone!
Jim

---

