---
title: "Dare3 - Wrong Resulution after resume"
date: 2009-03-20
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by arepaking on 2009-03-20
Hi all,
When I close the screen my daru3 goes to suspend without any issues, after opening the screen my daru3 goes to resume mode but the resolution that I get is 1024x768 (4:3) instead of 1024x800 (16:10).

When I go to Screen Resolution setting I cannot find the 1024x800 (16:10) either. The only way that I found is by doing a soft reset (reboot).

Does anyone had this issue before?

Regards,
AK

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-03-20
Are you connected to an external monitor?

Please post the output of this command...
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by arepaking on 2009-03-21
> **thomasaaron said:**
> Are you connected to an external monitor?

Please post the output of this command...
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Hi Thomas,
I am not connected to an external monitor. The xorg.conf content goes as follow:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```


Thanks in advance for your help.

Regards,
AK

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-03-21
Go to System > Preferences > Screen Resolution.
Is the "Mirror Screens" checkbox selected? If so, de-select it.

If it is not, let me know and I'll run some tests Monday.

---

### Post by arepaking on 2009-03-22
> **thomasaaron said:**
> Go to System > Preferences > Screen Resolution.
Is the "Mirror Screens" checkbox selected? If so, de-select it.

If it is not, let me know and I'll run some tests Monday.

I checked my screen resolutions settings and it is not marked. 

Thanks again,
AK

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-03-23
OK. I suspended and resumed on our shop DarU3, and I don't get this problem.

So, just to make sure we're on the same sheet of music, above you said...

> When I close the screen my daru3 goes to suspend without any issues, after opening the screen my daru3 goes to resume mode but the resolution that I get is 1024x768 (4:3) instead of 1024x800 (16:10).

I figure it was just a typo, but your DarU3 should have 1280x800 resolution before and after suspending/resuming. Not 1024x800. That's what you meant, right?

Also, do you get this when you suspend/resume after a fresh boot up? (i.e. turn the computer completely off, turn it back on, suspend and resume) 

Or is it after multiple sequential suspend/resume cycles?

Another thing you can try is re-installing your video drivers. To do that, run these commands from a terminal...

> sudo apt-get --purge remove xserver-xorg-video-intel
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-intel
sudo reboot -h now

---

