---
title: "9.04 feature"
date: 2009-05-05
forum: System76 Support
---

### Post by ewg on 2009-05-05
Has anyone tried the "computer janitor" from the system administration menu yet? Just wondering if it really works.

Thanks,

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-05-05
It works, alright. But it's the biggest piece of crap-ware I've seen in a long time.

I've had reports of it deleting google-earth from some computers. It erased VirtualBox from mine.

What a piece of junk.

---

### Post by Collin White on 2009-05-05
It keeps trying to delete Skype for some reason.

---

### Post by ewg on 2009-05-06
Wow, strong words from Thomas. I'm thinking I won't try it. 

The only other gripe I have with 9.04 is the indexing glitch, which from other forums I see, has been tagged as a bug. Quite annoying but lots of work arounds have been posted.

Thanks,

---

### Post by perce on 2009-05-06
Apparently we are aiming to full Windows compatibility :(

---

### Post by Lee_Machine on 2009-05-06
Yeah, it's pretty bad. At first I thought it was supposed to do the same thing as deleting orphaned, and broken packages from synaptic. 

It just pulls the list from Synaptic under the filter Installed (local or obsolete) 

Just another useless GUI where your CL options work better. 

A better GUI would be GTKorphan.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-05-06
> Apparently we are aiming to full Windows compatibility 

:guitar: Funny, perce. Keep 'em coming! You've got to have a sense of humor after that thing starts hosing programs.

I kind of wonder what else it hosed. There were a bunch of other lib packages that it deleted. Xulrunner, etc... I assumed (yes, I know the implications of that word) that since it said '.deb package' beside it that it was just cleaning up left over cruft. But then, it listed my VBox installation as a .deb package too.

---

### Post by mxboy15u on 2009-05-06
Deleted skype for me, I thought it was just targeting unused files but I guess not. That should be deleted from a new users computer...too frustrating and dangerous.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-05-06
Looks like Jaunty pulled it out. It's not in our most recent image (which is about a week or two old). So, I'm guessing people that have this problem have either imaged from an older CD or received a computer prior to our image refresh.

---

### Post by schmindy on 2009-05-07
system 76 should get rid of it (or remove it from the menu). BTW wasn't there something like that back in windows '95. Seriously? The last thing we need is less software for linux.... Maybe canonical should develop something useful like a good video editor...

---

### Post by ewg on 2009-05-07
I know we have drifted off topic a bit but I'd like to see a good DVD/CD slide show maker for Ubuntu.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-05-08
You could do that with Kino.

---

### Post by ewg on 2009-05-08
Thanks Thomas. I looked at Kino but it seems to be for camcorder video creating/editing. I just want to put some still pictures in a 'slide show' format with music.

---

### Post by thomasaaron on 2009-05-08
You can import other graphics and files into it. If you just want to pop a dvd into a player, though, and have it start the show, that's probably what you are going to have to do.

In other word, Kino will create an actual audio-visual DVD that your standard home DVD player will recognize and play.

If there's an easier way (...and there probably is :) ), I don't know what it is.

---

