---
title: "Maverick don't configure my Nvidia Graphics Card"
date: 2010-09-07
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by leillo1975 on 2010-09-07
Hello

I have a Nvidia FX5500 AGP and I recently install Maverick in my CPU. 
I'm trying to install the propietary drivers with "Addittional Drivers" (jockey-gtk), but this utility don't shows the option to install the "nvidia" driver.

I'm trying to install "nvidia-glx-173" via "Ubuntu Software Center", but when I restart the system, the X server crash.

If I use a "xorg.conf" configured with the driver "nouveau" I have the same problem. If I change the driver to "nv" I have no errors.

Can someone help me? Can developers solve this problem?

---

### Post by paul_in_london on 2010-09-07
You shouldn't actually need an xorg.conf file with the more recent versions of Xorg. If you do use one, the Module section should look like this so that the nvidia module is loaded:

```
Section "Module"
        Load    "glx"
EndSection
```

Try booting into recovery mode with networking (netroot option) and run these commands:

```
sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude safe-upgrade
sudo aptitude install nvidia-current
```

and then reboot normally.

If you already have nvidia-current installed, use:

```
sudo aptitude reinstall nvidia-current
```

at the 3rd step above.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-09-07
> **leillo1975 said:**
> Sorry... this post is duplicated. 

Can the administrators delete it?

Duplicate thread gone.

---

### Post by leillo1975 on 2010-09-07
This is my Xorg.conf :

```
# File generated by XFdrake (rev 247269)

# **********************************************************************
# Refer to the xorg.conf man page for details about the format of
# this file.
# **********************************************************************

Section "ServerFlags"
    #DontZap # disable <Ctrl><Alt><BS> (server abort)
    AllowMouseOpenFail # allows the server to start up even if the mouse does not work
    #DontZoom # disable <Ctrl><Alt><KP_+>/<KP_-> (resolution switching)
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Disable "dri"
    Load "dbe" # Double-Buffering Extension
    Load "v4l" # Video for Linux
    Load "extmod"
    Load "type1"
    Load "freetype"
    Load "glx" # 3D layer
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier "Keyboard1"
    Driver "kbd"
    Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option "XkbLayout" "es"
    Option "XkbOptions" "compose:rwin"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier "Mouse1"
    Driver "mouse"
    Option "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option "Device" "/dev/mouse"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier "monitor1"
    VendorName "Generic"
    ModelName "Flat Panel 1280x1024"
    HorizSync 31.5-64.0
    VertRefresh 56.0-65.0
    
    # TV fullscreen mode or DVD fullscreen output.
    # 768x576 @ 79 Hz, 50 kHz hsync
    ModeLine "768x576"     50.00  768  832  846 1000   576  590  595  630
    
    # 768x576 @ 100 Hz, 61.6 kHz hsync
    ModeLine "768x576"     63.07  768  800  960 1024   576  578  590  616
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier "device1"
    Driver "nv"
    Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "screen1"
    Device "device1"
    Monitor "monitor1"
    DefaultColorDepth 24
    
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth 8
        Modes "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "640x480" "480x360" "320x240"
    EndSubsection
    
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth 15
        Modes "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "640x480" "480x360" "320x240"
    EndSubsection
    
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth 16
        Modes "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "640x480" "480x360" "320x240"
    EndSubsection
    
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth 24
        Modes "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "640x480" "480x360" "320x240"
    EndSubsection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier "layout1"
    InputDevice "Keyboard1" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice "Mouse1" "CorePointer"
    Screen "screen1"
EndSection
```

If I change driver to "nouveau" or "nvidia" the X server crash

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2010-09-07
> **paul_in_london said:**
> You shouldn't actually need an xorg.conf file with the more recent versions of Xorg. If you do use one, the Module section should look like this so that the nvidia module is loaded:

```
Section "Module"
        Load    "glx"
EndSection
```


This is not necessary as the glx module gets loaded by default (see Xorg logs).

---

### Post by paul_in_london on 2010-09-07
> **MacUntu said:**
> This is not necessary as the glx module gets loaded by default (see Xorg logs).

My bad. Thanks. I should have made it clearer that if he was using an xorg.conf (which shouldn't be necessary anyway unless he wants to tweak some settings) and if it included a Module section he needed to make sure that he wasn't explicitly loading something other than the glx module.

---

### Post by VMC on 2010-09-07
When I ran jockey it didn't list the older 173,193 series. Just listed current and to activate.
When installed I was at version 256.53. The 17*, 19* series was only showing up on the older updates, and yes mine crash or rather looted to a VT on boot. With the newest version 256.53 it works.

---

### Post by leillo1975 on 2010-09-08
> **VMC said:**
> When I ran jockey it didn't list the older 173,193 series. Just listed current and to activate.
When installed I was at version 256.53. The 17*, 19* series was only showing up on the older updates, and yes mine crash or rather looted to a VT on boot. With the newest version 256.53 it works.


My graphic card is a Nvidia Fx5500, and the newest version of the drivers is for Geforce 6 series and newest.

---

### Post by leillo1975 on 2010-09-21
Up!

Is true that there are not support for Nvidia FX5xxx cards with the propietary driver in Maverick?

---

### Post by Voynix on 2010-09-21
> **leillo1975 said:**
> Up!

Is true that there are not support for Nvidia FX5xxx cards with the propietary driver in Maverick?

It seems nvidia does not consider the 173 legacy driver as a priority.  As far as I know 173 does not work with the latest xserver and thus you  are forced to use low graphics or nouveau. (Clearly, no compiz or  compositing, and terrible rendering and slow graphics). 

It took me a couple of days to finally realise ubuntu without compiz is a  real nightmare. Due to my eye problems I am unable to work properly  without the zoom in plugin, and my workflow is heavily dependent on  some of its goodies.

Since the FX500 series are not pci-express, upgrading will require  investing in a new motherboard! My solution was to downgrade xserver and  xorg to the lucid versions, and now everything is back to normal.

---

### Post by TBerk on 2010-09-22
> **Voynix said:**
> It seems nvidia does not consider the 173 legacy driver as a priority.  As far as I know 173 does not work with the latest xserver and thus you  are forced to use low graphics or nouveau. (Clearly, no compiz or  compositing, and terrible rendering and slow graphics). 

It took me a couple of days to finally realise Ubuntu without compiz is a  real nightmare. Due to my eye problems I am unable to work properly  without the zoom in plugin, and my workflow is heavily dependent on  some of its goodies.

Since the FX500 series are not pci-express, upgrading will require  investing in a new motherboard! My solution was to downgrade xserver and  xorg to the lucid versions, and now everything is back to normal.

Could you expand on 'downgrading xorg & xserver to Lucid versions a bit more.  I too have a 5 series (AGP) nVidia video board, that worked Grrrreat! until I install Meercat.


TBerk

---

### Post by Voynix on 2010-09-22
> **TBerk said:**
> Could you expand on 'downgrading xorg & xserver to Lucid versions a bit more.  I too have a 5 series (AGP) nVidia video board, that worked Grrrreat! until I install Meercat.


TBerk


This is what I did to downgrade xserver (clearly, at your own risk):


[LIST=1]
[*]**Backup** **/etc/apt/sources.lst **and change all instances of "*meerkat*" for "*lucid*"
[*]In **Synaptic**, **remove xserver-xorg** (the following packages were removed: *xorg xserver-xorg-core xserver-xorg-input-all xserver-xorg-input-evdev xserver-xorg-input-mouse xserver-xorg-input-synaptics xserver-xorg-input-vmmouse xserver-xorg-input-wacom xserver-xorg-video-apm xserver-xorg-video-ark xserver-xorg-video-ati xserver-xorg-video-chips xserver-xorg-video-cirrus xserver-xorg-video-fbdev xserver-xorg-video-geode xserver-xorg-video-i128 xserver-xorg-video-i740 xserver-xorg-video-intel xserver-xorg-video-mach64 xserver-xorg-video-mga xserver-xorg-video-neomagic xserver-xorg-video-nv xserver-xorg-video-openchrome xserver-xorg-video-r128 xserver-xorg-video-radeon xserver-xorg-video-rendition xserver-xorg-video-s3 xserver-xorg-video-s3virge xserver-xorg-video-savage xserver-xorg-video-siliconmotion xserver-xorg-video-sis xserver-xorg-video-sisusb xserver-xorg-video-tdfx xserver-xorg-video-trident xserver-xorg-video-tseng xserver-xorg-video-v4l xserver-xorg-video-vesa xserver-xorg-video-vmware xserver-xorg-video-voodoo*)
[*]**Reload/update** the sources and **install xorg** (this will pull all dependencies.
[*]Once xorg is installed, **change the sources.lst back to maverick**
[*]**Reinstall nvidia-173** (it will fail to install unless the maverick repositories are back)
[*]**Reconfigure the xserver**: **sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg**
[*]In my case, I also had to change the alternatives as I had played around so much that the nvidia driver was ignored:
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*]**sudo update-alternatives --config gl_conf**
[*]**sudo ldconfig**
[*]**sudo update-initramfs -u**
[*]**sudo nvidia-xconfig**
[/LIST]

**Restart**. Compiz works, and the system is back to normal. In synaptic, select all the recommended updates to xserver and go to **Package > Lock Version**. They will appear under "**PINNED**". Do not update them until the nvidia driver is once again supported.

I hope this helps.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-09-22
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9874998&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9874998&postcount=2)

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-09-22
> **Voynix said:**
> Since the FX500 series are not pci-express, upgrading will require  investing in a new motherboard! My solution was to downgrade xserver and  xorg to the lucid versions, and now everything is back to normal.

There are 6XXX and 7XXX nVidia AGP cards. They should work with nvidia-current just fine. 

If thats a worthwhile upgrade depends on how much you can get a 6XXX or 7XXX AGP card for, and probably what other parts are in the box.

---

### Post by buzzmandt on 2010-09-22
does this mean that my desktop with nvidia fx5500 won't be able to move beyond lucid?

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2010-09-22
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-ia32-260.19.04-driver.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-ia32-260.19.04-driver.html)
your card is supported on the latest .run installer

> GeForce 5 FX series:
PCX 5900, FX 5800 Ultra, FX 5700, FX 5600XT, FX 5600, FX 5200 Ultra, FX 5600 Ultra, PCX 5750, FX 5700LE, FX 5950 Ultra, FX 5900XT, FX 5200LE, FX 5900ZT, FX 5700 Ultra, FX 5200, FX 5700VE, FX 5900 Ultra, FX 5900, PCX 5300, FX 5800, FX 5100, FX 5500

I just do the nvidia installer

running this version right now on MM and it is working fine.

Only issue is I have to on reboots set the refresh back to auto. Anyway to get it to keep the setting?

---

### Post by bladerunner6 on 2010-09-22
actually it doesnt support legacy the info is wrong

---

### Post by ricflomag on 2010-09-23
@Voynix:

Thanks a lot for the trick ([post 12]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9874780&postcount=12")). Installing lucid's xorg solved the problem for me. 

Just another question however: in my case, plymouth is now in text mode. How can I have the ubuntu logo back ? I've updated initramfs, reinstalled plymouth and its theme, without sucess.

Regards,
Ric.

---

### Post by leillo1975 on 2010-09-24
Ok...

I think that is time to change distribution (not version)


One of the most important things that I appreciate of Linux is that I can use a old computer with a good speed and more resources than other operating systems.

---

### Post by TBerk on 2010-09-24
I'm going to try Voynix's solution tonight. 

I tried to remove all nvidia-* and just install the driver from Nvidia's website (173) but that didn't work. 

I'm getting that old feeling again"

"Just Nuke the site from orbit, it's the only way to be sure..."


[img]http://image.guardian.co.uk/sys-images/Film/Pix/pictures/2007/10/26/alienpred460.jpg[/img]


TBerk

---

### Post by kumaryu on 2010-10-01
As noted elsewhere, a new driver (173.14.28 ) is now available from Nvidia at:
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/show....php?p=2326225](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/show....php?p=2326225)

I now have Geforce FX5700 Ultra running Maverick's Xserver 1.9 using this driver. Experience using this driver with other cards would be useful.



* A note of thanks for the downgrade workaround from Voynix in an earlier post. It was v useful.

---

### Post by kumaryu on 2010-10-04
As reported in:

Ubuntu “nvidia-graphics-drivers-173” package Bugs Bug #626918
"Nvidia 173 driver does not work with xserver 1.9 "

and

Ubuntu “xorg-server” package Bugs Bug #626974
"ABI change in xorg 1.9 breaks legacy nvidia-96 and nvidia-173 drivers in Maverick"


**nvidia-graphics-drivers-173 (173.14.28-0ubuntu1) Maverick**

**has now been released.** I can confirm that it is now included in the most recent set of updates for Maverick. :)

---

### Post by auxbuss on 2010-10-04
The new drivers have killed my machine. Black screen when gdm login expected. Xorg.0.log shows all okay.

Ideas? I have a brick here right now.

Maverick/GeForce GT 330M/Sony Vaio f-series

---

### Post by cgroza on 2010-10-04
Are you kidding me? If someone found a fix please post it here because I was planning to install Maverick right away.

---

### Post by auxbuss on 2010-10-04
No, I'm not kidding. I'm spitting teeth here. I've spent a lot of time assisting with maverick debugging, and to have my machine made unusable at this point is maddening. (I've dragged another machine out of the loft to post here.)

There are a lot of outstanding issues with maverick. If I had my time again, I would avoid it. Ubuntu seems to get about one release in three or four to be usable. Imo, this is not one of them. Do not rush into upgrading to this release.

Maybe you'll be fine upgrading, but I wager there will be a lot of issues and if you have a problem, it may take a while to get sorted.

---

### Post by leillo1975 on 2010-10-05
I update maverick today and run jockey-gtk. Now nvidia driver are running. Thanks

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2010-10-05
> **auxbuss said:**
> No, I'm not kidding. I'm spitting teeth here. I've spent a lot of time assisting with maverick debugging, and to have my machine made unusable at this point is maddening. (I've dragged another machine out of the loft to post here.)

There are a lot of outstanding issues with maverick. If I had my time again, I would avoid it. Ubuntu seems to get about one release in three or four to be usable. Imo, this is not one of them. Do not rush into upgrading to this release.

Maybe you'll be fine upgrading, but I wager there will be a lot of issues and if you have a problem, it may take a while to get sorted.

I always multiple boot ..... and have a USB flash card that I can always put in to boot off ........ ( when testing things out ) ...... by doing that you should almost never be able to make your machine into a brick ......... ( unlikely but I suppose its possible .... usually a format and re-install of a working version fixes most things )

The Development has taught me lots and now I have CD's that allow me to go back to different kernel versions ...... some work really really well on my machine ...... and I would never have found them without trying Maverick out ..... so to anybody reading this ..... having time to go through and do development work it has a lot of advantages.

It does not have to be Russian roulette ........ many versions of linux exist too ... see [DistroWatch]("http://distrowatch.com/") .... if you multiboot with other versions there are many advantages and some work better than others with different graphics cards ........ :guitar:

@auxbuss ..... you should maybe create a new thread with your problems ..... what have you tried to do so far etc .... 
put as much info as you can into a new thread ..... then the problem can be worked from there.
You have to create new threads to get your own questions answered .... you have none yet .... as far as I can see ....

[COLOR=Blue]**lellio1975 .....**[/COLOR]
> 
I update maverick today and run jockey-gtk. Now nvidia driver are  running. Thanks
@[leillo1975]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=409603") ...... good to see that you are up and working ok

---

### Post by adroitster on 2010-10-07
> **Voynix said:**
> This is what I did to downgrade xserver (clearly, at your own risk):


[LIST=1]
[*]**Backup** **/etc/apt/sources.lst **and change all instances of "*meerkat*" for "*lucid*"
[*]In **Synaptic**, **remove xserver-xorg** (the following packages were removed: *xorg xserver-xorg-core xserver-xorg-input-all xserver-xorg-input-evdev xserver-xorg-input-mouse xserver-xorg-input-synaptics xserver-xorg-input-vmmouse xserver-xorg-input-wacom xserver-xorg-video-apm xserver-xorg-video-ark xserver-xorg-video-ati xserver-xorg-video-chips xserver-xorg-video-cirrus xserver-xorg-video-fbdev xserver-xorg-video-geode xserver-xorg-video-i128 xserver-xorg-video-i740 xserver-xorg-video-intel xserver-xorg-video-mach64 xserver-xorg-video-mga xserver-xorg-video-neomagic xserver-xorg-video-nv xserver-xorg-video-openchrome xserver-xorg-video-r128 xserver-xorg-video-radeon xserver-xorg-video-rendition xserver-xorg-video-s3 xserver-xorg-video-s3virge xserver-xorg-video-savage xserver-xorg-video-siliconmotion xserver-xorg-video-sis xserver-xorg-video-sisusb xserver-xorg-video-tdfx xserver-xorg-video-trident xserver-xorg-video-tseng xserver-xorg-video-v4l xserver-xorg-video-vesa xserver-xorg-video-vmware xserver-xorg-video-voodoo*)
[*]**Reload/update** the sources and **install xorg** (this will pull all dependencies.
[*]Once xorg is installed, **change the sources.lst back to maverick**
[*]**Reinstall nvidia-173** (it will fail to install unless the maverick repositories are back)
[*]**Reconfigure the xserver**: **sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg**
[*]In my case, I also had to change the alternatives as I had played around so much that the nvidia driver was ignored:
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*]**sudo update-alternatives --config gl_conf**
[*]**sudo ldconfig**
[*]**sudo update-initramfs -u**
[*]**sudo nvidia-xconfig**
[/LIST]

**Restart**. Compiz works, and the system is back to normal. In synaptic, select all the recommended updates to xserver and go to **Package > Lock Version**. They will appear under "**PINNED**". Do not update them until the nvidia driver is once again supported.

I hope this helps.

By "meerkat" you meant "maverick" right ? Because the sources files has maverick in it. BTW am gonna try your approach now and will post results soon.

---

