---
title: "10.10 Beta netbook VM Problem"
date: 2010-09-04
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by mcgeek on 2010-09-04
I'm interested in trying out the beta of the netbook version of 10.10. I set up a a system in Virtual Box and made it though installation. Now I can boot into the system and after logging in the new netbook interface doesn't come up. The system is running because the screen saver kicks in and blanks the screen. I can switch to the VM move the mouse and and a window comes up and asks me to log in. The screen comes back up with just the standard wallpaper and that is it.

Thanks 

McGeek

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-09-04
Did you test the image before installing?

---

### Post by mcgeek on 2010-09-04
> **uRock said:**
> Did you test the image before installing?

No.....whats the fun in that.....:p

checking now.......

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-09-04
A week or two ago I was seeing threads about the installer being broken in the A3 image.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-09-04
Moved to Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion

---

### Post by mcgeek on 2010-09-04
md5sum checks out.

10bec11e0ab5a9c195289b861b71e51e  ubuntu-10.10-beta-netbook-i386.iso

I think I found the problem though.

From the Beta installation page. I must have missed it the first time I read through it.

Ubuntu Netbook Edition with Unity does not currently provide a fallback for systems without a 3D capable video driver, such as NVidia cards. ([600567]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/600567"))

That is too bad I would have liked to play with it before installing on my netbook.

---

### Post by ktp on 2010-09-04
Yes unity doesn't work with vm right now because it needs 3d capable video driver.  If you are interested, you can look through following unity thread (it's pretty long since it was started since "day one")

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1479298](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1479298)

---

### Post by KdotJ on 2010-09-04
It's a shame :-( I wish it worked in a VM, I can't really afford to put Maverick on my laptop just yet. Images look very good though.. I'm excited

---

