---
title: "10.10 Private Key Ring"
date: 2010-09-26
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by xtsuname on 2010-09-26
Hi,

I deeply apologize if I posted this in the wrong forum. I don't think the problem is the fact that 10.10 is in beta. Hence.

I was wondering if anyone using 10.10 is having the same problem as me. A few days back I used ssh-copy-id to allow me to ssh to my server without having to type the password. Now every time I try to ssh, it will show a box titled "Unlock Private key" and no matter what I type in there, it won't unlock. 

Is there a way to find out what the password there is or how to reset that password? 

Thank  you

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2010-09-27
> **xtsuname said:**
> Hi,

I deeply apologize if I posted this in the wrong forum. I don't think the problem is the fact that 10.10 is in beta. Hence.

I was wondering if anyone using 10.10 is having the same problem as me. A few days back I used ssh-copy-id to allow me to ssh to my server without having to type the password. Now every time I try to ssh, it will show a box titled "Unlock Private key" and no matter what I type in there, it won't unlock. 

Is there a way to find out what the password there is or how to reset that password? 

Thank  you
maybe try ```
cp -r ~/.gnome2/keyrings ~/.gnome2/keyrings.old
rm -r ~/.gnome2/keyrings 
```then logout and back in

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-09-27
Moved to Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2010-09-27
There is a bug for this (I filed it), I don't have a link handy, I'll try and find it and post back

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2010-09-27
Found it: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-keyring/+bug/631980](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-keyring/+bug/631980)

---

### Post by xtsuname on 2010-10-04
Thanx, so despite the multiple "Fix Released" written there, it's not actually fixed and we don't have a way to stop it from doing that...

This is quite annoying...

Any possible work around while they "try" to fix this?

---

