---
title: "10.10  Log,  Positives and Negatives~"
date: 2010-09-20
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-09-20
Well, I need to start submitting bugs, 
but can;t remember my info to login to launchpad..
So Im going to have to create another i guess? 

anyway, I figured it might be good to start my own thread, 
log whatever issues I do find first, then submit the bugs...
but it also might be helpful to someone else , who knows? lol
never actually tested a distro before its release. 
so please bare with the n00b. lol
 thanks. 

 Running on a Dell Dimension 2350, 1GB RAM. 
Been running nothing but 10.10 for the past 4-5 days, since I reinstalled it after "partial upgrades" borked me. 

**Positives~**

 Very fast! 
As fast as I find Lucid, 10.10 may be a tad bit faster/snappier. 
Surprising, but pleasantly so. lol

 Startup and shut down are super fast...
as is Lucid, but again.. I think 10.10 might be a bit more so. 
Especially for shutdown. 
The Ubuntu "loading bar/dots" never even make it past the 3rd dot, and it is shut down. 

 GIMP~ seems way better, more responsive, quicker to load, render, save, etc. 

NO graphics card issues whatsoever, as so many of us had with 10.04. , with these old dells/ intel chipsets. 

as pretty as Lucid is, 
it feels like 10.10 is a Lucid, but even more polished.
Very attractive. <3 


[B]'Negatives/bugs~ 
[/B]
[s]after updates today, no sound. 
but was working perfectly before updates. [/s]

[s]trying to open "home" folder, or any other "places" folder,
opens up brasero for some reason, not the folders. 

Only "computer" folder opens,
and I have to go thru there to access 'home', pictures' 'music' downloads' etc.. 
it has done this since I reinstalled it 4-5 days ago. [/s]
(resolved for the moment, see mc4mans post~) [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9870576&postcount=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9870576&postcount=5)

edit: forgot brasero won't write CD's, not iso's or music/data.
errors each attempt.

printer, works perfect in 10.04,
10.10 not at all.

not all updates can be downloaded/installed, 
not surprising tho,  still in beta i guess. 

_______________________________________________________________

 I think thats all ive noticed so far,
 for these past number of days..

Sorry if this thread is "off" and Im "doing it" completely wrong".  lol

  I think Ill play around for another day or two, then work on the bug filing thing.. 

if anyone has any advice on that, 
all is welcome here. lol :)

 Thanks, 

I really do think I will be fully switching to 10.10 after it's released. 
As happy as I am with Lucid, and thought I would not want to "upgrade" to 10.10~  I may do just that,  it's quite niice! :KS
<3

 Great work all. <3 thank you.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-09-20
Scratch sound not working~
Simple restart fixed that issue. lol   :) Niice.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-09-21
Everything is fairly what I expect here, so I will list my main issues I encounter. This is really the 2.6.35 kernel's problems I believe, and not as much Ubuntu/Canonical.

1. Pulseaudio and latest alsa do not like my laptops VIA sound card. Unless I disable glitch free and re-enable tsched=0, audio and as a consequence video stutter intensively. Tsched=0 fixes everything for me.

2. Intel Graphics seem to work great with brightness changing and video playback. However 3d performance is terrible. Also I am unsure if this is intended or not, however when I use a 800x600 (anything but 16:9) it letterboxes instead of stretching. Not sure which way I prefer however it seems intended so it is not exactly a bug.

3. Boot-up has regressed for me, however it might be my own tinkering. It is still fast though.


The scheduler seems to rock though, even running stress I hardly notice a dip in responsiveness. Great job so far team, hopefully this can indeed be a perfect 10

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-09-21
Thanks for adding yours, NwF! :D <3

> Great job so far team, hopefully this can indeed be a perfect 10

 For sure,
and I don't doubt they can do it, at all. . lol :)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-09-21
> trying to open "home" folder, or any other "places" folder,
opens up brasero for some reason, not the folders. 
To resolve (for the moment), r. click on any folder - open with other application - pick Open Folder

Behavior can be seen in ~/.local/share/applications/mimeapps.list on the line
inode/directory=
where the last picked becomes the first listed and set, wrongly, as default.
Only apps picked from the 'open with other application' menu will be moved to front, once they're in the 'open with' menu they'll will remain at their current position

Basically ignored/misinterpreted  bug (2+ months
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/603833](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/603833)

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-09-21
> **mc4man said:**
> To resolve (for the moment), r. click on any folder - open with other application - pick Open Folder

Behavior can be seen in ~/.local/share/applications/mimeapps.list on the line
inode/directory=
where the last picked becomes the first listed and set, wrongly, as default.
Only apps picked from the 'open with other application' menu will be moved to front, once they're in the 'open with' menu they'll will remain at their current position

Basically ignored/misinterpreted  bug (2+ months
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/603833](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/603833)

Hey, good call! thanks alot! 
worked great! :D
much appreciated mate <3

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-09-21
> 
Well, I need to start submitting bugs,
but can;t remember my info to login to launchpad..
So Im going to have to create another i guess? 


As is the case with most of the webistes, you can use the "Forgot your password" page on launchpad and new credentials will be sent to your e-mail address. That too if you remember your e-mail address :-)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-09-21
Because there is no indication this will be directly fixed - to save some time, 
Pick a folder and r. click 'open with other application' using every app you may  want to open a dir. with 
(just keep repeating

Then end with an blah, blah, Open Folder
This will add all the apps (.desktops) to the 'open with' menu and into the line.
Once there they won't be set as default if used from just the 'Open with'
menu

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-09-21
> **sikander3786 said:**
> As is the case with most of the webistes, you can use the "Forgot your password" page on launchpad and new credentials will be sent to your e-mail address. That too if you remember your e-mail address :-)

lol, yea, thanks.

 the real issue is that it is connected to my gmail account,
which i can no longer access. doh!

 ever since i set my gmail up in evolution,
I can't log into it via web/browsermail anymore. 
and stopped using evolution awhile ago.
*another doh!* lol

I do know my password, it just wont accept it anymore, i dunno.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-09-21
> **Rasa1111 said:**
> lol, yea, thanks.

 the real issue is that it is connected to my gmail account,
which i can no longer access. doh!

 ever since i set my gmail up in evolution,
I can't log into it via web/browsermail anymore. 
and stopped using evolution awhile ago.
*another doh!* lol

I do know my password, it just wont accept it anymore, i dunno.
I will call it Gmail/Evolution **FAIL**. Are you sure you didn't change your password for Gmail? I have heard that problem for the first time.

Might be Gmail got bored with your password and decided to change it. :lolflag: Sorry couldn't resist ):P

It'll be better to create a new account on launchpad I understand now :-) instead of resetting your password for Gmail account, and then for the alternate e-mail address you provided during Gmail registration and don't know if you remember that one.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-09-21
mc4man~ good to know man, thanks a lot. :)

sikander~ haha, yeah Im 99.999% sure I didnt change my password. lol

 Gmail getting bored with it and changing..
now that I cannot be positive on!
But it wouldnt really surprise me! lol

 Cool, Ill make a new launchpad account here shortly.   thanks man. 
__________________________________________________________________

 on another good note~

 I noticed last night, that my AWN dock is performing better than it does in Lucid. 

 in 10.04, No matter what i would use as a custom icon, for anything in the AWN dock, 
whenever that app was opened, the icon would return to the original, fugly colored one, and stay that way until the app was closed. 

 Like Chromium for example~ 

I would set the custom icon,  ( nice purple icon)
and it would look fine,
until I opened chromium, then the icon would go back to blue, until I closed chromium again.  ( made for some fugliness in screenshots) :lol:

but in 10.10, nothing of the sort happens now,
the icon stays 'custom', whether the app is open or not! woot! lol :D

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-09-21
Hey! Why not one more good note?!?

 Printer works perfectly now! lol :D

Yesterdays updates seem to have fixed it.
  Beauty! <3


 and yesterday, when trying to maximize a video from any website, it would crash the plugins for it,
but today, all is working great there. :)

 Damn~ I'm almost ready to do a full install on the entire drive if this awesomeness keeps up! :lol:

---

