---
title: "2.6.35 is here now guys!"
date: 2010-06-01
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by paul_in_london on 2010-06-01
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35-rc1-lucid/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35-rc1-lucid/)

---

### Post by zika on 2010-06-01
> **paul_in_london said:**
> [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35-rc1-lucid/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35-rc1-lucid/)O, Yeah! Works nice...

---

### Post by paul_in_london on 2010-06-01
Yeah, my system load averages have stabilised a bit now. Not as good as normal, but it's an improvement (so far)!

---

### Post by xebian on 2010-06-01
Starting with the recent 6.34* and this 35* I need to pass nomodeset otherwise it brings me to a useless/nonresponsive black screen without video signal. Nvidia card.:confused:

---

### Post by gnomeuser on 2010-06-01
I'm looking forward this entering Maverick, .35-rc1 is reported to improve on this long standing IO latency bug.

[https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=12309](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=12309)

Also I hope it will help with the strange overheating issue I am seeing with .34, I don't want to waste time hunting it for .34 since we are aiming to use .35 anyways.

---

### Post by v1ad on 2010-06-01
why after installing the new kernel i still get this?

```
 ~$ uname -r
2.6.32-22-generic 
```

---

### Post by xebian on 2010-06-01
> **v1ad said:**
> why after installing the new kernel i still get this?

```
 ~$ uname -r
2.6.32-22-generic 
```

Installing it doesn't mean it's the one in use.  Look at your grub menu and select the proper kernel.

---

### Post by v1ad on 2010-06-01
i am booting off raid 0 and it does not show in my grub. ill try to add it though.

---

### Post by randyklein99 on 2010-06-01
> **v1ad said:**
> why after installing the new kernel i still get this?

```
 ~$ uname -r
2.6.32-22-generic 
```

My guess is that you didn't choose the new kernel in the grub menu during reboot.

---

### Post by v1ad on 2010-06-01
it didn't add itself to the grub menu so i did it manually and updated it.
all is great now.

```
 esktop:~$ uname -r
2.6.35-020635rc1-generic

```

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-06-01
Maybe acting like old kernel upgrades (years ago) where you had to choose maintainers version of a config file in order to update grub to include new kernel? this option would appear while installing new kernel.

I'm guessing this is not the problem though.

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2010-06-01
```
:~/Desktop$ uname -r
2.6.35-020635rc1-generic

```

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-06-01
> **v1ad said:**
> it didn't add itself to the grub menu so i did it manually and updated it.
all is great now.

```
 esktop:~$ uname -r
2.6.35-020635rc1-generic

```
This is another good reason to use a custom menu with "symbolic" menu entries.  You should try it.  They just boot the latest kernel in the partition designated.

Just edit this to fit your box and put it in your 40_custom file and then when you save it save as 06 custom and it will be at the top of your menu;
```

echo "Adding ISO-test on sda13" >&2 
cat << EOF
menuentry "ISO-test on sda13" {
    set root=(hd0,13)
        linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda13 ro quiet
        initrd /initrd.img
}
EOF

```

---

### Post by v1ad on 2010-06-02
would be nice but i have the older grub with menu.lst hard to change to me hours to make it work with raid 0, so is it really worth updating?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-06-02
> **v1ad said:**
> would be nice but i have the older grub with menu.lst hard to change to me hours to make it work with raid 0, so is it really worth updating?
That is up to you.  You do need to consider that grub-legacy is not supported by the grub folks anymore.  Sometime you will have to.

All I can say is that I have all the menu generating scrips disabled and only use the custom menu and that once set up it is maintainance free.  I can even install another Debian based OS on a partition and not have to do a thing to the menu for that partition.

Check the link in my sig.  It is not in depth.  It is written for simple minded people like me.

---

### Post by vikrant82 on 2010-06-02
It gave me trouble compiling my ever painful broadcom driver, but with a bit of commenting hack, I was able to do it.

Interestingly, on a system start, on this kernel(2.6.35) I have around 168 processes running, where as on 2.6.34.5.12, on same system (everything same) at system start I have around 138 processes running. However, starting memory is same. Time to run for office, will report in evening.

---

### Post by TerminX on 2010-06-02
Are the problems with 2.6.35 shown at [http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_2635_fail](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_2635_fail) fixed yet?  If not, I would stay away...

---

### Post by eyelessfade on 2010-06-02
> **v1ad said:**
> would be nice but i have the older grub with menu.lst hard to change to me hours to make it work with raid 0, so is it really worth updating?

When you install grub2 it asks you if you want to keep grub1 and daisy chain into grub2. Say yes and you have a fallback if it don't work out :)

Also: bios -> grub1 with a new grub2 option -> grub2 -> os

---

### Post by moviemaniac on 2010-06-02
> **TerminX said:**
> Are the problems with 2.6.35 shown at [http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_2635_fail](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_2635_fail) fixed yet?  If not, I would stay away...
I'm in the process of checking these problems out for myself. Running benchmarks now then I'll compile .35-rc1 and bench again. Phoronix uses somewhat tricky hardware for these kernel-benchmarks so I want to see this for myself. If the problem were indeed that huge we would've seen some action/complaints on LKML by now.

---

### Post by ruik on 2010-06-02
> **moviemaniac said:**
> I'm in the process of checking these problems out for myself. Running benchmarks now then I'll compile .35-rc1 and bench again. Phoronix uses somewhat tricky hardware for these kernel-benchmarks so I want to see this for myself. If the problem were indeed that huge we would've seen some action/complaints on LKML by now.

Let us know how it went when you're done!

---

### Post by xir_ on 2010-06-02
> **TerminX said:**
> Are the problems with 2.6.35 shown at [http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_2635_fail](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_2635_fail) fixed yet?  If not, I would stay away...

That was a particularly bad article from phronix, they were moaning about a development snapshot not working as fast as a final release.

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2010-06-02
> Are the problems with 2.6.35 shown at [http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?pag...inux_2635_fail](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?pag...inux_2635_fail) fixed yet?

> On Monday night the kernel developers were informed of the problem. There is some speculation as to the root cause, which might have already been fixed.

[http://www.h-online.com/open/features/Kernel-Log-Linux-2-6-35-taking-shape-1012850.html](http://www.h-online.com/open/features/Kernel-Log-Linux-2-6-35-taking-shape-1012850.html)

---

### Post by moviemaniac on 2010-06-02
Well, I've now compiled .35-rc1 and tested it against the drm-radeon-testing tree from the 21st of May (based on 2.6.34-rc6, it was my standard kernel the past days and not much different (except for the drm-stuff) from the .34 final).
I've used both real-world (zipping, video-playback, compiling...) as well as synthetic benchmarks (using my preferred LinuxUser Benchmark Suite 2.1.1) and have found .35-rc1 to generally be slightly ahead (2-3%) of .34-rc6 in most cases. The cases where it regressed (bonnie++) were nearly non-detectable and within the error-range of benchmarking a running machine with background-processes.

I'm not saying this'll apply for all machines but judging from my testing I can say don't let the Phoronix article put you off testing this kernel - I'm staying with it until rc2 is out :D

---

### Post by null_pointer_us on 2010-06-02
2.6.35-020635rc1 seemed to be missing built-in rt2x00 drivers. They did not show in lsmod and could not be modprobe'd. I tried manually modprobe-ing the old rt2860sta driver, but it has same issues as in 2.6.32/34 Lucid/Maverick kernels.

Installing compat-wireless-2010-05-31 failed during compile with tons of error messages about missing files and duplicate symbols though I suppose that's normal given all the new code.

So no wireless and no Internet for me. Maybe I'll check out rc2 when it's out.

The missing rt2x00 drivers bothers me though. Are these mainline ppa kernels configured the same way as the Maverick 2.6.35 packages will be delivered through the repos.? If not, then maybe I should skip the mainline ppa packages and wait for "the real thing."

---

### Post by moviemaniac on 2010-06-02
rt2x00 definitely is included upstream - I'd compile the kernel myself in your case (and I recommend anyone to do so anyway).

---

### Post by vikrant82 on 2010-06-02
> 168 processes running, where as on 2.6.34.5.12, on same system (everything same) at system start I have around 138 processes running.

Nope, Its fine. Should have been one-off case.

---

### Post by Shining Arcanine on 2010-06-02
> **TerminX said:**
> Are the problems with 2.6.35 shown at [http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_2635_fail](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_2635_fail) fixed yet?  If not, I would stay away...

As far as I know, they have not been fixed. It would be a good idea to avoid the 2.6.35 RC1 kernel.

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-06-02
> **Shining Arcanine said:**
> As far as I know, they have not been fixed. It would be a good idea to avoid the 2.6.35 RC1 kernel.

If you'd actually read the thread before replying, you'd now that they have been fixed.

---

### Post by vrkalak on 2010-06-02
I just upgraded my Debian 'testing' -Xfce install from 2.6.32-5 amd-64 ... to the new **Liquorix 2.6.34-39_amd-64** Kernel.

The download and install went smoothly.
I just had to make sure to install the 2 Images and the Header in the correct order.
Followed the directions from the OP in this thread ... no problems.

The re-boot was unremarkable ... and slightly faster.
Opened a Terminal and checked that, indeed, the new Kernel was there ... [IMG]http://forums.linuxmint.com/images/smilies/icon_biggrin.gif[/IMG]
Internet connection works great.  

Seems to be 'all systems go'

I'll let you know if I notice a marked performance upgrade.

And I also, added the 'Main and Future' Kernel repositories to my sources.list.
The 2.6.35 Kernel is on the 'horizon'  :P

---

### Post by nanog on 2010-06-02
>  you'd now that they have been fixed.
i don't seen any evidence that the performance regression has been fixed. for example, it could be that the bug is related to a particular driver stack that the tester above did not have enabled.

---

### Post by moviemaniac on 2010-06-03
> **nanog said:**
> i don't seen any evidence that the performance regression has been fixed. for example, it could be that the bug is related to a particular driver stack that the tester above did not have enabled.
2.6.35-rc1 is runing on my main machine flawlessly. No regressions noticeable. Same goes for four other machines I compiled the kernel on yesterday. That's all I can say. Of course, it might be my kernel configs or Phoronix's configs or whatever, all I can say is that I can't reproduce Phoronix's findings on my machines. All I can say is: Check for yourself, if you don't like it, switch back to an oler kernel.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-06-03
> **moviemaniac said:**
> 2.6.35-rc1 is runing on my main machine flawlessly. No regressions noticeable. Same goes for four other machines I compiled the kernel on yesterday. That's all I can say. Of course, it might be my kernel configs or Phoronix's configs or whatever, all I can say is that I can't reproduce Phoronix's findings on my machines. All I can say is: Check for yourself, if you don't like it, switch back to an oler kernel.
Good Gods man what are trying to do?  That sounds like the voice of reason.  Not only that but a good approach to scientific research as in observe for your self.

You need to moderate this behavior.  It could be contagious.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-06-03
Well whatever the problem, it's been fixed on phoronix test platforms.
[The Big Linux 2.6.35 Kernel Problem Is Fixed](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=ODMxNQ)

---

### Post by diebels on 2010-06-03
> **gnomeuser said:**
> I'm looking forward this entering Maverick, .35-rc1 is reported to improve on this long standing IO latency bug.

[https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=12309](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=12309)
I was under the impression this was fixed in 2.6.32

---

### Post by v1ad on 2010-06-04
some major issues with ndiswrapper, but that is for them to decide.
couldnt compile or install ndiswrapper, and alsa upgrade. with this newer kernel. left in on this computer reverted on the previous.

---

### Post by Melcar on 2010-06-04
Causes black screen on boot for me.  Laptop with a RS480.  Boots fine if I disable DRI.  Crap, time to get dirty I guess.

---

### Post by PGHammer on 2010-06-04
> **Melcar said:**
> Causes black screen on boot for me.  Laptop with a RS480.  Boots fine if I disable DRI.  Crap, time to get dirty I guess.

*I'm running the -35RC1 kernel here too (straight swap in Maverick a1).  No other changes codewise.  Performance is a little snappier in terms of I/O; otherwise, things are fine.*

---

### Post by plun on 2010-06-04
I have been running this kernel on my testpartition and it works just fine.

Samsung I3 and nVidia 330.  (and xorg-edgers ppa)

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-06-04
Checking in, runs great here. :P

---

### Post by SoFl W on 2010-06-04
Alright, just did an update with the update manager.  I believe a new entry appeared in the boot menu but it wasn't 2.6.35.  Here is what I get.  I am still using Studio 9.10 (64) if that makes a difference.

```
NAME@NAME-Udesktop:~$ uname -a
Linux NAME-Udesktop 2.6.31-22-generic #60-Ubuntu SMP Thu May 27 02:41:03 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

NAME@NAME-Udesktop:~$ sudo update-grub
[sudo] password for NAME: 
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-22-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-22-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-21-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-21-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-20-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-20-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Microsoft Windows XP Professional on /dev/sda2
done

```

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2010-06-04
> **SoFl W said:**
> Alright, just did an update with the update manager.  I believe a new entry appeared in the boot menu but it wasn't 2.6.35.  Here is what I get.  I am still using Studio 9.10 (64) if that makes a difference.

```
NAME@NAME-Udesktop:~$ uname -a
Linux NAME-Udesktop 2.6.31-22-generic #60-Ubuntu SMP Thu May 27 02:41:03 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

NAME@NAME-Udesktop:~$ sudo update-grub
[sudo] password for NAME: 
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-22-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-22-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-21-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-21-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-20-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-20-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Microsoft Windows XP Professional on /dev/sda2
done

```

you need to go to the first post and click the link to download the kernel and modules

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-06-04
> **SoFl W said:**
> Studio 9.10 (64) if that makes a difference.


We are testing 10.10. That's why we have this kernel.

---

### Post by SoFl W on 2010-06-04
> **wojox said:**
> We are testing 10.10. That's why we have this kernel.

Thanks, I didn't look to see that this was the development forum.  I was getting really confused because my laptop also updated but they have two different kernels.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-06-04
> **SoFl W said:**
> Thanks, I didn't look to see that this was the development forum.  I was getting really confused because my laptop also updated but they have two different kernels.

SoFlo W isn't South West Florida is it?

---

### Post by jppr on 2010-06-05
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux/2.6.35-1.1](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux/2.6.35-1.1)

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2010-06-05
Do you guys know how I can get the whole Ubuntu changes to the kernel (preferable split up in single patches)?

---

### Post by plun on 2010-06-05
> **MacUntu said:**
> Do you guys know how I can get the whole Ubuntu changes to the kernel (preferable split up in single patches)?

No I don't know but you can see all patches within Ubuntu kernel Git

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=ubuntu/ubuntu-maverick.git;a=summary](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=ubuntu/ubuntu-maverick.git;a=summary)

Up in "the higher division" to remove patches and compile a new kernel...:)

---

### Post by amano on 2010-06-05
> **diebels said:**
> I was under the impression this was fixed in 2.6.32


Come on. Stop the FUD. This regressed within the 2.6.35 merge window und was fixed within it. There is NO POSSIBILITY to have been fixed for 2.6.32 then. Stop spreading FUD!!!

---

### Post by xir_ on 2010-06-05
> **amano said:**
> Come on. Stop the FUD. This regressed within the 2.6.35 merge window und was fixed within it. There is NO POSSIBILITY to have been fixed for 2.6.32 then. Stop spreading FUD!!!

i think that this was a bit over the top as a response. It was most likely a misunderstanding.


I'd be interested in hearing from ATI users as to how their power saving is doing with this kernel. Especially seeing as it has new voltage regulation now included in the open driver. 

A powertop example or two would be good. (i plan to test myself in the near future).

---

### Post by plun on 2010-06-05
> **jppr said:**
> [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux/2.6.35-1.1](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux/2.6.35-1.1)

Up and running.....:)

```
plun@plun-laptop:~$ uname -a
Linux plun-laptop 2.6.35-1-generic #1-Ubuntu SMP Sat Jun 5 08:59:53 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

```

Synaptic install for the moment, search for linux-image and linux-headers


--

---

### Post by screaminj3sus on 2010-06-05
> **xir_ said:**
> i think that this was a bit over the top as a response. It was most likely a misunderstanding.


I'd be interested in hearing from ATI users as to how their power saving is doing with this kernel. Especially seeing as it has new voltage regulation now included in the open driver. 

A powertop example or two would be good. (i plan to test myself in the near future).

same, I've switched back to fglrx :( in lucid because power management just wasnt working well enough.

---

### Post by Starks on 2010-06-05
2.6.35-1.1 is only booting 50% of the time for me.

---

### Post by v1ad on 2010-06-06
boots way faster 4 me.

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2010-06-06
Hmm.... about 4 dozen updates for the i915 driver.

Considering it performs poorly in 2.6.32, I'm hoping for better results this time round. :)

---

### Post by plun on 2010-06-06
> **ibuclaw said:**
> Hmm.... about 4 dozen updates for the i915 driver.

Considering it performs poorly in 2.6.32, I'm hoping for better results this time round. :)

Well add xorg-edgers and be a happy user...:)

[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)

--------------
Correcxtion !

2.6.35 was installed from Ricotz unstable ppa for me not from Mavericks archive.

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2010-06-06
> **plun said:**
> Well add xorg-edgers and be a happy user...:)

[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)

--------------
Correcxtion !

2.6.35 was installed from Ricotz unstable ppa for me not from Mavericks archive.

Well, I don't have a powerful graphics chip on my netbook (Intel 945GME). So I think I'll skip that ppa. ;)

---

### Post by xebian on 2010-06-06
Problem with my tv tuner so staying with 34 for now. Both compiled with the same .config.

---

### Post by plun on 2010-06-06
RC2 is out

Linus message:
[http://lkml.org/lkml/2010/6/6/3](http://lkml.org/lkml/2010/6/6/3)

Ubuntu Mainline, crashed build for the moment
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35-rc2-maverick/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35-rc2-maverick/)

---

### Post by paul_in_london on 2010-06-06
> **plun said:**
> RC2 is out

Linus message:
[http://lkml.org/lkml/2010/6/6/3](http://lkml.org/lkml/2010/6/6/3)

Ubuntu Mainline, crashed build for the moment
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35-rc2-maverick/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35-rc2-maverick/)

Been keeping an eye on that - we haven't had a complete set of debs for a couple of days :(

---

### Post by zika on 2010-06-06
> **paul_in_london said:**
> Been keeping an eye on that - we haven't had a complete set of debs for a couple of days :(
Aren't we supposed to use them as an update. I do just that, keep yesterday's and just replace the old one with the new (existing) one... And, it works... (Of course, I'm talking about daily (-999))

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2010-06-06
Well, testing it out, and the Intel driver seems better...


Mutter is still consuming up too much CPU usage (which probably suggests that it may not be driver issue afterall). And the kernel scheduler is still causing a high number of wakeups.

---

### Post by paul_in_london on 2010-06-06
> **zika said:**
> Aren't we supposed to use them as an update. I do just that, keep yesterday's and just replace the old one with the new (existing) one... And, it works... (Of course, I'm talking about daily (-999))

I wasn't sure actually. I thought I would need all 4 debs (2 x _i386.deb in my case and 2x_all.deb), but as you suggested I just installed the latest _all.debs for 2.6.35-999 and it didn't do any harm. Thanks.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-06-06
> **ibuclaw said:**
> Hmm.... about 4 dozen updates for the i915 driver.

Considering it performs poorly in 2.6.32, I'm hoping for better results this time round. :)

The i915 driver only cover i915 chipset, or does it cover all chipsets in xserver-xorg-video-intel (so it covers any i810, i815, i830, i845, i855, i865, i915, i945 and i965 series chips)?

I asked at phoronix, but the reply didn't sound convincing.

I have i965 and i945. Were they improved?

---

### Post by Catharsis on 2010-06-06
> **andrewabc said:**
> The i915 driver only cover i915 chipset, or does it cover all chipsets in xserver-xorg-video-intel (so it covers any i810, i815, i830, i845, i855, i865, i915, i945 and i965 series chips)?

I asked at phoronix, but the reply didn't sound convincing.

I have i965 and i945. Were they improved?

i915 is the name of the intel kernel module/driver (it's called '[drm](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Direct_Rendering_Manager)'). For more proof, check 'lspci -vv' and check the 'VGA' line; it should say something like:
```
Kernel driver in use: i915
Kernel modules: i915
```
And something like this should also be in your dmesg:
```
[drm] Initialized i915 1.6.0 20080730 for 0000:00:02.0 on minor 0
```

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-06-07
> **Catharsis said:**
> i915 is the name of the intel kernel module/driver (it's called '[drm](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Direct_Rendering_Manager)'). For more proof, check 'lspci -vv' and check the 'VGA' line; it should say something like:
```
Kernel driver in use: i915
Kernel modules: i915
```
And something like this should also be in your dmesg:
```
[drm] Initialized i915 1.6.0 20080730 for 0000:00:02.0 on minor 0
```

lspci -vv
	Kernel driver in use: i915

	Kernel modules: i915

I type in dmesg and get lots
> [   80.525051] serial8250: too much work for irq18

This shows on shutdown as well I think.
So can't confirm that (since it gets cut off at top too much text).
I'm on ubuntu 9.10.

Glad to see work is still being down for my video cards. :D

---

### Post by _khAttAm_ on 2010-06-07
It is not in the repos and I've installed it now. Lets see how things go after the reboot.

---

### Post by pferraro on 2010-06-07
> **ibuclaw said:**
> Well, testing it out, and the Intel driver seems better...


Mutter is still consuming up too much CPU usage (which probably suggests that it may not be driver issue afterall). And the kernel scheduler is still causing a high number of wakeups.

I'd be curious how mutter performs using the latest clutter snapshot (1.3.2), which promises some long awaited performance improvements.  Anyone try this yet?  It would be nice to see this in a maverick build on ppa:ricotz/testing (hint, hint...)

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2010-06-07
> **pferraro said:**
> I'd be curious how mutter performs using the latest clutter snapshot (1.3.2), which promises some long awaited performance improvements.  Anyone try this yet?  It would be nice to see this in a maverick build on ppa:ricotz/testing (hint, hint...)

Testing on Maverick's mutter, and it appears snappier (and top reports it mostly idle).

However, there can never be too much of a good thing. And it seems that the window management (in unity, at least) has gone down the pot. It seems mutter wrongfully detects the edge of the screen and maximises windows in weird places. :)

---

### Post by null_pointer_us on 2010-06-09
:guitar:

2.6.35-1 is the first maverick repo kernel with working wireless support for my RT2860 PCI card. This is without compiling any drivers like Ralink's driver or the compat-wireless backported RT2x00 drivers. I left the  rt2860sta driver module blacklisted, FWIW.

(2.6.34 and 2.6.32 could not associate with my access point.)

Only problem with the otherwise-working 2.6.35-1:

```
[   22.341862] phy0 -> rt2x00pci_regbusy_read: Error - Indirect register access failed: offset=0x00007010, value=0xffffffff
[   22.342394] phy0 -> rt2x00pci_regbusy_read: Error - Indirect register access failed: offset=0x00007010, value=0xffffffff
[   22.342899] phy0 -> rt2x00pci_regbusy_read: Error - Indirect register access failed: offset=0x00007010, value=0xffffffff
[   22.363072] phy0 -> rt2800pci_mcu_status: Error - MCU request failed, no response from hardware
```

I will have to research this one a bit.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-06-09
I installed 
linux-image-2.6.35-020635rc1-generic_2.6.35-020635rc1_amd64.deb
and it went fine, but when I went to install 
Linux-headers-2.6.35-020635rc1-generic_2.6.35-020635rc1_amd64.deb
It gave dependency errors. 

Am I doing something wrong?

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-06-09
Nevermind! I installed the Linux-Headers...all.deb first and then the 

Linux-headers-2.6.35-020635rc1-generic_2.6.35-020635rc1_amd64.deb

and it took it. 
Rebooting now...

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-06-09
Sweet!

```
sudo uname -a 
Linux cavsfan-desktop 2.6.35-020635rc1-generic #020635rc1 SMP Tue Jun 1 17:27:30 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux
```

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2010-06-09
Had some oopses and system crashes with the Ubuntu kernel (wireless networking involved) but not with my tailored/minimal -rc1. Maybe it's again a problem with FTRACE (that caused stinky problems with iwl3945 some time ago)?

---

### Post by plun on 2010-06-12
RC3 is available from Ubuntu Mainline

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35-rc3-maverick/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35-rc3-maverick/)

Linus message:
[http://lkml.org/lkml/2010/6/11/420](http://lkml.org/lkml/2010/6/11/420)


--

---

### Post by xebian on 2010-06-12
I remember Linus saying in rc2 that there was a lot of DVB changes.  So far I could not get 35 to play my TV tuner.  Any ideas?  TIA

---

### Post by Nr90 on 2010-06-12
Just installed 10.10 alpha 1 and updated everything.
Runs much faster even on my old laptop.

So happy with the working intel drivers!

My first time trying to contribute anything to an OS :D

---

