---
title: "10.10 ... What will I loose?"
date: 2010-09-03
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by GaryTheCat on 2010-09-03
I'm just wondering what's going to happen if I upgrade to 10.10 when it's released upon the world.

My main question is what (if any) settings will I loose in the upgrade?

I'm still a bit of a noob as 10.04 was my first install and I've not been through the upgrade cycle before.

TIA

G

---

### Post by kevinatkins on 2010-09-03
You shouldn't lose anything. That said, it's always wise to backup your data before committing to a big update such as going to the next release..

I would suggest waiting until maybe a month or so after 10.10 is released, to allow time for any wrinkles to be ironed out.

I've done upgrades on a few occasions and they generally work well, unless there are any drastic changes from one version to the next, but in the case of 10.04 -> 10.10 there doesn't appear to be anything fundamental...

---

### Post by tyblogger5 on 2010-09-03
Hi Gary,

There are three ways to get 10.10:

[LIST=1]
[*]**Use the Update Manager and Internet Connection**

When you upgrade using the Update Manager it will let you know that a new distribution (10.10) is available.  When you click on "Upgrade" it will download all of the required files from the internet and it will be upgraded when you restart your PC.


[*]**Use the Update Manager and Install Disc**

If you already have a Install Disc for 10.10, you can just add the disc as a repository and it will update from there through the Update Manager.  ( [Here is a link for adding repos.]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories/Ubuntu#Adding Repositories in Ubuntu"))


[*]**Reinstall using the Disc (DOES NOT PRESERVE SETTINGS/FILES**)

This last one is equivalent to a "system wipe", it will reformat your hard drive and allows you to start from scratch.  To do this, just follow the steps that you used to install 10.04.
[/LIST]

That's about it, let me know if you need any more help,
Tariq

---

### Post by ayenack on 2010-09-03
I haven't done an upgrade for a long time so things may have changed.

I generally do fresh installs of each new LTS Ubuntu. 

What I've found is that if you have custom applications installed (those not in the repo's) then there can be problems as the upgrade will not support anything that's not in the repo's as far as I know.

Also it used to be the case that if you had a custom desktop settings they'd be trashed also if you have set up a custom desktop that will most likely be broken also. I would presume that this still applies.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-09-03
A clean install is always better. 10.10 also offers the brtfs for a file format, which some are raving about. (I do not know the pros and cons of the file system.)

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-09-03
You are on 10.04 LTS.  This is a Long Term Service release.  That means, on your desktop edition, that you have full support for 3 years.  The next LTS is due to be 12.04 (2012).

10.10 is a regular release.  You get 1.5 years of support on your desktop.

I would say that you should stick with 10.04 for a while and learn to use it.

You are probably installed on one partition with swap.  You give no details on your box so we have no idea what else may be on it (Mac, MS, BSD,etc).  If all you have is 10.04 on a nice roomy drive I would dual boot with 10.10.

You could do that with an external or maybe another internal, once again we know nothing of your machine.

With a good solid LTS and an install of 10.10 you could have 10.04 set up for maximum security for online business and use it for your day to day tasks.

10.10 you could install on 2 partitions / (root) and /home.  You could do all your experimenting and playing on it.  That /home partition gives you more security for your data in case you need to reinstall (back up still a good idea).

The main priority in the development of 10.10 is mobile devices.  There is not really a whole lot of change as far as the desktop installation goes.  There really is no need to upgrade just because Ubuntu releases another version.

I spend, it is true, most of my time on testing OS'.  My main, stable, secure OS is still Ubuntu 8.04 LTS.  Boring but solid and supported until the end of April next year.  I see no reason for me to upgrade it to 10.04 for quite a while (you can upgrade LTS to LTS - quite a feat from 8.04 to 10.04 - a LOT of changes).

I will be upgrading 8.04 by having a clean install from a Disk and tranferring my files.

---

### Post by GaryTheCat on 2010-09-04
Excuse my general levels of ignorance (something I appear to have in abundance lol).

What Ranch Hand says makes perfect sense to me - but if I wanted to 'fiddle' with 10.10 - could I do it in virtualbox?

---

### Post by glaze on 2010-09-04
> **GaryTheCat said:**
> 
What Ranch Hand says makes perfect sense to me - but if I wanted to 'fiddle' with 10.10 - could I do it in virtualbox?

You can run it in VirtualBox, but if you just want to test it I suggest running the live CD.

---

### Post by GaryTheCat on 2010-09-04
Thanks glaze - don't know why the live cd option didn't occur to me :os

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-09-04
> **GaryTheCat said:**
> Thanks glaze - don't know why the live cd option didn't occur to me :os

Consider a LIVE USB stick, the benefit being that you can install applications and settings and have them stick. (and your CD drive remains free for use)

Using the Startup Disk Creator in your current setup, point it to your 10.10 iso, and set some reserved extra space. And enjoy :)

---

### Post by tyblogger5 on 2010-09-04
I think howefield is right, create a LIVE USB to run the OS on for a while until you feel comfortable enough to install it.  You might also want to get a hard drive (I have a 250GB computer with a 500GB external drive) to back up on.  One program to do that (especially if you have a multi-boot PC) is [Clonezilla]("http://www.clonezilla.org/").  I recommend using this program to take a image of your machine before installing anything!

Hope this helps,
Tariq

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2010-09-04
The question you have to ask is what you will gain .........

Is your Graphics Card working ok ?
Is your Sound working ?
Do you have a Graphics Tablet you need to use ?
Do you need the latest version for touchscreen ?
Do you have 64 bit and will this release fix any issues you may have ?
Do you need to use a Wifi Dongle in it ?
How old is your computer will it use the latest upgrades to make it better ........

The thing is to try it on a CD ......... if there are definite benefits then you may then have a big smile on your face.

( If you dual boot though the tryout on CD does not let you know if the GRUB is going to be ok after you do install it ...... the main things I have noticed ... BOOT UP and GRAPHICS .. can be the show stoppers )

The problem I see is some people see the word UPGRADE and it gives people the sense that its got to be better ....... 

My friend is a Bouncer ...... 
He throws people out of Night Clubs late on a night when they are drunk .......

I always imagine I am telling him the best way to go .......... with altering his computer .......

Because if I get it wrong I get a thick ear ....... and he gets a non functioning laptop or PC .......

Both of us loose out .......

Depending on your level of skill repairing it if things should go wrong ....... is where you have to make
the decision is it worth it at the moment ........ 36 days to go to see how happy people are with it.

_________________________________________________

My view on things ....... for my Acer Aspire 7730ZG
( I now run a version of maverick that boots faster and works faster than any system previously installed  I also know through going through this development phase which kernel was best for my computer and which Graphics driver runs the best too ....... )

__________________________________________________

Conclusion .......

You can often tell a lot from the types of questions that come from users with a similar set up to your own
either in past threads here on wait and see on release day ....... depends if you can wait another month or not . ( but always BACKUP - BACKUP - BACKUP ..... USB hard drives are cheap now ..... replacing DATA and lost photos are not so easy to replace if things should go very very wrong )

Best of luck with whatever decision you should make ...... we all  learn even if things do go wrong ......

---

### Post by ktp on 2010-09-04
> **GaryTheCat said:**
> Thanks glaze - don't know why the live cd option didn't occur to me :os

there is also usb option if you have one with some space on it.  I was for time running everything from usb...like portable drive/os.

---

### Post by GaryTheCat on 2010-09-04
I've put the meerkat iso onto a usb stick and when I boot from it, it only gives me the option to install it - any idea what I'm doing wrong?

---

### Post by qamelian on 2010-09-04
> **uRock said:**
> A clean install is always better. 10.10 also offers the brtfs for a file format, which some are raving about. (I do not know the pros and cons of the file system.)

I wish people would stop saying that because it isn't always true. A clean install has been impossible for me on two different releases. Both Intrepid and Lucid refused to install on my laptop from CD and could only be installed by upgrading from the previous release. Installing from CD left me with an unbootable system in Intrepid and one that would boot and freeze immediately becoming unusable in Lucid. 

A clean install is *not* always better.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-09-04
> **qamelian said:**
> I wish people would stop saying that because it isn't always true. A clean install has been impossible for me on two different releases. Both Intrepid and Lucid refused to install on my laptop from CD and could only be installed by upgrading from the previous release. Installing from CD left me with an unbootable system in Intrepid and one that would boot and freeze immediately becoming unusable in Lucid. 

A clean install is *not* always better.
There is a first time for everything. I have never heard of this. All I ever see is the million and one threads about systems being broken during upgrading.

I have also never heard of someone changing files systems while upgrading.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-09-04
If done properly, an upgrade will work just as well as a clean install, I would venture to say that most of the failed upgrades are due to operator problems.

---

