---
title: "10.04 &gt; 10.10. Upgrade vs. reinstall"
date: 2010-10-06
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by ^_Pepe_^ on 2010-10-06
Hi all,

I have 3 Ubuntu boxes to upgrade from 10.04 to 10.10. I've sucesfully upgraded the netbook flawlessly, but mainly my home server and my professional laptop are going to wait to final version as usual.

I always have same doubts about benefits of reinstall vs upgrade, and there're lots of blogs out there with from-scratch-reinstallation advice. From 7.10 to 10.04, I've been reinstalling most of times. But...

But it's always based on not clear ideas. 

Let's see: Both machines, are 100% functional, and working perfectly. Server has lots of software (ftp server, nomachine server, sftp, ssh, virtual machines, blablabla...), working, that I don't want to reinstall and re-configure. I know, there's AptOnCD but there's work there.

I want my machines as fast and reliable as possible, but I don't want to reinstall (and therefore spend a couple of evenings...) based on myths.

I always try to think in kernel as a box, and new kernel is going to work isolated regarding the old ones. The same with my /home filesystems. New upgrade is not going to change much things there.

So, is there any reason to think that a reinstalled 10.10 machine is going to be faster than a 10.04 to 10.10 upgraded?

Thanks in advance.
^_Pepe_^

---

### Post by 23meg on 2010-10-06
[QUOTE=^_Pepe_^]So, is there any reason to think that a reinstalled 10.10 machine is going to be faster than a 10.04 to 10.10 upgraded?[/QUOTE]

None whatsoever. As you suspect, the notion that a clean install is going to be faster or safer than an upgrade is a myth.  

The "faster" part is mostly placebo effect rooted in the feeling associated with each option: the clean install, being "clean" and unmodified, gives a sense of a fresh start, whereas the upgrade involves the release upgrader performing modifications on an already used installation. And "safer" is mostly people citing anecdotal evidence either due to badly maintained and heavily modified installations causing problems in upgrades, or a holdover from bad experiences with very early Ubuntu versions where upgrades were not as extensively tested as they are now, and unofficial installation scripts and the like that were problematic with upgrades were more common.

There are cases where a clean install is preferable (you'll see those covered in [one of the sticky threads]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1500648") here), but those are the exceptions, not the norm. Given that your system is not badly maintained and already essentially broken, and you've read the release notes and have determined that there are no upgrade-specific issues that apply to your configuration, an upgrade should be perfectly fine.

---

### Post by cprofitt on 2010-10-06
In every case, but 10.04 -> 10.10, I have had success with an in place upgrade.  My Nvidia laptop had some minor issues with the upgrade and doing a fresh install resolved some of them. None of the issues were show stoppers though.  My ATI machine had no issues.

---

### Post by ^_Pepe_^ on 2010-10-06
Thank you all for advice.

I'll go for upgrade.

There's an issue to have in mind, to encourage the reinstallation idea. 

If upgrade goes wrong, and you don't have enough skills, probably you'll get an unusable system. A reinstallation will give you TWO usable systems, to be selected by GRUB.

Anyway, I keep my thesis alive. 

Upgrade.

Thanks again!
^_Pepe_^

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2010-10-06
My 2 cents.

Netbook, good call most of the major changes were directed towards netbooks/mobile platforms.

Professional Laptop, Personal preference, but I don't see that much of a difference to justify moving off of LTS for my everyday runner. If there is something that is needed or a great enhancement for you, make backups and go for it.

Server, Why bother, it's LTS if you installed the "true server" you have five years of support to look forward to, three at least . Is it worth the small chance that things might go wrong to jepordize all your time and hard work? What has been enhanced with the server release to be worth the time and effort to upgrade right now?

Upgrade or fresh install... personal call.
Whatever, Make Backups!

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-10-06
+1 on the server with LTS. What's the point of upgrading it to 10.10 anyway? If it is running flawlessly are there components within the new version that are genuine, productive upgrades your server will truly benefit from? With such a long support time for 10.04 server I would agree that upgrading is likely to cause more problems than benefits created, plus you drop off support time and end up having to reinstall again with another version long before that 5 year period on 10.04 runs out. (I'm thinking potential breakage later even if this upgrade goes fine).
 
The others...upgrading or reinstalling...same speed because it's the same software and configuration. If you haven't installed a lot from outside the repos you will likely have fewer problems than someone who has installed from source or .debs outside the repos.

---

### Post by florus on 2010-10-06
I have upgraded for the past few releases, but always have an installation disk as a safety precaution.

---

### Post by kumaryu on 2010-10-06
If you have a working system and its critical to your business or livelihood, don't upgrade at all. Stick to Lucid (or other LTS releases). Over time, the accumulation of user generated know-how and fixes would make it a stable and safe platform (when things go wrong). 

Consider upgrading some months after the release of next LTS. There's no reason to have matching versions across your server, laptop and netbook.

Use the least critical machine to experiment with the latest releases. Upgrade appears to have become reasonably predictable  these days so an upgrade may be a time saver. As a method of clearing accumulated baggage, both real and imagined, I might choose to re-install however.

---

### Post by ^_Pepe_^ on 2010-10-06
Regarding the 'server'. I like to call it in that way, but it's an old HTPC, very quiet, fresh, and low-watt AMDx2. It actually has a 10.04 desktop edition, (server edition it's too much for a normal user, I guess). It's not only my home server (ftp, nas, torrent, UPnP, nxserver, ssh, backups, media) but also an emergency desktop, when all laptops at home are busy. 

Regarding the upgrade compulsivity of linux users...well, a big +1 for me. I always want to get the cutting edge version...but I'm considering to let my home server in 10.04 for a while.

Thanks again
^_Pepe_^

---

### Post by xebian on 2010-10-06
It all depends on your situation.  There is no simple and hard answers.  A case in point is if you have KDE, upgrading takes as much time as a reinstall plus all the reconfiguration after makes a fresh install better.  And there has been a lot of changes in the KDE world vs Gnome.

---

### Post by WorLord on 2010-10-06
I'm going to break ranks here and say: in the face of a "dirty install," upgrading is simply **not worth it**.

A "dirty install," as I call it, is a concept that, from what I can tell, is the best of both worlds, but very little known.  Here's how I do one, assuming I have two partitions on my hard drive - swap and / (ext4):

(Prereq: back up anything in /etc, /usr, /boot, or any other system directory that you might want to keep.  Like Apache configurations.)

1. Boot from installation media
2. Answer all questions as if I were planning a fresh, clean install of the product
3. At the partitioning stage, select "Manual".  
4. Pick old swap partition, and use it as "swap".
5. Pick old / partition, set it to be this install's /, and UNCHECK THE "FORMAT" CHECKBOX.  This is key.
6. When the installer asks for the default user, re-create the user you had with the same login name (this is also key).

The installer will warn you that some directories (/etc, /usr, /bin, /var, /tmp, and other system directories) will be emptied and replaced with new stuff.  Click "OK" and go.

20 minutes later, when the system finishes installing, reboot.  /home, and any user-created directory, is left untouched.  If you created your user with the same login name as the user you had before, then /home/[your_user_name] will have remained your home directory, and all the files and permissions will belong to you and be as they were previously.  

Because of this, you'll notice that your Gnome layout and configuration is exactly as it was.  Install Ubuntu-Tweak to get your PPAs back, and spend the next 20 minutes installing all the software that didn't come with the default install of the Ubuntu system.  When you run each freshly re-installed product, you'll notice that your settings and configurations are where you left them (as the .folder in your /home directory remains the same).  

Given this method, I see no reason to ever do an upgrade.  Seriously.  Even if you have good bandwidth, and even if the upgrade goes 100% perfectly (which *never happens*, in my experience), the upgrade process itself takes *hours* downloading gigs of debs, and hours on top of that (depending on the complexity of your system) answering questions about which modified /etc files to overwrite as the update lurches forward at its own pace.

A "dirty install" lays down a fresh system, free from any weird legacy upgrade issues, in about 20 minutes... all while preserving your program and desktop settings.  In fact, I timed my last one, and on a T42p my Dirty Install of Lucid over Karmic was 48 minutes, from popping in the CD to installing my last deb fresh from synaptic, losing no settings in the process.  I did have to restore my Apache configs from my backup .tar.gz, an operation which took seconds.  

I grant that there is about 20 minutes of work, selecting all the packages you had installed before, and installing them again in Synaptic.  But that is preferable to waiting 3~5 hours, constantly having to be there to tell the updater what to do with regard to replacing or keeping /etc configuraiton files.  YMMV, that's just my opinion, take it for what its worth, and rock on.   :guitar:

---

### Post by ezsit on 2010-10-06
I've been doing operating system installations and upgrades for 20 years with commercial and open source operating systems on systems ranging from 286's to current quad core systems. Fresh installs ALWAYS work better than upgrades. Period. 

I do not care what the company or developers say, what the community says, if they say to upgrade, just ignore it and do a fresh install. Save yourself the grief and frustration of hunting down weird little problems and bugs left over from old configuration files and left-over libraries from old software.

Keep your /home folder on a separate partition and do a fresh install, preserving your /home and you will have a better experience.

---

### Post by VMC on 2010-10-06
> **WorLord said:**
> ...
(Prereq: back up anything in /etc, /usr, /boot, or any other system directory that you might want to keep.  Like Apache configurations.)

...
3. At the partitioning stage, select "Manual".  
4. Pick old swap partition, and use it as "swap".
5. Pick old / partition, set it to be this install's /, and UNCHECK THE "FORMAT" CHECKBOX.  This is key.
6. When the installer asks for the default user, re-create the user you had with the same login name (this is also key).

...
This is basically how I have been doing it for the past several releases. I leave the swap alone and haven't had issues with that one.

The only thing I would question, is why backup "/etc, /usr, /boot, or any other system directory"? You mentioned Apache, which I don't use, but if you re-install the other folders you run the risk of having older libraries.

I do use Chrome which resides in "/opt". I don't think backing that up would work, since its links are missing from the OS. It installs fast enough using the *.deb file.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2010-10-06
> **mgunes said:**
> None whatsoever. As you suspect, the notion that a clean install is going to be faster or safer than an upgrade is a myth.  

The "faster" part is mostly placebo effect rooted in the feeling associated with each option: the clean install, being "clean" and unmodified, gives a sense of a fresh start, whereas the upgrade involves the release upgrader performing modifications on an already used installation. And "safer" is mostly people citing anecdotal evidence either due to badly maintained and heavily modified installations causing problems in upgrades, or a holdover from bad experiences with very early Ubuntu versions where upgrades were not as extensively tested as they are now, and unofficial installation scripts and the like that were problematic with upgrades were more common.

There are cases where a clean install is preferable (you'll see those covered in [one of the sticky threads]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1500648") here), but those are the exceptions, not the norm. Given that your system is not badly maintained and already essentially broken, and you've read the release notes and have determined that there are no upgrade-specific issues that apply to your configuration, an upgrade should be perfectly fine.

This.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-10-06
I've done both. The reason I do a fresh install, is that the system usually has been upgraded from an alpha, and I have installed many packages that I don't normally use to see if I can duplicate problems others have. I've got a couple of systems that I upgrade, and aside from the extra time needed I really don't see that much difference.

What WorLord suggested is what some of the devs have been suggesting for the last three or four releases, that there really isn't even a need for a seperate home directory, as doing it WorLord's way doesn't touch the home directory at all.

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2010-10-06
> **mgunes said:**
> The "faster" part is mostly placebo effect rooted in the feeling associated with each option: the clean install, being "clean" and unmodified, gives a sense of a fresh start, whereas the upgrade involves the release upgrader performing modifications on an already used installation.

I've always thought that this mentality comes from Windows. 

Whereas uninstalling programs still leaves unwanted entries in the registry.  So, in order to truly have a "faster" system, over time, you would have to re-install Windows in order to have a "clean" registry.

---

### Post by Linuxforall on 2010-10-06
Keep the LTS, create a separate partition and try out 10.10, see if it suits you and then go for a complete clean install.

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2010-10-06
I do a fresh one because on release day a torrent of the iso goes MUCH faster than the hammered update servers.

---

### Post by sendblink23 on 2010-10-06
I feel FRESH is always better.... I hate having removal of old packages....  and then after upgrades sometimes things just stop working... or some random driver issues, conflicts installs etc...

Doing a fresh install usually solves all those issues since there is nothing at all in the install to ruin/render anything.... its entirely starting from a new clean canvas.

Ofcourse I've had done upgrades which work perfectly... but i always encounter a conflict of something minor that then turns into a huge hassle to solve it

But here is a rule I follow... if your current OS version works perfectly flawlessly beautifully perfect for you - DO NOT UPGRADE & stick with it!

---

### Post by WorLord on 2010-10-08
> **VMC said:**
> The only thing I would question, is why backup "/etc, /usr, /boot, or any other system directory"?

In the (so far, IME, very unlikely) event that you might actually need something from those directories.  

I very rarely do.  In fact, configuration scripts and conf files from /etc (like Apache, or PHP.ini, or the specialized dhclient.conf file I use at work) are the only things I've ever needed, and more often than not I just edit the newly-laid down files with the changes I made from the old ones.

Also IME, /opt is totally left untouched, so whatever is in there tends to stay in there and work just fine afterwards.  

Other directories like /boot and /usr may be totally unnecessary, but they DO get wiped, and I wanted to make sure I covered that. :)

---

### Post by nanog on 2010-10-08
> Fresh installs ALWAYS work better than upgrades. Period. 
Save yourself the grief and frustration of hunting down weird little problems and bugs left over from old configuration files and left-over libraries from old software.

With all due respect that's a ridiculous generalization. 

First of all, many  users run software that requires extensive configuration. (We have programming environments that use half a dozen repo sources!) Secondly, anyone who develops or runs enterprise level software will have software that is not packaged and is a PITA to install or compile. Thirdly, server/db backup, setup, and configuration takes far more time than a reinstall.  Fourthly, a user familiar with dpkg/apt/compilation should be able to keep track of old configuration files and left-over libraries. (This is not rocket science.)

If linux ever required reinstalls for optimal performance I would switch to freebsd in a zeptosecond.

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2010-10-08
A fresh install will put system files back together on-disk, so if you're using a rotational disk, you might see a (slight) decrease in boot time. 

The only other reason why I would do a reinstall, is to get rid of fancy hacks I applied and forgot about. :D

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2010-10-08
1. I'm running Maverick looking for bugs and new install seems to turn more of them up.  Especially ubiquity & Grub.

2. New install takes less disk space than a previous install upgraded in spite of running apt-get clean, autoclean, autoremove, and dumping obsolete /boot entries.  I've got 10 installs on this hard drive with various levels of Maverick in case one dies, Lucid, Karmic, Debian, Slitaz, document libraries, ...

3. Having said that, there's usually a big traffic jam on release, so I have a Daily Build just before release (rsync reduces server load) which I update when the traffic jam dust clears.

Jerry

---

### Post by jwm93k on 2010-10-08
The decision to clean install or update is a choice, but backing up you system is not a choice to consider, just do it. I use Acronis and back up my system as an image. If it dies I am back to my image in less than a hour(most times, very large hard drives may take longer). Some people just back up the data, pictures, and music. Either way you must consider and start some type of backup routine. The data and time (and headaches) you save in the long run will be your own. **Backup, Backup, Backup......**
My bootable Acronis is getting old and newer hardware will not work with it. Are there Linux/open back up software as user friendly at bootable Acronis CD?
I'm looking forward to 10.10. My last few updates to 10.04 did work well.

---

### Post by VMC on 2010-10-08
> **jwm93k said:**
> ...
My bootable Acronis is getting old and newer hardware will not work with it. Are there Linux/open back up software as user friendly at bootable Acronis CD?
....Have you tried Clonezilla? Also I have the newest Arconis True Image Home which supports ext4. 


Clonezilla and/or partclone is still my favorites. Also there is FSArchiver to consider.

---

### Post by WorLord on 2010-10-08
> **nanog said:**
> With all due respect that's a ridiculous generalization.

QFT.

It IS a ridiculous generalization.  I can easily think of some situations and environments wherein a fresh install would be less-than-optimal, and heartily not recommended.

ON THE OTHER HAND, for most _desktop/laptop_ use cases, I simply tend to think that a dirty reinstall is *the* path of least resistance, and in every way more reliable, more complete, and (especially) less time-consuming than an update-manager upgrade.  Not so much for performance - I can honestly say that once the dust is settled, I can't notice a performance difference between an upgraded system and a freshly-installed one.  

It's mostly just a time-differential thing.  Takes far less time, and fewer headaches figuring out strange upgrade artifacts, than an upgrade.  In fact, I've dirty-installed, and re-installed all missing software, in less time than it takes an upgrade to even reach the halfway point.  

YMMV is a valuable acronym, especially in this case.

---

### Post by solitaire on 2010-10-09
I usually do a dirty-install as standard.

The only reason I'd do a clean install from a USB/CD is if I wanted to change the partition sizes.

Though I usually have a bad habit of installing a load of services and then forget about them till I want to tweak my boot times a bit, then i have to go round my system finding out what services I installed and never used! lol

---

