---
title: "10.10 upgrade sources.list hint"
date: 2010-09-08
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by wyth on 2010-09-08
Just posting this in case its of any use to others.

I upgraded to the beta of 10.10, and synaptic constantly gave me "Could not download all repository indexes" errors. 

Removing and re-adding the majority of my repositories didn't seem to help, *until* I removed them all and then added them through Ubuntu Tweak. Not sure what that was about -- might have just hit a wonky time at the servers.

However, I still kept getting the errors on the virtualbox and spideroak repos.

**- BUT -**

I found that the sources.list in /etc/apt *still had* this at the top:

```
# deb cdrom:[Ubuntu 10.04 LTS _Lucid Lynx_ - Release amd64 (20100429)]/ lucid main restricted
# See http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes for how to upgrade to
# newer versions of the distribution.
```

After changing those lines to the following, everything was dandy:

```
# deb cdrom:[Ubuntu 10.10 _Maverick Meerkat_ - Release amd64 (20100902)]/ maverick main restricted
# See http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes for how to upgrade to
# newer versions of the distribution.
```

So if you're having trouble with synaptic and updating, you might want to check your /etc/apt/sources.list file.

---

### Post by 23meg on 2010-09-08
You've changed a comment line (one that begins with the "#" character); that can't have any effect on how your sources.list is interpreted.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2010-09-08
They are just comment lines .... changing them should make no difference !!!

---

### Post by caryb on 2010-09-08
Is it inappropriate to say Lol?


Lol

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-09-08
I changed all mine, they read 10.10  Mangy Moose.

I like comment lines.

---

### Post by wyth on 2010-09-08
> **23dornot23d said:**
> They are just comment lines .... changing them should make no difference !!!

You'd think so, but even commented out, synaptic/aptitude was still constantly giving the index errors. 

Commenting them out just means nothing is going to downloaded/installed from a CD-ROM, but the file itself still confuses synaptic/aptitude with conflicting version information.

Changing them -- even though they're commented -- fixed the issue. It should have been changed with the upgrade in the first place, and at least in my case it didn't happen. If it happened in one case, it may happen to others, hence the suggestion.

If you're not having any issues, then good for you, this post wasn't meant for you. This was meant for people who are having the same index issues I had with the beta, and what I posted is a fix for those issues. 

But if you have anything else to offer, please do. 

:roll:

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-09-08
I think that you will find that there was something else changed when you tweeked it.  As long as it is fixed it is great.

It would have been interesting to know where the problem was.

I think you would find, if you went in and manually edited the comment lines back to lucid (or anything else), that it would make no difference.

The change that mattered was elsewhere, the question is why did the upgrade miss it.  This would be good to know and get fixed.

---

### Post by wyth on 2010-09-08
> **ranch hand said:**
> I think that you will find that there was something else changed when you tweeked it.  As long as it is fixed it is great.

Nope, the only thing I changed was those lines -- I made a backup copy of the original in case, and compared it all to the saved one that was made in the upgrade. They're attached, if anyone wants to see. (I added .txt so they wouldn't open Software Sources.)

I made that change after I came across a forum post someplace that suggested making sure that top info was correct even though it was commented out. If I could find the post again I'd share it, but I don't have it. Usually the problem was people had the CD-ROM enabled for updates, and that's why they got the index problems, but sometimes they didn't have it enabled. 

Somewhere in all the googling, I came across a post that mentioned how even if the lines are commented out, they still passed on some information, and the person posting just suggested making sure lines were correct even if commented out. 

If I recall correctly, there was something similar in Grub (don't think it's the same for Grub2). There were some lines that were commented out, but they still still seemed to pass on some information, just not instructions; there was a warning in the file like 

```
## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs
```I think they had to do with stuff like font size, etc., and they did make a difference, even if they were commented out. I'm no wizard with this stuff, but it seems like in some configuration  files, commented lines can still pass info, just not instructions.

---

