---
title: "10.10 After upgrade gdm only starts on internal screen"
date: 2010-09-04
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by W00ster on 2010-09-04
After an upgrade yesterday of my 32-bit 10.10 installation on my laptop, starting the machine now only displays the GDM login screen on my laptops internal display while leaving my external monitor turned off.
Once I login, the external monitor is activated as it should be.

This changed after the upgrade, no manual changes to any configuration done.

How do I get it to once more display the login screen on my external monitor?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-09-04
Maverick hasn't been released yet, please ask your questions in the proper sub-forum. Moved.

---

### Post by ktp on 2010-09-04
can you provide more information...like the video card and the drivers used?

---

### Post by W00ster on 2010-09-04
> **ktp said:**
> can you provide more information...like the video card and the drivers used?

Utterly irrelevant.

The point is since doing apt-get upgrade, the next reboot resulted in gdm not displaying the login screen on the external monitor, just on the internal.

Since no changes were done to any hardware nor to any software configurations, just an update, the card and drivers are irrelevant to find the root cause.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-09-04
> **W00ster said:**
> Utterly irrelevant.

The point is since doing apt-get upgrade, the next reboot resulted in gdm not displaying the login screen on the external monitor, just on the internal.

Since no changes were done to any hardware nor to any software configurations, just an update, the card and drivers are irrelevant to find the root cause.
Well ktp I guess that put you in your place.

---

### Post by jpeddicord on 2010-09-04
> **W00ster said:**
> Utterly irrelevant.

The point is since doing apt-get upgrade, the next reboot resulted in gdm not displaying the login screen on the external monitor, just on the internal.

Since no changes were done to any hardware nor to any software configurations, just an update, the card and drivers are irrelevant to find the root cause.

Actually, it's completely relevant. Drivers change between updates, especially during development. Over the past few days there have been NVIDIA driver updates, X updates, and other things that would effect this issue. If you're not willing to provide information to fix your problem, then why post about it?

---

### Post by ktp on 2010-09-04
> **ranch hand said:**
> Well ktp I guess that put you in your place.

it sure does...I should have known better then to ask such a noob question.  I apologize.  :lolflag:

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-09-05
Well when you have been testing as long as the op has you will learn these things.  It just takes time to get the experience.

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2010-09-05
Mercy!

On second thought:

1. On upgrade you are lucky that you have a usable desktop
2. Many times it is necessary to re-install drivers and re-configure monitors after upgrades or changes in kernels
3. If you want help why are you unwilling to participate in the conversation, the more we know the better we are able to help.
4. Maverick is still in development, expect the unexpected

Best of luck to you!

---

