---
title: "10.10 w/dell mini9"
date: 2010-09-06
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by KegHead on 2010-09-06
Hi!

Any success stories using 10.10 w/dell9 mini's?

I'll be using 10.10 desktop version.

Thanks!

KegHead

---

### Post by KegHead on 2010-09-07
Hi!

Anyone?

KegHead

---

### Post by KdotJ on 2010-09-07
Why not give a LiveUSB a try? Will give you a good indication of the status

---

### Post by KegHead on 2010-09-07
Hi!

That's probably the best way to go!

Thanks!

KegHead

---

### Post by julianb on 2010-09-07
People have had trouble with creating a liveUSB for 10.10 ... but it might work for you. 

Another option is to use a Lucid install and upgrade it to Maverick, which worked fine for me. (takes some time to get through all the upgrades).

---

### Post by KegHead on 2010-09-07
Hi!

I think I'll go the USB route and upgrade with the RC.

KegHead

---

### Post by iggykoopa on 2010-09-07
I've tried the netbook version on a liveusb for a little and it seems to work ok. I didn't install though because it's hackintoshed and I was just playing around to see if it would work.

---

### Post by KegHead on 2010-09-07
Thanks iggykoopa!

I looked at the netbook edition for 10.04 and did not care for it much.

the desktop version seems more robust.

KegHead

---

### Post by KdotJ on 2010-09-07
> **julianb said:**
> People have had trouble with creating a liveUSB for 10.10 ... but it might work for you. 

Another option is to use a Lucid install and upgrade it to Maverick, which worked fine for me. (takes some time to get through all the upgrades).

I had issues with this, namely with syslinux which required me to change some stuff in the files before booting from the USB. 
However, today I installed Maverick on my netbook from today's daily image and had no problems, even without editing anything this time.

---

### Post by KegHead on 2010-09-07
Hi KdotJ!

Do you have a mini9?

KegHead

---

### Post by theosam on 2010-09-07
I have a Dell Mini 10 (pretty much the same as 9).

10.10 boots up and installs wonderfully using the ISOs provided on ubuntu.com . The boot time is pretty much the same as 10.04 (give or take a few seconds maybe). I noticed that programs launches significantly faster. My battery life increased for about 10 minutes. 

I noticed one annoying problem:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1569184](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1569184)

---

### Post by KegHead on 2010-09-08
Hi!

Thanks for the update on your "10"

KegHead

---

### Post by KegHead on 2010-09-09
Hi!

Any other experiences with the above?

Thanks!

KegHead

---

### Post by FadeOUT on 2010-09-10
Hey there,

I tried upgrading my Mini 9 and at the moment it's not happy - bit of a strange graphics problem:


When the GUI (gnome) appears, it flickers back and forth between a couple of different colours of background repeatedly showing nothing but a box in the top-right with a couple of arrows. If I leave it for a while, I get an X-style cursor which I can move around, but nothing else.


I was using Lucid Netbook remix, which was working fine. If I get some time later, I'll have another look at it - but if anyone has any ideas in the mean time I'd love to hear them ;)

---

### Post by KegHead on 2010-09-10
Hi!

I wonder if it's a netbook edition issue?

KegHead

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-09-10
I think you will find that (except for the Broadcom wireless card) the Dell Mini 9 is very generic hardware that will be well-supported by any Linux distro (I've tried dozens). I have not tried 10.10 yet (waiting for a final release) but I have every reason to believe it will work great. 

Here is a good resource for you: [http://ubuntumini.com](http://ubuntumini.com)

---

### Post by KegHead on 2010-09-10
Hi!

I'm still waiting for the RC.

KegHead

---

### Post by theosam on 2010-09-10
The most significant improvement on the system is my battery life and the speed of launching programs.

More Info:

Boot Speed [from on to fully usable: 
53 sec (w/ Ubu. 10.04 and Win XP mounted)


Battery Life
2 hrs Windows XP
2:10 hrs Ubuntu 10.04
2:~20 hr Ubuntu 10.10
2:~40 hr Ubuntu 10.10 w/ Swappiness=10 trick

---

### Post by Nanuq on 2010-09-10
Updated from Xubuntu 10.04 to 10.10, and so far most things seem to be working fine. There's a minor issue with xfce4-terminal taking a constant 20% CPU, but nothing I can't sort out.

One unusual issue seems to be with the Broadcom wireless. When I'm on AC, everything is fine. When I'm on battery, I get erratic ping times and latency issues. For example: 

PING 192.168.1.1 (192.168.1.1) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 192.168.1.1: icmp_req=1 ttl=64 time=966 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.1.1: icmp_req=2 ttl=64 time=478 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.1.1: icmp_req=3 ttl=64 time=1012 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.1.1: icmp_req=4 ttl=64 time=5.96 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.1.1: icmp_req=5 ttl=64 time=535 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.1.1: icmp_req=6 ttl=64 time=45.4 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.1.1: icmp_req=7 ttl=64 time=575 ms

Wired is fine on either AC or battery. Any clues on this one, folks?

---

### Post by FadeOUT on 2010-09-14
I gave up and did a fresh install of 10.10 (beta) and it works fine, now (Dell Mini 9 / 910).

---

### Post by KegHead on 2010-09-14
Hi!

I took the plunge and installed 10.10 on my mini9.

No problems whatsoever!!

KegHead

---

