---
title: "10.10 Upgrade lst a disk"
date: 2010-09-14
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Evil Dax on 2010-09-14
I've just upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10.
And now one of my disks is missing.
It's an IDE-disk, connected to a SATA port.
In BIOS it's showing up, not in Ubuntu.
When it is waiting for the disk to come alive (RAID10 en LVM are on it), it does react when plugging the SATA cable out and in. (ata2 something message)
Disk has always worked with 6.4 and up, any ideas?

edit:
```

dmesg |grep ata2
[    3.090045] ata2: SATA max UDMA/100 mmio m512@0xe4008000 tf 0xe40080c0 irq 18
[    4.048065] ata2: SATA link up 1.5 Gbps (SStatus 113 SControl 310)
[    4.048267] ata2.00: NODEV after polling detection

```

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-09-14
10.10 is still in Beta. The full and final release will come out in the last week of October. Not recommended to be installed on production machines.

Needs to be moved to Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-09-14
> **sikander3786 said:**
> 10.10 is still in Beta. The full and final release will come out in the last week of October. Not recommended to be installed on production machines.

Needs to be moved to Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion.

Actually it is being released on the 10th.  10/10/10, which is also binary for 42, which is the answer to life, the universe, and everything.

---

### Post by Evil Dax on 2010-09-14
So 42 is the answer to the failing disk,
interesting, let me check!

nope, didn't do it.

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2010-09-14
I too am having issues with having my SATA drives being detected with maverick.

See this bug:  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/595321](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/595321)

If the symptoms are the same as you please hit the "This affects you" button near the top.
Maybe add some commentary and specific information if so inclined.

This is really got me frustrated because it has taken out more than half of my storage that I use for testing. 
Plus I may be stuck at Lucid long term if I want to fully use my rig. Not terrible since it's LTS, but...
Usually I have 4-5 extra installs going through testing, this cycle has been a real pisser ever since Maverick went to the 2.6.35.* kernel.

I'm getting this too.

 ```
2.340036] ata1: SATA link up 1.5 Gbps (SStatus 113 SControl 310)
[2.348040] ata1.00: both IDENTIFYs aborted, assuming NODEV
```

Controller is detected, drives are not.

---

### Post by Evil Dax on 2010-09-14
It's not the same  prob I'm facing,
I've got 1 native SATA disk on the Silicon-controller, functioning normally.
The second drive is actually a IDE with a SATA-convertor, and this is the one with the problems.

correct working disk:
```

dmesg |grep ata1
[    3.089935] ata1: SATA max UDMA/100 mmio m512@0xe4008000 tf 0xe4008080 irq 18
[    3.424073] ata1: SATA link up 1.5 Gbps (SStatus 113 SControl 310)
[    3.432530] ata1.00: ATA-6: ST3120023AS, 3.01, max UDMA/133
[    3.432636] ata1.00: 234441648 sectors, multi 16: LBA 
[    3.432765] ata1.00: applying bridge limits
[    3.432892] ata1.00: applying Seagate errata fix (mod15write workaround)
[    3.448553] ata1.00: configured for UDMA/100
[   52.124677] ata1.00: configured for UDMA/100
[   52.124702] ata1: EH complete


```

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2010-09-14
Ah well. was trying to get some "Me Too's" for the bug, 
Interesting though that you are on the sata-sil driver too

I've tried just about every trick I have found to fix this, and so far no luck.
I about to the point of flashing the firmware on the chip, not sold on that idea yet.
Hope your issue gets solved more easily.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-09-14
It might still be a problem with ubiquity, I've had problems with sata drives not being detected for several releases, I used to have to use the alternate install cd, but either a change in motherboards or a change in ubiquity solved the problem for me.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2010-09-14
I have never had a problem with sata's but for many cycles I have had a problem with ubiquity ( or nautilus for that mater ) refusing to recognize anything on an lvm volume .

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-09-14
> **ronacc said:**
> I have never had a problem with sata's but for many cycles I have had a problem with ubiquity ( or nautilus for that mater ) refusing to recognize anything on an lvm volume .

That's because the live cd does not have lvm installed.  You can install the lvm2 package first, then lvm volumes will show up, though ubiquity can not create or remove them.

---

### Post by Evil Dax on 2010-09-15
*latest update*
Upgraded to new kernel this morning (2.6.35-21-generic)

Problem still persists, it only moved from ata2 to ata4 according to dmesg.

---

### Post by Evil Dax on 2010-09-21
New kernel since yesterday (2.6.35-22-generic).
Also no luck with it.

```

dmesg |grep ata2
[    3.109578] ata2: SATA max UDMA/100 mmio m512@0xe4008000 tf 0xe40080c0 irq 18
[    4.060060] ata2: SATA link up 1.5 Gbps (SStatus 113 SControl 310)
[    4.060261] ata2.00: NODEV after polling detection

```

---

### Post by xebian on 2010-09-21
> **cariboo907 said:**
> It might still be a problem with ubiquity, I've had problems with sata drives not being detected for several releases, I used to have to use the alternate install cd, but either a change in motherboards or a change in ubiquity solved the problem for me.

IIRC OP upgraded not installing so it has nothing to do with ubiquity.

---

### Post by KegHead on 2010-09-21
Wow!

I finally found the answer!

42

KegHead

---

### Post by Evil Dax on 2010-09-23
Got too annoyed not being able to use my LVM.
So I took down a DVDRW, and hung the drive on my IDE.
Problem solved.
Bug persists.

---

