---
title: "2.6.35 broke suspend"
date: 2010-06-14
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by psusi on 2010-06-14
After upgrading to maverick, my display will not come back on after resume from suspend.  I have to hit ctrl-alt-shift-f1 and ctrl-alt-del to reboot.  If I boot using the old 2.6.32 kernel it works again.  I have an ATI Radeon video card.

Has anyone else noticed this or have any ideas on how to debug this?

---

### Post by razmakati on 2010-06-14
> **psusi said:**
> After upgrading to maverick, my display will not come back on after resume from suspend.  I have to hit ctrl-alt-shift-f1 and ctrl-alt-del to reboot.  If I boot using the old 2.6.32 kernel it works again.  I have an ATI Radeon video card.

Has anyone else noticed this or have any ideas on how to debug this?

Same here, just noticed it this evening. Checking Lauchpad for a Bug Report

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-06-14
On the other hand suspend now works properly on my netbook with i945 graphics chipset using 2.6.35.2, where it didn't before.

---

### Post by Anduu on 2010-06-14
> **psusi said:**
> After upgrading to maverick, my display will not come back on after resume from suspend.  I have to hit ctrl-alt-shift-f1 and ctrl-alt-del to reboot.  If I boot using the old 2.6.32 kernel it works again.  I have an ATI Radeon video card.

Has anyone else noticed this or have any ideas on how to debug this?

You are lucky...at least you can restart via the keyboard..

For me my system attempts to suspend...my monitor goes to sleep and I hear the hard drives spin down however the system does not power down.The fans continue to run.

The only way out for me is a hard reset.

Upon examination of my logs there are no errors reported.From what I can tell,as far as my system is concerned the suspend operation was succesful.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-06-15
Tested the current nightly mainline build and suspend works.  I noticed a new Ubuntu kernel is currently in build, so hopefully when it finishes this will be fixed.  If not then it's something Ubuntu specific.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-06-15
The new 2.6.35-3 kernel still has this problem for me.  After more extensive testing tonight, I have isolated the problem to the config option CONFIG_PM_DISABLE_CONSOLE.  The Maverick kernel has this option set, and the mainline kernel package that works does not.  If I build the Maverick kernel sources after disabling this option, suspend/resume works, but it fails with this set to y.  Oddly, this option is enabled in the lucid 2.6.32 kernel and works fine there.

I have filed a bug to track this at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/594885](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/594885)

---

### Post by doesntcount on 2010-09-27
I seem to be experiencing this problem in the 2.6.35-22 kernel. Has this kernel re-regressed?

I'm experiencing the exact same symptoms as the o.p. Here's my kernel info:

Linux <pcname> 2.6.35-22-generic-pae #33-Ubuntu SMP Sun Sep 19 22:14:14 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux

My hardware is a Dell Latitude E6400 laptop.

---

### Post by HotShotDJ on 2010-10-03
> **doesntcount said:**
> I seem to be experiencing this problem in the 2.6.35-22 kernel.I'm also have the same problem as the OP -- Suspend seems to go fine, but no dice on resume.  2.6.35-generic #33-Ubuntu installed.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-10-03
Does anything stick out in /var/log/pm.suspend.log?

---

### Post by doesntcount on 2010-10-04
Doesn't look like anything obvious in the logfile to me. It's here:

[http://pastebin.ca/1953810](http://pastebin.ca/1953810)

if anybody would like to look. I'd appreciate any help.

---

### Post by HotShotDJ on 2010-10-04
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Does anything stick out in /var/log/pm.suspend.log?Nothing sticking out for me either. pm-suspend.log compressed and attached.

---

### Post by doesntcount on 2010-10-04
Definitely seems like a regression to me. When i boot with a 2.6.32 kernel, I have no issues suspending. I will open a bug report (although I have not done this before).

---

### Post by pfunkman on 2010-10-04
Same issue here. Problem started with 10.10 so i assume its the .35 kernel.

---

### Post by doesntcount on 2010-10-05
Tried to submit my bug on launchpad, here's what i encountered after filling out all the details:

Timeout error

Sorry, something just went wrong in Launchpad.

We’ve recorded what happened, and we’ll fix it as soon as possible. Apologies for the inconvenience.

Trying again in a couple of minutes might work.

(Error ID: OOPS-1739E2890)


When I clicked back to retrieve all the info i entered, it was gone. Too bad the bug reporting website isn't as stable and user friendly as ubuntu's OS :(

---

### Post by jmlaniel on 2010-10-07
I am experiencing the same problem on a Samsung N150 Netbook. The only way to make the suspend work is by booting with a previous kernel (I upgarded my 10.04 version, so I still have the old kernels).

---

### Post by lots_of_entropy on 2010-10-07
Same problem here. 10.10 on a Thinkpad x200.

---

### Post by doesntcount on 2010-10-07
Tried launchpad again. Worked this time. Here's the bug:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/656631](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/656631)

Feel free to add anything that I might have missed and indicate that it affects you.

---

### Post by auxbuss on 2010-10-08
Have you looked at this thread:

  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1586178](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1586178)

I had the same problem. Fix was to use acpi_sleep=nonvs

Hopefully, this is a temporary fix, though.

---

### Post by jmlaniel on 2010-10-08
I tried auxbuss solution and it didn't work. From time to time, I can return from suspend mode, but most of the time, the computer can't come back :( (I get the black screen with no chance of doing nothing else but a hard reboot).

---

### Post by CoolJohnB on 2010-10-08
Just tried suspend with my Dell Vostro 3700 no problems! Kernel 2.6.35-22

---

### Post by jmlaniel on 2010-10-08
I might add that my Dell laptop (Inspiron 6400) is working well when recovering from the suspend state. The problem is only with my N150 Samsung Netbook...

---

### Post by SushiR on 2010-10-08
> **jmlaniel said:**
> I might add that my Dell laptop (Inspiron 6400) is working well when recovering from the suspend state. The problem is only with my N150 Samsung Netbook...

Same here. No problems with suspend/resume on Lucid, but with Maverick it just freezes to death.

---

