---
title: "10.10 maverick gnome-panel and compiz issues"
date: 2010-10-05
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by thedevilisbad on 2010-10-05
I posted this by mistake in another area of the forum...
_______________________________________________________________

Hello everyone!

I made the upgrade to 10.10 the other day, and it's pretty functional.

The few problem that keep erking me are as follows:

1. Often when I boot up the gnome-panel is buggy, I run ```
gnome-panel --replace
``` to fix this, which it does. I'd just like it to look normal at boot up.

2. The GDM (or compiz) doesn't boot up correct all of the time. Every now and then I'll open a program after booting and will have no minimize/restore/exit buttons. I fix this buy just turning compiz on using the compiz-switch icon which I put up in my panel.

3. Why doesn't rhythmbox minimize to the notification area. I like the mini player in sound menu, but I hate that if you want it out of your system tray it has to be closed. Grrr!

Any thoughts on the issues would be much appreciated!

---

### Post by thedevilisbad on 2010-10-07
Bueller? Bueller? Bueller?

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-10-07
Issues with Compiz likely have to do with your graphics hardware? ATI/Intel/Nvidia?

Also, for the sound applet, I agree, though I have no thoughts at this time.

---

### Post by sendblink23 on 2010-10-07
> **NightwishFan said:**
> Issues with Compiz likely have to do with your graphics hardware? ATI/Intel/Nvidia?

Also, for the sound applet, I agree, though I have no thoughts at this time.

I don't think its video related, since it happens to my laptop (950 gma) & 2 desktops(Nvidia 9800GTX+, ATI 5770 CrossfireX).

On all I have 10.10 rc (clean fresh install, no upgrades) with Compiz & experience the same exact issue he has described - like him I also need to run: gnome-panel --replace  so that it fixes the issue...as well what he says "compiz-switch icon" I guess he means the Fusion icon

I've seen it happened on previous Ubuntu versions(very minimal) but on 10.10 rc I''ve encountered it everyday the issue on some reboots

---

### Post by Sockerdrickan on 2010-10-07
I also experienced a weird gnome-panel

A fix is to create (in your home directory) a file called .gtkrc-2.0 with this

```
include "/usr/share/themes/Ambiance/gtk-2.0/gtkrc"
gtk-icon-theme-name = "ubuntu-mono-dark"
```

---

### Post by sendblink23 on 2010-10-07
> **Sockerdrickan said:**
> I also experienced a weird gnome-panel

A fix is to create (in your home directory) a file called .gtkrc-2.0 with this

```
include "/usr/share/themes/Ambiance/gtk-2.0/gtkrc"
gtk-icon-theme-name = "ubuntu-mono-dark"
```

should i change the inside directories according to the theme I'm using?

---

