---
title: "10.04=&gt;10.10 Beta Upgrade is Frozen!"
date: 2010-09-15
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by pc_michael on 2010-09-15
Hello all,

I am currently running the distribution upgrade to move from 10.04 to the 10.10 beta.  However, it is currently frozen at "7 minutes remaining," with the following entry being the last in the Terminal window:


```
Installing new version of config file /etc/logrotate.d/samba ...
```

What can I do to rescue this upgrade or skip this step or something?  Or should I just reboot and hope for the best?

Thanks!

---

### Post by pc_michael on 2010-09-15
Just an update: I threw all caution to the wind and rebooted.  I then ran dpkg which seemed to do good things and maybe finish installation.

Should I do anything else?  Or am I all set?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-09-15
> **pc_michael said:**
> ... Should I do anything else?  Or am I all set?

Yes ... until 10.10 is actually released, stop posting in this forum and instead, post in the proper Maverick Development forum.

This forum is reserved for released versions of Ubuntu, not those still under development.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-09-15
Moved to Maverick Meerkat sub-forum.

---

### Post by UnSandpiper on 2010-09-16
I had a similar issue.
During upgrade gtk or something in gnome froze so that I couldn't answer to one of those "do you want to keep the current version of xxx?" dialoges.

Rebooted into recovery mode, did the dpkg package fix which completed the upgrade. After a reboot ran another update and everything was fine since.

---

### Post by UnSandpiper on 2010-09-16
I think I have the same issue when running todays updates that the samba update will just hang.

For me it hangs at:

```

update-alternatives: using /usr/bin/smbstatus.samba3 to provide /usr/bin/smbstatus (smbstatus) in auto mode.

```

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-09-16
confirm here too with maverick32

---

### Post by UnSandpiper on 2010-09-16
hm... this was ugly. After the update I had to reboot due to a package db lock. Went to recovery mode as it served me well already this week, but no avail, dpkg package fixing also gets stuck upon updating samba.

Booted back up in normal mode, ran 
```

sudo dpkg --configure -a
sudo apt-get remove samba
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade

```

And the update went through. I don't need samba anyways, so I won't try to reinstall it the near future.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-09-16
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/samba/+bug/639768](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/samba/+bug/639768)

add your vote: yes, it affect me

---

