---
title: "10.04&gt;10.10 upgrade hangs on loading splash"
date: 2010-09-05
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Garciat on 2010-09-05
On that screen that has the Ubuntu logo and the white dots that turn orange, my PC doesn't go through all the dots and just fills them all up as orange and just hangs. (I know the dots don't really mean anything as far as error codes, but I don't get any error text on the screen.)

When I try recovery mode on the Grub screen and then select load on failsafeX, the PC boots properly. This leads me to believe something's wrong with the graphics driver. I use NVIDIA 256.35 drivers (installed manually). My PC is 32-bit.

A possibly fix could be uninstalling/disabling the drivers, but I can't do that with '$ sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia*' or any similar commands (I guess because it's a manual install).

Note: on the upgrade, the script hanged at mysql-server-5.1 and I had to reboot the PC (not smart from my part). I ended up removing mysql and doing the dpkg fix on recovery mode.

If anyone could help, I'd really appreciate it.

Thank you.

---

### Post by GenBattle on 2010-09-05
I would suggest installing the proprietary drivers from the repository, then uninstalling them (this should effectively uninstall your manually installed drivers as well), then manually install the drivers again.

Other than that the only thing i can suggest is to play around with the options in this post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9766336&postcount=8](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9766336&postcount=8)

---

### Post by Garciat on 2010-09-05
Thanks for the response. Should I '$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-current'?

---

### Post by GenBattle on 2010-09-05
That would be my suggestion. If that doesn't fix the problem by itself, try uninstalling and installing the one you manually downloaded.

---

### Post by cwhamsun on 2010-09-06
I am having a similar problem with an ATI card. Must be something with the upgrade and proprietary graphics drivers. I will let you know what ends up working for me.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2010-09-06
moved to maverick

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-09-06
I would hit e when you screen menu comes up and remove "splash" from the instruction string.

Hit Ctrl+x to boot from edited menu entry.

If this works, once you are in edit the /etc/default/grub file to remove "splash" from the instruction string on the generated screen menu.

You will need to run;
```

sudo update-grub]

```
to have that take effect.

Should get you in.

---

### Post by Garciat on 2010-09-06
Managed to solve the problem:

```
$ sh NVIDIA-linux-x86-256.35.run --uninstall
$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-current nvidia-current-modaliases nvidia-settings
$ sudo update-alternatives --config gl_confsudo
$ sudo ldconfig
$ sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

---

### Post by VMC on 2010-09-06
> **Garciat said:**
> Managed to solve the problem:

```
$ sh NVIDIA-linux-x86-256.35.run --uninstall
$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-current nvidia-current-modaliases nvidia-settings
$ sudo update-alternatives --config gl_confsudo
$ sudo ldconfig
$ sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

[COLOR=Silver]I' curious. Did you see any error about rivafb? Also did you just execute line one from a VT with GDM running?

Also, when you updated the modaliases, did it then load that 40mb nvidia file as well?[/COLOR] [COLOR=Silver]

Thanks.[/COLOR] 

Edit: Never mind, I just saw the tail end of line one. Forget I said anything.

---

