---
title: "10.10 does not see my wireless"
date: 2010-09-22
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Weaselpants on 2010-09-22
HP Pavilion dv6.  Just loaded 10.10 and NO wireless drivers were installed.  So, methinks it can't see the card.  Now what?  Laptop is not much use without wireless.  What do I do about it (other than go back to Window$)?

---

### Post by hub_cap on 2010-09-22
> **Weaselpants said:**
> HP Pavilion dv6.  Just loaded 10.10 and NO wireless drivers were installed.  So, methinks it can't see the card.  Now what?  Laptop is not much use without wireless.  What do I do about it (other than go back to Window$)?

I'm running 10.10 Beta on an USB drive. I have no wireless either for my Intel Pro card. (works fine with 10.04 LTS). I'm now connected with an Ethernet connection to my wireless router.
Rather than using M$, couldn't you just reload 10.04 for now? :)

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-09-22
Weaselpants, did you go through the steps to enable proprietary drivers? Without knowing what type of chip your wireless uses (mine is Broadcom), you may need to plug into a router via ethernet and try to install the driver by going to system>administration>hardware (I think...check the menus to confirm - not on my Ubuntu machine right now). It may offer a driver if one is available. Or try 10.04 since it's the stable LTS. You are using a beta right now (10.10) so you can expect problems.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-09-22
Moved to Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion

---

### Post by Weaselpants on 2010-09-24
SOLVED - proprietary drivers was the villain.  Thanks

---

