---
title: "10.10 thinks it's 9.10....."
date: 2010-09-20
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by addchild314 on 2010-09-20
Hey guys, i just installed ubuntu 10.10 with wubi this afternoon. after installation, i installed all the updates, as normal. However, where it gets weird, is after the update, the repositories had been changed to karmic, and on the process monitor, the system tab says it's 9.10. Before you ask, yes, I am sure I installed 10.10 to begin with, i just downloaded it early this morning. I've already set up my dev environment and would really like to not have to delete/reinstall. I changed the repos back to maverick and perform a update, and the update/upgrade fails with the first package. any ideas?

TIA

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-09-21
Please post the output of this:

```
uname -a
```

```
cat /etc/lsb-release
```

---

### Post by addchild314 on 2010-09-21
```
Linux ubuntu 2.6.31-22-generic #65-Ubuntu SMP Thu Sep 16 16:21:34 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=9.10
DISTRIB_CODENAME=karmic
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 9.10"
```

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-09-21
The kernel and release say it's karmic.

What was the name of the iso you downloaded?

---

### Post by addchild314 on 2010-09-21
Ok, first things first, I'm not trolling, but legitimately looking for help. I installed the 10.10 beta yesterday. The first problem (which I mentioned in my first post, and apparently has ceased to exist since yesterday, or at least i cant find it) was that the updates actually downgraded my install to 9.10. Yes, i downloaded the right ISO (ubuntu-10.10-beta-desktop-amd64.iso from ftp.usf.edu) installed correctly, etc. It isnt my first time around the block, as I started 2 years ago with 8.04. I'm a comp. engineer, so i like to always have the bleeding-edge distro, so I'm usually running the current beta. 
but i digress.... i sucked it up and wiped/installed 10.10.. or 9.10, w/e it thought it was. I installed updates again (it didnt downgrade itself this time) and the Nvidia restricted drivers. after reboot, there was a major performance drop, which apparently is a common occurrence with maverick & nvidia. I installed the beta drivers (260) and the performance was back to normal, when I could keep x-server from failing catastrophically. 
Now I can't even get it to boot. It never loads grub, just gets stuck in an endless reboot. I booted from the CD, restored the backup xorg.conf file that the nVidia driver install made, rechecked my grub config, and tried again. No joy. 

So, long story short, Maverick is completely unusable for me at this point. Is there something I am doing fundamentally wrong? It's always possible that I just totally forgot what I was doing somewhere along the way. I have almost convinced myself just to roll back to 10.04, since I know that works. However, eventually I'm going to want to run 10.10, and these seem like some serious problems for an OS so close to release. I'm really hoping I'm doing something wrong, because that would mean that it isnt as disgustingly buggy as it appears.

TIA for any and all help. I won't be able to post config or log files, as that would require a stable system, which I am lacking ATM (had to resort to my windows box to post)

---

### Post by Dustin2128 on 2010-09-21
eh, it's a beta, there's always going to be some problems. But how is it downgrading your install to 9.10, could you explain? 

Also, if you want a distro with an absolutely hemorrhaging edge software library, check out [gentoo.]("http://www.gentoo.org/")

---

### Post by addchild314 on 2010-09-21
I ran the updates, and it downgraded my kernel to the most recent karmic kernel, changed my repos to karmic, and then proceeded to (apparently) replace everything with the most current karmic updates. Weirdest thing i have ever seen. ok, maybe not the weirdest, but close.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2010-09-21
Threads merged and moved to Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion.

---

### Post by addchild314 on 2010-09-22
gurrrrr
This is the most problematic install i have ever done. I reinstalled win 7 (for a ~stable~ os - need it for school) and am currently in the proces of installing Maverick in dual-boot. its fine until it gets to the disk editor. The advanced options part will not let me change my disk size. The 'do it for me' option tries to install it on a recovery partition (5-gig partition) even though my primary partition has tons of space left. I would have changed it with the windows install, but i restored from an image, so it partitioned it for me. This is my 6th installation attempt, and I'm praying that it will work. I know some will probably recommend that I change to 10.04, but I'm fairly stubborn -with the comp engineering background I hate it when I cant get this kind of stuff to work. I believe many can relate to that. 

On a semi-related note, I just found the 'Find all my threads' option in the forum search menu. I cant believe that it took me 2 years to find that. Epic. Fail. 

Please, any help will be amazingly appreciated, this is really bugging the crap out of me!! Wubi is not an option - it doesnt like the nVidia drivers for some reason.

---

### Post by SlugSlug on 2010-09-22
install 10.04 and use repos for the apps you want bleading edge

---

### Post by addchild314 on 2010-09-22
Which repos? The maverick repos? Because that was install #4. 

I'm actually pretty sure it hates me. I booted to the live session, and gparted aborts with a signal handler error......

And its not so much that i specifically 'need' to install this particular distro for any reason than pride.

---

### Post by addchild314 on 2010-09-26
Ok, so, still having a phenominal amount of problems. "downgrade" is NOT the solution, as 10.10 is in code freeze pending release. So any problems I have now will not be fixed by release. I finally was able to install it and have it boot multiple times successfully (although I'm on my 7th install). It usually starts and works... decently. Usually. Every once in a while, after I reboot from Windows (dual boot, grub doing the heavy lifting) ubuntu takes its revenge by totally erasing my MBR. It's gotten to the point where I have a live cd on the USB key on my keyring, just to repair the bootloader. And when I say 'deletes my mbr' I mean actually totally removes it. The bios can't find anything to boot to.

Here is what I have to do when that happens:

```

fdisk
:c
:u
:x
:f
:q

```
To fix the partition table, then:
```

sudo mount /dev/sda /mnt
sudo mount --bind /dev /mnt/dev
sudo mount --bind /proc /mnt/proc
sudo mount --bind /sys /mnt/sys
sudo chroot /mnt
grub-install /dev/sda
configure-grub /dev/sda

```

If I don't do it in that exact order, it will fail again.


Also, wireless is totally unreliable. It will connect and disconnect at random, usually when I really need it not to. Its an Intel 5300 AGN.

Oh, and my specs:

Alienware m15x (2010 series)
Intel Core i7 720QM
Nvidia 260GTM (The nvidia drivers suck of course, but thats always been the case, so w/e...
Intel Wireless 5300 AGN
4GB 1066 DDR3 RAM 


Seriously, please? Anyone? I kinda need it because we use an IC fabrication program that is only available through SSH with X forwarding on a Solaris server. I can use xMing and PuTTy on Windows, but SSH works better on linux. Would I be better off going with a vanilla Debian install? Because, again, I'm not going to downgrade to make an ubuntu install (Which, again, is in code freeze pending the October release) work on a far-from-obsolete computer. And I have always been able to rely on the stability of Ubuntu, and all these problems are really puzzling me. I've never had issues this bad, either with any release or beta of any version.

---

