---
title: "2.6.35-12.17 kernel image available, yet metapackages still depend on 2.6.35-11?"
date: 2010-07-28
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2010-07-28
Why would the metapackages linux-image and linux-image-generic depend on an older version of the kernel?
I have it installed and it works just fine.

---

### Post by jppr on 2010-07-28
it´s not ready yet... [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux-meta/2.6.35.12.13](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux-meta/2.6.35.12.13)

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-07-28
have installed it and all is fine with pae kernel and 256.35

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2010-07-28
> **jppr said:**
> it´s not ready yet...Not true, I was running it at the time of the first post.  It works fine.  I was just wondering why the metapackages did not depend on the newest available kernel.

---

### Post by seeker5528 on 2010-07-28
The kernel metapackages than depend on an actual kernel package as opposed to some other kernel metapackage do depend on a kernel version they depend on the kernel packages by name 'major.minor.teeny-abi-type', type being generic, server, etc...

If only the package version changed the newer kenrel package would be pulled in as an update whether the metapackages were updated or not.

If the ABI part of the name changes, then it's a new package, so the metapackages are required to insure the newer kernel packages are pulled in as an update.

As for why the metapackages were not updated, I can't answer that. Could be some issue with patches they wish to incorporate, extra drivers or other stuff that need to be updated to work with the newer kernel image, or other discrepancies where maybe they wish to give people the opportunity to update to the newer image, but don't want everyone to be updated to it automatically. Or maybe the metapackages are just slow to make into the archives/mirrors, it happens the other way around at times where the metapackages have been updated, but the packages they depend on are MIA for a while. 

Later, Seeker

---

### Post by napsy on 2010-07-29
Are the kernel versions in sync yet? I can't compile catalyst modules because of kernel version mismatch.

---

