---
title: "10.10 volume app in panel !!"
date: 2010-09-06
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by maxrpowell on 2010-09-06
oh my... it's gone!  after upgrading to the 10.10 beta version (which is promising) i found my volume app to be absent from the panel. What is the command for the mixer app in 10.10? I could not find it on google as there is not much info on 10.10 out yet. Thanks

---

### Post by afrowildo on 2010-09-06
First of all make sure you're system is completely up to date. 10.10 is still under active development so there are updates available almost every day. One of them may fix your panel. If that doesn't work, then try entering this into a terminal then logging out and back in.

```
rm -r ~/.gconf/apps/panel
```

This will reset your gnome panel to it's default state, which should include the sound applet.

---

### Post by moore.bryan on 2010-09-06
And if it doesn't, gnome-volume-control-applet is the command.

---

### Post by maxrpowell on 2010-09-06
hey thanks! the first line of code worked! I had already tried the second one; it gave me the volume controller of 10.04 but not the new-and-improved-fancy-smanshy one of 10.10

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-09-06
Moved to MMTnD.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-09-06
In the future, just make sure indicator-sound is installed, and if it is, and there is no sound icon, purge it and re-install.

---

### Post by M4570D0N on 2010-10-01
This is probably a dumb question, but how does one access the newer sound applet? running the command:

```
gnome-volume-control-apple & disown
```

brought my volume icon/applet back to the panel but this seems to be the 10.04 version. right-clicking only shows the mute/unmute toggle, volume control bar/slider, and sound preferences. left-clicking only shows a vertical volume control bar. Neither within the Sound preferences, nor within compliant media players like Rhythmbox is there an option to integrate it.

In the wiki:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoundMenu#Handling%20upgrades](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoundMenu#Handling%20upgrades)

in the Rhythmbox section under Music Player Integration, it shows an image of the General tab in preferences. This is what my General tab looks like. It shows a drawing next to that image of what the tab is supposed to automatically change to when you first play something or add music to the library. This does not happen for me. 

I have rhythmbox 0.13.1-0ubuntu5 and pulseaudio 1:0.9.22~0.9.21+stable-queue-32-g8478-0ubuntu20 and, I believe, all the necessary libs,plug-ins,etc.

I do have indicator-sound as well. I purged it and reinstalled it just to check, but no dice. What am I missing here?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-10-01
Does it show up when you run rhythmbox?

---

### Post by M4570D0N on 2010-10-01
No change when running Rhythmbox.

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-10-02
Is this what you're looking for -> see screenshot

Try removing your current indicator applets from the panel. Make sure these are installed:
```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall gnome-media gnome-media-common indicator-applet indicator-applet-session indicator-me indicator-session indicator-sound
```

Right-click panel, select add to panel->indicator applet

---

### Post by ktp on 2010-10-02
if you have indicator-sound installed, then make sure you have "Indicator Applet" added to your panel.

---

### Post by M4570D0N on 2010-10-03
> **lidex said:**
> Is this what you're looking for -> see screenshot

Try removing your current indicator applets from the panel. Make sure these are installed:
```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall gnome-media gnome-media-common indicator-applet indicator-applet-session indicator-me indicator-session indicator-sound
```Right-click panel, select add to panel->indicator applet

I had all of those installed already, but I decided to run that command anyway and it worked. Thanks. [IMG]http://forums.nasioc.com/forums/images/smilies/banana.gif[/IMG]

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-10-03
> **M4570D0N said:**
> I had all of those installed already, but I decided to run that command anyway and it worked. Thanks. [IMG]http://forums.nasioc.com/forums/images/smilies/banana.gif[/IMG]

Nice banana :shock:

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2010-10-03
> **lidex said:**
> Is this what you're looking for -> see screenshot[...]Sweet!

I've been using Firefox (in workspace 3)for Internet Radio, but this feature makes life much easier.

LoL!  I guess I can purge Fx now. That's all I use it for... :D

---

