---
title: "UNE 10.10 Beta, want to edit Unity Bar"
date: 2010-09-28
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Rick 250 on 2010-09-28
So I'm really enjoying the new UNE 10.10 beta (much better than 10.04,  which doesn't work with any of my computers with UNE, normal, xbuntu,  x64, ect.), and I like the Unity bar, but I don't see myself needing so  many programs, and I'd like to get rid of most, and adding others,  mainly to get rid of the Unity Bar's need to scroll.  So how do I go  about editing the programs on the Unity Bar?

Also, just a general question, I'm assuming the UNE full release will be  much more light weight, cause right now UNE 10.10 is using over 70% of  my netbook's Intel ATOM N280 at most times, even when I'm running  nothing more than the Ubuntu Software center, when it isn't installing  or removing a program.  It's also using around 300MB ram, and 750MB  swap, when I have 2GB of ram.  With these usages, Windows 7 is lighter  than UNE 10.10 :razz:, Win 7 just doesn't boot as fast.  Will the final release be lighter?

If this has been already posted and answered, I apologize and please just direct me to the thread.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-09-28
One of the devs are getting upset at all the different names fro the panel. :)

You can just remove items from the **panel** by dragging them to the desktop, then when you have an app running, Right click on the icon and select **keep in launcher** and left click. This doesn't work for all applications, but it does work for the majority of them.

I'm sure when Unity matures a bit things will be more customizable.

---

### Post by Rick 250 on 2010-09-29
Thanks for the help, but if I right click on Unity, my netbook locks up.

---

