---
title: "10.10 should focus on perfonmance"
date: 2010-05-18
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Speed_arg on 2010-05-18
I love the new features, but it is slow. It is fast booting, but opening apps takes ages, plus Ubuntu Software Center is really laggy. Opening some folder (using nautilus) is so slow, sometimes it takes like 2 secs to load a folder.

Oh, and should include chromium, firefox is sooo slow, but chromium  is damn too fast!

My 0.02

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-05-18
> **Speed_arg said:**
> 
Oh, and should include chromium, firefox is sooo slow, but chromium  is damn too fast!

My 0.02

Hope not.
Maybe if Chromium gets proper adblock+

I tried lubuntu in a virtual machine, and was impressed with speed, and chromium seemed nice. Although chromium crashed when I tried viewing flash (it wasn't installed at the time). But once flash installed it ran good.

---

### Post by Jayayess1190 on 2010-05-18
Get an ssd, everything for me is fast. ;)

---

### Post by pferraro on 2010-05-18
> **andrewabc said:**
> Maybe if Chromium gets proper adblock+

[https://chrome.google.com/extensions/detail/gighmmpiobklfepjocnamgkkbiglidom]("https://chrome.google.com/extensions/detail/gighmmpiobklfepjocnamgkkbiglidom")

---

### Post by vkontakte on 2010-05-19
> **pferraro said:**
> [https://chrome.google.com/extensions/detail/gighmmpiobklfepjocnamgkkbiglidom]("https://chrome.google.com/extensions/detail/gighmmpiobklfepjocnamgkkbiglidom")
It's not proper yet. There's no way right now in chromium to prevent resource loading, but proper adblock needs this.

---

### Post by int on 2010-05-19
Yes, the adblocks for chrome is blocked only after the page is render..

And the adblockplus in Firefox in block before it's loaded. So it's more effective/speed and work with all ads.


Chrome/Chromium doesn't have the hooks needed to block form load the ads before loaded.

---

### Post by meborc on 2010-05-19
> **Jayayess1190 said:**
> Get an ssd, everything for me is fast. ;)

+1 

that is the next thing i will buy, a nice ssd for my laptop :) less heat, less noise, but faster

only drawbacks are price and capacity

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2010-05-19
use adthwart blocks before item is loaded

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-05-19
> **meborc said:**
> +1 

that is the next thing i will buy, a nice ssd for my laptop :) less heat, less noise, but faster

only drawbacks are price and capacity

Yep, SSD are awesome.
And prices are actually dropping. Popular Indilinx controller SSD from 2009 are currently having good prices now that Sandforce controller are out.

Soon prices for good Indilinx (on sale) should be
30gb for $100
60gb for $150
120gb for $300
And the new Sandforce controller starting price is like $220 for 60gb.

Definitely make huge improvement over any 5400rpm laptop/netbook drive.

Look at benchmarks posted in this thread to compare. Feel free to post your own benchmarks to compare.
[System->Admin->Disk Utility->Benchmark results](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1468995)
Netbook HDD gets around 40-60mb/s, meanwhile SSD gets ~200mb/s read.

---

### Post by screaminj3sus on 2010-05-19
> **vkontakte said:**
> It's not proper yet. There's no way right now in chromium to prevent resource loading, but proper adblock needs this.

It still loads pages faster than firefox and you cant see the ads... I fail to see the big issue there.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-05-19
I use Chrome with AdThwart, I still occasionally see ads, even though it uses the Adblock+ database.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-05-19
> **screaminj3sus said:**
> It still loads pages faster than firefox and you cant see the ads... I fail to see the big issue there.

Possible to get malware (assuming say windows+chromium+adblock)? Since it doesn't prevent connection, they can still target you.

I dunno. Preventing connection would definitely be preferred, and hiding ads I guess comes in close second. A hosts file could prevent the normal ad server connections I guess.

---

### Post by x-shaney-x on 2010-05-19
Personally I have found Lucid to be the best performing version of ubuntu (or mint) since Hoary (on this same computer).
In fact the only desktops I have used that felt faster are crunchbang and vector.
The only thing I find slow is firefox (generally, not page loading in particular).
Though if it does get replaced I hope it isn't by chrome/chromium, I hate it.

---

### Post by Speed_arg on 2010-05-19
> **Jayayess1190 said:**
> Get an ssd, everything for me is fast. ;)
Thats pretty much like a MS solution, spend more money to be fast.

There are some things that are particularly slow and should be fixed. By slow, I mean that windows 7 (just for comparing) can do it in the same machine in a much faster way.

Nautilus, is slow
Firefox, is slow
gedebi, when opening a deb, it takes like 8 secs grey, until you can actually press  install or reinstall.

---

### Post by meborc on 2010-05-20
> **Speed_arg said:**
> Thats pretty much like a MS solution, spend more money to be fast.

There are some things that are particularly slow and should be fixed. By slow, I mean that windows 7 (just for comparing) can do it in the same machine in a much faster way.

Nautilus, is slow
Firefox, is slow
gedebi, when opening a deb, it takes like 8 secs grey, until you can actually press  install or reinstall.

if i wanted to be an ****, i could suggest using mc instead of nautilus, elinks instead of firefox and just plain dpkg instead of gedebi - point being that you can get "fast" now, but you loose either in visual appearance or in the options

but i don't so i wont suggest that ;)

from the users point of view, you can either change the hardware you are running or the software you are using. that is why the suggestion of SSD was proposed... so what do you suggest we do that is not "the MS way" ?

---

### Post by x-shaney-x on 2010-05-20
The problem is, to make a distro itself perform better, you have to slim it down and cut out a lot of things that make it what it is.

I think the ubuntu devs have already done a lot to improve performance and I think they will keep doing so but there are limits.

The thing is, there are distros to suit everyone and there are lighter distros to choose from and even lighter ubuntu variations (lubuntu, crunchbang).

---

### Post by soapytheclown on 2010-05-20
> **Speed_arg said:**
> I love the new features, but it is slow. It is fast booting, but opening apps takes ages, plus Ubuntu Software Center is really laggy. Opening some folder (using nautilus) is so slow, sometimes it takes like 2 secs to load a folder.

Oh, and should include chromium, firefox is sooo slow, but chromium  is damn too fast!

My 0.02

I have never understood this, but my Dell vostro 1510 has been getting slower to boot since Jaunty which was literally about 3 seconds from Grub. Whereas my Brothers Vostro 1700 has been incrementally getting faster.

Have not seen any slow desktop apps (barring FF which takes a few seconds to run)

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-05-20
> **Speed_arg said:**
> Thats pretty much like a MS solution, spend more money to be fast.

Not really. SSD is much faster than HDD. If you want performance increase you'd have to invest in newer hardware.

Regular ubuntu main focus is usability and full featured, not necessarily speed. That is why there are other versions of ubuntu that focus on speed. I doubt regular ubuntu will ever be 'fast'.

Speed all depends on your hardware and how well drivers work with it.
10.10 will help with driver speed problems.

If you find firefox slow, try putting profile in RAM. I tried it and it made it much faster, but it was unstable (corrupt profile).
[Howto; Firefox profile in RAM for increased speed and stability](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1120475)

---

### Post by amano on 2010-05-21
Until Chrome gets a decent Bookmarks sidebar it is of no use for me. 

Vertical space is precious and a sidebar is where bookmarks should go to.

---

### Post by golusweet on 2010-05-22
> **Speed_arg said:**
> I love the new features, but it is slow. It is fast booting, but opening apps takes ages, plus Ubuntu Software Center is really laggy. Opening some folder (using nautilus) is so slow, sometimes it takes like 2 secs to load a folder.





I second that, Some applications respond too slow. I hope, performance improves in meerkat.:P

---

