---
title: "10.10 [black screen]"
date: 2010-07-26
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by nrbdw55 on 2010-07-26
loaded 10.10 all ok. then got upgrade and updates,rebooted to black screen and mouse cursor only.wtf.

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2010-07-26
That will happen, it's an alpha release after all. Some people are reporting near trouble free installations while others like myself experience crashes every hour or so. I guess it depends on the hardware and software installed.

It took me nearly an hour to sort my installation out yesterday after the GUI stopped loading at boot time. For me it becomes part of the learning process. All the answers I've ever needed I've found here by searching for them.

I don't know your level of experience, I'm an enthusiastic beginner but if you're not prepared to spend some time researching and fixing any problems then 10.10 won't be ready for some time yet, October?

---

### Post by lonniehenry on 2010-07-26
You should read all the stickies and try search before posting.  That said try reading [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9592609&postcount=36](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9592609&postcount=36).  To try to booting with the modification: when the grub screen appears, press e and then replace keep in the line "Set gfxpayload=keep" with text.  If it boots correctly, then follow the link to make permanent.

---

### Post by nrbdw55 on 2010-07-26
guess i was out of place then. my apologies to all

---

### Post by jpeddicord on 2010-07-26
Renamed your topic; please keep in mind that *all* of the posts in this forum are about 10.10. :)

---

### Post by nrbdw55 on 2010-07-26
firstly i have only been using ubuntu for 7 days. i really thought forums were for help. if you have to research every thing yourself then to me that would make forums a waste of time. go figure

---

### Post by lonniehenry on 2010-07-26
Sorry nrbdw55, I didn't mean to sound unfriendly or not helpful.  I have asked many questions of the forums and have found help.  I was suggesting that you read as much as posible about ubuntu and use search to find similar problems and possible solutions. If you then can't come up with an answer to your problem, of course people in the forum will help.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-07-26
If you are running and alpha/testing version, it is expected that you know how to fix basic problems that come along. 

The forums are here for help, but the problem you are having is pretty common, there are many threads on the same subject, and the solution is usually pretty simple.

I don't see anywhere in your posts what graphics adapter you're using, when asking a question it helps to include as much information as possible. We really can't help you unless you provide us with more information.

---

### Post by VMC on 2010-07-26
> **nrbdw55 said:**
> loaded 10.10 all ok. then got upgrade and updates,rebooted to black screen and mouse cursor only.wtf.

What I usually do is update using aptitude, now unless you install aptitude you use apt-get. Then I would review what it wants to upgrade and then it any problems arise I at least know where the fault may be. For example, some are reporting issues with an updated kernel.

---

### Post by nrbdw55 on 2010-07-27
firstly lonniehenry, no offense taken. i am very keen to learn what i can about ubuntu as it is a wonderful os. far superior to anything microsoft have ever done. i will continue to peruse these forums  to learn what i can. my video card is ati radeon.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-07-27
Unfortunately that still isn't much help. Open an Applcations->Accessories->Terminal and type:

```
sudo lshw -C display
```

and paste the result in your next post. The output should look something like this:

```
sudo lshw -C display
[sudo] password for me: 
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: GT218 [GeForce 210]
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       version: a2
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
       resources: irq:19 memory:df000000-dfffffff memory:c0000000-cfffffff memory:dc000000-ddffffff ioport:ef80(size=128) memory:def80000-deffffff
```

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-07-27
Depending on your card, mine is in my sig, youmay want to stick with the OSS drivers.  If the standard ones are not doing it for you (appears they don't) you may want to install the ones from;

[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)

I am using the standard ones except for on my UNE install where the standard ones just do not cut it at all.

The ATI driver for my card is not near as good as the OSS drivers.

I do not like effects and have mine set to "none".  That said, I can enable them and actually see that silly crap if I want.  Can't do that with the ATI driver for this card.  It will show them for a couple minutes and then lock everything up tight.

---

