---
title: "10.10 netbook edition on HP Mini 210-1010"
date: 2010-09-02
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Hogmeister on 2010-09-02
Ok so I've done some looking around and all things indicate that there is infact drivers available for the wireless but they just dont work out of the box. I'm fine with that, but somehow i cannot get this thing to work at all.

I've tried following the details at this site 

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Netbooks#HP%20Mini%201010nr](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Netbooks#HP%20Mini%201010nr)

but i don't know what WL is, nor is there any updates in the update manager available.. and it wont let me activate the broadcom b43 wireless driver at all (i can atleast see it in jockey) it gives me a failed message, i've checked the log but it doesnt give me much of any details as to why.

there is also a message i noticed when i went to ctrl+alt+f1 to open up a nano of /var/log/jockey.log ... anyway the message told me to go to [http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#devicefirmware](http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#devicefirmware) to find the correct driver and download it. 

Anyway, long story short, i'm sitting here w/ an inoperable wireless netbook ;) like i can use it with an ethernet cable but it really hinders what i want to do w/ it.

please help

---

### Post by Hogmeister on 2010-09-02
removed as per ranch's suggestion :P

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-09-02
One subject to a thread makes it searchable for the next guy with the problem.  Why not edit your last post to just the subject, mark it solved (thread tools on top of the page) and start a new thread?

Running a forum search before posting may save you the trouble.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-09-03
What chipset does your broadcom device use?

---

### Post by Hogmeister on 2010-09-03
i'm not sure to be honest, i was wondering that as well. i ended up using the broadcom-wl-4.150.10.5.tar.bz2 file that it tells you to get at [http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#fw-b43-new](http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#fw-b43-new)

once i installed that, i went to my additional drivers applet thats in there and disabling the drivers there and somehow it just works now. i'm not sure what i did, but i definitely followed that little sites guide. 

is there any easy way for me to find out? i googled a good bit and came up short as far as specific chipset this one uses. whatever it is that driver works fine tho.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-09-03
You could probably use the bcmwl-kernel-source package from the repositories to accomplish the same thing. On my system the b43 drivers were installed by default, but the STA (wl) driver was available in Additional Drivers, on my system, all I had to do was plug in a network cable and install them.

---

### Post by Hogmeister on 2010-09-03
I know I marked this solved last night, however when i woke up today I turned on the netbook to discover it wouldn't connect.. and no amount of finagling that I did yesterday was working today.

Since I couldn't get it to work at all, and I removed a number of icons on the side bar (i mentioned it in my other post), I simply reinstalled a fresh UNE beta this morning.

AAaaaanyway, its still unsolved, after reinstalling UNE i did as yuo suggested and with an ethernet cable plugged in i only enabled the STA drivers and i'm not seeing anything under Wireless Networks... its gray (same color as Wired Network) and underneath it is only showing disconnected being a darker gray. 

thanks for the suggestion, wonder why its not working though as the STA driver i had more luck w/ than anything else last night

EDIT: ok, out of sheer curiosity I tried ubuntu 10.04 and it works perfectly, initially i have to have an ethernet plugged in to enable the STA driver in jockey but once i enable it, i can unplug the ethernet.. reboot.. and it'll automatically connect no problem.. guess i'll stick with 10.04 for now until the 10.10 gets better, although i would enjoy testing things further if needed. thanks for all the help.

---

### Post by KristinaK on 2010-09-23
is it fixed in 10.10 now?

---

