---
title: "10.10 X won't load after update (ATI card)"
date: 2010-09-14
forum: Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Alexstre on 2010-09-14
Hello! I just updated to Maverick and I've had some issues with Xorg since. After the first boot I got "stuck" in console, so I Google'd a bit and read something about Ubuntu's setup not being able to properly uninstall the ATI drivers so I did:

sudo apt-get purge fglrx
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
startx

Which booted fine. I then got the ATI drivers from the website and created a Ubuntu/maverick .deb (actually it created 4 different files) and after the reboot it got stuck on a black screen. 

Not too sure what to do now. I'm pretty sure the link I had yesterday had all the steps to do this but the page is down now :/

---

### Post by SleeKism on 2010-09-14
I believe it may have something due to the x-server version in 10.10 not being supported by the ATI 10.8 drivers.

I however installed my drivers the same way as you and do have picture, just no xorg.conf or anything can be found. I am going to wait until 10.10 is final, that way ATI should release updated drivers.

---

### Post by Alexstre on 2010-09-14
> **SleeKism said:**
> I believe it may have something due to the x-server version in 10.10 not being supported by the ATI 10.8 drivers.

I however installed my drivers the same way as you and do have picture, just no xorg.conf or anything can be found. I am going to wait until 10.10 is final, that way ATI should release updated drivers.

That's what I thought too! but if you download the latest drivers (.run) from the ATI website and you list the packages you can see:

Ubuntu/maverick

I'm not sure if it's x-server that doesn't support the drivers, or the other way around? Something's clearly not being supported somewhere! :)

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-09-15
> **Alexstre said:**
> Hello! I just updated to Maverick and I've had some issues with Xorg since. After the first boot I got "stuck" in console, so I Google'd a bit and read something about Ubuntu's setup not being able to properly uninstall the ATI drivers so I did:

sudo apt-get purge fglrx
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
startx

Which booted fine. I then got the ATI drivers from the website and created a Ubuntu/maverick .deb (actually it created 4 different files) and after the reboot it got stuck on a black screen. 

Not too sure what to do now. I'm pretty sure the link I had yesterday had all the steps to do this but the page is down now :/

I wonder if you add nomodset to the end of the kernel in grub it might bootup.

Just hold down the shift when you start if you haven't been seeing grub, hit e for edit use the arrow keys to get to the end of the kernel line, put nomodset in then hit ctrl-x to boot. If this gets you in then you could add this to the kernel stanza so you can boot until you get the card set, just don't forget it is there.
```
gksudo gedit  /etc/default/grub
``` 

You will see in this file when opened; this line 
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
Change it to this,
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nomodset"
You might have other syntax then quiet splash but I think this shows what is needed.
Run ```
sudo update-grub
``` to add it to the kernel

This just may allow you to boot again without adding this at boot but remove it when fixing the driver problem and rebooting, since you will know how to add it if needed.

---

### Post by Spencer Caplan on 2010-09-18
I had the same problem where I have an ATI graphisc card, using fglrx as the driver, and after installing 10.10 from 10.04 X failed on startup and I was stuck in command line. I found a fix (workaround) that works for me and I think I know what may be goign on so I just thought I would share.

The kernel used in 10.04 didn't support most ATI cards out of the box so it needed the fglrx driver to run correctly while now the new kernel used in 10.10 does support the ATI cards out of the box so the fglrx driver is unneeded. During the upgrade to 10.10 Ubuntu tries to uninstall the fglrx driver but for whatever reason some components remain after install so when the system starts up again it tries to load the now half-deleted and fully unneeded fglrx driver which causes x to fail.

All one needs to do it "Sudo apt-get purge fglrx" and then "startx"
Ubuntu will try to uninstall all of fglrx (and fail again) but now the system doesn't try to reload it when you start x. So I don't know exactly the problem as to why fglrx won't be rid of but running "purge" on startup works for me.

---

### Post by Spencer Caplan on 2010-09-23
Well, aptitude gives errors when trying to remove fglrx, but if you just simply remove the fglrx files manually then everything is back to normal...

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2010-09-24
Alexstre

Question regarding Maverick should be in,

Maverick Meerkat Testing and Discussion
[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=385](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=385)

Cat 10.10 is now in repos to support Maverick as of today.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1549872](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1549872)
Post #69

Sharky

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-09-24
Moved to MMTnD.

---

### Post by phoenix137 on 2010-09-26
how does one find out which files to delete?

---

