---
title: "12.04 Works fine."
date: 2012-05-07
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by David Crockett on 2012-05-07
I see that htere are some unhappy campers out there.   But for me 12.04 works fine.    It has fixed my dual monitor issue that I had with 11.10 and 11.04.    I am using an old IBM IntelliStation M Pro.   I installed as a download without a hitch.   

 12.04 even works an a really archaic Gateway laptop I keep at home for backups.

I am a satisfied custumer.

Cheers,
David

---

### Post by goldshirt9 on 2012-05-07
well put sir ):P

---

### Post by roffisserver on 2012-05-07
I totally agree I am happy with the upgrade even if I didn't see very much change!

---

### Post by vVvSHADOWvVv on 2012-05-07
@everyone

I agree totally. 12.04 repaired my Alienware M17xR3 sound issue and dual monitor issue as long as some other simple issues.

&#7780;&#11367;&#480;&#7430;&#336;&#412;
shadowsgovernment.com

---

### Post by jnguyen on 2012-05-07
I'm totally agree too.I am happy with the upgrade even though the Lock Screen (Ctrl+Alt+L) not working with both click or key combination, but I can live with that.

---

### Post by ClarDold on 2012-06-01
> **David Crockett said:**
> It has fixed my dual monitor issue that I had with 11.10 and 11.04.    I am using an old IBM IntelliStation M Pro.

I have an IBM "IntelliStation M Pro (6220) and Windows XP" where I am trying to rescue some data from a failed WinXP disk, and move to Ubuntu at the same time.

I have moved other machines to varying levels of Ubuntu, all with good success, but the Intellistation is "different".

It won't boot my USB stick of either RHEL 6, or Ubuntu 11.10, indicating that there is no OS on the CDROM.  I think that is just a failing of the IBM BIOS.

It boots an Ubuntu 11.10 CDROM to a nice GUI, but there is no mouse activity from my PS2 mouse, just a cursor.  I switched to alt-ctrl-f2, where I see that my Belkin WiFi wasn't detected, which I am sure worked on another PC with 11.10.

Do you think I should pursue a later Ubuntu CD, or is there some knowledge base about the IBM Intellistation for Ubuntu that I could peruse?

-- 
Clarence

---

### Post by greenfrog on 2012-06-01
I clean installed 12.04 on my Toshiba Dual-core Pentium.
Moved my VBox machines over and everything runs great.

The only thing that does not run well is BOINC, but that is the
problem of the program, not the OS.

Works great for me. ):P ):P ):P

---

### Post by VE6EFR on 2012-06-01
I am very pleased with my install as well. I had a few minor issues but with some help from the community I was able to get everything working as it is supposed to.

Very stable, very secure and it runs the software that I need it to run. What more could one ask for in an OS?

---

