---
title: "11.04 reminded me of Vista"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by getmeoutofhere on 2011-04-29
I am not a tech-head, so I don't really know what the difference between Gnome and Unity is.  However the first thing that occurred to me with 11.04 was 'this reminds me of Vista'.  I suppose it might have been the ghastly side-bar on the left, with the 'in your face' icons.  And as with Vista, I couldn't find anything, at least to begin with.  It also seems that one has to go through extra steps to accomplish very simple tasks, but maybe I'm mistaken.

Of course I could have hung around to work out how to use the system, as I could have hung around with Vista.  In fact, the only thing I used 11.04 for was downloading the Fedora 14 iso.  I tried that, didn't like it, and moved back to Ubuntu 10.04.  Which is ironic, because two days ago I was using 10.10, but was having problems with the microphone.

As far as I can see, Ubuntu 10.04 works very nicely, and I'll stick with it for the immediate future.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2011-04-29
> getmeoutofhere
However the first thing that occurred to me with 11.04 was 'this reminds me of Vista'.
As far as I can see, Ubuntu 10.04 works very nicely, and I'll stick with it for the immediate future.

As for it looking like Vista (Hmmm). Keep in mind who may have been targeted. In order to increase customer base, companies often create products that simulate their competitors. Maybe not in functionality/performance, but rather appearance. IMHO Unity is only applicable to netbooks and even on my mini - I'm anything but impressed.

We decided to do precisely what you did on all five of our home systems. We have also installed XFCE on a couple of our systems in preparation for the time when 10.04 is no longer supported. I think that's 2013. Of course we will assess the situation at that time and make decisions based on what's available.

No reason to get excited. IMHO patience is a virtue, especially with when upgrading a free OS. I think another member said it best - if it ain't broke don't fix it. ;)

Thanks for sharing your feedback and Good Luck.

---

### Post by el_koraco on 2011-04-29
KDE is like Vista! unity is like Mac!

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-04-30
Just edited your post, take a look:

> **getmeoutofhere said:**
> I am not a tech-head, so I don't really know what the difference between Windows and Ubuntu is.  However the first thing that occurred to me with Ubuntu was 'this reminds me of Windows 95'.  I suppose it might have been the ghastly 1990s-style panels, with the dull icons.  And as with Vista, I couldn't find anything, at least to begin with.  It also seems that one has to go through extra steps to accomplish very simple tasks, but maybe I'm mistaken.

Of course I could have hung around to work out how to use the system, as I could have hung around with Vista.  In fact, I just didn't like it, and moved back to Windows XP.

As far as I can see, Windows XP works very nicely, and I'll stick with it for the immediate future.

We'd all get pretty annoyed if a newb posted this in the Testimonials and Experiences forum. We'd tell them that Ubuntu is a different system, it's not designed to be the same as what they're familiar with, but it IS better; even if it takes a little bit of time for them to get used to it.

---

### Post by Jerry N on 2011-04-30
> **el_koraco said:**
> KDE is like Vista! unity is like Mac!

I have never liked KDE in the past but I decided to try Kubuntu 11.04 to see if I liked it.  I suppose I could get used to it but every time I tried to change something I felt like I was in one of those "running in quicksand" kind of bad dreams.  I am presently reinstalling Mint 9 - it feels much smoother and cleaner to me.  Obviously other folks have different views on the matter.

Jerry

---

### Post by el_koraco on 2011-04-30
You need some patience to get used to and some juice to utilize KDE, but once you do, brother. I'm not using it right now, but it's the best desktop in the world.

---

### Post by jblah on 2011-04-30
i just disable unity all together from compiz and used cairo-dock as my way to interact with everything. simple and it works :)

---

### Post by Yoast on 2011-04-30
I just auto-upgraded. I was pleased to see Firefox 4.0 and some other new things included (Libreoffice). Unfortunately Digikam will have to wait a while for face-recognisiton (June). 
I do not particularly like Unity, but I quickly discovered I could just select "Ubuntu Classic" on logging in to get the old 10.10 / Gnome interface.
I'll give Unity a couple of tries later on. As far as I can tell 11.04 is just another upgrade. Same quality OS and apps, new UI which can be selected or not.
I certainly would not revert to 10.10, rather select whether I want Gnome, KDE or Unity. 
just my 2c.

---

### Post by jdrodrig on 2011-04-30
> **getmeoutofhere said:**
> I am not a tech-head, so I don't really know what the difference between Gnome and Unity is.  However the first thing that occurred to me with 11.04 was 'this reminds me of Vista'.  I suppose it might have been the ghastly side-bar on the left, with the 'in your face' icons.  And as with Vista, I couldn't find anything, at least to begin with.  It also seems that one has to go through extra steps to accomplish very simple tasks, but maybe I'm mistaken.

Of course I could have hung around to work out how to use the system, as I could have hung around with Vista.  In fact, the only thing I used 11.04 for was downloading the Fedora 14 iso.  I tried that, didn't like it, and moved back to Ubuntu 10.04.  Which is ironic, because two days ago I was using 10.10, but was having problems with the microphone.

As far as I can see, Ubuntu 10.04 works very nicely, and I'll stick with it for the immediate future.

Thanks for sharing.

I guess this goes to show the benefit of having LTS releases (as the 10.04) as backup. Glad to hear you are not moving away from linux.

---

### Post by getmeoutofhere on 2011-05-01
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Just edited your post, take a look:



We'd all get pretty annoyed if a newb posted this in the Testimonials and Experiences forum. We'd tell them that Ubuntu is a different system, it's not designed to be the same as what they're familiar with, but it IS better; even if it takes a little bit of time for them to get used to it.

3rdalbum,

This is a Testimonials and Experience forum.  It's about my subjective experiences.  11.04 reminded ME of Vista.  It did not remind me of Windows 95.  As for Apple Macs, I have little idea what Apple Mac products look like, because I don't and have never used them.

The Testimonials and Experiences of non-technical people are just as valid as anyone else's.  In fact, arguably more valid, because if Ubuntu can't address itself to a mass market of non-technical people, it's unlikely to get very far.

And as I say, I have not given up on Ubuntu - I have gone back to 10.04, which in my subjective experience works far better than 10.10 or 11.04.  And as I use Windows XP all the time, I definitely know the difference between Ubuntu and Windows XP.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-05-01
My point was not that you've gone back to an earlier version of Ubuntu, or that something reminded you of something else.

My point was that you went back because something was different to what you are used to, and you didn't give yourself a chance to get familiar with it and accept it for what it is. We get annoyed when newbies do this; say "I tried Ubuntu for three hours and it's too difficult, Windows XP is better, I'm going back".

You should give yourself some time to become familiar with Unity and take advantage of its good features. Unity is, on the whole, as good as regular Gnome 2 was. I'm looking forward to the next iteration of Unity which will really be something special.

---

