---
title: "11.04 first impression"
date: 2011-12-13
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by 4dognight on 2011-12-13
Upgraded from 10.04 to 11.04. Upgrade went smooth, which was nice.
BUT, I was not liking the new Unity desktop. It really turned me off.
What was worse was I was not given the choice on installation as to whether I wanted to switch my desktop. You would think an upgrade would keep the desktop the same. I can see a new install, using unity,but not an upgrade.
I was so disappointed I went back to 10.04.
I dont like that big of a change being thrust on to me. Reminds me of windows mentality.
If this sounds like a complaint . it is.  I have been using ubuntu since 8.04, and this didnt impress me. Next version better not force a new desktop on me, or Im switching to linuxmint.

Ok, I feel better now that I have made my complaint. ;)

---

### Post by wazupwiop on 2011-12-13
After you enter/select your username, you can switch back to Gnome 2 at the login screen.  Most people miss it.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-12-13
You could have just logged out and log back into "Ubuntu Classic" and then make it the default. 11.04 is a lot better than 10.04 performance wise. Evenn 10.10 is better.

---

### Post by 4dognight on 2011-12-13
Well I definitely missed it then.
Still think an upgrade should not change your chosen desktop. A fresh install,ok, but not an upgrade.

Well, Im in no hurry to go try it again. So maybe I will wait till the next release.

---

### Post by philinux on 2011-12-13
> **4dognight said:**
> Well I definitely missed it then.
Still think an upgrade should not change your chosen desktop. A fresh install,ok, but not an upgrade.

Well, Im in no hurry to go try it again. So maybe I will wait till the next release.

Just curious. Did you read the release notes on ubuntu's website. 

 [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NattyNarwhal/ReleaseNotes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NattyNarwhal/ReleaseNotes)

It states quite clearly that Unity is the new default DE. That would therefore apply to upgrades too.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-12-14
> **4dognight said:**
> Well I definitely missed it then.
Still think an upgrade should not change your chosen desktop.

Your chosen desktop is actually "ubuntu-desktop". In the past, this was Gnome with small modifications.

In 11.04 and later, the default desktop is still "ubuntu-desktop", with some larger modifications than previously.

In any case the release notes detailed the changes.

Comparing it to Windows is ridiculous. You don't get the option to change back to the old version of the desktop on Windows.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-12-15
> **3rdalbum said:**
>  
Comparing it to Windows is ridiculous. You don't get the option to change back to the old version of the desktop on Windows.
 
actually you do. sort of... you can easilly make winxp look like win98. the theme is called windows classic i believe. 
 
not sure if this is also possible in win7.
 
but yeah you can't go really back to old DE in windows. just the old look. which is porbably what the user here wanted. and they could get it with gnome classic.
 
new kernel, new DE (gnome3) and new interface. it all seems very logical to me. after all upgrade shouldn't always be the same and have same look as 15 years ago. what would be the point of that? there would be no progress then.

---

### Post by philinux on 2011-12-22
Thanks all thread closed.

---

