---
title: "7.10 Astonishingly Good"
date: 2007-11-05
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Gary Nored on 2007-11-05
I just set up gutsy on a generic box, made it dual boot with windows xp, and I must say that this version is an astonishing improvement over the 6.x I've been using on another box. For example the system found my printer and my scanner instantly, and both worked right out of the box. Gone are the agonizing days of Cups. I tried it on an old box at work, and it was even able to find a network printer and set it up with a couple of clicks (I'd given up on ever printing from 6.x). The repartitioning choices it made were excellent, and the speed! 

My kudos to the wonderful folk on the Ubuntu team. This is an excellent job!

Gary

---

### Post by mrvertigo on 2007-11-05
good to hear Gary! spread the word!

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2007-11-05
I have to agree wholeheartedly with Gary.  I've been on ubuntu now since 5.04 and each time it has got better and better.  I've always added kubuntu-desktop in the past as I liked kde more than gnome, but this time it's gnome all the way, though slightly kde'd with k3b and kmymoney2.  K3b is the best CD burning software on any platform, in my opinion, and I had to have it, and I have all my financial data on kmymoney so that was needed too.

I also installed kcontrol simply to easily add some needed fonts which is not so simple in gnome as far as I can make out, though I've now uninstalled the package again, having used it for its purpose.

So, well done to the developers, yet again.  At this rate we'll be getting even more press coverage than we have been in the past, and even more people will agree that it is a serious challenge to MS and windows.

---

