---
title: "10.04, and the significance of LTS.  Some food for thought"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by toupeiro on 2010-05-02
It's been a long time since I made a post in the testimonials, but I think its warranted.

People contribute to ubuntu in many different ways.  Some people help out on the support forums, some people try to fix bugs, other people provide individual support and promotion.  Since I've been using ubuntu, I've personally helped over 50 people on their decision to try ubuntu, and that number is also relevant to the number of people who have been using ubuntu now for almost a year, in some cases longer.  Many of them enjoy doing "fresh installs" of ubuntu because, its so easy to do.

This release of ubuntu, from a fresh install point of view, was very disruptive.  Gimp, is completely gone, window buttons were completely switched around, ubuntu one and gwibber are, for lack of a better definition, broken.  This weekend, I've dealt with more disappointed ubuntu users than I ever have before.  Some of the users I give ubuntu to have, with no coaching from me, asked "Why would they take something like gimp away and replace it with something that doesn't even work right like this facebook program?"  How about, "Why would they change their interface like this on a long term support version, before testing it out on one of the other versions first?  All fair questions, in my opinion.

I think ubuntu, as a project, is dangerously close to completely losing it's focus.  I'm not saying there were no good things in this release, there were.  But, you have sacrificed functionality and content for CD image size and closed-focus agenda's without weighing in the community's feelings on it.  I've seen it, firsthand.  You no longer consider the communities view and voice important.  We are easily discarded, but make no mistake about it, we are the reason ubuntu has the visibility that it does.  If you continue to ignore your community, your community will find another place to go where its voice counts, like it used to here.

There has been plenty, **plenty** of feedback, in forums and through the proper channels, not to implement some of these changes.  By my counts alone,not online counts, but personal counts, you've lost in the neighborhood of 20 casual users in one weekend.  These are the users **you really do not want to lose**  I can make this OS do anything I want, my needs are the least of your worries, but you are now starting to lose appeal of your target customerbase.

I hope you restore some value to the voice of your community, and to the types of changes you make to your LTS versions.  I'm always, **always** willing to help in any way possible.  I wouldn't waste my time writing this here if I didn't care.  I have a very busy life away from my private technology interests, yet I choose to do this because up until now, I felt like what I did here, and by promoting and spreading knowledge of ubuntu, meant something.  It doesn't feel like it means that much anymore, unfortunately.  Hopefully this falls under the eyes of someone who wont scoff at it, but recognises the honesty and candidness of it.  If this does get scoffed at and dismissed, it pretty much confirms everything it details.

-T.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-05-02
I don't understand why people leave messages for Canonical here. It would seem that making a good business case to Canonical is more useful.

---

### Post by toupeiro on 2010-05-02
Because a good portion of ubuntu's development, testing, and support model is volunteer.  I don't get checks in the mail from canonical, or anyone, for working out gwibber/couchDB issues, or wine regression testing.  There are those, however, who can read the forums who are in more influential positions with Canonical who can make cases on the communities behalf.  Surely, you can understand this concept?

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-05-02
I'm sorry, I don't follow. Canonical makes the ultimate decisions, unless you are talking about a fork. Persuading them would seem to be the important thing.

Unless you are wanting to gauge the level of community support before approaching Canonical. That would make sense to me.

---

### Post by toupeiro on 2010-05-02
Canonical won't make desisions if the majority of their community has an opportunity to voice against them, and does voice against them, because their product **_requires_** a community of support and practice to succeed.   That does require them to be in the know of their communities feedback, which is why my first, and anyones first stage of recourse, should always be here, where the community has eyes and ears.

Let me ask you something,  If you have a problem at work, to you go to your boss first, or do you IMMEDIATELY go above his/her head?

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2010-05-02
I haven't worked for a boss for a number of years, so I'm not the best person to answer that question. Hypothetically, I would think about where the best place was to start, which might be my co-workers, immediate boss, HR or even union, depending on what the issue and the company structure was.

Actually, I realise I'm using this forum for debate, which I'm not supposed to, so I'll apologise and quit now.

---

### Post by toupeiro on 2010-05-02
> **Irihapeti said:**
>  Hypothetically, I would think about where the best place was to start, which might be my co-workers, immediate boss, HR or even union, depending on what the issue and the company structure was.



Hmm, co-workers, project leads, developers, forum moderators, canonical empoloyed people, upstream project devs.. Yeah, I am pretty sure most if not all of these people do/should have forum accounts.  This is the best and most prudent juncture to _start_ an issue like this, IMO.  

You don't go to the brass talking about workforce reform without seeing if the workforce is behind it.  I'm expressing one viewpoint, from one person in real-world circumstances, hoping there are others in the same boat who will respond because one already has.  That is how things are supposed to happen in environments like this, again, IMO..  I, as a single person, carry no weight calling Canonical, but Ubuntu's community speaking up is another story.  If Canonical starts to ignore the voices of their community, that exposes a pretty significant problem, and they will lose the support of the community.  I dont think they want that.  


I understand that this isn't a democracy, but I don't think Canonical wants to be considered a pure dictatorship in a FOSS society.  That, in itself, is a recipe for desertion and disaster.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-02
Interesting post Toupeiro. I will refrain from going point-by-point because honestly I have not had a chance to test drive 10.04 yet. :) I just wanted to say "kudos" for introducing so many people to Linux. If a few of them leave Ubuntu to try other distros, don't feel bad... it is a rite of passage that many Linux users go through. There are hundreds of Linux distros, and somewhere out there is a perfect fit for each and every one of us. :)

---

### Post by toupeiro on 2010-05-02
> **snowpine said:**
> Interesting post Toupeiro. I will refrain from going point-by-point because honestly I have not had a chance to test drive 10.04 yet. :) I just wanted to say "kudos" for introducing so many people to Linux. If a few of them leave Ubuntu to try other distros, don't feel bad... it is a rite of passage that many Linux users go through. There are hundreds of Linux distros, and somewhere out there is a perfect fit for each and every one of us. :)

I appreciate your response, snowpine.  My issue isn't that ubuntu lost a few people I've onboarded, my issue is why they left.  Most of them asked me to put windows back in place, which I am more than willing to do.  I'm not ever going to force them to use something they don't like, but to me it sends a powerful message about the path this OS is on.  If I said nothing, I feel like I wouldn't be doing my part to try to protect and preserve an issue that I find extremely fundamental to ubuntu's purpose: "Linux for human beings," and all that it implies.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2010-05-03
Though for some things it logical they included/excluded them, however i never understood why not offer a choice to the consumers. For example eventhough GIMP is not installed why not offer it for a download before installation ends. Same with contorversial buttons. why not give the choice before instalation finishes  (as they plan to have in Mint) where you want the buttons to be.

---

### Post by GodLikeCreature on 2010-05-03
Very nice post from the OP.

I very much agree with most of it, I feel Canonical is really losing focus here.  

An LTS is a serious deal and should have consistency and stability at the very top of priorities.  I am thinking what my company would say if Windows simply changed the window buttons on their next SP release.  How about bringing up a "social desktop"??  Who cares when companies usually close ports for any such application?

In my opinion, Canonical has failed in understanding the importance of an LTS release and what potential customers will think of such changes, which bring ZERO benefit in a corporate environment, but lots of efforts in support.  

In my opinion, Canonical should have concentrated SOLELY on fixing the many old defects which are still open, fixing all of the issues Karmic had, ensuring backwards upgrade compatibility to old releases, specially 8.04 and finally working on a proper branding shift.  In other words, Lucid should have been a rock solid Karmic with a proper branding update.  Canonical would then have a very solid foundation from which they could implement "nice to have" things, such as the window button changes, the "social desktop", etc.

---

### Post by Ms_Angel_D on 2010-05-03
Toupeiro thank you very much for your input and feedback, it was well written, and feedback is always appreciated.

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2010-05-03
[COLOR="Purple"]I seem to remember reading similar posts when 8.04 was released - justly so, 8.04 had its fair share of issues, but it turned out to be a very solid desktop, and that's what the LTS is about, isn't it? 
I too think that extra software options during the installation would be a great idea, and I'm sure the devs thought about it too. - It might not be as easy to implement as it is to conceive of though.
Most Gnu/Linux operating systems are dependent on their developer/user-community to implement changes and work through issues, and most likely, any problems that the Lucid Lynx might be experiencing will be resolved as quickly and efficiently as the issues/bugs of previous releases. 

As per usual, thanks - and may the fork be with you.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2010-05-03
You might do better if you explain more of the reasons why those 20 users left, as I have a hard time believing that it was all down to the new theme and lack of GIMP. You can change a theme in a few seconds and install GIMP in a few minutes while you remove those broken apps. 
I agree with what points you have made, but I think each Ubuntu release will only ever contain small steps (both forwards and backwards) in functionality with large surface changes. Most of the community seems to thrive on this as well, as most threads anticipating Lucid were all about the new branding (which should be last on the list of features IMO) or default appearance. The main things holding back Ubuntu from being a better OS are mostly out of the hands of Canonical (eg hardware support) which is why they have to come up with some new gimmick every 6 months.

---

