---
title: "11.10 causing all sorts of problems"
date: 2012-02-06
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by LLCoolJeff on 2012-02-06
is it normal to run into a whole lot of problems when upgrading to 11.10?

I installed it on an extra drive I had and it gave me all sorts of problems, firefox wouldnt open from a dock, terminal wouldn't open from dock, monitor resolution could not be resized, and it goes on and on and on, I can't even remember it all.

Are these sorts of problems normal, or did I just get screwed for some reason?

I guess I am going back to 10.xx for now.. I am new to linux, but it seems to me that the LTS's are just always going to be less buggy and more stable and compatible than the newer releases...

Is this correct?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2012-02-06
I've had none of your problems with 11.10, but it would have been too presumptuous of me to claim that my own experience is normal or not, or that 11.10 is problems free.
Use what's best for you.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-02-06
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu Testimonials & Experiences**.*

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-02-06
If you are going back to 10.04, which might be a good idea, it means that you are doing a backup and reinstall. 

When doing this you also have the option of a fresh install of 11.10

If you want more advice, best is to open a thread in the support forum.

---

### Post by Version Dependency on 2012-02-06
> **LLCoolJeff said:**
> Are these sorts of problems normal, or did I just get screwed for some reason?

Sounds like an upgrade gone bad.  Upgrading can be hit and miss some times.  Best to just wipe it clean and do a fresh install.

---

