---
title: "10.04 - What a Nightmare"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Rival11 on 2010-05-01
Ugh, I was so frustrated and let down by this release - I can't even give it a try because after I finally managed to get it installed....It didn't want to cooperate with my nvidia graphics card so I was left with hearing the Ubuntu drums while looking at a blank screen.

I had to re-install 9.10 and what's even worse is the 277+ updates I had to once again download and re-install.

Hey, I love Ubuntu just as much as the next person but this has to be the worst release ever.

And I don't want to hear "but it's free man, you should deal with it" Yeah, it's free but that doesn't mean that they are allowed to cause me hours of headache for no reason.  There should have been a disclaimer on the main download page warning you that more than likely, 10.04 will not work for you.

I was so hoping this would be as easy as 9.10 but now I can't even us the new version and will prob have to wait until the next release - "3 years in the making"............"for you not to be able to use it".

---

### Post by Pappy2003 on 2010-05-01
You could have run the 10.04 live cd without installing to find out if there were any incompatibilities and saved yourself a lot of trouble.

---

### Post by nexoncore on 2010-05-01
Just because it doesn't work perfectly for you does not mean its the worst release. I have experienced a fair share of problems myself with this upgrade but worked around them and got what I needed in the end.

At first I couldn't even load the live CD environment due to incompatibilities with a brand new motherboard. But the large portion of people now running 10.04 have not had a single problem. Nvidia has always been a pain for any OS other than windows, have you tried running the OS in low graphics mode, or even tried another fresh install since there's a possibility that your install may have corrupted?

---

### Post by Rival11 on 2010-05-01
Pappy - that's the problem, I was able to get installed, did the standard install for the graphics driver, and on multiple reboots was just left with no display at all - I then killed my entire drive and did a fresh install again with the same results.

nexoncore - see above.  I've also tried running from the CD without installing all that does is send my pc into sleep mode.

The point is, I've  never had this much trouble with any of the past versions and there are just no excuses for the problems I am experiencing - there really aren't.  I'm REALLY hoping that in a month or so they will update the image download but I don't see that happening (but again, I'm hoping I'm wrong).

---

### Post by NFblaze on 2010-05-01
This was a damn good release. I only have one problem which is that Ubuntu One got messed up but that was probably due to my own ineptitude. 

No complaints here. I even started with the RC!

---

### Post by Wiebelhaus on 2010-05-01
> **NFblaze said:**
> This was a damn good release. I only have one problem which is that Ubuntu One got messed up but that was probably due to my own ineptitude. 

No complaints here. I even started with the RC!


Aye , Same song different dance with every release. :)

---

### Post by nexoncore on 2010-05-01
My only other suggestion then is install 9.10 and go for the dist-upgrade option.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-01
> **Rival11 said:**
> Ugh, I was so frustrated and let down by this release - I can't even give it a try because after I finally managed to get it installed....It didn't want to cooperate with my nvidia graphics card so I was left with hearing the Ubuntu drums while looking at a blank screen.

I had to re-install 9.10 and what's even worse is the 277+ updates I had to once again download and re-install.

Hey, I love Ubuntu just as much as the next person but this has to be the worst release ever.

And I don't want to hear "but it's free man, you should deal with it" Yeah, it's free but that doesn't mean that they are allowed to cause me hours of headache for no reason.  There should have been a disclaimer on the main download page warning you that more than likely, 10.04 will not work for you.

I was so hoping this would be as easy as 9.10 but now I can't even us the new version and will prob have to wait until the next release - "3 years in the making"............"for you not to be able to use it".

Have you a launchpad account, if so you need to raise a bug. Also what graphics card is it.

---

### Post by twomoons on 2010-05-01
Have got the same problem myself.  Runs fine in Live CD mode.  Yet when i install it, I get a flashing cursor and my screen flashing black.  Tried to install 3 times now.  9.10 runs without a problem.

I can't do an upgrade to pull down all the patches as I'm on a broadband dongle which very rarely works with ubuntu.

---

### Post by twomoons on 2010-05-01
Also, have had to reinstall XP so i actually have a working system.  Installed VWWare Workstation, installed 10.04 and at login screen the keyboard doesn't work!

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-01
@twomoons
Without providing system specs no one can help.

---

### Post by cap10Ibraim on 2010-05-01
> **Rival11 said:**
>  hours of headache for no reason. 
totally true specially for those dual booting with windows ](*,)

---

### Post by John Bean on 2010-05-01
> **Rival11 said:**
> Hey, I love Ubuntu just as much as the next person but this has to be the worst release ever.

Much as I sympathise I have a very different experience, quite the reverse of yours. Lucid installed (almost) flawlessly and is without a doubt the best version so far for me. Karmic was a bad joke in my case, it behaved like unfinished beta software. I reverted to Jaunty and hoped the forthcoming Lucid would iron out the many wrinkles in Karmic. I didn't wait in vain.

> I was so hoping this would be as easy as 9.10

9.10 easy? Not for me it wasn't... but 10.04 most certainly was.

---

### Post by twomoons on 2010-05-01
MSI AMD 680 MBoard
AMD Phenom 2 x4 BE @3.1Ghz
2 x 2 GB DDR3 1066
1 x ATI Radeon 2400 Pro 512MB
1 x Western Digital 500 GB SATA2 (Main Drive)
1 x Samsung 1TB SATA2
1 x Liteon 24 x DVD-RW
1 x LG 22" TFT

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2010-05-01
Every computer is different and will have different difficulties with various OSes. I know some that Windows 7 just won't work with their hardware too well, I know others (myself included) that everything is flawless - same with Ubuntu and Kubuntu. My hardware works perfect, ati drivers and all - others I've read, can't get anything to work right.

So I'm not offended (I'm not a developer of this os though) that you say this is the worst release ever, as for your hardware it may be, but this is a community and we'll help you work towards getting everything working to a satisfactory condition.

I'm almost sure the developers aren't offended, as its constructive criticism for seeing where bugs may be in the OS for the video card. - I thought 9.10 was a horrible release personally cause none of my wireless drivers worked properly - 10 min. connected to wireless then couldn't connect afterwards.

Just my 2 cents.

---

### Post by patleamon on 2010-05-01
10.04 seems less polished than I would expect from an LTS release.  I too get the cursor on a black screen then a completely black screen on startup.  Sometimes it then manages to show a corrupted splash screen for a few seconds before starting the login manager, other times it doesn't do anything and I give up after a few minutes of watching my hard drive light flash on and off.

My situation:
Running ubuntu x64
Upgraded (via update manager) from a clean 9.10 install
AMD X2 5600
2gb ram
1.5tb western digital green drive
256mb nvidia 7600

---

### Post by twomoons on 2010-05-01
Well nothing is overclocked, I've also tried a new ATI 5670 1GB but to no avail.  Will try onboard graphics instead.  Shame as I use ubuntu in work and have converted quite a few people :(  Was really looking forward to this release.

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2010-05-01
Ya know I don't know if I'm still on the RC or if I have the RTM, when I ran dist-upgrade I had 1 update that's it.

Specs:
Gateway NV53
AMD Athlon II X2 M300
ATI Radeon 4200 IGP - 256MB VRAM
4GB RAM
etc.

---

### Post by Zyonin on 2010-05-01
Thus far, Lucid is working nicely.   I had some early problems with a bad ISO but a redownload/burn fixed that.   Now my only issue is Compiz, Ubuntu Tweak and some Python libs don't seem to be playing nicely.   Not really sure who is to blame there...

However other that annoying issue (and it's an annoyance right now, nothing system breaking), Lucid is humming along nicely.   Then again, I have pretty old hardware were most of the quirks are known and things are coded for those quirks or there are workarounds.   I would expect those those with cutting edge hardware may have problems.   Been there, done that, got the T-shirt.

---

### Post by bdvd on 2010-05-01
i desagree, for me is the best distribution ever!

---

### Post by tekkidd on 2010-05-01
Every ubuntu release has had issues right at the release. When ubuntu 9.04 came out it had numerous bugs but and same story with 9.10. Lucid is no different, i will expect that it will be june or july before all the kinks get worked out of it. I would suggest for future releases you hold off upgrading ans read the ubuntu forums to see if people are having issues. 

I have a desktop that i just recently (last two weeks) upgraded to karmik and a laptop that still runs jaunty. Both run like a rock.

My best suggestion to you is to go back to 9.10 and wait for a month or two before upgrading

---

### Post by twomoons on 2010-05-01
Well it looks like i'll have to go back to 9.10.  Was hoping 10.04 might have sorted out my huwaei mobile dongle problem out.  Think it's time for a VM 9.10 on my XP Box :(  Funny thing is, i have an old P4 Dell Optiplex in work and it installed and ran on there like a dream.  Really wanted to use it at home as well though :(

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-05-01
Who is it the worst release for, you, or everyone? Works perfect here. Actually best ever for me. This release seems to have less complaints than most I have seen. Match the OS to the hardware and be happy. (choices)

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2010-05-01
> **Pappy2003 said:**
> You could have run the 10.04 live cd without installing to find out if there were any incompatibilities and saved yourself a lot of trouble.

Not so.  CD Live runs fine on this 2 GHZ tower with intel video graphics.  Checked md5sum's, checked for errors on CD, just fine.

First install from "run CD without changing" booted up but then my user couldn't log on because "cannot cd to /home/jerry",  No clue.  The folder is there just fine.  Nothing in forums.

O.K., re-install but select the install from the first boot menu.  Ran for a while and then went black screen.  Dead.  Nothing works except power off.  CD Live does not have this problem.

Read the release notes:
On boot up, edit the linux boot line to add i915.modeset=0.

Boot in recovery mode and with nano add a file called /etc/X11/xorg.conf containing
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "vesa"
EndSection

then reboot.  gedit /etc/default/grub to put the i915.modeset=0 after splash, then run sudo update-grub.

CD Live didn't need any of that.

By the way, Karmic 9.10 runs as is solid as a rock.

Jerry

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-05-01
I had no problems installing the nVidia drivers nor running 10.04 on two machines with ATI graphics.

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-05-01
> **jerrylamos said:**
> Not so.  CD Live runs fine on this 2 GHZ tower with intel video graphics.  Checked md5sum's, checked for errors on CD, just fine.

First install from "run CD without changing" booted up but then my user couldn't log on because "cannot cd to /home/jerry",  No clue.  The folder is there just fine.  Nothing in forums.

O.K., re-install but select the install from the first boot menu.  Ran for a while and then went black screen.  Dead.  Nothing works except power off.  CD Live does not have this problem.

Read the release notes:
On boot up, edit the linux boot line to add i915.modeset=0.

Boot in recovery mode and with nano add a file called /etc/X11/xorg.conf containing
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "vesa"
EndSection

then reboot.  gedit /etc/default/grub to put the i915.modeset=0 after splash, then run sudo update-grub.

CD Live didn't need any of that.

By the way, Karmic 9.10 runs as is solid as a rock.

Jerry

If 9.10 works, go for it. Try again when 10.04.1 comes out in a couple months. If it didn't work for me, I would just move on and use what did work. But it doesn't mean it's a bad release. OpenSuse never worked great for me, but I would never say it's bad because of that. There isn't an OS on the planet that will work with every possible hardware configuration.

I can definitely say I'm happy I build my own. Then I'm guaranteed good results.

---

### Post by PhilGil on 2010-05-01
> **twomoons said:**
> Funny thing is, i have an old P4 Dell Optiplex in work and it installed and ran on there like a dream.
Here is a textbook example of how different one person's experience can be to another's, even on similar hardware.  My work computer is also an elderly P4 Dell Optiplex.  I couldn't run either Karmic or Lucid on this machine as a problem with support for the onboard graphics caused the computer to crash at random intervals.  The only way to recover was to re-boot.  I never had a problem with Jaunty.  I finally gave up troubleshooting the onboard graphics and installed an old ATI video card I wasn't using.  I then installed Lucid and the computer has been crash-free ever since.

Does this mean that Karmic and Lucid were the worst releases ever?  Of course not - it just means it's exceedingly difficult to build an OS that works for every possible combination of components in a PC.

---

### Post by Deejay35 on 2010-05-01
Well, I've just installed 10.04 on my 3 gig  P4 machine dual booting Windows XP  without the slightest problem, and this has been the case with every release since Warty. At present I run Ubuntu on 3 computers, have installed it on 4 others for friends, and have never had a problem. Of course these are not cutting edge boxes. The friends are like me old timers, one over 80 with no previous computer experience, and they all surf the net, send emails etc. happily and trouble free. My Ubuntu experience has always been positive. Cheers, Duncan.

---

### Post by BrokeMahPC on 2010-05-01
UPDATE BIOS
I had some problems with the Betas and RC most of which were resolved by updating my BIOS and boot with default settings.

I remembered I had been messing about when I first got the PC and also had not updated the BIOS for 18months.
With KMS now with us it's probably essential to have your BIOS power management and acpi settings right. Try the above - it sorted things out for me. A fresh install was flawless.

I did have to change the boot order to get the DVD drive to boot the live CD.

---

### Post by kamikazepsi on 2010-05-01
To everyone having the same problem that the original poster has, don't give up...this problem is widespread and there's an easy fix for it.  

Since this is a brand new release, there's all sorts of information being thrown around so i could understand the frustration. 

What WinterRain posted will work, but there's also another way. 

Anyways, here's what's going on:

1) you do a fresh install
2) after the first reboot, you get a blank screen or a monitor message saying "out of range/sync"
3) the lights on your computer is still indicating activity
4) if your sound card was detected right away, you'll hear the start up sounds

at this point, wait a few seconds to let your computer boot up while you are blind

5) hit control+alt+del to bring up the shut down menu
6) hit enter and shut down
7) power on and wait for your bios to clear
8) if you see a the grub menu, hit "e" if not, hold "shift" until the grub menu comes up, then hit "e"
9) replace "quiet splash" with "nomodeset"
10) hit "ctrl+x"

you'll now get a working display and once you get into your system, enable your restricted video driver

once you're up and running, you may see a problem w/ your startup/shutdown splash....there is an easy for this fix as well. 
[http://idyllictux.wordpress.com/2010/04/26/lucidubuntu-10-04-high-resolution-plymouth-virtual-terminal-for-atinvidia-cards-with-proprietaryrestricted-driver/](http://idyllictux.wordpress.com/2010/04/26/lucidubuntu-10-04-high-resolution-plymouth-virtual-terminal-for-atinvidia-cards-with-proprietaryrestricted-driver/)

---

### Post by javyn999 on 2010-05-01
Looking forward to trying 10.04.  9.10 is broken, for me at least.  If 10.04 isn't good for me, I'll downgrade to Jaunty, but I'm excited about installing my first LTS.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-05-01
Try the LiveCD first.

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-05-02
I don't look at any OS as good or bad, does it work on my hardware, or does it not? Those are the only questions I need answered. Match the right OS to the hardware in question, and move forward. That's how a true techie does it.

It's like walking into a hardware store to get a hammer, but you wind up buying any old model, then complaining it doesn't do the job. You need to find the right hammer for the job at hand.

---

### Post by murderslastcrow on 2010-05-02
I won't say, "it's free, what do you expect," since we all know we can expect a lot from open source or there wouldn't be so many of us using it.

But I think just as no one should say "it's free, yadda yadda," it's a bit unfair to claim Ubuntu 10.04 the worst release ever simply because it was the worst release FOR YOU, right on opening week.

Does this mean the Gnome developers did a bad job, since you couldn't see their progress? Or that Banshee sucks because simply because you can't see its interface? A lot of projects go into Ubuntu, so you should really place blame where blame is deserved, rather than generalizing the whole OS as 'worst ever'.

At least you still have Karmic! :D I know you love Ubuntu as much as the next person, and I probably over-exaggerated what you meant by worst. Just hope things work out better for you in the future, bud.

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-05-02
> **javyn999 said:**
> Looking forward to trying 10.04.  9.10 is broken, for me at least.  If 10.04 isn't good for me, I'll downgrade to Jaunty, but I'm excited about installing my first LTS.

If you've ever done charts in school, you've heard of a bell curve.
[IMG]http://classes.kumc.edu/sah/resources/sensory_processing/images/bell_curve.gif[/IMG]
The best Canonical can hope for is something similar as far as how the OS works for people. Most people will fall into the center part, fewer on the edges. This is true of a lot of things in life. It doesn't make it bad though. Considering the number of different computers in the world, I'm surprised it works as well as it does on so many computers. I tip my hat to the devs.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-05-02
> **WinterRain said:**
> If you've ever done charts in school, you've heard of a bell curve.
The best Canonical can hope for is something similar as far as how the OS works for people. Most people will fall into the center part, fewer on the edges. This is true of a lot of things in life. It doesn't make it bad though. Considering the number of different computers in the world, I'm surprised it works as well as it does on so many computers. I tip my hat to the devs.
Shame on you! Doing homework for ubuntu. :lolflag:

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2010-05-02
Well - welcome to Linux.

Sometimes you need to work on it a little bit to get it to run well.

Purchasing hardware from System76, which comes preinstalled with Ubuntu, would probably solve your issues.

Unsupported hardware is the biggest headache of running Linux, especially if your hardware is the unsupported variety.

Just tackle one issue at a time and things should be OK.

We've all been there from time to time.

---

### Post by javyn999 on 2010-05-02
Okay, finally finished getting it installed and configured.  So far so great, wonderful even.  All the problems and broken apps in Karmic seems to have been fixed for me now.  Also runs very fast.  Awesome!

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-05-02
> **javyn999 said:**
> Okay, finally finished getting it installed and configured.  So far so great, wonderful even.  All the problems and broken apps in Karmic seems to have been fixed for me now.  Also runs very fast.  Awesome!
:P Sweet!

---

### Post by javyn999 on 2010-05-02
Yeah.  I have been trying to run Linux since the 90s but always hit a wall with hardware or driver issues.  

Now comes Ubuntu...and what a reversal!  It took only a few hours and I got 10.04 installed and completely configured (thanks to a script I wrote last month in preparation to apt-get install all my fave apps and such).

Now, it's Windows and its wonky driver issues that I dread dealing with.  I am always happy that when I do an Ubuntu install, it just works.  Period.

---

### Post by cj.surrusco on 2010-05-02
I think it's great update, boots almost twice as fast for me. But they still haven't gotten any better ipod support..

---

### Post by javyn999 on 2010-05-02
Not only does it boot faster, but it's very fast and responsive to use.  I was actually preparing to strip Gnome this time around and install LXDE.  Now, I don't have to worry about it.  It's flawless.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-05-02
> **cj.surrusco said:**
> I think it's great update, boots almost twice as fast for me. But they still haven't gotten any better ipod support..
Really, you should search that out. There is supposed to be a program that works with the iPod 100%.

---

### Post by sixthwheel on 2010-05-02
> **uRock said:**
> Really, you should search that out. There is supposed to be a program that works with the iPod 100%.

Are you talking about GTKPOD?..that's the only thing I found that works with my I-Pod 100%

---

### Post by sarit431 on 2010-05-02
At the Ubuntu 10.04 login screen my keyboard is dead but mouse works. At the bottom of the screen was a little icon of options, one being an on-screen keyboard. I used the mouse to type in my password and lo - I am into the program and now my keyboard works fine. I tried re-boots, different keyboards but no action.

I have installed Ubuntu under VMware and Windows 7. There may be a problem between VMware and 10.04, and I hope it is soon worked out.:guitar:

---

### Post by kaldor on 2010-05-02
10.04 fixed every problem that I had in Karmic, and made everything faster.

Hint: Fresh install > Upgrade

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-05-02
> **sarit431 said:**
> At the Ubuntu 10.04 login screen my keyboard is dead but mouse works. At the bottom of the screen was a little icon of options, one being an on-screen keyboard. I used the mouse to type in my password and lo - I am into the program and now my keyboard works fine. I tried re-boots, different keyboards but no action.

I have installed Ubuntu under VMware and Windows 7. There may be a problem between VMware and 10.04, and I hope it is soon worked out.:guitar:

Your problem showed up in early testing using vbox too, an update from them solved the problem, so you just have to wait for vmware to come up with a solution.

---

### Post by adeypoop on 2010-05-02
> **WinterRain said:**
> 
It's like walking into a hardware store to get a hammer, but you wind up buying any old model, then complaining it doesn't do the job. You need to find the right hammer for the job at hand.

LOL you buy an old model of a hammer! Funny

---

### Post by twomoons on 2010-05-02
Am now happily running 9.10 in vmware again.  May try Vbox tomorrow.  Think I'll have to clonezilla my work PC before starting a fresh installation though.

---

### Post by nishant.singh28 on 2010-05-02
I had a mighty system crash on Karmic a couple of weeks back. ATI driver tried to update, wiped out fglrx. So decided to go with a Lucid Beta2 install. I just love it. Boot time of under a minute, faster, cleaner and much more pleasant and good looking interface(the default 9 series interface was ugly). Detected my ATI gpu and installed drivers automatically. And wonder of wonders, no need to use NOAPIC. Ubuntu can now handle my notebook's backlight , eject key and power management by default. Bluetooth, WiFi, Audio, Graphics, Touchpad, Webcam-everything is just perfect. Only problem : No Handbrake GUI. I'm stuck with the CLI but I'm sure that will pass pretty soon. Nevertheless, the devs have done a great job with the OS, especially making it faster and more good looking while keeping it as clean and easy to use as ever. No bloated and unnecessary "AIDS" or so.
And yes,my iPod Nano 4g works fine with Lucid.

---

### Post by cj.surrusco on 2010-05-02
> **sixthwheel said:**
> Are you talking about GTKPOD?..that's the only thing I found that works with my I-Pod 100%

Gtkpod doesn't fetch album artwork for my music

---

### Post by dannyry on 2010-05-05
I have an asus eee 901 and had no problems with 9.10 out of the box.  Wireless with 10.04 has been a nightmare.  I tried the various methods described online with no resolution.  Going to downgrade back to 9.10 as soon as I get a chance.  Shame because i didnt even have to do a fresh install like i did with 9.10 (the upgrade ran like a tortoise) and it felt like speed improved tremendously throughout.

---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2010-05-06
You could have cloned your drive before you tried to install it as well. This would have saved you a ton of trouble. There's probably 100 things you could have done to make your experience better, but we won't go into that.

---

### Post by JohnAStebbins on 2010-05-07
> **nishant.singh28 said:**
> Only problem : No Handbrake GUI. I'm stuck with the CLI but I'm sure that will pass pretty soon.

Welcome to last month.
[https://edge.launchpad.net/~stebbins/+archive/handbrake-snapshots](https://edge.launchpad.net/~stebbins/+archive/handbrake-snapshots)

---

### Post by lazymangaka on 2010-05-07
Wow, your upgrade experience was bad within the first week of this release's official existence. It's just too bad that it's not going to be supported for 3 years with updates fixing any problems that might arise.

Oh, wait. Hey, maybe I've just been lucky, but I'm a total Linux noob and I have had all of one problem total--a problem that ultimately required a mere right-click to fix.

---

### Post by Ms_Angel_D on 2010-05-08
Rival11, thanks for your feedback. If you need support feel free to utilize the support area's of the forums.

thank you all for participating.

---

