---
title: "10.10 is not worth upgrading"
date: 2010-10-16
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by VectorVictor on 2010-10-16
I've spent most of the day working with 10.10 install/upgrade and I'm moving back to 10.04.  I can't believe they released this version in its current condition.  The installation process is horrible, doesn't work well with other operating systems, and basic package installations error.  I'll check back with the next version.  I really like Ubuntu and have used the past four versions.  I'm not quite sure what they were thinking with this version.  I hope they get it worked out.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-10-16
> **VectorVictor said:**
> I've spent most of the day working with 10.10 install/upgrade and I'm moving back to 10.04.  I can't believe they released this version in its current condition.  The installation process is horrible, doesn't work well with other operating systems, and basic package installations error.  I'll check back with the next version.  I really like Ubuntu and have used the past four versions.  I'm not quite sure what they were thinking with this version.  I hope they get it worked out.

Sorry to here it , my experience was just the opposite , 10.10 is my 3rd Ubuntu dual boot with Win 7.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-10-16
My install on one machine went well and my upgrade on another worked well. But the fresh install would never connect to wireless networks that it could see. It just tried to connect and ultimately failed. Wired worked fine and I have seen many posts about users with different brands of wireless devices unable to connect in 10.10. Not sure what's wrong but it has caused quite a few to revert back to 10.04, myself included. I just reverted both machines back so I would be on the same version for both, even though the laptop was up and running ok. 

I'm not sure why because I can't identify specifically what it is, but 10.04 actually seems a bit more polished. 10.10 had some cool features and I liked the new install process, but in the end it's the operation and ease that matters for me. I just trust 10.04 a bit more right now but I know curiosity will grab me in a month or two and I'll give it another go (hopefully after some quirks are worked out). I really liked the look of it, but I now have the Ubuntu fonts in Lucid so I'm pleased :)

---

### Post by VectorVictor on 2010-10-16
I agree.  10.04 definitely seems more solid and polished.  I just finished reverting back to 10.04 and didn't have a single problem.  (I followed my same install process as 10.10 that had all the issues, and it worked perfectly with 10.04.)  I'm sure I will also check back in a couple months and check their progress.  As of right now, I can't recommend any of our computers upgrade to 10.10.  I like the look of it though and have really enjoyed Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Artemis Fowl on 2010-10-17
I had many problems, too, but the only standing one being that ubuntu software center doesn't work. Just gets stuck on "waiting for apt-get to exit.." Luckily, I can still use "sudo apt-get install life" in the terminal.

---

### Post by johntaylor1887 on 2010-10-17
No problems with 10.10 here, but I have not tried it yet. ;)

I decided a while ago that I was going to stay with 10.04 regardless of how good or bad 10.10 was. But the reality is, that a lot depends on what hardware you use, just like any OS. Some people will like it, some won't. But judging 10.10 by what I read about it, I would say overall it has been a success.

---

### Post by kushvarma on 2010-10-17
As an expert of Linux and Ubuntu, Yes i agree Ubuntu 10.10 is not worth upgrading. It has many flaws, does not find one better reason that I should upgrade to Ubuntu 10.10... I found it merely a formality by Canonical to release it 10.10 version. I vouch for 10.04. its the best till now for any kind of user, whether a beginner or professional or a developer. Kernels still need to be modified as it is not as compatible on every single machine. So guys, in my view dont go for Ubuntu 10.10.. Stick to 10.04 or 10.04.1(LTS)...

Enjoy LINUX!!!!

---

### Post by alfitch0619 on 2010-10-17
I've been using Ubuntu since 2007 and have looked forward to each new release every six months.  10.04, with very minor tweaking, worked extremely well on my Gateway desktop.  I have tried both an upgrade and clean install of 10.10 with mixed success.  Something is not quite right.  I can't put my finger on the issues but I'm not "techie" enough to waste my time trying to identify and correct.  I'm sticking with Linux and Ubuntu, but I'm going back to 10.04 LTS.

---

### Post by lancest on 2010-10-17
If 10.04 works perfectly for you - why not stay with it?
LTS versions are super.

---

### Post by tushargkwd on 2010-10-17
Ubuntu 10.10 is a minor upgrade over the 10.04 Lucid Lynx....  If you want something really exciting then wait until the next release 'Ubuntu 11.04'.  

Ubuntu 10.10 works really fine for me and actually its running a bit faster than the 10.10 as well as I had some bug fixes.  

Stay with the Ubuntu flavor you like or else....why not give the new version a try  or roll back.......:)

---

### Post by exploder on 2010-10-17
Ubuntu 10.10 solved graphics issues I was having with 10.04 and it has a more refined look and feel in my opinion. Ubuntu 10.10 to me is a glimpse at what's to come in the near future.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2010-10-18
> kushvarma
As an expert of Linux and Ubuntu, Yes i agree Ubuntu 10.10 is not worth upgrading.

So goes every new release. The same comments appear in this section with every new version released. Some find it to be a good improvement, while others - not so much.

No surprise, that this section has been that way for some time. ;)

---

### Post by rrashkin on 2010-10-18
I did a clean install.  I don't have a dual-OS deal going so I don't know how that works but 10.10, by itself, works great, as did 10.04.  The only thing I noticed  is that my sound works better than it did on previous versions.

---

### Post by beew on 2010-10-18
10.10 is very pretty, the installation is extremely smooth (fresh install). Sound seems to be working better and flash appears to be using less CPU resources, it is also faster than Lucid apparantly. 

But I am now having problems with Synaptic constantly freezing  on me (using the terminal to do sudo apt-get is fine) , it could be a hardware problem but then everything else works fine and that has not happened with Lucid. 

There are also some problems with the repo. There have been several occasions where I got stuck while trying to install programs because some packages appear to be broken. When that happens it is very frustrating because you cannot upgrade (the version in the repo is the newest), you cannot remove (because the package is broken and need to be reinstalled first) and you cannot reinstall (because the package in the repo is broken) but you cannot even pin the version, whenever Synaptic starts up (if it doesn't freeze) or whenever I use the terminal to install or remove packages the program manager would automatically try to update the broken package and ends up freezing the laptop. I eventually had to add the Lucid repo to my sources list just so that I can downgrade the package and remove it. This has happened already several times. 

Also the Nvidia-96 drivers don't work on 10.10 even though they work out of the box in Lucid. But then I heard that the drivers will be upgraded eventually.

I like to put 10.10 on one of my working machines, but so far I am skeptical. Lucid seems a lot more solid.

---

### Post by Earl_Maroon on 2010-10-18
I don't really understand all of the negativity. I have been using 10.10 for the last week and I have experienced no problems, not in the installation and not in its use. I like it just fine. It's a little prettier than the last version, and though there are few noticeable changes it seems at least marginally better than 10.04 in my experience.

---

### Post by drdos2006 on 2010-10-18
I posted this in another section. It may be that Australian ISPs do not use IPv6 but 10.10 did not work for me. Could not connect to Internet for installation.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9989397#post9989397](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9989397#post9989397)

regards

---

