---
title: "10.10 Worst Linux Experience to date"
date: 2010-10-13
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by wolfe on 2010-10-13
Well I'm giving up on 10.10. And I was really looking forward to this release.  I can normally work through the few installation issues I encounter, but whatever is causing my woes is far beyond my skill level.  In 10 years of using Linux I've never been so frustrated by an "official" release. 

After upgrading I was greeted with themes that would not load properly; unable to find any info online I decided maybe it was time for a fresh install.  I backed everything up and burnt a new disc.

My first install locked up, and subsequent installs I am greeted with 100% processor usage upon the very first login.  This happens with or without nvidia drivers enabled, with or without updates applied.  

I can't find any info that fixes my issues anywhere; there are a few bug reports with "fixes" but they don't work for me.  I understand that's the nature of the beast, certainly not the community's fault, and I sorry if I sound like an entitled brat, but I just had to vent my frustration.

OK, I'm done venting, thx.

---

### Post by v1ad on 2010-10-13
installed on Desktop perfectly, and updated perfectly on my laptop.. not sure what kind of issues you have been having.

---

### Post by wolfe on 2010-10-13
yup.  Everyone's hardware config is different.  I'm sure there must be something about my system bogging me down.

core i7 920 $ 4.2 Ghz
2x gtx 470s
80gb ssd
exga x58 LE
6 gb corsair ram

I'll give it a few weeks and try it again.  10.10 netbook edition is running on my htpc and while its slower than 10.04 was, its working with minimal bugs to squash, its at least usable.

---

### Post by MartyBuntu on 2010-10-14
Why not stick with the LTS if it was working for you?
That's my plan.

---

### Post by wolfe on 2010-10-14
> **MartyBuntu said:**
> Why not stick with the LTS if it was working for you?
That's my plan.

Thats exactly what I'm going to do.  Already reloaded 10.04.  Wish I had known this would be the outcome of upgrading.  I have never had an issue this deal-breaking before.  I wrongly assumed I could upgrade without encountering such massive performance regressions.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2010-10-14
100% CPU is probably some rouge process. Find it and kill it (using the Gnome System Monitor).

If 10.04 works for you, there is no need to upgrade. Just go from 10.04 to 12.04.1 (or 12.04.2), it will be all good.

---

### Post by wolfe on 2010-10-14
X11 was the process eating the most CPU.  can't go without that...

As far as upgrading goes.  I enjoy using the latest most up to date distro.  Plus I was really looking forward to using the new features.

---

### Post by irv on 2010-10-14
I have gotten 10.10 to install on 4 PC's. I have two older computer that 10.10 will not install on, so I am using 10.04 on one and 9.04 on the other. Plus I have a server running 10.04 and I don't plan on upgrading it to 10.10 because I want the longer support on it.
Not all PC's are equal, and you need to go with what works.

---

### Post by Jazzy_Jeff on 2010-10-14
I never do upgrades. There always seem to be some problems. I just back up everything and do a clean install. It does not take long to do this.

---

### Post by wolfe on 2010-10-14
I actually upgraded and then did a fresh install.  I'm an advocate of clean installs as well, I was just hoping to avoid having to tweak everything again.  It was in fact the clean install that give me the most grief though.

---

### Post by irv on 2010-10-14
> **wolfe said:**
> I actually upgraded and then did a fresh install.  I'm an advocate of clean installs as well, I was just hoping to avoid having to tweak everything again.  It was in fact the clean install that give me the most grief though.

I agree, this is sometimes the case. I have an ad running in the local News Paper to install Ubuntu Linux on older PC's running windows which are having problem  (slow downs, viruses, etc). Some install go very well, and others don't. I sometimes have to move back a version or two to get them to run right.
Right now I am running 10.10 on my laptop, and I have video issues once in awhile. I just do a quick reboot and I am back running again. If it happens to much I will just go back to 10.04 because it worked great with no issues.

---

### Post by perspectoff on 2010-10-14
> **Jazzy_Jeff said:**
> I never do upgrades. There always seem to be some problems. I just back up everything and do a clean install. It does not take long to do this.

Me either! There's always some subtle incompatibility between versions. Besides, it's a good opportunity to weed out the apps and stuff I don't use anymore in a new installation.

The old habit of upgrading came from Windows, where Upgrades are half the price of a New Version. Not a problem with (K)Ubuntu!

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2010-10-14
Odd. 10.10 has been my ***best*** Linux experience, to date.

Tim

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2010-10-14
[> ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=58542")[wolfe]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=58542")
Thats exactly what I'm going to do.  Already reloaded 10.04.

Might I suggest a simple solution. I utilize a (used) usb HDD for  testing purposes. It's an effective way of testing new upgrades without  actually installing them on my primary HDD's. I'm able to test multiple  systems with the same usb HDD without ever altering primaries.

Should the new release not meet our expectations or struggle with  compatibility issues, no harm - no foul. I simple unplug the usb HDD and  reboot the system. Some members use a separate petition, while I prefer  a totally isolated drive for testing.

I run a predefined testing procedure and should the upgrade fail to pass  said procedure, I simply reboot. We have five home systems and all five  must pass testing before any are upgraded. I have no desire to run  different versions on different systems.

By implementing a testing procedure and utilizing an inexpensive used  usb HDD, I'm capable of testing not only testing new OS releases but app  upgrades and any questionable updates that may or may not be an  improvement. All with minimal impact and time investment. I truly  believe all users should have a testing procedure and a simple way of  testing all upgrades prior to installation on their primary HDD.

Good Luck.

---

### Post by irv on 2010-10-14
Good advise Tamlynmac. In my case on my main laptop that I use on a daily bases, I have an extra HD I just pop in. In fact the other night I installed Win7 64bit and Ubuntu 10.10 64bit on it to test drive them. The problem I am having is finding time to do the test drive. I am out of town right now and don't know when I will get around to doing this. Hopefully soon.
Thanks for sharing the advise.

---

### Post by wolfe on 2010-10-14
that is good advice.  I will take it and use it in the future.  Only thing that I wouldn't be able to test properly is how new versions will work with my ssd's.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2010-10-15
> **perspectoff said:**
>  
The old habit of upgrading came from Windows, where Upgrades are half the price of a New Version. Not a problem with (K)Ubuntu!
 
it does come from windows but not for that reason IMO. But because in windows you can upgrade only programmes. i've been running XP for a long time now...
 
on one computer it was made from DOS to WIN95 to WIN98 to WinXP. everything still works solid as ever. the only downside is the growth of the system there.
 
it was great experience as almost all setting remained as they were. so there was no additional setting up of the system. 
 
while on the other hand linux can be a pain. and it need constant upgrading (even of kernel). ok mabye in my case this is ok since i use it with default programmes mor or less. but some people are really upset with this. hunting for libraries every time, making sure that the old is compatible with the new, then things break and need fixing... 
 
it keeps getting new features with the upgrade. they are not fixes. that's why you have ATI drivers for example work in the old yet are useless with the newer ubuntu and Xorg. and this keeps changing so fast that is no wonder that many manufacturers choose not to support such a system.

---

### Post by irv on 2010-10-15
> it keeps getting new features with the upgrade. they are not fixes. that's why you have ATI drivers for example work in the old yet are useless with the newer ubuntu and Xorg. and this keeps changing so fast that is no wonder that many manufacturers choose not to support such a system.
Let me get this straight in my mind, and I may need to be corrected here. When a distro comes out with a new version there are cosmetic, bug fixes and feature changes made, but the kernel is a separate thing. Is it not the kernel where the driver are working with? I have been told that the kernel is Linux not the distro. The distro are the pieces (and face) that interact with the kernel.  Am I right on this point?
And if I am right some of the problem come when there is a kernel change. (drivers etc).
And to add to the problem, the Desktop is a complete separate issue, When it changes we now bring in a new equation.

---

