---
title: "10.4 still a beta"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by ruies on 2010-05-01
Tried to burn the ISO file in win7 first but got the message the file was to big for a CD. Then went to Ubuntu and managed to burn it, but the CD was so full of blocks when I tried to install it on a laptop, it didn't work. It just hangs. Then I went to another computer, downloaded the  Ubuntu installer for Windows, went through all the things and booted up Ubuntu. Worked fine until I tried to open add remove programs and the computer hangs. Over and over again!! Same when trying to change  screen resolution. Now I'm tired of this crap. I think 10.4 is still a beta and should not been released yet. It has to many bugs.It looks fancy yes, but... A distro upgrade twice a year is to much! To much hurry. In october I tried to install 9.10 on a machine (i7-920, 6 GB ram, HD radeon 4890) Same message ISO to big. In the end, when I finally got it installed, it just didn't work. Fx when scrolling down a page in firefox the side was splitting up on the way down etc etc. Had a linux expert friend of mine coming over to look at it, but couldn't fix it. I think he was as surprised as me! It went into the garbage. It is sad because I like open source policy and the communal idea of linux. But this is to much for me and I cant recomend it to anybody anymore....

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-05-01
Sounds like a bad burn to me. Ubuntu runs better for me than any OS I've ever used. I'm sure many people will agree with me on that.

Please don't assume that everybody is going to have problems like you. Millions of people wouldn't be using it if that were the case. Good luck to you.

Also, if I work into a store to buy a computer, I get a computer with hardware that has been tested with windows or mac. Buy a linux preinstalled pc and it will be smooth as silk. Make sense?

---

### Post by ruies on 2010-05-01
Tried to boot up Ubuntu again and now it wont boot, giving the message "Kernel panic not syncing v fs unable to mount root on unknown block"
I got the same message yesterday. Reinstalled and now it happens again.
Any suggestion? Bad installer?

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-05-01
> Tried to boot up Ubuntu again and now it wont boot, giving the message  "Kernel panic not syncing v fs unable to mount root on unknown block"
I got the same message yesterday. Reinstalled and now it happens again.
Any suggestion? Bad installer? 	

Please start a help thread in another fourm.  This forum is for how things worked or did not work for you.   It is not a help forum.   You could post in General Help, Installations and Upgrades, or Absolute Beginners.

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-05-01
Then again, your computer may just be linux incompatible. There are some computers that will flat out refuse to run linux. Not much you can do about it.

---

### Post by ruies on 2010-05-01
Tried to install from the CD. Hangs again. About the forum thread, sef: I posted it on feedback and help, but it was moved to here....Still, it is about how it didn't work for me.... And of course I like to hear if somebody have some ideas, opinions and solutions. 
Seems like two of my machines cannot take linux...

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-05-01
Try getting it via [torrent]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/ubuntu-10.04-desktop-i386.iso.torrent"). If you are in windows, try using another app to burn, such as [InfraRecorder]("http://infrarecorder.org/"), and burn the .iso at a very slow speed.

Are you using name brand blank cd's? Or bargain basement cheapo's?

---

### Post by eltonw on 2010-05-01
**First things first:** [COLOR="DarkRed"][FONT="Microsoft Sans Serif"]did you VERIFY the checksum of the ISO image *before* burning it[/FONT][/COLOR]? If the checksum is incorrect, you can still do a successful burn, and even get as far as a successful install, but thereafter ... expect problems.

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-05-01
> **eltonw said:**
> **First things first:** [COLOR="DarkRed"][FONT="Microsoft Sans Serif"]did you VERIFY the checksum of the ISO image *before* burning it[/FONT][/COLOR]?

Getting the .iso via torrent eliminates the need for this, as torrents are automatically verified for quality. However, you *should* verify the cd against the image after burning it.

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-05-01
> Tried to install from the CD. Hangs again. About the forum thread, sef: I  posted it on feedback and help, but it was moved to here....Still, it  is about how it didn't work for me.... And of course I like to hear if  somebody have some ideas, opinions and solutions. 
Seems like two of my machines cannot take linux...

This is the place to tell about how your Ubuntu experience is going - both good and bad.  Your first post fit that.  However, your third post was about asking for help, which this forum is not the place for.  Hence, my suggestion to ask the questions in a forum set up for questions.

Forum Feedback is feedback about the forum itself.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2010-05-01
Perhaps you can't burn the iso properly with your windows application...you could order a free cd of 10.04 from Ubuntu...they ship it pretty quickly...i once ordered one and got it in less then two weeks
i think...

Or if you know anyone who runs linux...ask them to download the iso and burn it for you using brasero, which is the excellent burner in Ubuntu...never had a problem with an iso using it...

---

### Post by ruies on 2010-05-02
I burned the CD with brasero on my machine running Ubuntu 9.10. Been running ubuntu on this machine since 6.04 so pretty safe. I put the CD in updated it to 10.4. . And it worked! I guess the laptop CD rom is slow and old so... On the first machine I tried to install it , it might be some hardware like Geoforce FX 5500 which made it freeze. I tried both the CD and the windows installer there, both making it freeze. But now I have at least one computer running Ubuntu 10.4. Eager to check it out. Thanks for suggestions people.

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2010-05-02
Like the admin stated earlier in this thread - please start a new thread asking for help with your specific hardware.

It is probably a fact that you have hardware that is unsupported or poorly supported, or maybe the hardware merely needs a little "tweaking" from the end user.

Remember that you need to make sure that the check sum is correct BEFORE burning the CD, burn the CD as slow as possible - possible 4X - and to make sure you are burning an .iso file.

Run the CD first in the CD drive in a "Live CD" session to see how much of your hardware works correctly before installation. You will know where to go from there and be ahead of the game at this point.


When all else fails, don't post a thread stating how much you thing the OS sucks.  Post a thread asking for help with your issue. One issue per thread. Hundreds of thousands of others are having a good experience with Ubuntu. Just because aren't doesn't mean that the release you are using is still a beta release.

Work on graphics first, wireless second in the case of a laptop and GUI third. Everything else will fall into place after that.

Be patient. Linux has a steep learning curve. 

good luck - we're all counting on you

---

### Post by John Bean on 2010-05-02
> **ruies said:**
> I guess the laptop CD rom is slow and old

Some old drives restrict data cd's to 650MB even if you use a 700MB disk. Been there, done that :-(

Moral: don't try to burn ISOs > 650MB on obsolete drives :-(

---

