---
title: "10.04 observations ...."
date: 2010-06-25
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by cwmoser on 2010-06-25
I've used Ubuntu since 6.10.  
Moving from Windows to Ubuntu was a very smart move.

This is my third attempt to install 10.04 - had some problems.

Here are some observations that I thought should be made aware of:

- I installed 10.04 in a separate partition.  When I installed 10.04, the grub menu did not list my old 9.04 partition -- that and no sound made be fall back to my backup and stay with 9.04

- My 3-rd install attempt, grub lost my 9.04 instance and no sound.  But this time I persevered and did an "update" - lot of updates and then grub menu got properly updated with my old 9.04 partition and the sound started working.

In addition, I could not get **sudo dpkg --set-selections < installed-software** to work.  I posted this problem in another thread here and got the solution.

I did not think I was a complete noob with Ubuntu as I've used it for years.  I thought this might be helpful to others who are attempting upgrading to 10.04.  

Carl

---

### Post by marbertone on 2010-06-25
Yes guys,
I do agree. I'm not a pc-noob, I moved to Ubuntu w/ Karmic and I plan to stay with that forever :) (unless troubles will come out). In my modest opinion I think that Ubuntu shouldn't bring up anymore such anxious politics as to release a new version every six months. I'm a programmer and I understand that such an OS has got a baroque machinery behind to appear so simple and user-friendly. Perhaps Ubuntu should release a new version just when it's the case, focusing more on critical updates of one stable version.
Cheers to this beautiful OS! :)
Mario Alberto

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-06-25
My two cents. I'm sure the guys that built Lucid worked very hard. I'm just in doubt as to whether they *thought* very hard about what they were doing.

Absolute Beginner Talk is not the appropriate sub-forum for this thread. Perhaps Recurring Discussions would be better.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2010-06-25
Moved to Ubuntu Testimonials & Experiences :)

---

### Post by pdlethbridge on 2010-06-25
I agree with Marbertone, just provide critical updates and don't provide a new OS every 6 months, Its got to be too hard on the volunteers. Everything should be LTS and make it last  longer than 2 years. Please be more concerned about making everything work correctly.
I have been using ubuntu for over 4 years and have been very impressed with the hard work that has gone into it. However, I have not been able to get my tvcard usable in either 9.10 or 10.04. 9.04 has been very stable and reliable. I'll be saddened to see it go by the wayside when support runs out this year. Maybe 10.10 will provide the support I need.
10.04 issues. my canon printer was not supported except by adding libcupsys2 to the OS
Volume control was an issue
volume sound was jittery.
Installation was a nightmare, and got worse each time I tried it. And that was even with formating both / and home
tvtime was useless.

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-06-25
> **pdlethbridge said:**
> Everything should be LTS and make it last  longer than 2 years.
LTS's are 3 years for desktop and 5 years for servers. ;)

Canonical is not going to change the way they do things, so it would be a good idea to find something that *does* work for *you*.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-06-25
> **WinterRain said:**
> LTS's are 3 years for desktop and 5 years for servers. ;)

Canonical is not going to change the way they do things, so it would be a good idea to find something that *does* work for *you*.

Unfortunately the options can be somewhat limited for one reason or another. Ubuntu, as a whole, is the best choice. At least for me. I've gone through dozens of distros in the last year or so.

Mint, SliTaz, Debian, Sabayon, Dream Linux, Fluxbox Mint, all the 'Buntus, Zenwalk, PCLinuxOS, to name a few. Even tried a Minimal install of 9.10. *That* blew up in my face.

---

### Post by lancest on 2010-06-26
Sometimes it's a better idea to change your hardware-than to change your distro.

---

### Post by armandh on 2010-06-26
> **lancest said:**
> Sometimes it's a better idea to change your hardware-than to change your distro.

+++111


Ive found the easiest dual boot install is to clear the space one wishes to use of any partitions then use the option to install in the largest unpartitioned space.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-06-26
> **lancest said:**
> Sometimes it's a better idea to change your hardware-than to change your distro.

Not so easy to change the hardware on a laptop.

> **armandh said:**
> Ive found the easiest dual boot install is to clear 
the space one wishes to use of any partitions then use the option to install in the largest unpartitioned space.

I have found the easiest way is to have a partition set aside for dual booting.

sda1 10 GB ext4 (main OS 9.10 at the moment)
sda2 213 GB ext4 (/home)
sda3 10 GB ext4 (experiment partition)

I often need to reformat sda3 because many distros won't run properly from ext4. Dream Linux comes to mind. Now that I think about it, Dream Linux *never* ran properly for me, regargless of filesystem.

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2010-06-26
I've always said that 6 months schedule is pure madness. Especially since upgrading never works as it should.

A new version every 2-3 years would be much better. And **de-facto** support policy for the most successful releases must be as-long-as-needed. (M$ prolonged its support for XP till 2014. That's almost 13 years in total. Not bad for a non-server OS, eh?)

---

### Post by pdlethbridge on 2010-06-26
Quote:
Originally Posted by WinterRain View Post
LTS's are 3 years for desktop and 5 years for servers.
I know, but they are only 2 years between releases.

---

### Post by pdlethbridge on 2010-06-26
> **WinterRain said:**
> LTS's are 3 years for desktop and 5 years for servers. ;)

I know, but they are only 2 years between releases.

---

### Post by marshmallow1304 on 2010-06-26
> **prodigy_ said:**
> M$ prolonged its support for XP till 2014. That's almost 13 years in total. Not bad for a non-server OS, eh?

Only because the Vista uptake rate [was abysmal]("http://www.silicon.com/technology/software/2007/11/20/vista-business-uptake-still-slow-39169209/").

Ubuntu thrives on rapid innovation; it is not designed to be [a stable distribution]("http://www.debian.org/").

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2010-06-27
> **marshmallow1304 said:**
> Only because the Vista uptake rate
End users don't care about reasons, only about results. 

> **marshmallow1304 said:**
> Ubuntu thrives on rapid innovation
Alas, I fail to see any **relevant/useful** innovations in Lucid. HAL removal could wait because it doesn't add functionality. Much praised faster OS startup turned out to be slower in many cases. The new Gnome theme is just as ugly as the old one was and window controls on the left side are inconvenient.

What exactly have we got, except a bunch of new bugs?

As a developer I understand the urge to rush a new shiny version, but as an end user I'm just irritated. If Lucid is a preview of coming attractions, of how Ubuntu is going to look, feel and do its job from now on, then 2010 is definitely the last Year-of-Desktop-Linux for me.

---

### Post by Linuxforall on 2010-06-27
Boot speed is fast on majority of Lucid PCs and laptops with few exceptions, Lucid has many more improvements from its predecessors and is a viable alternate to Windows and Mac today, no doubt about it but since its software, the very nature is that it may work for most but still not work for some. As for Gnome theme being ugly, well at least you can change it to kingdom come in Linux, try doing that in MS or Mac. For many Win7 BSODs, Macs get hacked and in same way, Linux desktop and Ubuntu is not for everyone. No matter what, Lucid is here to stay and do good, so will Linux desktop, even cutting edge Fedora is rock stable, SuSE new one holds great promise for KDE lovers.

---

### Post by exploder on 2010-06-27
> What exactly have we got, except a bunch of new bugs?

That seems to be the case. 

Plymouth is nice, if it works... (That is the way you see very little text when starting.) Getting and keeping the NVidea drivers working is a nightmare and the disk check does not work. As far as the new theme, the only thing that ruins it is the purple Plymouth theme, the rest doesn't look half bad. 

On the plus side the system is very fast, when it works.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-06-27
> **Linuxforall said:**
> Boot speed is fast on majority of Lucid PCs and laptops with few exceptions, Lucid has many more improvements from its predecessors and is a viable alternate to Windows and Mac today, no doubt about it but since its software, the very nature is that it may work for most but still not work for some. As for Gnome theme being ugly, well at least you can change it to kingdom come in Linux, try doing that in MS or Mac. For many Win7 BSODs, Macs get hacked and in same way, Linux desktop and Ubuntu is not for everyone. No matter what, Lucid is here to stay and do good, so will Linux desktop, even cutting edge Fedora is rock stable, SuSE new one holds great promise for KDE lovers.

You may be able to change it to "Kingdom come" but many aspects of that are much *harder*. My Lucid install only recognizes that I'm using a Pointer Theme about 30% of the time. Karmic's switch to gdm 2.28 made changing the "Splashes" difficult. With the way Lucid does things, it's even *more* difficult. The only reasonable way to modify either Karmic or Lucid "Splashes" is to use Ubuntu Tweak or python-gdm2setup and neither one supports actual splash themes. Which, of course, now means installing extra software for something that was remarkably simple just over a year ago (Jaunty) and was possible with no extra software.

Yes, I'm well aware of making those changes by modifying the appropriate files. You become the omnipotent root then go to: this here> open this that> and modify this there> and you open that over there> and find this thing on line blah blah and make it say gobbledegook instead.

You tell that crap to the average user, they'll *panic* and go running back to the welcoming arms of Windows *begging* Microsoft to forgive them for their doubt and lack of faith.

Has anyone else tried to customize the panel in Lucid's UNE?

Then there's the shear idiocy of the Indicator Applet. Let's move everything from the Notification Area into the Indicator Applet. Why? What possible benefit does this serve? It doesn't. While we're at it, let's make the Evolution envelope almost totally impossible to remove. Has anyone else noticed the number of Threads on that? If you haven't then just trust me, there are lot's of them.

Actually, what baffles me is why there is a Notification Area or Indicator in the first place. Most of the things that are displayed on them should be independent icons on the panel. If there is a way to do that, it certainly isn't easy.

Easy = right click> Add to Panel> select Master Volume Control> Click Add. 

Removing something should be even more simple. 

Right click applet> select Remove from Panel = easy.

If there needs to be a Notification Area then have it display *only* those things that users generally turn on after they boot. Media players and Torrent clients, for example.

The problem is this. Programmers don't think the same way as everyone else does. What is easy for them or they will be a simple way of doing things is ***never, ever, ever even close*** to easy or simple for anybody else.

At least, in this department Lucid is an horrific, abysmal ***_FAILURE!_***

---

### Post by overdrank on 2010-06-27
Thank you for your Ubuntu Testimonials. Thread closed

---

