---
title: "8.10 a disaster."
date: 2008-11-04
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by klm3030 on 2008-11-04
Upgraded to 8.10 very disappointed, I can't believe they even tested it, certainly did not test it well.  Keep finding more things that don't work. Most issues are with USB.  Printer (HP PSC1350) don't work (printer not connected), same memory stick that worked fine with 8.04 will not mount.  Firefox screwed up. The list gets longer ever time I get on. I don't have time to debug it.  My faith in unbuntu has been shattered.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-11-04
Moved to community cafe.

---

### Post by chris4585 on 2008-11-04
Just use 8.04 for a while, use what works for you, for the longest I hated 8.04 and stayed with 7.10, now I'm happy/content with 8.04 especially since its LTS

---

### Post by -grubby on 2008-11-05
How predictable was this thread?

---

### Post by macogw on 2008-11-05
There was testing...those two major issues with Intel hardware (killing wired internet, kernel panics on wireless) cut out a large portion of potential testers though.  Want to help us triage for Jaunty?  The bugs could always use more eyes.

---

### Post by laplace/d on 2008-11-05
i feel disappointed too...just made 4 updates on my intrepid ibex, rebooted, and the first thing i noticed is that one of the things a had finally got rid off by upgrading to 8.10 is back with the new updates... there was a known issue with the sound (on hardy), i couldn't have any audio/video player (even firefox) open at the same time with skype and expect sound on any of them... once i finally see it working the new updates take it away!!!!...this was a couple of hours ago...

other problems i had when i upgraded to 8.10 where, the sound didn't work at all, alsa wouldn't shut down....(solved so far)

and still firefox works as though i was using a dial up connection, and it takes more time to boot.......

is any of this happening to more people??? is somebody taking care of these issues??? will it be improved with updates???

...so far it's been a headache

---

### Post by brunovecchi on 2008-11-05
Did you try a clean install? Historically, upgrades don't work as expected.

---

### Post by diskotek on 2008-11-05
> **brunovecchi said:**
> Did you try a clean install? Historically, upgrades don't work as expected.

upgrade never worked good with my hardware... and everything seem OK now with clean install.

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2008-11-05
> **klm3030 said:**
> Upgraded to 8.10 very disappointed, I can't believe they even tested it, certainly did not test it well.  Keep finding more things that don't work. Most issues are with USB.  Printer (HP PSC1350) don't work (printer not connected), same memory stick that worked fine with 8.04 will not mount.  Firefox screwed up. The list gets longer ever time I get on. I don't have time to debug it.  My faith in unbuntu has been shattered.

If 8.04 worked fine, why did you upgrade?

Before upgrading, you should test the system you are going to. Blindly upgrading is a cause of all problems. Upgrading after planning and testing isn't foolproof either.

8.10 works fine for me.

---

### Post by Retrograde77 on 2008-11-05
Been using 8.10 since beta, also changed to the 64bit version.
Damn smooth sailing so far, loving it. :KS

---

### Post by Ripfox on 2008-11-05
Works fine here too. I'd try a fresh install myself before I would get as dramatic as "my faith has been shattered" :lolflag:

---

### Post by jonobr on 2008-11-05
From my military background , I learned to use scouts.

Thanks to all testers, developers and all who put their time,effort and life into Ubuntu.

---

### Post by david_lynch on 2008-11-05
8.10 works very well on my laptop and one desktop, both with intel graphics. But on my other desktop (nvidia graphics), I can't get the nvidia drivers to load. 8.04 worked fine.

---

### Post by ww711 on 2008-11-05
> **klm3030 said:**
> Upgraded to 8.10 very disappointed, I can't believe they even tested it, certainly did not test it well.  Keep finding more things that don't work. Most issues are with USB.  Printer (HP PSC1350) don't work (printer not connected), same memory stick that worked fine with 8.04 will not mount.  Firefox screwed up. The list gets longer ever time I get on. I don't have time to debug it.  My faith in unbuntu has been shattered.


My Ubuntu installation works and functions to my needs; rock solid. Ubuntu has made good and positive progress. That is all.

---

### Post by quinnten83 on 2008-11-05
Doesn't work for me.
On both my laptops nm-applet doesn't start and when i finally get it to appear on the panel, I have no network, wired or wireless. So, i can't update and I can't test.
Damn shame too, as my wacom tablet worked (albeit without pressure sensitivity and the eraser) without compiling the driver this time. Needless to say that I am quite disappointed.
There are bugreports on launchpad about this, but since there aren't as many people with this problem, I don't think it will get solved anytime soon or get enough attention. Right now, I am a bit scared to install it on my main desktop.
Are there any other network managers I could try?

---

### Post by Vitamin-Carrot on 2008-11-05
IT would seem that most upgrade cases have come out worse off than desired ...

I would suggest backing up your data and doing a clean install to see if the performance is better.

As far as i can remember there were a few threads here in the forums that actually suggested that you should do a clean install ... the main one i remember is the post about how the getdeb people stated that if your going to do an upgrade that you should remove all the packages that you have downloaded and installed from their site as the may cause some issues... if that isnt an indication to do a clean install then i dont know what is

I have tried clean installs of both Kubuntu and ubuntu ... i have had no issues with ubuntu but KDE 4.1.2 still seems to be a bit premature, its nice and cool looking but not really ready yet IMHO.

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2008-11-05
It's understandable you're upset. You don't expect to have an upgrade completely wreck your system. You're probably very much in the minority though - just happened to have the wrong hardware.

The consensus seems to be that Intrepid is the best one yet.

.

---

### Post by Tucatts on 2008-11-05
I did an upgrade as well this time instead of a clean install. Have to say that 8.10 is the best yet for me, no problems and very stable.Better than Hardy for sure in my experience. Interesting comments from everyone. I really think it gets down to hardware more than anything else as to why  linux is great for some and a disaster for others. This machine is almost five years old and is a home built system. I have a soyo motherboad, P4 2.5 cpu,a mixture of ram ( whatever was cheapest!)at 1.7 mgs and a nvidia 6600 card and a western digital 250 g HD. For whatever reason Linux of any persuasion has always worked fine for this machine. 
I am sure that hardware is not the only variable but think it is a big variable for sure. Anyway, hope you get things worked out.Good luck!

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2008-11-05
> **macogw said:**
> There was testing...those two major issues with Intel hardware (killing wired internet, kernel panics on wireless) cut out a large portion of potential testers though.  Want to help us triage for Jaunty?  The bugs could always use more eyes.

I'll point out something. On Hardy's Fresh Install there was no drivers for my wireless (Broadcom as seen below) but later there was drivers installable over the net. Now i had though that these drivers would come as fresh install with Interpid. But wa si wrong! I rent a room and all i generally have is wireless. It would be appreciated if the wireless drivers could be on by default. After all connecting to the internet should be a top prioty sense all other misc stuff can be downloaded after install.

---

### Post by sanderella on 2008-11-05
I like 8.10 better than 8.04. I find it easier to manage, and everything works.:KS

---

### Post by stimpack on 2008-11-05
> **MasterNetra said:**
> I'll point out something. On Hardy's Fresh Install there was no drivers for my wireless (Broadcom as seen below) but later there was drivers installable over the net. Now i had though that these drivers would come as fresh install with Interpid. But wa si wrong! I rent a room and all i generally have is wireless. It would be appreciated if the wireless drivers could be on by default. After all connecting to the internet should be a top prioty sense all other misc stuff can be downloaded after install.

Ha yeah, same with my laptop, having to connect to the internet to download drivers that let you connect to the internet was a catch22 that meant my laptop never got further than the LiveCD stage.

---

### Post by ubuntu27 on 2008-11-05
> **Vitamin-Carrot said:**
> 

As far as i can remember there were a few threads here in the forums that actually suggested that you should do a clean install ... the main one i remember is the post about how the GetDeb people stated that if your going to do an upgrade that you should remove all the packages that you have downloaded and installed from their site as the may cause some issues...


Right! [Here is the link]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=963753") about GetDeb warning/suggesting people to uninstall their packages before upgrading.

---

### Post by Nesnej Trick on 2008-11-05
I'm going to pitch in my two cents for the Kubuntu crowd.

This may seem a bit over the top, but trust me on this: KDE 4 destroyed just about everything that was good about KDE.

**Customizability?** It's about on par with Windows. I can't even change the background colour of the damn plasma panel or whatever they call the bar thingamajig now. I have yet to discover how on earth I managed to move it to the top of the screen in the first place.

**Configurability?** most KDE programs seem to have lost about ¾ of their option dialogs. I have yet to discover a way to prevent Kopete from playing certain notification sounds as the options simply are nowhere to be found.

**Stability?** Ok, to be honest this was never the strong point of KDE, but it wasn't bad at all in 3.5. In 4, it's simply horrible, in ways that defy common sense. *Why on earth can clicking "play" in amarok freeze absolutely everything right down to the kernel!?!* On a related note, it's the first time I've encountered immortal processes. Yes, processes that keep on running despite multiple attempts to kill them.
 
**Speed?** Jerky as hell.

**Looks?** Fairly crude. Render errors are abundant. No amount of eye candy can patch the fact that simple things such a scroll bars often fail to render until you hover your mouse over them.

---

### Post by aaaantoine on 2008-11-05
Ubuntu Intrepid has been worse for me compared to Hardy, but not so bad that I want to roll back.  The general problem I've been having with 8.10 is that the display sometimes freezes for periods ranging from 1 second to several minutes.  I have no idea what's causing it, either, but it's most apparent when I'm playing Diablo II.

---

### Post by fatality_uk on 2008-11-05
> **nathangrubb said:**
> How predictable was this thread?

On a scale of 1 - 10? You gotta say 55.75 :lol:

---

### Post by jeyaganesh on 2008-11-05
I too used to experience such a small problems with each upgradation, sometimes even in clean installation. But this time I have only problem with 'sound'. Whenever I connect headphone, sound goes off.:guitar:

---

### Post by init1 on 2008-11-05
> **macogw said:**
> There was testing
But not nearly enough, IMHO. 6 months is too short to create a stable OS.

---

