---
title: "8.1"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by delanov on 2008-11-01
Well I'm back and it's 5:09 AM Saturday morning.  After getting home at midnight, I down loaded 8.1 and installed, the install went smoothly onto the HD.  Very impressed with 8.1.  The wireless works great with chip-set zd1211rw USB, and of course I'm making this post using 8.1.  

I still hate brown and the desktop is too ugly for words, thank god there was the solid brown desktop as an alternate.  After I get some sleep, Ill change all the brown to blue and it that's not possible I'll move on.  Anyway, and for now,  it looks like 8.1 is a real winner:)

cheers

---

### Post by mybunche on 2008-11-01
Don't move on, you can easily change all to blue. I actually like the brown. Why? It's distinctive and different, and I'm tired of blues and greens. After two years I have gotten used to it, and I find very easy on the eye.

Ubuntu 8.10  liveCD really rocks. I am tempted to upgrade from 8.04.

---

### Post by ukripper on 2008-11-01
> **delanov said:**
> Well I'm back and it's 5:09 AM Saturday morning.  After getting home at midnight, I down loaded 8.1 and installed, the install went smoothly onto the HD.  Very impressed with 8.1.  The wireless works great with chip-set zd1211rw USB, and of course I'm making this post using 8.1.  

I still hate brown and the desktop is too ugly for words, thank god there was the solid brown desktop as an alternate.  After I get some sleep, Ill change all the brown to blue and it that's not possible I'll move on.  Anyway, and for now,  it looks like 8.1 is a real winner:)

cheers

Make sure you don't get hangover otherwise it will feel more ugly!:)

---

### Post by Riffer on 2008-11-01
One of the great things about Ubuntu/Linux is the ability and ease to change your desktop in so many ways.  Right click on your desktop and select "Change Desktop Background".  The app that pops up allows you to change your Wallpaper, theme, font, icons and even customize.

[http://gnome-look.org/index.php](http://gnome-look.org/index.php)

That site is one of many that has addition stuff for your desktop, just download and drop into the above app.  Within minutes you can have a very personalized desktop.

PS I haven't even mentioned some of the other tweaks such as "Docks" "Gnome Color Chooser" etc.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-11-01
> **delanov said:**
> Ill change all the brown to blue and if that's not possible I'll move on.

what do you mean "if that's not possible"? just put some wallpapers in your home folder, open one, view>set as wallpaper. then go to system>preferences>appearance and change it to a blue theme. geez. :rolleyes:

---

### Post by issih on 2008-11-01
Obviously any image you pop over to the box can be used as the wallpaper, and you can easily select any solid colour you want just below the bit where you choose between the supplied wallpapers.

As for the rest of it, go into appearance, and hit the customise button. Then on the controls tab choose clearlooks. I suggest this because clearlooks (unlike a lot of the widget sets) allows you to choose your own colour. Once clearlooks is selected go to the colours tab and customise to your hearts content.

And that is just scratching the surface of how much you can change the looks of ubuntu if you really want to :)

Hope that helps

---

### Post by delanov on 2008-11-01
Thanks to all of you and for your supportive replies.  Indeed, I now have a beautiful blue ubuntu gnome distro, and I will defiantly be around for a long time to come:)

Best regards to all

cheers:)

---

### Post by delanov on 2008-11-01
> **Riffer said:**
> One of the great things about Ubuntu/Linux is the ability and ease to change your desktop in so many ways.  Right click on your desktop and select "Change Desktop Background".  The app that pops up allows you to change your Wallpaper, theme, font, icons and even customize.

[http://gnome-look.org/index.php](http://gnome-look.org/index.php)

That site is one of many that has addition stuff for your desktop, just download and drop into the above app.  Within minutes you can have a very personalized desktop.

PS I haven't even mentioned some of the other tweaks such as "Docks" "Gnome Color Chooser" etc.

Thanks' Riffer for the link:)

---

### Post by delanov on 2008-11-01
> **wolfen69 said:**
> what do you mean "if that's not possible"? just put some wallpapers in your home folder, open one, view>set as wallpaper. then go to system>preferences>appearance and change it to a blue theme. geez. :rolleyes:

geez: you could use sensitivity training.  get a grip and quit taking yourself so seriously; I don't :lolflag:

---

