---
title: "9.04. Where do i start?"
date: 2009-06-07
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Roadbloc on 2009-06-07
Ive had ubuntu hardy heron for a while and its worked just fine.

Today i installed 9.04 jaunty jackalope and it doesn't just work fine, its amazing!

This a post of thanks to who ever decided on the amazing gui changes made and the performance changes.

Not only does it load faster on my pentium III compaq presario 1700us, but applications run faster and gui animations are much smoother.

I am glad you developers are not taking the windows route of "a new version of windows = must get a new computer" ):P

---

### Post by winmenux on 2009-06-08
:D test my ID

---

### Post by moster on 2009-06-08
Buddy, good point. Buying new computer every so often I would only understand if I was a gamer. But, I am not real one. If I sense need to shoot anybody, OpenArena or some Oldie But Goodie will do :)

Just to say this aloud, because it is really unbeliveable. Vista works good enough only if it has half of the limit of 32bit computers! That is 2 GB RAM. I mean WTF?! Is that some kind of hardware manufacturers - microsoft deal or what?

---

### Post by armandh on 2009-06-08
> **moster said:**
> Just to say this aloud, because it is really unbelievable. Vista works good enough only if it has half of the limit of 32bit computers! That is 2 GB RAM. I mean WTF?! Is that some kind of hardware manufacturers - microsoft deal or what?

nope just useless crap running

but the expensive hardware and software upgrade symbiosis is convenient for their vendors

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2009-06-08
Roadbloc

I'm running a P4 and have ever since starting with Ubuntu 3 years ago. Agree that 9.04 was a tremendous improvement. Once 9.04 (from 8.04) was loaded the difference was immediately apparent. The speed difference was obvious and everything just worked except Brasero, which I simply switched to using K3b. Similar to you I was truly impressed.

As for MS, well "you get what you pay for". Oh, thats right Ubuntu is free. Guess that adage just doesn't hold water here. ;)

Enjoy

---

### Post by lordhaworth on 2009-06-08
Hardy served me well, I have only just installed Jaunty...

First impressions are excellent though!

---

### Post by juancarlospaco on 2009-06-08
To start, install Ubuntus restricted extras, remove M$ Mono*(removes Tomboy)*:

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras ; sudo apt-get remove mono-common

---

### Post by Roadbloc on 2009-06-14
> **armandh said:**
> nope just useless crap running

i think the correct term is sloppy programming. :p

---

### Post by directhex on 2009-06-14
> **juancarlospaco said:**
> remove M$ Mono*(removes Tomboy)*

And F-Spot.

And it's just Mono, not Microsoft Mono.

---

