---
title: "8.10 I gave you a fair chance but your souden't haev tried to be Vista"
date: 2008-12-05
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by josemaster2228 on 2008-12-05
Well after about a moth of desperations with bugs that drive me nuts on 8.10 i finally said bye 8.10 and welcome back 8.04.Me and my dad gave Ibex a good chance but it lokks like vista with a coat of orange colour.it has lots of bugs and i had many kernel panics here is my list of bugs
powerpoint presentation sound is chopy
Kernel panics
Webcam in skype is screwd up
When using compiz it is not very sharp
and many others
this is my story with 8.10 and welcome back 8.04

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-12-06
Believe the "Use What Works" theory applies. As with all software upgrades, investigate compatibility and assure functionality. It appears you have already addressed these issues and returned to the version that meets with both you and your system's requirements.

Seems a wise choice.:-k

---

### Post by solwic on 2008-12-06
> **Tamlynmac said:**
> Believe the "Use What Works" theory applies. As with all software upgrades, investigate compatibility and assure functionality. It appears you have already addressed these issues and returned to the version that meets with both you and your system's requirements.

Seems a wise choice.:-k

No doubt.  I have Hardy set up just how I like it, and there aren't enough new, attractive features to drag me to Ibex.  

@OP: I agree with Tamlynmac; use what works.  There are probably people on these forums still using Dapper or Gutsy, and there's absolutely nothing wrong with that.  

May not be the latest release, but at least it's still Ubuntu. :)

---

### Post by magmon on 2008-12-06
Well im sorry it didnt work for you, but I dont think it "Tryed to be vista" Its quite alot different than vista in many ways. Also, do you guys think 8.04 is better? I've only used 8.10, but if hardy is better I may install it.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-12-06
> magmon 	 		**Re: 8.10 I gave you a fair chance but your souden't haev tried to be Vista**
 Well im sorry it didnt work for you, but I dont think it "Tryed to be vista" Its quite alot different than vista in many ways. Also, do you guys think 8.04 is better? I've only used 8.10, but if hardy is better I may install it. 

Better is relative. No, not as in family.LOL
If 8.1 works for you (as in fully functional and stable), why would you install Hardy? Should you find issues that impede usability, then I would strongly recommend Hardy. Hardy was the last LTS release and after the updates has proven (at least on our systems) to be extremely stable and meets all our needs/expectations. 

Choice - as in OSS - as in free to choose, evaluate and use "at no cost". Almost feels like it should be illegal.:smile:

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2008-12-06
***_[SIZE="4"]If it works dont fix it.[/SIZE]_***

***_[SIZE="4"]If you want bleeding edge, Be prepared to BLEED.[/SIZE]_***

I am trying *.10 because it solves an issue with My machine.  But
then so does 8.04.1.  Will get back to you later on this.

---

### Post by josemaster2228 on 2008-12-06
Thank you all for the responses. The only rthing i can't understand is why are there bugs on the new version that were not there in the old version i think 8.10 is still premature. The main reason i switched was for the kernel panics those were horrible i would be working in a Document for school and boom out of nothing kernel panic

---

### Post by Darrell Lawrence on 2008-12-06
> **josemaster2228 said:**
> Thank you all for the responses. The only rthing i can't understand is why are there bugs on the new version that were not there in the old version i think 8.10 is still premature. The main reason i switched was for the kernel panics those were horrible i would be working in a Document for school and boom out of nothing kernel panic

There's always the possibility that your download of 8.10 was corrupted or that you had a bad burn. It happens. That said, there are some regressions in 8.10 that still need to be resolved, and they may not be playing nice with your particular hardware configuration. Certainly nothing wrong with sticking with 8.04 LTS. It has 3 years of support and is the latest LTS release. Even the normal releases (every 6 months) have 18 months of support, so if a release works for you, you don't have to upgrade every 6 months if you don't want to. As jrock612, mentioned, there are probably folks here that still run Gusty and Dapper.

Darrell

---

### Post by josemaster2228 on 2008-12-06
i will stick to 8.04 till 9.04 comes out and maybe stay with 8.04 if 9.04 is also buggy and no my burn was slow the download was not corrupted i even did a disk check and it was perfect but thanks for the response

---

### Post by nickdbliss on 2008-12-06
i am having similar issues with intrepid. Quality is not good as compared to 8.04, atleast for me. But i am hoping these issues will be resolved soon. ):P

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2008-12-07
There is also the possibility that since your install of 8.04 your
CD/DVD rom has become dirty.  Clean it, try another, if you can. 
Try a different brand of media.  All of these have worked for me at one time or another.

---

