---
title: "9.04 Better than Vista and Windows 7!"
date: 2009-05-09
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by zaphod777 on 2009-05-09
I have been toying around with linuix for quite a while and even ran it on my work laptop for 6 months but eventually had to switch back to XP because I needed a lot of software that wouldn't work. 

Anyway

I installed 9.04 on my home laptop Dell XPS 1530 to test it out and I am pretty amazed. 

Everything I had trouble with before has been fixed. 

It is faster than Vista and Windows 7 I tried Windows 7 RC and got tired of the hangs and slow IE browsing so now I am back on 9.04 and loving it. 

The desktop effects are also way better than on vista or windows 7 I find myself draging windows around when I am bored just to watch the wobble. 

By the way I am a The Team leader for the Server team for a North America for a Global Corporation. 

We are mostly a Windows Shop but I love VMWARE I manage about 12 ESX Servers running a couple hundred VM servers. 


Funny how VMWARE doesn't make a linux VI Client but that is another topic.

Any way basicly 9.04 Rocks! 

I think that Ubuntu is almost there. If we could get a little better software compatibility or a really good replacement for outlook we would get better adoption.

---

### Post by Ms_Angel_D on 2009-05-09
Glad your enjoying Ubuntu, Have you tried thunderbird, there are quite few extensions that when used make it comprable to outlook.

[https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/)

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-05-09
I got news for ya, friend.  The very first version of Ubuntu was likely better than Vista and Windows 7.  :)

Anyway, Happy Ubuntuing.  :)

---

### Post by Saint Angeles on 2009-05-09
ive been using evolution lately and i freekin love it. plus, theres all kinds of plugins and stuff for it that are available in the repos. i think it kills outlook's corpse.

i used to use thunderbird because i like firefox so i thought logically, i should use thunderbird... but it doesn't seem to have nearly as many features and evolution integrates really swell into GNOME.

---

### Post by javyn999 on 2009-05-09
Evo can't compete with Outlook until it can easily sync with Blackberries.  

I have a BB and have to use Wordperfect at work (not my choice), so that keeps me on Windows for the time being.

---

### Post by zaphod777 on 2009-05-10
> **MetalHellsAngel said:**
> Glad your enjoying Ubuntu, Have you tried thunderbird, there are quite few extensions that when used make it comprable to outlook.

[https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/)

I used it for a while but it doesn't work that great with exchange. I used Imap but i need somthing that really works with calendars as I get about 4 hours of conf calls a day.

---

### Post by Ms_Angel_D on 2009-05-10
Here's a tutorial on using Exchange with evolution [http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2006/10/24/use-evolution-with-microsoft-exchange-ubuntu-606-610/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2006/10/24/use-evolution-with-microsoft-exchange-ubuntu-606-610/)

---

### Post by Sand &amp; Mercury on 2009-05-10
> **iRun said:**
> I got news for ya, friend.  The very first version of Ubuntu was likely better than Vista and Windows 7.  :)
The first release of Ubuntu is pretty rocky dude. It's improved enormously over the last five years.

---

### Post by Giant Speck on 2009-05-10
> **Sand & Mercury said:**
> The first release of Ubuntu is pretty rocky dude.

Which is exactly why they called it Warty Warthog.

---

### Post by Niniel on 2009-05-11
To return to the subject of this thread, I agree. I recently installed Windows XP, Windows 7 RC and Ubuntu 9.04 on a computer, and after playing around with Windows 7 a bit I would like to note the following:

- [COLOR="Red"]no graphics driver for my (admittedly old - ATI Radeon 9600 Mobility) graphics card in W7 - works ok with a standard VGA driver (but no wide-screen, no 3d acceleration)[/COLOR]
vs.
[COLOR="Green"]great graphics support through the open source ati driver (wide-screen, acceleration, desktop effects)[/COLOR]

- [COLOR="Red"]no sound in W7 - Realtek AC97 chip won't work, even with newest drivers from manufacturer[/COLOR]
vs. 
[COLOR="Green"]Pulse Audio sound works[/COLOR]

But Windows 7 is not bad, in fact, I my first impression is quite favourable. It installed easily - big plus: I was able to install it from a DVD-RW the first time I tried, whereas it took me 4 (!) attempts to burn a working Ubuntu CD-R - if slowly, without requiring several reboots like XP. Wireless worked out of the box. 
It runs well on my elderly, lower-end laptop (HP Pavilion, 2.4 GHz Mobile Pentium IV, 1.2 GB of RAM), and it looks nice, too.

I had to chuckle though when I noticed several things where the Windows team seems to have taken some... inspiration from Linux (nothing wrong with that, after all, it's free and open):
- the W7 boot manager reminds me of Grub, complete with a memory test at the bottom
- the new Power Shell CLI knows (at least some) Unix commands - out of habit and without thinking I typed "ls", and lo and behold, I was shown a list of directories and files
- W7 knows a form of "sudo" (maybe Vista does too, but I've never run that) - when you try to do things that may alter the system, a box pops up warning you and asking for your password

So on this particular machine of mine, Ubuntu works even better than Windows 7, which for me makes Ubuntu a winner, especially since OS and applications are also free.

---

### Post by MysticGold04 on 2009-05-11
I have a copy of Windows 7 RC and my network card is not recognized.  This is an Intel PCI 10/100 card... however works great in XP/Linux... just not in Vista/Windows 7.  Strange if you ask me.

---

### Post by yeaitsdark on 2009-05-11
I very much agree. I also like to state I really LOVE 9.04. Just got around to installing it today. It's far far better than the last two releases in my humble opinion. Very snappy. Great job on behalf of the devs, clearly they put a tremendous amount of work into really refining this release.

Also, Ubuntu has always been better than any version of Windows :D (Sadly, I play a lot of DirectX heavy games, so I end up spending too much time in Windows)

---

### Post by empty_spaces on 2009-05-11
Although Ubuntu is the primary OS on my main laptop, and 9.04 has resolved all my issues with Intrepid, I have to admit I was looking forward to testing out the Win7 RC.

I installed it alongside the WinXP partition on my home PC (1.5 yrs old, mostly used by my wife, otherwise it would have had Ubuntu by now :)) and the installation went along just fine.

However, try as I might, I could not get my Logitech Quickcam Messenger to work with Win7. Nor could my Netgear WG111 USB wireless adapter provide a consistent signal. Both these devices work without issues on XP. So after struggling with these 2 things for 2 days, I gave up on Win7.

**This will probably be one of the biggest downsides of Win7 - very limited support for hardware that is over 4-5 years old.**

I was one of the rare few who actually liked Vista over XP if we can ignore the high ram usage(I had 3GB, so no issue) and the bundled crapware OEMs (which I cleaned out manually), so I was looking forward to using Win7 on our HomePC, at least for a year.

Looks like that's not gonna happen. Oh well.

---

### Post by zaphod777 on 2009-05-11
I didn't think I would be able to run Linux as my primary OS at home but 9.04 rocks originaly I just wanted to test it. 

One thing I don't miss about Vista?

14 GB Windows folder. There is no good reason for that especially when you have removed all of the programs.

---

### Post by maflynn on 2009-05-12
Agreed,
I use OSX at home, and have a windows partition (bootcamp/vmware) on my MacBook Pro.  I found kubuntu (I'm liking the KDE interface better)  to be superior to windows XP and certainly Vista. I've had the beta of win7 loaded on my bootcamp partition and like ubuntu much much better.

If I can figure out how to get OSX running in virtualbox I'll run completely in ubuntu.

I found that ubuntu consumes much less resources, is faster and stable. I'm still have some issues with 9.04 so you'll see some threads but all in all I'm well on my way to replacing windows.

---

### Post by Gh0st83 on 2009-05-12
Long time lurker, first time poster! 

I've been using Ubuntu for a little while now, since 8.10, after my laptop's Windows XP install went Tango Uniform; read as blue screens et al.  Tried Fedora first actually, but ran into a lot of problems with hardware and wireless support.  Found my way to Ubuntu and haven't looked back.  It's been the primary OS on my laptop ever since.  I feel a lot safer and more secure using Ubuntu to surf the web and even stream audio to my Xbox.


I recently purchased new PC hardware since my last desktop was getting up there in age, 3 years and counting.  Nice AMD64 Athlon 3000+ with 2GB of RAM (only WinXP installed though), not too shabby, but limited by AGP cards for graphics.

So I recently went out and purchased a Phenom II AM3 Quad Core with 6GB of DDR3 RAM and a Radeon 4890 to boot! :)

9.04 had just come out so I put the 64bit version of that and Windows 7 64bit 7077 beta version to try it out.  Windows 7 uses 900MB of RAM at boot and idle, that's around 14-15%.  Jaunty on the other hand uses 5% RAM at boot and idle, that's only 300MB.   

Jaunty took me less than 15 minutes to install
Win7 took me over 50 minutes to install

Jaunty has yet to crash on me
Win7 hard locked on me after clicking a link in IE8 to go to Yahoo.. seriously Microsoft??

Jaunty and Win7 are comparable in looks and effects, but Ubuntu in general has had these effects for years, and is far more customizable and a lot less resource dependent!


I'll still have to use a version of Windows for the time being for gaming, but that's about the only reason for Windows for me.  Everything else I can do happily and _freely_ through Ubuntu!


Rock on Ubuntu!

---

### Post by donniezazen on 2009-05-13
Hi All,

I have been using Ubuntu for 2 years now. I love it so much nothing, no windows 7, can take it away from me. But as far as desktop is concerned i like the clean, clear and lively colors of Windows 7. I would like to see it in future Ubuntu versions.

Enjoy.

---

