---
title: "10.10 Netbook Version"
date: 2010-09-25
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Otis Spunkmiyer on 2010-09-25
Just tested 10.10 netbook on my 10.1 screen netbook which came with Windows 7 starter edition. And I’m staying with Windows.
Maverick Meerkat 10.10 netbook version is simply horrible ! [-(
Terrible UI for any screen under 13 inches. The concept is towards a touch screen but it still will not be good for a small screen. I realize it’s still being tested but my mouse froze twice and I had to do a hard shut down. Wifi connected perfectly, but my indicator light kept blinking on and off. It did not however affect me losing the signal. Anyway I kept it on my netbook all of about 15 minutes. At this point I’m done with Ubuntu. If I ever go to a Linux distro again it will be with Linux Mint. I don’t know why I keep thinking there is something better out there then Windows, and Windows 7 rocks, even the limited starter edition is far better then a full fledge Linux desktop. Security issues have never been an issue for me in Windows.
-
The problem as I see it, are far to many hands in the mix in regards to development and the thought pattern that try’s to be so different from a Windows or even a Mac OS. Ubuntu was never a learning curve for me and it always worked out of the box for me, it’s the User Interface especially in the netbook editions that leads me back to Windows. And in my opinion 9.10 was the better version. (netbook remix)
-
The bigger complaint for me with any Linux is a simple restore like Windows has. On average I restore my system once a week, because I tend to mess things up. Thank who ever, I loaded 10.10 in the virtual..

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-09-25
:lolflag: everyone has different tastes.

it's work in progress, it's not like they've done it before, it's a learning process for everyone.
i get the lockups to when mousing over the dock, i think it's a intel thing.
hopefully it will work itself out with updates.

no one says you have to use the netbook version the desktop version works fine on any netbook.

---

### Post by Otis Spunkmiyer on 2010-09-25
I know, but I like the netbook concept.  Just make it fit and not like it's squeeze in.  I prefer what some think looks 'fisher price' like.  Those in development have to keep 'screen real-estate' in focus. On a 10.1 inch screen every fraction matters.  And when I click on the browser I don't want to give up that inch on the left side.  It should disappear until I go back to the desktop.  Me thinks to much consumption of the 'java',,,try a new flavor of beans..

---

### Post by lancest on 2010-09-25
Netbook interfaces are still evolving.
I don't prefer them.

Regular Ubuntu is a great option.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-09-25
> **Otis Spunkmiyer said:**
> I know, but I like the netbook concept.  Just make it fit and not like it's squeeze in.  I prefer what some think looks 'fisher price' like.  Those in development have to keep 'screen real-estate' in focus. On a 10.1 inch screen every fraction matters.  And when I click on the browser I don't want to give up that inch on the left side.  It should disappear until I go back to the desktop.  Me thinks to much consumption of the 'java',,,try a new flavor of beans..


i understand, i think the dock should be under windows & the icon on the top should be a show desktop instead of that stupid home screen i doubt anyone's using.
also how can they not add a show desktop? i made my own cause i use it.
i also think you should be able to move all the icons, i don't want my applications icon on the bottom.

---

### Post by eeBus on 2010-11-19
I have W7 and Ubuntu 10.04 LTS desktop edition on my 10.1 inch netbook and ONLY use Ubuntu. Don't forget that you can use Function key F11 to have most applications fill the screen.

I'm staying away from 10.10 at present, and am not surprised that you didn't enjoy the experience.

---

### Post by marl30 on 2010-11-19
I can certainly understand your disappointment. I installed the 10.10 mobile desktop on my computer a couple of days ago just to test it, and by the following day I uninstalled it... I didn't like it one bit! I have tried 10.04 mobile desktop in the past and was very impress actually. Still, there are many flavours of Ubuntu. If you don't like that one you could always try another, or you could go with the desktop version of Ubuntu 10.10, which I would have installed if I had a netbook.

---

