---
title: "8.04 unimpressive, not ready"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by TechDragon on 2008-04-27
I have been using 7.10 for awhile and it worked flawlessly, it seemed a little sluggish but it worked.  

In 8.04 I have been fight video card issues like crazy.  My IBM t60 with integrated x1300 begrudgingly does dual monitors but locks up hard when the screen goes to screen saver, or I lock the session.  I have tried installing via Ubuntu's standard method of adding prop drivers, I have used Envy, and I have even installed my own straight from AMD\ATI.  

I had the ability to switch this laptop out for and IBM t61 with an Intel gma x3100 integrated video card, and although everything seems to be working it refuses to use anything other than the generic vesa driver.  

I have 500 employees under my IT management and over 200 have IBM t60's with ati integrated x1300's and all of them have a docking station with dual 19" monitors hooked to it.  In 7.10 this arrangement worked in 8.04 it does not.  It is not a problem to be pointed\shuffled off on ATI it is an issue with 8.04 something changed and it wasn't ATI both are trying to use the 8.3 drivers.

I would like to switch to 8.04 it has a lot of nice features and is an LTS.  

Hardy Heron, at this point doesn't soar, and can barely walk.

My setup is not strange, it is used by a ton of business's after all it is an IBM.  I also have a Dell Inspiron 1505 my own personal and it does the same thing.

I am not a kernel hacker but I have a degree in Comp Sci and have been using computers since childhood, it is not a competency issue on my part.

Sorry but I keep getting a lot of excuses, instead of solutions.  7.10 worked, 8.04 doesn't and is about to be shelved.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-04-27
Hope you've been to launchpad with this one.

---

### Post by TechDragon on 2008-04-27
yes, I have posted.

question number# 30657

I haven't posted a question there before.  Like I stated 7.10 either just worked or I found workarounds.

How long does it normally take for someone to respond?  Does anyone actually ever respond?  I would be glad to assist in any way possible, or try about anything.

---

### Post by TechDragon on 2008-04-28
only solution I found was to revert back to 7.10

---

### Post by dr.phees on 2008-04-28
Hi. How did you revert to 7.10? I want to, too.

I have a T40. On 7.10 I had xubuntu running with compiz and a few nice effects. It was running perfectly smooth and fast, but on 8.04 I can't even login to xfce regularly without a blank screen. Compiz is disabled for PCs with ATI cards, etc. Too bad! My life with 7.10 was so much better...

---

### Post by SlappyPappy on 2008-04-28
It's a shame that it didn't work out of the box for you. I'm in no rush and really happy with Gutsy. I guess you were looking for a speed increase.

BTW I tried installing Gutsy on an IBM board with similar specs an it was a no go. Just because something has IBM stamped on it, doesn't mean it's superior or perfect for that matter. I wound up installing on an older Siemens board I had lying around. Works a treat. Got everything going. A few struggles but nothing insane.

After a month goes by I'll be trying out Hardy. I am in no rush while I have such a stable system.

Best of luck and hope you find a solution!  :)

---

### Post by Cypher on 2008-04-28
> **dr.phees said:**
> Hi. How did you revert to 7.10? I want to, too.

I have a T40. On 7.10 I had xubuntu running with compiz and a few nice effects. It was running perfectly smooth and fast, but on 8.04 I can't even login to xfce regularly without a blank screen. Compiz is disabled for PCs with ATI cards, etc. Too bad! My life with 7.10 was so much better...

The only way to revert from 8.04 to 7.10 is to re-install.

---

### Post by FredB on 2008-04-28
Yes, indeed. But for me, with a good GPU maker (nvidia), no trouble using Hardy on my Acer Laptop. It is even faster than gutsy...

---

### Post by loserboy on 2008-04-28
ubuntu is always striving to be sort of a "latest and greatest" distro and when they implement new features it can often break other ones as you probably know, just ask alot of the HP users what they think of gutsy compared to feisty. 
posting to launchpad is about the best you can do, and I've always gotten a reply there, although not always helpful it was fairly quick. Theres also the chance that your problem will be fixed in an upcoming update.

---

### Post by loserboy on 2008-04-28
oops my first double post

---

### Post by keylime on 2008-04-28
8.04 for me, is swift compared to the last distro. I performed a clean install and I am quite pleased with the performance.

Currently I have the 32 bit version on a Latitude D630, and a 64 bit version on a NC8430. Both installed and runs my hardware nicely, and even does WPA without issue!

---

### Post by FredB on 2008-04-28
Don't say that too loud :)

Complaining people won't support it :)

I'm using hardy since beta, flawlessly.

---

### Post by TechDragon on 2008-04-29
I am impressed by its speed, and its look just not with its video card detection and performance.  I have posted a question at launchpad 30657 and was told to turn it into a bug.  I received a response but it was more of a not our fault sorry, type of response.  I insisted that everything worked on 7.10 I am still using the same ati 8.3 drivers the only thing that changed was something in Ubuntu.  We shall see, if they do anything about it.  Intel doesn't work right either, it refuses to use anything other than generic VESA. 

I have both 7.10 and 8.04 installed on both an IBM t60 and a T61, granted as one person said IBM does not equal perfect but it does equal a large portion of business's.

---

