---
title: "9.04 good install on laptop with just a couple of quirks :)"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by DavidVanCan on 2009-04-27
Except for the following, relatively minor issues 9.04 is working fine on my laptop after an "alternate installation".

Jaunty Jackalope 9.04
Dell Inspiron 6000 laptop.

-------------------

1a) These menu items are installed by default but don't work. They should either be made to work or they should not be installed by default:
[Applications][Other]<Font Viewer>
   (workaround: I installed "FontMatrix")
[Applications][System Tools]<Root Terminal>
   (workaround: change command to: gnome-terminal -e "sudo -i")

1b) These menu items can be enabled using "Add/Remove" but didn't work for me:
[Applications][Other]<Theme Installer>
[Applications][System Tools]<Report a problem>
[Applications][Accessories]<Panel> I'm not sure what this is supposed to do so maybe I misunderstood its purpose.

2) On a positive note, I have an older ATI graphics chip on my laptop and the installer installed the FOSS (SGI) video drivers by default. The FOSS drivers worked fine for me with a single exception. I enabled the CompizConfig Settings Manager and all the nice effects worked (yay!), except that when the "Desktop Cube" is allowed to be somewhat transparent the following applications had display problems: Stellarium, glMatix screensaver (there may well be other graphics programs that don't work either, but I noticed the problem with these two).

It is as though Stellarium (for example) is trying to draw the contents of its window to the screen while, at the same time, Gnome is trying to draw the transparent cube face. This produces massive flickering. The workaround was to make the "Desktop Cube" opaque when not rotating in the Compiz Settings Manager ( [Desktop Cube][Transparent Cube][Opacity when not rotating] = 100 ).

Thanks again Ubuntu team. Keep up the good work!

---

### Post by lostandcold on 2009-05-05
I am also having display problems with stellarium.

---

