---
title: "10.04 rc removed evolution borked system"
date: 2010-04-23
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by dartdog on 2010-04-23
well it beginning to seem that I'm cursed.. I finally got what appeared to be a stable system and began to install a bunch of stuff and customize it.. when I went to remove evolution I ended up in a reboot loop, it seems that the gnome components cannot be removed..???  what's worse is my backup would not boot.. so I had to clear the disk and go back to my semi usable beta2 backup then I'll try the rc sort of backup I created via remastersys what was very weird was that the remastersys backup made from my mostly rc 1 version kept trying to boot the HD instead of the cd... even after reformatting the HD!!! very strange...  The new boot sequence stuff would appear to be very delicate and hard to deal with if it gets messed up.. so caution advised... if everything works great,, but recovery can be very problematic.
You can search on dartdog for the travails to here...

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-04-24
The moral of the story is: If it says it's going to remove gnome-panel, then DON'T DO IT.

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-04-24
> **dartdog said:**
> when I went to remove evolution I ended up in a reboot loop, it seems that the gnome components cannot be removed..???

How did you try to take out Evolution, all it wants to remove on my Lucid system is...

evolution, evolution-couchdb, evolution-exchange, evolution-indicator, and evolution-plugins.

---

### Post by armandh on 2010-04-24
yep it is easier just to pull the icon

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-04-24
> **armandh said:**
> yep it is easier just to pull the icon

I agree. If you are not tight for hard drive space, it won't hurt to just leave it. Plus, it doesn't speed up your computer by removing it. If it ain't broke, don't fix it. Just ignore it.

---

