---
title: "9.04 Very Impressive"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by tslawinski on 2009-04-23
Well done Ubuntu Team... Have been here for two iterations now. It just gets better.

---

### Post by aniruddha on 2009-04-24
I heartily second that. Awesome work guys.

---

### Post by caravel on 2009-04-24
It's getting a lot of good press.  I suppose this means I have to reinstall... again.  I might try the distribution upgrade first though...

---

### Post by SpyroViper on 2009-04-24
> **caravel said:**
> It's getting a lot of good press.  I suppose this means I have to reinstall... again.  I might try the distribution upgrade first though...

Do it..  do it NOW! :guitar:

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2009-04-24
+1

9.04 is a very good release. 
Kudos to the Ubuntu dev.!      :KS

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2009-04-24
> **caravel said:**
> I might try the distribution upgrade first though...
good luck with that.

---

### Post by caravel on 2009-04-24
Distribution upgrade seems totally successful...  Everything is working as it was before the upgrade.  My wireless hasn't improved but I didn't expect it to so that's not an issue.  Everything else seems to be working however...

---

### Post by chrismoore on 2009-04-24
I am also very impressed with Ubuntu 9.04. 

I'm using my wife's old laptop.  She wanted a shiny new Vaio and she let me have her old Toshiba to mess around with.  All the restore CDs are long gone.  I've dabbled with Linux since 1997 and have always had bad experiences - something didn't work or it was too difficult to do this or too much work to do that.  

In short I've never been impressed enough to get away from Windows. 

I'm very impressed with Ubuntu though.  I couldn't get 8.10 to work with my wireless but that's fixed in 9.04.  

It looks nice and works nice internally, a good combination.  I am glad to be a ubuntu user!!  

I'm dual-booting this and WinXP right now.  I'm not sure how much longer windows will last!

---

### Post by beekr on 2009-04-24
My hat is off to Ubuntu. Upgrading from 8.1 to 9.04 was amazing -no command line. It all started when I was checking for updates and happened to notice the little "Upgrade to 9.04" button. I clicked on it and started the process. I didn't have to burn a new ISO. I didn't have to run command line; though I might have to to upgrade the kids' PCs ^_^ . The entire process ran smooth and quickly. Thanks again Ubuntu team.

Beekr

---

### Post by caravel on 2009-04-24
I was having problems which I think were related to sound in UT 20004.  It was very choppy and lagging every few seconds or so, now since upgrading to 9.04 it's cured the problem entirely and performance is superb on the higher quality settings.  I heard rumours that sound had been improved and it seems that it has.  Very positive so far.

-Edit: Upgrade actually didn't work.  I booted up this morning and was greeted with a garbled log in screen.  I've since reinstalled clean and it's now ok so far.

---

### Post by JK3mp on 2009-04-24
Yes been very smooth for me as well. I've noticed drastic improvments in both intrepid and now jaunty. Its always good to be moving forward. :-) . Only problems i ever heard of were some of those whose Gfx card (ATI) were blacklisted with the new catalyst drivers. Only thing i personally can complain is a lil lag on windows opening while using emerald, but thats expected. If its starting off this great i can't wait till they really get to work with updates and fixes. :D

---

