---
title: "9.10 Ugly login, very unstable"
date: 2009-11-29
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Lyleb on 2009-11-29
VERY disappointed with 9.10. Will probably re-install 9.04.

Not only is the login screen the ugliest I've ever seen, but this version is so unstable that it's worse than any version of Windows ever was. Two to five hard reboots needed per day. Not acceptable.

If I had a vote, 9.10 would be pulled and 9.04 would be the current version until something that works is ready. Doing a great disservice to the UBUNTU community by having this out there.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-11-29
Moved to Ubuntu Testimonials & Experiences

---

### Post by Arthur_D on 2009-11-29
> **Lyleb said:**
> VERY disappointed with 9.10. Will probably re-install 9.04.

Not only is the login screen the ugliest I've ever seen, but this version is so unstable that it's worse than any version of Windows ever was. Two to five hard reboots needed per day. Not acceptable.

If I had a vote, 9.10 would be pulled and 9.04 would be the current version until something that works is ready. Doing a great disservice to the UBUNTU community by having this out there.
And you think everyone else have the same problems?
A comparison of votes showed that 9.10 is the version with least problems until now.

Though, I agree that the login screen wasn't exactly pretty, but many others seems to like it quite well. And, I got an issue in 9.10 that wasn't there in 9.04. But I don't think 9.10 should be pulled because of that.

---

### Post by Lyleb on 2009-11-29
Been hunting for a solution, seems this is a common problem, with about as many "fixes" as threads. Been using Linux for about 8 years now, almost exclusively for about 4 years. Several different flavors. This is the WORST I've experienced.

---

### Post by Glucklich on 2009-11-29
Yeah. Stick with 9.04 for now and see if 10.04 suits you better. By the way, 10.04 will be a LTS. If it pleases you, stick with it until the next LTS release.

---

### Post by Norm24 on 2009-11-29
Other than the lame login screen Karmic is by the far the best most stable version of Ubuntu I've ever used.

I hope not much changes in Lucid.The idea of what I have now in an LTS gets me drooling.

---

### Post by Arthur_D on 2009-11-29
> **Norm24 said:**
> Other than the lame login screen Karmic is by the far the best most stable version of Ubuntu I've ever used.

I hope not much changes in Lucid.The idea of what I have now in an LTS gets me drooling.
Agreed. Lyleb has a point, so it's time for some real bug squishing. (Perhaps they should get Timon & Pumbaa on the team; they're quite experienced bug hunters! :p)
But I think it's unfair to tout 9.10 as a release that might put users off when a poll shows otherwise. Besides, I remember when 9.04 came out, it got the same treatment, particularly because of the issues with Intel gfx. So every new release will disappoint somebody. That's just how it is.

---

### Post by Lyleb on 2009-11-29
> **Arthur_D said:**
> 
But I think it's unfair to tout 9.10 as a release that might put users off when a poll shows otherwise. Besides, I remember when 9.04 came out, it got the same treatment, particularly because of the issues with Intel gfx. So every new release will disappoint somebody. That's just how it is.

Well, I can say that if this were my first experience with Ubuntu, It would be a very long time before I tried it again. Too many other flavors out there. That is supposed to be a Linux strong point - stability. If anything crashes, it's the application, not the system.

---

### Post by Arthur_D on 2009-11-29
Stability has never been the best in Ubuntu anyway, because of the 6-month cycle.
LTS releases for that.
And yeah, I would probably also get put off by major problems like yours. But if I were to install Ubuntu for someone, I would try 9.10 before trying 9.04, 8.10 or 8.04. I would also explain that because of little to no cooperation from many hardware manufacturers, things may not work like it should with the newest version. It's a sad fact, but nevertheless it's a fact, and people should be informed of that as soon as possible.

---

### Post by perixx on 2009-11-29
While I disagree in the current Xubuntu release being ugly in its appearance, I support your statement of Karmic being one of the less enjoyable releases, compared to the last few, nevertheless.

Even with the infamous Thunar bug with hidden files finally vanished, I'm somewhat disappointed by Karmi(x)'s overall performance so far. The boot time was well enough with Ibex. 
Having a little better boot time now, I'm but facing stability- and reliability-problems I'm not used to from Xubuntu.

Upgrading a fresh(!) 9.04 version to 9.10 left me with no sound, leaving no other obvious solution but to re-install 9.10 completely. It was claimed, that the upgrade process would be painless.
The installation menu produced out-of-screen OK-buttons and a wrong screen resolution.

Waking up from doze mode was not optimal in 8.10 - now it's bound to crash the system. Many points of configuration have been altered and grew rather complicated, making it next to impossible to help yourself with problems. Grub2 is pretty awkward to configure, far from intuitive (I'd kept my hands off this, if I knew that before, in the first place). 
X-, input device- and gdm-configuration is simply mysterious to me now, as is it, how to change the graphics driver.

Thunar is getting better in some ways, in some it's not, e.g. the reliability and intuitivity of shortcuts.
 
The new 'network manager applet' is crap. Granted, it's also in 9.04, but... Either a graphical GUI works as reliable as the cli-tools it's based on or tries to replace, or it's best kept out, in my opinion. Trying to configure a DSL-connection (with only DSL modem and PPPoE) seems to be impossible with it. 
Even better: using the trusty cli-based 'pppoeconf' will get you fixed up in 30 seconds, leaving you with a working network configuration, which network manager isn't capable of detecting at all.

Other things I can't really pin down to what's responsible for, like Open Office's crippled windows on resizing - obviously only on the new XFCE-based Debian distros, including Xubuntu.

The fact, that there's not only flickering in Flash games or videos in OpenGL mode with compiz enabled now, but in general, could have several causes. But needless to say, that it adds up to the feeling working on a pile of garbage.

It's but true that you'll have to learn the new ways of a system, but in 9.10 there's so many of them, that I can hardly keep up with it, unless investing a considerable amount of time, which I currently don't have at my disposal.

*sigh*
Yet I should be getting some work done instead of ranting off about my frustrating Xubuntu experiences lately, so, I'll 'make it so' 

:)


EDIT: one more thing: I was surprised in a good way, that 9.10 supports my Wacom tablet from start, which many other distro's don't. 
A small drawback, though: the scrolling ribbon will only work upwards. To change that, I'd have to dig into how to configure this in 9.10, since the input devices are handled completely different now.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-29
Check the link in my signature for the thread in which I list and work through most of my major Karmic problems (including system instability, no sound, and that ugly boot screen). Using the Lucid RC kernel is the most important step to fixing most everything, I think. Karmic as shipped was a complete bomb on some hardware (including my Lenovo Y530), but I've been able to get it running pretty well now after about a week of pain and doubt.

---

### Post by perixx on 2009-11-29
@michaelzap:

Perhaps I'lll give some of your suggestions a try. Using an alternative kernel is no quick fix, though, and it won't help with my most pressing problem of not being able to log in, supposedly. 
Perhaps shutting down the last session with some apps still open is causing this...

Well, using the term 'pile of garbage' along with Ubuntu is certainly not fair, considering the fact, I'm working with a perfectly stable Mint7 (9.04 Gnome-based) here. But using XFCE along with Ubuntu in particular seems not be be a good choice to me at this time.

It's not only appearing to be an unreliable combination lately, but also its native applications have been suffering in terms of quality, I feel. Like xfce4-mixer or Brasero (which never really worked well) or Open Office (which is more of a Debian-XFCE problem, apparently). Also Firefox is less stable than it used to be, but that's maybe not really Xubuntu's fault.


perixx

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-29
> **perixx said:**
> @michaelzap:

Perhaps I'lll give some of your suggestions a try. Using an alternative kernel is no quick fix, though, and it won't help with my most pressing problem of not being able to log in, supposedly. 

Actually, it really is a quick and easy fix. You don't need to compile a kernel for your system or anything like that. Just download the .deb files for your architecture (amd64 or i386), doubleclick on them, and restart and choose the RC kernel from Grub). That's it. If it doesn't fix things for you, restart again and choose the older kernel (and delete the new one from Synaptic if you like). No pain and no risk.

Check the official Karmic release notes for a known issue regarding your login loop issue, since I think that's covered in there.

---

### Post by arvevans on 2009-11-29
Ubuntu 9.10 with Gnome was installed here on the second day of availability.  It has been running just fine since then.  No lockups, no reboots, no problems.  The boot splash screen is only seen during the few seconds required to boot and log in, so not really any issue with whether it is ugly or beautiful.

Frequent Linux lockups and/or reboots can be caused by (1) memory problems, (2) corrupted software, (3) faulty hard drives, (4) web browser virus problems, and (5) installing unsupported and unstable programs.  Of course defective hardware would also cause problems with other OS.  If browsing suspected web sites, you can expect that sooner or later your browser will become infected with something bad.

Arv
_._

---

### Post by Methuselah on 2009-11-29
I agree that it is worth running memtest86 from the LiveCD.
If just to rule it out as a cause of problems.

However, I do not agree with dismissing all user issues as their fault or the fault of their hardware.
Sometimes software has bugs and you're just unlucky enough to hit on them.

I do believe Karmic is a somewhat more unstable release due to it receiving so many technology changes ahead of next year's LTS.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-29
> **arvevans said:**
> Ubuntu 9.10 with Gnome was installed here on the second day of availability.  It has been running just fine since then.  No lockups, no reboots, no problems.  The boot splash screen is only seen during the few seconds required to boot and log in, so not really any issue with whether it is ugly or beautiful.

Frequent Linux lockups and/or reboots can be caused by (1) memory problems, (2) corrupted software, (3) faulty hard drives, (4) web browser virus problems, and (5) installing unsupported and unstable programs.  Of course defective hardware would also cause problems with other OS.  If browsing suspected web sites, you can expect that sooner or later your browser will become infected with something bad.

Arv
_._

All true and good general info, but the Karmic kernel also causes a number of frezes and lockups right out of the box on hardware that functions fine using Jaunty, Windows, or any other system that doesn't use that kernel. It was just a very bad egg for some of us. The Lucid kernel seems to fix most of these issues on affected hardware.

---

### Post by perixx on 2009-11-29
Hope you're right, 


and I'll try that as soon as there's some time. 
Well said, concerning the 'bad egg'. These issues are kind of prone to blow your system right in your face, just when you can't afford it to happen.
If my 8.04 hadn't literally worn out, I'd have maybe waited for 10.4, also, because I hope they'll have the new Xorg version implemented, which (hopefully) will eliminate the flickering- and performance issues with Compiz / OpenGL and introduce more improvement results from Ati's 3D chip specification publications.

Anyway, for the time being, I guess I'll switch over to Mint for my everyday's work, which saved me a lot of time and so far 'just works' 
:]

EDIT:
By doing so, it's not necessary to turn on Ubuntu and learn a new system from scratch...


perixx

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-29
> **perixx said:**
> Anyway, for the time being, I guess I'll switch over to Mint for my everyday's work, which saved me a lot of time and so far 'just works' 


Mint 8 (Helena) is based on Karmic and uses the same kernel, so you might have exactly the same problems there (only purtier). Other folks have tried the most recent Fedora and OpenSUSE with this kernel and found the same thing. You could always use Mint 7 (Gloria), which is based on Jaunty.

If you're going to reformat anyway, maybe you should at least try the Lucid RC kernel first to see if it fixes things for you (what have you got to lose?).

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-29
> **michaelzap said:**
> Mint 8 (Helena) is based on Karmic and uses the same kernel, so you might have exactly the same problems there (only purtier). Other folks have tried the most recent Fedora and OpenSUSE with this kernel and found the same thing. You could always use Mint 7 (Gloria), which is based on Jaunty.

If you're going to reformat anyway, maybe you should at least try the Lucid RC kernel first to see if it fixes things for you (what have you got to lose?).

I second this. I have not tried it,but I do have faith in your advice. I tried Fedora12 to find the same few small problems I was having with Karmic and Squeeze. I went back to Jaunty because it is the best OS distro I have ever used.

---

### Post by expxe on 2009-11-29
i agree, the login is very ugly, not very good first impression for a operating system that is suppose to showcase the best of linux

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-29
Opinions are opinions and everyone has a different one. I thought the login window looked fine. It definitely looked better that any Windows login screen.

---

### Post by longtom on 2009-11-30
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> Opinions are opinions and everyone has a different one. I thought the login window looked fine. It definitely looked better that any Windows login screen.

I wouldn't want Ubuntu to compare with that.  There are other options around - if you need to compare.

---

### Post by caravel on 2009-11-30
Can you not simply select a different login window?

As to stability - it's based on Debian _unstable_, so what did you expect?

---

### Post by ElSlunko on 2009-11-30
This script fixed the background issue for me. I think it should be included by default!

[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2009/11/desktop-wallpaper-as-xsplash.html](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2009/11/desktop-wallpaper-as-xsplash.html)

---

### Post by Lyleb on 2009-11-30
> **caravel said:**
> Can you not simply select a different login window?

As to stability - it's based on Debian _unstable_, so what did you expect?


Better than 2 to 5 hard reboots/day. Either that  or label it "unusable".

---

### Post by emigrant on 2009-11-30
karmic :thumbsdown:

---

### Post by perixx on 2009-11-30
> If you're going to reformat anyway, maybe you should at least try the Lucid RC kernel first to see if it fixes things for you (what have you got to lose?).
I didn't say I'd do that - only in case of emergency. Even back with XP, I hardly ever reinstalled my System just because something didn't work well, as some people I know, tend to do.
At least with Feisty and Hardy I've gone through quite some compiling and hacking, especially because of graphics- and sound drivers.
More than once, I reached a point where it seemed unlikely to ever get X back, but it in the end, things always got fixed. 

Lately, sound has been more trouble than it used to be with Feisty, which astounded me. After some update, it was broken, but perhaps because of some other experiments I've performed earlier on the System, so I finally installed Karmic. 
It's only a few weeks, since my last fresh installation of 9.10 and I refuse to reinstall it all again just yet. I just don't have the time right now, to investigate this mess a little more thoroughly.

But as always is, it's not a problem, if a System you've really messed around with, quits service. It's when a fresh System breaks down on carrying out basic tasks, which is actually annoying.

EDIT:
On a second thought, it's maybe more sensible to stay with 9.04, until 10.04 is out, before investing too much time in experiments.


perixx

---

### Post by caravel on 2009-11-30
> **Lyleb said:**
> Better than 2 to 5 hard reboots/day. Either that  or label it "unusable".
You haven't described what it is that happens that forces you to hard reset?

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-30
> **caravel said:**
> Can you not simply select a different login window?
Actually, no. In Karmic it's very difficult to modify the GDM login screen. I rotate the xsplash background using the OMGUbuntu script mentioned above (which makes all the difference to me, since I really hated that default dim spotlight background) and I got rid of the automatic iconized list of users, but actually changing the GDM screen in any significant way (the way that we used to be able to) is not possible at this time afaik.

I think that's a much more serious criticism than "it's ugly". I don't like the default Human theme much either, but I know that I can change it. It seems like this is a temporary state of affairs while this GDM is under development, but removing user choice is not a positive direction in my opinion.

That having been said, although I value the aesthetics of my system I think that whether or not it works well is far more important.

---

### Post by superfrogman94 on 2010-02-19
actually theres ways to customize it its just diffrent than before.

you can use ```
gksudo -u gdm dbus-launch gnome-appearance-properties 
```to change some things about the login screen. and you can also change the xsplash too...

sorry for replying to a almost 3 month old thread but i just had to say that.

i dont think karmics very unstable at all, the only problem i had was a wireless card which dosnt work anymore but i got
ethernet now, other than that its been very smooth for me

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-02-19
"Rebirth flame!"

---

### Post by overdrank on 2010-02-19
On that note, thread closed.

---

