---
title: "11.10 Upgrade absolutely seamless"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Eberbachl on 2011-10-15
I'm posting from my newly installed 11.10 upgrade, which is working flawlessly.

Thanks for a great release!

I'm excited.

:D

---

### Post by CraigGB on 2011-10-15
<snip>
@OP glad you had a good upgrade :)

Mine was all fine other then gnome/unity taking a long time to log in which was due to something in .gnome2, I assume from the upgrade to gnome 3, after 5 minutes I had had it sorted and working though :D, logs in instantly now

---

### Post by Scotsgait on 2011-10-15
I had connection problems on Thursday evening but tried again yesterday and it worked absolutely perfectly.

This was the easiest upgrade I've had. Not a single issue to report. Congratulations to the Ubuntu team.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2011-10-15
> **CraigGB said:**
> ...
@OP glad you had a good upgrade :)
...

Yes, it's fair enough to post when things go well or else a distorted image is presented. (I had posted about having a successful upgrade earlier.)

My understanding is that Ubuntu folks prefer we take the upgrade route and so credible feedback one way or the other should be given.

I have some "feelings" about the process but I'll post them later in a new thread (or in a thread relating to feedback about the update manager and the upgrade process if I find such a thread).

---

### Post by clawz on 2011-10-15
Hi,

I have a question - my upgrade also looked flawless, but I wonder if there is something I should get rid of (uninstall I mean) after this. What about all that gnome stuff that runs in the background. Sorry for the newbe question, but I really like Unity and it seems to me that I no longer need gnomeDM... Am I right?

Regards

Clawz

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-10-15
Moved to Testimonials and Experiences.

---

### Post by d4m1r on 2011-10-16
Great to see a positive upgrade report! I don't see enough of these...But then again, people not having issues usually don't post anything so ;)

---

### Post by TrevP on 2011-10-17
I've used Ubuntu since v 7.04 and I've only ever had one problem with an upgrade (it crashed upgrading from 10.04 to 10.10 - but no problem, I had fully backed up my data before upgrading).

However, I had a weird experience upgrading from 11.04 to 11.10. The upgrade seemed to be going OK until almost the end when I got error messages and a warning that my system would probably be unstable and that a recovery procedure would be started on reboot. I rebooted the computer fully expecting to have to do a full re-install but to my surprise, I got the 11.10 login screen (after some delay)and it booted OK.:confused:

I've spent the last 2 days trying to find a problem but I can't find anything wrong. Everything runs fine and I've had no stability problems. I've checked the Kernel version and it's the correct one, the display settings are fine and all the programs run properly. Maybe I should just relax and enjoy it (I really like the new version)!

---

