---
title: "9.10 Upgrade Fails"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by spuzzdawg on 2009-10-30
I was trying to upgrade my 9.04 Leonovo 3000 C200 to 9.10 and X server appeared to crash early on in the installation. Screen went black like it normally does after a period of inactivity but wouldn't 'wake up' with the mouse or keys. HDD light was flashing like crazy so I assumed that the installation was continuing on without any display. After an hour or so the HDD light stopped flashing but the laptop had not restarted. After remaining in this state for a while it suddenly flashed a "Ubuntu in low graphics mode" error screen listing a bunch of errors in the window. At this point the latop completely crashed leaving an unbootable system. 

Not particularly impressed. 

spuzzdawg

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-10-30
Thanks for the testimonial, and sorry it didn't work. Nothing is perfect.

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-10-30
> **mikewhatever said:**
> Thanks for the testimonial, and sorry it didn't work. Nothing is perfect.

+1.  

@OP:  Good luck, whatever you decide to do.  :)

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2009-10-30
Might I suggest you start a thread in the appropriate help section and request assistance or do a search of the help sections. As it's possible the solution to you problem may already exist.

Should you choose not to seek assistance, good luck with whatever alternative OS you decide on.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-10-30
**[SIZE="7"]Clean install.[/SIZE]**

Do we really need to go through this BS every release?

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2009-10-30
> HappyFeet
Do we really need to go through this BS every release? 	

Apparently, we do. It does help to smile and think upon it as an anecdote. ;)

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-10-30
> **HappyFeet said:**
> **[SIZE="7"]Clean install.[/SIZE]**

Do we really need to go through this BS every release?

+1.

And yes, it seems we do.  Look at it this way:  you can never practice patience until you're in the position to be impatient. Maybe if you can be grateful to those who refuse to do a clean install for giving you an opportunity to practice patience, they won't be quite so annoying. :biggrin:

---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2009-10-30
I used to follow the clean install advice. I think since 8.04 the upgrades have worked fine on most of my units. But heck it is just a computer. If something does not work I just install again. Never taken more than two or three tries to get a working system back on a machine.

---

### Post by Himself2007 on 2009-10-30
Black...solution!

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8199471#post8199471](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8199471#post8199471)

Himself

---

