---
title: "7.10 installed on old compaq presario 2100"
date: 2007-11-27
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by s3c3o3t3t on 2007-11-27
I have install Linux before only to give up when I could not get hardware to work with wrappers on all my drivers. What a surprise when I loaded 7.10 and it automatically ran great! It even found my cheap Dlink airplus DWL-650 wireless pcmcia card, a rare thing for Linux! Then it found all my home networked shared folders on other computers! So i decided to see if it would find my network printer and load a driver that would work- WHAT??? your kidding, it worked!!!!! Now that is how you win over Windows users! I hope to have a good time learning how use this operating system. Nice piece of work.

(Edit added few days later--)

What?? it automatically found the scanner on the HP printer over the network and without any additional software works great!!!

Infomation for others interested- tested on:

Compac presario 2100 Laptop
Dlink Airplus DWL-650 wireless pcmcia card
Linksys wireless G 2.4 router using WEP
HP 2600 all-in-one network printer

All 7.10 preloaded applications seem to work fine.
(love the very complete battery information!! why doesnt Windows give that kind of info?)
Loaded Wine - works fine without any configuration so far.

Will keep adding to this post as new information comes up.

---

### Post by thumbmaster021 on 2008-01-05
It's great you are having a good experience with Linux.  I too am runing Ubuntu 7.10 on a Presario 2100, and while performance is great, and have all the neat things like windows file shares and 3D acceleration out of box, do you experiance long (like 3 min+) boot times? 
 Thanks!

---

### Post by rubbersoul.josh on 2008-01-10
Another Presario 2100 user here too.  I just got my system running today.  I had some problems with the video driver, so I'm currently running with the vesa driver instead of the ati.  seems to be working fine.  the computer runs faster than it ever has (used to run windows).   i'm looking forward to getting to know this os.  

i haven't been lucky with my wireless driver yet.  but like i said i just got it running today my card is a DLink DWA-642.  

@thumbmaster021 I have not noticed any lags in bootup.  actually it boots faster than it used to with windows.  even when new.

---

### Post by seanie93 on 2008-07-28
Hey 
 
I just got given a Compaq Presario 2100 and i duel booted with Ubuntu. Ubuntu will not pick up and networks on my built in wireless  but it is in XP 

Cheers

---

### Post by armandh on 2008-07-28
another hardware lottery winner
all the numbers match.

the old, the unusual, and the very new are often trouble
and it is usually just a short wait for the very new
save those who don't support Linux at all.

---

