---
title: "10.04- smooth ride"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by lancest on 2010-05-01
I'm enjoying the great looking and integrated desktop of 10.04. 

 Ambiance theme, 
Ubuntu One music, 
Personal files sync
Tomboy notes "
and Evolution "


Always Discovering new things:
Easy Evolution/Gmail integration for contacts
Dvd:rip is a gem for ripping Blueray.

Many others

By the way if you aren't getting album art in Rhythmbox just enable the Last FM plugin. Hope that's a permanent deal. :)

---

### Post by Elegia on 2010-05-01
I've just installed it today and I absolutely love it as well. The installation went flawless. All I had to do was plug in a network cable so it could detect my video and wireless drivers. After that, everything just worked out of the box. And I absolutely love the new theme and the nice integration with Gnome. :P

My sincere thanks to the development team for doing such a great job.

---

### Post by gabo.cr on 2010-05-01
> I've just installed it today and I absolutely love it as well. The installation went flawless. All I had to do was plug in a network cable so it could detect my video and wireless drivers. After that, everything just worked out of the box. And I absolutely love the new theme and the nice integration with Gnome.

My sincere thanks to the development team for doing such a great job.

My words exactly.
:lolflag:

---

### Post by John Bean on 2010-05-01
> **Elegia said:**
> All I had to do was plug in a network cable so it could detect my video and wireless drivers.

Yes, a minor irritation to those who have access (and the knowledge) to make a wired connection to make the wi-fi work, but it's the sort of thing that can trip up a novice and gets Linux in general a bad reputation with the PC masses. So simple to avoid in the first place with a bit of pragmatism instead of the usual OSS dogma.

But minor rant aside, it's a good distribution and works well.

---

### Post by gkh73 on 2010-05-01
I took the "upgrade" route from 9.10, and everything went smoothly for me.  All of my previous settings were saved.  I switched over to the Ambiance theme to get the aesthetic feel for Lucid.  Love it! 

I'm still getting used to the window buttons being on the left side of the box as opposed to the right, but I don't mind that.

One thing I have to figure out is I'm getting a password prompt from some application that loads on start-up... don't know which one though.  

Overall very pleased!

Great job Team Ubuntu!  :)

---

### Post by lancest on 2010-05-01
> **Elegia said:**
> . All I had to do was plug in a network cable so it could detect my video and wireless drivers. 
.

:) Happy!

Just to point out for the benefit of other users.

[ 1. ie need to download WIFI drivers and video codecs. ]

In many cases this is not necessary to get WIFI going with Ubuntu.  Live CD has most drivers and will pick up WIFI. 

BTW Video codecs aren't legally available OFTB. 

Often much simpler than dealing with same issue on Windows. 

Couldn't be any easier really. 

Thanks to developers for making Ubuntu such a breeze. 

It's all about the total Ubuntu experience.

---

### Post by murderslastcrow on 2010-05-01
Yeah, if Broadcom cards could have a driver in the kernel, that'd solve the most noticeable issue people run into. Seriously, this is no different from installing Windows from scratch. Don't be a wuss, or buy a computer with Ubuntu on it already.

I really think they pulled off a 9 or a 10 with this release. Most people, media outlets, and businesses seem to really like it, with no audible complaints. :3 Let's hope Gnome 3 and Canonical are compatible. XD

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-05-01
Dvd:Rip does Bluray? Are you sure about that?

---

### Post by lancest on 2010-05-01
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Dvd:Rip does Bluray? Are you sure about that?

Yes! Done it with several. I'm not an expert. 
PM me if you want details for comparison purposes.

---

### Post by John Bean on 2010-05-02
> **murderslastcrow said:**
> Yeah, if Broadcom cards could have a driver in the kernel, that'd solve the most noticeable issue people run into.

Doesn't have to be in the kernel - which I agree should remain pure OSS - but there's no reason the Broadcom driver couldn't be on the installation medium since it's a very common requirement. Once the WAN is up all the other restricted bits can be downloaded; I have no problem with their omission.

There's still far too much elitist macho-geek attitude in the Desktop Linux community and it's a big turn-off to many potential users. It's almost as though some people don't want it to work out of the box; perhaps they enjoy their perceived superiority when they effortlessly overcome the obstacles it puts in their way as the "lusers" flounder. 

Personally I'd rather it "just worked" in the first place instead of wasting my time having to fix it. Lucid comes very close, which is why it's a shame it doesn't go that extra few yards for the large minority of users who need restricted wireless drivers.

---

### Post by lancest on 2010-05-02
> **John Bean said:**
> 
There's still far too much elitist macho-geek attitude in the Desktop Linux community and it's a big turn-off to many potential users. 

Maybe so. But I also believe the public has become  a little dumbed as far as doing things "hands on". 
Goes both directions. The term geek is often used as a bit of an insult.

---

