---
title: "9.10:Better for new users, worse for linux intermediates?"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Jestersage on 2009-11-01
Even though I only used Karmic for the last 6 hours, I feel that Karmic is starting to be not designed for people who want absolute controls. However, if I want to install Ubuntu for beginners that just want to do basic stuff (web browsing/office/gaming), then it's probably way better than 9.04.

Reasoning is this:
1) Ubuntu Software center: Instead of selecting all softwares, then add, then wait if you want to add more, the USC allow one to add, install, add, until the cows come home. For users who are used to do many things at once, this would makes it seems "better"
2) xsplash: Quote my coworker (who is testing karmic as a test bed, as my workplace sell Ubuntu-equiped computers), "Feels like a mac". If Ubuntu allow passwordless login, it is like Mac on steroids (considering Mac have LESS free software!) Also fast boot up (clean install)
3) Less brown, more Orange: Enough said. Brown is depressing. orange is bright.

However, I feel that i have less control:
1) The Login screen cannot be customized/changed as of now. Also, due to elimination of teh customization, it does not allow root to login through GUI (I may need more explorations) – good for beginners, bad for some other people, even if it's a bad practice overall.
2) In general, I feel that aside from login, I can customize less through the GUI.

All in all, though, Karmic does seems to be better, though I do wish the 8.04 shutdown screen can come back.

---

### Post by kestal on 2009-11-01
Ubuntu allowed passwordless login prior to Karmic. You just probably didn't notice it in the original installation.

Brown to Orange -> Good. How is this a reasoning for being non-intermediate friendly? Are you saying that Intermediates prefer to be depressed?

Less Control? Search the forums for ways to customize the GDM in 9.10. They exist. I've done so. Not only that but I customized the xsplash as well to suit my needs so I do not look at a stretched out image for my background which looks pixelated.

I have the same amount of control in this version as the last. Yes, Ubuntu Software Center is new and it tries to simplify things, but that does not mean that you have less control over your desktop. You can still use the same methods you used before, that hasn't changed.

So, with each of your current arguments, I fail to see how it is worse for linux intermediates, based on those said arguments. :)

---

### Post by Eagles18 on 2009-11-01
I,too,dislike the Software Center.
"Mac on steroids" LOL

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-11-01
Fortunately the Software Centre isn't our only choice, Synaptic is still around and we can still install from the command line.

I find Karmic is just as customiazble as any previous release.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-01
The bottom line is, you either get it or you don't.

Why are we sugar coating this?

---

### Post by 1roxtar on 2009-11-01
Gawwwwwd.  I'm so tired of Linux "geeks" crying so much about Ubuntu becoming so user-friendly. That is their GOAL!!!!  If you want to keep jacking around and bashing this and compiling that, sudo there and X whatever, go play with Slackware or whatever else is out there.  

I just got into Linux this year and thank goodness Ubuntu was my intro into this awesome experience.  Since then, I have tried numerous other distros and hands-down Ubuntu has been the best.  I'm  no computer novice, even though new to Linux, but thanks to the Community I have learned a lot.  The main thing that I hate so much is people putting down Ubuntu so freakin' much. Just because Linux is synonymous with freedom, doesn't mean it has to remain an underground cult program.  

I think the Tux penguin should be replaced with a CRAB because instead of being happy that a Linux OS is getting popular and getting known in the mainstream, like crabs in a bucket that when one tries to climb up and get out another crab pulls it back down.  Trying to become mainstream doesn't mean Ubuntu will become as evil as Microsoft or as stingy as Mac.  But that's just my rant.

---

### Post by collinp on 2009-11-01
The thing is, everything in Ubuntu can be customized or removed. That's the beauty of Linux. If Ubuntu ever changes that, I don't want to be a part of it.

Yes, they added some more features for the less experienced user. It's not stopping you from doing what you did previously - the command line is still there.

You can still compile programs, edit source code, program, or do anything you want with Ubuntu. It's still Linux.

---

### Post by 1roxtar on 2009-11-01
> **Hellow said:**
> It's still Linux.

Damn str8...IT'S STILL LINUX!!!

---

### Post by jdrodrig on 2009-11-01
> **Jestersage said:**
>  if I want to install Ubuntu for beginners that just want to do basic stuff (web browsing/office/gaming), then it's probably way better than 9.04.


For better or for worse, we need mass appeal to attract the masses and with them, developers that can keep porting to linux what otherwise is only available in other platforms...

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-11-02
> **1roxtar said:**
> Gawwwwwd.  I'm so tired of Linux "geeks" crying so much about Ubuntu becoming so user-friendly. That is their GOAL!!!!
And it's made absolutely stellar progress on that front in the last few years. The more user friendly it is the more people will make the jump from Windows. :)

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-11-02
> **HappyFeet said:**
> The bottom line is, you either get it or you don't.

Why are we sugar coating this?

It generates posts. It's amusing.  It passes the time.  

What other reason do you need?  :P

---

### Post by Glucklich on 2009-11-02
Drifting away a bit from the OP's motifs when opening this thread... I think that Ubuntu is supposed to get better for beginners. You know, in a "ready out of the box" way. In that aspect, if it is better for beginners, that's a good sign. For intermediates and advanced users, there are plenty of distros out there. And as cariboo said, you can still modify this one as you please. The repos are excellent as always.

---

### Post by wbee on 2009-11-02
Hello,

I have taken some ribbing from friends who tell me I should go to Fedora because Ubuntu is "Linux With Training Wheels".

They are happy with Fedora;I'm happy with Ubuntu.

It's Win/Win

------------

---

### Post by lancest on 2009-11-02
> **wbee said:**
> Hello,

I have taken some ribbing from friends who tell me I should go to Fedora because Ubuntu is "Linux With Training Wheels".

They are happy with Fedora;I'm happy with Ubuntu.

It's Win/Win

------------

It depends on the angle that you view it from. I'm sure there are alot more experienced Linux users on Ubuntu than Fedora though.

---

### Post by Glucklich on 2009-11-02
> **wbee said:**
> I have taken some ribbing from friends who tell me I should go to Fedora because Ubuntu is "Linux With Training Wheels".

They are happy with Fedora;I'm happy with Ubuntu.

It's Win/Win

That's it. You should use whatever you feel comfortable with ;)

---

### Post by mdsmedia on 2009-11-02
> **Glucklich said:**
> Drifting away a bit from the OP's motifs when opening this thread... I think that Ubuntu is supposed to get better for beginners. You know, in a "ready out of the box" way. In that aspect, if it is better for beginners, that's a good sign. For intermediates and advanced users, there are plenty of distros out there. And as cariboo said, you can still modify this one as you please. The repos are excellent as always.
Agreed.

In general, you can still do anything with Ubuntu that you can do with any of the other distros. Of course there are exceptions, but they were there before Karmic, and are very limited. 

What's wrong with the USC?? It's available if you want to use it. As many have said, Apt is still available as is Synaptic. The CLI still exists, most of the GUI options still exist. So there's something new available for new users, and others who are quickly looking for an app. Oops!!

---

### Post by ronzo on 2009-11-04
-

---

### Post by Tibuda on 2009-11-04
> **Jestersage said:**
> 1) Ubuntu Software center: Instead of selecting all softwares, then add, then wait if you want to add more, the USC allow one to add, install, add, until the cows come home. For users who are used to do many things at once, this would makes it seems "better"
No. USC is better if you "do many things at once". In USC, you don't have to wait for a package to be installed to add another package to the queue. In the old add/remove you select a bunch of packages, and then apply then, and if you wish to add a new package, then you have to wait or cancel.

> 2) xsplash: Quote my coworker (who is testing karmic as a test bed, as my workplace sell Ubuntu-equiped computers), "Feels like a mac". If Ubuntu allow passwordless login, it is like Mac on steroids (considering Mac have LESS free software!) Also fast boot up (clean install)
Ubuntu allows passwordless login.
> 3) Less brown, more Orange: Enough said. Brown is depressing. orange is bright.huh?

> 1) The Login screen cannot be customized/changed as of now. Also, due to elimination of teh customization, it does not allow root to login through GUI (I may need more explorations) &#8211; good for beginners, bad for some other people, even if it's a bad practice overall.This is because the login manager was rewritten from scratch and there's no GUI yet to customize it. It is possible to customize it if you mess with the gdm user gconf.

> 2) In general, I feel that aside from login, I can customize less through the GUI.
What else would you like to customize that you can't?

---

