---
title: "T60"
date: 2007-06-05
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Chayak on 2007-06-05
Well first off I have to use windows day to day in my work for administration.  I have Ubuntu and OS X machines at home and the only reason I have a windows machine at home is games.  I use my laptop a lot a work so it of course has windows.  It's a Vista install and I'm required to use bitlocker drive encryption by policy, nothing I can do about it.

I've been having trouble recently with my wireless.  There are times it just losses connection and I have to do a bit of tinkering to get it back up.  I'm currently in the middle of one of those episodes with Vista and on a whim I grabbed my Ubuntu disk and rebooted my T60 into it.  Well I'm typing this from the Live CD environment and I connected up to my wireless without the least bit of problem.  It makes me wish I could just install Ubuntu on it, and I probably would if not for all the pain of reconfiguring a very picky bitlocker.  I never game with this laptop and eventually I'm probably going to convert it over.file:///usr/share/ubuntu-artwork/home/index.html

Something else to note that running off of the live CD my system is only running at 185.8MB (with everything in memory including installing a few firefox plugins) of used memory from 2GB as opposed to vista idling around a gig of memory.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2007-06-05
isnt it great how little resources it uses? also, did you ever notice the hard drive activity light? it seems to almost never light up unless i'm reading or writing to the drive. xp's drive was ALWAYS doing something. peace!

---

### Post by Chayak on 2007-06-06
I did get to see my first Vista bluescreen last night while I was trying to fix my wireless connection.

---

