---
title: "12.04 LTS Garbageware - Killed NTFS drive?"
date: 2012-11-01
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by OrionXIII on 2012-11-01
To say I'm rather unimpressed with 12.04 (12.10, etc) would be an understatement. I'm a huge Ubuntu fan, but this version makes Windows look good. It decided to lock up during an insanely difficult operation...copying files.

In the process of crashing, it apparently destroyed my one NTFS device (that I use for a network share, except, apparently, 12.04 doesn't share with anything as nothing I have from Windows to Ubuntu 10.04.4 LTS will mount the shared directory)...Now when I attempt to mount that device I get:
"Error mounting: mount exited with exit code 13:$MTFMirr does not match $MFT (record 0).
Failed to mount '/dev/sda6': Input/output error NTFS is either inconsistent, or there is a hardware fault, or it's a SoftRAID/FakeRAID hardware' - it's none of the above.

Ubuntu just thrashed it.

is there any way to recover it? The instructions they give involve yanking my hard drive out of the case and somehow mounting it on a Windows machine and running various Windows tools on it. This has got all of my photos from my deployment to Iraq, my software development code and many other invaluable items. Of course, since I'm just finishing up a complete rebuild, I had JUST decided all was well and got rid of my source files to free up space.

Orion

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-11-01
[I]Thread moved to Ubuntu [B]Testimonials & Experiences

[/B][/I]***Reason: **The thread you have posted does not clearly or **specificly **outline any problem with much information **and as it mostly relates your bad experiences it belongs here rather than *[I]in **General Help.**

[/I]*Please post a thread with a descriptive title and outline your specific install problems as clearly and with as much info as you can in ***Installations & Upgrades,**[I] perhaps after a few deep breaths. ;)

**A heads up: **OS bashing of [/I]**_ANY OS_** [I]will not be tolerated on the forums. This behaviour will attract warnings and infractions. Please see the Code of Conduct for more information. I understand it can be frustrating at times but avoid taking it out in the forums. 

Good luck with solving your issues. Post a link to any new thread here if you like. 

BB


[/I]

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-11-01
> **OrionXIII said:**
> is there any way to recover it? The instructions they give involve yanking my hard drive out of the case and somehow mounting it on a Windows machine and running various Windows tools on it. This has got all of my photos from my deployment to Iraq, my software development code and many other invaluable items. Of course, since I'm just finishing up a complete rebuild, I had JUST decided all was well and got rid of my source files to free up space.

Orion

In my experience, Windows filesystem utilities have been best at recovering data from former Windows partitions; Linux filesystem utilities have been best at recovering data from former Linux partitions. Your best bet at recovering data in a useful form from the Windows filesystem is to do as indicated below ...

Since your data was on a Windows partition, based on my experience at doing this successfully, my suggestions are the following:
[NOTE: If your PC has a working copy of MS Windows on it, skip to step 4]
1) Find someone with a working MS Windows PC
2) Remove your drive from this PC.
3) Connect your old drive to the MS Windows PC.
4) Download and install the trial version of RecoverMyFiles from Runtime Software in MS Windows.
5) Right-click the RecoverMyFiles shortcut and select "Run as Administrator"
6) Select the option to Recover a Drive
7) You will get a list of drive, scroll down to find the one for your USB stick or memory card
8) Select Automatic Driver recovery, press Start button
9) It will run for a while but when done, will show a directory tree in the left pane. Do NOT interrupt it.
10) When done, browse the folders in the directory tree -- and be SURE to check the filesizes of the files you want to recover.  If the filesize is zero, the file is trashed and you will NOT be able to recover it.

If the files look OK, you will need to contact Runtime Software to purchase a license for the recovery. You won't have to reinstall the app; instead, they will email you an activation code which you can use to turn on the recovery feature.

According to their website, the "standard" version of the app is $70 USD.  They also have a Pro version for $99 dollars, but if you go to the website below, you can compare the features and (at least for me) the extra cost wasn't worth it:

[http://www.recovermyfiles.com/data-recovery-software-purchase.php](http://www.recovermyfiles.com/data-recovery-software-purchase.php)

Your data ... your money ... your choice.

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2012-11-01
i have also used pandora recovery in the past very successfully

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2012-11-01
Find your Windows System Repair disc and use it to run chkdsk on the partition.

When it's done, go buy an external drive and start making backups, now you know why everyone says to keep good backups of your invaluable data.

---

### Post by viperdvman on 2012-11-01
If by any chance chkdsk deletes all the index files (what points to your files on your hard drive)... then you'll need to do a data recovery.

While "RecoverMyFiles" is a good data recovery app to use... also check out Recuva. It comes in both free versions and paid pro versions. I used the free version the last time my data hard drive's file system corrupted, and I was able to recover 97% of everything that I had intended to recover. Just remember that you may have to manually filter some extensions not covered under Videos or Pictures or Documents and such (i.e. .mkv, .ogm, .psd, etc)

The problem is more with the NTFS file system rather than Ubuntu. The whole thing can go fubar if the MFT is written wrong or written on a bad sector. I've had the same thing happen in Windows after a defragment session. Although defragging an NTFS volume isn't dangerous... it does carry that 0.001% (estimated) chance of messing something up, like the MFT space.

Try to mount it in Windows... but **do not** let it do a chkdsk on startup since you have no control over what it's doing, and finding the logs from it is a real pain. Instead, skip the bootup chkdsk and perform the chkdsk *(**without **automatic repair)* once you're booted into Windows. That will at least identify the problems you have and possibly give you a chance to back up the valuable data before doing a full autorepair chkdsk.

Like I said, problem wasn't with Ubuntu... it was with the NTFS file system, or possibly a bad sector in your MFT space. Hope everything works out for you.

---

### Post by PPN13 on 2012-11-01
I 'd like to add that if that network share is on a linux only machine then it doesn't have to be NTFS (for which linux has limited corrective tools). 

  Windows (and Mac) can get files quite easily from an ext4 partition shared in the network by a linux box since they don't actually even 'see' the real filesystem themselves. So you should use the fs which is more combatible with the os in the physical host (ubuntu and ext4)

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-11-02
*Thread **closed**.*

This area isn't for support.


404

---

