---
title: "About 50/50"
date: 2010-09-19
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by aspiredfang on 2010-09-19
Hello,

I've been using Xubuntu Linux for about a year and a half now, on the whole with a great experience. Having spent 12 years around Windows and never touching Linux unless in specific circumstances, it truly blew me away just how "neat" an experience using Linux is.

Other than some initial teething troubles with 3D cards, everything worked with a superb swiftness I have never looked back at. As a web developer and mild games player, it felt almost a privilege to live life bug free.

However, since making the upgrade to version +10, my opinion has been slipping downhill. Whether, it's because my own knowledge of Linux increases every day and now I'm paying more attention, things seem a bit...rushed. 

Now, when I say rushed, it is in context of canonical trying to pile Ubuntu full of features (which is great) without so much perspective on reliability. When first using Ubuntu, I would update once a week and that would be about 30 packages on average, now it's almost twice that, and not just because I use more software; I use less. One of these updates invariably breaks something on the system and instead of a mild Sunday, it's a Sunday spent trying to fix problems so the week can be reliable.

Many will say, if it ain't broke, don't fix it. Fair enough to that but, when two kernel releases are made in one day and the news-boards are in a state of strife due to a critical bug/leak, I'll update.

I'm going to try out another distribution now but just want to express my thanks to all those who have contributed to Ubuntu in any shape or flavour, AMAZING WORK and thanks to such work, I am now 100% *nix! Please, slow down a bit though in terms of releasing updates in favour of efficiency/testing vs features.

I foresee other distributions having a tough time of possessing such a great "all round" experience as the one right here

Peace and kind regards

P.S - This forum has been a true heaven send and help, much love :D

---

### Post by darrenn on 2010-09-19
Yeah if I was having your problems I would stick with the old lts. I am quite positive that if you were using 8.04 you wouldn't be having these problems. I never upgrade I always do a clean install because as you said it causes problems.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2010-09-20
Pure Ubuntu is great if you like Gnome. Xubuntu and Kubuntu don't work as well. Xubuntu has way too much Gnome in it and there were always subtitle incompatibilities (like having to install nautilus to mount/unmount external drives). Even though Gnome is the defualt Fedora DE, the XFCE spin works better than Xubuntu.

---

