---
title: "10.04 I think I love you..."
date: 2010-07-07
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Christian Knudsen on 2010-07-07
I've been using 8.04 of a loooong time. I was very pleased with it, but lately it had become somewhat sluggish, so I decided to finally take the plunge and upgrade to 10.04.

I was dual booting with XP, so I first had to free up the Linux partition in order to install 10.04 from scratch. Everything went smooth and the experience has been pretty smooth so far (installed 10.04) yesterday.

There were a few annoyances: I like the Ambiance theme, but moved the window buttons back to the left and had to do some searching to figure out how to center the window title. And it took a bit of searching to figure out how to remove the messenger icon and the "Me Menu" from the indicator applets, but with those changes, I'm now extremely pleased with my updated Ubuntu install. I was a bit skeptical of the new theme, but it's really grown on me and I'm not planning on changing anything.

My wireless card also works out of the box now -- my card wasn't supported in 8.04, so I'd just settled for using a cable, since I don't move my laptop around much, but it's definitely nice to be able to pack up the cable and use my wireless instead. It also seems faster than my 8.04 install, which like I said had become somewhat sluggish. I think 10.04 may even be faster than 8.04: I do a lot of image editing in GIMP and usually have about 20 images open at the same time. In 8.04 it took way too long to open these images for some reason, but it's lightning fast in 10.04 (something to do with ext4?).

I was a bit reluctant to upgrade to 10.04, which is why it's taken me so long to finally do it, but holy s*** am I glad I did. I just fell in love with Ubuntu all over again. I still use XP at least 50% of the time, but upgrading to 10.04 just (re)reminded me that *this* is what an operating system should be. Oh, and it's free! The only thing that keeps me hooked on XP is the programs that still only work in XP and my net banking not being supported in Ubuntu, but these are all forces outside Ubuntu's control. If everything that was supported in Windows was supported in Ubuntu, there's no doubt that I'd switch 100%. If the choice was between Windows 7, Mac OS X and Ubuntu, I'd choose Ubuntu. And not because of some devotion to FOSS (that's only the icing on the cake), but simply because I prefer it as an OS. I really feel that Linux/Ubuntu itself has done what it can to create the optimal operating system -- now it's just a question of the rest of the world catching on.


EDIT: Oh, and in 8.04 there was something strange with sound output, that meant that if my headphones were plugged in when booting up, the sound would come out of the laptop speakers as if the headphones weren't plugged in. I'd have to unplug and plug the headphones back in for the OS to "acknowledge" the headphones. No longer an issue in 10.04.

ANOTHER EDIT: I completely forgot to mention what was one of the main reasons for me writing this at all. I'm just also amazed by upgrading to a new version of an operating system two years later on the same machine and find that it's *faster* than the old operating system, while still being better looking and more feature rich. I can't think of any other operating systems where this happens. You *always* seem to have to upgrade your machine with all other operating systems.

---

