---
title: "I. Hate. Unity."
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by ErroneousBosch on 2011-04-29
I get Unity. I get where it is going and I get why it was made. I can even see how it would be good for limited desktop space or especially on a tablet. The 3d accel is nice and zippy, and it looks pretty. That being said...

I <snip> HATE IT ON DESKTOP. 

It essentially takes everything I hate on the MacOS/iOS, ramps it up to extreme and then dumps it out into my desktop. No nice separate menus to find things, buried system settings, reduced out of box customizability and control, Add onto this it's refusal to work until you install restricted drivers on many machines, which pretty much KILLS the new user experience. (You couldn't have just included restricted drivers off the bat?)

I am SO glad they include Gnome (just wish it was gnome 3) out of the box. Seriously Canonical, THIS is where you think Linux GUIs should go on the desktop? This is pretty awful for a mouse interface IMHO.

</rant>

Perhaps instead of a default, maybe offer people in Installation which desktop they would like? Or make a split like Kubuntu

---

### Post by ivanovnegro on 2011-04-29
Im sorry for your experience, I also dislike Unity but ranting this way wont help you.
Try Gnome Classic session or just switch to something else, maybe KDE, its very customizable and more traditional, in fact you can do what you want with it and thats why I like it.
In the worst case just switch the distro, no reason to whine, Canonical made the decision, you are free to move away, even if it hurts, thats why we use Linux, choice. ;)

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-04-29
- Separate menus are available if you right-click on the menu applet on the dock.
- Customizations are just the same as in 10.10, it is the same Gnome after all. Unity is plugin for compiz, so the Unity specific settings are in CCSM. The rest is standard Gnome2.
- The system could use more customizations, but don't forget that this is only the first iteration, features will be added int he future.
- Gnome 3 will be included in 11.10

- Unfortunately the proprietary drivers come with legal restrictions and in many cases it is not possible for Canonical to include them by default. This is entirely Nvidia and ATI fault. 
- 11.10 will come with Unity 2D, which is a Unity implementation that does not require proprietary drivers.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-04-29
as i see Gnome shell looks a lot like unity. from the screenshots i mean....

[http://live.gnome.org/GnomeShell](http://live.gnome.org/GnomeShell)

---

### Post by ErroneousBosch on 2011-04-29
Thank you for being understanding guys. I was just venting a bit in frustration. I will be giving Unity a fair run. It just initially made me very unhappy. I couldn't find things easily and it was working the way I am used to GUIs working.  I didn't mean to come off as a crazy gnome fanboy. 

Working in a Support role as I do, I get a lot of GUIs thrown at me, and so I admit it can be a little frustrating when I can't make a new one work for me. I do think Unity has a less customizable feel than Gnome (no panels or widgets that I can find for instance), especially out of the box. 

Again, thanks for putting up with my frustration rant and responding helpfully and kindly despite my asinine attitude. It is as I have always come to expect from the Ubuntu Community.

---

### Post by el_koraco on 2011-04-29
[http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity]("http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity")

---

### Post by FootySr on 2011-04-29
> **ErroneousBosch said:**
> Thank you for being understanding guys. I was just venting a bit in frustration. I will be giving Unity a fair run. It just initially made me very unhappy. I couldn't find things easily and it was working the way I am used to GUIs working.  I didn't mean to come off as a crazy gnome fanboy. 

Working in a Support role as I do, I get a lot of GUIs thrown at me, and so I admit it can be a little frustrating when I can't make a new one work for me. I do think Unity has a less customizable feel than Gnome (no panels or widgets that I can find for instance), especially out of the box. 

Again, thanks for putting up with my frustration rant and responding helpfully and kindly despite my asinine attitude. It is as I have always come to expect from the Ubuntu Community.
That's the spirit!  :)

When I installed the beta 1 a month or so back it scared the heck out of me but after a few hours I was loving it. ;)

---

### Post by rjlaing on 2011-09-04
I agree. I avoided it until I found a deal on a remaindered Acer. Then I tried. Let's put t this way - if I wanted a Mac, I would have bought a Mac. Instead, I have erased Ubuntu/Unity and decided to go Arch. That may may seem like more work, but it is now. I have LTS Lucid on this machine and I am happy with it; things are where they are without guessing. Good luck with the next LTS in '12. I won't be doing it except on a throw-away machine, just for giggles..

---

### Post by walt.smith1960 on 2011-09-04
It seems like Gnome 3 shell is going to be more customizable/be a tinkerer's delight.  The shell has a framework for extension though there aren't many extensions around yet.  
Working in a Support role as I do, I get a lot of GUIs thrown at me

I sort of thought this was the reason Canonical is making it more difficult to change Unity.  If a new user is seeking phone support,  it would seem easier for the support person to be certain the user's desktop is the default, not a gadgeted-up "I have no idea what this guy is looking at" interface. Perhaps the thinking is that if they make it difficult and the user still figures it out, that user knows enough be able to figure out problems for themselves.

---

### Post by FormatSeize on 2011-09-04
What's so bad about it?
I simply *still* cannot understand why people hate (or love) Unity. Hopefully I can understand soon. I'm pretty sure that my indifference toward Unity is getting old.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2011-09-04
Back to sleep thread. Thread closed :)

---

