---
title: "7.10 a bit less stable then 7.04?"
date: 2007-11-29
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by themerchant on 2007-11-29
I gotta say, I love 7.10, all its new features, Ubuntu seems damn near perfect, but theres one thing I gotta rant about. My 7.10 seems to be less stable then 7.04, anyone else getting this? 7.04 was probably the most stable version of ubuntu I've used.

---

### Post by rfruth on 2007-11-29
No problem(s) with 7.10 here, almost looking forward to the next ver (that comfortzone thing all over again)

---

### Post by themerchant on 2007-11-29
Yah, Hardy Heron will be great. Can't wait for a beta.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-11-29
Gutsy has locked up on me once while doing several things.  Had to do a hard reboot.  Music that I was listening to went into a loop and keyboard and mouse became unresponsive.  It could have been a hardware glitch, although it never happened under Dapper or Suse (which I have used on this machine previously for the past 2 years.)

I've got 190 days uptime on one of my Dapper machines.  That's serious uptime for a desktop/server.

[http://wofmusic.homelinux.org:9000/stats](http://wofmusic.homelinux.org:9000/stats)

I haven't spent enough time with Gutsy to form an opinion yet.  Lockups are not cool.

---

### Post by themerchant on 2007-11-29
Only really annoying glitch I've gotten is from firefox.

---

### Post by hardyn on 2007-11-30
it is entirely possible, they did add ALOT to gutsy.  But it is relative, they are both pretty stable.

---

### Post by championboxes on 2007-11-30
With gusty almost everything works better for me except of graphics... i mean now my bluetooth is actually working... with fiesty my graphics seemed to move smoother... and i have to use ndiswrapper for my wireless... but with fiesty my connection said bout 40 to 50% in gusty it says like 20!!! but im still downloading at full speed... i have also had gusty freeze on me where everything just locks up... to me i think fiesty (7.04) worked better... but with gusty (7.10) more of it works... but less stable...  btw i <3 ubuntu!

---

### Post by kylekeeton on 2007-11-30
I agree I have seen the stability issue. I wish that I had not upgraded! 

With 7.10, I have the screen freeze once a day min. With 7.04 never had a screen freeze. Firefox seems to be involved somewhat. I have switched to Iceape and the browser freezing has stopped. (in all cases I have to reboot)

I see allot of these comments on this site. Issues with 7.10. Maybe someone could let us know if anything is being done about the freezing issue.

I use both Ubuntu on one computer and Xubuntu on another. Same problem on both!!!!!!

All in all still an aw sum  operating system, just that you get use to the stability and then update and have problems. 

Kyle

---

### Post by championboxes on 2007-11-30
I somewhat agree with firefox being the problem... it seems that every time my computer freezes i am doing something in firefox... maybe ill try seamonkey or something else... do you have an nvidia card too? b/c it seems that everybody that has this problem has a nvidia card...

---

### Post by MNICY on 2007-12-01
NO problems AT ALL with 7.10.

Maybe its just because im using 64 bit?

I dont know, but from what i read it seems to me that:
7.04 32 is more stable then 7.10 32
but
7.10 64 is more stable then 7.04

What do you think?
is this possible?

---

### Post by kylekeeton on 2007-12-01
I Have Nvidia also. I agree that it seems to be somewhat of a stability problem with nvidia drivers. :(

I also find that it runs much more stable if I shut it down before bed and reboot in morning, that it stays more stable. Should not have to do that. :(

Kyle

---

### Post by ev5unleash1 on 2007-12-01
Yeah, the early 7.04 around release had some sound problems with me. I'm using a Realtek HD Audio Output. Then I had a couple updates and they worked fine. Now, I did a clean install of Gutsy and when I log in I have to eject the CD/DVD Drive so I can see the icons. I hear very soft sound, and it feels less stable to me.

---

### Post by erginemr on 2007-12-01
I also have NVidia and have some stability problems and graphical glitches sometimes.

But, all in all, I liked Gutsy much better than Feisty in terms of performance and of course graphical eye candy. I think a good share of the stability problems originate from Compiz Fusion which is still actively developed and not yet stabilized. This is kind of a trade-off in return to all this eye candy.

---

### Post by MNICY on 2007-12-01
yeah. you have to remember that
unstable programs  = unstable OS :lolflag:

---

### Post by armandh on 2007-12-02
I've managed to screw both of them up to the point of reloading. 
I seemed to get there quicker with 7.10
when one has ALL the controls; expect things to be, on occasion, out of control.

---

### Post by azimuth on 2007-12-02
> **armandh said:**
> when one has ALL the controls; expect things to be, on occasion, out of control.

That has to be as profound as anything I've seen on these forums.

---

### Post by dan171717 on 2007-12-03
7.10 is allot more stable than 7.04 (which in my case was crap) i was using dapper until resantly beacause feisty was soo break prone that it was unusable but gutsy runs perfectly

---

### Post by RawMustard on 2007-12-03
Feisty 64 bit is much, much more stable for me than gutsy.  The 32 bit versions of Feisty I think were a bit better than Gutsy, the new print thingy is borked for me as is the graphics layer that handles restricted drivers such as nVidia.

Also Compiz is a joke if you ask me, it should not have been included as a default package IMHO.  I mean it looks nice and is coming along nicely, but it was too early to incorporate it like they did.

---

### Post by getaceres on 2007-12-03
For me Gutsy is the worst release ever. I've been using Ubuntu since the 4.10 release and I've found Gutsy to be the most bugged system to date (even more than Edgy).

1: There's a bug in the Live CD in Compiz that hangs when it starts. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/fedora/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/108527](https://bugs.launchpad.net/fedora/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/108527) and  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/108527](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/108527)
To install Ubuntu on my Desktop PC (Radeon 9700) I have to use the Alternate CD and then change the graphic driver before the first boot in Gnome.

2: Burning CDs (or DVDs) fails a lot of times. Tried with Both, Brasero and K3B usign the "Verify" option in both. This worked in Feisty but the verification fails all the times in Gutsy and the written CD sometimes work, sometimes don't.

3: When using Bittorrent for long periods (some hours), I get a system freeze and I have to reset. Tried with Azureus and Deluge.

4. Encfs works in a strange way. Mounting over a non empty user folder sometimes it looses files and configurations. It didn't happen in Feisty.

5. On my laptop I cannot mount the Sony Memory Stick drive. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.22/+bug/159951](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.22/+bug/159951).
Also Compiz has all sort of glitches not seen before in Feisty (in Beryl and old Compiz), Gnome takes a lot more time to start, sometimes it can't start the preferences so I loose the theme and I have to restart, etc.

Some of the problems are in non-official packages, I know, but most of them (except for the MemoryStick issue that I didn't check in Feisty) were working in Feisty and now are broken in Gutsy. So for me, Yes, Gutsy is a lot more unstable than Feisty.

---

### Post by lian1238 on 2007-12-03
I had the freezing problem before, but not anymore. It happened mostly with Firefox and I use nvidia.

The solution is to turn off cpu scaling (powernowd).
```
sudo /etc/init.d/powernowd stop
```
Or go to System>Administration>Services and uncheck CPU Frequency Manager.

For me, I had to do it on every startup because it would be running again on startup, even though it's still UNchecked in Services.

Strangely, I don't get the freeze up anymore, even with powernowd on. I think installing firefox 3 had something to do with it??? Or maybe it was Xgl. (xserver-xgl)

Hope that solves the dilemma of FIREfox FREEZING!! ;)

Reference and credit for this solution: [http://linuxtechie.wordpress.com/2007/10/15/annoying-freezes-caused-by-nvidia-driver/](http://linuxtechie.wordpress.com/2007/10/15/annoying-freezes-caused-by-nvidia-driver/)

---

### Post by armandh on 2007-12-03
> **azimuth said:**
> That has to be as profound as anything I've seen on these forums.

thanks 

but like my son's former car/hot rod there is always a weakest link where things chained togeather
[code/power transmission/etc] will breakdown when pushed hard 
at least with ubuntu one can open the hood

---

### Post by BillDozer on 2007-12-03
Some small gltiches here.

My Western Digital MyBook external hard drive occasionally unmounts, never had this in 7.04. When I press the shutdown button, sometimes it takes a long time (> 1 minute) for the shutdown dialog to appear.

Other than that, I really like 7.10 but on the other hand it feels to me 7.04 was a bit more stable.

---

### Post by ClarkePeters on 2008-01-17
been using ubuntu since first dapper release. Gutsy is buggy, period! Don't upgrade if everything is fine in your current version, and for goodness sake DON"T recommend Gutsy to a friend or first time user, we'll lose them all back to windows again!!!

---

### Post by conehead77 on 2008-01-17
> **ClarkePeters said:**
> been using ubuntu since first dapper release. Gutsy is buggy, period! Don't upgrade if everything is fine in your current version, and for goodness sake DON"T recommend Gutsy to a friend or first time user, we'll lose them all back to windows again!!!

It was unstable for me (ATI X700) until i turned off desktop effects and installed the proprietary driver.
I dont know if its only compiz causing instabilities, but for me it seems so.

---

