---
title: "7.10 -&gt; 8.04 b0rked me system"
date: 2008-07-03
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by i.r.id10t on 2008-07-03
Well, in truth it isn't b0rked, it is working, but not like it was pre-upgrade ... 

<mode=rant type=massive_fit>

So I've been waiting to update here at work, my home system updated just fine for what I do at home... basic web surfing, playing movies, playing QuakeWorld, etc.

However, here at work, lots of things are just plain wrong... 

1) I need Firefox 2 for work, since some of what I do requires it (FF3 isn't supported for our course management system for another 60 days or so while testing is being done).  So I removed FF3 and installed FF2, but now the only plugins I have available are Acrobat and Flash (non-free).  I've tried reinstalling the java plugin, no joy at all. And I *must* have java support.

2) Fonts are almost all gone in FF2.  At home I did the same downgrade, all my plugins are there, and all my fonts are there.

3) Apparently Gnome no longer uses Nautilus for FTP site viewing (authenticated) but calls up Firefox instead.

</mode>

Now don't get me wrong, I love Ubuntu.  I've used Linux since '97, and have been thru most of the major distributions and a few not-so-major ones, including LFS when it was a "simple" guide/howto.  My past dist-upgrades (6.10 -> 7.04, 7.04 -> 7.10) all went flawless.  But some of this inconsistency is starting to really chap my @ss... especially since I teach a Linux admin course using Ubuntu.  

I think I'll keep Ubuntu for desktop use - at home, at work, and for the course I teach - but the course I teach will be loading up vmware and using pure Debian next semester...

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-07-03
ubuntu 8.04.1 comes out today. (i think) why not backup your stuff and do a fresh install? you will probably be happier. i've never done an upgrade due to the number of horror stories i hear. there's nothing like that new OS smell.

---

### Post by i.r.id10t on 2008-07-03
Well, I've fixed most of it.  Just logged out of X, went to a console, and deleted my various . directories for gnome and nautilus.  Still working on the java plugin, but I can do that manually....

---

### Post by hansdown on 2008-07-04
> **wolfen69 said:**
> ubuntu 8.04.1 comes out today. (i think) why not backup your stuff and do a fresh install? you will probably be happier. i've never done an upgrade due to the number of horror stories i hear. there's nothing like that new OS smell.

You speak the truth my man. A fresh install does wonders for my system.It's mostly due to my inexperience with computers though. hansdown.

---

