---
title: "11.04 partial upgrades - intuitive"
date: 2011-03-18
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by ventrical on 2011-03-18
taking a 16GB pendrive, installing Ubuntu 10.10 and then running the Natty upgrade from there on line is a real experience. It is very surprising how the update manager interacts with the system - and is able to check obsoleted packages and replace them with new ones.

so far this process is fairly flawless and I would just like to comment  on the brilliant programming of Canonical devlopers.

Great job!! Distro upgrades online without fresh installs.!! Others have tried and failed. Ubuntu has achieved success.

Thanks.

re; <running partial upgrades>

---

### Post by ventrical on 2011-03-18
well the upgrade did knock out access to my wireless card  :)

hehehe

finally I get a bug.

:)

---

### Post by tlcstat on 2011-03-18
Greetings,
Thats odd! Same thing happened to me on a previous upgrade, think it was when I upgraded to 10.04. I've been doing clean installs since then. 
tlcstat

---

### Post by johntaylor1887 on 2011-03-19
> **tlcstat said:**
> Greetings,
Thats odd! Same thing happened to me on a previous upgrade, think it was when I upgraded to 10.04. I've been doing clean installs since then. 
tlcstat

I've been doing clean installs for 25 years. I refuse to overwrite existing files and "hope" it turns out well. I believe that with good planning and a solid backups, it's actually easier and faster to do a clean install.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2011-03-19
> johntaylor1887
I've been doing clean installs for 25 years. I refuse to overwrite  existing files and "hope" it turns out well. I believe that with good  planning and a solid backups, it's actually easier and faster to do a  clean install. 	


+1
Upgrading, by overwriting existing files is (IMHO) a risky endeavor. When performing an upgrade, I always recommend a clean install.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2011-03-19
I have to agree with you all to some degree. However, when I did the initial upgrade using terminal it worked out very well .. and then subsequent updates.  I then put (natty) on the shelf for a bit and decided to just do a run-up last night which is when I experienced the "running partial upgrades".

  I think what happened is that when it asked me if I wanted to delete obsoleted files is where I made a wrong turn.

Thats when I lost my GRUB boot screen and wireless.

 Thanks for all the input.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2011-03-19
.

Ok..so far so good. I got my GRUB boot screen back. I like the way the new screen is set up with the 'plymouth' theme I believe it is called?

Now i am going to try and get my wireless driver back.

This is all a real experience.:)

---

### Post by ventrical on 2011-03-19
I downloaded the A3 ISO and it all came together nicely on my pendrive.

Thanks again.

But I still like the 'partial upgrade' concept. There is a lot of promise there.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-03-20
> **ventrical said:**
> But I still like the 'partial upgrade' concept. There is a lot of promise there.

Indeed, a lot of promise to hose your system. A partial upgrade in Update Manager during the development phase needs to be avoided or used with very great care. Perhaps you missed this sticky:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1641400](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1641400)

It was in the testing phase of an earlier release  that Update Manager acquired the nickname "Update Mangler" because of this very issue. Unfair, because this is not the fault of Update Manager, simply a reflection of the occasionally inconsistent state of the repositories during the development phase.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2011-03-20
I can see some of it but I still think there is potential. The reason being that the 'partial upgrade' did not hose my system , really. I was working an experiment on a maveric 10.10 install on a new 16GB pendrive. So I then updated the (natty) from there which actually worked better than the alpha 3 CD distro!!

The only 'mangling' that took place was the wireless drivers being misplaced and that (I strongly believe) was due to deleting an obsoleted file.  So I am more apt to blame my inexperience in using the 'partial upgrader' from the update manager rather than to blame the update manager at all.

During one reboot it actually gave me a line adress warning that my wireless drivers needed to be updated and the web-site to update them from.

  What I am saying (from a programming point of view) is that it is all too easy to do a fresh install rather that to try and do the hard-ball re-config.

  I cannot really complain because most of my 'other' commercial PC carreer was doing line-by-line repairs of registries and malware removals so I can't  balk too loud when a new ubuntu alpha coughs up a bug a me.

I think what is lost in translation is that the 'partial upgrader" and upgrader in general only works for (natty) if you have a previous release of maveric 10.10 installed and not from 10.04LTS (correct me please if I am wrong).

  And pointing to another OS, Fedora, which was a seamless  'online 'upgrade' from Hubbard to Laughlin. That upgrade did not affect any system settings (as far as wireless also).

  I'm not saying the Ubuntu upgrader is defective - I think all the flags were there but I just wanted to  run it through and so I just blindly chose to remove the old, obsolteted config files when prompted and I think that is all what the problem was - not the integrity of the updater itself.

Thanks for your reply.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-03-20
> **ventrical said:**
> I think what is lost in translation is that the 'partial upgrader" and upgrader in general only works for (natty) if you have a previous release of maveric 10.10 installed and not from 10.04LTS (correct me please if I am wrong).

My understanding is that the partial upgrade offering is there in a stable release if there is a dependency problem for whatever reason, and this protects your system. Which is a good thing, and I agree with you that it is helpful.

However, during the testing phase of a particular release, such as where we are with 11.04 at the moment, you can expect the repositories to be inconsistent very frequently. That's just part of the reality of the testing phase. And, for the reasons given in that sticky, inconsistencies in the repositories can confuse and stress Update Manager in a way that it was not designed for. Hence all the caveats and warnings.

I would guess that the partial upgrade may have served you well in the transition from Maverick to Natty, but you would be well advised not to accept a partial upgrade now that you have a Natty system. If you have, and have got away with it, then, believe me, you have been lucky! :)

Most of us who lurk in the Natty testing subforum, try Synaptic and/or 'apt-get dist-upgrade' and/or 'aptitude safe-upgrade' when wanting to apply updates because they are safer than Update Manager. We compare what each wants to do and check in the forum before proceeding. Most of us certainly don't use Update Manager because it's seemingly always wanting to do a partial upgrade, and when Synaptic or aptitude tells you it wants to uninstall Unity or xserver-xorg-core (:shock:) or something equally essential, you know something's not quite right.

But that's all the fun of Alpha testing. :)

---

### Post by tlcstat on 2011-03-20
Hey Ventrical, you are a cool guy and thanks for all of you input over the time I have been using this OS. ......However, most of us are using a geeky, techie, OS that has virtually no support from the HW suppliers, and admittedly we have had a career in PC, and we can't wade through a online update without difficulty, then what is the noobie suppose to do? Heck! I used to get paid for this!
Do a clean install and move on.
I love you man but I think you've had way too much Ubuntu!
tlcstat

Come to think of it, it would't hurt for some of us to test the update process. Just for the noobie of course! OK! I take it all back!

---

### Post by ventrical on 2011-03-20
@coffeecat,

 I think you explained precisely what I was getting at!!  Thanks. It was interesting to watch the process take place from the command_line.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2011-03-20
> **tlcstat said:**
> Hey Ventrical, you are a cool guy and thanks for all of you input over the time I have been using this OS. ......However, most of us are using a geeky, techie, OS that has virtually no support from the HW suppliers, and admittedly we have had a career in PC, and we can't wade through a online update without difficulty, then what is the noobie suppose to do?  Heck! I used to get paid for this!
Do a clean install and move on.
I love you man but I think you've had way too much Ubuntu!
tlcstat

Come to think of it, it would't hurt for some of us to test the update process. Just for the noobie of course! OK! I take it all back!

Thanks.. Maybe I am just lucky.  I just like the ride ..watching the main springs do there thing from the commandline terminal.  It brings me back to a time when I used this tool back many , many years ago using Packard/Bell Reflex Database and a tool called a 'partial retrieve'.  The tool was supposed to only load up a small part of the DBase so as physical memory did not have to keep getting upgraded - more or less a serial load from the hard-drive. Of course the program crashed (and I near lost my job) but it was determined that the program tool was buggy from the start.

Hope I am not drinking too much Ubuntu but this OS is just somthing else eh! :)

---

### Post by ventrical on 2011-03-28
Ok... I did what every body suggested in the other forums and installed it side-by-side with Maveric. It operates a lot better (Unity that is). I also followed a suggestion to do updates from Synaptic PKG Manager. That worked ok but the dern 'partial upgrade' thingy came back up again !! So I ignored it !! 
 
Everything was working just fine and then i decided to reboot and , once again, it knocked out my wirless setup like a champ.!! It recognizes the card (worked great with maveric/lucid) but now there is a real reluctance from the card to operate as it did during the install and before updates.

  I also did all the stuff with updating first using my DSL cable etc... but the wireless is a true bug I think. I am not complaining .. I know that this will get ironed out ..


  So I really do not think that Unity is the problem -  I think that updates are ahead of the kernel or the kernel is ahead of the updates. :)

jk

ps. and now I know somebody is going to say somthing real simple that  I didn't do or forgot  and i am going to feel like a complete noob ! :)

hehaehahaeheah....

whew... :)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-03-28
@ventrical, this is not the place for technical discussions, only testimonials and experiences. Unless your threads are a testimonials or experiences, please post in the proper section of the forums.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2011-03-28
...but it was a testimon.... nevermind..

your right.

---

### Post by johntaylor1887 on 2011-03-28
Ventrical, are you reporting bugs?

---

### Post by ventrical on 2011-03-29
> **johntaylor1887 said:**
> Ventrical, are you reporting bugs?


Your right . I didn't see that at first.

apologies..

---

### Post by ventrical on 2011-04-01
Ok...thanks everybody. My wireless is working great now. Not sure what the prob was but  I just switched to a "Previous Version in the Grub. and its working good. I am getting a chance to see how the Unity Shell for GNOME works and I must say it has a lot of potential.

---

