---
title: "9.04: A Better Ubuntu"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by coldReactive on 2009-04-26
I've recently installed Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope, and I have to say it's blazing fast in comparison to other versions I've tried. Compiz is even faster than before than on 8.04 and 8.10 (In 8.10, there was a problem with xorg and compiz for me, which caused system lockups for about two seconds when scrolling in Firefox while playing music at the same time, which is now resolved it seems.) So now I've removed my Windows OS and moved to Ubuntu, but we'll see how long it lasts. In the future my ATI HD3200 integrated graphics may be blacklisted, at which point I'll have to ask how to remove the blacklist item. But that may not be for a few years. I also see that the IOMMU warning is gone from the boot errors I get, which would make 5 errors/warnings on booting Ubuntu if it was still there.

In any case, I should also point out some cons, or trouble I had when I first installed the OS.

1. Pidgin didn't have its tray icon set to "Always" for a default unlike the previous versions of Ubuntu. Instead, they had this crazy envelope icon that didn't allow you to access pidgin's tray icon's right-click menu.

Fix For 1: In the buddy list window; Tools > Preferences > Interface Tab and set "Show system tray icon:" to Always, then right-click the envelope near/in the tray and click remove from panel to say goodbye to it forever!

2. USB Drives would not automount on Boot.

Fix for 2: Add usb_storage on its own line in /etc/modules.

3. libnotify popup for pidgin was on by default. Sometimes it came up a lot.

Fix for 3: Turn it off in Plugins for Pidgin. (Right-click tray icon after fixing it above OR go in the buddy list window and go to Tools > Plugins)

4. Pulseaudio still is the default sound manager.

Fix for 4: [remove pulseaudio and install esound]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7126645&postcount=2") then restart. Remember to remove /etc/X11/Xsession.d/70pulseaudio before restarting

I was able to fix the cons rather easily, but the solutions were not easy to find. Now, with esound in jaunty, it plays the login and system sounds correctly, it also is faster with flash than pulseaudio. So I've converted to esound.

[[img]http://th08.deviantart.com/fs42/150/i/2009/115/d/5/April_25th__09___Ubuntu_9_04_by_coldReactive.png[/img]](http://fc09.deviantart.com/fs42/f/2009/115/6/b/April_25th__09___Ubuntu_9_04_by_coldReactive.png)

Wallpaper: [Click Here](http://vandorthewanderer.deviantart.com/art/WP-Orange-109473966)

---

### Post by whitefort on 2009-04-26
A better Ubuntu?

Well, I guess all these things are subjective and hardware-dependent, and admittedly my main PC may be a little past its sell-by date, but...

I loved Jaunty at first sight - faster bootup times, etc., etc., but the love affair ended when I started trying to actually WORK on my machine.

I started Ubuntu with Dapper, and this is the first Ubuntu since then that's given me major headaches, with lots and lots of tweaking required on stuff that's previously 'just worked' in Ubuntu.

Just to mention a few - software packages missing from the repositories (where's Tor, for example?);  Multimedia stuff requiring workarounds and tweaks to get it to work at all;  Absolutely no desktop effects.

And so on.

I wouldn't mind - I'm used to Linux needing workarounds and tweaks - but this is all stuff that wasn't even an issue on my machines in previous Ubuntus.

And, yeah, I know that because it's not working for me doesn't mean it's not working for everyone else...  but it does mean *I* personally can feel a bit miffed about it!

---

### Post by kspncr on 2009-04-26
Off topic, but I think your wallpaper (or something similar) is what the default should be. It could work. It goes with the color scheme and it's nice. Well done.

---

### Post by ashmew2 on 2009-04-26
> **kspncr said:**
> off topic, but i think your wallpaper (or something similar) is what the default should be. It could work. It goes with the color scheme and it's nice. Well done.

+1.

---

### Post by coldReactive on 2009-04-26
> **kspncr said:**
> Off topic, but I think your wallpaper (or something similar) is what the default should be. It could work. It goes with the color scheme and it's nice. Well done.

Thanks, you also reminded me to put a link to the wallpaper.

---

