---
title: "11.04: My experience"
date: 2011-06-24
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by petrus4 on 2011-06-24
I recently had a very positive experience with Ubuntu 11.04, which I wanted to share.

I had been using FreeBSD, but had started having a lot of problems with it because I have new hardware, which wasn't compatible with it.  So one night, finally in complete desperation, I downloaded Ubuntu 11.04, in order to install it.

Although I didn't end up installing it, it ended up being very valuable the next day, when an attempt at compiling a custom FreeBSD kernel failed, and made my computer unbootable.  I used Ubuntu as a Live CD for 30-60 minutes or so, and was able to obtain the information I needed from the World Wide Web to solve the problem with FreeBSD.

I also thought Ubuntu's new interface looked very attractive.  The media player and files came up straight away, and both video and my sound card worked flawlessly and immediately, as did my Ethernet connection to the Internet.

I've since gone back to Windows 7, (largely because I want to play games, but also because SLI for my video cards doesn't work in either Linux or FreeBSD) and FreeBSD has also been removed for the time being; but I will keep my 11.04 CD as a rescue disk in case I ever need it for either Windows or another operating system, and I also recommended Ubuntu to my father on the phone, just earlier today, when he mentioned having problems with Windows as well.

Canonical has come a long way, and I am going to continue to keep an eye on Ubuntu's progress.  If nVidia releases a Linux driver with SLI support for my video cards, I may also consider reinstalling it.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-06-24
Cards for gaming or vid production? You might like to look at Ubuntu Studio if the latter in the future. ;)

---

### Post by petrus4 on 2011-06-24
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Cards for gaming or vid production? You might like to look at Ubuntu Studio if the latter in the future. ;)

Either, although vid production as well.  That sounds good...thank you for the tip!

---

### Post by ukripper on 2011-06-26
I enjoyed 11.04 experience but now I am enjoying LMDE(Katya) more than Natty. I had few performance issues with 11.04 which solved by Katya. I'll probably give 11.10 a go soon.

---

