---
title: "10.10 really IS the worst version -- ever!"
date: 2010-11-02
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-11-02
After using Ubuntu for YEARS, I never thought I'd find myself saying this -- but I'm forced to agree with others that Ubuntu is going downhill.  Version 10.10 really IS the worst version -- ever!

In the last three years, I've had to use Recovery Mode maybe 3-4 times -- and in nearly all those cases, it was because I was messing around with something and hosed it up so bad that I had to resort to Recovery Mode to fix it. But with 10.10 -- I've had to restort to Recovery Mode four times in the last TWO WEEKS!  And that has resulted from my doing NOTHING.  That's right -- NOTHING. Like so many other folks here, I simply booted my machine one day and got a blank screen.  No error messages.  No blinking cursor.  Just a blank screen.

It happened again today.  But this time, even going into Recovery Mode three times did not fix it.

The much-longer boot time for 10.10 over 10.04 was irritating, to be sure, but at least I EVENTUALLY got to a desktop -- at first.  But now, nothing I do can get 10.10 to give me my desktop back.  So, unhappily, I now join the ranks of folks disgusted at the breakage in the latest Ubuntu version.

And yeah, I know I'm going to get flamed big-time for daring to criticize our beloved Maverick -- but you know, any OS, no matter how much it costs, is only so good as it is useful -- and while tweaking around to customize it or to improve it's performance is both fun and informative -- having it crap out on you four times in two weeks, and finally, just stop working -- that's just plain disgusting.

So, like so many others in a growing list -- I'm back to 10.04.

Just want the rest of you who are new at this, and suddenly find yourself with a blank black screen -- it's nothing you did. It's not your fault. It's the broken Ubuntu version known as 10.10.

---

### Post by kirkface8 on 2010-11-02
are you sure its not gnome.
i get the black screen as well. but kde and awesomeWM still works fine.
i believe messing around with gnome, renaming it. Ubuntu Desktop has messed it up.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-11-02
Since I can no longer get to a desktop. I don't know WHAT it is.  So, yes, it COULD be Gnome.

But Gnome is my desktop of choice.  I tried KDE and didn't like it -- too much like MS Windows for my taste.

And, before you ask, I have NOT been messing around with Gnome.  So, if it broke, I didn't do it.

---

### Post by Old *ix Geek on 2010-11-02
I'm sticking with 9.10! I used the version upgrade method of going from [Kubuntu] 9.10 to 10.04 on one of my computers--and hated it. The splash screen alone was enough to make me want to go back--it looked awful and unprofessional, especially compared to the beautiful splash screen of 9.10. So after a lot of silly issues that I had neither the desire nor energy to fix, I went back to 9.10. From things I've read about 10.10, I won't be upgrading to that any time soon either!

---

### Post by kirkface8 on 2010-11-02
haha i wasent going to ask that. i do belive 10.10 is the worst. and yeah im still an ubuntu noob.
im trying to solve this black screen problem atm. but i recomend installing another environment or window manager seeing as gnome as craps out and its good to have a secondary one to solve this.

if i come across a solution i will post

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2010-11-02
I agree with kirkface8 and suspect Gnome (or really Nautilus) as the cause of your problems. I quit using Gnome two years ago because of Nautilus being so deeply integrated into the Gnome environment. Nautilus doesn't play well with other desktop sessions such as Openbox, lxde or KDE and would protest by just screwing up the whole shebang. Now I use only Xubuntu which is very friendly towards excessive experimentation on my part... and Xubuntu 10.10 works better than any previous version.

---

### Post by kirkface8 on 2010-11-02
yeah agree with 4orbs. i deeply hate nautlius. haha

---

### Post by Chronon on 2010-11-02
This seems like a testimonial rather than a support thread.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2010-11-02
A testimonial that could potentially fix his problem.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-11-02
well i find it to be the best OS ever! lol  :-P

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-11-02
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> 
..........
Just want the rest of you who are new at this, and suddenly find yourself with a blank black screen -- it's nothing you did. It's not your fault. It's the broken Ubuntu version known as 10.10.

I have just installed 10.10 on my netbook and it works fine, I will not consider putting 10.10 on my main desktop for at least another month (if at all, I like LTS releases).

Anyone with any experience whatsoever will always wait **at least** a month after a new version's release for all the drooling "gimmie it now" people to live with all the inevitable problems that every new release has.

10.10 will be no different to any other Ubuntu release, some people will have issues with their particular hardware, some won't. Some people who do fresh installs will have less problems than those who follow the upgrade path.

With every single Ubuntu release since 4.10 I have seen posts proclaiming the new version "the worst ever"!

---

### Post by satish_j on 2010-11-02
I think all these problems are the results of Bugs in the new kernel releases,which(if iam not wrong)are maintained by Canonical and not Ubuntu team.

---

### Post by kirkface8 on 2010-11-02
solved your problem op
assuming your problem was the same as mine

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1611521](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1611521)

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2010-11-02
> Anyone with any experience whatsoever will always wait at least a month after a new version's release for all the drooling "gimmie it now" people to live with all the inevitable problems that every new release has.
Sometimes I drool, but I never wait for a month.

---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-11-02
I've been using 10.10 for sometime now, and not a single issue so far, everything works like charm.

---

### Post by Rellik Faros on 2010-11-02
I'm new to Ubuntu and really Linux in general, so I can't really attest to how 10.10 stacks up against previous versions of Ubuntu or even other Linux distros.  

What I can say without any doubt is that 10.10 has given me nothing but headaches since the day I started to install it as a dual boot on my laptop.  To begin with, when I first installed it in my computer, it placed the GRUB in the wrong location, meaning that when I turned on the computer, it would completely ignore the fact that there were two operating systems and just boot straight to Windows without any kind of multi-boot selection method.  It was easy enough to fix with some simple Terminal commands given to me by someone here on the forum, but it was still very frustrating since the problem was caused completely by the installer, and was in no way my fault.  

I've also been having numerous issues with the GUI, including copies of icons on the taskbar blocking other icons, making them unusable, as well as having certain programs (Usually Tomboy) leave an imprint of themselves on the screen after I close the program.  

The absolute most annoying issue I've been having though is the constant problems I have trying to access the internet.  I'll be fine for maybe the first thirty minutes of use, but then I won't be able to access anything at all.  It's not that the computer or browser freezes or anything, it just can't pull up any pages, and keeps giving me Page Not Found or Could Not Contact Server errors.  I've tried using multiple browsers with the exact same result.  I know the problem isn't with my router or the connection, because none of my other internet devices have ever given me any trouble, and I know it's not my computer's hardware, because when I hop on Windows 7, I never have any problems.  By simple process of elimination, that means that the problem must lie somewhere within 10.10.

I was originally drawn to Ubuntu because of all of the useful programs and features that come with it upon instillation, as well as the fact that Linux OSs have such great security against viruses and malware, but given all the problems and headaches this OS has been given me, I'm honestly starting to think that it's really not worth it.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2010-11-02
Hi

For me stability is _far_ more important than the latest and greatest. I have stuck with 10.04 LTS for that exact reason. I never upgrade after the off and always leave it plenty of time if i do for issues to be fixed. I generally run the upgrades in a VM to get a feel for the stability and usability of the upgrade. As for 10.10, there do seems to be a disproportionate number of issues arising and most are based around the same themes.

Kind regards

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2010-11-02
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> I simply booted my machine one day and got a blank screen.  No error messages.  No blinking cursor.  Just a blank screen.Which video card & driver set are you running?

---

### Post by Legeril on 2010-11-02
> **matt_symes said:**
> Hi

For me stability is _far_ more important than the latest and greatest. I have stuck with 10.04 LTS for that exact reason. I never upgrade after the off and always leave it plenty of time if i do for issues to be fixed. I generally run the upgrades in a VM to get a feel for the stability and usability of the upgrade. As for 10.10, there do seems to be a disproportionate number of issues arising and most are based around the same themes.

Kind regards

I whole heartedly agree, a secure and stable OS is far more important to me than shiny buttons and lots of levers to pull - that is after all the main reason most of us ditched Windoze in the first place I'd bet. Though I have not been encouraged to upgrade to 10.10, I wasn't planning on doing it anytime soon - in fact I have been considering a 'downgrade' to 9.10 where I could regain some of the functionality that has been lost over time :P

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-11-02
Please note that though Ubuntu is a distribution maintained by Canonical, it is not in charge of every single upstream project. Unless you strongly suspect an Ubuntu patch of being the problem, the issue likely comes from somewhere else on the free software stack. All the changes done to every package are logged in /usr/share/doc.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-11-02
> **dcstar said:**
> 
With every single Ubuntu release since 4.10 I have seen posts proclaiming the new version "the worst ever"!

Exactly.

edit: afterthought; to be honest, these kind of posts showed up a lot more often with previous releases. Usually with a new release this forum is flooded for a few weeks by posts complaining how bad the new ubuntu is, how it bricks their system how the previous was so much better. Havent seen very many of those with 10.10.

---

### Post by katykat on 2010-11-02
Watch out for Synaptic. 
Innocent enough looking packages can mangle your system. 

Something has taken out your networking, do a google to find the proper configuration, but in the mean time use /sbin/dhclient3 to configure and start up your network.

---

### Post by lotharmat on 2010-11-02
> **kniwor said:**
> I've been using 10.10 for sometime now, and not a single issue so far, everything works like charm.

Ditto - Much more stable than 10.04

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-11-02
> **kniwor said:**
> I've been using 10.10 for sometime now, and not a single issue so far, everything works like charm.

yeah.
10.10 really IS the best version -- ever!

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2010-11-02
How much of these problems are hardware related? 10.10 worked good on my laptop but not the desktop. I am using 10.04 on both machines with no problems.

Seems that I also had issues with Intrepid Ibex 8.10. So each case, I feel, will be different with each user and their system configuration.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2010-11-02
Hi

> 
How much of  these problems are hardware related? 10.10 worked good on my laptop but  not the desktop. I am using 10.04 on both machines with no problems.
 
Seems that I also had issues with Intrepid Ibex 8.10. So each case, I  feel, will be different with each user and their system configuration.


I could not agree more. I think alot of the issues are hardware/driver configuration issues. Canonical does not have the same access to hardware configurations that the commercial companies have and consequently cannot test on such a large variety of hardware.

However, I remember my first forays into *nux using mandrake and redhat and things are much better now.

Kind regards

---

### Post by cpmman on 2010-11-02
> **matt_symes said:**
> Canonical does not have the same access to hardware configurations that the commercial companies have and consequently cannot test on such a large variety of hardware.


Which is why it is important that as many people as possible test the next release on their configuration.  I have Natty 32 on one disc and Natty 64 on another with no problems whatsoever yet on either one.

---

### Post by seenthelite on 2010-11-02
@the OP

This has me smiling when I remember your post regarding testing way back in the 10.04 testing phase. These problems will get picked up when more people are involved in testing , not discouraged.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2010-11-02
Hi

Alright. I have never done any testing. How do you get involved and what is the process?

Kind regards

---

### Post by seenthelite on 2010-11-02
> **matt_symes said:**
> Hi

Alright. I have never done any testing. How do you get involved and what is the process?

Kind regards

Have a look here


[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394)

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2010-11-02
> **P4man said:**
> to be honest, these kind of posts showed up a lot more often with previous releases. Usually with a new release this forum is flooded for a few weeks by posts complaining how bad the new ubuntu is, how it bricks their system how the previous was so much better. Havent seen very many of those with 10.10.

I get the same impression. I was testing Maverick pre-release on three different machines since about alpha-1 and it seemed more  stable than previous testing phases. A bit boring really. And with the exception of a Fn-key brightness breakage on one laptop Maverick continues to be boringly rock-solid for me even now it's been released.

I'm sorry the OP is having problems with 10.10 but it sounds like a specific hardware issue, so it's illogical for the OP to make such a blanket condemnation.

> **matt_symes said:**
> Hi

Alright. I have never done any testing. How do you get involved and what is the process?

Come and join the fun in the forum seenthelite has linked:

> **seenthelite said:**
> [http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394)

I've already got Natty running on one of my laptops and it's fixed the Fn key brightness issue. Which is nice. :)

---

### Post by t.rei on 2010-11-02
Usually the claim that this is the worst release ever (every 6 months about a dozen threads like that pop up) is linked to personal hardware problems and regression in that area plus the believe that a distro should work flawlessly on absolutely anything.

I guess it's a compliment to the ubuntu developers and linux codes really: I remember the time when installing linux and getting to a SHELL was big party-time! And last millenia. ;)

For me maverick runs very very reliably. And smoothly. Only thing that bugs me sometimes is the very slow startup and boot process... compared to a clean install on the same machine. With the same software running. I wish there was a proper "redo the core system" method beyond "install again without replacing your home partition". :) The weak problems of linux today....

---

### Post by TheAnachron on 2010-11-02
Okay dude, this is my experience:

Installed 10.04 beta. Worked fine. Had some graphical issues with nvidia, had to reinstall it.

Had samba problems, had to reinstall it. Else everything worked as expected.

Updated to 10.10.

Boottime decreased by about 2 seconds.
Shutdown time decreased by 1.2 seconds.
Samba works properly now.
No graphic issues anymore.

And if you have so many freaking errors, just make a backup of your files and reinstall it completly after wiping your disk.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-11-02
Works for me...
In terms of complaints, I think 8.10 was the worst release.

---

### Post by TheAnachron on 2010-11-02
As I said, now in 10.10 everything works perfect.

I guess op should just make a fresh install.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-11-02
Interesting replies ... lot less hostility than I was expecting ...

Some responses ...

1) Hardware -- exactly the same hardware as with 10.04.  Same video card (ATI X1650), open-source drivers. Have tried different degrees of desktop effects -- no change. Have encountered NO video-related problems other than this "unable to boot to desktop" which has happened (apparently at random) four times now.

2) Fresh install -- it was a fresh install.  I always do a fresh install.  And, the "unable to boot to desktop problems" started the very second day after installing the released version -- BEFORE I did any upgrades or installed any packages other than those that get installed by default.  So while it MAY be updates, it started before any updates were applied.  Also, I did not experience the problems immediately after the updates, but instead, after 2-3 more reboots later.  So, while a set of updates CAN cause problems, I have a hard time understanding how those same problems could "hide" for several reboots and then suddenly, appear.

3) Testing -- I did do testing on the pre-release versions and, ironically, encountered NO problems at all!  That's why, unlike with previous versions, I did not wait a couple of months to switch over.  I felt confident in making the move -- which is why the sudden failures are so disappointing.

4) Every release is the worst ever.  Yeah, I've read those, too.  But in my case, I've been running Ubuntu distros since 7.10 and this is the first time I've experienced this severity and frequency of problems with a new release.

5) This is the BEST release every.  I'm happy for you -- really!  I've felt the same about previous releases myself.  It's just that this release has been a really big disappointment in its instability.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2010-11-02
Hi

Mark. We feel your pain. Maybe rollback to 10.04? And before you say it, i know that's not the point:)

Kind regards

---

### Post by s.fox on 2010-11-02
Thread moved to  [Ubuntu Testimonials & Experiences]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=103") at op request.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-11-02
Its next to impossible to guess how well or bad a release is working statistically, but one gets an idea by looking at the posts by first time posters who just installed ubuntu when a new release is out, and are usually clueless about it (I dont mean derogative way obviously, just that usuallly cant solve their own problems alone).

What ive seen most common are (in no particular order):
- trouble installing due to typing username with capitals (hardly a bug)
- various sound and wifi related issues (eternal hardware specific problems)
- some machines that needed nomodeset to install and boot (issue since 10.04)
- some issues with proprietary drivers with particular nVidia cards. (thats rather new)
- lots of user questions rather than problems

With 10.04 and previous releases there where lots and lots of people who couldnt install, would have severe stability problems, all kinds of weird issues and stuff not working. Ive seen very few of those now. Either less people tried 10.10, or its working a lot better. My guess is the latter.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-11-02
I think if the OP had just a few forum beans and only came in to seek assistance then I'd tend to believe it was just another person posting about the letdown of yet another release. However, I have seen so many times his assistance to other users so I tend to believe that his experience with Ubuntu is sufficient to really judge a release not playing nicely on the hardware he has access to in order to properly test and evaluate against other releases.
 
I didn't like 10.10's inherent bugs and figured I'd sit this one out till either many claims about things smoothing out (just like 10.04 did) and improving. I had terrible speed issues with 10.10 on one machine while the other ran well. I had horrible wireless on one while another worked great. On one machine coming out of hibernate seemed to take forever while another was within about 5 seconds. One booted quickly and another was slower. My issues were different on different hardware, but frustratingly so because there were just more issues this time than 10.04 or even 9.10. Since I only have a few configurations I can test on I just reverted back and I'm sitting on the sidelines enjoying the speed and stability 10.04 now has. 
 
10.04 started out horribly for me. My laptops got to crucial heat levels very quickly and the system was a dog. Whatever got worked out from 10.04 to 10.04.1 was like a miracle for my hardware and now it's nice and smooth. I may not even upgrade till I get tired of older apps, which won't likely be soon. I feel for the OP and with my several configurations this one was a bit harder out of the shoot than other versions so I tend to agree somewhat. I don't know about worst ever, but worst for me in my time with Ubuntu. However, it usually gets worked out soon after release so we may have a different perspective in a month or two.

---

### Post by Eddison on 2010-11-02
Hi Guys,

Enjoying the discussion. I'm a complete noob, but a bit worried I might find a black screen one day. I wouldn't know where to start to fix something like this, and as I'm a consultant, I wouldn't have the time or patience! 
Maybe I should do as others describe- switch to Xubuntu as they say it is more reliable.
But could someone tell me what major differences / disadvantages Xubuntu has over Ubuntu?

One thing not happening is going back to MS :P

many thanks,
Eddison

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-11-02
> **Eddison said:**
> Hi Guys,
 
Enjoying the discussion. I'm a complete noob, but a bit worried I might find a black screen one day. I wouldn't know where to start to fix something like this, and as I'm a consultant, I wouldn't have the time or patience! 
Maybe I should do as others describe- switch to Xubuntu as they say it is more reliable.
But could someone tell me what major differences / disadvantages Xubuntu has over Ubuntu?
 
One thing not happening is going back to MS :P
 
many thanks,
Eddison
 
Eddison, I don't think you'll get the stability you were alluding to switching to Xubuntu if you are just going from Ubuntu 10.10 to Xubuntu 10.10. They're the same core system running different desktop environments (Ubuntu uses Gnome and Xubuntu uses Xfce). There are other small differences but none that will gain stability from one over the other. As a matter of fact you can just add the Xfce environment to your Ubuntu install.
 
If you want a bit of stability and you use your system to support your business, perhaps 10.04 (Lucid Lynx) would be a better choice. It has 3 years of support (it's a LTS - long term support) for updates and it is very stable for many users. You can run it from a LiveCD to make sure it supports your hardware before making any decisions either way.
 
I'm not encouraging you to switch because a breakage in either can cause headaches. That's the nature of the beast and no different than Windows borking. A corrupted update from errors in the download to system issues can be fixed, but you may require assistance here to figure out how to go about it. That's the key...you have tons of resources here to walk you through what you may not understand. But sticking with it and learning as you go will make you a more advanced user as you face different obstacles.
 
Do what's best for your business. 10.10 just came out and has 18 months of support or 10.04 with 3 years. Either is a good choice if they run well on your hardware.

---

### Post by karmila on 2010-11-02
> **Rasa1111 said:**
> well i find it to be the best OS ever! lol  :-P

Ah I agree with this.

For me 10.10 better than 10.04 in performance, it fast!

---

### Post by TheAnachron on 2010-11-02
I think some problems are

- Users upgrading their manipulated systems. And with that I mean that they changed something themself and ubuntu was unable to upgrade/use it anymore.
- Users not knowing what they are doing / the differences between linux and windows.

---

### Post by Eddison on 2010-11-02
Hi,

Thanks for the replies. Yes, the support is tremendous, I have to agree. Not trying to dis Ubuntu or anything! 
One guy said he got this black screen 4 times in the last two weeks, that's all. This guy seemed very experienced.
I did use version 9, and 10.04 and both very good. But I upgraded all my hardware, and felt 10.10 should have learned from a little from the past.
 
So I installed a fresh copy of 10.10, and not an upgrade. I think 10.10 is much better. My experiences with upgrades are not pretty! However I must admit this is a fantastic version, and have no problems really. Just a little paranoia from previous disastrous operating systems we won't mention.

eddison

---

### Post by katykat on 2010-11-02
If you want a bit of stability and you use your system to support your  business, perhaps 10.04 (Lucid Lynx) would be a better choice.
----------------------------------------

I plan on installing Lucid soon and finishing up my website on it. 

But Meerkat is my system of choice, especially with an old nvidia card.
Last night in downloading from Usenet I filled up the hard drive WHILE it was in the middle of a Synaptic install. Things got a little flaky (as in no temp space to pull up a terminal) and it would NOT shut down right in the middle of an install. Had to to a hard power-off in the middle of a spinning disk. 

It rebooted, and I cleaned up the install and with no residual problems whatever. 

I come from Jaunty, where it would have hosed the system and cost me at least a weeks work. 

There are a few little bugs that i need to fix, but they are minor - especially compared to what I was used to.

---

### Post by nej_simon on 2010-11-02
> **Rellik Faros said:**
> What I can say without any doubt is that 10.10 has given me nothing but headaches since the day I started to install it as a dual boot on my laptop.  To begin with, when I first installed it in my computer, it placed the GRUB in the wrong location, meaning that when I turned on the computer, it would completely ignore the fact that there were two operating systems and just boot straight to Windows without any kind of multi-boot selection method.  It was easy enough to fix with some simple Terminal commands given to me by someone here on the forum, but it was still very frustrating since the problem was caused completely by the installer, and was in no way my fault.

Or, it was caused by the BIOS that didn't provide the OS/installer with a correct disk order. This is not uncommon and windows is affected as well.

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2010-11-02
> **coffeecat said:**
> I'm sorry the OP is having problems with 10.10 but it sounds like a specific hardware issue, so it's illogical for the OP to make such a blanket condemnation.[...]Agreed!

I started testing Maverick @ A1.  I couldn't get past Plymouth for 3 days, because of the 3rd party (nVidia) drivers.  But, I kept trying.  I didn't whine in the forums about what a POS 10.10 was...

I haven't had a single problem, since Beta.

When the final release came out, I wiped the partitions and did a fresh install.  

I think the OP has a hardware/driver issue, and he's compounding the problem(s) by doing constant restores.

If it was me, I'd wipe the install and start from scratch...

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2010-11-02
> **nej_simon said:**
> Or, it was caused by the BIOS that didn't provide the OS/installer with a correct disk order. This is not uncommon and windows is affected as well.

I am running 10.04 and Windows XP and during install Ubuntu listed sda as sdb. The physical/BIOS connections was sda as the first drive and that is the first in the order of how they are connected. One drive is an IDE connected to the first IDE slot and shows as the first drive in the BIOS. Ubuntu 9.10 correctly has this order. 10.04 swaps the first and second drives. Had I not known this I would have allowed grub to install on the second drive, though shown as sda in Ubuntu. I actually did this but it was a quick fix. The computer would not boot to grub. I could change the boot order in BIOS but feel Ubuntu should get it right. I have never had Windows make this error. It has always listed the first physical drive correctly. I have run as many as 6 hard drives on this desktop. Currently have only 2 with 2 DVD drives.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-11-03
> **VinDSL said:**
> ...When the final release came out, I wiped the partitions and did a fresh install.  
As already mentioned, I did a clean install.

> I think the OP has a hardware/driver issue, and he's compounding the problem(s) by doing constant restores.
As already mentioned, it's the SAME hardware as with 10.04 -- so if it IS a hardware issue, it's with 10.10 specifically -- and I'm NOT changing hardware just to run 10.10.

As to restores, I have not done even ONE restore -- where did you get that?  What I did, and what worked previously, was to select the Recovery option from the GRUB menu, restart the X-server, reboot -- and it was OK again.  Maybe you call that a "restore" -- I don't.  I do full image backups -- and when I replace the current install with them -- THAT's what I call a restore -- and I haven't done any of those with 10.10.

> If it was me, I'd wipe the install and start from scratch...
Guess you must have missed the part when I said the problem happened almost immediately -- BEFORE I had installed apps or done any customization.  So, if it crashes right after install from the CD, then it's going to do that AGAIN.

However ... that said, I did see a linked thread about reinstalling the ubuntu desktop -- which I'll try when I get a chance.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-11-03
I also wouldnt rule out the possibility of a hardware error. Have you checked your drive's smart status? At least two recent threads started by people having issues when or since upgrading to 10.10 turned out to be fried harddisks.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-11-03
I actually went back to 10.04 for a few reasons though none of them were "problems" with 10.10, I just prefer to use something more tested now I am no longer Linux noob who needs to update every 5 mins. :D

The Intel graphics in 10.10 are way faster for everything except a few games I play. (Which is a problem in the games).

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2010-11-03
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> As already mentioned, I did a clean install.[...]When I was testing Maverick, I noticed a trend in the threads.

Some credible users, albeit quirky (like [ranch hand]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=647614") claimed that 10.04 was "the worst version - ever!"  Never could get 10.04 to run correctly on his machine.  He claimed 10.10 was a major improvement.  Ran flawlessly...

There were other equally credible users that claimed the antitheses.  10.10 is a POS, but 10.04 runs flawlessly.

Personally, in my experience, they both run flawlessly.  10.04 seems to boot/run faster than 10.10 on this machine.  Other users have reported the opposite behavior.

All of this seems to be predicated on the hardware configuration of the user's PC.

I speculate that the vast majority of users are having no issues with either version.

Having said that, historically, .04 versions always trump .10 versions.

SOURCE:  [Ubuntu 10.10: Maverick Meerkat Benchmarked And Reviewed]("http://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/ubuntu-10-maverick-meerkat-linux,2774.html") (Tom's Hardware)

> We always look forward to Ubuntu's April releases. **[COLOR="Red"]Over the past few years, we've seen one great .04 version after another.[/COLOR]** Ubuntu 8.04 LTS (Hardy Heron) was one of the most hassle-free Linux distributions to launch, and as an LTS, it was supported for three years (it still is). With Hardy, Canonical built a great foundation for its emerging consumer-friendly Linux distro. In April of '09 Ubuntu 9.04 (Jaunty Jackalope) burst onto the scene with an overall snappy feel and unprecedented boot times. This past April, Canonical unleashed the current LTS, Ubuntu 10.04 LTS (Lucid Lynx). This release was a major hit. It's rock-solid, and the totally-revamped theme is still a league apart from any other Linux distro.
[B][COLOR="Red"]
While the April releases have been impressive and stable, October releases have typically been marred by various experience-killing issues: default applications too bleeding-edge, insufficiently tested components, hardware incompatibilities, and just outright bugginess.[/COLOR][/B] 

Ubuntu 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex) suffered graphical tearing with proprietary graphics drivers installed, along with crippling sound problems.**[COLOR="Red"] Ubuntu 9.10 (Karmic Koala) was possibly the worst Ubuntu build ever.[/COLOR]** Karmic didn't run properly on most of our test systems due to fatal crashes. And it took nearly a month just to get things stable enough to test. 9.10 also introduced several controversial replacements for default applications that polarized the community.

> We were beginning to wonder when we'd see Canonical pull off a successful .10 release; the past few Octobers have been pretty rough. **[COLOR="Red"]When looking solely at the Desktop Editions, Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick Meerkat is a mild success.[/COLOR]** Instead of using this October to experiment with half-baked software components, Canonical concentrated on refining the experience introduced in 10.04 LTS. **[COLOR="Red"]On the other hand, this also means there aren't any killer reasons to upgrade to 10.10 if you're already happy with 10.04 LTS.[/COLOR]**

**[COLOR="Red"]This really is a tough call.[/COLOR]** After all of the benchmarks and hands-on experience with Maverick Meerkat, we expected a concise thumbs up or thumbs down versus Lucid Lynx. Instead, what we have here is a mixed bag. Ubuntu 10.10 excels and falls short in an equal number of areas as 10.04 LTS. Therefore, our recommendation must also be a mixed bag.

**[COLOR="Red"]If you're currently using Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Lucid Lynx and everything works, it might be a good idea to leave your install alone.[/COLOR]** After running it for six months, we can tell you that Lucid is rock-solid. Only time will tell if 10.10 is as good, and we only had a week with it. [COLOR="Red"]**So, if reliability is ranked highly on your OS wish list, go with the LTS.**[/COLOR] But if you're experienced with Linux, or just the type who must have the very latest, there is nothing wrong with choosing Ubuntu 10.10, either. **[COLOR="Red"]It all comes down to the type of user you are.[/COLOR]** 

It looks like you have a .04 machine, e.g. it's .10 adverse.  LoL!

If 10.04 is working for you, I'd suggest sticking with it, until 11.04 is released...  ;)

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-11-03
Might be true. Though I liked Versions 7.10 and 8.10, Hardy 8.04 had a lot of sound issue for me (fixed by .1). 8.10 was if anything my favorite release. Though I think 9.04 was fantastic. Booted faster than anything. Might be something to this 04 > 10 thing. :D

---

### Post by interval1066 on 2010-11-03
Using 10.04 here. No issues. Don't know about 10.10, not too sure I need to right now.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-11-03
> **kirkface8 said:**
> solved your problem op
assuming your problem was the same as mine

Thank You! Thank You!  Thank You!

I don't know if mine was the same problem ... but reinstalling the desktop fixed it for me.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-11-03
> **P4man said:**
> I also wouldnt rule out the possibility of a hardware error. Have you checked your drive's smart status? At least two recent threads started by people having issues when or since upgrading to 10.10 turned out to be fried harddisks.

Good point .. if it weren't for the fact that, since I've gone back to 10.04, once again, I've had no problems at all.

Also ... reinstalling ubuntu-desktop really did appear to fix the problem!

---

### Post by seenthelite on 2010-11-03
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> Good point .. if it weren't for the fact that, since I've gone back to 10.04, once again, I've had no problems at all.
 
Also ... reinstalling ubuntu-desktop really did appear to fix the problem!
 
I hope you have resolved your problem, if you had followed [these ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422475")guidelines especially item 4 regarding the title of your thread you would have got the same result. Maybe faster. :)

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2010-11-03
> **seenthelite said:**
> I hope you have resolved your problem, if you had followed [these ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422475")guidelines especially [COLOR="Red"]item 4[/COLOR] regarding the tittle of your thread you would have got the same result. Maybe faster. :)Not to mention, item 12...  ;)

---

### Post by cacycleworks on 2010-11-04
FWIW: one of my employees had their 10.10 install die. Wouldn't finish booting. I got the command line and apt wouldn't work. I didn't search or anything, just reinstalled from USB. And was sure to turn off updates. Since I leave /home on its own partition, I didn't waste much time with it.

NOW... I can't get 10.10 to install on a test system. It won't boot 10.10 desktop from USB nor 10.10 alt from USB. I'll go find a 10.04 cd and try that. A few minutes of google'ing and I realized adopting 10.10 was a mistake for me and my business. So we'll stick with 10.04 where already installed. 

And we never upgrade servers until we install new ones. They just run forever...

:) Chris

---

### Post by ezsit on 2010-11-05
I read that article in Tom's Hardware and it made me think of all my previous Ubuntu experiences. The October releases were far better on my hardware than any of the April releases. From 5.10 through 9.10, each October release ran perfectly on my computers and I had none of the problems others were complaining about. I tried the 6.06, 8.04, and 10.04 releases and each one gave me problems, either graphics, sound, networking, something went wrong on each of those April releases.

Now we get to 10.10, so far its better than 10.04 was on release day. However, now that we have 10.04.1, that has become very stable and quick, probably the best experience so far. 10.10 is OK, but I can't stand the theme changes they made, and Brasero won't work at all for me 10.10. So, One machine has 10.04.1 and the other still has 9.10 (and that is still my favorite release and I don't care what anybody says about 9.10).

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2010-11-05
> **ezsit said:**
> I read that article in Tom's Hardware and it made me think of all my previous Ubuntu experiences.

I read that article in Tom's Hardware and it made me think that Tom needs to get some new hardware. :|

---

### Post by ventrical on 2010-11-05
> **ezsit said:**
> I read that article in Tom's Hardware and it made me think of all my previous Ubuntu experiences. The October releases were far better on my hardware than any of the April releases. From 5.10 through 9.10, each October release ran perfectly on my computers and I had none of the problems others were complaining about. I tried the 6.06, 8.04, and 10.04 releases and each one gave me problems, either graphics, sound, networking, something went wrong on each of those April releases.

Now we get to 10.10, so far its better than 10.04 was on release day. However, now that we have 10.04.1, that has become very stable and quick, probably the best experience so far. 10.10 is OK, but I can't stand the theme changes they made, and Brasero won't work at all for me 10.10. So, One machine has 10.04.1 and the other still has 9.10 (and that is still my favorite release and I don't care what anybody says about 9.10).


Yeah .. I like the karmic theme and it works good on some PCs.

But I have run 10.10 on all my machines .. even as slow as a Compaq 500MHz with 382MBSDRAM and it keeps getting tamer and tamer.  But I am used to the 10.4 version because it just seems to be more stable. (I finally got a stable ISO from a solid secure site.)

  So , what I mean to say is that I can take an HDD with 10.10 OS connected to a USB to IDE cable converter and run in on any machine using PLOP boot disk and/or straight boot from BIOS USB.

  But I had problems at first too.

---

### Post by chinaski on 2010-11-05
> **dcstar said:**
> 10.10 will be no different to any other Ubuntu release, some people will have issues with their particular hardware, some won't.
wait because 10.10 brings an enormous compatibility issue with many nVidia graphic cards (I have a 8400 GS and got blank screen after fresh Ubuntu 10.10 install)

this is very bad as Ubuntu forums, nVidia forums and the whole internet are full of users facing the blank screen

I temporarily fixed this issue by installing version 173 of nVidia drivers through Ubuntu driver manager

now I don't know if this problem is due to Linux, nVidia or Xorg and I don't care, all I am wondering is: if a fix is possible, when will it be available?

I remember a similar issue back in time, don't remember which Ubuntu version was, but I do remember that after a Xorg upgrade you get blank screen

well it took 6 hours (six times sixty minutes...) to the community to fix the issue, this time instead after everal days no light to be seen yet, apart from nVidia driver version 173 now compatible.....

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2010-11-06
Hi

Am i the only one who has had no problems with any version of Ubuntu i've ever tried? Currently using natty with no problems. I'm beginning to think my laptop has super powers. (Acer).

Kind regards

---

### Post by akand074 on 2010-11-06
> **matt_symes said:**
> Hi

Am i the only one who has had no problems with any version of Ubuntu i've ever tried? Currently using natty with no problems. I'm beginning to think my laptop has super powers. (Acer).

Kind regards

I haven't had any problems either. I do upgrade my hardware pretty often though. Still. All new releases I find slightly buggy but seems to stabilize itself. Don't upgrade if your not willing to deal with possible issues. The thread name is "10.10 really IS the worst version -- ever!". I hate when people do that, it should be something like "10.10 is the worst version for ME -- ever!" if he really wants to complain. Don't speak for everyone.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2010-11-06
hi

Just to clarify. I have a multiple boot with 10.04 as my _stable_ version but i'm currently using natty. No problems with any version i've tried.

Kind regads

---

### Post by ventrical on 2010-11-06
> **matt_symes said:**
> Hi

Am i the only one who has had no problems with any version of Ubuntu i've ever tried? Currently using natty with no problems. I'm beginning to think my laptop has super powers. (Acer).

Kind regards

YES !!:)   Acers do have super powers .. :) especially using Ubuntu or Fedora. I got the same thing with  an Acer Aspire 3620 Laptop,1.5GHz 512MB-. It will run practically anything Linux distros have to offer it. And to think this laptop was scheduled for the scrapbin ! And I think I may  commit that PC to a full 10.10 install.. wiping out a perfectly good genuine XP install. from the HDD.

---

### Post by Goku34 on 2010-11-06
Maybe you guys don't know how to use Ubuntu. I never had a problem with my Ubuntu 10.04 and Ubuntu 10.10. Maybe its your computer. The only time I had to wipe my whole computer is when a new version comes out.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-11-06
mark, You are not a n00b,
why create such a n00b thread? 

 10.10 is the best ever! 

 dont act like such a noob! lol

---

### Post by cgroza on 2010-11-06
There are plenty of people like "ohh, it sucks so bad". Why don't you do something about it? You didn't pay for it, you didn't worked for it, you didn't contributed. Stop whining.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2010-11-06
> **Goku34 said:**
> Maybe you guys don't know how to use Ubuntu. I never had a problem with my Ubuntu 10.04 and Ubuntu 10.10. Maybe its your computer. The only time I had to wipe my whole computer is when a new version comes out.

I was talking about Windows XP .. wiping out that install.... er .. nevermind..

---

### Post by phredbull on 2010-11-06
> **cgroza said:**
> You didn't pay for it, you didn't worked for it, you didn't contributed. Stop whining.
Want a free poke in the eye w/a sharp stick?
I think putting in hours of troubleshooting and research counts as "working for it."
OP has lots o' beans, he has obviously contributed to this community.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2010-11-06
Thanks for sharing. Thread closed

---

