---
title: "Put 12.04 back on my laptop."
date: 2012-10-26
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by exploder on 2012-10-26
I had 12.10 installed on my HP DV6 laptop but tonight I decided to go back to 12,04. Originally I had problems with my ATI discrete graphics but an update to Jockey seems to have the drivers installed and working fine now.

12.04 is just quicker and MyUnity is available for it. I have everything looking just the way I want it, the graphics are working fine, memory use is better and the system is a lot more responsive.

I like some of the new features in 12.10 but the LTS just runs so much better.

---

### Post by offgridguy on 2012-10-26
There are also a lot of issues regarding problems with 12.10 in this forum as well,  thats enough reason for me to stay away from it.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-10-27
> **offgridguy said:**
> There are also a lot of issues regarding problems with 12.10 in this forum as well,  thats enough reason for me to stay away from it.

@Offgridguy: You've obviously not been around for very long. No offence.

Every release of Ubuntu is heralded by a flood of user gripes that "This is the most unstable Ubuntu ever!" or "Now that they've changed xyz, this is getting away from the spirit of Linux/too commercial" or "I'm moving to Arch!". Meanwhile, the quiet masses enjoy their new version of Ubuntu, which they are having little/no trouble with.

Literally every version has had this; even the well-loved Ubuntu 10.04 was "the worst Ubuntu yet" when it came out, not least because of the super-controvercial decision to change the default wallpaper and move some buttons.

Try 12.10 and most likely you'll have no problems.

---

### Post by exploder on 2012-10-27
I can't say I had any real problems with 12.10, it was just kind of slow. Hopefully, updates over time will speed 12.10 up. I just like 12.04 and the length of support and am glad the issue with my ATI graphics got sorted out.

Don't get me wrong, I see good things in the new release and even more things coming. A lot of people are running the new release and liking it. The LTS just happens to be at a point where everything works perfect for me and MyUnity has everything looking just the way I like.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2012-10-27
Personally, I like that Ubuntu has LTS releases. Some people like the 6 month releases. I like having the choice. Even though 12.04 will be supported for 5 years, I will probably upgrade when 14.04.01 is released. I will be running the 6 month releases in VirtualBox on my laptop so I uderstand what people are excited about or complaining about. Unfortunatly, my laptop has a quad-core and 5.7GiB of RAM so I don't experience the slowness you mention. With 12.10 running as a VM on a 12.04 host OS, I'm using 1.6GiB of RAM and 7% CPU or less on each of the 4 cores.

---

### Post by exploder on 2012-10-27
My laptop has a quad core processor but it ran noticeably slower on 12.10. The LTS is running well since an upgrade to Jockey and probably a few other things. I have the LTS installed on 3 desktops with NVidea graphics and am very happy with how these computers are running.

I will probably do a clean install of the next LTS release when it arrives. I have always had good luck with the LTS releases and Unity should be much better and more refined when the next LTS rolls around. 

A new icon theme and other graphical refinements are in the works, 14.04 should be really nice.

---

