---
title: "8.10 has really impressed me."
date: 2009-01-15
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by drjonze on 2009-01-15
I had been running 8.04 on my laptop before - that was my first Ubuntu or Linux experience. I really liked it but my machine would freeze up and I'd have to hard boot. I couldn't get that fixed, I suspected it was just some linux-unfriendly hardware in my laptop, so I had to give up. I've since bought a new desktop and had heard Ibex was out so I figured I'd test it on my old laptop - and it has been solid as a rock. I did all the things that would lock up my machine under Hardy but it never gave me a problem. 

I've since installed Ibex on my new PC and I think I have effectively made the complete switch. I'll keep Vista, I do still need it for one or two things but that will be infrequent.

I can say that I had the 'works out-of-the-box' experience wth both my machines running Ibex. 

Its great to be back!

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-01-15
> **drjonze said:**
> I really liked it but my machine would freeze up and I'd have to hard boot. I couldn't get that fixed, I suspected it was just some linux-unfriendly hardware in my laptop...

This always reminds me of calling my ISP when DSL and Cable were new to the area where I grew up and having them tell me my connection is down because of my computer.  It was always my computer, until someone finally admits service was out because some retard didn't hook the nodes up properly.  

I know there are hardware issues with Linux, but I hesitate to blame every problem on hardware incompatibilities, or the evil hardware manufacturers who won't make drivers.  Sometimes, I think it's just Ubuntu.  

Nobody believes me, though....  :P

> **drjonze said:**
> 
I've since installed Ibex on my new PC and I think I have effectively made the complete switch. I'll keep Vista, I do still need it for one or two things but that will be infrequent.

I can say that I had the 'works out-of-the-box' experience wth both my machines running Ibex. 

Its great to be back!

Glad things are working for ya.  It's nice to read posts like yours.  Admitting problems, but taking the time to sort them out, and fixing them in the end.  You're not flaming, and you're not groveling...just an honest experience.  

It's refreshing.  :)

Cheers!

---

### Post by drjonze on 2009-01-15
```
I know there are hardware issues with Linux, but I hesitate to blame every problem on hardware incompatibilities, or the evil hardware manufacturers who won't make drivers. Sometimes, I think it's just Ubuntu.
```

I think in my case you'd be right. Clearly the hardware is not an issue, its running 8.10 like a charm. It looks like its just something about 8.04 - they just didn't get along.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2009-01-15
> **jrock612 said:**
> Sometimes, I think it's just Ubuntu.  



i've had a few experiences where windows would not play nice no matter what. and this was after fresh installs. guess what? ubuntu worked great on them. problems are OS independent. every computer can experience them no matter what OS. no software is perfect, no hardware is perfect. 

to drjonze, glad to hear it is working out for you.

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-01-16
> **wolfen69 said:**
> no software is perfect, no hardware is perfect. 


My point, in a nutshell.  :)

---

### Post by lancest on 2009-01-16
It's a good idea to keep Windows around just for testing hardware to compare vs Ubuntu. Often it's useful in getting at the problem. For example I have a cheap Sis card in my school pc. It's performance really sucks in both systems so I know it's surely the hardware quality.

---

