---
title: "10.04 - a few weeks in"
date: 2010-05-14
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Warthaug on 2010-05-14
I've been using ubuntu 10.04 since it was available, but I've held off with reviews/complaints until there were a few weeks to get things straightened out.

I'm a scientific user, and do a lot of matlab on my PC.  I would also add as a cavete that I'm using a laptop with one of those intel chipsets that traditionally didn't get along well with openGL and compiz...

**Install:**
As per usual, install was easy.  Enter a bit of info, select a few options, and go have a coffee.  Including the time it took to move the minimize/maximize buttons back to where they should be, I had things up an running in ~20min.

I began installing programs from the repositories - a little slow, but that was likely due to the fact it was day 1 of the release and everyone was doing it.  This is where I hit my first glitch - after a reboot I ended up stuck in an infinite loop of login screens; I simply could not advance past the login screen.  As described [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1465837"), this appears to be a graphics card issue.  The fix was easy - turn on auto-login.

I had a few other issues, none due to ubuntu itself: the backup of my virtualbox WinXP was corrupt, so I had to rebuild it from scratch, for example.

**Problems After Updates:**
The first "real" problems I ran into were after the first update.  For some reason installing the updates screwed up a few programs - notably CUPS and BOINC.  Luckily, the fix was nothing more than reconfiguring both, but it was an irritation - and completely out of character for ubuntu (at least in my experience).

**Performance:**
The last time I upgraded (8.? -> 9.10) I actually had an improvement in performance; some of the more greedy matlab routines were running 5-10% faster than they did in the older install.  I did not see any improvement this time, but benchmarks are dead on where 9.10 was (i.e. performance has not been lost).  The improvement in startup and shutdown times are really noticeable, although this has the downside of highlighting just how slow startup/shutdown is on other computers I use.

It may be my imagination, but I find the desktop to be a little faster than before.  Minimizing/maximizing and the programs menu always had a bit of a delay between clicking and responding, and that now seems to be gone.  Other than that I cannot say I've noticed much in terms of performance.

**Issues:**
Aside from the issues mentioned above, I have run into a few minor issues:
1) [Full-screen mode doesn't work properly in impress]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1474754").  This can be worked around, but is irritating.
2) I cannot seem to re-name the link to our work server under my "Places" menu.  I did it in the past, but now it doesn't work.
3) I am not a fan of the "social view" setup.  I realize this appeals to a certain segment of the market, but I have no need of the Away/Busy marker on the session info button, nor do I need the mail link on the notification bar.  As far as I can see, there is no way to selectively remove those elements without outright removing the notification area and session button.  It would be nice to have a greater degree of control over these areas.

**Overall:**
Overall, I am very impressed.  Good system, though be it with a few minor bugs.  But in terms of the the main things for me - stability and speed - ubuntu has done very well.

Oh, and since I forgot, this version of ubuntu seems to have fixed the bugs my chipset was having with compiz and openGL...

Bryan

---

### Post by Oliv' on 2010-05-15
I strongly agree with 3) !!!!!!

---

### Post by Ms_Angel_D on 2010-05-15
Warthaug, thanks so much for your feedback, if need support for those troubled area's don't hesitate to use the support sections of the forums.

Angel

---

