---
title: "9.10 + Chrome + Thunderbird3 = WIN!"
date: 2009-12-10
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by zaphod777 on 2009-12-10
I have been using Ubuntu on and off for a few years now watching each version get better and better.

I even ran it on my work laptop for a while but had to use too much proprietary software since we were a Microsoft shop.

Now I am running 9.10 on my Home laptop. It was running Windows7 but I got tired of the BSOD everyday because I couldn't find updated audio drivers.

Most of the small annoyances I had before seam to have all but gone.

9.10 isn't quite so ugly out the gate and was able to get a nice look using built in themes and wallpapers in 1 min. Before I would spend hours tweaking icons and themes to get it just right.

Never really liked evolution and now Thunderbird looks awesome.

Chrome is now out and flash seams to be really stable rather than the x64 Firefox plugin. Plus it runs supper fast and looks nice.

Weird MIC and sound issues are gone in the latest Skype.

Even Songbird has come along far enough to a great replacement for ITunes now that I have an Android phone my ipod sits in the drawer.

Even some of the bluetooth issues are gone. 

I can't wait to see what the next release comes up with.

A few things on my list to get changed are:

1. Improve the overall default theme it's come a long way but still needs improvement.
2. 802.11n doesn't seam to work due to HT (high throughput not being enabled in the compiled Kernel).

Thats about all I can think of!

I can't wait to see what you guys come up with next.

---

