---
title: "7.10 so much more stable then 8.04"
date: 2008-05-04
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by nacho32 on 2008-05-04
Im by no a way a linux pro, but in comparing the 2 ,,710 hands down. As far I I'm concerned 8.04 should have never left beta. 7.10 rocks ,,,:)


just my 2 cents

---

### Post by CharmCityCrab on 2008-05-05
One of the cool things about Ubuntu is that if you don't like a given release, you can just stick with the one previous and wait another six months for a new one.

My personal experience has been that 8.04 was worked a lot better than 7.x, though.  It's not perfect, I do have some bugs and issues, but I was able to get a couple of key things working with 8 that I never could with 7 -- it's getting a lot closer to being a really usable OS for me.

---

### Post by Oldsoldier2003 on 2008-05-05
> **CharmCityCrab said:**
> One of the cool things about Ubuntu is that if you don't like a given release, you can just stick with the one previous and wait another six months for a new one.

My personal experience has been that 8.04 was worked a lot better than 7.x, though.  It's not perfect, I do have some bugs and issues, but I was able to get a couple of key things working with 8 that I never could with 7 -- it's getting a lot closer to being a really usable OS for me.

once you get through the assorted glitches and get hardy set up it works just fine. personally i like Ubuntu because i like the fast release cycle. on my production machines i run Debian Etch though. rock solid and no issues.

---

