---
title: "11.04 is beautiful."
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by StarZtorm on 2011-04-28
That was my first impression, and that impression still holds true. Where the 10.10 netbook remix seemed a little glitchy (bluetooth on, when it was in fact off, icons jumping back and forth, sidebar acting up sometimes etc), Natty Narwhal seems to be rock solid. 

Its beautiful. The colors, icons, everything so far just feels great.

Thanks.

---

### Post by WRDN on 2011-04-28
I would question the "rock solid" comment. Bugs still exist in Unity, but compared to what it was at Beta 1, it is amazing what the developers have achieved in such a small amount of time.

Playing with Unity today, it appears to be mostly stable, but there are still some problems when trying to configure Compiz settings, and sometimes it appears mouse clicks are not registered.
That said, after playing with it, I really like Unity and think it has a great future.

Glad you like it :)

---

### Post by TrevP on 2011-04-29
> **StarZtorm said:**
> That was my first impression, and that impression still holds true. Where the 10.10 netbook remix seemed a little glitchy (bluetooth on, when it was in fact off, icons jumping back and forth, sidebar acting up sometimes etc), Natty Narwhal seems to be rock solid. 

Its beautiful. The colors, icons, everything so far just feels great.

Thanks.

I've got to say that I agree with you on this. Before the release of 11.04, I tried out the 10.10 netbook version and found that it was slow and buggy. However, I liked the concept of the interface so it convinced me to upgrade (with some trepidation).

I've now installed Natty and so far I am extremely impressed! As you say, it looks beautiful, the upgrade went very smoothly and all of the niggles I found with the previous netbook version appear to have been addressed. The interface is running very quickly and smoothly (and I am using the open source experimental drivers with an nvidia graphics card). Well done to the development team at Ubuntu!

---

