---
title: "11.10, not friendly won't upgrade ubuntu again"
date: 2011-11-04
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by choochoousmc on 2011-11-04
They say "if it ain't broke, don't fix it!"  Well the journey started, now looping back...
I don't like Bill Gates, Windows and his way of doing things, it got worse as time went by.
Windows took control away from you the operator.
So I found Ubuntu 2 years ago. 10.04 worked great but would not run my scanner
so I upgraded to 10.10  same thing. So I kept a windows machine and some flash drives on hand . Did my scanning on windows and copied over. PIA!   but we learned IAO long time ago.
Along comes 11.04.  Upgraded to it and VOILA my scanner worked.

About two months later neither of my Seagate freeagents would mount. Both formatted NTFS and both 350gig.    NEVER FOUND OUT WHY!  well now some new reading, the developers have made some changes so NTFS isn't as reliable as before. D/Ling ntfs-3g and ntfs-config, created other problems. Never did get the USB external drives to work.
so along come 11.10.
I thought maybe if I do a complete fresh install, instead of an upgrade things would be fixed.
WRONG!!!!!!
The worse Ubuntu upgrade ever!!
My main HD  35 gig for Ubuntu   ext 4    135 gig for data  NTFS (need windows compatibility)
UBUNTU formatted it READ ONLY with no inhouse simple way to correct it.
Ubuntu refuses to let the administrator have the power to correct these things, so why have a GUI app to change user and administrator folder, file, drive access priviledges you can't change them!! Unless you are a guru and use the terminal
I finally got it corrected.   But the process of that or the Gnome Session Fallback created another problem.
CRASHED UBUNTU startup. UBUNTU would no longer start period.
So out comes the live Cd again.  Now will go back to 10.10 or maybe 11.04

Also UNITY for the most part sucks.  It is not intuitive, too many mouse clicks to find the program you want, then it lists EVERYTHING all on the screen. You either scroll through the whole damn list, or if you KNOW what type of program it is (accessibility, accessory, file system, etc) you filter it.

The old dropdown menu was better.Yes you still needed to basically know  applications, places, or system.  But when you got there, the only thing showing was what was related. I'd venture 9 out of ten operations required a application. Not all the other things.
Plus I have not found a way yet to place a shortcut on the desktop of the things I use most and just click on them. But then I gave up on UNITY
Truecrypt before 11.10 and 11.04 unity.
You opened it, control panel popped up, selected the file container you wanted to mount. Mounted, selected exit and a icon appeared in the upper menu bar. Need to dismount or mount another, click the icon and do it.
NOT IN THE UNITY desktop. If you exit the window, you can't get back to it.  Reclicking truecrypt just warns you it's already running. So that is a big BOOBOO in the upgrade
Still haven't found the screen saver, but then I gave up.

Also even with a complete fresh install Ubuntu reformats the WHOLE drive, when all it needs is the prior partition that it was in. which causes you to have to manually reconfigure the drive again.
Tried the MANUAL "other" during install, but kept saying no BOOT partition or table.
Had to go back to the auto install.

AND during install 11.10 does not give you an option to use the classic desktop.
Getting to be as bad as  Bill Gates and Windows. Do it my way or not at all.  Unless you are a Linux guru and know all the terminal commands.

Only good thing is it is free.  But what a PIA!
So nope, won't be no more upgrades for me. I have now lost three days of productivity and am still going backwards just to do a upgrade.
The developers fixed things that weren't broke.[And I still don't have the necessary  and much needed USB Hard drives up and running, because apparently no one here knows how either. They gave suggestions but either they did not work, or created other problems. Don't have time for this!
Those of you that have at least tried to help Thanks.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-11-04
Moved to Ubuntu Testimonials & Experiences.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-11-05
> **choochoousmc said:**
> 
...But the process of that or the Gnome Session Fallback created another problem....AND during install 11.10 does not give you an option to use the classic desktop.

Ubuntu has never given you an option of desktop environment during install. Never. It's up to the user to install a different one should they want it - and it's very easy to do.

> Also UNITY for the most part sucks.  It is not intuitive, too many mouse clicks to find the program you want

Intuitive == "not like the previous desktop environment I learned".

I've put virtual beginners in front of Unity and they've been fine.

> Plus I have not found a way yet to place a shortcut on the desktop of the things I use most and just click on them.

Put them into the place that's actually made for that? The Desktop folder is not intended for program launchers. The Unity sidebar Launcher is.

> Truecrypt before 11.10 and 11.04 unity.
You opened it, control panel popped up, selected the file container you wanted to mount. Mounted, selected exit and a icon appeared in the upper menu bar. Need to dismount or mount another, click the icon and do it.
NOT IN THE UNITY desktop. If you exit the window, you can't get back to it.  Reclicking truecrypt just warns you it's already running. So that is a big BOOBOO in the upgrade

That's Truecrypt's fault for still using the old Notification Area API. It's been depreciated for two years because of inconsistency issues; the Indicators are now the recommended API for developers to use for this.

The problem with the notification area, for users, is that you never really know what will happen when you click on an icon. Will it show a window or a menu? Will clicking just make the icon disappear? When you show a menu, will it be drawn with GTK or Qt?

Indicators fix these problems. If a program still hasn't been updated in two years to use Indicators, then it's not Ubuntu's fault.

> Also even with a complete fresh install Ubuntu reformats the WHOLE drive

No, it doesn't. Unless you tell it to.

Unity is fine. It's different to what you're used to. You probably needed some more time to really make the most of its design.

Linux won't reach 2% market share with Gnome 2, sorry to say. With more Unity development it can take 20% market share. Almost.

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-05
But you have to admit that by using Ubuntu you have the feeling, YOU created this OS. After all these tweaks and problems to solve, you stay with this special sensation of the good mechanic, which is priceless. When you install Win 7, you just follow the instructions, download the drivers and that's about it, you have a computer working. With Ubuntu every installation is an adventure. I keep a computer just for it. To install and reinstall Ubuntu. Every time I confront a different problem but this is the good part. To play with something really challenging.

---

### Post by piddewest on 2011-11-05
> **BillyBoa said:**
> But you have to admit that by using Ubuntu you have the feeling, YOU created this OS. After all these tweaks and problems to solve, you stay with this special sensation of the good mechanic, which is priceless. When you install Win 7, you just follow the instructions, download the drivers and that's about it, you have a computer working. With Ubuntu every installation is an adventure. I keep a computer just for it. To install and reinstall Ubuntu. Every time I confront a different problem but this is the good part. To play with something really challenging.

Hehe well maybe linux users likes challenges?

I must say...Infact im quite boored when i have done the installation of Ubuntu...nothing to do until some hardware chrashes... unlike windows....if you dont mess something up yourself...the windows operating system will fix that for you, just a matter of time.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-11-05
> **3rdalbum said:**
> 

Linux won't reach 2% market share with Gnome 2, sorry to say. With more Unity development it can take 20% market share. Almost.

Look, I am quite happy with Unity myself and have said that I am getting a bit tired of the endless Unity bashing threads. But on the flip side I really have a problem with this kind of hyperbole. Is there any market research data to back up your claim? 

I don't know how to increase market share to 20% but I am quite sure that ignoring and dismissing your core users is not the way to do it. I don't care for the two panel thingy and the gnome2 interface but if you check launchpad even very mild suggestions for configuration and usability options for Unity are shot down out of hand on some "design" ground. I think "design" should work for users, not that the users have to work around to fit the design. Meanwhile, open source being open, third party tweaks are appearing that make Unity a lot more usable, but why should the user have to enable 30 ppas just so that  he can do basic configuring tasks?

I also have an issue with the oft bandied about statement that Unity is more friendly to the "average user" (TM), that it is only the "power user" that it appears to be counter intuitive. Again I want to see data for that. I think most average users would be more used to point and click than keyboard and search, unless by "average" they mean the lowest common denominator,--people who use the computer only to check email, go on facebook and watch porn. For such users all they need is a big button for Firefox, they can use any OS and it wouldn't make a difference, --so Unity wouldn't be more or less intuitive than gnome 2. 

Yeah, actually if they only go online for social networking and  watching porn ubuntu would be a poor choice because of on and off problems with flash and things like MSN and facebook videos are not supported in Linux, so it is pointless to cater to such users, Linux loses without even starting.

(Now with gnome 3 it is taken even a step further, even to change theme you would have to install the gnome-tweak-tool. Are you serious? Even the lowest denominator users of Windows take that for granted. But as of ubuntu 11.10 you can't do it, and "average user" probably wouldn't know anything about the gnome-tweak-tool)

---

### Post by bluexrider on 2011-11-05
I agree with the post #1

Waiting for LinuxMint 12

:popcorn:

---

### Post by werewolves on 2011-11-05
> Getting to be as bad as Bill Gates and Windows. Do it my way or not at all.

Yep, makes sense.  You should go back to Windows where you have the choice to install any number of alternate desktops with a few simple commands... oh, wait...

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-11-07
> **choochoousmc said:**
> Ubuntu refuses to let the administrator have the power to correct these things, so why have a GUI app to change user and administrator folder, file, drive access priviledges you can't change them!! Unless you are a guru and use the terminal

 
that's beenthe "issue" of Gnome. that is that it should have s little configurations options as possible in the GUI so it doens't confuse the beginner users.
 
If you like doing things via GUI (i do, afterall this isn't the 1980's) i would recomend KDE (Kubuntu) where a lot of setup is done via GUI. Also it doesn't have any Unity issues. Unity and Gnome 3 under it are much younger (both are part of new Ubuntu) than KDE4.x is. KDE 4.x more or less solved it's initial issues and bugs.

---

### Post by mmeadway on 2011-11-07
I have to say that I agree with some of your sentiments, but on the other hand I think Unity is fixable, IF developers can see the forest for the trees.  This is going to be a rant, so be forewarned :-)

I've been in software 30 years, much of it specializing in search engines (yes, they existed before Google and Altavista).  Over that time, two things have been hammered into me:  Give users what they NEED (not necessarily what they want), and never become seduced by technology.  The latter point is perhaps better described as "never forget that computers are a tool, not an end in themselves."  In search engines especially, one is faced with the fact that users don't give too many hints about what they want; a two-word search just does not have that much context.  On the other hand, it can be shown that when you enter two words, you're looking for documents that contain those two words next to or very close to each other.  Surprisingly, no commercial search engine seems to work that way, despite mounds of studies that suggest they should.  In short, give users what they NEED.  Secondly, those people who use computers as a tool just want the bloody things to work, not to be "helpful" or even stylish; we all hate microwave ovens that say "enjoy your meal" after failing to heat the food evenly.  Yes, some technologies happen to be aesthetically pleasing (the GUI), but that's a side-effect of getting the job done in an elegant fashion.  Nearly every software vendor seems to have forgotten this.  IBM spent a fortune researching human-computer interaction, and much of the resulting documentation is freely available.  It's very much worth reading, and I wish modern UI writers would do so.

Ubuntu is ostensibly a desktop distribution meant for people who otherwise find Linux forbiddingly complex, with the dreaded command line placed front and center as the villain.  Frankly, most people I know have used older MS-DOS machines, and have no trouble typing.  They aren't bothered by learning a few commands, and once they understand the design philosophy, they navigate around a command line just fine.  That said, if you are building a desktop distribution, some things must absolutely be done (in order of urgency):

1) The screen has to work on an upgrade or a fresh install, with or without a newer monitor.  Having a blank screen or "Signal Out Of Range" pop up on a new LCD monitor is completely unacceptable.  In my case, on no less than five totally different computers, all of which ran perfectly with previous versions.
2) You have to be able to customize the user interface so that people can organize it to reflect the way they work, not the way you wish they would.  And, there is no reason to require 3D; write code to live within the cycles of the platform.  A lot of us ditched Microsoft for good when Vista came out and would refuse to install on perfectly good hardware.  Is it so much to ask for a GUI that lets you choose how you want to organize things?  I don't use my computer the way my wife or my kids do; I shouldn't have to take hours to customize it for them so they can get things done.
3) Devices that have worked perfectly for a long time can't suddenly go AWOL.  This means things like older HP printers, USB serial port adapters, broadband modems, etc..
4) A perfectly ordinary, widely-used sound chipset should be supported without hassles, and multiple sound cards should also work without hassles.

Fix these items in Ubuntu 11.10, and it would be a wonderful system. There is one thing I do like about Ubuntu 11.10, and that is far less screen clutter; I can have everything move out of the way.  I detest software that spends more screen real estate on menus, toolbars and other crud, leaving me with a tiny workspace in the middle.  For heaven's sake people, design software as if it had to run on a 256x256 display in monochrome.  Lest you think that is impossible, fire up an old Mac and enjoy.  One other item I do like is that Ubuntu gives you an easy way to choose to install non-free software or restricted software.  I wish Fedora was as easy to set up in that fashion, and it's one reason I've put up with 11.10 for the time being.  The third item I like -- but which needs improvement -- is the app search function.  Give me the same ability as I have in Synaptic (search for applications by keyword with the results in a list, and allow restriction by category), and I'd be a happy camper.

Above all, Canonical and others need to remember that a computer is a tool, and the operating environment is there for support and consistency, not to be a monster that gobbles system resources, breaks menu bars, hides things in obscure places, or refuses to work just because your monitor is five years old but your graphics card is not.  Did I mention a silent sound system because the hardware detection system can't seem to properly identify a Creative Sound Blaster PCI, and a built-in NVidia chipset?  Both of which are hardly undocumented hardware?

I'm a developer and a musician, so I use computers for two very different things, and under two hats (developer vs. user).  When a system frustrates me in both worlds, I tend to dump it, which is why I stopped with Windows XP (Vista is a disaster, and Windows 7 was too little too late).  Same with Apple's iOS because of the unfortunate decision to disallow Flash on the iPhone (always give the customer what they NEED).  Don't even get me started on Windows Mobile.  The latest Ubuntu had me looking for alternatives thanks to the inability to get anything to show on the screen, and Red Hat got some of my business as a result.  That's unfortunate, since I think highly of Canonical.  But as you point out, some things have got to be fixed before Ubuntu can again claim to be a distribution that Grandma can install.

So I think you have good points, but I also think that Unity can be fixed, and on a relatively short timeline.  Frankly, I think developers have to spend time with their target audience, notepad in hand (use a pencil guys, it might remind you of a few things), and find out what they like or don't like.  That's how great software that makes users happy gets made (even if the magazine pundits hate it).

So, there's my $0.02 for the day :-)

Mike

---

### Post by mmeadway on 2011-11-07
@beew:

I think the points you make have got to be repeated as often as possible, and I could not agree more about the settings problem.

I had to dig through the Gnome settings database to find anything at all that I could tweak on Unity, and even that was pretty sparse.

Above all, I see absolutely no reason why we can't have customizable shells that have several different "modes", where each mode represents a look and feel.  For example, one group might cause Gnome to behave like a previous version, while another would give you the latest Unity.  We used to do this with window managers; I even had a window manager that made the desktop behave like an Amiga.  Why can't we do this with the Gnome interface, and thereby expand our audience?

I also agree about the nonsensical "market share" stuff.  Good grief...after one has seen the endless array of "studies" sponsored by one company after another to show that their product is on top of the heap, do we really need to go down that road?  Let's concentrate on finding out what people actually want, and deliver that to them.  That's the real way to get "market share", whatever that actually means.

Again, why not have a completely configurable desktop?  We can then satisfy a lot more people, and being open source, it means that someone who wants a totally different setup will have the framework to do it.  If the original window managers could be written this way, why not Gnome?

Mike

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2011-11-07
> mmeadway
That's the real way to get "market share", whatever that actually means.

Perhaps  one might consider the relationship between a hardware company (say one  like Asus) & Canonical prior to any discussion of Ubuntu's future.  I'd suggest any user whose interested in the direction of Ubuntu,  investigate the link between these  companies. Especially, over the last  couple of years - think netbooks & tablets.

When purchasing a  new netbook or tablet the option of which OS is pre-installed,  has been dominated by one brand. A potential solution to that is for a  Linux OS to contractually align itself with a supplier of said hardware.

Regardless  of opinion or perception, one should always ask themselves what the  goal of any company is? With research, comes understanding and possibly  enlightenment.

Just my $0.02

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2011-11-08
just posted this same comment in my own thread, but had read this one earlier. just thought i'd add my 2 cents in.

well holy cow!!

just did an upgrade from 11.04 to 11.10 using the update manager, which i generally would never do. was just testing if ubuntu was really up to snuff on how i bragged about it in my own thread about being cynical of ubuntu..

i do believe everything is functioning correctly, although it took well over 3 hours to accomplish this!! downloading the packages was at dial up speed and slower, most of the time.

so far only thing i've noticed is filezilla is still not the most current version although it's a newer version than 11.04 had.

all in all, fairly satisfied at the success of this upgrade, even if slower than molasses in the middle of a michigan winter!!

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2011-11-08
Afraid I will have to add my comments (somewhat negative) on 11.10.  I skipped 11.04 because of all of the flack from Unity .. and now I see why.  Nothing really intuitive to someone that started out in DOS years ago.  And takes a lot of effort (a la Windows Vista) to find items to put into the launch bar.  Also do NOT like the rolling billboard on software center.  Need to find a way to customize and eliminate all that garbage .. I am NOT in favor of eye candy when it is forced upon the user.  Going to take a while to figure it out all over again.  PRE Unity, things were simple and I really loved the drop down menu system in Gnome .. granted, the object is to dump Gnome and have Unity as the desk top, but really do NOT like having to search the depths of the system to find utilities and such .. even having to park terminal in the sidebar was a chore rather than being simple.  

On the plus side .. it is sure a gang faster than the early versions of Ubuntu.  I know I will figure it out with the help of these forums .. but this is NOT a system that I would recommend to a newbie coming over from Windows .. they would be at a total loss.

---

### Post by johnvoisey on 2011-11-09
Ubuntu Hardy came with my elonex web book geez was that really all that many years ago (about three now I think !!) 

The elonex web book can't take a memory upgrade - i tried one and it did not recognise the chips. So I must seek elsewhere for performance upgrades such as I can get.

I have alternated between ubuntu upgrades and arch linux, the trigger for a jump usually being yet another network manager failure to connect to wifi or whatever modem stick is in my pocket.

It's been a roller coaster ride but I am mindful it is much CHEAPER than the ride my colleagues with windows net books suffer.

However, i have to say I am not impressed with Ubuntu 11.10's desktop.

The sidebar has many windows with no icon or a black icon because none is available. 

I cannot find out how to turn the machine off (I would say this is a bit of a necessity wouldn't you)

Ominously it is once again not happy with certain wifi connections.

On balance, I feel this desktop is a quest for eye candy that is not helping me as a low power mobile user.

Sorry to be so negative, but there it is.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2011-11-09
> **johnvoisey said:**
> 

The sidebar has many windows with no icon or a black icon because none is available. 

I cannot find out how to turn the machine off (I would say this is a bit of a necessity wouldn't you)

Ominously it is once again not happy with certain wifi connections.

On balance, I feel this desktop is a quest for eye candy that is not helping me as a low power mobile user.

Sorry to be so negative, but there it is.

Sidebar takes some effort to figure out .. but it is just like having a quick launch task bar.  Only thing is to determine what you want there.  And that can take some effort (learning as you go).

turn off=upper right corner and the euro off button .. but now that button also delivers some utilities that were, at one time, under the old system-preferences/administration menu.  THAT comes in handy!

as to the Wi-Fi .. blame your Wi-Fi chip maker .. not Ubuntu or Unity.  MANY a hand held/laptop device has WiFi issues.  Think of Imelda Marcos and her shoe collection .. then apply that to Wi-Fi chips.  A bit on the hard side to do reversing engineering drivers for so many variants.
A solution I have read about seems to be to get a USB/Wi-Fi dongle that will work in Linux and plug in that and use same.  NOT tried it as I don't have a laptop or hand helds except for an OLD PDA that I use for emergencies and for my GPS.

---

### Post by rg4w on 2011-11-09
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Linux won't reach 2% market share with Gnome 2, sorry to say. With more Unity development it can take 20% market share. Almost.
Few people choose an OS at all.  Most just buy a computer, and the OS comes with it.

So for Ubuntu to get anywhere above 5% or so, it'll need OEMs on board.

And for OEMs to risk putting Ubuntu on their systems, they'll need the one thing Ubuntu can't do by itself:  apps.

For some folks the Big Three (email, browser, office) cover all they need.  But most folks need at least a fourth app, and some need dozens more.

MPT made this the focus of his session at last year's dev summit:
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GT5fUcMUfYg](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GT5fUcMUfYg)

No matter how cool an OS is, ultimately it's just an app launcher.  Apps are where people do their work, and apps define the scope of what an OS can do for people.

Evangelizing the platform to end users and OEMs can't achieve much without first evangelizing it to third-party developers.

Making convenient tools to port apps from Win and Mac to Ubuntu and package them for the Software Center would do far more for Ubuntu's growth than any UI enhancements.

This is a tough challenge, because most app devs are already making money on whatever platform they're writing for, and may wonder if a relatively small new audience would be worth the effort.

The better the porting tools, the lower the cost, and once the cost gets below the value of putting their app in front of 20 million users, they'd be stupid *not* to do it.

I like where Unity is going and am excited by the possibilities of Mr. Shuttleworth's ambitious goals for expanding Ubuntu to other device form factors.

But I hope Canonical also has someone on staff whose full-time job is knocking on developers' doors and asking, "Can I help you port your app to Ubuntu?"

Because if that's not happening, nothing else is as likely to fulfill the mission.

---

