---
title: "10.10 is (almost) a perfect 10"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by jkxx on 2010-10-11
Now that the triple 10 release is out, I figured I'd update my review. I did a review on the beta some time ago and was not impressed with how Ubuntu ran back then. This install was configured a bit differently which happened to make a huge difference. So here it is, a summary of my experiences and observations.

Notes: Test system is an amd64 Opteron 180 w/ 3 GB RAM, Nvidia 8800 GTS video card, and M-Audio Revolution 5.1 sound card. Before trying Ubuntu I also tried the latest versions of Fedora, SuSE, and Debian. This PC also runs PC-BSD/FreeBSD 8.1 and Windows Vista x64.

So let's get on with it!

Curious about wubi I initially installed Ubuntu through it inside vista. This actually went very fast, the entire install was done and running
in some 10 minutes. However, then I ran jockey to install the binary Nvidia driver and the install died with a familiar error message from 
Grub - more on this in a bit. So failing that I just did a normal install to a physical partition on a hard disk and installed that way. This
worked without any problems and in about an hour ubuntu was up and running.

Upon booting up I was presented with an attractive but very sluggish desktop - the bug from 10.04 is still present and will mess up both
window movement and video playback when compositing is enabled in Gnome (and when the binary Nvidia drivers are in use). I started messing with
compizconfig and eventually got the issue resolved, although how exactly is unclear - once it was resolved though, desktop performance is
excellent both with video and games. One nagging problem is that tearing cannot be eliminated despite enabling 'sync to vblank' options in
compiz and nvidia-settings - all videos and games have a tear near the top of the screen in all output modes. Save for this, graphics works
perfectly.

The next problem presented itself when I configured RhythmBox and started playing music. The sound quality was awful (sound sounds like it's
coming out of a 15 year old sound blaster 16 or similar). At random times any music I was playing would turn into loud static or uncontrolled
popping; sound notifications from IM/e-mail apps did not work, and I could not use the center or rear outputs on my sound card. Fed up I followed the "OpenSound" community guide and got rid of alsa, replacing it with OSSv4. This time though pulseaudio was left alone and just
configured to output to OSS. Having made these changes I rebooted. Suddenly all audio ports started working, audio quality improved
tremendously, and multimedia apps stopped freezing and segfaulting. At last, sound was working perfectly, in Ubuntu!

After this second change it's been smooth sailing. Updates, package installation, even running games through wine have all worked. The OS
is very responsive and looks great with the new themes in use since 10.04. In short, it's a joy to use now!
(One minor note/bug here: Gnome does not allow changing of preferred applications, another bug present since 10.04. Interestingly, the same bug is also present in other distros such as Debian and Arch so it seems to be a general Gnome bug. I've filed a bug report on this but don't
expect a quick resolution...)

And now back to the earlier mention of Grub and its failure to boot various Linux OSes - I found that on several PCs at home Grub would fail
in SuSE/Fedora/Debian on all of them. In fact Ubuntu is the only one that actually manages to boot on these very average PCs. It looks like
something is very wrong with Grub, in a somewhat similar fashion to what is wrong with ALSA. Since Grub is depended on to boot the rest of the system, this is or should be cause for concern.

My grade of the OS:

default config after install: C- (due to ALSA+compositing issues)
tweaked install:              A  (yes, it really works THAT well)


...and of the various components:

* Kudos:

Linux kernel
Ubuntu Gnome integration+theming
Upstart
Software center/available software
Ease of install
Community
Speed/performance vs Windows on the same hardware

* Needs some work:

Gnome
compositing within Gnome

* Complete FAILs/Liabilities:

ALSA
Grub


Update: I finally managed to install Maverick on one of the computers that was giving me trouble earlier - this one is a Sempron 64 with 1 GB RAM, Geforce 6600GT video and a chaintech AV-710 sound card - plus a user who gets his system infected with malware really fast in windows.

I had an issue with the nouveau driver which would not allow the install to display but that was fixed relatively easily. Upon install everything worked except for sound; ALSA didn't even see the sound card in this computer. So I went the usual route of replacing ALSA with OSS and now the whole thing works and rather quickly given its lowly specs.

So I'd consider that a success story, and it looks like Canonical fixed the freezing bug some time shortly before the final release for 10.10.

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2010-10-13
Sorry, I don't understand. Are you saying that Jockey caused GRUB to fail? That makes zero sense. 

Unless Jockey somehow messed up the kernel and caused GRUB to see zero kernels and displayed "File not found". 

I never heard of this.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2010-10-14
> **jkxx said:**
> 
The next problem presented itself when I configured RhythmBox and started playing music. The sound quality was awful (sound sounds like it's
coming out of a 15 year old sound blaster 16 or similar). At random times any music I was playing would turn into loud static or uncontrolled
popping; sound notifications from IM/e-mail apps did not work, and I could not use the center or rear outputs on my sound card. Fed up I followed the "OpenSound" community guide and got rid of alsa, replacing it with OSSv4. This time though pulseaudio was left alone and just
configured to output to OSS. Having made these changes I rebooted. Suddenly all audio ports started working, audio quality improved
tremendously, and multimedia apps stopped freezing and segfaulting. At last, sound was working perfectly, in Ubuntu!
 
 
 
yeah sound support sucks... i too have a 5.1 sound card but had problems, upgraded alsa and now use analog sound. using digital output sound works, but disables th emic at the same time. lame. widnows has been long working propperly with surround sund...

---

### Post by jkxx on 2010-10-14
> yeah sound support sucks... i too have a 5.1 sound card but had problems, upgraded alsa and now use analog sound. using digital output sound works, but disables th emic at the same time. lame. widnows has been long working propperly with surround sund...

Yeah it can be disappointing with the default configuration. However, I find that OSS sounds even better than Windows with ASIO for dedicated headphones+amp listening, so the tinkering is very much worth it for me. :D

RJARRRPCGP, that's just what I observed when Ubuntu was installed under Wubi. It worked fine until I installed the binary Nvidia driver, at which point rebooting showed Grub with that message.

I had a similar problem in pinguy OS (respin of 10.04) except there the nvidia drivers caused the OS to start rebooting continuously. Not sure if the two are related but they seem to be since both happen right after the Nvidia driver is installed.

I've had many other issues with Grub but those two are the most recent and on my own PC.

---

### Post by 2Karl on 2010-10-18
I too had the problem with tearing during games. I managed to work around it by disabling compositing before running the games:

```
metacity --replace --no-composite
```

and then reloading compiz afterwards.

Not a particularly great solution, but it works. I'll continue to investigate.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2010-10-18
And I just noticed that you can't import  new programs in <preferred applications> ie: Exaile Music Player .. etc... The help file basically states that <installed programs> should show up in <preferred apps..> so , yes.. a major bug of sorts.

Dell OptiGX

---

### Post by cordis.victor on 2010-10-18
Hello everybody,

    I've been using Ubuntu for more than 3 years now and I'm sorry to say Ubuntu 10.10 MM contains so many functional bugs that it cannot be "a perfect 10". The last perfect Ubuntu was 9.04 JJ, this one is about an 8, because of simple but critical bugs:

1. The high resolution when monitor detection fails:
   this leaves new Ubuntu users blind right after upgrade
   ( reminds me of Ubuntu LL setup which also had this problem)

2. nm-applet problem: DSL connection:
   since Ubuntu KK, this has been an irritating problem and today,
   after installing some updates, nm-applet stopped working !
   I guess they figured "a new Ubuntu user couldn't even get past the
   unknown and unspecified keyring password so why should nm-applet
   actually work?" ... well, back to pppoeconf
   ( at this point, some new Ubuntu users would give up )

3. IPv6 slowdown:
   It's so nice to have Mozilla as default browser... Opera has a superb 
   Linux version too... too bad IPv6 bug increases server response time 
   and total page loading time 10 times.

4. Removal of Software Packages and Menu Items:
   - why move around packages like GStreamer from Synaptic PM to Software
     Sources and back again?
   - why remove System / Administration / Software Sources ? Isn't the
     System / Preferences / menu the one suffering from 
     MenuOutOfBoundsException ???
   - why remove nice features like Nautilus toggle buttons path and
     textbox path (helpful at path copy)
   - why remove the 5th tab from Change Background exactly when important
     possibly unpleasant UI modifications are made?

5. Bad UI modifications like:
   - START+D for show desktop. Why use any START in any key combination ?
   - CTR+D not present in desktop menu.
   - An applet with a mysterious name and , not 1, not 2,
   but 3 functionalities ?
   ( I guess someone skipped the "single functionality component" class )

7. Making all NTFS files ONLY RW ( no X ) prevents wine from running them.
   (and no, "allow exec" or chmod didn't have any effect on a NTFS partition)


Bottom line:
   I hate to see such a fast boot and hibernate time, instant USB mounting, highly improved video performance with ATI, great GUI, new features, all on one good Linux kernel ... all becoming unusable because of such bugs. The OS isn't reliable ( if you find something you like,
don't worry, in the next release it will not be functional anymore).
    The release candidates aren't sufficiently tested or there is a saboteur in the Ubuntu teams, I don't know; what I do know is that I don't have hours and days to waste on non-functional features which where functional in the past ... AND I don't like telling people how awesome  Ubuntu is and then having the earth crumble beneath me.

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2010-10-20
> **jkxx said:**
> 

I had a similar problem in pinguy OS (respin of 10.04) except there the nvidia drivers caused the OS to start rebooting continuously. 

I have yet to see a rebooting issue like that. That sounds like Windows when it has a stop error. 

I can't confirm a kernel panic sending a reboot call, with Linux.

When Windows has the equivalent of a kernel panic, by default, it reboots itself. (Windows NT-based OS)

---

