---
title: "12.04 what a mess - very disappointed"
date: 2012-05-05
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by mitchd123 on 2012-05-05
Team very disappointed in 12.04.   My system has been completely stable and working at 10, and I upgraded to 12.   Even the basic things now fail.

1) Name resolution doesn't work.  

2) x no longer starts

3) manually starting x results in a mythtv configuration window taking over my screen.  Clicking cancel simply crashes and restarts the mythtv configuration window. 

4) The screen resolution is not adjustable, nvidia drivers installed.  Max resolution is 1024x768, when previously the resolution was 1900x1200.  

Not looking for help, I'll work each of these issues,  but why do these new version get released when they are not ready for the average user.   Very disappointing.

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-05-05
> **mitchd123 said:**
> 
Not looking for help, I'll work each of these issues,  but why do these new version get released when they are not ready for the average user.   Very disappointing.


Since not looking for help, moved to T & E forum.

I would raise bug reports at launchpad for each issue so the developers can try to fix the bugs.

If you need help please create a separate thread for each issue. Cheers.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2012-05-05
> **mitchd123 said:**
> 
4) The screen resolution is not adjustable, nvidia drivers installed.  Max resolution is 1024x768, when previously the resolution was 1900x1200.  

Not looking for help, I'll work each of these issues,  but why do these new version get released when they are not ready for the average user.   Very disappointing.

bummer.

i hope you unintsalled nvidia drivers before doing the upgrade? if not try and purge them completelly and reinstall...

it seems all are GPU issues.

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-05
The proprietry nVidia 295.40 drivers with 12.04 are a known issue. nVidia has fixed this with 295.49 and 302.07 drivers which you can load manually after uninstalling the 295.40 drivers. Seach the upgrade forum here or Google for the files and procedures.

---

### Post by Mopar1973Man on 2012-05-08
Not to shot down anyone hard work. But i always tend to hang back a bit and allow the new versions of software hit the street for a few months and let the bugs get fixed up before jumping in with both feet. Truly I think it a professional relm for the first release of any major version. 

Hanging back 11.10 watching and waiting... (Grin)

---

### Post by Tanker Bob on 2012-05-08
> **Mopar1973Man said:**
> Not to shot down anyone hard work. But i always tend to hang back a bit and allow the new versions of software hit the street for a few months and let the bugs get fixed up before jumping in with both feet. Truly I think it a professional relm for the first release of any major version. 

Hanging back 11.10 watching and waiting... (Grin)

Discretion is sometimes the better part of valor. :-)

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2012-05-08
> Tanker Bob
Discretion is sometimes the better part of valor. :smile:

+1
Couldn't agree more. Except, I say it's most of the time. :-k

---

### Post by vegarend on 2012-05-08
No hindsight intended but I would stay away from the upgrade feature. Fresh install is better :)

If you are on a laptop I would suggest purging nvidia drivers and install bumblebee. Stay away from the proprietary drivers and give them another try in a while.

---

### Post by Antman on 2012-05-09
> **vegarend said:**
> no hindsight intended but i would stay away from the upgrade feature. Fresh install is better :)
+1 

> **vegarend said:**
> if you are on a laptop i would suggest purging nvidia drivers and install bumblebee. Stay away from the proprietary drivers and give them another try in a while.

+2

---

