---
title: "G.ot rid of Windows."
date: 2010-03-01
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by peace.gangsta on 2010-03-01
After much time spent on Windows/Ubuntu dual boot,I removed windows permanently

---

### Post by J V on 2010-03-01
And...? Anything to add? :)

---

### Post by r-senior on 2010-03-01
Yay! =D> No looking back now!

Apart from a Windows 2000 VM with one paid-for application that I still use occasionally, I went 100% Linux about a year ago after Vista let me down. I've not regretted it.

---

### Post by EssexEagle on 2010-03-01
> **J V said:**
> And...? Anything to add? :)

The thread is a partial duplicate of [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1419149](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1419149)

---

### Post by TurnOfTide on 2010-03-01
> **EssexEagle said:**
> The thread is a partial duplicate of [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1419149](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1419149)


partial duplicate, but completely irrelevant.

---

### Post by peace.gangsta on 2010-03-02
I have no idea how did this happen :o ... I created only one thread..

---

### Post by peace.gangsta on 2010-03-02
Better delete it (@admin) or see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1419149](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1419149) I am still facing some problems would appreciate the help. :)

---

### Post by moza74 on 2010-03-02
I've been Windows free for 18 months and I love it! Actually enjoy using my computer again! Ubuntu all the way!

---

### Post by marc480 on 2010-03-03
This is my second go-round with Ubuntu on my laptop. The first time I couldn't play videos well and dvds at all. And MMOs were out of the question. That was 9.04. 

Now with 9.10 videos and DVDs are all good, and MMOs are of no concern because they're not that impotence to me this time around.

---

### Post by jis on 2010-03-04
I thought I got rid of Windows, but I bought some hardware that is not supported in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by maraldi on 2010-03-04
Linux is just great.  Windows just ok.

---

### Post by Brightneon_Latte on 2010-03-05
Congratulations on getting rid of windows. I really love ubuntu, but I still need to dual boot with windows 7 because I use certain programs like Flash and Dreamweaver that don't exist in linux (well, atleast flash. about DW, there's Kompozer, but I still need to familiarize with it...)
In any other way I use ubuntu, and it's great.
Can't wait for 10.04!!!

---

### Post by 2uRcJQ34G1 on 2010-03-05
Congratulations!! I only dual boot to play PC games, WINE HQ still screws up some games and I completely despise console, they completely take power away from you with their ridiculous controllers.

---

### Post by rickc1970 on 2010-03-06
My laptop is all Ubuntu and I really enjoy it. My desktop is still XP as my wife mainly uses it. I figure I will either keep it that way or go dual boot. I have some games that I need windows for. I foresee a time when more people will convert to Linux. I feel it is a superior OS to Windows.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-03-06
I can't live without windows, but I do love my [COLOR="DarkOrange"]ubuntu[/COLOR].

---

