---
title: "8.04 Testimonial-why its time"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by mindwip on 2008-04-26
Hello all,


This is my short review personal feelings. I have been using linux for the last 4 years on and off. But lately starting with 7.10 i have been using linux 98.3% of the time. Before i say how great 8.04 is let me give you a quick review with my past linux experience. Perhaps you have had similar things happen to you. Not meant for the hardcore linux user, just the average Joe or Jane. Meaning if somthing is not 100% correct thats not the point, this is meant more as a overview of a journey.

I first started with Suse/redhat many years back, but at the time my graphics card and linux as a whole where not on speaking terms. Unless you spent hours praying to the console Gods. I did get them to listen but the cost was to high for me. Linux was not ready. Back to XP for me.

Sometime later i started to hear whispers of a magical linux os that was "the one". Hum after a journey to the local shaman i found out that this OS was called Ubuntu. And that no one knew how to say its name. So it was called the great U. The Shanman also warned of problems shared by other OS-hardware drivers were just not catching up with the polish of the current Linux OS's. No matter how good the OS you would have driver problems, and if you had a ATI card praying was all you could do. I ignored the shaman and blazed my own way trying this great U but again was shoot down by driver problems. Back to XP


After praying to the OS gods about what to do i was given an answer. ATI graphics card crash and burned! The gods sent a sign. My choice was to buy a new graphics card but which to choose ATI that i was always loyal to or this other one less well know Nvidia. As would see fit ATI and  felt high and mighty and had not released any drivers for linux. Nvidia the little graphic company saw fit to throw linux a bone and make an atempt at a driver for linux.

The choice was made, Nvidia won. Armed with a new graphics card i set out to try this great U which i had finally learned to pronounce. 7.04 was its name it was installed and ran ok. Nothing great, there were bugs there were other problems, but on the whole it ran and did what you asked. Of course games and 3rd party software made living in linux still at the slave at console Gods. Back to XP, but this time Ubuntu stayed as a duel boot, to play with and to rescue XP when it feel.

Then came 7.10! there was much talk and partys about this new version that promised things would WORK right out of the box-and this time it would not be a lie. Sitting up all night waiting for Ubuntu 7.10 to be released. After waiting up all night 7.10 was grabbed with bit torrent and installed! The hype was right! It worked! It had cool shinny things! The bugs were small and few!

Bugs screen went blank every 10 mins- no its not the screen saver just something that cant be stopped
Getting projectors to work was a call to the Gods. And when you spent $800 on one you want it to work!
Flash worked but also was buggy.


So 7.10 was almost perfect! Still it was back to XP. Why because it was what i knew. But the Gods spoke again, a mysterous illness affects my computer! My xp drive will crash and die for many days then would regain its health. During this time i would use 7.10. I got used to it! Slowly each time i would wait longer to try XP again. Now i could of fixed the hard drive but it would of cost money for a new one money that i did not want to spend. I could if reinstalled XP but why i like my sundays, not giving another to XP.

So it was 7.10 grew on me not perfect but ok enough to use and be happy! Then came the much less partyed and talked about 8.04 again promising many magical things. Like working out of the box. After a painful upgrade(i had heard upgrades were not Ubuntu strong point, i am now a believer) then format install fresh copy (for some reason it did not work), then format install again and God said let the third time work. Now those bugs that made 7.10 be a less then perfect OS


Bugs screen went blank every 10 mins----Gone
Getting projectors to work--Works not 100%  yet but it works fine enough-500% better then 7.10
Flash worked but also was buggy.--- still not perfect but alot better, i cant play music or movies off my hardrive while on youtube.


8.04 is great, it has a few things not perfect but they are small and there is still plenty of time for the bugs to be patched. With 8.04 Ubuntu has become the 3rd operating system, its not just MS and Apple for the average joe and jane. One can only say XP who??

One can hope that following 7.10s trend 8.10 there will not be only much partying but the rumored perfect desktop...for we are surly  close enough to see it from here.


A thanks to the Ubuntu team and Ubuntu forum members helping make Ubuntu even better by helping those less in the know then them.

---

