---
title: "3.5 years of Ubuntu... Still some rough edges"
date: 2010-11-15
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by the8thstar on 2010-11-15
Hello all,

Well it's time for another yearly checkup to see how (un)happy I am with Ubuntu.

Overall I'd say that the experience has become smoother and more enjoyable as time goes by. I even convinced some close people of mine to try Ubuntu for themselves.

Ubuntu is still failing in some areas. Or maybe I'm asking more than the OS or apps can actually deliver, I don't know.

[COLOR="Blue"]**1. Gnome panel and Emerald**[/COLOR]

My panel applets behave so strangely - sometimes the time is gone, or the weather, or some items are just misplaced. Often too, Emerald will not display the window title bars at all. These are issues I haven't been able to resolve.

[COLOR="Blue"]**2. Drag n' Drop**[/COLOR]

Windows allows a right-click + drop from window A to window B, where a menu appears giving you some options about what to do next. That is not the case in Gnome. Am I missing something?

[COLOR="Blue"]**3. Docky **[/COLOR]

On my old P4, the weather applet works fine. On my Core Solo, it's impossible to set up to work. Mind you, they use the same repos, the same PPA's and they are on the same network... I just don't get it.

Anyway, when these issues are solved, I'll consider myself a very satisfied Ubuntu user.

---

### Post by lancest on 2010-11-15
I believe the Gnome panel issues are related to less than perfect Compiz integration. Hoping for better in the future with Unity.

I prefer keyboard shortcuts and don't use Docky.

---

### Post by marshmallow1304 on 2010-11-15
For drag and drop, click and drag with the left mouse button then hold Alt as you release to get a little menu.  You can alternately hold Ctrl for a copy or Ctrl+Shift to make a link.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-11-15
Gnome uses middle-drag .

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2010-11-15
With Thunar you can right-click drag-drop with a menu. I don't like Nautilus, it is too clumsy, I prefer Thunar regardless of whether I am using Gnome or XFCE.

Gnome panel is deprecated (with all of its applets), next version will have no Gnome panel.

---

### Post by agamjain on 2010-11-17
> **the8thstar said:**
> 
[COLOR=blue]**1. Gnome panel and Emerald**[/COLOR]
 
My panel applets behave so strangely - sometimes the time is gone, or the weather, or some items are just misplaced. Often too, Emerald will not display the window title bars at all. These are issues I haven't been able to resolve.
 

 
Hi. Even I am facing this problem. The panel applets get misplaced randomly and sometimes they do not even display properly. My Trash icon has been moved and I can't get it back again. If I right click on its icon to move it, the move option is greyed out and I can't click it. Is there a solution for this?

---

### Post by lancest on 2010-11-17
> **agamjain said:**
> Hi. Even I am facing this problem. The panel applets get misplaced randomly and sometimes they do not even display properly. My Trash icon has been moved and I can't get it back again. If I right click on its icon to move it, the move option is greyed out and I can't click it. Is there a solution for this?

I have experienced this at times and for a long time had no idea how to solve it. Usually I just log in and out and the issue goes away. Also the missing title bar at startup bug. 

Lately I've been running with /usr/bin/compiz in Startup Applications .
compiz --replace --sm-disable --ignore-desktop-hints ccp --loose-binding --indirect-rendering
(THE COMMAND)
 Seems to work well somewhat consistently across different machines. *With this you also have to make sure Compiz is your Window manager in the Compiz Settings Manager*. 
This tweak works 90%+ of the time. 
My view is that Gnome, Unity (whatever) and Compiz need to be alot better friends in the future. Better integration is called for. Panel icons not loading is silly.

---

### Post by Decatf on 2010-11-17
Emerald hasn't been touched in ages. It's pretty much dead in terms of development afaik.

---

