---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 observations"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by psidrum on 2009-11-05
I really liked 9.04, most stable OS ive ever used, this past week i upgraded to 9.10, i am noticing some things that 9.04 never had and that is "program crashes"

i noticed that some programs are crashing more than before, example, Nautilus crashed on me, never had that happen in 9.04, Opera crashed on me, never had that in 9.04, program slow down, pidgin slowed down once on me

system lock up, i never had this in 9.04, but my system actually locked up in 9.10 and i had to turn it off, i have never done that in 9.04

):P

---

### Post by Ms_Angel_D on 2009-11-05
Your issues could be related to having done an upgrade. I've had these types of problems myself after doing an upgrade, clean installs always seem to work better.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-05
^^^^What she said^^^

I personally didn't get any problems from the upgrade, but I did use the Alternate Installer ISO to start the upgrade. I plan on doing a clean install just for the faster boot times, that I didn't get with the upgrade.

---

### Post by GodLikeCreature on 2009-11-05
I´ve actually had the opposite happening to me lately.  I am very happy with Jaunty, I think it was an amazing release, and that´s why I have only installed Karmic once and stuck with Jaunty in my other computers.  However, I have had 2 lockups lately in Jaunty, which I had never seen...  Very weird.

Karmic has been rock solid so far in my experience.

Having said so, I am having an opportunity to compare Karmic to Jaunty on a daily basis, and I think both are extraordinary releases, but perhaps Karmic didn´t have as big an improvement on Jaunty as Jaunty did on Intrepid.

When I first installed Jaunty, I found a huge difference, that I didn´t find this time around.  I think that speaks volumes for the quality of Ubuntu releases.  In fact, I think as one gets close to perfecting something, each improvement is less noticeable and harder to achieve.

---

