---
title: "10.10 is a 10 for me :)"
date: 2010-11-09
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by luckylucky on 2010-11-09
I've been sorely disappointed with 10.04 LTS, and have voiced my opinions about that months ago.  Honestly for an LTS edition I'm simply dismayed.

I've procrastinated trying 10.10, thinking that it would be a hassle like its' predecessor, and I decided to wait a few weeks before even trying it so that any bugs that surfaced upon release could get fixed.

So I tried it on a laptop.  Then a netbook (desktop edition for all of them), then another netbook, and then finally my main productivity machine that was still suffering under 10.04.

My opinion?

Ubuntu 10.10 is by far the best I've ever used... and I've been with Ubuntu since nearly the beginning.  It is the perfect 10 in my books, or as close as we can be in a world where hardware is manufactured for windoze.  I am very happy with 10.10 on 4 machines, and plan to upgrade a few other machines to it soon.

I WISH THAT 10.10 WAS THE LTS!!!

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2010-11-09
for me 10.10 wont do what puppy does on my laptop.

---

### Post by kaldor on 2010-11-09
9.10-10.04 were gross releases for me and it drove me to other distros.

10.10 looked promising, but it turns out Intel wireless cards are having issues this release (and other distros too). Another thing getting in my way :(

---

### Post by luckylucky on 2010-11-09
Well that's why I said
>  or as close as we can be in a world where hardware is manufactured for windoze

Trust me, I'm not without my issues either.  I'm still dealing with a couple of head bangers, but overall my impressions are good, and most things are working.

My favorite thing that works (actually worked in 10.04 too)... plug in USB of printer, wait 10 seconds, and it is installed & ready to go!  I literally stood up and gave my computer a standing ovation the first time.

---

