---
title: "10.04 - Thoughts..."
date: 2010-05-19
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by riph72 on 2010-05-19
Hello all,

I've been using 10.04 since the day it was released (or thereabouts) and must say I've been very happy with it, except for a small update glitch while downloading updates a couple of days back.
Compared to 8.04 it's extremely slickly designed, I plan on sticking with it and only using the LTS versions from this point on...

I do have a small gripe though, and it's to do with the number of "software update" options available via the menus.  If I want to install software I can go to the Ubuntu Software Centre for the major apps.  But, if I want to install/remove packages, I now have via System/Administration - "Add/Remove Software" and "Synaptic Package Manager" doing a similar task.  If I want to check for updates I have "Software Update" and "Update Manager", which seem to do the same job.  Also for controlling access to updates etc, there are TWO entries in the menu called "Software Sources", both doing a similar job but with a slightly different interface.

Has anyone else noticed this rather messy situation?  It lets down an otherwise very polished experience!

Cheers,
Richard.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-05-19
Did you do a clean install? If you did, it sounds like maybe some old conf files in the /home are messing with your menu entries. If you go to System> Preferences> Main Menu, you can uncheck one of the entries for Software Sources and the Add/Remove.

Add/Remove is not supposed to be there anymore.

I realize I am only giving you band aides instead of fixing the problem. If you would like further help into the problems with the menus, you may want to open a thread in the general help section.

I am glad that Lucid is otherwise being a great system for you.

Thanx for sharing,
uRock

---

### Post by riph72 on 2010-05-19
Hi,

It was a clean install, yes.  I might be wrong here, but I'm not sure if all these options were available at first, or have come along following updates... (and I DID have an issue the other day!)
Wouldn't a clean install have wiped the old conf files, or am I assuming a format was carried out when it wasn't?

Thanks for your help anyway.  These aren't big problems, just detracting from the feeling of slickness a bit, that's all  :)

I'm actually very happy with Lucid, as I was with Hardy for many months before making the switch.

Cheers,
Richard.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-05-19
By configurations I mean the program setting such as themes and other settings that are stored in the /home as hidden files. They could be causing the trouble. Someone in the general help section may know how to clear that up for you.

Cheers,
uRock

---

