---
title: "11.04 the version with most graphic problems?"
date: 2011-04-25
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by EricDHH on 2011-04-25
The 11.04 makes me frigthen, all computers got heavy graphic problems that did not exist before.
My thinkpad t42 with radeon mobile is somewhat laggy and sluggish with the new nuveau. Reason is the forced usage of 3d in unity, it has worked pretty well for years before.
My thinkpad x41 has worked pretty well, now the i915 was forced to uxa and 24bpp, but intel says the gpu is desgined for exa and 16bpp. Now i got graphic crashes when switching to rooted windows.
On my desktop i revert back to 10.10 after 3 days. Nuveau did not support my radeon, but unity enforce 3d. The fglrx was uninstallable, now that is fixed but something in refresh is already broken and unusable.
My eee 901 was sold away, the 10.04 netbook was okay but 10.10 with enforced 3d works only in slow motion with freezes.

I have never filed so many bugreports bout the graphic system in my life before. I would say that the 3d enforcement is really a great pain in 11.04:( Anybody out there to give me a light with working graphics?

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-04-25
Did you upgrade or clean install? 3D graphics works great for me. I have never had a problem with nvidia cards.

---

### Post by jdrodrig on 2011-04-25
> **wolfen69 said:**
> Did you upgrade or clean install? 3D graphics works great for me. I have never had a problem with nvidia cards.

This is getting off-topic for a T&E post, you would get more help on the corresponding help section.

This thread should be moved, IMHO.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-04-26
If your computer uses a Radeon GPU, then of course Nouveau won't work with it - Nouveau is for Nvidia GPUs, not ATI Radeons.

Any reason why you didn't:

a. Install the ATI proprietary driver? (I'm assuming yours is supported by the ATI driver)
b. Try Unity 2D (installable from the repositories)
c. Try Gnome Classic in 11.04.

---

