---
title: "10.04 Glad I Could Help and Contribute"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by 1roxtar on 2010-04-30
I started playing with Lucid from Alpha 1 to RC.  Each time, I saw big improvements.  I have this older computer that I use to test various distros and versions of Ubuntu.  I had a few installation problems and at first thought that my computer wasn't going to play well with 10.04.  When I got down to the RC, it installed with only a few weird error messages at start up. However, once I ran the updates, they were fixed and now I have Lucid Lynx working without a hitch.  

This was done without any work around, the Command Line, or any tweaking.  I wanted to see the progression from Alpha to Final.  I felt good participating with the testing.  I'm no computer novice, but I'm no programmer either.  Sending my bug reports, posting in the forums and talking about and showing people around me Ubuntu on my laptop was the extent of my contribution.  It gave me warm and fuzzy feelings knowing I could help in some way, large or small.  LOL

I found out about Linux, a little over a year ago and have been using Ubuntu from 9.04 to 10.04.  I am a huge fan and I can't shut up about Ubuntu.  Lucid Lynx is by far my favorite version.  It's fast (even on my old computer), it's beautiful, it has everything I need and use.  I already have my copy burned on a cd and will be installing it on a buddy's computer.  Last night he told me, "I'm so sick and tired of my computer(XP)already!  I think I'm gonna try your UBUNTU."  I was grinning from ear to ear. 

:guitar:

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2010-04-30
> 1roxtar

Thank you for participating in the developmental testing of 10.04. I'm certain many will/do appreciate your contributions.

Good Luck

---

