---
title: "10.04 LTS perfect linux distro"
date: 2011-10-02
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by gautam_jat on 2011-10-02
hey friends, after trying all available linux distros, and all versions, i finally concluded that ubuntu 10.04 LTS is the best and the most stable release.I started using linux 3 monts ago, there were hardware I/O problems in 11.04, and wi-fi, bluetooth would'nt work on opensuse and it was almost impossible as a bigineer even to updae and install basic drivers in fedora.
But in 10.04 LTS everything fine and so i finally switched to it.
So biginners, ubuntu 10.04 LTS is the best bet for u----------------------------------
UBUNTU 10.04 LTS rocks-------------:p

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-10-02
With ubuntu, always go for lts releases - if you want to use your pc that is.

---

### Post by F.G. on 2011-10-02
you tried all versions of all linux distros in 3 months???? wow.

oh yes, and i loved 10.04, though i've now moved away from it I'm thinking about moving back.

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2011-10-02
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu Testimonials & Experiences**.*


404

---

### Post by bs5765 on 2011-10-03
Yes I agree that 10.04 is the best, whenever I try something else, I always find myself coming back to 10.04. It is unrivaled in stability and I imagine I will be using it at least until they stop supporting it.

---

### Post by dniMretsaM on 2011-10-03
Glad it works for you! I've always been more of a bleeding edge kinda guy (even before I used GNU/Linux). That's why I'm running 11.04 with KDE 4.7.1, but that's another story. If you're new to GNU/Linux (or computers in general) and want to try Ubuntu, I always recommend the LTS release since it's very stable on most machines. Debian stable is also a very solid distro.

---

### Post by aura7 on 2011-10-03
+1 

10.04 is the best distro for me too......

11.04 is too buggy and unstable for me. Waiting for the next Long Term Support Release..

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2011-10-03
I like the LTS releases for my laptop or netbook computers; however, I don't need the most current applications. 

I choose Debian stable or CentOS for servers. 

If there is an application where I want the most current version on a laptop or netbook, I will add the developer's PPA to the software sources in the LTS, if the developer has one. 

Not everyone has the same hardware so their experience with 10.04 may not be a happy one, and 10.10 or 11.04 works better for them. 

Some people just like having the newest stuff as well. 

I have used GNU/Linux distros for many years and realize that GNU/Linux distros provide the opportunity to choose to use what works best for you, be it Ubuntu or some other distro. As a matter of fact, I have a multimedia server that runs Windows 7; because, my family wants Netflix and other Microsoft applications.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2011-10-03
> **gautam_jat said:**
> ...after trying all available linux distros, and all versions...

> **F.G. said:**
> ...you tried all versions of all linux distros in 3 months???? wow...

I thought the same thing :). I am sure that I don't know about all the versions or distros of Linux. I have attached a graphic from 2007. I am sure the number of distros have change since then. The graphic doesn't show versions/releases either.

I am assuming that gautam_jat meant Ubuntu or its derivatives rather than Linux :). For the hard core crowd I should use GNU/Linux; however, I assume when someone refers to Linux they mean GNU/Linux since the Linux kernel isn't very useful to a home computer user without GNU.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-10-04
10.04 - sound issues.
10.10 - it all works as it should (except for audioCD)
 
waiting for next LTS where hopefully all works.
 
forgot to mention that old noteook works super well with 10.04 LTS. it even has increased batery life (before windowsXP)

---

### Post by goldshirt9 on 2011-10-04
totally agree on the lts releases.
The only problem is they are soon forgotten by developers who try to always keep up with the newest Ubuntu release. :(

---

### Post by pr3zident on 2011-10-04
10.04 is the best .... The most stable i run it on my desktop 

netbook i run 11.04 gnome 3

---

### Post by gautam_jat on 2011-10-05
ya i don't now much, but i tried all versions of ubuntu, fedora, opensuse. And others like dreamlinux, puppy,few others whose name i dont remember.Actually i am free, i mean on vacation for 6 months, and so i installed and used the each distro for about 3 days, round a clock and checked all compatiblities and performance for my system.And i think its enough for a begineer and these are all distros which a begineer can try. As there are roundabout many unknown linux distributions, which are known to very few of them and mostly unknown to beginerrs.

---

### Post by rulorojo on 2011-10-12
I just re-installed Ubuntu 10.04.3, this is far better for my convenience than 11.04. 

I can use Vuescan ( best scanner software) and X-Plane. No issues while installing. Impossible to run Vuescan on 11.04
Vuescan has a minor flaw, it has to be started as SU.

11.04 Unity is horrible, what a waste of time in programing such a lousy application, prefer to place icons on the desktop.

Goodbye Windows ! 

With my elder ASus P5K SE, modified Bios to enable AHCI, I manage to boot in 15 seconds with an Intel 510, 120 Gb SSD. 

I still will have to use a smaller pc with windows to manage some "Access" files.

---

### Post by arunb on 2011-10-13
vuescan runs on linux ?? I thought its compatible only with XP

---

### Post by beew on 2011-10-13
At least on all the machines I have tested 10.10 is way better than 10.04, and 11.04 has become faster and smoother than 10.10 about 3-4 months after release, 11.10 is already better than 11.04 in terms of speed and stability (on my machines) even before the major post release bug fixes that will be rolling in in the coming weeks.

I can't understand this nostalgia for 10.04. Today I wouldn't recommend it for anyone (unless he/she has some old hardware that newer releases may not support)  since so much development has happened in a year and a half (especially if you stick with the software versions in the repo and haven't upgraded with ppas, then it is downright museum piece). Hardware that was not supported in 10.04 work OOTB with later releases. If you don't like unity you can always check out *buntu 11.04 or 11.10 (in a few weeks after the bug fixes)

---

### Post by ubupirate on 2011-10-13
> **beew said:**
> ...

I've had the following Ubuntu installed:

9.10
10.04
10.10
11.04
11.10

And out of all those, 10.04 is currently the highest performing release for both my desktop and laptop.

---

### Post by ThomWilhelm on 2011-10-13
For me the recent Ubuntu distro's have been:

10.04 = Very stable and reliable. Few sound issues I seem to remember.
10.10 = Even more stable, it was like a polished version of 10.10 (for my laptop anyway)
11.04 = Absolute shambles to install, Unity is completely unintuitive when it comes to switching Windows whilst working. Many applications didn't work at all.
11.10 = See 11.04. All we have are newer versions of awfully designed packages. Unity I have found has maybe ironed out a couple of issues, but still doing day-to-day development is very slow and tedious.

Over Christmas when I have some time I'll probably switch to Debian or back to Ubuntu 10.10, or even another distribution with a better front end. I'll keep trying the new Ubuntu releases through a live CD or something.

---

