---
title: "9.10 Karmic Koala =  Ubuntu's Vista?"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by mCion on 2009-11-05
I know everybody will hate me for posting this, but nonetheless it's constructive criticism and from my point of view, it's close to the truth.

One year using Ubuntu and I love it.  I thought it would just keep on getting better, until I installed Karmic, and everything went downhill.

Why a comparison to Vista?

Vista was released BEFORE it was ready as it should have been, therefore it was very unstable, ate a TON of resources, etc.  Sure it ****looked**** really nice, but it was a piece of junk.  Actually it was the disgusting Windows Vista that made me look into Ubuntu (for which I'm thankful).  Like me, many people left the windows environment because of the Vista mess.

The problem with Karmic?

Out too soon!(or tried to do too much in little time, since Ubuntu has scheduled releases)  Sure, it sounds really nice to have cloud computing integrated with you OS, to have ext4 filesystem set to default, faster boot times, new look, new Ubuntu Software Center, etc etc. 
The bottom line, a very unstable incomplete OS.  Just look at the forums!, they are full of crashes, no sound, etc.  

My example, installed 9.10.  I get several "serious kernel problems" but the machine runs.  Just a few days in, my once very stable laptop freezes all the time.  I dont even remember the last time I manually shut down the computer (ok, maybe I got to do it like 3 times... out of 50).

I've tried everything!, going back to 9.04 with ext4, 9.10 and 9.04 with ext3 and nothing!!.  It now freezes all the time.  I cant even return to the previous state of my machine before I installed the "Killer Koala".

I can't watch any videos for more than 3 minutes online, besides the completely RANDOM crashes.

I'm one Ubuntu user that is NOT happy with my system like this.

Sometimes it's good to hear the good and the bad.  My hope is that in the future Ubuntu will be a stable, ***reliable system***.  No one likes to have lots of "cool looking features" if your system crashes often.  My other hope is to get my computer working again, how it was before Karmic, but that looks kind of hard right now as I've run out of ideas.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-05
If you're having problems with 9.04 where it worked fine before, I bet you it has nothing to do with Karmic but everything with your machine. You may have bad ram or a dying harddisk, but its impossible that your laptop somehow remembers you once ran Karmic and punishes you for it by freezing in other OSs

Im fine with constructive criticism of Karmic, and much  of it is quite warranted but you have a very different problem.

Run memtest, and check your harddisk  with a good diagnostics tool to start with.

---

### Post by mCion on 2009-11-05
good point P4man.  The only problem is... been there done that.

I've run several hardisk and memory tests, according to all of them it's all fine.

I do appreciate you idea though.  any others?

I do not intend to offend with the post, but rather learn from other people's (companies) mistakes and just be a bit more careful.  Anyway, there is always the chance that a new system will leave some ppl out.  What confuses me is why I can't go back to a stable system as it was before if the memory and hardisk are OK...

---

### Post by rich97 on 2009-11-05
Well, I've upgraded and seen 1 or 2 (very) minor problems. But for me this has been the best one I've tried, and I've been using it since Intrepid, hardware worked for me first time, lots of great new features, still perfectly up to speed.

But from what I've seen on these forums lots of people are calling foul. I don't think this was released too early, it's general knowledge that you wait a month or so before upgrading. You watch the same thing will happen with Lucid.

Release early and often is a very good philosophy to take with tech savvy users. (37signals philosophy).

Anyway sorry that you are having problems but if you have formatted and installed 9.04 (which you were previously alright with?) then P4man must be right. I can't think of any other suggestion. Sorry. :(

---

### Post by GSF on 2009-11-05
i would compare it to windows 7, since my hardware is compatible enough for me to enjoy this version of ubuntu... :) tbh i think its not really ubuntu i like (i mean choices of pre installed software and theme from developers) but the simplicity of installation, dual boot with other OS'es (if you are not stupid enough to overwrite windows boot loader), and a great software manager (so far..) .. its the first version of linux that makes me almost want to forget windows, and im slowly learning how to customize it to my own needs 100% ... 

and to contribute from my part, i just started learning python... who knows :)

---

### Post by arnab_das on 2009-11-05
it could be ubuntu's vista. but remember what came after vista? windows 7!

i hope 10.04 does to ubuntu what windows 7 did for windows.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-05
> **mCion said:**
> good point P4man.  The only problem is... been there done that.

I've run several hardisk and memory tests, according to all of them it's all fine.

I do appreciate you idea though.  any others?


I could be anything.. overheating cpu or videocard, a faulty powersupply, a corrupted bios, a dead motherboard.

If 9.04 was stable and issue free once, and it no longer is after upgrading to karmic and wiping it off again, then the problem is neither karmic nor jaunty. The problem is what its running on: the PC or laptop.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2009-11-05
As far as the 9.04 install I have had a bad install even when it was a good iso and burn, this happened on on a computer that had a pretty old HD.

---

### Post by meho_r on 2009-11-05
> **mCion said:**
> good point P4man.  The only problem is... been there done that.

I've run several hardisk and memory tests, according to all of them it's all fine.

I do appreciate you idea though.  any others?

I do not intend to offend with the post, but rather learn from other people's (companies) mistakes and just be a bit more careful.  Anyway, there is always the chance that a new system will leave some ppl out.  What confuses me is why I can't go back to a stable system as it was before if the memory and hardisk are OK...

Have you tried any other distros to see how it will behave? E.g. try Mandriva (which is fresh released) or Fedora or any other. Try doing what you usually do, watch some video and stuff. This way you'll at least get an idea is it up to Karmic/Ubuntu or your machine.

BTW, I had some initial glitches with Karmic (Internet connection, Ubuntu One, broken packages, even a kernel problem when I plugged in an old scanner), but after first update (I think) most went off, and I managed to solve other issues so more-less everything is working fine (I ditched that scanner).

---

### Post by myromance123 on 2009-11-05
When you say "going back to 9.04 with ext4, 9.10 and 9.04 with ext3 and nothing!!" do you mean a **full reinstall??**

 Or some other odd unknown method of degrading an upgrade?
As far as I know, you can only 'downgrade' by doing a complete reinstall with the older version you wish to 'downgrade' to.

IF it was a complete reinstall, it might truly be time you bought a new laptop. Things change, laptops die (over time). A fresh complete reinstall will ***wipe out*** remains of existing data held on the harddisk unless you tell it not to (did you?).
 
> besides the completely RANDOM crashes.
This sounds like a serious hardware problem, not a software one, since I have experienced this on computers with dead (or in the process of dying) harddisks and overheating (due to dust, old thermal paste or broken cpu fans) processors, regardless of the OS and version.

May I inquire what are your hardware specifications?
Specifically:
1.Processor
2.RAM
3.Graphics card
4.Laptop brand/vendor
5. Year bought.

The only problem I had with the new "Killer Koala" as you put it (I like that LOL), was that (as previous versions have done for me) Ubuntu was not able to accept the binary driver I had installed for Nvidia in 9.04 so when I upgraded I had to manually reinstall the driver through recovery mode since GUI mode had conflicting drivers (or something on that line).

Other than that its all good, but yeah oddly it doesn't feel like "ubuntu" so much anymore... Odd

PS: I dont hate you for posting this. The community is what makes Ubuntu  what it is, which is Ubuntu. No hard feelings here :)

---

### Post by MaquinaX on 2009-11-05
mCion, I have to agree with most of the guys here... If you tried 2 distros and both do the same, it's most likely NOT any OS. Also, I don't think ANY ubuntu distro has ever been the mess the Vista is, lol. I myself upgraded from 8.04. I remember even then, there were a few bugs that I worked through, but I was soon able to have a VERY stable system. That's pretty much what I'm seeing here. Another great distro, with a few glitches that should soon get resolved. My advise is to try burning your installation disk at the lowest possible writer speed, that did it for me. I was having some issues with the initial installation, but was soon resolved after burning a good copy at 12x speed. Hope you figure this out.

MaquinaX

---

### Post by Kokopelli on 2009-11-05
The comparison of Karmic to Vista is flawed.  Vista, even working exactly as designed, has usability and performance issues.  Karmic has install issues for many, but it is an improvement for those who get it installed and operating.

I see some people are having problems with lockups, but honestly no more than in Ibex or Jaunty.  I think Karmic has more issues (dmraid, grub2, video) than Jaunty but mostly on install.

---

### Post by zuerston on 2009-11-05
> **mCion said:**
> good point P4man.  The only problem is... been there done that.

I've run several hardisk and memory tests, according to all of them it's all fine.

I do appreciate you idea though.  any others?

I do not intend to offend with the post, but rather learn from other people's (companies) mistakes and just be a bit more careful.  Anyway, there is always the chance that a new system will leave some ppl out.  What confuses me is why I can't go back to a stable system as it was before if the memory and hardisk are OK...
-------------------------
hello
I am having the same problems,I am running a Dell Optiplex GX270 2.8 gig HT P4 cpu with 1 1/2 gig ram and a Nvidia card. I have used 9.04 since it was released and it was a fine OS no problems ever,..so when the "pop-up" message said 9.10 was available,do you want to upgrade?... I click OK and after an hour or so it was done and rebooted.fast boot and shutdown,looked good, But the problems began when I tried to burn some DVD's 
using K3B as I have done hundreds of times. I found I could no longer use K3B 
It just would not let me,it kept telling me I had no permission to use K3B ! 
also it would not connect to the internet,no matter what I did !
So I said pooey! and got out my **original 9.04 disk** and did a **complete re-install of 9.04** (complete re-format too) 
Now the problems begin! ..I can no longer watch any on-line videos Utube ect ect.
**Firefox loads the CPU to 100 %** Gnome system monitor loads the CPU to 75 % 
The CPU fan sounds like its going to blow from the high rpm's ! But I can now connect to Inet again and K3B works again.........There is surely something going on here with 9.10.
Yup I sure do agree,somethings wrong with 9.10 and[B] it sticks with the computer,even after re-formatting and re-installing 9.04 it just will not work right anymore!.
:confused:
[/B]

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-05
> **zuerston said:**
> -------------------------
Firefox loads the CPU to 100 %[/B] Gnome system monitor loads the CPU to 75 % 
The CPU fan sounds like its going to blow from the high rpm's ! But I can now connect to Inet again and K3B works again.........There is surely something going on here with 9.10.


You have just forgotten you had to fix those things with jaunty just as well. check your own posts. 

Need help on fan control:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7451578&postcount=16](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7451578&postcount=16)

Problems with compiz:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7706848&postcount=11](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7706848&postcount=11)

Then there might be updates you havent done yet and other apps you havent added yet.

There is just no way an OS install or upgrade** after being wiped** is causing "bad karma" to jaunty or something. 

The only thing possibly affected is the user.

---

### Post by zuerston on 2009-11-05
I can wait for 9.10 to be fixed,even wait for 10.4 to come out.......but I need my 9.04 working correctly again!  my above post was long enough and I didn't state everything I did to get stuff working in 9.10 but anyway, im back to 9.04 and thats my real problem now!,, [B]9.10 did something that I cant shake off even being back with 9.04! 
And im not the only one it seems having problems.[/B]

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-05
> **zuerston said:**
> 
And im not the only one it seems having problems.[/B]

You're not the only one drawing very illogical conclusions from what you are seeing and blaming Karmic for things unrelated to it.

---

### Post by zuerston on 2009-11-05
> **P4man said:**
> You have just forgotten you had to fix those things with jaunty just as well. check your own posts. 

Need help on fan control:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7451578&postcount=16](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7451578&postcount=16)

Problems with compiz:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7706848&postcount=11](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7706848&postcount=11)

Then there might be updates you havent done yet and other apps you havent added yet.

There is just no way an OS install or upgrade** after being wiped** is causing "bad karma" to jaunty or something. 

The only thing possibly affected is the user.
Hello
The first link you post of mine was on a laptop I no longer have.
The second link is this computer but I fixed that long ago,by re-installing Compiz and Bleachbit as they were the ones that had the most problem.
This is complete different problem.
I have done all the updates and upgrades with apt-get and set all the settings correctly,installed all the optional stuff I used when it was working good,that's the problem, I have went thru it all and the problems still exist,and they were not there before up-grading to 9.10 ,could it be due to upgrading 9.04 to 9.10 online as compared to a disk install?  all I know is that it is almost un usable now.

---

### Post by mCion on 2009-11-05
P4man:  I agree that it looks like a Hardware issue.  I'm not a hardware wiz, but maybe Karmic 'killed' a bit of my hardware?  This would explain why it "remembers" I installed karmic.  IE, the system was fine before with 9.04.  Now with 9.04 it lock up.

wilee-nilee:  Yes, I downloaded 9.10 and burned the CD, however, that should not be the case (bad cd creating) with 9.04, since I got that CD directly from Canonical (I think it's awesome they send 2 Cd's for free!)

meho_r:  (to try another distro).  I hadn't thought about that.  I'll might try it just in case, but in my mind it would not make sense since the original 9.04 that worked fine before now doesn't.

myromance123: (make sure its a full reinstall).  It 7:14 am here.  besides other days, I stayed until 4 am (the time I put this post here) doing full reinstalls, disk formats, memory checks, etc.  I think I got like 4-5 done in one night.  (I think that's my new record)

you also asked for my specs, here they are
1-Intel Celeron M CPU 440 @ 1.86GHz
2-516 RAM (it has read 489.4 MB forever)
3-Intel integrated chipset GMA950 if I remember correctly
4-Toshiba laptop Satellite L45
5- got this good friend March of 2008.

and thanks for not hating me ;)  (I haven't felt hated by anyone)

MaquinaX : Same anwser as Wilee-nilee...

Kokopelli:  valid point, however, I believe that there are many that are not seeing the "full capacity" of karmic.  We can just google "karmic" in the news section and given that there is no true statistical proof, there are many discontent people with problems.

zuerston:  YES!, similar problems!  same problem with youtube and someitmes my "load" monitor goes crazy.  Although we came through different routes (zuerston upgrades, I did a clean install) we have similar problems.

ANYWAY!, thanx folks for dropping by and leaving your ideas.  I'll obviously post here if I find a specific reason and or solution...

any other ideas are also accepted.  But I agree that quickly fixing problems like these and other more common problems will help Ubuntu moving forward...

---

### Post by praveenthivari on 2009-11-05
> **zuerston said:**
> I can wait for 9.10 to be fixed,even wait for 10.4 to come out.......but I need my 9.04 working correctly again!  my above post was long enough and I didn't state everything I did to get stuff working in 9.10 but anyway, im back to 9.04 and thats my real problem now!,, [B]9.10 did something that I cant shake off even being back with 9.04! 
And im not the only one it seems having problems.[/B]

P4man is right. Instead of starting to blame the OS for things it might not have done at all is just not good. 
As many have told if u have problems with *'Ubuntu'* u can surely try a change and see if it works. Even then if u are dissatisfied u can just try installing Vista or XP back and see if that works again. Or just reformat ur entire drive and then use fresh. That may alleviate all ur doubts or impressions about Karmic.

I have installed Karmic and from installation to using it till now nothing buggy has appeared till now.

---

### Post by zuerston on 2009-11-05
--------------------------
mCion
zuerston: YES!, similar problems! same problem with youtube and someitmes my "load" monitor goes crazy. Although we came through different routes (zuerston upgrades, I did a clean install) we have similar problems.

ANYWAY!, thanx folks for dropping by and leaving your ideas. I'll obviously post here if I find a specific reason and or solution...

any other ideas are also accepted. But I agree that quickly fixing problems like these and other more common problems will help Ubuntu moving forward...

**Hello mCion**
I guess we will just have to waite and see the outcome,I love Ubuntu and do not want to switch brands,im sure all will be fixed in time.I look foreward to your findings!
take care.
---------------------------
praveenthivari
u can just try installing Vista or XP back and see if that works again. Or just reformat ur entire drive and then use fresh. That may alleviate all ur doubts or impressions about Karmic.

**Hello praveenthivari**
I would never have another Micro$oft software on my computer for any purpose! and I have re-formated my hard drive several times actually and the problem persists,somehow,I just cant buy the hardware problem thing! 
thanks for your suggestions, I will now just put up with the problems and waite for a solution.
take care.
-------------------------
zuerston.........standing by and reading
[B]over and out
[/B]

---

### Post by everytimeref on 2009-11-05
I think it makes sense that the early users of Ubuntu are going to be computer enthusiasts happy to sort out problems with their distribution without saying "it's broken" or panicking.

As more users adopt our OS, it's safe to assume that many more of them are going to be a bit less experienced at dealing with problems, and are going to complain a bit.

-Hence your impression that there are lots of people complaining about Karmic.

We all know windows users who are not very It literate, we are going to get more of these type of users running Ubuntu.

What I would say is this: If you don't enjoy sorting out problems on your PC when it goes wrong then wait a month after release before upgrading, you'll find that a lot of the early problems will have been solved and there will be lots of documented fixes for problems you might experience

---

### Post by zuerston on 2009-11-05
> **everytimeref said:**
> I think it makes sense that the early users of Ubuntu are going to be computer enthusiasts happy to sort out problems with their distribution without saying "it's broken" or panicking.

As more users adopt our OS, it's safe to assume that many more of them are going to be a bit less experienced at dealing with problems, and are going to complain a bit.

-Hence your impression that there are lots of people complaining about Karmic.

We all know windows users who are not very It literate, we are going to get more of these type of users running Ubuntu.

**What I would say is this: If you don't enjoy sorting out problems on your PC when it goes wrong then wait a month after release before upgrading, you'll find that a lot of the early problems will have been solved and there will be lots of documented fixes for problems you might experience**

As I have posted above,I am already doing that! I will wait till later and try again.
Maybe the experts will iron out things.
I have used Linux for a couple years,many distro's,don't claim to know much except when its works or not.im not expert but also not beginner,I do use the terminal.

I read somewhere on here about maybe wrong kernel was loaded after upgrade but im back to 9.04 and too lazy to upgrade again for now,especially not knowing exactly what the cause for previous problems were. But somehow 9.04 got trashed in the process.
Maybe this bad dream and will wake up soon :D
):P

---

### Post by meho_r on 2009-11-05
> **zuerston said:**
> ...
So I said pooey! and got out my **original 9.04 disk** and did a **complete re-install of 9.04** (complete re-format too) 
Now the problems begin! ..I can no longer watch any on-line videos Utube ect ect.
**Firefox loads the CPU to 100 %** Gnome system monitor loads the CPU to 75 % 
The CPU fan sounds like its going to blow from the high rpm's ! But I can now connect to Inet again and K3B works again.........There is surely something going on here with 9.10.
Yup I sure do agree,somethings wrong with 9.10 and[B] it sticks with the computer,even after re-formatting and re-installing 9.04 it just will not work right anymore!.
:confused:
[/B]

A question and a suggestion:

Q: When you did reformat partitions does that include your home directory? If you wiped out all except your home directory (which contains all your settings) you didn't do even a half a job. If your settings are screwed you can reformat and reinstall any OS any number of time you like you'll still have problems. So, backup your documents and totally clean up your computer (reformat all Linux-related partitions; don't have to touch those for windows if you have them) and try again.

S: In most cases graphic card's drivers are the cause of problems you have (except K3b, those are settings/permission related). Check them. Try with open-source graphic driver and see how it behaves. Then you may try with proprietary one and compare.

And don't forget that flash+firefox is a nasty combination ;)

---

### Post by abcuser on 2009-11-05
Hi,
just to post some good news instead of this problems full thread. I have installed Ubuntu Karmic on new disk and had no problem at all.

I always do the following way:
1. I have two disks.
2. I physically remove disk with old Ubuntu install from computer and plug in new disk.
3. I install new Ubuntu version and if everything works fine, then I backup data from first disk and restore them on second.

I have never lost any data or corrupted my system. This is the safest way.

I newer upgrade, because then you don't get some new goodies like: grub2, ext4, etc.
Regards

---

### Post by Futurian on 2009-11-05
Most of the problems I read about relating to Karmic are on laptops. Is it generally true that there are fewer issues with Ubuntu on desktops? I have upgraded only two of my four Ubuntu installations to Karmic so far, both on desktops, one running Karmic natively, the other running Karmic under Virtualbox (xp host), and have had little trouble with either.

      How many people dual boot one Ubuntu installation with another? One of my desktops has Jaunty running from one ext3 partition, Karmic running from an ext4 partition, and another (ext3) partition holding my home directory. If one installation gives me problems, I can always use the other.

     Many thanks to the good people who make Ubuntu work.

---

### Post by zuerston on 2009-11-05
> **meho_r said:**
> A question and a suggestion:

Q: When you did reformat partitions does that include your home directory? If you wiped out all except your home directory (which contains all your settings) you didn't do even a half a job. If your settings are screwed you can reformat and reinstall any OS any number of time you like you'll still have problems. So, backup your documents and totally clean up your computer (reformat all Linux-related partitions; don't have to touch those for windows if you have them) and try again.

S: In most cases graphic card's drivers are the cause of problems you have (except K3b, those are settings/permission related). Check them. Try with open-source graphic driver and see how it behaves. Then you may try with proprietary one and compare.

And don't forget that flash+firefox is a nasty combination ;)

Read my posts,I did COMPLETE format of entire hard drive ,nothing saved,,DELETED the partition too and let Ubuntu re do it all ,told installer use entire drive. correct Nvidia Video drivers were among the first things installed in both 9.10 and 9.04 installs
I fixed the permission thing for K3B and then something else pops up saying cant do this cant do that !  it just don't work.
I didnt care about 9.10 not working right but now 9.04 is crap after 9.10 was installed and thats what I dont like.
You people don't know any more about these problems with 9.10 than I do, (I didn't say linux, I said these problems with 9.10) Some say install a different OS ,well most that do will not come back to Ubuntu,why would they? if they find something that works ?
This release of 9.10 will surely hurt Ubuntu before it is debugged.

---

### Post by meho_r on 2009-11-05
> **zuerston said:**
> Read my posts,I did COMPLETE format of entire hard drive ,nothing saved,,DELETED the partition too and let Ubuntu re do it all ,told installer use entire drive. correct Nvidia Video drivers were among the first things installed in both 9.10 and 9.04 installs
I fixed the permission thing for K3B and then something else pops up saying cant do this cant do that !  it just don't work.
I didnt care about 9.10 not working right but now 9.04 is crap after 9.10 was installed and thats what I dont like.
You people don't know any more about these problems with 9.10 than I do, (I didn't say linux, I said these problems with 9.10) Some say install a different OS ,well most that do will not come back to Ubuntu,why would they? if they find something that works ?
This release of 9.10 will surely hurt Ubuntu before it is debugged.

Well if something else works and Ubuntu doesn't they shouldn't return then (or at least wait a month or so, or the next edition). Trying another distro will narrow the possible source of problems: is it hardware or software related. If every distro behaves in the same manner, one should inspect computer's hardware then.

And, as I said, graphic card's driver can be the weak point. If computer freezes and behaves strangely, the best bet is proprietary driver for graphic card -- so one should try with driver that comes with Ubuntu, not proprietary one, and see how it behaves for couple of hours at least.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-05
> **Futurian said:**
> Most of the problems I read about relating to Karmic are on laptops. Is it generally true that there are fewer issues with Ubuntu on desktops? 

I think thats a fair assumption. And not only valid for ubuntu, but for linux in general. Notebooks tend to have more specialised components, custom bioses (geared at improving power management with a specific OS), specific mobile gpu's, device specific keys (multimedia keys and BIOS specific brightness / display / wireless / powermanagement keys), unbranded and obscure (no pun intended) webcams, then there is touchpads, fingerprint sensors, they all have wifi and often 3G.   They are also for 99% oem machines, where as many desktops are generic whiteboxes built using high volume off the shelve components or are homebuilt. OEM is usually bad for linux, as OEMs try (too) hard to differentiate themselves from the competition using proprietary addons or solutions. You are much less likely to encounter any issues using off the shelve components. Home built rocks for linux.

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-11-05
> **mCion said:**
> Sometimes it's good to hear the good and the bad.  My hope is that in the future Ubuntu will be a stable, ***reliable system***.  No one likes to have lots of "cool looking features" if your system crashes often.  My other hope is to get my computer working again, how it was before Karmic, but that looks kind of hard right now as I've run out of ideas.
I agree with you there, but as has been said many times before; running off and installing an OS a few days after it's release is asking for trouble.

If you want stability install an LTS 1-2 months after it's released and you'll have an extremely stable system. For me, Hardy was without doubt the most stable OS I ever used, so much so I ended up running it until about a month ago, and I'm still running it on my home built Desktop.

---

### Post by leandromartinez98 on 2009-11-05
> **zuerston said:**
> -------------------------
[B] it sticks with the computer,even after re-formatting and re-installing 9.04 it just will not work right anymore!.
:confused:
[/B]

You better search some spirit conceil. Try exocirsm.

---

### Post by leandromartinez98 on 2009-11-05
> **zuerston said:**
> 
I didnt care about 9.10 not working right but now 9.04 is crap after 9.10 was installed and thats what I dont like.


I'm sorry, but either you now have a hardware problem or this is nonsense.

---

### Post by t0p on 2009-11-05
I just can't believe some of the crazy superstitious stuff some of you are coming out with.  I say "superstitious" because that's the only word for it: you are expecting us to believe that 9.10 has had some kind of magical effect on your computers.

If you reformat, then install 9.04, it is *impossible* for a previous installation of 9.10 to cause 9.04 to crash/freeze/whatever.  And you know that's the case.  At least, I hope you know it.

Magic Linux.  Now I've heard it all...

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-05
> **mCion said:**
> P4man:  I agree that it looks like a Hardware issue.  I'm not a hardware wiz, but maybe Karmic 'killed' a bit of my hardware?  This would explain why it "remembers" I installed karmic.  IE, the system was fine before with 9.04.  Now with 9.04 it lock up.

Seems about as likely as catching a flu over the telephone. No, its all but impossible. What is possible is that your hardware was already failing, or that you made changes to it that you have since forgotten about (different bios settings, or you applied some tricks or kernel parameters to jaunty that you forgot about.

> Kokopelli:  valid point, however, I believe that there are many that are not seeing the "full capacity" of karmic.  We can just google "karmic" in the news section and given that there is no true statistical proof, there are many discontent people with problems.

Sure there are problems with Karmic, that will bite some people, as has happened  with every previous ubuntu release, ( and every linux release, every OS release). So you see an influx of new forum posters coming here looking for help or to vent their frustration, thats entirely expected. If forum posts are a measure of anything (and I dont think they are) then Karmic seems pretty solid. I really cant say Ive seen a lot more problems posted this week than any other week. When jaunty came out, I recall a bigger outcry and more frustration.

---

### Post by PRC09 on 2009-11-05
Quote:
hello
I am having the same problems,I am running a Dell Optiplex GX270 2.8 gig HT P4 cpu with 1 1/2 gig ram and a Nvidia card. I have used 9.04 since it was released and it was a fine OS no problems ever,..so when the "pop-up" message said 9.10 was available,do you want to upgrade?... I click OK and after an hour or so it was done and rebooted.fast boot and shutdown,looked good, But the problems began when I tried to burn some DVD's
using K3B as I have done hundreds of times. I found I could no longer use K3B
It just would not let me,it kept telling me I had no permission to use K3B !
also it would not connect to the internet,no matter what I did !
So I said pooey! and got out my original 9.04 disk and did a complete re-install of 9.04 (complete re-format too)
Now the problems begin! ..I can no longer watch any on-line videos Utube ect ect.
Firefox loads the CPU to 100 % Gnome system monitor loads the CPU to 75 %
The CPU fan sounds like its going to blow from the high rpm's ! But I can now connect to Inet again and K3B works again.........There is surely something going on here with 9.10.
Yup I sure do agree,somethings wrong with 9.10 and it sticks with the computer,even after re-formatting and re-installing 9.04 it just will not work right anymore!.

  This particular model had  specific documented problems with the bios and Linux for all distros..Also the video chipset gave problems.SO maybe you have a video card issue,other bios or hardware issue and not a Ubuntu issue.....

---

### Post by t0p on 2009-11-05
This is crazy.  I'm no expert, but I don't see how it can be possible that 9.10 has somehow "damaged" your computers in the way you describe.

If anyone more knowledgeable than me can explain how 9.10's evil influence could survive a reformat, please do so.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-05
> **t0p said:**
> 
If anyone more knowledgeable than me can explain how 9.10's evil influence could survive a reformat, please do so.

Its easy when you think about it. A broken karmic upgrade can indeed have a lingering effect. For sure. Its stored in semi volatile memory, that is pretty resistant to formattting.It will last for days, weeks and potentially longer. And can affect various machines on the same network

The best way to overwrite it is doing a successful upgrade to Karmic. Anything else will keep that effect in semi volatile memory for months, in some cases longer. Its probably possible to erase it still without successful Karmic upgrade, but the methods are risky and somewhat unproven. Its called brainwashing. The semi volatile memory I am referring to, is the users brain.

---

### Post by itsjustarumour on 2009-11-05
> **P4man said:**
> If you're having problems with 9.04 where it worked fine before, I bet you it has nothing to do with Karmic but everything with your machine. You may have bad ram or a dying harddisk

With all due respect, you're talking complete poppycock.  I have 3 different machines, all of which worked fine under Jaunty and all of which are having serious problems with Karmic.  All of them dual boot with other distros and/or WinXP.  Only the Karmic installations have problems, the worst being the now-well-known complete disaster that in Karmic with Intel i915 graphics, and one of the others is having kernel errors.  This has absolutely nothing to do with hardware problems, and everything to do with Karmic

If you don't have good advice to offer, then please refrain from such comments. They don't help anybody to solve their problems.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-05
> **itsjustarumour said:**
> With all due respect, you're talking complete poppycock. .

You may want to reread what you just commented to. Unless you also believe that formatting karmic and reinstalling jaunty will still cause karmic's bugs to render your Jaunty machines unstable.

I never claimed karmic was issue free, but after FORMATTING your disk entirely and reinstalling jaunty, which apparently worked perfectly 6 months ago on the same machine,  your machine STILL crashes and freezes, it seems reasonable to assume somthing else is at hand. Or is that "poppycock" ?

---

### Post by t0p on 2009-11-05
> **itsjustarumour said:**
> With all due respect, you're talking complete poppycock.  I have 3 different machines, all of which worked fine under Jaunty and all of which are having serious problems with Karmic.  All of them dual boot with other distros and/or WinXP.  Only the Karmic installations have problems, the worst being the now-well-known complete disaster that in Karmic with Intel i915 graphics, and one of the others is having kernel errors.  This has absolutely nothing to do with hardware problems, and everything to do with Karmic

If you don't have good advice to offer, then please refrain from such comments. They don't help anybody to solve their problems.

You ought to try reading what you're responding to *before* you respond.  It will help you to avoid looking stupid.

P4Man did *not* say Karmic has no problems.  He said it is impossible for a Karmic install to somehow affect the computer after the drive is reformatted.

Read the thread through, and you'll see how daft you now look.

---

### Post by ivanvajar on 2009-11-05
Let's see what happens to Koala in few months. It's common for OS to have problems at the begginning.

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-05
> **itsjustarumour said:**
> With all due respect

I stopped reading after that, realizing that what followed would lack any semblance of respect.

-10 on the respect scale to you, sir.


> **ivanvajar**: Let's see what happens to Koala in few months. It's common for OS to have problems at the begginning.

Agreed.

It's also worth pointing out that *some* people will upgrade because they're having problems.

Many of *those* people have hardware problems.

---

### Post by Cha1ns on 2009-11-05
First of all, I'd like to say that there is nothing 9.10 can do to damage your computer, but that simply isn't true. 

Some of you probably haven't been using Ubuntu long enough to know about this very serious bug with Ubuntu and laptop hard drives:

[http://ubuntudemon.wordpress.com/2007/10/26/laptop-hardrive-killer-bug/](http://ubuntudemon.wordpress.com/2007/10/26/laptop-hardrive-killer-bug/)

Now if you DON'T have a laptop, or have been using the fix since 2007, I'd say it's Extremely unlikely that any piece of software can actually Damage your hardware. Even the nastiest viruses cannot do that.

Reformat and install your old O/S if it doesn't work, then you have a hardware problem. I am well versed in hardware if your having crashing problems here's your troubleshooting list:

0. Remove any extra hardware not needed for system to boot: Extra graphics card, USB hubs, printers, sound card, floppy drive everything!

Check all the cables and connections to make sure they are good, reseat the cables, cards, and ram. Check to make sure the machine isn't dirty and is not over heating. (Verify temperature by touch or in the bios.) Wouldn't hurt to plug your machine into a new UPS as the crashing problems could be a problem with your wall power. Make sure your using known working power outlets. Trade outlets with another machine that's working fine. 

1. Bad power supply; Test with known good working supply of sufficient wattage for your system.

2. Bad Ram; Remove one stick, test, remove other stick, test again, remove both sticks and test with known working stick.

3. Bad Hard disk; Replace with known working disk and try again.

4. Bad mother board; Replace whole machine and test again.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2009-11-05
> **leandromartinez98 said:**
> You better search some spirit conceil. Try exocirsm.


Broken hardware through software used to happen;was it an Intrepid beta (or alpha? A driver overwrote something in intel networkcards eeprom so they could not be turned on again by the kernel on restart:

[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/fix-for-intel-cards-with-broken-eeprom-e100-driver.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/fix-for-intel-cards-with-broken-eeprom-e100-driver.html)

So,this is not absolutely impossible.
Of course we are not talking about broken network cards;but stop joking at him please.
Instead of exorcism,pull out your laptop battery a few minutes,locate the c-mos battery (have fun) also,if no jumper reachable for c-mos reset (do not know howto on a laptop).After you did you can be **sure** the
evil had gone...
And if it is not,it will be the harddisc.
BTW,the laptop did not fall down somewhere since Karmic?

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-05
I'm actually writing this from Vista, since my Karmic installation is completely unstable. I had never even booted into Vista before now except to resize the partition and install Ubuntu. And frankly given how incredibly problematic it is for me so far, Vista actually looks pretty damn good (THAT'S how bad Karmic has treated me!).

Maybe it was to be expected: If you name your release "Karmic", you're tempting fate.

I think that my problems are not specifically related to Ubuntu but to the new kernel. Apparently there will be a new one released very soon that addresses a number of severe regressions and bugs (including the root hack vulnerability, although that doesn't affect Ubuntu). If that doesn't keep my laptop from constantly crashing and freezing I'm going to have to install another distro (Debian or OpenSuse, I imagine).

I've been using Ubuntu exclusively for over two years now, and I'd really like to continue doing so. I suffered through six months of video glitches in Jaunty (due to its Intel video issues) without complaint, but Karmic just doesn't work on my Lenovo Y530 at all. I'd say that it's a pretty major flaw when your new release pushes committed users away.

As far as whether installing Karmic could cause problems even after returning to Jaunty is concerned, I could see that happening if the MBR were affected by Grub2 and not overwritten in the reinstall (though I've never seen that happen personally).

---

### Post by fela on 2009-11-05
I feel your pain, Ubuntu 9.10 wouldn't work at all on my computer, it didn't even boot, it didn't even begin booting - before people start raving about my possibly customized-maybe weird nfs root drive setup thingy, no. It was a bog standard sata drive and I even chose the default 'use whole hard drive' option...so it SHOULD have worked. I suspect it didn't bother building the initramfs or something.

But then I tried the Kubuntu 9.10 live/install cd and it was awesome! I installed it and it surpassed all expectations - I advise you to at least try the livecd, and if you have an nvidia card to install the proprietary nvidia drivers while you're on the livecd, so you get the 'full experience' (I cringe at those words!). You don't need to restart after installing the drivers, you just need to restart X (logout/back in again). Also just so you know I had a problem on the livecd where it didn't automatically start X - all it required was a

```
sudo start kde
```

As karmic uses a new 'upstart' boot up manager thingamebob which simplifies things a bit.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-05
> **fela said:**
> But then I tried the Kubuntu 9.10 live/install cd and it was awesome!

I may have to give that a try, although I really like Gnome so it might not be my cup of tea. I was thinking of trying out Sidux or just plain Debian. Right now stability is my overriding priority.

---

### Post by geoffree on 2009-11-05
Right on with your remarks.  I upgraded to Koala because of resolution problems with 9.04. This was going to finally be a working process rather than a work in progress.
But I had all of the weird activity you report.  Random crashes...fixed resolution. Now the 'shutdown' app. doesn't turn off my computer as is normal.  I fixed the resolution problem with help from another user in the forum. The worst problem is that this wonderful warm Ubuntu company is suddenly nowhere to be found.  Why isn't there a statement to us loyal users and to others who righfully criticize this state of affairs. (There's an article in Linux Mag. headlined "Hey Ubuntu, stop making Linux look bad."  This is a shanda. 

Of all the gripes "the silence of the core group, is one that gripes me the most.  I see the same smiley tech icon at his desk inviting all to join the community but he's not there when needed.  I downloaded SuSE, my first distro love and the Live CD looks very good. And, whatta you know?  It works!  I hope that other Ubuntu users who are primarily Linux users speak out and that the Ubu group make themselves visible.

There...

Geoffree

---

### Post by munkifisht on 2009-11-05
Can't agree. I I moving back to Ubuntu on my main machine because cos 9.04 would not work with it (bad graphics, dodgy sound, no wireless network) and they were problems that many hours of work did not seem to fix. I just installed 9.10 today, and everything worked first time so far. My experience this time has been quite excelent.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-05
you dont have to agree or disagree on anything other than it works for some (probably even most) but it doesnt work for everyone. Try before you buy :)
That goes for any linux distribution on just about any machine. I think we can also agree it must be frustrating if jaunty worked great on your machine and karmic doesnt, or doesnt yet.

It still doesnt change the fact the the OP and the other poster have almost certainly got hardware issues regardless of any karmic bugs. Not because karmic has problems but because both karmic and jaunty give problems where jaunty allegedly worked fine 6 months ago. Either hardware or bios changed, hardware has gone haywire or we are not getting accurate assessments.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-11-05
whoops, never mind... I thought this was Community Cafe... but it's not (yet?)

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-11-05
> **michaelzap said:**
> I may have to give that a try, although I really like Gnome so it might not be my cup of tea. I was thinking of trying out Sidux or just plain Debian. Right now stability is my overriding priority.
If you're set on Ubuntu, Hardy is your best bet there. 
I still have it on my homebuilt desktop for exactly the same reason.

---

### Post by Szise on 2009-11-05
9.10 is better in my opinion, i have an old PC, 3 years old, my video card is "expired" but i can enjoy Ubuntu 9.10, other versions didn't worked.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-11-05
> **michaelzap said:**
> I may have to give that a try, although I really like Gnome so it might not be my cup of tea. I was thinking of trying out Sidux or just plain Debian. Right now stability is my overriding priority.

Sidux does not support Gnome, end of conversation. Debian Stable/Lenny is an excellent, super-stable Gnome distro. (You can add the backports repo if you need newer apps like a more recent OpenOffice.)

---

### Post by fela on 2009-11-05
> **Cha1ns said:**
> Now if you DON'T have a laptop, or have been using the fix since 2007, I'd say it's Extremely unlikely that any piece of software can actually Damage your hardware. Even the nastiest viruses cannot do that.

I once broke my mum's WD portable drive that was her birthday present, by plugging it into my computer which then had windows on it with a program that was supposed to automatically defragment the drive. I don't know what it did but the drive suffered a stuck head/head crash shortly after. Luckily it was still under warranty and all of the data was backed up (lucky - it was her MSc stuff and if it was lost it would have been a catastrophe).

---

### Post by fela on 2009-11-05
> **snowpine said:**
> Sidux does not support Gnome, end of conversation. Debian Stable/Lenny is an excellent, super-stable Gnome distro. (You can add the backports repo if you need newer apps like a more recent OpenOffice.)

Or you can use apt pinning. Don't ask me how, I never figured it out.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-11-05
> **fela said:**
> Or you can use apt pinning. Don't ask me how, I never figured it out.

Without getting too off-topic for an Ubuntu forum... ;) ... apt-pinning is recommended for Debian users who want to run a mixed testing/unstable system. A **very** rough analogy is using PPAs in Ubuntu... you want some apps and core packages to be stable-ish, and others to be the latest version. 

It is not recommended to mix Debian Stable with anything else (other than backports) because, well, I don't know how else to say it without using the word "stable". :) If you want "Debian Stable with OpenOffice 3.x" you don't run mixed Debian stable/unstable; you run Debian stable with backports (or simply install the version you want from openoffice.org).

---

### Post by ubunny on 2009-11-05
just found this thread...

yep, I went back to Jaunty 9.04 .  I'll consider upgrading again when safe-upgrade is in fact the truth.  Right on the heels of Windows 7 release too!  What a disaster for Ubuntu!!  Not how you're going to convert users with such a low no-problem success rate.  ..Duh...  

I'm glad I had burned the Jaunty 9.04 cdrom previously so I could run the livecd and reload.  Still have to play around with all the issue Jaunty threw at me, which were a lot, but at least I know what they are ;)

If this continues, and Ubuntu goes downhill, I'll try the Debian stable/testing route or even Arch if I have the time.

Jaunty was no spring chicken for me either.  The quality of testing has dropped like a stone and with the "Karmic" release so has more testing it seems.  I know it's only the beginning and fixes are no doubt on the way, but if this keeps up Ubuntu will be over for me.

Pure Debian with backports or whatever should do the trick.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-05
> **ubunny said:**
>  such a low no-problem success rate.  ..Duh...  


How low do you think it is?  Among the posters posting in a "Karmic=vista?" thread its pretty significant, but among all users how would you possibly know?

---

### Post by Larry Linux on 2009-11-05
I'll add my two cents to the discussion as well...

In my opinion, Ubuntu 8.04 LTS is the most stable and reliable os I've ever used, with 9.04 very stable as well. No matter what computer I run, I feel confident that 8.04 and 9.04 will work, and they have.

I'll be the first to admit the 9.10 is very buggy, at least it is on laptops. Having said that, Ubuntu developers might not be entirely to blame. 9.10 uses a new kernel, and gnome released a new product that is used with 9.10 as well. At first I blamed it all on Ubuntu, but then I waited until Mandriva 2010 was released yesterday. **After testing Mandriva 2010 using gnome, it suffers many of the same bugs as does Ubuntu !!** In fact, the latest Mandriva is worse than Vista in my opinion. The point is, perhaps many of the bugs are the fault of the gnome developers, and not the distro developers at Ubuntu and Mandriva.

Finally, in six months the next long term release will be out, ie, 10.04. I suspect many of the bugs we are experiencing now will be fixed and 10.04 will be every bit at reliable as 8.04. But until then, I'm sticking with 8.04 or 9.04 on laptops.

---

### Post by ubunny on 2009-11-05
> **P4man said:**
> How low do you think it is?  Among the posters posting in a "Karmic=vista?" thread its pretty significant, but among all users how would you possibly know?

@P4man
Here's my former krazy karmic [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lRoMuY4bDPk](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lRoMuY4bDPk) .  

So I gave up on it.  Much like I'm giving up on your trolling.

@Larry Linux
Thanks, I'll stick to 9.04 on my laptop for now.  If I wanted stability, I should have chosen stability (Debian)

---

### Post by Kokopelli on 2009-11-05
Well I thought I would chime in and say Kubuntu Karmic has been working very well for me.  I have it on 2 desktops, a HP DV7, a Thinkpad X31, X60, and an X200 Tablet.  On all of these systems it is performing quite well, not counting some need for hand configuring a few things.  Most importantly for me suspend to RAM seems to be working reliably on all of the systems.  On the Desktops suspend did not work at all on Jaunty and it was unreliable on all the laptops with the exception of the X31.  Sound configuration seems to be where I had the most trouble for Karmic.  Overall, for me at least, it is a significant improvement over Jaunty.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-05
> **Larry Linux said:**
> Having said that, Ubuntu developers might not be entirely to blame. 9.10 uses a new kernel, and gnome released a new product that is used with 9.10 as well. At first I blamed it all on Ubuntu, but then I waited until Mandriva 2010 was released yesterday. **After testing Mandriva 2010 using gnome, it suffers many of the same bugs as does Ubuntu !!**

Very true. Unfortunately it's also kind of disheartening because it means that I'm likely to experience the same issues in any "cutting-edge" Gnome distro on my laptop. At least you saved me the trouble of downloading Mandriva to try it out (not that it was very high on my list of possibilities).

---

### Post by Larry Linux on 2009-11-05
> 
@Larry Linux
Thanks, I'll stick to 9.04 on my laptop for now.  If I wanted stability, I should have chosen stability (Debian)Well, that depends on which Debian you choose. If you go with Debian Lenny stable, you'll have a very reliable system but you'll have outdated applications such as the Iceweasel browser. If you don't plan on going on the internet, no problem - but if you want a secure browser for surfing the internet, you need an updated browser. Unfortunately, Debian stable doesn't have one in their repositories. Therefore, to get the most current applications and browsers, you would need to use Debian testing or Debian unstable, which DO have the updated and current Iceweasel browsers. But if you use Debian unstable, basically you are using Ubuntu - as Ubuntu's base is derived from Debian unstable.

Personally, I find Debian a pain to install, not because it's difficult, but because it is far more time consuming than a typical Ubuntu install.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-11-05
> **Larry Linux said:**
> Well, that depends on which Debian you choose. If you go with Debian Lenny stable, you'll have a very reliable system but you'll have outdated applications such as the Iceweasel browser. If you don't plan on going on the internet, no problem - but if you want a secure browser for surfing the internet, you need an updated browser. Unfortunately, Debian stable doesn't have one in their repositiories. 

Wrong; Firefox/Iceweasel 3.0.x is a secure and well-tested release that receives regular security patches. FF 3.0.x will receive security updates until *at least* April 2011. The thought that surfing the web with Debian Stable is riskier than Karmic is, frankly, laughable. :)

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-05
> **mCion said:**
> I know everybody will hate me for posting this, but nonetheless it's constructive criticism and from my point of view, it's close to the truth.

One year using Ubuntu and I love it.  I thought it would just keep on getting better, until I installed Karmic, and everything went downhill.

Why a comparison to Vista?

Vista was released BEFORE it was ready as it should have been, therefore it was very unstable, ate a TON of resources, etc.  Sure it ****looked**** really nice, but it was a piece of junk.  Actually it was the disgusting Windows Vista that made me look into Ubuntu (for which I'm thankful).  Like me, many people left the windows environment because of the Vista mess.

The problem with Karmic?

Out too soon!(or tried to do too much in little time, since Ubuntu has scheduled releases)  Sure, it sounds really nice to have cloud computing integrated with you OS, to have ext4 filesystem set to default, faster boot times, new look, new Ubuntu Software Center, etc etc. 
The bottom line, a very unstable incomplete OS.  Just look at the forums!, they are full of crashes, no sound, etc.  

My example, installed 9.10.  I get several "serious kernel problems" but the machine runs.  Just a few days in, my once very stable laptop freezes all the time.  I dont even remember the last time I manually shut down the computer (ok, maybe I got to do it like 3 times... out of 50).

I've tried everything!, going back to 9.04 with ext4, 9.10 and 9.04 with ext3 and nothing!!.  It now freezes all the time.  I cant even return to the previous state of my machine before I installed the "Killer Koala".

I can't watch any videos for more than 3 minutes online, besides the completely RANDOM crashes.

I'm one Ubuntu user that is NOT happy with my system like this.

Sometimes it's good to hear the good and the bad.  My hope is that in the future Ubuntu will be a stable, ***reliable system***.  No one likes to have lots of "cool looking features" if your system crashes often.  My other hope is to get my computer working again, how it was before Karmic, but that looks kind of hard right now as I've run out of ideas.

Ubuntu 9.10 is Ubuntu's best release. Just because you have a special needs system, you can't blame Ubuntu.

I have installed Karmic at least ten times since it has released and I have had Zero problems. As one of my buddies has said, "Maybe the problem is located somewhere between the keyboard and the seat."

If you really felt happy with 9.04, why upgrade, oh there may be your problem, you upgraded when everyone was saying to do a clean install. 

Almost every post about a system being broke when using Karmic, is made by people who have upgraded instead of doing a clean install. 

Upgrading is for people who know what they are doing. You can't just click the upgrade button.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-05
> **Larry Linux said:**
> Well, that depends on which Debian you choose. If you go with Debian Lenny stable, you'll have a very reliable system but you'll have outdated applications such as the Iceweasel browser. If you don't plan on going on the internet, no problem - but if you want a secure browser for surfing the internet, you need an updated browser. Unfortunately, Debian stable doesn't have one in their repositories. Therefore, to get the most current applications and browsers, you would need to use Debian testing or Debian unstable, which DO have the updated and current Iceweasel browsers. But if you use Debian unstable, basically you are using Ubuntu - as Ubuntu's base is derived from Debian unstable.

Personally, I find Debian a pain to install, not because it's difficult, but because it is far more time consuming than a typical Ubuntu install.

Debian Lenny AND Squeeze come with Iceweasel. I installed Debian Squeeze last weekend and it was almost identical, except for the lack of programs that Ubuntu adds in for a better feel.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-05
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> Almost every post about a system being broke when using Karmic, is made by people who have upgraded instead of doing a clean install.

This is an assumption based on your anecdotal observations, and not at all consistent with what I've seen in the forums. In fact I've been surprised by the number of people (myself included) who have critical issues after doing clean installs on relatively new and standard hardware. When my previous installations have worked out well I've tried to help people who weren't having as fortunate an experience, and now that the shoe is on the other foot I would expect that people with better luck would be supportive instead of playing "blame the victim" (and generally this is the case in the Ubuntu community).

---

### Post by xenogia on 2009-11-05
I installed Karmic on my machine and it runs great, the only issue I had was trying to find a satisfactory mplayer-vdpau ppa that was nothing to do with Karmic at all.  If anything I would like back is the alsa mixer from 9.04.  But other than that it is fantastic.

---

### Post by ubunny on 2009-11-05
Thanks again.  Debian Testing sounds better if Ubuntu is basically a version of Debian Unstable.  That one stage difference alone would mean stable-ish software and reasonably up to date releases (no Karmic Krash).  I realize I don't really need bleeding edge.  I think I'll try it later but not now.  On the plus side, this experience has put in mind to migrate to Debian so I'm collecting scripts and settings specific to my hardware, which is always a good idea anyway.  Ubuntu Jaunty is up and running fast and fine again (after some Broadcom gymnastics).  I also went straight back to Firefox and not Shiretoko for the time being.

To All:

I'm also concerned on the deference to blame the user so far in this thread for no other reason than the install didn't work.  Many users have used Ubuntu for many years and are hardly new or trolling their concerns.  Koala has bitten off more than it can chew and for a lot of us, that's a real loss.  No need to rub it in is there?  I've been a user since Badger btw.

All computers react differently, but overtly alienating a group that would normally offer you support with your own problems is not how a community runs, just so you know.  

If you're running Karmic well, that's good.  I'm glad it worked out for you.  Clearly it also had nothing to do with the person between keyboard and chair either.

---

### Post by Larry Linux on 2009-11-05
> **snowpine said:**
> Wrong; Firefox/Iceweasel 3.0.x is a secure and well-tested release that receives regular security patches. FF 3.0.x will receive security updates until *at least* April 2011. The thought that surfing the web with Debian Stable is riskier than Karmic is, frankly, laughable. :)

First of all, FireFox isn't in ANY of the Debian repositories, Iceweasel is. And Iceweasel is the generic form of Firefox as most know. But that's not the point anyway. The fact is, if you do a fresh install of Debian Lenny stable, and then do an update of all the installed packages (including Iceweasel) you will NOT get the most current patched version of Iceweasel. In fact, doing a fresh install of Lenny stable won't get you the most current kernel or most of the current popular applications either. Try it out for yourself - and then I'll wait for your apology.

One could download and install FireFox directly from the Mozilla website and get the most current brower, and I never denied that. What I said was that a user cannot get the most current Iceweasel browser from the Debian Lenny stable repositories. Usually there is a lag time of one or two releases - if not more - in the Debian stable repositories. But as I stated, if you want the current FireFox in Lenny stable, just download it from Mozilla, then unpack the tar, then hope you know what you are doing to get it installed properly on your desktop. I'm sure most newbees will have little difficulty with that. LOL

As for overall security between Ubuntu and Debian, that's an interesting debate, but since Ubuntu is based on Debian, the similarities far outweigh the differences. The fact is, when there is a major security breach at Debian, the patch to fix it usually goes through the pipeline real quick to all the other distros that are based on Debian, including Ubuntu, Mint, Mepis, etc...And there have been a few instances where Debian missed a few security holes that were only discovered by hackers using Debian as a base.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-11-05
> **Larry Linux said:**
> The fact is, if you do a fresh install of Debian Lenny stable, and then do an update of all the installed packages (including Iceweasel) you will NOT get the most current patched version of Iceweasel. In fact, doing a fresh install of Lenny stable won't get you the most current kernel or most of the current popular applications either. Try it out for yourself - and then I'll wait for your apology.


I owe you a sincere apology; I thought Debian Stable was the freshest version with the latest, most bleeding-edge applications and kernel... but I guess I got it backwards. :(

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-05
> **michaelzap said:**
> This is an assumption based on your anecdotal observations, and not at all consistent with what I've seen in the forums. In fact I've been surprised by the number of people (myself included) who have critical issues after doing clean installs on relatively new and standard hardware. When my previous installations have worked out well I've tried to help people who weren't having as fortunate an experience, and now that the shoe is on the other foot I would expect that people with better luck would be supportive instead of playing "blame the victim" (and generally this is the case in the Ubuntu community).

If this were a help request thread, I would be offering help, but I don't believe in feeding trolls. People now this is a new release and they have to be ready to fall back to their back-ups. So why, if they need true stability and have no want for working out the problem, are peopling blaming Ubuntu for not designing Ubuntu to work with their one specific system.

I know that every time I install a Linux OS other than Fedora, that the first thing I had to do was find the nvidia drivers and get them going so that I could see the screen. If for some reason that this did not work in Karmic, being that VBox doesn't make the virtual OS use it's drivers, I was ready to reinstall Karmic and run APTonCD to get my programs back to the "never missed a beat" status that it was at.

With clean installs, I would point at the most common problem with the lack of running the image checksums and the check disk option within the Disk's boot screen. I know there is unsupported hardware out there and this should show with a LiveCD session before installing. 

I ran Karmic in a VBox all the way up until it stopped having issues on my system, only then did I upgrade.

I stand by what I said about most of the people complaining being blind upgraders and very few of them being clean installers.

---

### Post by Larry Linux on 2009-11-05
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> 
I stand by what I said about most of the people complaining being blind upgraders and very few of them being clean installers.

I can't speak for others, nor should you. All I can say is that I've never done an upgrade install, and I only deal with clean installs. And for me, 9.10 has major problems because of the inability of the LiveCD to boot. Numerous threads have been posted by dozens of posters using a clean install with similar problems. And the problem isn't only with Ubuntu, but Mandriva gnome as well.

---

### Post by ElSlunko on 2009-11-05
9.10 Ubuntu's Vista? Na, I don't think I'll have to wait 3 years for a $150 service pack.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-05
Many people run karmic without issue. Just because it does not run well on *your* particular hardware does not mean it is bad. You can't expect it to run perfect on every computer in the world. Just use what works and be happy.

There will be people that can't run win7 either, but it doesn't mean it is bad. You need to match the hardware with the software.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-05
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> I stand by what I said about most of the people complaining being blind upgraders and very few of them being clean installers.

Then you continue to stand on a shaky assumption based on no evidence.

Voicing a negative opinion (even complaining) is not the same as trolling.

In my case, for example, I did a checksum on my install CD (the first one I burned was in fact bad) and did a clean install using the alternative CD on a laptop that is less than a year old. I tested this laptop with the Live CD of the RC and it seemed fine, but that may have just been luck (since I only tried it for about an hour or so). I'm plenty willing and able to get under the hood and fix things when necessary, but so far it seems that my issues won't be resolved until the new kernel is released (if then).

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-11-05
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> I stand by what I said about most of the people complaining being blind upgraders and very few of them being clean installers.

9.10 crashes and burns on my desktop due to my unsupported graphics card; doesn't matter at all whether I upgrade or do a fresh install... it crashes within 5 seconds!

In Canonical's defense, however, it is an upstream bug. It's not "Karmic's fault" at all, and I'm sure a fix will come through updates eventually.

---

### Post by Kokopelli on 2009-11-05
> **ubunny said:**
>  I'm also concerned on the deference to blame the user so far in this thread for no other reason than the install didn't work.  Many users have used Ubuntu for many years and are hardly new or trolling their concerns.  Koala has bitten off more than it can chew and for a lot of us, that's a real loss.  No need to rub it in is there?  I've been a user since Badger btw.

All computers react differently, but overtly alienating a group that would normally offer you support with your own problems is not how a community runs, just so you know.  

If you're running Karmic well, that's good.  I'm glad it worked out for you.  Clearly it also had nothing to do with the person between keyboard and chair either.

Balderdash.  All problems can be laid at the feet of the distribution. You could say that any failure of the user was due to the installer not being clear enough if you want to.  More practically:

- In the multitude of hardware configurations that are used some will have problems.
- In the effort to advance the product bugs will be introduced.

You are never going to have a perfect distro, the goal is to have one as bug free as possible.  I do not want to defend Karmic but at the same time think many are doing it a disservice.  Karmic has a few more problems than Jaunty did but it is hardly the "worst release ever."  With every new release there are at least a few people who insist the sky is falling.  And perhaps for them it is, but that does not mean everyone (or even most) are having problems.  

If an individual wants help getting Karmic to work then they can post their problems in the Installation forum and the community will try and help them.  If they want to post "Karmic sucks I am going to <insert something not Ubuntu>" or "Kubuntu does not work" without an attempt to work through their problems then there is little we can say other than good bye.  I am always saddened when someone sincerely tries to get an install working and fails.  On the other hand I do not really miss those who just rant.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-05
> **Kokopelli said:**
> Balderdash.  All problems can be laid at the feet of the distribution. You could say that any failure of the user was due to the installer not being clear enough if you want to.  More practically:

- In the multitude of hardware configurations that are used some will have problems.
- In the effort to advance the product bugs will be introduced.

You are never going to have a perfect distro, the goal is to have one as bug free as possible.  I do not want to defend Karmic but at the same time think many are doing it a disservice.  Karmic has a few more problems than Jaunty did but it is hardly the "worst release ever."  With every new release there are at least a few people who insist the sky is falling.  And perhaps for them it is, but that does not mean everyone (or even most) are having problems.  

If an individual wants help getting Karmic to work then they can post their problems in the Installation forum and the community will try and help them.  If they want to post "Karmic sucks I am going to <insert something not Ubuntu>" or "Kubuntu does not work" without an attempt to work through their problems then there is little we can say other than good bye.  I am always saddened when someone sincerely tries to get an install working and fails.  On the other hand I do not really miss those who just rant.

Seems like you're arguing with straw men to me, since most of what you said I agree with and yet for some reason you're objecting to the quote you cited and I agree with it as well.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-05
Until one does proper diagnostics, (not just memtest and hard drive) you can not rule out hardware as part of the issue. I have a PC repair business and know this as fact. PM me and I will let you know where to get the free software. I think you would be surprised at how many people really do have hardware issues. And just because windows may run fine on it means nothing. Certain OS's can "mask" problems that are present in others.

Just because something does not work on my computer does not make it bad or the worst ever, it just means it does not work on my hardware. But I do not start "worst release ever" threads based on my single experience.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-05
> **michaelzap said:**
> Then you continue to stand on a shaky assumption based on no evidence. I am not going to do your homework for you, but from what I have been reading, almost every post that I have seen with problems, is one where the OP upgraded, without testing his/her hardware beforehand with the LiveCD. 

> **michaelzap said:**
> Voicing a negative opinion (even complaining) is not the same as trolling.

To me, trolling is blaming someone else for your own mistake. If a person changes the OS on their system without checking to see that it works, then gets mad and flames the community instead of starting a help request thread, then the person is trolling. He/she doesn't want a fix and does want people to argue.

If it doesn't work and it is a show stopper, file the bug report and run the back-ups. Until you see that your bug has been fixed. If it isn't a show stopper, do some googling, then if needed, start a help thread.

> **michaelzap said:**
> In my case, for example, I did a checksum on my install CD (the first one I burned was in fact bad) and did a clean install using the alternative CD on a laptop that is less than a year old. I tested this laptop with the Live CD of the RC and it seemed fine, but that may have just been luck (since I only tried it for about an hour or so). I'm plenty willing and able to get under the hood and fix things when necessary, but so far it seems that my issues won't be resolved until the new kernel is released (if then).

So you do what is logical and go back to what works, unless you have the skill level to actually fix the problem, which you say you can't.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-05
> **snowpine said:**
> 9.10 crashes and burns on my desktop due to my unsupported graphics card; doesn't matter at all whether I upgrade or do a fresh install... it crashes within 5 seconds!

In Canonical's defense, however, it is an upstream bug. It's not "Karmic's fault" at all, and I'm sure a fix will come through updates eventually.

Like I was saying though, most people that find they have a problem, do't go off and make rant threads. If in fact they have a problem such as yours, they try to fix it, if that doesn't work, they throw in the back-up disks or whatever media contains a working OS.

---

### Post by Kokopelli on 2009-11-05
> **michaelzap said:**
> Seems like you're arguing with straw men to me, since most of what you said I agree with and yet for some reason you're objecting to the quote you cited and I agree with it as well.

I think what you meant is mine is a straw man argument.  To say that "you're arguing with straw men" means that your arguments are hollow.  :) In any case I respectfully disagee.  The original post is a straw man.  It tries to equate failures in an OS structure on properly installed systems with a multitude of problems caused by failed installs.

In the specific case of what I quoted I am arguing that we are not attacking the users, but dismissing arguments by users who by the nature of the thread preclude useful dialog.

Call it a straw man if you like though, I just do not agree.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-05
> **Kokopelli said:**
> I think what you meant is mine is a straw man argument.  To say that "you're arguing with straw men" means that your arguments are hollow.
As I understand the expression, you set up a straw man (argument) that is easy to knock over but that isn't a real opponent (in the sense that no one is actually making the argument that you're knocking down). That's the sense in which I meant that you seem to be arguing with straw men, since I don't see this thread as a "worst release ever" or "Karmic sucks" thread at all, and I don't see people spouting things like that in it. The analogy to Vista may be provocative but if you read the OP it's not without foundation.

> **Kokopelli said:**
> In the specific case of what I quoted I am arguing that we are not attacking the users, but dismissing arguments by users who by the nature of the thread preclude useful dialog.

I don't see how voicing a negative opinion "precludes useful dialog(ue)". If one has a negative opinion, it's valid to express it in a constructive way. I do see a tendency among some people here to blame the victim and dismiss their issues as "user error" or just being negative Nancys (now that's a strange expression).

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-05
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> Like I was saying though, most people that find they have a problem, do't go off and make rant threads. If in fact they have a problem such as yours, they try to fix it, if that doesn't work, they throw in the back-up disks or whatever media contains a working OS.

Exactly. I myself am smart enough to realize that not every OS will work on every computer. For a while, I could not get ubuntu to work well on my laptop so I tried Puppy and it worked well. It was actually the *only* thing that worked well. I did not complain or rant "for the sake of the community". 

Now that karmic is out, I tried it on that laptop again, and it works. Should I start a thread stating "karmic best ever", just because it now works? People should really take chill pills and get over themselves. I, nor you, or anyone else is the center of the universe, but some people write as if they are.

I tried fedora 12 the other day and the install went well. Then the reboot and set up the user account. Then all hell broke loose and I could not use it. Oh well. But you won't see me bashing it just because it did not work on my computer. I'm sure most people will be happy with it.

Either help make it better, or use what works. But rants only start arguments.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-11-05
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> Like I was saying though, most people that find they have a problem, do't go off and make rant threads. If in fact they have a problem such as yours, they try to fix it, if that doesn't work, they throw in the back-up disks or whatever media contains a working OS.

Well, I've been using Ubuntu long enough I'm not going to "go off and make a rant thread." And the fix was incredibly simple (disable desktop effects).

I do however think it's kind of sad that Karmic has such bad support for the Intel 945 (one of the most common chipsets in the world) out-of-the box, even if it is an upstream issue.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-05
> **snowpine said:**
> 
**I do however think it's kind of sad that Karmic has such bad support for the Intel 945** (one of the most common chipsets in the world) out-of-the box, even if **it is an upstream issue**.

Your statement makes no sense. If it is an upstream issue, why is it sad that karmic has bad support? If ubuntu could fix this issue, I'm sure it would be sent upstream so everyone could benefit.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-05
> **snowpine said:**
> Well, I've been using Ubuntu long enough I'm not going to "go off and make a rant thread." And the fix was incredibly simple (disable desktop effects).

I do however think it's kind of sad that Karmic has such bad support for the Intel 945 (one of the most common chipsets in the world) out-of-the box, even if it is an upstream issue.

Though I would never buy anything other than AMD and NVIDIA. I will say that I agree with you and that I would be aggrivated by not being able to enjoy the latest and greatest.

I am writing this from a Fedora 11 KDE liveCD because I like checking out other systems in case I ever want to go another route. I don't think I will be writing over my Ubuntu Karmic any time soon though.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-05
> **HappyFeet said:**
> Either help make it better, or use what works. But rants only start arguments.

The point that you seem to be missing here is that criticism can make Ubuntu better.

For example, a number of people are questioning whether Ubuntu's release schedule is such a good idea given their experience with Karmic. It was released exactly when the kernel it uses was problematic on a lot of hardware and another one is almost ready (which Linus says will be much better). Others have said that six months may be too short a period in which to do proper testing.

Criticism can be constructive, and wise people are open to learning from it.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-05
> **HappyFeet said:**
> Your statement makes no sense. If it is an upstream issue, why is it sad that karmic has bad support? If ubuntu could fix this issue, I'm sure it would be sent upstream so everyone could benefit.

Karmic could have been delayed until there was a fix for it (for example in the new kernel).

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-11-05
> **happyfeet said:**
> exactly. I myself am smart enough to realize that not every os will work on every computer. For a while, i could not get ubuntu to work well on my laptop so i tried puppy and it worked well. It was actually the *only* thing that worked well. I did not complain or rant "for the sake of the community". 

Now that karmic is out, i tried it on that laptop again, and it works. Should i start a thread stating "karmic best ever", just because it now works? People should really take chill pills and get over themselves. I, nor you, or anyone else is the center of the universe, but some people write as if they are.

I tried fedora 12 the other day and the install went well. Then the reboot and set up the user account. Then all hell broke loose and i could not use it. Oh well. But you won't see me bashing it just because it did not work on my computer. I'm sure most people will be happy with it.

Either help make it better, or use what works. But rants only start arguments.

+1

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-05
> **michaelzap said:**
> The point that you seem to be missing here is that criticism can make Ubuntu better.


Not in this forum, it won't. This is not even an official canonical run forum. You need to take all concerns to other areas such as launchpad. Go to where the devs hang out, not the fanboys. Why do people think that their voice will make a difference by posting here?

And no, I'm not missing *any* point. Check yourself. People *do* need to make their voice heard, but they need to take it to the appropriate areas if they want to make a difference. I obviously know more about proper protocol than most.

---

### Post by mCion on 2009-11-05
oh wow, this has grown all over the place.

Yes, I was frustrated (who isn't when your computer crashes often and you don't know how to fix it), but I believe some comments are improper/offensive.

I found it interesting to hear (read) from various posts that in rare cases some software has damaged hardware.  I personally wasn't sure of that.
Maybe that's what happened to me, or maybe I hit my laptop and broke something inside while running Karmic, who knows...

Another thing that I found interesting is that 2 others have had similar problems doing **clean installs** to and from Karmic.  I think that if it has happened more than once, it's worth analysing. 

I agree that many problems are not probably Ubuntu, but the Kernel or something else.

I basic stability on a OS more importantance than trying new features (where Vista dramatically failed, among other things). (yes I know it is stable for many, but aparently it *also* not so stable for many others..).

and yes!, 100% agree that even with the comparison I did, Ubuntu will always be better since we wont have to pay $$$ for upgrades and fixes.

---

### Post by mCion on 2009-11-05
Ironically I think Happyfeet is right.  where exactly can you drop a suggestion?

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-05
> **mCion said:**
> Ironically I think Happyfeet is right.  where exactly can you drop a suggestion?

[Ubuntu Brainstorm]("http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/")
and
[Launchpad]("http://www.launchpad.net")

Good luck to you, and I wish you well.

Btw, why is it ironic?

---

### Post by Syirrus on 2009-11-05
> **mCion said:**
> I know everybody will hate me for posting this, but nonetheless it's constructive criticism and from my point of view, it's close to the truth.

One year using Ubuntu and I love it.  I thought it would just keep on getting better, until I installed Karmic, and everything went downhill.

Why a comparison to Vista?

Vista was released BEFORE it was ready as it should have been, therefore it was very unstable, ate a TON of resources, etc.  Sure it ****looked**** really nice, but it was a piece of junk.  Actually it was the disgusting Windows Vista that made me look into Ubuntu (for which I'm thankful).  Like me, many people left the windows environment because of the Vista mess.

The problem with Karmic?

Out too soon!(or tried to do too much in little time, since Ubuntu has scheduled releases)  Sure, it sounds really nice to have cloud computing integrated with you OS, to have ext4 filesystem set to default, faster boot times, new look, new Ubuntu Software Center, etc etc. 
The bottom line, a very unstable incomplete OS.  Just look at the forums!, they are full of crashes, no sound, etc.  

My example, installed 9.10.  I get several "serious kernel problems" but the machine runs.  Just a few days in, my once very stable laptop freezes all the time.  I dont even remember the last time I manually shut down the computer (ok, maybe I got to do it like 3 times... out of 50).

I've tried everything!, going back to 9.04 with ext4, 9.10 and 9.04 with ext3 and nothing!!.  It now freezes all the time.  I cant even return to the previous state of my machine before I installed the "Killer Koala".

I can't watch any videos for more than 3 minutes online, besides the completely RANDOM crashes.

I'm one Ubuntu user that is NOT happy with my system like this.

Sometimes it's good to hear the good and the bad.  My hope is that in the future Ubuntu will be a stable, ***reliable system***.  No one likes to have lots of "cool looking features" if your system crashes often.  My other hope is to get my computer working again, how it was before Karmic, but that looks kind of hard right now as I've run out of ideas.

To utter vista and ubuntu in the same sentence makes me cringe.  

Please understand that if you want stability..... stick with LTS releases period. That is why there is a two year cycle in the LTS release schedule.  Don't you see?.... the interim builds help Canonical stabilize the LTS release as well as better decide what people want in part.  I'm grateful that we have interim and LTS releases.  Besides, the very nature of open source software warrants change and with change you may encounter problems.  All in all, Ubuntu has moved everyone who uses it in a positive direction with respect to stability as well as usability. 

Lastly, if you didn't pay for ubuntu/linux why are you complaining?

/end rant

Syirrus

---

### Post by mCion on 2009-11-05
Ironic because I started the thread.

Thanks for the links.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-11-05
> **HappyFeet said:**
> Your statement makes no sense. If it is an upstream issue, why is it sad that karmic has bad support? If ubuntu could fix this issue, I'm sure it would be sent upstream so everyone could benefit.

Yeah, I appreciate the paradox. :) I don't blame canonical for it, BUT my feeling of disappointment at not being able to use a Karmic Live CD on my computer is legitimate. :(

---

### Post by myromance123 on 2009-11-05
After reading through half the posts here, Karmic ***MAY*** have truly stuck to their computers even after reinstalling Jaunty.

 There may be something different in Karmic's Installation that Jaunty can't pick up or understand thus leaves it alone and voila we have a "haunted" version of Jaunty that won't work!

Its something like when you install XP and then try and dual boot with Win2K, Win2k doesn't know what XP is (since its an older OS) thus it won't let you load up to it no matter what (but XP is still there!).

Yes this may be pure conjecture at the moment, but think about it. Is there something that Karmic does that Jaunty truly wouldn't understand that could lead to this?

Have you tried wiping the hard-drive clean *with* Karmic's CD *and then *installing Jaunty?

Don't argue, think of a solution people :)

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-05
> **Syirrus said:**
> To utter vista and ubuntu in the same sentence makes me cringe.

Today I've said this sentence which made ME cringe:
"I'm using Vista today because the new version of Ubuntu keeps crashing on my laptop."

> **Syirrus said:**
> Lastly, if you didn't pay for ubuntu/linux why are you complaining?

Because I'm not trapped in a consumerist mindset?

I think that there's something to learn from the bad experiences that many have had with Karmic. I've posted bugs on Launchpad and I've voted on Bainstorm. But I've also noticed that this thread and others are getting linked to and discussed on other sites, so don't try to tell me that what's said here can't have an effect on the future of Ubuntu (or some other distro that someone reading this is considering launching).

I'm going to keep trying to fix my Karmic installation and apply updates daily and see what happens, but if I'm still stuck using Vista to get actual work done in a week or so I'm going to start trying other options (probably not 8.04 LTS, since I like to use more updated software than I can get in those repos).

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-05
> **michaelzap said:**
> 

I think that there's something to learn from the bad experiences that many have had with Karmic.  

How many people have had a bad time with karmic? Empirical data please. I'm sure *everyone* has had a bad time with karmic. :rolleyes:  You are right. Do we need to go through this every release? I'll answer my own question. Yes we do. I've known ubuntu since the beginning, (just because I didn't post doesn't mean I don't know) but I'm getting tired of defending ubuntu. Period. It works well for me and my customers. (how many of you trust ubuntu in your business?) It's getting old. 

I'm *very good* with computers, and that by itself has a lot to do with it. I don't expect everyone to be a computer genius, but certain common sense rules DO apply.

After all, I do deal with windows people too. Guess what? It's not all roses in windowsland either.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-05
> **HappyFeet said:**
> I'm *very good* with computers, and that by itself has a lot to do with it. I don't expect everyone to be a computer genius, but certain common sense rules DO apply.

OK Mr. Genius. I'm sure the rest of us are just whiners and fools. Thanks so much for telling me that if I only had common sense Karmic would work on my hardware.

I have been and continue to be a Ubuntu booster. I've installed it on countless computers for others, complete with massive amounts of free tech support and freshly-burned CDs. I'm not ditching Ubuntu because it doesn't work on my hardware right now, but I'm not going to pretend that it does either.

Denial is of course the best way to solve a problem that you wish you didn't have.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-05
> **michaelzap said:**
> OK Mr. Genius. I'm sure the rest of us are just whiners and fools. Thanks so much for telling me that if I only had common sense Karmic would work on my hardware.

I have been and continue to be a Ubuntu booster. I've installed it on countless computers for others, complete with massive amounts of free tech support and freshly-burned CDs. I'm not ditching Ubuntu because it doesn't work on my hardware right now, but I'm not going to pretend that it does either.

Denial is of course the best way to solve a problem that you wish you didn't have.

What HappyFeet is trying to say is that, if Karmic is not working on your system, file a bug report and if you are unable to use your system due to this bug, put in your back-ups and go back to the release that worked for you. I once tried Fedora for the first time, it was beautiful, but I could not get anything to work right. I didn't rant, I deleted that partition and wrote Ubuntu back over it. **Use what works.**

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-05
> **michaelzap said:**
> Today I've said this sentence which made ME cringe:
"I'm using Vista today because the new version of Ubuntu keeps crashing on my laptop."
Quit whining about it and put Jaunty back on, while you wait for the next kernel upgrade to fix your bug.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-05
> **michaelzap said:**
> OK Mr. Genius. I'm sure the rest of us are just whiners and fools. Thanks so much for telling me that if I only had common sense Karmic would work on my hardware.

I have been and continue to be a Ubuntu booster. I've installed it on countless computers for others, complete with massive amounts of free tech support and freshly-burned CDs. I'm not ditching Ubuntu because it doesn't work on my hardware right now, but I'm not going to pretend that it does either.

Denial is of course the best way to solve a problem that you wish you didn't have.

You're ripping me?  I've probably helped more people than the number of times you've changed your underwear. Wow. Please go away.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-05
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> What HappyFeet is trying to say is that, if Karmic is not working on your system, file a bug report and if you are unable to use your system due to this bug, put in your back-ups and go back to the release that worked for you. I once tried Fedora for the first time, it was beautiful, but I could not get anything to work right. I didn't rant, I deleted that partition and wrote Ubuntu back over it. **Use what works.**

I think that HappyFeet is trying to say that anyone who complains about problems with Ubuntu is an idjut and should shut up.

What you're saying, however, is completely reasonable. Karmic didn't work for me, and that's not the end of the world. I'm keeping the installation for now because I really want it to work and have hope that it will once I can get the final version of the new kernel, but if it doesn't I'll move on to a different distro for a while.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-05
> **HappyFeet said:**
> You're ripping me?  I've probably helped more people than the number of times you've changed your underwear. Wow. Please go away.

Oh yes - my arrogance is overwhelming, isn't it?

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-06
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> Quit whining about it and put Jaunty back on, while you wait for the next kernel upgrade to fix your bug.

Is he serious? Say it aint so rabbit. But honestly I don't care. You're either with it, or you're not. And it has nothing to do with ubuntu in particular. Those with decent computer knowledge know what I mean.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-06
> **michaelzap said:**
> I think that HappyFeet is trying to say that anyone who complains about problems with Ubuntu is an idjut and should shut up.


You started that statement with "I think". I never said that. Who did I call an idiot?

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-06
> **HappyFeet said:**
> Those with decent computer knowledge know what I mean.

Yes, we do.

Also: I don't wear underwear.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-06
> **michaelzap said:**
> Oh yes - my arrogance is overwhelming, isn't it?

At least I have experience to back it up. Btw, expect this thread to be closed soon.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-06
> **HappyFeet said:**
> At least I have experience to back it up.

Ho, hum - good night.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **HappyFeet said:**
> Is he serious? Say it aint so rabbit. But honestly I don't care. You're either with it, or you're not. And it has nothing to do with ubuntu in particular. Those with decent computer knowledge know what I mean.

:lolflag:
After the crap that happened at Fort Hood, Texas, today, I can only laugh at the petty things we fret about on here. Life is too short to spend it ranting about our systems not running the way we expect them to.

> Let us all take some time be humbled and happy for what we do have and stop fretting about what we don't.

---

### Post by ubunny on 2009-11-06
so I visited [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305924](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305924) and looked at all the polls for the last 5 releases, Koala, Jaunty, Intrepid, Hardy, Gutsy.  Everyone is going to have a different experience.  There is no empirical definitive means of comparision.

In my own experience; Koala no, Jaunty yes, Intrepid no, Hardy yes, Gutsy yes etc.  In my case, Koala is another Intrepid, which to me means avoid it.  To others and their hardware it means great news.  It's like a medicine, and if it goes down then fine.   

Quit with the personal comments, they are wholly irrelevant to your hardware.  

Ironically Koala on the poll is top for both install version and upgrade version!  Just not my experience.  

If you haven't taken the poll, click [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305924](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305924) to add your two cents.  Today, Koala isn't for me.  Maybe tomorrow the next release will be fantastic.  I'll be happy with Jaunty until then.  In the end, this is about your computer, not about you.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-06
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> :lolflag:
After the crap that happened at Fort Hood, Texas, today, I can only laugh at the petty things we fret about on here. Life is too short to spend it ranting about our systems not running the way we expect them to.

I hear ya. My GF's mother is near death, and it's going to mean a big change in our lives...... I don't even know why I posted. Perhaps to take my mind off of it. Maybe *I* should chill....... I certainly have reason to.

And to add to it, I wish everyone the best, seeing how all of us are not going to around someday. These arguments will be moot someday.

---

### Post by Syirrus on 2009-11-06
> **michaelzap said:**
> so don't try to tell me that what's said here can't have an effect on the future of Ubuntu (or some other distro that someone reading this is considering launching).

Originally, my post was more so directed to mCion.  I'm certainly not telling you that your comments don't have an effect on the future of Ubuntu either; they obviously do at least effect the community who ultimately help develop Ubuntu. Nonetheless, Michaelzap if Vista works for you and Ubuntu doesn't then by all means use Vista.  It's really difficult to make software that is "one size that fits all" model. My impetus for even commenting on this thread centers around people that moan gripe and complain about how things aren't working for them and Ubuntu sucks.  Threads like, "Goodbye Ubuntu, I'm done - Bad Karma, or 9.10 is an awful release" are just getting old.  Do I expect everyone to have a success story... not at all. If you have some critiques and suggestions, lay them out there as such... just don't be so *emo* about it.  I have been with Ubuntu since 4.10 and have had my share of issues with Ubuntu not booting, video driver problems, networking issues etc.  Who really hasn't problems if you have used Ubuntu, other linux distros, OSX or Windows for that fact?    

Constructive criticism are certainly appropriate and welcome. That what some forums here are about.  Just don't expect to be taken seriously if you are whining (Not saying you are MichaelZap).

Syirrus

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **Syirrus said:**
> <snip>

IMHO, what is said here, will have no effect on the future of Ubuntu. I doubt, with the title, any developer in a serious state of mind will be reading a thread with such a label, except to laugh at the idiocracy within.

Karmic makes Windows 7 look like a joke, may get their attention, because that is exactly what it does on my system.

[Go here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8254763#post8254763") everyone and stake your claim to something the Devs *might* actually look at.

---

### Post by Poyntz on 2009-11-06
I've slightly deferred from mCion's intention of this topic, but I think what I need to ask is relevant enough to the topic that it can be asked here.

Like you, mCion, I've had my many troubles getting Karmic up and running. Now it's up and running, and the first thing that came to mind was the Vista ad (confirm/deny) or whatever that Vista body guard said. Everything you click on asks for authentication. But actually this makes me happy. I didn't think Intrepid was secure enough in terms of the GUI. Lets just hope there's a way for people that don't want the continued "Unlock" buttons to appear to select the "off" option somewhere... 

Anyhow, now for my question... What exactly is new about Karmic Koala? I haven't noticed any significant speed differences (Intrepid was quick). I've noticed a few odd things pop-up that don't work, like that mail icon on the gnome-panel which doesn't work. My desktop looks completely the same as it did in Intrepid, minus Emerald which doesn't seem to work unless I issue the "emerald --restart" command. I noticed that, the "Accessories" icon changed in the "Applications" menu, and that the panel menus for the bluetooth and network manager have been spruced up. I've had difficulties getting the Internet up to the pace it was in Intrepid (probably because my old configuration settings were wiped, but nonetheless...) Still I pose the question - what has changed?

- I know many people have spent countless hours on this new OS, and I'd love to make full use out of what you've done, but I can't because I have no idea what's been changed

---

### Post by Arthur_D on 2009-11-06
> **Syirrus said:**
> If you have some critiques and suggestions, lay them out there as such... just don't be so *emo* about it.  I have been with Ubuntu since 4.10 and have had my share of issues with Ubuntu not booting, video driver problems, networking issues etc.  Who really hasn't problems if you have used Ubuntu, other linux distros, OSX or Windows for that fact?    

Constructive criticism are certainly appropriate and welcome. That what some forums here are about.  Just don't expect to be taken seriously if you are whining (Not saying you are MichaelZap).
IMHO, this is the best post in the entire thread. Yes, people should be allowed to write about their bad experiences, but they should be careful on how they write it. Blaming Ubuntu is certainly a bad idea on a forum dedicated to Ubuntu.

I do also have some issues with sound in Karmic, but after what I've heard, it's the kernel's fault and NOT Ubuntu's. For all I know, it might get fixed in a few, perhaps only one, kernel update.

BTW, while rants about Karmic is getting old, some expressions like "Use what works" also does. Perhaps they're already doing that, but they wanted to share their experience with Karmic as well. Why can't you let them do that, and leave it at that?

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-06
> **Arthur_D said:**
> IMHO, this is the best post in the entire thread. Yes, people should be allowed to write about their bad experiences, but they should be careful on how they write it. Blaming Ubuntu is certainly a bad idea on a forum dedicated to Ubuntu.

I do also have some issues with sound in Karmic, but after what I've heard, it's the kernel's fault and NOT Ubuntu's. For all I know, it might get fixed in a few, perhaps only one, kernel update.

BTW, while rants about Karmic is getting old, some expressions like "Use what works" also does. Perhaps they're already doing that, but they wanted to share their experience with Karmic as well. Why can't you let them do that, and leave it at that?

I agree with you (although I laughed out loud at the idea that I was somehow being emo).

Here is where I see the metaphor of Karmic = Vista being a potentially valid (and useful) critique:

[LIST]
[*]It was released before it was properly tested and vetted in order to meet an artificial timeline. Perhaps the Ubuntu team ought to reconsider their release schedule if it means that final releases include kernels that cause severe regressions on common hardware. Especially if a new improved kernel is days from being released.
[*]Vista was an attempt to do too much, too fast. It was a major jump forward in many respects, but a lot of that was lost on people who struggled with its poor implementation and hardware conflicts.
[*]Vista was followed up by Windows 7, which will probably amount to Microsoft's most successful Long-Term Support release in many years (and Lucid looks to follow this pattern).
[*]The many issues that people had with Vista (including some that were resolved in the first Service Pack) drove people away from Windows, which is a danger now with Karmic.
[*]No amount of Vista cheerleading could fool people who'd tried it and found it wanting, and I think that Ubuntu supporters should remember that now.
[/LIST]

I am, unfortunately, typing this from Vista since my Karmic installation is still too unstable to use (although I keep trying).

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-11-06
> **HappyFeet said:**
> I hear ya. My GF's mother is near death, and it's going to mean a big change in our lives...... I don't even know why I posted. Perhaps to take my mind off of it. Maybe *I* should chill....... I certainly have reason to.

And to add to it, I wish everyone the best, seeing how all of us are not going to around someday. These arguments will be moot someday.

Life has a way of giving us some perspective sometimes.  Which is why my sole reason for being here is entertainment.  I figure if you guys can't make me laugh, nobody can.  :P

Have a great one, everybody.  :)

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-06
> **michaelzap said:**
> 
[*]It was released before it was properly tested and vetted in order to meet an artificial timeline.

I got news for you. The real testing begins after release. Only by mass adoption, can you figure out what needs to be fixed. This is fact. If more people would test the alphas, we may not have this problem. But people probably are just too lazy to care.In today's society, it's not uncommon for people to have a "let someone else do it" attitude. Ubuntu users only have themselves to blame. Unlike Microsoft, WE can take part in the direction of ubuntu. It is OUR OS. If it fails to meet expectations, it means we have failed as a community. Open source needs as many people as possible to be involved. Don't just sit on your hands and complain.

---

### Post by GodLikeCreature on 2009-11-06
> **HappyFeet said:**
> I got news for you. The real testing begins after release. Only by mass adoption, can you figure out what needs to be fixed. This is fact. If more people would test the alphas, we may not have this problem. But people probably are just too lazy to care.In today's society, it's not uncommon for people to have a "let someone else do it" attitude. Ubuntu users only have themselves to blame. Unlike Microsoft, WE can take part in the direction of ubuntu. It is OUR OS. If it fails to meet expectations, it means we have failed as a community. Open source needs as many people as possible to be involved. Don't just sit on your hands and complain.

Couldn't agree more.

I have had absolutely no problems with Karmic, and I bet tons of people have had a very successful upgrade/install, just like I did.  In fact, I think there are lots more people who have had no issues than the few complaining, they simply don't care to come here and post "I am very satisfied with Ubuntu Karmic Koala".  

In any case, I think it is probably reasonable to admit that Karmic was a very ambitious release, and maybe they didn't release it at the usual mature stage, but comparing that with Vista???!  PLEASE!!!!!...

Vista spent years suffering from the problems it had when it came out.  Not even after SP2 was it an efficient OS.  It's usability problems were still very much intact...  Corporations all over the world either plain skipped Windows Vista or only moved into it because of pressure from MS.  I work in a large pharmaceutical company myself and we are on WinXP SP3 at this stage!

Vista was MASSIVE FAILURE.  

Karmic has created problems to a few users?  Fine, that is expected to an extent.  Some of the people making noise are just asking for unreasonable things, like the OP here.  

In any case, Karmic will be perfectly stable and have as many bugs fixed as possible very soon, and will be an incredibly good release in any way weeks after its release, which makes it very much a success in my opinion.  In fact, I was trying Mandriva 2010 yesterday, which has been released a few days after Karmic, and to be honest, there's no contest.  One you have a chance to see a very decent release like Mandriva and then see what Canonical has achieved with Karmic...  

Well, I for one am amazed, thankful to developers and the Ubuntu community for this astonishing piece of work!  I think a few weeks from now the dust will settle and people will start to fully appreciate Karmic in its full glory.  I am pretty sure Karmic will be considered one of the best releases ever!!!

Btw, it is interesting how little people remember of past events.  I clearly remember how Jaunty was heavily criticized right after release date because of its problems with ATI and Intel video cards.  However, people look back now and consider Jaunty an very good and stable release...  Which it is, but please, let's put things into perspective here.

---

### Post by SeePU on 2009-11-06
Don't say anything too bad or you'll get your thread locked. :rolleyes:

---

### Post by decoherence on 2009-11-06
As they are fond of saying in the OS X 10.6 section of the Apple Discussion Forum, "back up before you upgrade" and "never buy a .0 (point-zero) release."

Hey, if it's good enough for the Mac users... :biggrin:

As far as comparing it with Vista, that's obviously apples to oranges. Vista was a failure because MS over-promised and under-delivered, MS can afford the very very best in quality assurance and Vista was damn expensive. Also, many of Vista's early problems were endemic to Vista and affected all users. With Karmic we're seeing some people with problems which generally means there are some exceptional cases which need to be identified and handled. I don't think there has ever been an operating system released where that wasn't the case.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-06
> **HappyFeet said:**
> I got news for you. The real testing begins after release. ... But people probably are just too lazy to care. ... Ubuntu users only have themselves to blame.

Many (if not all) of these bugs were in fact found by beta testers, and yet the release schedule was not changed. That doesn't seem to be a problem that you can blame on "Ubuntu users" to me. That is a direct result of the top-down Canonical decision to follow a strict six-month release schedule, come hell or high water.

And the question is whether that's such a wise thing to do.

I actually had problems with Jaunty as well (my laptop has Intel video), but at least Jaunty didn't crash constantly. I really don't see how one can argue that major regressions that make working hardware unusable are normal and to be accepted without complaint. I don't see how putting out a release that breaks on a lot of systems is a good PR strategy for Ubuntu (when they could have waited a week or a month and put out a solid release).

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **michaelzap said:**
> Many (if not all) of these bugs were in fact found by beta testers, and yet the release schedule was not changed. That doesn't seem to be a problem that you can blame on "Ubuntu users" to me. That is a direct result of the top-down Canonical decision to follow a strict six-month release schedule, come hell or high water.

And the question is whether that's such a wise thing to do.

I actually had problems with Jaunty as well (my laptop has Intel video), but at least Jaunty didn't crash constantly. I really don't see how one can argue that major regressions that make working hardware unusable are normal and to be accepted without complaint. I don't see how putting out a release that breaks on a lot of systems is a good PR strategy for Ubuntu (when they could have waited a week or a month and put out a solid release).

If you have such a problem with Ubuntu, move on.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2009-11-06
If 9.10 doesn't work for you, please use what does. I can't count how many times in this section of the forum I've read these words:

**"Use What Works For You"** how can it get any simpler than that?

I respect those that get involved rather than just complain. They endeavor to make a difference, not just seek attention. The individuals that step up to become part of the solution. Yet, the whiners and complainers will always be among us. IMHO they lack the ability to become part of the solution and thus are relegated to the only simple task they are capable of - demeaning the work of others.

Being disabled, unfortunately restricts my participation. My only recourse has been small financial donations to a few FOSS projects. But in doing so it provides me with some satisfaction in knowing I participated. To those that have been significantly involved with improving my computing experience (Ubuntu/FOSS) and continue to make a difference - you have my deepest respect and appreciation. I wish to thank all of those individuals for their time and efforts.

Just my $0.02

---

### Post by robbiechad on 2009-11-06
Hi, I had the same disaster upgrading from 9.04 to 9.10 something to do with the new bootloader, lost my dual boot vista, had to completely reload my vista then put back 9.04 which had been working perfectly before I made the mistake of upgrading. I think I will wait till 10.04 comes out then wait another couple of months before attempting another upgrade. I run a Sony Vaio laptop.  Jaunty runs all I require DVDs Flash etc not very good with scanning and printing photos that is why I keep  Vista!! Regards to all.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-06
> **Tamlynmac said:**
> If 9.10 doesn't work for you, please use what does. I can't count how many times in this section of the forum I've read these words:

**"Use What Works For You"** how can it get any simpler than that?

I respect those that get involved rather than just complain. They endeavor to make a difference, not just seek attention. The individuals that step up to become part of the solution. Yet, the whiners and complainers will always be among us. IMHO they lack the ability to become part of the solution and thus are relegated to the only simple task they are capable of - demeaning the work of others.

Once again the reply - boiled down to it's essential element - is shut up or go away if you have a complaint.

I submit that although "Use What Works For You" is a perfectly rational thing for an individual to do (and good advice on that level), this is not a healthy response for the Ubuntu community to spit out whenever there are criticisms. A healthy response would be to try to learn from criticisms that are more than just idle kvetching (as I submit the severity of the Karmic bugs and regressions on some hardware are) and keep the community motivated to improve Ubuntu. Denial does not lead to evolution.

Some of us actually work pretty hard to resolve issues and offer support to others AND have a criticism to offer from time to time, by the way...

---

### Post by andymorton on 2009-11-06
> **mCion said:**
> I know everybody will hate me for posting this, but nonetheless it's constructive criticism and from my point of view, it's close to the truth.

One year using Ubuntu and I love it.  I thought it would just keep on getting better, until I installed Karmic, and everything went downhill.

Why a comparison to Vista?

Vista was released BEFORE it was ready as it should have been, therefore it was very unstable, ate a TON of resources, etc.  Sure it ****looked**** really nice, but it was a piece of junk.  Actually it was the disgusting Windows Vista that made me look into Ubuntu (for which I'm thankful).  Like me, many people left the windows environment because of the Vista mess.

The problem with Karmic?

Out too soon!(or tried to do too much in little time, since Ubuntu has scheduled releases)  Sure, it sounds really nice to have cloud computing integrated with you OS, to have ext4 filesystem set to default, faster boot times, new look, new Ubuntu Software Center, etc etc. 
The bottom line, a very unstable incomplete OS.  Just look at the forums!, they are full of crashes, no sound, etc.  

My example, installed 9.10.  I get several "serious kernel problems" but the machine runs.  Just a few days in, my once very stable laptop freezes all the time.  I dont even remember the last time I manually shut down the computer (ok, maybe I got to do it like 3 times... out of 50).

I've tried everything!, going back to 9.04 with ext4, 9.10 and 9.04 with ext3 and nothing!!.  It now freezes all the time.  I cant even return to the previous state of my machine before I installed the "Killer Koala".

I can't watch any videos for more than 3 minutes online, besides the completely RANDOM crashes.

I'm one Ubuntu user that is NOT happy with my system like this.

Sometimes it's good to hear the good and the bad.  My hope is that in the future Ubuntu will be a stable, ***reliable system***.  No one likes to have lots of "cool looking features" if your system crashes often.  My other hope is to get my computer working again, how it was before Karmic, but that looks kind of hard right now as I've run out of ideas.

I don't think the comparison with Vista is at all fair. Ubuntu 9.10 was released about a week ago. Vista was released a few years ago and is still a joke. 
I haven't experienced any of the problems you describe. For me personally, it's the most stable version of Ubuntu that I've used so far. 

It's a pretty safe bet that if the release of Karmic had been delayed then the developers would have been deluged with complaints and questions about why it had been put back. And we would have all been pretty annoyed. 

Of course, it's a small price to pay for having a well-functioning OS, but from my personal experience that's exactly what it is. 

andy

---

### Post by YachtMaryLou on 2009-11-06
This is my first time trying Ubuntu, and it seems to run just fine.  First tried on an old slow Celeron processor laptop, and now on a newish Acer laptop.  Only snag so far is that I want a personal finance software package that works like Quicken, so I downloaded Kmymoney and cannot find any way to install it.

---

### Post by YosefKaro on 2009-11-06
I was so impressed by Koala that I couldn't wait to move forward already.  I'm on the first stage of Lucid and loving it  :D

-Yos

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-06
> **YachtMaryLou said:**
> This is my first time trying Ubuntu, and it seems to run just fine.  First tried on an old slow Celeron processor laptop, and now on a newish Acer laptop.  Only snag so far is that I want a personal finance software package that works like Quicken, so I downloaded Kmymoney and cannot find any way to install it.

You might like HomeBank. It's simple and solid. You'll find it in the standard repositories.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **michaelzap said:**
> Once again the reply - boiled down to it's essential element - is shut up or go away if you have a complaint.

I submit that although "Use What Works For You" is a perfectly rational thing for an individual to do (and good advice on that level), this is not a healthy response for the Ubuntu community to spit out whenever there are criticisms. A healthy response would be to try to learn from criticisms that are more than just idle kvetching (as I submit the severity of the Karmic bugs and regressions on some hardware are) and keep the community motivated to improve Ubuntu. Denial does not lead to evolution.

Some of us actually work pretty hard to resolve issues and offer support to others AND have a criticism to offer from time to time, by the way...

Have I mentioned that the developers do not read these threads? You are wasting your breath. We got the point that you are not happy and feel Ubuntu owes you something for the amount you paid for it. You keep putting the same 2 cents in, your 2 cents has been accepted, quit paying.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **YosefKaro said:**
> I was so impressed by Koala that I couldn't wait to move forward already.  I'm on the first stage of Lucid and loving it  :D

-Yos

I hear ya!

---

### Post by daldred on 2009-11-06
> **YachtMaryLou said:**
> This is my first time trying Ubuntu, and it seems to run just fine.  First tried on an old slow Celeron processor laptop, and now on a newish Acer laptop.  Only snag so far is that I want a personal finance software package that works like Quicken, so I downloaded Kmymoney and cannot find any way to install it.

Hint: to install software in Linux you don't usually manually download it then look for ways to install it.   Linux is cleverer than that. 

Look in the menus for the package manager (or software manager - I'm using Kubuntu rather than Ubuntu so the terms may differ slightly) and find the software you want there.   Hit the 'install' button and the system will do it all for you.

---

### Post by Digikid on 2009-11-06
I have to agree with the OP on this.  It was too soon.  Why was it rushed is what I want to know.....

---

### Post by lancest on 2009-11-06
There was some funkyness with the live cd not booting well but other than that I've got 4 machines running Karmic almost perfectly (MSI Wind brightness issue excepted). 
As always I find Ubuntu stylish and solid as a rock.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **Digikid said:**
> I have to agree with the OP on this.  It was too soon.  Why was it rushed is what I want to know.....

People ask this every release and the answer is always the same. 

If you don't like their release schedule, Arch has a rolling release, Debian is working in slow-mo to get squeeze, ready and there are many others that schedule more time for a more tuned product. Or, you can wait a while after each Ubuntu release before installing and get it after it has been tuned. (or you can install it now and file bug reports so that it gets tuned even quicker.)

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-06
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> People ask this every release and the answer is always the same. 

If you don't like their release schedule...

Maybe you're answer is always the same, but that doesn't make it THE answer.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **michaelzap said:**
> Maybe you're answer is always the same, but that doesn't make it THE answer.

That is the answer, they set a schedule and they release by that schedule, every time and there are still people like you, who spend so much time on here crying, when you could have worked a second job and paid someone to fix your system by now. You want to make a difference, write Canonical, not your peers. many people read these forums, but not the ones that make the changes.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-06
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> That is the answer, they set a schedule and they release by that schedule, every time and there are still people like you, who spend so much time on here crying, when you could have worked a second job and paid someone to fix your system by now. You wnat to make a difference, write Canonical, not your peers. many people read these forums, but not the ones that make the changes.

How many posts are you going to make basically just saying, "shut up, crybaby"?

Doesn't it get boring being so superior to everyone and having to constantly remind them of it?

If you don't want to discuss what the OP created this thread to discuss, why don't YOU go somewhere else?

---

### Post by empty_spaces on 2009-11-06
> **Digikid said:**
> I have to agree with the OP on this.  It was too soon.  Why was it rushed is what I want to know.....

Oh, I don't know. Could it possibly be because of a 6 month release cycle?

Personally, I think Karmic is the best Ubuntu released to date. I am getting really tired of people jumping in to upgrade hardly a week after release and then complaining that they are not finding support for their issues. 
And honestly, Canonical should do either do away with the upgrade or at the very least present a disclaimer that the user may face issues from the upgrade. Linux users especially tend to play around with their installations so much that there is inevitably a degree of uncertainty with each upgrade. I know that, so I always do a fresh install.

Here are some of the things I do to make my transition smooth.
I currently have 4 partitions on my 160GB laptop 

Partition 1 : 30 GB - Vista (came with the system, used on rare occasions)
Partition 2 : 30 GB - 9.04 Jaunty
Partition 3 : 30 GB - 9.10 Karmic
Partition 4 : 60 GB - Data (shared files)

I fresh-installed 9.10RC on Partition 3 a couple of weeks ago and slowly set everything up over the course of a week, while still using 9.04 as my main OS in case I had any deal-breakers with 9.10. Only after I had satisfied myself 9.10 was actually running better than 9.04 did I switch over my thunderbird and gnucash settings over to 9.10.
I have now fully transitioned to 9.10 and absolutely loving it.

Conclusion: Always have something to fall back on, rather that just running blindly to upgrade. Its a free OS, and the developers may not have had a chance to test every single piece of hardware out there. The first month is usually when these issues become apparent and updates and bugfixes are done.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **michaelzap said:**
> How many posts are you going to make basically just saying, "shut up, crybaby"?

Doesn't it get boring being so superior to everyone and having to constantly remind them of it?

If you don't want to discuss what the OP created this thread to discuss, why don't YOU go somewhere else?

Sweet, now I am superior? You asked a question, I gave an explanation, you know it is right, yet it is not what you want to hear. I think we are both being repetitive due to your saying the same thing over and over, "Ubuntu should not have released, I have a system that was designed for Windows and Linux doesn't, work so, yeah it is Ubuntu's fault..."

The OP was ranting about the same thing you are ranting about. I am ranting about the idiots that think Ubuntu is at fault for not working on your Windows computer.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **empty_spaces said:**
> Conclusion: Always have something to fall back on, rather that just running blindly to upgrade. Its a free OS, and the developers may not have had a chance to test every single piece of hardware out there. The first month is usually when these issues become apparent and updates and bugfixes are done.

That seems to be most people's problem here, they upgrade without having a backup plan and then they complain for weeks until the next kernel update comes out and fixes their issues.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-06
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> That seems to be most people's problem here, they upgrade without having a backup plan and then they complain for weeks until the next kernel update comes out and fixes their issues.

You really are missing the point, rabbit (purposfully?).

I'm actually not complaining or whining that my Karmic installation doesn't work. I'll either make it work eventually or move to something else. I had a backup plan, and it's never the end of the world if a system breaks for a while.

I'm trying to ask reasonable and legitimate questions as to the viability of Ubuntu's release schedule, testing process, etc. Maybe it's not such a good idea that they put out a release tha breaks a lot of systems. You're actually the one who's trying to shut that conversation down, and that seems petty and authoritarian to me. If you don't want to have this conversation, don't. But don't come to a thread and tell people what's OK to discuss and what's out-of-bounds because that's not up to you.

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2009-11-06
I might agree.  But I'm one of those people who never had a problem with Vista.  It just seemed to work fine for me.

On my desktop, installing Karmic was a breeze.  On my netbook however, installing Karmic was an exercise in frustration, and still doesn't seem to work well. 

I also have to agree that Ubuntu's release schedule is their Achilles Heel.  They are determined to meet their deadlines, regardless of major problems that "might" be worked out with a patch down the road.

The problem with that is they don't release an updated version of the original installer.  Add the patches in, and re-build a new ISO.  As a basis of comparison, Windows releases Service Packs, and then releases a new DVD with the Service Pack "slipstreamed" into the installation.

I have said many times, as Lucid is going to be the next long term release, and supported by manufacturers; Canonical would be better to take the extra time necessary to make it as bug-free and fucntional as possible (and I know how that sounds), before they release a final product.

---

### Post by fabianspiteri on 2009-11-06
> **Shibblet said:**
> I have said many times, as Lucid is going to be the next long term release, and supported by manufacturers; Canonical would be better to take the extra time necessary to make it as bug-free and fucntional as possible (and I know how that sounds), before they release a final product.

I completely agree ... this is what is keeping some potential users away from linux. Ubuntu and Canonical have the power to change the OS history but future releases need to clean and bug-free.

This has already given a great benefit as Microsoft has to launch a decent OS (windows 7) to keep hold of the market.

---

### Post by bobblehead792001 on 2009-11-06
i installed 9.10 fresh, dual-booting with windows 7 ultimate (did NOT use wubi), and it's THE best ubuntu i've ever used. I am running a quadcore HP Pavilion with a AMD processor and an ATI HD Allinwonder card, and withthe previous releases of ubuntu i was completely unable to do anything even remotely related to video apart from watching flash videos. This changed for the better with the koala for me. With jaunty and before, i was unable to play ANY openGL games, as they were buggy and the images kept tearing. This is no longer a problem with my pc. it works seamlessly.
    Boot times are faster ( just as promised), software center is OK. i personally prefer Add/Remove myself, but that's because it seems more efficient for installing multiple applications simultaneously. Not one crash as of yet. So, i feel bad for everyone who is experiencing trouble with their pc's as mine is working better than ever. I hardly ever even use windows 7, and i just got it. ubuntu completely overshadowed it...i am very pleased with this release.

---

### Post by empty_spaces on 2009-11-06
So what I'm understanding from some of the replies above is that Ubuntu should rethink their release schedule and maybe not follow a strict 6 month cycle?
Are we really thinking that if we delay a release by a month or two as needed, that we will end up with a better product?

As I mentioned before, the developers may not have had a chance to test every single piece of hardware out there. I believe when the final Ubuntu is released, the developers usually try to ensure that it works on all the hardware that was available for testing through the testing volunteers.

Until the day that every hardware manufacturer releases a linux driver for their hardware, we will always have the "one month of mayhem" with every release, whether it is released in 6 months or 8 months.

Now, whether a rolling release would suit Ubuntu better, that is up to Canonical to decide.

---

### Post by raj7095 on 2009-11-06
There are bugs only when you allow the old packages to be deleted during the upgrade.

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2009-11-06
> **fabianspiteri said:**
> I completely agree ... this is what is keeping some potential users away from linux. Ubuntu and Canonical have the power to change the OS history but future releases need to clean and bug-free.

This has already given a great benefit as Microsoft has to launch a decent OS (windows 7) to keep hold of the market.

Although, tip your hat to the fact that they haven't missed a deadline, and always deliver a solid product.  Bugs can most always be patched.

Another idea would be to change their structure slightly.

Release 10.04 - Lucid Lynx
then release 10.10 - Malevolent Manatee
(This would be a kernel upgrade, along with patches and could be released any time during the three year period between LTS releases.)
then release 10.50 - Naked Nymph, another kernel upgrade and such.
and if time allows, release 10.80 - Obese Ostrich, then it'll be time for you next LTS release.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **empty_spaces said:**
> So what I'm understanding from some of the replies above is that Ubuntu should rethink their release schedule and maybe not follow a strict 6 month cycle?
Are we really thinking that if we delay a release by a month or two as needed, that we will end up with a better product?

As I mentioned before, the developers may not have had a chance to test every single piece of hardware out there. I believe when the final Ubuntu is released, the developers usually try to ensure that it works on all the hardware that was available for testing through the testing volunteers.

Until the day that every hardware manufacturer releases a linux driver for their hardware, we will always have the "one month of mayhem" with every release, whether it is released in 6 months or 8 months.

Now, whether a rolling release would suit Ubuntu better, that is up to Canonical to decide.

I totally agree with that. Many people don't understand the fact that developers don't have every system to test every system and most, not all, of the systems that Ubuntu doesn't work on, was not tested yet. If some of these people that complain every six months that Ubuntu broke their system would actually try out the Beta, their bugs migh actually be fixed before the official release. I think it would be great if they changed to only releasing once a year, but I admire their courage in doing the 6 month cycle.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-06
> **empty_spaces said:**
> So what I'm understanding from some of the replies above is that Ubuntu should rethink their release schedule and maybe not follow a strict 6 month cycle?
Are we really thinking that if we delay a release by a month or two as needed, that we will end up with a better product?

Maybe not. But maybe. My impression (from the outside) is that in this case major bugs were identified before the release and the schedule didn't permit them to be resolved. The kernel in particular is apparently causing a great deal of (perhaps unnecessary) grief, and a new one is almost ready.

I wouldn't necessarily argue for a rolling release. I think that there's some value to having fixed goals instead of just one long slog. But I think that I would like for developers to be able to say, "We really need another month for this release to be ready" and have that be OK. I don't know if that's the case now.

Perhaps the release schedule just ought to be a bit longer. Maybe one release per year or one every nine months. A little more time for testing couldn't hurt.

Then again, maybe Karmic was just a little bit too ambitious or had more than the usual amount of bad luck (like the kernel being a dawg).

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2009-11-06
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> I totally agree with that. Many people don't understand the fact that developers don't have every system to test every system and most, not all, of the systems that Ubuntu doesn't work on, was not tested yet. If some of these people that complain every six months that Ubuntu broke their system would actually try out the Beta, their bugs migh actually be fixed before the official release. I think it would be great if they changed to only releasing once a year, but I admire their courage in doing the 6 month cycle.

See, I completely understand the situation.  It's just that the bugs that come with the OS are quite a bit more dramatic.  

On my MSI Wind U100, I have three MAJOR bugs.  No Wi-Fi, USB doesn't work, and the brightness is wacky.  These are all known bugs, and I'm sure a fix is in the works.   

But these bugs were known about in Alpha, and Beta.  The only reason they would be included in the main release, is because they had a schedule to keep.

1 Release a year is COMPLETELY reasonable.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **michaelzap said:**
> You really are missing the point, rabbit (purposfully?).

I'm actually not complaining or whining that my Karmic installation doesn't work. I'll either make it work eventually or move to something else. I had a backup plan, and it's never the end of the world if a system breaks for a while.

I'm trying to ask reasonable and legitimate questions as to the viability of Ubuntu's release schedule, testing process, etc. Maybe it's not such a good idea that they put out a release tha breaks a lot of systems. You're actually the one who's trying to shut that conversation down, and that seems petty and authoritarian to me. If you don't want to have this conversation, don't. But don't come to a thread and tell people what's OK to discuss and what's out-of-bounds because that's not up to you.

Ok, I  agree that it may be a good idea to have a longer testing period, the real problem stems from people with systems that have no good open source drivers such as ATI and the fact that too many people that could. but don't run the beta release to test it out. How many of us have a spare hard drive, yet aren't willing to use it to test the OS that they love during the beta period?

Comparing Karmic to Vista, however, is not a good, productive conversation starter.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **Shibblet said:**
> See, I completely understand the situation.  It's just that the bugs that come with the OS are quite a bit more dramatic.  

On my MSI Wind U100, I have three MAJOR bugs.  No Wi-Fi, USB doesn't work, and the brightness is wacky.  These are all known bugs, and I'm sure a fix is in the works.   

But these bugs were known about in Alpha, and Beta.  The only reason they would be included in the main release, is because they had a schedule to keep.

1 Release a year is COMPLETELY reasonable.

Or even one release every 9 months, with the LTS being at 18 months.

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2009-11-06
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> Or even one release every 9 months, with the LTS being at 18 months.

The LTS is every three years, normally.  With 3 releases in between at 6 month intervals.

But 2 - 9 month releases, between LTS would be fine.  

I mean, Mandriva only releases once a year, OpenSuSE LTS's are 3 years between, with Milestones every 9-12 months.  Fedora is every 6 month's or so, but I think Fedora is a rolling release.

I bring these three distributions up, because they all have the highest reputation in the Linux Community.  Solid, Stable, releases.  Ubuntu is at the top of that list, and could be "the" trend setter in this bug-free fight.

---

### Post by empty_spaces on 2009-11-06
> **michaelzap said:**
> 

Perhaps the release schedule just ought to be a bit longer. Maybe one release per year or one every nine months. A little more time for testing couldn't hurt.


Well, here's a thought. Maybe Canonical should do a Community Release every 6 months, and then do a Mainstream Release 3 months later.
The community release will help test on a much wider range of hardware, will satisfy the early adopters, and keep the inexperienced users away until the additional bugfixes are released.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-06
> **empty_spaces said:**
> Well, here's a thought. Maybe Canonical should do a Community Release every 6 months, and then do a Mainstream Release 3 months later.
The community release will help test on a much wider range of hardware, will satisfy the early adopters, and keep the inexperienced users away until the additional bugfixes are released.

I'd vote for that!

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2009-11-06
> **empty_spaces said:**
> Well, here's a thought. Maybe Canonical should do a Community Release every 6 months, and then do a Mainstream Release 3 months later.
The community release will help test on a much wider range of hardware, will satisfy the early adopters, and keep the inexperienced users away until the additional bugfixes are released.

Now that's a great idea.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **empty_spaces said:**
> Well, here's a thought. Maybe Canonical should do a Community Release every 6 months, and then do a Mainstream Release 3 months later.
The community release will help test on a much wider range of hardware, will satisfy the early adopters, and keep the inexperienced users away until the additional bugfixes are released.

That sounds good, but I have seen quite a few noobs that actually installed Alpha 5 thinking it was ready, then got mad when nobody was able to help them fix their system.

---

### Post by madverb on 2009-11-06
How about... no?

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **madverb said:**
> How about... no?

No what?

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2009-11-06
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> No what?

Ususally when you see random answers like that, they are answering the title of the thread.

---

### Post by FiveSidedPoly on 2009-11-06
I would hope that Karmic is not Ubuntu's Vista for several reasons.
 
1. Windows 7, although much of a improvement over Vista, it still hasn't turned out to be much more then a revised Vista. If Lucid is the same, I'll be quite sad.
 
2. M$ will be coming out with new "revisions" of the next big NEW Windows every few years now that they see people will still buy after they bought the horrible product Vista was.
 
3. I would hope we can look back and say Karmic was be more like Windows ME because after it came WinXP, lets be honest, XP stood for a long time as a decent OS. (some say too long, others say not long enough) If Lucid can become what WinXP became for M$, then I think many people will very happy.
 
Just think, if you're not part of the solution, you are part of the problem. Turn in bug reports, ask questions to your problems in a decent manner, and help out everyone else if you can even if it's small.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-06
> **FiveSidedPoly said:**
> I would hope that Karmic is not Ubuntu's Vista for several reasons.
 
1. Windows 7, although much of a improvement over Vista, it still hasn't turned out to be much more then a revised Vista. If Lucid is the same, I'll be quite sad.
 
2. M$ will be coming out with new "revisions" of the next big NEW Windows every few years now that they see people will still buy after they bought the horrible product Vista was.
 
3. I would hope we can look back and say Karmic was be more like Windows ME because after it came WinXP, lets be honest, XP stood for a long time as a decent OS. (some say too long, others say not long enough) If Lucid can become what WinXP became for M$, then I think many people will very happy.
 
Just think, if you're not part of the solution, you are part of the problem. Turn in bug reports,** ask questions to your problems in a decent manne**r, and **help out everyone else if you can even if it's small.**

I agree 100%. 

I think I found a problem that is going to make me go back to 9.04 for a while. I posted a help thread, so I will give it a few days to see if there is a fix first.

---

### Post by rb0171610 on 2009-11-06
> **P4man said:**
> If you're having problems with 9.04 where it worked fine before, I bet you it has nothing to do with Karmic but everything with your machine. You may have bad ram or a dying harddisk, but its impossible that your laptop somehow remembers you once ran Karmic and punishes you for it by freezing in other OSs

Im fine with constructive criticism of Karmic, and much  of it is quite warranted but you have a very different problem.

Run memtest, and check your harddisk  with a good diagnostics tool to start with.
I disagree.  To asume that the OP is having problems with ram or a dying hard disk is a stretch.  He gave valid reasons why he is having problems.  Of course there are problems, look at the forums.

I don't think you are fine with constructive criticism of Karmic or even Ubuntu for that matter.

---

### Post by Simian Man on 2009-11-06
> **madverb said:**
> How about... no?

I agree, Vista was actually quite a good OS :).

---

### Post by madverb on 2009-11-06
> **Shibblet said:**
> Ususally when you see random answers like that, they are answering the title of the thread.
I like the cut of your Jib.

---

### Post by shark1997 on 2009-11-06
In some ways this is true

For me, visual effects would not work until i made metacity do the compositing.

But this a lot different than vista
In ubuntu you can actually SOLVE your problem, you just need to do it
In vista you are stuck

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2009-11-06
> **madverb said:**
> I like the cut of your Jib.

Man, you ain't supposed to be lookin' at my jib!  ;)

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-11-07
Locked. Thread has run its course.

---

