---
title: "9.10 to 10.04 LTS: what a hassle!"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by TideMan on 2010-04-29
A few months ago I upgraded from 8.04 LTS to 9.10.
  
I found upgrading an awful hassle because of all the extra programs that I had loaded in 8.04: conky, gfortran, Matlab, netCDF, GrADS DODS, wgrib2, etc, etc, etc.  All of these had to be re-installed. Also, I found that all my Fortran programs (dozens of them) had to be re-compiled and re-linked. Otherwise, they wouldn't work.  It took me weeks to get the machine back to the way I wanted it.

Now, I see 10.04 LTS is available. but I'm loth to go through that hassle again anytime soon.  

How do others handle this?

---

### Post by loell on 2010-04-29
moved..

---

### Post by Jazzy_Jeff on 2010-04-29
Any time I install a new version I always do a clean install. I have a list of programs that I have installed outside of the repositories and just reload them when I am done installing the new version of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by TideMan on 2010-04-29
> **Jazzy_Jeff said:**
> Any time I install a new version I always do a clean install. I have a list of programs that I have installed outside of the repositories and just reload them when I am done installing the new version of Ubuntu.

Where do you get that list from?
I find I only realise I haven't re-loaded something when I go to use it and it's not there.

---

### Post by infamous-online on 2010-04-29
> **Jazzy_Jeff said:**
> Any time I install a new version I always do a clean install. I have a list of programs that I have installed outside of the repositories and just reload them when I am done installing the new version of Ubuntu.

That's exactly what I do, no need doing an upgrade when a clean install is faster and to me more reliable. Just my two cents though.

---

### Post by Timmer1240 on 2010-04-30
I like the Karmic its makin me happy not upgrading!

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-04-30
> **infamous-online said:**
> That's exactly what I do, no need doing an upgrade when a clean install is faster and to me more reliable. Just my two cents though.

This.

Flawless experience since the RC release. 

Overwriting (upgrading) cruft/file errors/and bit rot doesn't appeal to me. A clean install just gives me peace of mind.

---

### Post by OgreProgrammer on 2010-04-30
I'm weighing in on the fresh install idea. Its what I always do.

You build a list of things you install as you go. Always have /home as a separate partition. 

When a new version comes out, install fresh, run updates and then open that list. Ubuntu tweak is handy for adding common repositories: it takes care of  adding them and getting the keys.  

You can probably find the bulk of the items in your list in ubuntu tweaks version of the software center. If its not there, hit synaptic. 

What I would like to see is more applications installing in the users /home. Most of us are single account users and it would make upgrades and fresh installs even easier.

---

