---
title: "12.04 is a mess"
date: 2012-11-03
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by DrGood on 2012-11-03
I am very disappointed with 12.04. It crashes with regularity as does Firefox running on it and Thunderbird won't work properly either and the ISO for 12.1 won't load. All it does is mess up 12.04 even more. It used to be Ubuntu was the most reliable OS anywhere now it's worse than even Windows.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2012-11-03
Hi and if you have issue with Ubuntu please post the issue and the hardware specs for assistance. 
Moved to  Ubuntu Testimonials & Experiences

---

### Post by exploder on 2012-11-03
The only fixing I had to do to 12.04 was to turn off apport and copy and paste a line into the terminal to fix mp4 playback. I have 12.04 running on 3 desktops and 1 laptop, it is trouble free.

I had 12.10 on my laptop for a short time but I missed the speed of 12.04 and I just couldn't part with the long term support. An update also resolved an issue I was having with ATI discrete graphics. My laptop runs like a top now.

I did a clean install on all of my machines after backing up all my data of course. I am totally content with 12.04 until the next LTS release comes out.:)

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2012-11-04
> DrGood
It used to be Ubuntu was the most reliable OS anywhere now it's worse than even Windows. 	

Doubt telling you it works for others is going to  improve your situation. I think overdrank is on target. Start a thread in the  appropriate help section and don't forget to post you specs and  issue(s).

If not, you may wish to try an alternative Linux disto or one of the other flavors of Ubutnu (Xubuntu, Kubuntu or Lubuntu).  Sorry your having problems and hope you get them resolved.

Good Luck

---

