---
title: "9.10 kola beta grade, B++/A--"
date: 2009-10-28
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by shnurui on 2009-10-28
"Out of the box time" A+
"Ease of use" A+

"Component recognition" C (veo stingray camera-Fail, DVD recognized as cdrom0)

"Media compatibility" C (dvd/cd hot swap fail)  DVD video 5.1 with integrated player works.  Multiple flash drives conflict with eachother/video cameras/scanners.  USB 2.0 fail.

"Sound Experience" B (5.1/duplex swap-Fail, must manually set soundcard output to duplex for regular music playing and surround settings activate manually as well.  Can't blame it on the players, used 4 different ones with the same result.

"Video Experience" A+ (Nvidia agp 512 1.5ghz 2gig ram msi 7021)

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-10-28
I have installed on many different systems and all label cd drives the same no matter what the specs are.

---

### Post by shnurui on 2009-10-28
> **running_rabbit07 said:**
> I have installed on many different systems and all label cd drives the same no matter what the specs are.

yes, the issue is it doesn't recognize it as a hot swap device.

---

### Post by Dark_Stang on 2009-10-29
> **shnurui said:**
> yes, the issue is it doesn't recognize it as a hot swap device.
I'm a little confused here, hot swappable as in...
Pop a CD in and it works, the pop a dvd in and it works or...
It's a sata drive that you pop out and replace with other things.

I've never had an issue with Ubuntu, or any OS other than windows (filter issues), not recognizing and using a properly functioning drive correctly. And what do you mean the flash drives conflict with each other? Are you having issues where one drive is causing problems with another drive? Please be a little more specific here. Same thing with the camera. Does the camera not work at all or is it hazy or... what?

Sound experience: I can't really see this as a fail. The computer can't read your mind and figure out exactly how you want the sound to be set up.

---

### Post by shnurui on 2009-11-08
> **Dark_Stang said:**
> I'm a little confused here, hot swappable as in...
Pop a CD in and it works, the pop a dvd in and it works or...
It's a sata drive that you pop out and replace with other things.

I've never had an issue with Ubuntu, or any OS other than windows (filter issues), not recognizing and using a properly functioning drive correctly. And what do you mean the flash drives conflict with each other? Are you having issues where one drive is causing problems with another drive? Please be a little more specific here. Same thing with the camera. Does the camera not work at all or is it hazy or... what?

Sound experience: I can't really see this as a fail. The computer can't read your mind and figure out exactly how you want the sound to be set up.

cdrom(X) issues:
Hot swap as in the manual eject button on the outside of the drive fails to send the signal to the OS that EJECT command has been manually evoked and you will need to refresh your information shortly.

Sound Issues-
If my on board is on, my soundblaster stops working.
my soundblaster refuses to talk to the mic.
my realtek onboard confuses the pulse audio.

I want to set up my front ports to use a headset(realtek) (scype voip, sl etc) while my back ports run game sounds, music etc.  Or, should I be forced to insert a second soundblaster, one for the headset one for the audio output.

Really I'd just like to be able fine tune what sound stream is i/o which jack.  Un restricted jacks should function bi directionally, including digital.

Or since my realtek mic input seems to be fried, the other way around.

This is FAIL because it doesn't have the option of letting me tell it what I want.  I mean seriously WTF is wrong with using a mic?  Why is it wrong to want to use a mic?  HMM?  I want my mic to work that's why I went out and bought a SB in the First Place?(to replace the OB Realtek)

Camera does not work at all.  I get a static line code bar from both the egg(xp veo stingray) and the cam corder (VuPoint xp vista dv-da1-vp).

I haven't even tried to think about connecting my cassio yet.

That's right, Ubuntu for gamers/non musical artist = win.
Ubuntu for Musicians/DJs/singers/voip users = C- at best.

---

