---
title: "7.10....the most fun I have had with a computer in years!"
date: 2007-11-14
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by truthbrush on 2007-11-14
I am a newbie to ubuntu but have always wanted to ditch windows and go with a linux distro, have tried lots over the years and even with fiesty I seemed to spend too many hours trying to get my hardware working and software setup to do what I do.....

7.10 is a massive step forwards in my opinon as there is just that feel that the OS is helping you to get things going.  Detection on my graphics card and monitor were faultless and too my printers, scanners, usb drives......configuring software was a dream too and in an enjoyable evening I am now typing this whilst listen to my music :)

Just a huge 'thanks' and 'well done' to everyone at team ubuntu.....be scared Microsoft, be very scared.....this is a great OS.

Not sure if I have posted this in the right area, but just thought other newbies should know that this is gooooooood! Get in an have a go.

Ubuntu :guitar:

---

### Post by Romin-1 on 2007-11-14
My sentiments entirely,,,

Jon

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-11-14
Welcome and we are glad that everything works the way you want :).

If you have any questions, please fell free to ask. Hopefully you will enjoy your experience !

---

### Post by Dr Small on 2007-11-14
Glad to see that you had an excellent expirence with Ubuntu, this time around :)
If you have any questions, you are at the right spot to do it ;)

Dr Small

---

### Post by kade on 2007-11-14
Happy to hear that your experience has been good.  I recently switched to Ubuntu (no dual-boot either) and am enjoying the smooth and fast functionality of the OS.  Hope you continue to find new things to enjoy about your OS.  :)

---

### Post by Sef on 2007-11-14
Moved to Ubuntu Testimonials and Experiences.

---

### Post by Giradman on 2007-11-14
New to Ubuntu 7.1 myself - put on an older IBM laptop (TP X40) after needing to replace the HD (had XP) & increasing RAM to 512 MB - still using Windows (home & office), but thoroughly enjoying & excited about this Linux OS - have not been as fascinated about learning more about an OS since my first computer (an Apple II+, bought back in 1980!)  :)

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2007-11-14
welcome! you've come to the right place. if you enjoy it half as much as i do, you'll be spending alot of time exploring and learning. good luck, and most important, have fun.

---

### Post by matthewcraig on 2007-11-15
On having fun with Ubuntu... Linux reminds me of the thrilled feeling that I had when I first started using computers in the early-home-PC days, when I decided this computing thing was for me.  I never noticed that I had lost the excitement until I had it back again.

I share your sentiments completely.  Ubuntu is the BEST operating system out today!

---

