---
title: "10.10 Fresh install on AMD X4 965 Thoughts."
date: 2011-01-03
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by grunge09 on 2011-01-03
I had my main system (AMD 6000+) happily running 9.04 i386, and realised that I was not getting nagged with pops from update manager about doing updates.  So I manually started one and it says 9.04 is no longer supported.  Crap!

Now I had tried at some point to goto 9.04 to 9.10 but even a clean install on the Amd 965 system then update to 9.10 would make the system a vegetable.  So I left 9.04 alone (if it ain't broke don't fix it right).

I have had this system I built last year to play games on (Amd X4 965 3.4GHz) just sitting there.  So I installed 10.10 X64 on it.  installed all the apps I had on the other system that I was using, Copied my files to an eSata external drive from the old machine , then to the amd 965 machine.  

Except for a hiccup with Thunderbird e-mail (seems one of the upgrades had e-mail point to 2 different directories, my e-mail accts were still .mozilla-thunderbird and the e-mail itself was .thunderbird (on the old machine).  I had just never noticed it until I went to install it on the new machine.

Needless to say the 1st couple of times I copied the mail folder over to the new machine and tried to run it only half the mail accts were there,   Once I stated poking around I figured out what was happening, so I made a separate directory and merged the local folder with the right mail, then copied that to the new machine and changed the pointer to see that folder and restarted and all is well.  

It remembered everything, all the accts, the e-mail, message filters.  YES!

Seems a little perkier than the old system.

Old System                 

Ubuntu i386 v9.04
AMD x2 6000+               
3 GB DDr2 Ram                
500 GB Sata 2 drive          
IDE DVDRW Drive              
1.44 Floppy                  
ATI 4350 PCI Express         
Chieftec Full Tower          

New System

Ubuntu 64 bit v10.10
Amd x4 965 Black Box
4 GB DDR3 1600 Ram
250 Sata 2 Drive (yeah I will upgrade this soon)
Sata DVD RW Drive
Floppy whats that????? (put a multi card reader in its place)
ATI 4650 PCI Express
Nzxt Guarding Mid Tower (clue cylon eye)

I will keep both systems like they are for a little while, then clone the drive so I have 2 10.10 systems.  Do that with XP or W7 and watch Ms have a royal fit.  Linux (except for the reload display drivers) goes ok no problem.  

Thanks ubuntu.  Been using Ubuntu since Dec 2005 and happy with it.

BTW I had w7 on the AMD 965 Box and would mess with it from time to time, but I did not like it.  

Now M$ CD is a coaster.  Thats all a M$ CD is good for.

---

### Post by johntaylor1887 on 2011-01-04
> **grunge09 said:**
> 
Now M$ CD is a coaster.  Thats all a M$ CD is good for.

I actually use a windows cd as a coaster! :lolflag:

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-01-04
> **grunge09 said:**
>  
Ubuntu i386 v9.04
AMD x2 6000+ 
3 GB DDr2 Ram 
500 GB Sata 2 drive 
IDE DVDRW Drive 
1.44 Floppy 
ATI 4350 PCI Express 
Chieftec Full Tower 
 
 
this one should run 10.04 LTS or 10.10 just fine. why stay on 9.04?

---

### Post by grunge09 on 2011-01-04
> **mastablasta said:**
> this one should run 10.04 LTS or 10.10 just fine. why stay on 9.04?

For a couple of weeks to make sure 10.10 is stable and I did not miss anything copying data over.

Then I will clone the drives so I have 2 identical 10.10 installations.  

One day ideally I want to have my home directories on my local lan, so the local machine if it dies for some reason I do not lose any data.   Its safe on the network.  

Right now I use rsync to back the data up to a 4TB 3.06GHz P4 Rackmount NAS (bought at auction for dirt cheap - it has 16 250gb SATA drives in it, That sucker is loud.  So I only have it on when I do the backups.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-04
10.04 LTS is the current long term support release and has an extra year's support over 10.10. :) (also stabler).

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-01-05
> **grunge09 said:**
>  
Then I will clone the drives so I have 2 identical 10.10 installations. 
 
 
ok, but unless you have some programmes that are complicated to install i am not sure why cloning would be necessary. afterall configurations of computers are different and different drivers will be called/loaded so they won't be exactly the same system anyway.

---

### Post by armandh on 2011-01-05
I just tripple booted the wife's laptop 
new 10.04, old 8.04, and seldom used vista

the amazon music downloader 
that workes in 8.04 did not work in 10.04
dependcy problem

otherwise the wife is getting settled in at 10.04

---

### Post by Sef on 2011-01-06
> 10.04 LTS is the current long term support release and has an extra year's support over 10.10.

The desktop has an extra 18 months worth of support, while the server edition has an extra 3 1/2 years worth of support.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-06
> **Sef said:**
> The desktop has an extra 18 months worth of support, while the server edition has an extra 3 1/2 years worth of support.

Of course! April to October = six months! :lolflag:
Never thought of that. Cheers Sef.

---

