---
title: "8.10: My Ubuntu Intrepid Ibex Experience"
date: 2008-11-15
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by kestal on 2008-11-15
So I have done it, like a lot of you have. Others are toying with the idea. Some probably are waiting until Jaunty. I will admit, this version is more polished than 8.04. I've been toying with it for a bit and I think I have done quite a bit (for a 'noob')

**Things to Note:**
[[COLOR="MediumTurquoise"]**X**[/COLOR]] Installed the Newest stable Kernal.
[[COLOR="MediumTurquoise"]**X**[/COLOR]] Installed Wine 1.1.8
[[COLOR="MediumTurquoise"]**X**[/COLOR]] Installed Preload
[[COLOR="MediumTurquoise"]**X**[/COLOR]] Im using the Dust theme from gnome-look.
[[COLOR="MediumTurquoise"]**X**[/COLOR]] My Bootchart is given as an attachment for further inspection. Maybe someone can help shed some more seconds? ;)

[B]
Effortless Installations:[/B]
[[COLOR="YellowGreen"]**X**[/COLOR]]Sunbird 0.9
[[COLOR="YellowGreen"]**X**[/COLOR]]Firefox 3.0.4
[[COLOR="YellowGreen"]**X**[/COLOR]]Shere_Khan_X Cursor (I couldn't resist a bit of Mac ;) )
[[COLOR="YellowGreen"]**X**[/COLOR]]Automatic Login (with no Keyrings)
[[COLOR="YellowGreen"]**X**[/COLOR]]Simple-CCSM and Compiz Fusion 0.7.8

**Somewhat Effortless: (but works perfectly)**
[[COLOR="DarkOrange"]**X**[/COLOR]] Removed all the services I didn't need.
[[COLOR="DarkOrange"]**X**[/COLOR]] Cut my boot time to about 40 seconds. (Before: 1min 15)
[[COLOR="DarkOrange"]**X**[/COLOR]] Running Office 2007 (Word/Excel) via Wine.
[[COLOR="DarkOrange"]**X**[/COLOR]] Photoshop CS4 (Still a few problems)
[[COLOR="DarkOrange"]**X**[/COLOR]] 
[B]
My Shame List:[/B]
[[COLOR="Red"]**X**[/COLOR]] Office 2007 Powerpoint. Just doesn't boot up. Gives me an error.
[[COLOR="Red"]**X**[/COLOR]] uSplash via Startup Manager.
[[COLOR="Red"]**X**[/COLOR]] Mac-Menu for the top panel.
[[COLOR="Red"]**X**[/COLOR]] Having a 40s boot. Windoze had 25s. *waits for 9.04*
[[COLOR="Red"]**X**[/COLOR]] Galaxium on Ibex has problems. so I wait.
[[COLOR="Red"]**X**[/COLOR]] Suspend/Hibernate resume gives me a white screen.
[[COLOR="Red"]**X**[/COLOR]] Some graphics corruption, but my video card on the laptop is about to die. (*sighs*)
[[COLOR="Red"]**X**[/COLOR]] I cannot dualboot with XP if I wanted to. The installation overheats my setup and it causes a thermal shutdown. Ubuntu doesnt though, fancy that.

**********************************************
**The Things which may break or make the deal:**
**********************************************

1) I cannot wait until Jaunty. One of the 9.04's main focus is boot time and application speeds. This will open up a lot of opportunities, especially now with sReadahead (google ref: [COLOR="Gray"]"5 second boot"[/COLOR])

2) Wine lets me effortlessly use Office 2007 Excel and Word. I prefer those as, unfortunetely, thats what my college is using and we do a lot of time-based projects. So I might as well keep the interface. Loads up as quickly as Open Office for me though, which is great.

3) My previous game, although I do not play it as much anymore.. "Shaiya" .. with a few moderate hacks (though of course, questionable), can now run with Wine. I might try to check that out. It might be a good reason to test it out again :)

4) Webcam Support: I found a few open source drivers which helped clear up the image and make it brighter. (Previously, the brightest was waaaay too dark). With this said, I am eagerly waiting for the developers of Galaxium or aMSN (or any other MSN client with webcam support) to come out with their next release so I can test it out.

5) I do have some graphics corruption sadly enough. Ie) If I change from desktop A and move to Desktop B, restart... upon boot up, I will see slivers of graphics from Desktop A for a second or two until the GDM sequence kicks in. Then various times I have residual traces on the desktop itself (until I move an icon over it and away from it).

I say this is a video card problem cuz it never used to happen on my out of the box 8.04 install. I tried to install 8.04 when I noticed this and it started to happen on that too. Quite sad.

6) I am eagerly waiting for 9.04 to come, either that or a more detailed explanation on how to modify what I need and use sReadahead to get quicker boot times. I know there is A LOT that I have not removed. I only use 1 USB at a time, I do not use mic, I do not use s-video, or VGA, I do not use my card reader ever, or wired, etc etc.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-11-15
so i take it that overall you like it?

anyway, if it doesn't work out, there are many other really good  distros out there. if you don't mind tweaking a little, debian lenny is awesome. solid as a rock. good luck and have fun. 

until i build a new computer, i'm staying with 8.04. it's works great for me.

and don't forget about **8.04.2** (january?) each point release will have updated support for new hardware, and all updates rolled up into it. should be pretty sweet.

---

### Post by kestal on 2008-11-16
> **wolfen69 said:**
> so i take it that overall you like it?

anyway, if it doesn't work out, there are many other really good  distros out there. if you don't mind tweaking a little, debian lenny is awesome. solid as a rock. good luck and have fun. 

until i build a new computer, i'm staying with 8.04. it's works great for me.

and don't forget about **8.04.2** (january?) each point release will have updated support for new hardware, and all updates rolled up into it. should be pretty sweet.


See, when I was looking at Debian (it was suggested for me cuz I like to tweak things), the website looked confusing. Couldn't find simple links to distro files (the ones I found were like 8+ cd's, and I could only assume thats all the files in the repo)? Well, I might try ubuntu 8.10 64-bit alt cd, and choose all the packages I'd need.

I had a few problems with 8.04, the boot times (in my opinion) were horrible (at least in comparison to 8.10). However, if 8.04.2 fixes the broadcom out of the box bug, I might try it out.

I still have to learn what I can do to change things and tweak them to shed off boot loads. I am such a tweaker, in XP I took a 60s boot and turned it into a 20s.

I just recently started looking at latencytop/powertop. Not quite sure how to use those yet, or bootchart (but figured I could include the file, anyway)

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-11-16
[Here]("http://cdimage.debian.org/cdimage/lenny_di_rc1/i386/iso-cd/debian-testing-i386-CD-1.iso") is CD-1 of debian lenny rc1. it is near finished and very stable. cd1 is all you need for a regular install. just remember to change your sources list over to "stable" after the final release.

---

