---
title: "10.10 Initial Impressions"
date: 2010-10-10
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Lvcoyote on 2010-10-10
Well, not so good..... for me anyway.

Setup will not see a hard drive hooked to a SATA controller that is set to raid, even if the target drive is not part of an array.  This used to work fine in 8.04 but every distro since has this feature borked.

After initial install I went to browse the network and it saw all the Win7 machines on my network and let me right in to share/swap files.  Then I set up a brother network printer, hooked to the same router as all the computers are.  Set up for that went easy but it borked the network file sharing, now it reports the inability to mount the shares, all of them.

The next printer I went to set up was an HP F4140 that is shared on one of the other Win7 machines, tried to add it using Samba, Ubuntu 10.10 even had the drivers for it built in and found the printer easily..... but no printing completes, the best it can do is make the F4140 clunk a few times and act like it wants to print.  This F4140 HP printer has never worked with any distro but my hopes were high for 10.04 as it was the first distro to actually have the printer listed when searching for the driver.

I'll wait a month or so and try again, maybe some of these bugs will get worked out with updates by then.  Other than it being totally worthless on my network, it makes a nice internet browsing and basic office function machine...... as long as I don't need to swap files or print to the HP F4140 printer......LOL

---

### Post by arunb on 2010-10-10
sorry printer did not work for you. HP has very good support for linux. I managed to configure my printer for network printing without any problem (Ubuntu 10.04), I can also access all my Windows workgroups using samba.

---

### Post by Lvcoyote on 2010-10-10
Yea, like I said it worked at first but as soon as I added the network printer it messed something up where I can no longer access files on the Win7 machines.  The network printer works fine though and I can print to it.... I'll have to dig up an old thread I used to get it working in 10.04, which eventually quite letting me access the windows shares also.  I guess the point is Ubuntu proclaims its "For Human Beings", which implies you should be able to get the most simple of functions like sharing files and printing to work extremely easily without having to spend a lot of time researching, tweaking, etc.

Although Ubuntu and Linux in general has come a long way over the last few years, it's still anything but user friendly.

---

### Post by blwizard on 2010-10-11
I'll probably pass on this release because I can't risk upgrading my two desktops at this stage there is a lot of important work on them. I might have a try of the new interface in the netbook edition though.

---

### Post by ubunterooster on 2010-10-11
> **Lvcoyote said:**
> Although Ubuntu and Linux in general has come a long way over the last few years, it's still anything but user friendly.
"User friendly" is based on an experience and is not altogether true for all. For me Windows was a complete networking pain and every time more than one windows machine went on the network the one would make the other get disconnected. 

Operating systems are not inherently user friendly. User friendly also depends on your polarity; what is obvious for one is confusing for another. For example, KDE still baffles me but gnome, lxde and xfce are for me more user friendly

---

### Post by markmill73 on 2010-10-11
I like it but it does seem to be quite buggy. I found 10.04 nice and stable. So i think i may be going back there.

---

### Post by jkxx on 2010-10-11
> "User friendly" is based on an experience and is not altogether true for all. For me Windows was a complete networking pain and every time more than one windows machine went on the network the one would make the other get disconnected. 

Totally agree, I don't think I've had file sharing work on the windows side in years. Not with XP, not with Vista, not with 7, not with any of the computers at home. Granted it's just my experience but it's been a solid bad experience there.

Ubuntu, on the other hand, allowed me to install proftpd in about 2 minutes after which I could access the 'shared' files with either a browser or WinSCP/FileZilla on the windows machines and it worked flawlessly.

---

### Post by Jerry N on 2010-10-13
10.10 installed without difficulties for me.  Connection to my Windows based network worked just fine, same as with 10.04 and Mint 9.  Installation of Crossover 9.x from a .deb file went smoothly, as did the subsequent installation of Microsoft Office 97.  Installation of updates and software from the repositories was glacially slow, about 85 kb per second.  That was last night.  Installation of the same software (Okular) for Mint 9 (same as Ubuntu 10.04) today proceeded at about 850 kb per second.  Different day, different repositories.

All in all, looks and works just like 10.04 for me.  

Jerry

---

### Post by Lvcoyote on 2010-10-22
As time permits I've been experimenting with 10.10 vs. 10.04.  For some odd reason 10.10 installs/runs/performs very sluggishly on both of my EVGA X58 based systems.  I also have 10.10 installed on another EVGA P55 based system and it runs excellent on that machine.  10.04 runs superb on all three of the machines.  I have my SATA hard drives hooked to the Intel controllers on all three of the boards.  As for the two X58 based systems I've set the Intel controller to Raid/ACHI/IDE and the install and performance of 10.10 was the same regardless of how the controller was set.....sluggish.  On the P55 based system I again set the Intel controller to Raid/ACHI/IDE and in all three instances 10.10 installed and ran beautifully.

I'm not sure if this is a EVGA issue or an Intel X58 issue, but like I said 10.04 LTS installs and runs awesome on the X58 platforms in any controller mode.

Just some info I thought I'd share with you guys!

---

