---
title: "UNR 10.10 and how I switched back to Windows."
date: 2010-10-13
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by yerayenrique on 2010-10-13
Hi there,


Here's a short sad story:

When trying Ubuntu Netbook Remix 10.10 it only took me 10 minutes to realise it was the most absolutely disgusting Linux I have ever installed. I hated the new menus, I hated Unity from the very beggining (damn slow and it would crash extremely often), couldn't find my app's in the repos, couldn't find my applications without having to type their names in the very ugly menus (maybe I didn't give myself enough time to learn, but with Unity crashing every 2 minutes, who would?)... In general, I very much hated UNR10.10.

The sad thing about this is that I tried another distros (Moblin, Meego (put away for not letting me configure my own DNS's), Jolicloud (put away for being too "in the cloud", etc) and I decided that I would go back to Windows. This was never in my mind as I absolutely wanted to walk away from mr. Gate's soft. but I had to come back. Like it or not, it just works and Window7 is amazing.

Let's hope future Ubuntu's LTS release is, at least, as good as 10.04.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2010-10-13
Not sure why this got posted in a support forum - moved to testimonial and experience

---

### Post by PhilGil on 2010-10-13
> **yerayenrique said:**
> Let's hope future Ubuntu's LTS release is, at least, as good as 10.04.
If 10.04 was good for you why not use it? Or, if you must have 10.10, you could use the desktop edition with a dock and have a very similar experience to UNE.

It seems pretty obvious that 10.10 UNE was not ready for release. It's unfortunate, but it happens now and then with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by 1roxtar on 2010-10-13
> **yerayenrique said:**
> Let's hope future Ubuntu's LTS release is, at least, as good as 10.04.

Why didn't you just switch back to 10.04???

I hate statements like these...."10.04 works great on my computer, but 10.10 didn't so I'm going back to Windows."  How asinine is that?  Just go with what worked best on your machine.  

When I used 9.04, I got a lot of laggy video, but I didn't tuck tail and run.  9.10 worked much better, but I had sound problems on one of my machines. I didn't run away then either.  I found the solution easily, thanks to the forums. I have been immensely impressed with 10.04 and 10.10.  I only had issues with alphas and betas, but that's what they do. 

I don't like Unity either, but the 10.04 netbook UI is much nicer and very user-friendly.  As with using various distros too, find what works best with your particular computer.  Personally, when "I" said I'm not looking back after I ditched Windows, I meant it.  No OS is perfect, but in the long run with Linux, the solutions are much easier to find, in my opinion.  (Whew!  That's my two cents.)

---

### Post by x-shaney-x on 2010-10-13
Yea I'm finding the new netbook edition very glitchy.
I have really been looking forward to it but admit during maverick testing I was having concerns but hoped everything would be ironed out for release.

It's not the case though.  I think they should be applauded for what they have managed from scratch in a single development cycle but sadly it's just not quite ready yet.

---

### Post by ubunterooster on 2010-10-13
> **PhilGil said:**
> If 10.04 was good for you why not use it?
Agreed, 10.04 is an LTS, I recommend users to stay there as much as is possible

---

### Post by anoop999 on 2010-10-13
I was also disappointed that Ubuntu released a netbook edition which is not fit for purpose.

So I selected 'Ubuntu Desktop Edition' as the default login, and used the standard GNOME desktop instead, which is fantastic.

---

### Post by andymorton on 2010-10-13
There's no reason why you can't use the standard desktop edition on a netbook (or as has been suggested, just choose the desktop interface at log in).

I'm running standard Ubuntu 10.10 on my HP Mini and it works flawlessly. It had Windows 7 when I bought it and, although I was pleasantly suprised, Ubuntu is faster, easier to use, more configurable etc,

andy

---

### Post by marl30 on 2010-10-13
> **anoop999 said:**
> I was also disappointed that Ubuntu released a netbook edition which is not fit for purpose.

So I selected 'Ubuntu Desktop Edition' as the default login, and used the standard GNOME desktop instead, which is fantastic.

This should have been the OP's next step. Just go to Synaptic Package Manager and remove the Ubuntu-mobile-default-settings, then install Ubuntu-desktop to replace it.

---

### Post by kio_http on 2010-10-15
Why don't you give Kubuntu Netbook UI a shot?

---

