---
title: "8.04 am so disappointed"
date: 2008-05-14
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by akkad on 2008-05-14
in fact am experiencing many bugs since 8.04 freshly installed, i dont know what to say but i hope from developers to extend the period between ubuntu releases(may be 1 year over 6 months) so that they can test it well before the end users fall in bugs pool, ubuntu is linux, linux means to me stability, so i wish if u can protect this feature, i hope from u to consider from what is happening to windows vista, i used to be a windows user but now am driving well on ubuntu, so please save the 'stability(linux=no reboot)' concept in ubuntu and leave the other formalisms(like vista graphics) to sink.

thanks anyway for every effort in developing ubuntu for us ...

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-05-14
Moved to Testimonials and Experiences.

As for one's experience, it depends on one's hardware.  For me, things worked  out of the box (ootb.)

---

### Post by asrai on 2008-05-14
Hardy works fine for me, do you want to provide some details about the problems you are experiencing so we can help you out?

There are a lot of linux distributions that focus on different things.  There are other distros that have new releases on a less regular basis and one of those may suit you better - but why not give us a chance to help first?

---

### Post by rune0077 on 2008-05-14
I agree that it depends very much on the hardware. This is also true for people's Vista-experiences: I never had any problem with Vista, but know lots of people that did. I did however have lots of problems with Gutsy, but Hardy has fixed all those (except my wireless issues) for me and is running really well.

---

### Post by mivo on 2008-05-14
Hardy works better for me than Gutsy did, actually. I always do fresh installs when a new version comes out, though. There were some initial issues, like the trashcan icon not changing after emptying the bin (this was fixed in today's updates) or the pink window shadows on Nvidia cards (fix was posted on the forums here), but all in all it was a smooth sailing. FF3 works particularly well for me, I didn't have any of the font troubles I had in Gutsy and FF2, though not everyone shares that experience.

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2008-05-14
Hardy has worked fantastically for me. By far my faveourite version so far. Everything worked out of the box, wireless is fantastic, (in fact i get better wireless performance from hardy than i do windows), and overall very happy ;)

---

### Post by akkad on 2008-05-14
thnx 4 ur fast responses, and sure i do like from u to help me, actually all my posts in this forum were to ask for a help, any way, here are my problems on both of my laptops (dell inspiron and lenovo R61) :

- the keyboard gets crazy from time to time, when i try to use shift to type capitals or special chars it doesnt allow me instead it types like i didnt press shift (ex: shift + 7 it types 7 instead of &), aslo like press enter on terminal it will close it, here i would like u to take in mind that my vmware is running all the time, i am mentioning this bcuz may be vmware has a hand in this issue as it shares the hardware, but i didnt face this in the pre-release.[my solution:reboot]

- wireless card has a problem, i have a post for that [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=793808]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=793808")

- firefox hangs a lot, i heard that firefox has a problem with linux in general and i used to face this with the pre-realese but with 8.04 it hangs so frequently, but for this bug am not sure where to sort it, for ubuntu or mozilla ??

- screen resolution jumps to 800x600 when moving from/to vmware, rarely happens.

- lock-suspend-hibernate lead to system crash.

these my sorted problems, so plz help.

---

### Post by mde123 on 2008-06-03
why is this on absoulute beginner

---

### Post by CBrendan on 2008-06-03
I don't think the developers are focusing on making Hardy pretty at the expense of functionality.  That's more the latest developments on GNOME's part.  The challenge is making the latest GNOME, FireFox etc gel together and the developers have done a pretty good job thus far.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-06-05
> - firefox hangs a lot, i heard that firefox has a problem with linux in general and i used to face this with the pre-realese but with 8.04 it hangs so frequently, but for this bug am not sure where to sort it, for ubuntu or mozilla ??

- screen resolution jumps to 800x600 when moving from/to vmware, rarely happens.

- lock-suspend-hibernate lead to system crash.

these my sorted problems, so plz help.

Just start a separate post for each problem in Absolute Beginners.

---

### Post by yestoAPRS on 2008-06-06
I just downloaded 8.04 and was about to install it to run in a virtal machine window alongside windows vista which I am begining to despise, I also hate the facty that new computers come without serial db9 ports so I am unable to use my new computer with all my amateur radio gear.  USB to serial adapters don't work on Vista (drivers issue) anyway is Ubuntu Desktop version 8.04 any good or not?  I am running Ubuntu 7.10 on an old gateway box that had windows 98 on it and it does just fine although there isn't enough computer to run Google Earth mapping, it is very slow or locks the computer up and crashes entirely.  But I expected that to happen anyway.  I am running a Digi_Ned APRS digipeater on Ubuntu 7.10 and Xastir a online Tiger Mapping APRS program and if I leave it at that it does just fine.  Anyway I was wanting to put Ubuntu 8.04 on this new HP E2180 dual core Pentium 500 GB machine just to play with it for a while and see if I wanted to delet windows Vista Home crap permanantly.  Any ideas?:idea:

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-06-06
> ...is Ubuntu Desktop version 8.04 any good or not? 

It depends on your hardware.  For many of us it works just fine, but for others, there are problems.

> Anyway I was wanting to put Ubuntu 8.04 on this new HP E2180 dual core Pentium 500 GB machine just to play with it for a while and see if I wanted to delet windows Vista Home crap permanantly. Any ideas?

I would dual boot for a while.  Make sure that all is working ok with Ubuntu on your hardware.

---

### Post by azimuth on 2008-06-06
> **yestoAPRS said:**
>  I also hate the facty that new computers come without serial db9 ports so I am unable to use my new computer with all my amateur radio gear.  USB to serial adapters don't work on Vista (drivers issue) anyway is Ubuntu Desktop version 8.04 any good or not? 

USB to RS232 is iffy. The only way to find out for sure is install Ubuntu as dual boot and try your adapter. Your best bet, if you have an open PCI slot is an RS232 card. They are cheap and almost certain to be recognized by the Linux Kernel. 8.04 is absolutely good, but it is sometimes a crap-shoot on finicky hardware (and the newer stuff seems more finicky than the older gear).

Good Luck and 73
KB7CFD

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2008-06-08
> **yestoAPRS said:**
> I also hate the facty that new computers come without serial db9 ports

I understand that your amateur radio equipment needs serial ports, and I empathise with that; but... The 1980s called, and they're glad to have their data connection back :-)

---

### Post by marius.oldman on 2008-06-10
Hi guys,

I'm not really a beginner, neither with Unix nor with Ubunutu, but with HH I faced an very un-pleasant issue I could not get it fixed.

After I installed HH on my HP Pavilion laptop, I got beautiful (well known login screen), but when I type the user in, it's so huge the font that I can't seen it. A very similar issue I'm getting with the Google Earth with the splash screen.

Any idea of what can I do? Which is the common component behind these?

Any help will be much appreciated.

Thanks & have a nice day,
Marius

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2008-06-10
I cant say that Im disappointed in HH even though it didnt work
for me .  The first time I was going to install it was on a laptop
we are going to give to a friend.

Right away I encountered 2 major issues.
1 Dlink wireless card not working , very strange works out of the
box on 7.04 and 7.10. HMMMMMMMM

2. sloooooooooooooooowwwwwwwwwwwwwww were talking minutes between
windows.

First issue probably a HH issue with a fix. Didnt try.  Second issue. When I stopped to think about it and what I was doing
( this brought on one of those head smacking moments) I realized
this is not a HH issue it is a hardware/system issue.  I installed it on a Dell C600 800mz processor w/256 ram.  Duh.

Dropped back to 7.04 , everything works and is snappy.

BTW I have tried the live cd on several other machines and it works fine and looks good.

---

### Post by aalr1986 on 2008-06-10
I agree, it depends on your hardware.....
Gutsy didn't do the job for me, I had a lot of issues, and the os was buggy...

HH works perfectly, even though I had some trouble with the video card at first... installed envy, and that was it.

I'm gonna report one thing though, when I suspend, it cocmes back from that pretty well.... but when I do it again, when I come back from it, it won't work at all, I get a blank screen, I think i'll post this as a thread on absolute beginner as well....

other than that, i'm satisfied with it...

---

