---
title: "7.10 rocks my laptop"
date: 2007-11-26
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Warpnow on 2007-11-26
Wowowowowowowowow.

I am on the live cd at the moment. I've always ran XP on my laptop because of compatability but...

My wireless works by DEFAULT! 

As does compiz...

As do the buttons on the front...

If I can backup my files alright I think I'll be running an ubuntu laptop for the first time.

Can someone give me the shortcut for the rotating cube effect?

---

### Post by Nano Geek on 2007-11-26
I'm glad that you're having a good time with Ubuntu.
The cube should be CTRL+ALT+Left-Click

---

### Post by Warpnow on 2007-11-26
I found a page that said that but it doesn't work. Is it possible its off by default?

It only gives me the options none, normal or extra...is there a more advanced configuration menu somewhere?

---

### Post by -grubby on 2007-11-26
open up a terminal apps>accessories>terminal and type this in:

```
sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager
``` 
then, after it installs go to, system>preferances>advanced desktop effect settings and go to general options and then tab to desktop size and change the horizontal virtual size to 4

---

### Post by Crashmaxx on 2007-11-26
> **Warpnow said:**
> I found a page that said that but it doesn't work. Is it possible its off by default?

It only gives me the options none, normal or extra...is there a more advanced configuration menu somewhere?

Yeah, just make sure you have the extra repos enabled and do this:
```

sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager

```

Then you will also have a "Custom" option.

---

### Post by alwiap on 2007-11-26
glad to hear it, here is a great link for customizing (and installing if you go back one page) compiz-fusion

[http://forlong.blogage.de/article/2007/8/29/How-to-set-up-Compiz-Fusion](http://forlong.blogage.de/article/2007/8/29/How-to-set-up-Compiz-Fusion)

i also have had a lot of success with my elderly compaq r3000 laptop with ubuntu rather than xubuntu and kubuntu (which I both tried for months), I have no idea why, but ubuntu runs a lot better.  :)

---

### Post by ericesque on 2007-11-27
I'll second the OP's comment.  In Gusty things just worked for my notebook on the live cd.  I was impressed.  Feisty wouldn't even install.  Edgy was a wifi nightmare.

I'm just hoping that when I have that notebook replaced on warranty soon things go as smoothly with the new one.

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2007-11-27
Shifted to Testimonials and Experiences.

---

