---
title: "9.10: 5 days in - scientific user"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Warthaug on 2009-11-03
I upgraded to ubuntu 9.10 on the day it was released.  5 days later I've got a bit of a review.  This is coming from someone who works in the sciences, and whose main use is scientific computing (image processing, matlab, presentations, etc).

Install is on a dell xps M1330 laptop, an I installed the 64bit version.

Install was a breeze, and pleasantly fast.  The time from when the last of the user input was needed until I had a working OS was less than the time it took to run across the street for a coffee.  No problems arose during install.

The first startup was also impressive - much faster than before.  In fact, the whole system feels a little faster and responsive than it did in 9.04, although I have no specific benchmarks to prove that.  I'm still not a new fan of the colours used, but I found keeping the human theme, but changing the background to something black and white, made for a nicer-looking interface.

For me the biggest improvement was the new intel support.  I used to have all kinds of ghastly video problems that prevented me from using some protein-modelling tools.  This all works now; reducing my need for windoze even further.

So far my only ubuntu issues - and they are minor ones - is that the date/time seems to have lost the ability to show the weather, even though it is configured to do so.  I also found the repositories to be slow, although I suspect that is due to the massive amount of use they're probably seeing at the moment.  Lastly, I'm not a fan of the software centre, although I use synaptic almost exclusively, and my complaint has more to do with me being opposed to unnecessary eye candy, rather than any legitimate complaint...

In terms of real computing - matlab in particular - things seem about normal.  Very stable (which is good, since our matlab scripts take hours to execute making crashes a real bitch), and our benchmarking scripts show that I've randomly picked up about 2% more computing power compared to 9.04.

As per usual - and this is a linux thing, not a ubuntu thing - there is a few programs I still need windoze for (powerpoint, adobe acrobat professional/illustrator/premiere and a handful of bioinformatics programs).  But instead of going my usual route of dual-booting, I've instead virtualized XP.  And I'm kicking myself for not doing that earlier - I'm not sure how this worked out this way, but XP actually boots faster in vbox than it ever did as a separate OS.

Overall I am very happy with 9.10.  Many of the past "versions" of ubuntu felt like minor updates.  This time I am seeing significant - and almost entirely positive - changes.

Bryan

---

### Post by jdrodrig on 2009-11-03
> **Warthaug said:**
> 

In terms of real computing - matlab in particular - things seem about normal.  Very stable (which is good, since our matlab scripts take hours to execute making crashes a real bitch), and our benchmarking scripts show that I've randomly picked up about 2% more computing power compared to 9.04.

As per usual - and this is a linux thing, not a ubuntu thing - there is a few programs I still need windoze for (powerpoint, adobe acrobat professional/illustrator/premiere and a handful of bioinformatics programs).  But instead of going my usual route of dual-booting, I've instead virtualized XP.  And I'm kicking myself for not doing that earlier - I'm not sure how this worked out this way, but XP actually boots faster in vbox than it ever did as a separate OS.

Bryan

Being a linux users for scientific purposes also I cannot agree with you more.

I am interested in your 2% increase performance finding; do you have any theories behind it? could it be a combination of the intel grahics support in the sense that the better assignments of graphical tasks is given to the GPU instead of the CPU?

Stability and some windows software are also crucial to me; what I ended up doing was to leave a box running with only terminal interface, no graphics and I use an older laptop to do all the Windows stuff; I am proud of my 40+ days in a row without a reboot, basically since the day I installed the OS on that machine.

Something that I also find great is the native "ssh -X" use in linux; I can connect to my work's server and run matlab GUI if necessary without any other piece of software.
D.

---

### Post by Warthaug on 2009-11-03
I have no idea where that extra 2% came from, but my test script took 4074.1 seconds to run in 9.04 and 3991.2 seconds in 9.10.  That said, a 2% improvement doesn't mean much; a measly 83 seconds on a 1hr, 8min process.

Your guess of better intel support may be it; I'll know more tomorrow as we're upgrading our matlab server to 9.10 and will run benchmarks on it.  It doesn't have intel anything, so if its better intel support than we shouldn't see anything different.

My main wish is that open office impress will reach a level equivelent to power point.  PP is the one M$ office product that open office cannot yet beat, and that deficiency prevents me from doing away with M$ office all togeather...

Bryan

---

### Post by solitaire on 2009-11-03
I also lost the Weather info after an update, but all i needed to do was remove my home location and re-enter it. then it showed up fine. (I've also got 4 other location that I keep track of and they have been fine).

---

### Post by Warthaug on 2009-11-03
> **solitaire said:**
> I also lost the Weather info after an update, but all i needed to do was remove my home location and re-enter it. then it showed up fine. (I've also got 4 other location that I keep track of and they have been fine).

That did it.  After re-entering it a "set" button magically appeared beside my home location.  Clicking "set" brought up the weather!

thanx

Bryan

---

### Post by Warthaug on 2009-11-04
So the extra 2% probably isn't an intel thing, we saw a speed boost of ~1.5% on our server and its AMD based...

Bryan

---

