---
title: "11.04 Rant...."
date: 2011-05-05
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by buster2209 on 2011-05-05
Yes, I know, by choosing to use Unity or Gnome3 you are an alpha tester and you have the associated problems but I need to vent....

Unity feels so damn clunky and slow on my machine and with the stupid 'idiot casual user' feel it drove me nuts after a few hours so I installed Gnome3.

After several days of Gnome3 trying really, really, *really* hard to like it I just can't....

I miss my applets, I miss customising, but mostly, I just can't get work done fast enough using the stupid new interface.  Having to move the mouse to the top left or pressing the super key is so darn long winded.  

The new place where the tray icons goes is awful.

I know may of these bugs may be ironed out over the coming months but it's just so darn frustrating!

I thought for sure one of these new UIs would pull ahead of the other but they are just so incomplete that using them beyond the 'ohh, this is new phase' is just not possible.

I feel so disappointed and deflated.  It's hard to tout the merits of Ubuntu over Windows now.

I use Windows 7 at work and (as much as I hate to say it), it's efficient at getting work done.

I don't want a UI that's designed for a touchscreen or the casual user, I want a mature UI that gets work done.

I'm going to try KDE.  Screw Unity and Gnome3.

Ok, rant off.  I feel a lil better now.... :)

---

### Post by Elfy on 2011-05-05
Moved out of support forum.

---

### Post by bowens44 on 2011-05-05
I haven't used Gnome 3 but as far as Unity is concerned, I agree completely. It's like it was designed for the computer illiterate or very young children. What's with the GIANT icons? What's with the global menus? Talk about a ridiculous feature. 

I also hate the fact that Ubuntu seems to be doing everything it can to ensure that only minimal customization is possible.

Unity is a HUGE step backwards from gnome 2 or even kde 4.

I think unity will drive away more users then it will attract.

---

### Post by Seq on 2011-05-05
> **buster2209 said:**
> After several days of Gnome3 trying really, really, *really* hard to like it I just can't....

I miss my applets, I miss customising, but mostly, I just can't get work done fast enough using the stupid new interface.  Having to move the mouse to the top left or pressing the super key is so darn long winded.

Fallback mode for Gnome 3 uses gnome panel. You can add your applets just like before. Layout has also been improved (left/centre/right vs absolute positions).

[How to enable fallback mode]("http://www.linuxpromagazine.com/Online/Blogs/Off-the-Beat-Bruce-Byfield-s-Blog/GNOME-3-and-Its-Fallback-Desktop")

---

### Post by buster2209 on 2011-05-05
> **Seq said:**
> Fallback mode for Gnome 3 uses gnome panel. You can add your applets just like before. Layout has also been improved (left/centre/right vs absolute positions).

Yeah, I like that but it's not a permanent solution...

I tried KDE and whilst it's puuuurdy, it's a lil too busy for my tastes.

Going to give Xubuntu a whirl....

I feel like such a traitor..... :(

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-05-05
Thanks for sharing.

---

### Post by BertN45 on 2011-05-05
> **buster2209 said:**
> 
I don't want a UI that's designed for a touchscreen or the casual user, I want a mature UI that gets work done.


Stop resenting change. In a couple of years you will be using a touchscreen too.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2011-05-05
> **buster2209 said:**
> Yeah, I like that but it's not a permanent solution...

I tried KDE and whilst it's puuuurdy, it's a lil too busy for my tastes.

Going to give Xubuntu a whirl....

I feel like such a traitor..... :(

I've gone with Xfce for now also (although I'm running Crunchbang for the speed boost). It works very well, and it feels like a streamlined, hyper-efficient version of Gnome 2. Nonetheless I'll probably switch to Gnome 3 once that's available in the Debian sid repos, since I kind of like the simplicity of that interface and it's becoming more and more customizable as extensions are created for it.

---

### Post by ozzyprv on 2011-05-05
> **BertN45 said:**
> Stop resenting change. In a couple of years you will be using a touchscreen too.

It is not about resenting change. It is about a backward change.

Fully agree with buster2209. I do use touchscreens (Motorola Xoom), and it does not have to be SLOW and look and feel childish.

---

### Post by Seq on 2011-05-05
> **buster2209 said:**
> Yeah, I like that but it's not a permanent solution...

Why? gnome-panel and all the bits you think of as part of "gnome 2" are still part of gnome 3, and they've been updated accordingly (gtk3, etc).

> **buster2209 said:**
> Going to give Xubuntu a whirl....

I feel like such a traitor..... :(

No need to. Use what you like.

---

### Post by buster2209 on 2011-05-05
> **ozzyprv said:**
> [QUOTE=BertN45;10773396]Stop resenting change. In a couple of years you will be using a touchscreen too

It is not about resenting change. It is about a backward change.

Fully agree with buster2209. I do use touchscreens (Motorola Xoom), and it does not have to be SLOW and look and feel childish.[/QUOTE]

Because I express my disappointment with something doesn't mean I am some type of neanderthal.

I am *disappointed* in both Gnome3 and Unity as they feel incomplete and I don't feel they are targeted towards the core base of Ubuntu users.

I'm hoping in time they will get better but that depends on whether Canonical and the Gnome development team implement people's feedback.

---

### Post by lenkite on 2011-05-05
At OP - I whole heartedly agree with you. Thanks for your rant since I don't have to make one now!

Unity is quite frankly an absolute disaster. And even 'simple' users hate it. Gnome 3 is better but still is rather strange and somewhat buggy :mad: 

I really want to use 11.04 and that leaves me with KDE or Xubuntu (which I have never tried). Kubuntu 11.04 with KDE 4.6.2 is simply terrific, appears to be stable for my use so far and doesn't make me go crazy like the way Unity and Gnome 3 do. After one and half-weeks of installing distros, I think I have now made up my mind - Kubuntu and KDE FTW :guitar:

---

### Post by buster2209 on 2011-05-05
I figure once Unity and Gnome3 have a chance to mature (i.e customisation!), they have a chance at being real UIs.

Until then, I tried the Xubuntu wubi install and I like it.  It's similar to Gnome2 but has some nice features that Gnome2 never had.

I will still be eagerly awaiting 11.10 to see how the other 2 UIs have matured.

I'm also expecting a GUbuntu package if Canonical sticks with Unity.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-05-05
> **wolfen69 said:**
> Thanks for sharing.

I share these sort of feelings.;)

---

### Post by buster2209 on 2011-05-05
> **wilee-nilee said:**
> I share these sort of feelings.;)

Thanks for reading.... ;)

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-05-05
Why not just choose the "Classic" desktop when you login? Then you can have 11.04 and the standard gnome desktop. Or 10.04/10.10 still work.

I have heard that classic won't be offered for 11.10 (but then that is a long way away so who knows!?). Personally I hated unity at first, but now whenever I go back to 'Classic' I find it clunky. But the point is, just choose what you like.

---

### Post by kreggz on 2011-05-05
Also I love the way they put System Settings below Shutdown so that every time I shutdown my machine now I open System Settings /sarcasm!!

I still love Ubuntu but Natty is putting a strain on our relationship.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-05-06
> **buster2209 said:**
> I tried KDE and whilst it's puuuurdy, it's a lil too busy for my tastes.

 
what do you mean? If you switch to classic KDE menu style it looks almost exactly like windows. i am comparing it to windows since you said windows for your get's the work done. it even has a "control panel alternative". For example like this:
 
[IMG]http://genek.net/LinuxAdventures/installsetup/4_6/kde_2.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by Ad@m on 2011-05-06
> **lenkite said:**
> at op - i whole heartedly agree with you. Thanks for your rant since i don't have to make one now!

Unity is quite frankly an absolute disaster. And even 'simple' users hate it. Gnome 3 is better but still is rather strange and somewhat buggy :mad: 


+1

---

### Post by tekkidd on 2011-05-06
> **bowens44 said:**
> I haven't used Gnome 3 but as far as Unity is concerned, I agree completely. It's like it was designed for the computer illiterate or very young children. What's with the GIANT icons? What's with the global menus? Talk about a ridiculous feature. 

I also hate the fact that Ubuntu seems to be doing everything it can to ensure that only minimal customization is possible.

Unity is a HUGE step backwards from gnome 2 or even kde 4.

I think unity will drive away more users then it will attract.

While I do agree with you 100% for out of the box unity. Taking some time and modifying it to ones liking can make a world of difference. When I first started using it, I hated the oversized icons, the global menu applet, and the partial support for overlay scrollbars. However, with some tweaking, unity can be pretty good.

---

### Post by CampbellBoyd on 2011-05-06
Gosh, even as one of "simple" users, I really like Unity. I have to use 2.0 on my desktop (old graphics card) but the kids' laptop has 3.0. I like the small but noticeable increase in usable screen space whilst retaining easy access to everything that is going on.

I guess this is probably the wrong thread for this!

---

### Post by fballem on 2011-05-06
> **CampbellBoyd said:**
> Gosh, even as one of "simple" users, I really like Unity. I have to use 2.0 on my desktop (old graphics card) but the kids' laptop has 3.0. I like the small but noticeable increase in usable screen space whilst retaining easy access to everything that is going on.

I guess this is probably the wrong thread for this!

No, this is the perfect thread for this. Everyone's experience and impressions are different. In my case, the only tweak I've done to unity is to use compiz settings manager to reduce the size of the icons - they are way too big.

I'm hoping that customisation, including adding new applications, will become a whole lot simpler in future releases. I haven't tried Gnome 3 yet - I'll wait until it is farther along.

On the whole though, I haven't found any compelling reasons to not use Unity, and some things I actually like! But there are a whole lot of other people who do not feel the same way!

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2011-05-06
> **fballem said:**
> No, this is the perfect thread for this.

+1

Everyone's opinions and impressions are valid here, not just Unity lovers' or haters'. Glad you're liking it. It's not for me and I think it was a mistake to even build it, but I'm well aware that my opinion is just that.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2011-05-06
It's a stable ,free , fun operating system(natty) and I am really getting to like Unity. Unity is fun! Thats the thing  that those who don't like it can't see.  I just have to think of  Natty's predecessors, Lucid and Maveric .. etc... I'm still running Lucid from pendrives that people told me would burn out months ago ...I've taken every major update, and stil .. no pipes busted .. and I don't get that anxiety feeling like I have to "knock on wood" after each update.
  I think what really has people peeved off about Unity is that they may have to spend .000000001 of 1% of their brain power to perhaps learn how to use it !

---

