---
title: "11.xx (Versus 9.10) - My Opinions and Experience"
date: 2011-07-05
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by 64bitguy on 2011-07-05
Hi Everyone

First, I should begin by saying that my first "Workstation" experience with Ubuntu was 9.10.  I've been running various Linux builds for File Server/Hosting/Email for over 10 years without a hitch anywhere (unlike my stressful, outage-filled existences for 20 years in the MS World).  As an Open-Source Application Developer, Linux was the obvious choice for me.

Generically, Ubuntu (and other Linux constructs) have always represented the ideals in constantly evolving an always faster, more secure and more stable, open-source computing environment.  The overlay choices in terms of desktop environments were many (common) and consistently evolving as well.  If you wanted KDE or Gnome, it was there under Ubuntu.  Netbook solutions differed from Workstation and Laptop solutions (as they should).

This brings me to the latest release(s).  I had already read quite a bit about Unity; but didn't know _**really**_ what to expect in terms of personally using it from day-to-day.  After about 45-days now, what strikes me as strange (again, from a user perspective) is exactly how much seems to be missing (in terms of little things) and how much effort goes into me finding what I want and making the experience the way "I" find most useful.  In 9.10 this meant a few tweaks, in 11.xx it is considerably more (and more frustrating).

I really found the "Experience" of Gnome (in 9.10) to be quite, "Windows Like" or if you hate that description, "predictable" in being able to quickly find, run, load, export, save or otherwise manipulate what I wanted; should that be either settings, applications or data.  I also found that customizing the experience, fixing issues and updating everything was effortless as well.  

In terms of 11.xx, I feel that finding everything is much harder and I have less flexibility to adjust settings while I have also lost the ability to have things show up on my desktop (where I like to have them).   I couldn't get Unity to be 3d on any of my laptops, nor is using multiple desktops (now) as effortless.  I find that things often don't go where I want them and changing (to the correct) desktops requires more effort.  My systems run significantly (quite noticeably) slower as well which seems to fly in the face of Linux convention (always improving speed).  As for the moving scroll-bar, while everyone else might like it; wow.. I really hate it!  It has given me kittens far too many times!  The fact that I cannot go to the upper-left (or even left side) of any of my application windows without the Unity launcher popping up also bugs the hell out of me. 

The "Issues" that remain for me at this point with 11.xx revolve around not having any power management controls in my system tray (I have a couple of laptops with battery/power supply issues and I need to keep an eye on the charging status).  I have tried some of the add-ons to fix this, none of them work.  The _**new**_ "Disable Touchpad" functions also don't work at all for me (they also won't come up in the system tray) so I have gone back to using gpointing-device-settings to address/fix that issue.  Frankly I _**feel**_ like I have lost much of the "tweaking" controls that I had under 9.10.  I have also been unable to add Windows Network Shared printers (not LAN printers; but rather Workstation attached printers setup for sharing).  In 9.10, the OS actually automatically found every kind or type of printer I ever attached ANYWHERE (LAN, Local, Shared), in 11.xx I have been unable to add non-local printers no matter what I do.  This "feels" like a giant step backwards.  .PDF manipulation seems like it requires more effort as well since the migration to LibreOffice.  

Next, I had a ton of applications installed under 9.10 and after the "upgrade" to 11.04, those were all gone, forcing re-installation.  Then AFTER installing them (the ones I could find and run), I am finding that Unity never lets me locate them from the application launcher.  If I haven't said this already, I really dislike the Unity Shell and application launcher.  More than anything else, I feel like Unity is trying to copy/replicate/imitate W7 and to be frank, I don't care for it (or that desire) in the least. 

In terms of LibreOffice, I'm not sure yet how I feel.  I have (up to this point) been satisfied with OpenOffice and frankly had grown accustomed to utilizing it.  With LibreOffice, I feel like I have to start over and learn new basic Office Suite applications from scratch.  Also, I found that OpenOffice could read and "save as" every type of file I could imagine without any problems; however, LibreOffice does not and let's be honest here, I might be a Linux guy; but not everyone out there is and I really need MS and Adobe file saving compatibility.  I should mention that "Export" is not the same as "Save As", I would really like to see those controls built-in, sharing a common "methodology" as is the case with OpenOffice.  

I've always thought that these "Applications" should be at the discretion of the User versus at the discretion of the OS Provider (Doesn't this argument sound familiar?).  I realize that I can go back and re-install OpenOffice, I just thought I would comment on how much default applications have changed the face/appearance of the entire solution.  I would hate to see any "application" hurt the reputation of the OS that it resides on.

Finally, I would comment that as someone in IT for over 30-years, I have no love (or love-loss) for MS.  I feel that _**ANY**_ solution is better than one provided from Redmond, WA, not for what it costs; but regarding where they are going as a company and the path they take USERS to get there.  I would hate for Ubuntu developers to start doing things that are not in the best interests of the USER community; but rather to have decisions made by a select number of developers that (from a User perspective) are counter-productive to the end-result (having more people use it, to make it more stable and user friendly, etc...).  In this regard, I think 9.10 was a superior product; however, I believe that 11.xx (either version) is less so.  

I believe that Unity needs to evolve more before being put into a production OS build as the default and with that said, I think it might be more appropriate for a Netbook than a Notebook and as such, the option to use Gnome 2.x should have been left as an option.  In this regard, Linux Mint 11 looks somewhat appealing; though the thought of changing from Ubuntu leaves a bad taste in my mouth.  I would REALLY like to see Ubuntu build a version that relies on Gnome 2.x until either Unity or Gnome 3.x are production ready and "tweaked"/matured enough to provide users with features that we desire.  I have tried using Gnome 3.x with 11.10; however, I should mention that doing so is just a joke as you can't actually get rid of Unity in the process.

Thus, with all of this said I guess I feel that it is time to leave Ubuntu in favor of a "Workstation" build that will make me more productive and effective as a user.  I feel that Unity has dramatically impacted the OS to a level that frankly, I just don't want to deal with.  While I have historically loved Ubuntu (and the user community), I feel that the changes implemented and the future directions are contrary to my desires _**as a user**_ and frankly, isn't that what this is all about?  I'm sure the "elitists" out there love Unity; I guess I'm just not that far up the totem pole, nor can I figure out **[COLOR=Red]what exactly Unity is intended to give me that I didn't already have under Gnome 2.x in Karmic Koala[/COLOR]**.  **Was change necessary as a self-fulfilling prophecy, just for "change" sake?**  

In closing, I wanted to make a few comments about Laptop/Hardware Manufacturers and specifically their relationship with Ubuntu/Linux.  First and foremost, Dell.  I recently called Dell and told them that I was interested in purchasing a few new Laptops; but I did not want any MS Operating System loaded on them as I would be running Ubuntu.  Dell customer service _**AND**_ Dell Sales _**BOTH**_ told me that they make absolutely no computers for _**ANY**_ version of Linux and that all computers must include Windows.  (If you don't believe me, call for yourself!).  This flies in the face of both the American Courts decisions regarding Microsoft being a Monopoly (as these guys all said that no such exclusivity relationships existed) as well as the so-called Dell relationship with Ubuntu.  [COLOR=Red]_**Why is Ubuntu promoting Dell as having Linux solutions when Dell themselves claims otherwise?**_[/COLOR]   Ubuntu should hold Dell's feet to the fire on this and should definitely STOP promoting Dell.  HP doesn't do much either; but at least they acknowledge Linux as an OS and have a [compatibility matrix]("http://h71028.www7.hp.com/enterprise/cache/569891-0-0-0-121.html").  If Linux is truly the future, developers should begin to reach out more to Hardware manufacturers and identify those OEMs that are not on the bandwagon.  Let's face it, the only way to make them get on board is to begin by impacting their sales.  I won't buy a Dell not because they don't build a system that is "compatible" with Linux (which I know otherwise); but because they force consumers to pay hundreds of dollars extra for a MS OS product that I (nor the rest of us Linux users) want.  Because of this, I (and others) should refuse to do business with them.

Those that choose MS exclusively should be identified as such in writing here (and on other Linux distributions sites).  Sure, support Linux onto them; but identify the OEM as what they are.  Next, OEMs that choose to support Linux inclusion directly, should be rewarded on these Linux distribution sites by being identified as such.  In other words, reward the good guys in writing as being such and punish the liars/deceivers/MS only vendors in the same manner... but that's just my two cents.

I hope you find this post useful, it is meant as constructive criticism ONLY.  I hope you will join me in sharing your opinions and suggestions without shooting the messenger.

---

### Post by FormatSeize on 2011-07-05
Good post. 
 
I agree that Unity isn't really the "Workstation" that 9.10 was. Had you said all this stuff when I first started using 9.10, I wouldn't know where you were coming from when you talk about this because back then the only work to do on a computer was the same sorts of things that I would do while on a computer at work. Over the years, and having learned a lot more, I'm still with the LTS when it comes to Ubuntu. It just works. I know where everything is, there's no seeking out things that I want to do, and so on, and so forth.
 
My machine would not run Unity. The hardware simply would not support it. What I ended up doing was going to get a (very cheap) machine that would. So I found something with 2 Gigs of RAM and Nvidia onboard graphics for under $300, and it worked. But after toying around with Unity, and then finding that while I have the hardware to support it, I still found myself using Gnome Classic. That said a lot to me about Unity. It's not for me, or people like me.
 
There's nothing wrong with Unity. I have nothing bad to say about it. But, it's one of those "to each his/her own" scenarios.
 
As for the thing about Dell not mentioning having support for anything named Linux, that is surprising. I'll assume that you have no reason to make that up, and it's rather a punch in the gut. I'm not going to call Dell, and I never will call Dell, being that I plan on building my computers from now on. But it seemed like it was some sort of big deal with Dell and Ubuntu. Not sure why they didn't mention it to the guys at the call center. 
 
And why is it that, if I come to them with my money, and proceed to ask them to build me a computer, why can I have it any way I want except it must have Windows on it? Just sell me the damn hardware or I'm going to tigerdirect.com. Some sort of contract thing, I guess.

---

### Post by freebeer on 2011-07-05
> **64bitguy said:**
> HP doesn't do much either; but at least they acknowledge Linux as an OS and have a [compatibility matrix]("http://h71028.www7.hp.com/enterprise/cache/569891-0-0-0-121.html").  If Linux is truly the future, developers should begin to reach out more to Hardware manufacturers and identify those OEMs that are not on the bandwagon. 

Have you seen [this list]("http://www.ubuntu.com/certification")?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-07-06
You feel you have to learn a whole new office suite? Ubuntu has shipped with Libreoffice for the past few years - it's just that back then it was known as the Go-OO branch of Openoffice.org. All it has done is changed name, really. I haven't noticed any operational differences between Go-OO and Libreoffice.

Battery indicator not appearing and "no third party ones work" - bug, not design. The battery indicator works on Unity on my netbook so you've observed a bug and you should report it.

Unity is a young project yet and any rough spots will be polished up. However, the old Gnome Panel with its applets and "notification area" was getting to be a real mess, and annoying bugs such as "Resolution change causes applets to go into a random order" had been in there for years without a fix. It was time to kill Gnome 2.

Unity gives you a maintained desktop environment, rather than Gnome 2 abandonware. It's not as customisable as Gnome 2 was, but it brings consistency and some modern features to Linux. I find it ridiculous that some people claim it's "too much like Windows 7" and other people say it's "too much like Mac" - as you can guess by both of those statements, it's not much like either!

It's not "Unity or the highway". You can run KDE, LXDE, XFCE or even the normal preinstalled Gnome 2 on Ubuntu 11.04. In Ubuntu 11.10 you'll lose classic Gnome 2, but you'll gain Gnome 3 as a choice. And I'd highly urge you to jump in with Ubuntu 11.10 soon, probably from Alpha 3, so you can help with the bug-spotting effort.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-07-06
Gnome was never ment for tweaking with GUI. GUI in Gnome strives to be simple with as little choices as possible. This i very good for newcommers as it doens't overwhelm them. Ont he other hand it also offers the experienced users behind the scene tweaking abilities. Since unity is new these abilities are not so evolved. tools have yet to come out.
 
you say ur an IT professional - i wonder why 11.04? why not 10.04? especialy since you like the old Gnome.
 
Oh and Unity is on top of Gnome 2, it will also be on top of Gnome 3, while other will likely use Gnome shell. i am curious what Debian will use. for now they still have Gnome 2. 
 
The switch to Gnome 3 is neede as gnome 2 is becoming hard ot maintain. and gnome shell (as some report) is even worse than Unity.
 
since i like to be able to tweak a bit and i like to do this via GUI i chose KDE. However XFCE also seems like a good Gnome alternative for those that liked the Gnome2 look and feel. I use Gnome and XFCE on older mashcine running the LTS. 10.04 is great edition. stable, low ram consumption... the only issue i had with it on the newer computer was sound, upgrade to 10.10 solved that and since i was upgrading i also changed the DE to KDE.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2011-07-06
> mastablasta
The switch to Gnome 3 is neede as gnome 2 is becoming hard to maintain.  and gnome shell (as some report) is even worse than Unity.

I'm not arguing with your assessment. As a matter of fact, I agree with  much of it. However, where did you acquire the information regarding the "hard to maintain" issue (Gnome2)? What aspect of G2 is so hard to  maintain and by whom? Seriously, my ignorance is showing. ;)

With the present instability of G3, why replace G2 now? Why not wait  until the G3 issues are resolved, before switching? The concept of  releasing Unity and G3 at the same time seems questionable and "my belief" is that it may be contract related.

As I indicated, I'm not arguing just wondering where you acquired said  data. It's not critical to  me, as I'm also switching to Xubuntu. Just not in a hurry, as 10.04 (which is being maintained - updated today) is  supported until 2013. Which is illogical if G2 is so hard to maintain. I seriously doubt that Canonical would release an LTS knowing that G2 would be hard to support. It would indicate a lack of insight, related to maintaining the LTS.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-07-07
> **Tamlynmac said:**
> I'm not arguing with your assessment. As a matter of fact, I agree with much of it. However, where did you acquire the information regarding the "hard to maintain" issue (Gnome2)? What aspect of G2 is so hard to maintain and by whom? Seriously, my ignorance is showing. ;)

 
Gnome team as well as i read a blog of some developers. Ugh wish i knew the link. But the idea is that some libraries are obsolete and have to be changed anyway. Linux kernel, applications and all is constantly changing. so some stuff has to be changed so much and has aquired so much bloat that it is easier to rewrite it than to keep fixing old things. i too don't know too much about this, but i guess windows also doesn't have it's Win95 desktop environment interface anymore, or win3.11 windows manager anymore. things move forward... in linux a bit faster it seems.
 
 
> 
With the present instability of G3, why replace G2 now? Why not wait until the G3 issues are resolved, before switching? The concept of releasing Unity and G3 at the same time seems questionable and "my belief" is that it may be contract related.

 
Now that i don't know. I am not sure what is the rush and i am not sure there is a rush. Gnome2 at the moment is still supported but Gnome3 is activelly developed to replace it.It's been developed for a while and now it is stable enough to be release on some ditros. Debian and some others will stay on Gnome 2 for now but will also switch eventually.
> 
As I indicated, I'm not arguing just wondering where you acquired said data. It's not critical to me, as I'm also switching to Xubuntu. Just not in a hurry, as 10.04 (which is being maintained - updated today) is supported until 2013. Which is illogical if G2 is so hard to maintain. I seriously doubt that Canonical would release an LTS knowing that G2 would be hard to support. It would indicate a lack of insight, related to maintaining the LTS.
 
Well the LTS that comes out next year will have Gnome 3. 10.04 is supported until 2013. I don't think there will be any new features and major bug regarding gnome in 10.04 so the DE is not really super supported, but just enough to do bugfixes and all.
 
Gnome 3 doesn't look so much different than Gnome 2 though it has plenty of design changes. And i don't think it's really finished. but next year who knows....
 
interesting reads:
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNOME](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNOME)
 
[http://live.gnome.org/GNOME3Myths](http://live.gnome.org/GNOME3Myths)
 
[http://gnome3.org/faq.html](http://gnome3.org/faq.html)

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2011-07-07
> mastablasta

I appreciate your response. I do wish you could recall the devs blog. :wink:

If indeed the G2 libraries are becoming obsolete, then supporting 10.04  may become quite a task. I'm not concerned as to the change. As anyone  who's been around Ubuntu/Linux for a while, becomes accustom to that.  However, I don't see the logic of using G2 (for 10.04) if that knowledge  was available prior to the release. Not to mention releasing both Unity  & G3 at the same time. Unless there was an ulterior motive.

As I indicated, my interest is purely informational as my families  choice of our future OS - appears to be Xubuntu. Testing results have  been positive and I've been somewhat surprised at the families feedback.  One of our primary needs is stability and since first installing  Xubuntu, it's has remained extremely stable unlike 11.04 (we tested it  for >3 weeks). I refuse to expound on our 11.04 results here, as I  have no desire to engage in debating.

Thanks again for responding.
Mac

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-07-07
> **Tamlynmac said:**
>  
If indeed the G2 libraries are becoming obsolete, then supporting 10.04 may become quite a task. I'm not concerned as to the change. As anyone who's been around Ubuntu/Linux for a while, becomes accustom to that. However, I don't see the logic of using G2 (for 10.04) if that knowledge was available prior to the release. Not to mention releasing both Unity & G3 at the same time. Unless there was an ulterior motive.
 
not really i mean 10.04 will have old applications. problems could appear if you installed application version that uses Gnome3 libraries exclusively. as i understand backports will be there for some time. it makes sense to use Gnome 2 as Gnome 3 is not that stable yet. the LTS edition is also ment to be a bit more stables. 
 
But on the other hand your observations are quite corret. or as my brother said - "and what kind of support they offer in LTS? your sound doesn't work propperly!!! what kind of support is that?" - it should be noted here that LTS used older sound drivers than they were available and even Debian used the newer version (in which my sound works well). so yeah support here means some bug fixes and security patches but no more development and newer application version (unless they are patches). also no new driver verison (even if the yimprove performance) .for that you need to use PPA or manual install.
 
Also 11.04 still uses gnome 2. Next LTS (12.04) will be with Gnome3 and unity. All other Ubuntu releases unitl then - well i expect them to have a few issues.
 
Also good source of news is live interview with community manager Jono Bacon. I think he does it every week. i could be wrong though. i've only listen to it once when he got some quesitons abotu Unity explained. you can ask him and he replies LIVE :-)
 
> 
As I indicated, my interest is purely informational as my families choice of our future OS - appears to be Xubuntu. Testing results have been positive and I've been somewhat surprised at the families feedback. One of our primary needs is stability and since first installing Xubuntu, it's has remained extremely stable unlike 11.04 (we tested it for >3 weeks). I refuse to expound on our 11.04 results here, as I have no desire to engage in debating.

 
sure stability is the most important. and also that all hardware works. Xubuntu 11.04 is a good choice ( i only gave it a live try). i too liked the way Gnome was done before. but it seem it's all shifting from purely desktop experience to being multiplatform (tablets?!). As they state they want to provide somehting different. If oyu saw the demo video from Windows 8 - also looks like windows phone 7 or what is called. With big icons, but with a move you switch to classic widows desktop. the future is here, i am just not sure if we are ready for it.
 
i still find desktop way to be the most productive. i use KDE now. Unity looks nice but it's not my way.
 
Anyway for stability and uses friendliness at the same time a good option is Linux Mint version that is based on Debian only you set the repositories to debian stable. so you get user friendly OS with debian stability. ;)

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2011-07-07
> mastablasta
If oyu saw the demo video from Windows 8 - also looks like windows phone  7 or what is called. With big icons, but with a move you switch to  classic widows desktop. the future is here, i am just not sure if we are  ready for it.

Sad day when Ubuntu/Linux emulates Windows. I understand the tablet  motive, but disagree. However, Canonical did contract with a mfg. thus  it does make sense in a profitable market.

I'm not a fan of KDE or Mint. But, thats the beauty of Linux - there's  something for just about everyone. As for being ready for the future, I  guess it depends on what the future has to offer. IMHO choice should  remain the goal of the future, it always trumps no choice. The potential  to consolidate and reduce diversification in an effort to maximize  resources, make eventually impact even Linux.

The future is not written in stone and I seriously doubt that many can  actually predict. It's speculative at best as new technology is released  that obsoletes existing technology regularly. In the past software has  often dictated hardware, especially in industry. Industry used to be the  primary motivator of technology, now the shift is towards personalizing  said technology. Who knows what the future holds, not only for  technology - but the people who can afford to use it. Which is one  reason why I believe Linux/FOSS may become critical players in the  future of software/OS development.

Just my $0.02 & I will not debate in this section. Thanks again for  responding mastablasta. I will unsubscribe as I don't wish to hijack  this thread and apologize to the OP for the side track.

---

