---
title: "10.10 Maverick install experience"
date: 2010-11-04
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by SonicSteve on 2010-11-04
I've been using Ubuntu for 4 years now so I've learned a thing or two about setting up the systems. However, I've been using windows for 15 years, 20 if you include win 3.1

I setup separate home, swap, and root partitions, advantage of Ubuntu / Linux over a windows install.

Windows setup of formatting the disk and re-installing, 3 hours of work (or longer, have to make backup first; hours in itself)

Ubuntu setup of formatting root partition and leaving home partition intact. Installing all apps and finishing setup completely.

[COLOR=Red]**_[SIZE=4]1.5 hours![/SIZE]_**[/COLOR]

[COLOR=Black]Completely AWESOME! 
Perfect install no complications, very impressed, very happy.
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by ventrical on 2010-11-04
I did a 10.10 install on a Maxtor 30GB HDD through a USB to IDE converter  on an Acer Aspire 3620 in 45 minutes (minus the updates)!

---

### Post by SonicSteve on 2010-11-04
> **ventrical said:**
> I did a 10.10 install on a Maxtor 30GB HDD through a USB to IDE converter  on an Acer Aspire 3620 in 45 minutes (minus the updates)!

That's what I'm talking about! It's truly amazing. I've been installing from USB drives for a while now and it has to be the best way, no burning and wasting CD's next version comes out just install the next on the drive and off you go. I also use unetbootin, I have a few drives and I think they all have some bootable Linux on them. The world of proprietary doesn't like this because they can't control it. The open source world applauds.

---

### Post by ashakeandfrys on 2010-11-04
Those were my thoughts exactly! It's so nice to install an OS and have all of your settings intact, folders organized, etc. Not having to re-configure (most) apps is great. It should be an option in the installer to make a separate /home

---

### Post by ventrical on 2010-11-05
> **SonicSteve said:**
> That's what I'm talking about! It's truly amazing. I've been installing from USB drives for a while now and it has to be the best way, no burning and wasting CD's next version comes out just install the next on the drive and off you go. I also use unetbootin, I have a few drives and I think they all have some bootable Linux on them. The world of proprietary doesn't like this because they can't control it. The open source world applauds.

Thats right !!  Proprietary software developers no longer OWN our computers.!! I can now take the 'Developed for Microsoft Windows XP' and 'Product ID Key'  stickers off the side on my Dell Opti  GX270.

---

### Post by SonicSteve on 2010-11-05
> **ashakeandfrys said:**
>  It should be an option in the installer to make a separate /home

I'm sure someone has thought of this, though if they have I'm not sure why it hasn't happened. I can't even say that having the older config files migrate from version to version has caused me any trouble. I think it did back the 7.04 to 7.10 days but it has been a long while since anything abnormal has happened.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2010-11-05
PClinuxOS gives the option to do this during fresh install , but I am not sure how to do it in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by warjowuch on 2010-11-05
I have done this a few times, but that was not always without "trouble".

Like, installed applets, that where not there in the fresh instal, causing errors.
Also, with the move from 9.10 to 10.04, the panels did not look like I wanted them to, because of the old config. New applets where not there on the panel, because the old config was not overwritten.

But well, that is easily restored after finding out how all new applets are called... :)

---

### Post by SonicSteve on 2010-11-06
I should mention that our definitions of "trouble" will likely be different. It would probably depend on your level of experience and simply your expectations. 

Things that I encounter every time I fresh install a new version while keeping my existing home partition are;

1. I use AWN, it's missing and needs to be re-installed. 
2. Applications I place on the panel will be missing if they aren't Ubuntu install standards.
3. I do have one issue with vlc currently, It thinks that there is a dev/sr1 drive because there used to be. This must be in the home directory somewhere because even after a fresh install it thinks that old drive exists. 

I don't really consider any this "trouble".

---

