---
title: "1.5 Years with Linux (not only Ubuntu)"
date: 2008-07-24
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by kian.tern on 2008-07-24
Hi all, 
I want to tell a story of how I became a Linux user.
The title states 1.5 years, but actually it's a lot more.
It's just 1.5 years of using it as my main OS.

The year was 2000 and I stumbled on an article telling how cool is Linux. 
I didn't know what Linux was at the time, but curiosity drove me to try.
So I started searching the web. 
I was a bit confused by the multiple distributions, and for some reason decided to download the medium sized distro. 
Slackware 7.0.
Expecting something amazing I formatted the hard disk and booted into the CD.
I don't really know how I managed this, but with out any *nix knowledge, I installed and after 3-4 days managed to start X.
Yet I was disappointed. 
Operating system that takes so much time and work just to get to the GUI seemed pretty stupid.
So I switched back to Windows.
The curiosity never died and the following years I installed/removed different Linux distros. And each time loved it more and more.
1.5 years ago I decided to go and study. After some thinking and checking, I took RHCE (RedHat Certified Engineer) courses.
From that moment I installed Linux (Fedora) as my main system.
The course helped me a lot, and gave me the tools and enough knowledge to continue learning on my own.
About a year ago, I decided to give Ubuntu a try. I tried Debian before and loved it's speed.
After that, I guess there is no way back for me.
I still have Windows XP installed as my secondary system, mostly for games. But I don't really use it.
One interesting thing to point out, the moment I boot into XP I have an immediate urge to reboot back into Linux. 
One of the main reasons for this is (you might be surprised) my eyes start hurting after 20 minutes of Windows usage, and my head after one hour.
I don't have any eyes issues (I actually went to a doctor to check my sight).
Another strange thing is there is NO Windows version that can cleanly work with my hardware. 
Maybe it's drivers issues, but the only system that can actually work without hanging halfway through is Linux.
I don't hate Windows it's just it doesn't work very well, and I believe you will start noticing it after some period without it at all.
Currently I'm using Ubuntu 8.04 x64 and enjoy every moment. It's easy enough for non-technical people, 
and those with the technical knowledge can shape it to what ever they like.
I like the speed,it is pretty fast for a binary distro, not as fast as Debian though (pity).
And the last thing, I'm very thankful to Linux as with it discovered a hidden talent, I'm pretty good with programming languages. 
I learned Perl and starting to learn C++. 
If I was still a windows user I guess I'll be playing some stupid game instead.

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2008-07-24
Cool. Glad you're here.

---

### Post by scotcella on 2008-07-24
after months of exclusively using ubuntu on my dual booted laptop, I finally logged into vista the other day and I was getting huffy how long it was taking to load up and shut down..  unbelievable..

---

### Post by kspncr on 2008-07-25
> **scotcella said:**
> after months of exclusively using ubuntu on my dual booted laptop, I finally logged into vista the other day and I was getting huffy how long it was taking to load up and shut down..  unbelievable..

Exactly.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-07-25
> **kian.tern said:**
> 
One interesting thing to point out, the moment I boot into XP I have an immediate urge to reboot back into Linux. 


exactly how i feel. except i get to experience windows ALOT. not by choice, but that's what i do. i fix windows machines and manage to convert a few people along the way. i'm happy with that. great testimonial btw.

---

