---
title: "12.04 bites"
date: 2012-09-01
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by banjobuntu on 2012-09-01
Man, this ubuntu 12.04 business eats a whole stack of [use your imagination, but probably something generally burro-anatomy-related].

I went from 10.something to 12.04, and apparently have experienced a surgical multiple usability-ectomy.

They did away with my gnome, they did away with my virtual terminals, they did away with my focus-follows-mouse.
The window borders' resize grabby target area is like half a pixel wide.
This stupid launcher thing is glued to the left side of the screen.
I don't even have the words adequate to describe how little I like this "Dash" crap.

I disliked a couple things about Compiz, (mostly that it had some serious CPU overrun kind of trouble on my machine) but it was at least configurable.

JAYsus.  Who do these canonical guys think their users are?  Mac-using halfwits?  Why does my computer now look like a smartphone or something?  
So, what, ubuntu is now about form before function?


Apologies, one and all, but I had to get all that off my chest.  I think it's mostly the horror and shock of this godawful Unity retardedness, but, whatever the reason, I think I'm off to fux with some slackware.  Maybe I'll give Xubuntu a shot first.

Ya know what REALLY kills me?  It's my own damn stupid fault for not researching a bit before accepting the upgrade.  I knew it would change stuff, but WOW.   This is like if I upgraded my xbox or ps3 and turned it on afterward, and it had become a wii.


This blows.

---

### Post by tehcavil on 2012-09-01
> **banjobuntu said:**
> This is like if I upgraded my xbox or ps3 and turned it on afterward, and it had become a wii.

I loled irl.

> **banjobuntu said:**
> They did away with my gnome, they did away with my virtual terminals, they did away with my focus-follows-mouse.
The window borders' resize grabby target area is like half a pixel wide.
This stupid launcher thing is glued to the left side of the screen.
I don't even have the words adequate to describe how little I like this "Dash" crap.

I disliked a couple things about Compiz, (mostly that it had some  serious CPU overrun kind of trouble on my machine) but it was at least  configurable.

JAYsus.  Who do these canonical guys think their users are?  Mac-using  halfwits?  Why does my computer now look like a smartphone or something?   
So, what, ubuntu is now about form before function?


Apologies, one and all, but I had to get all that off my chest.  I think  it's mostly the horror and shock of this godawful Unity retardedness

I'm sorry Unity isn't 1337 enough for you.

> **banjobuntu said:**
> Maybe I'll give Xubuntu a shot first.

good idea, XFCE is the closest to gnome 2 you're gonna get in this day. Plus, xubuntu's implementation of xfce looks really nice, and it's highly customizable.

---

### Post by banjobuntu on 2012-09-01
Brother, can I just say, knowing I got a laugh with that wii comment (I was pretty proud of that one, TBH) did more than a little to improve my mood.

I thank you 

:-D

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-09-01
I think once you've gotten over the "this isn't what I was expecting" shock, you might be able to approach Unity with an open mind. I quite like Unity and it is winning people over with every release.

The window borders are silly, though. I'd agree with you there.

As always, the default desktop is not the only desktop. There's Gnome Classic installable from the repositories, which is a workalike of the Gnome 2 desktop, made using Gnome 3 tech. Research it before use as as couple of things are different.

Gnome 2 is dead, killed by it's own developers. Slackware may ship it for a while but eventually it wont work on Linux anymore. Time to get yourself acquainted with today's Linux desktop.

---

### Post by whatthefunk on 2012-09-02
Might want to give KDE a shot.  You can install the DE on your current Ubuntu release or do a fresh Kubuntu install.

---

### Post by acimi66 on 2012-09-02
I happen to like Wii...

---

### Post by whatthefunk on 2012-09-02
> **acimi66 said:**
> I happen to like Wii...

And so if you updated the software and it turned into a PS3 youd probably be pretty pissed off.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-09-02
> **banjobuntu said:**
> ...
Ya know what REALLY kills me?  It's my own damn stupid fault for not researching a bit before accepting the upgrade...
Spot on!
This whole Unity thing has been discussed to death for more than a year here, there, and everywhere. Plus, people have put up videos on what it looks like. So there's really no one to blame but ^^^ ;)
Anyway, all isn't lost ... the desktop of your choice is just a few clicks away. Of course, you may have to research a bit again ;)

---

### Post by Sirrob01 on 2012-09-02
Have to agree, my wife had been trialling 12.04 for the past 4-6 weeks in standard unity mode, she finally asked me to put windows on her laptop due to frustration and level of lock down (her words not mine and no she has no interest in learning terminal commands to get around) in ubuntu 12.04.

For myself it took me longer than it should to restore/downgrade(?) the laptop to gnome and some functionality still appears crippled or locked down but the wife can apparently live with that until I can find the appropriate fixes....

By comparison she happily used 10.04 for 12+ months with no complaint or lack of features or functionality and actually wished she could use Ubuntu at work.

She is a fairly normal user forced into using windows at work and has android on her phone, but has found Unity unbearable.

Anyways just thought I'd add her comments on unity from an end-user that ubuntu is(was?) aimed at from my understanding of the original project brief for the distro.

---

### Post by bouncingwilf on 2012-09-02
This rat has jumped ship and gone to Linux Mint cinnamon - it's 12.04 with a half decent UI - check it out 

Bouncingwilf

---

### Post by banjobuntu on 2012-09-02
Yeah, I guess I might try kde again.  I haven't been down that path in quite a while.  Never liked it, but it couldn't be much worse than this.  

I've seen a vid of some guy reviewing mint, and while I guess it looked pretty enough, it seemed like I'd like it just as much as this unity nonsense.  I'll give it another peek, though.

The window borders isn't "silly."  I think "broken" is a much more apt word.  Also broken are the virtual terminals.  Very disappointing to see so much usability removed from ubuntu.

Honestly, as annoying as the UI is, I think most of my problems with this are back-end.  For example, it seems that the 'shut down' command puts my machine in a hibernate or standby state.  Which wouldn't bother me all that much, if it did it right - the goddamn thing won't come back on line.  I must have spent ten minutes banging on the power button like some sort of angry drunken ape before I pulled the battery and power cord.  Plug it back in, and hit the power button, et voila!   I don't know, this laptop is pretty beat up, and has more than a couple obnoxious little hardware problems, but whatever change was done to the power-management stuff or the init scripts or whatever (I haven't gotten to looking under the hood at that just yet) just made stuff worse.


Yeah, sirrob, I want 10.whatever back!  Hah!  Is funny, 'cause this is some M$ BS.  "Upgrading" to an older version, like when I got a laptop that had Vista (wow, was THAT piece of crap ever awful!) on it, but I needed Winblows for whatever reason, so I "upgraded" to XP.

---

### Post by whatthefunk on 2012-09-02
KDE...dont know when the last time you used it was, but it has improved drastically in the last few releases.  It gives you a "traditional" desktop with a huge number of customization options. I love it.

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2012-09-02
also try zorin and solusos.  i switched to zorin when 11.04 came out. just installed solusos on my dell d800 to try it out.

---

### Post by exploder on 2012-09-02
I read the original post, how could you not know about Unity? I have had tremendous luck with new users and Unity. I was not crazy about Unity at first although I did think it was interesting. Unity has gotten better and better with each new release and I really enjoy using it now.

I have been reading about the refinements to Unity that will come in 12.10 and I think these guys are really going somewhere with this, it is really getting attention down to the smallest detail.

I understand that some people prefer a more traditional environment and there is nothing wrong with that. I think that for Canonical to get more users and more attention of oem's they are doing the right thing. People do not think of Unity as a free version of Windows and I think many love the elegance of the MacOS but could never afford a Mac. Ubuntu is becoming more elegant than the MacOS and it's free.

I installed Ubuntu 12.04 on a laptop for a woman that had a trashed Vista install and she loved it! My daughter uses a Macbook Pro for college and I let her use my computer when I went in for emergency eye surgery, she thought Unity was awesome and got all of her homework done using LibreOffice. 

I see positive things from Ubuntu going their own way and developing Unity. I just kept an open minded attitude about things and followed Unity's progress and am happy with how things are looking now.

---

### Post by banjobuntu on 2012-09-02
Heh, "smallest detail," my eye.  I dig that you're a fan, so, sorry, no offense, but I feel that you might be a touch biased.  It seems to me that things like resizing windows being obnoxiously difficult would not escape their notice.  Perhaps they ought to pay less attention to the smallest details, and a little more to more sizable ones, like the virtual terminals and other significant usability issues.

But, whatever.  I came here neither to argue, nor to be proselytized at.  The forum asks for my experience of ubuntu.  After installing 12.04, my experience of it is pretty damned unpleasant.  I felt annoyed and let down, and wanted to bitch about it.  'Bout all there is to it.  

I didn't come here looking for advice, either, but thanks for the suggestions, folks who offered them.   
 @funk - I will check it out.  The last I used KDE it was pretty much a windows95-wannabe, and I thought it blew.   This _was_ a long time ago, though.  
 @wolf - thanks.  I am not familiar with those.  Seems at a glance that they're kind of meant for the novice user, so they're probably not really my cup o' tea, but there's no harm in looking.

---

### Post by exploder on 2012-09-02
banjobuntu, I was not trying to argue either. Use what works best for you. I simply like it that Ubuntu is doing their own thing and coming up with original ideas.

---

### Post by banjobuntu on 2012-09-02
Oh, no, no, no, I didn't mean to imply that you were!  I was referring to my own response to your prior post.   You've got your opinion, friend, and I've got mine.  
Of course, mine is the correct one, but that's a whole different discussion, heh, heh ;)

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-09-02
> Ubuntu Testimonials & Experiences Here is your opportunity to tell other forum members about your experience of Ubuntu. **Please do not use this section for support questions, bug reports, or debate.**

*Thread **closed**.*


404

---

