---
title: "9.10 on a bleeding edge laptop. And the verdict is..."
date: 2009-11-03
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by phrizek on 2009-11-03
I recently purchased a new laptop (ASUS UL80vt) without any knowledge of ubuntu compatibility. It is one of those newfangled CULV laptops with crazy battery life. I was honestly not expecting ubuntu to run too well right off the bat on such new hardware, and had already mentally prepared myself to accept spending the majority of my time with Windows 7. 

So, I get the laptop the day 9.10 is released and download the 64-bit version. I burn the livecd and reboot...The desktop comes up and lo and behold practically EVERYTHING works right out of the box without issue. Screen resolution and compiz detected and enabled correctly. Wifi, sound, webcam, suspend, hibernate, the works. Everything needed for a fully functioning system, without having to tinker with it. I did have two minor issues, but they don't get in the way of everyday work. The first is that the laptop comes with switchable graphics which doesn't work, but that is not the fault of ubuntu but rather drivers/x. The second issue is that I can't dim my screen with the hotkeys, but I'm not bothered too much by it (and I'm sure it will be a trivial fix).

Overall I am extremely impressed by how 9.10 handled itself on new hardware. I had been running 9.10 since the alphas, and aside from some networking issues, it has been the best release of ubuntu I have experienced yet (and I've been a user since warty). The boot up speed is fantastic, the new features are great (I love all of the included artwork!), and it runs unbelievably quick. It's fantastic and I can't wait wait to see what the Lynx has in store.

---

### Post by henryfranz2005 on 2009-11-03
we all love Ubuntu. The glory of a full working box without drivers needed. :) I was also astounded as I installed ubuntu on my HP laptop and well, It worked without installing any drivers. Talk about windows. Hahaha! Although I also admit that I love Windows.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-03
> **henryfranz2005 said:**
> we all love Ubuntu. The glory of a full working box without drivers needed. :) I was also astounded as I installed ubuntu on my HP laptop and well, It worked without installing any drivers. Talk about windows. Hahaha! Although I also admit that I love Windows.

Shame shame shame! Just kidding. Use what you like, that is the glory in it all. If your system came with Windows and you don't wanna throw away what you paid for, then use it. :D

---

### Post by rahilm on 2009-11-04
Thats the thing with ubuntu...
Once I tried attaching my hard drive to my friends computer to boot from it..
Surprisingly, ubuntu booted without any issue.. what's more, it even detected the new hardware changes and adjusted the drivers accordingly, its like installing a new ubuntu in 30 seconds

---

### Post by Onesimus on 2009-11-04
> **phrizek said:**
> The second issue is that I can't dim my screen with the hotkeys, but I'm not bothered too much by it (and I'm sure it will be a trivial fix).


You could trying adding the brightness applet to the top panel.  Right click on top panel, select 'Add to Panel' choose brightness applet.

It worked for me, when the brightness keys didn't.

---

### Post by armandh on 2009-11-04
> **rahilm said:**
> Thats the thing with ubuntu...
Once I tried attaching my hard drive to my friends computer to boot from it..
Surprisingly, ubuntu booted without any issue.. what's more, it even detected the new hardware changes and adjusted the drivers accordingly, its like installing a new ubuntu in 30 seconds

Ubuntu is NOT windows
and has not booted up like windows since dos 5s and win 3s
[if then]

Ubuntu's portability comes from its complete hardware detection at each boot. 
wins PNP is a very dim bulb by comparison.

but one has to understand it is by design. 
if one could move ones OS simply there would be one less sale.

---

