---
title: "My Lubuntu 11.10 Review (Long)"
date: 2012-01-23
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by sardinekisses on 2012-01-23
My impressions of Lubuntu 11.10 LiveCD (Please add a clipboard manager!) 

Pros: 

1. I enjoy it, I like openbox! I like LXDE! 

2. LUBUNTU appears to be the BEST *buntu distribution yet! Good job and thank you! 

In my opinion, Kubuntu is a steaming pile of excess and always reminds me of Microsoft Windows, Xubuntu isn't as light and feel good as Lubuntu (my feelings), I hate the evil rodent in red choice in wallpaper (lol I had to mention it, why is THAT there? It smacks of illuminati business), Ubuntu's new desktop look and feel is HORRIBLE! Puke all over yourself with a fist down your throat horrible. Users should not have to figure out how to switch to an older version of Gnome, even with the abundant information @ ubuntuforums.org, help.ubuntu.com, and so forth. With the older version of Gnome chosen in using Ubuntu 11.10, I receive .gvfs ???? question mark errors and have to unmount it manually and restart and I see the same problem occur again and again. What is that all about? And I have to install a tweak tool to show system desktop icons on the desktop? Software Center without Synaptic? MADNESS! The Software Center in Ubuntu reminds me of Lindows' GUI package manager, gag me with a giant spoon! 

3. Thank you for retaining Synaptic 

4. Thank you for retaining nano, but can you ditch the vi(m) packages? 

5. Thank you for choosing Pcmanfm vs. Nautilus 

6. Thanks for choosing the Chromium browser (but does it have the correct codec package installed for Youtube HTML5 enabled playback?) re: [http://www.youtube.com/html5](http://www.youtube.com/html5) & see bottom of page for opt-in option, I haven't tried it with Lubuntu. 

7. Thanks for being light on the games section 

8. Great choices in Sound & Video 

9. Graphics section is fine, though could use a lightweight viewer (unless I missed it!) 

10. Accessories is good

===========================================

Cons: (not limited to Lubuntu, many *buntu distros bear the same or similar issues) 

*constructive ideas here, I'm not bashing, really!* 

1. Strange python errors during boot, decided to boot without acpi and selected only free software, still had errors, they flew by too quick to capture, didn't seem to affect performance but I wonder why they're there. I verified the checksum prior to burning the .iso and I verified the CD using the LiveCD Menu verification option. 

2. I notice, like with likely all *buntu distributions, there are extra modules such as ham radio modules generated in the /lib/modules/kv/kernel/net and /lib/modules/kv/kernel/drivers/net directories. These include but aren't limited to the following module directories: ../../../../net: appletalk, ax25, can, ipx, batman*, netrom, rose, x25 and also in ../../../../drivers/net: appletalk, can, hamradio. 

* - (not sure if it's ham/packet radio related, but wth is it for?) 

I don't feel ham/packet radio modules should be generated at all. These should only be generated by the tiny segment of ham/packet radio users. I've read of abuses of these drivers over wireless and ethernet, so they are a possible security/privacy violation waiting to happen behind the user's back. Don't kid yourselves, you don't *need* special ham hardware in order to abuse these modules. 

Apart from those modules, there appears to be a ton of other modules, many have no alias or description within them, what's with that? Unless a module can clearly be explained what have and what for, it shouldn't be included. A trim down here in the modules areas is suggested. 

3. GVFS - is it really required? I uninstalled all gvfs files and deleted the user's .gvfs directory, and my system hasn't been worse for wear, though lsof | grep gvfsd shows gvfsd processes with errors (since I nuked the other system wide gvfs directories). Is there a safe way to remove gvfs so no gvfs related process will run? 

4. Some type of cryptboot/cryptearly encrypted processes start at boot, located in /etc/init.d. Uninstalling all ecrypt related packages removed these crypt references in /etc/init.d, but why are they there? Why does a LiveCD need encryption to use for just LiveCD activity? What is being encrypted? And what did I lose by uninstalling said encrypt related programs? 

5. I notice pycompile and pyclean are installed, along with a lot of other development files and tools. This is a potential security nightmare, why include ANY build tools on a LiveCD? Let the user decide to install them later. 

6. NTP starting by default? Really? Why not simply call ntpdate at boot and if it's needed, through a cron job? 

7. ufw disabled by default? For shame! Why not start it, explain to the user it's started, with inbound blocking only, and/or a configuration wizard for the user to decide how to customize the firewall at boot? 

8. Give the option to ditch NetworkManager and nm-applet and allow the user to instead configure his/her network manually. 

9. Allow for a LiveCD run without root privvys, generate a limited user account and use that with sudo, but not system wide sudo enabled! 

10. Present the user with the option for static ARP configuration along with a firewall wizard as mentioned above. Static ARP can be added to /etc/network/if-up.d and a cron job for extra security 

11. Why load avahi-daemon at start? Give the user the option for loading this informing them what it is 

12. Why load cups at start? Give the user the option for loading this informing them what it is. 

13. If I remember correctly, there's some deb related daemon installed.. aptdaemon or similar, why? 

14. Why is the program RMT located in two separate locations under two different names? And, why is mt-gnu also located in two different locations under two different names? How many people use magnetic tape drives today? I view this as a possible security/privacy issue, especially in tandem with ham/packet radio drivers. 

15. Dump tools like screendump and others shouldn't be on a LiveCD. 

16. Rsync and other tools like SSH shouldn't be installed by default, give the user a wizard to walk through for these packages. 

17. A time zone wizard should be added at start for the user to decide whether they want their local time used, or the default option, and the default option to automatically update the time shouldn't be used for security/privacy issues (related to NTP/NTPd). 

18. Bluetooth drivers along with IRDA should be included in a start up wizard as not everyone needs one or both. 

19. Fix ssh-agent so when it is issued a killall command, and/or the package uninstalled, it doesn't sit there in a ps aux listing as: [ssh-agent]  until the LiveCD session is ended. 

20. Give the user through a wizard, a network config option, and remove the other junk they don't need. If they are a wired network user, remove all wireless modules, programs, and scripts. If they're static network users, ditch dhcp and any system backend scripts, the same for Wireless, ditch PPP. And if PPP, ditch all of the broadband related packages and scripts. 

21. Is unattended updates and update notifier really required on a LiveCD? 

22. Why are UFW related files located in so many areas of the CD? 

23. Why is sysctl.conf referenced in more than one place? (Yes, I know how to centralize the use of it by configuring /etc/default/ufw) 

24. Why is xscreensaver options set by default to fetch a remote url, I believe at Ubuntu Fridge? For security/privacy that should be changed. 

25. NO CLIPBOARD Utility (like glipper or klipper or one of the others) for the bottom right side of the panel? Instead we get xclipboard which isn't referenced in any of the menus and looks like something out of the stone age! 

26. When programs are removed from the LiveCD, they aren't always removed from the Menu entries. Shouldn't menu or the other menu-x?? something be installed to handle this? 

27. What is this file for and could it be abused by an attacker? /usr/share/casper/casper-reconfigure 

28. Why are there programs in /usr/lib/klibc/bin ? 

29. Shouldn't unmounting of /rofs be included for security should the user decide to remove packages on the LiveCD session? I add its unmounting to a cron job. 

30. What are /usr/lib/apt/methods and /usr/lib/apt/solver for? 

31. Why are mirroring application(s) on a LiveCD? 

32. Why not include a GUI download manager instead of just wget for cmdline? 

33. For a LiveCD, why are files like this installed: wall, view, write, bsd-write and more 

34. Would it be possible to create an Lubuntu LiveCD without Python and Perl installed? Or are they wound tightly as requirements? I have to manually remove files like pyclean and pycompile, I made a big mistake when I removed a Python or Perl compile directory, I couldn't stat UFW, it gave me errors! Why are compilation tools required for UFW to remain configurable? It continued to work, but I couldn't configure it anymore. 

35. I've noted duplicate sessions of pcmanfm running in the background (probably related to the gvfs beast I hate) and I didn't start them, what's this? 

36. Gdebi*, AptDaemon*, Apt*, Dpkg*, Debconf* = more than enough? 

I feel there are other issues both pro and con I could list, but this is long enough, and maybe I mixed more security/privacy suggestions in than need me for a general Lubuntu LiveCD. I'm aware of remastering but I'd rather stick with and support official distribution channels. 

Having said all that, I love Lubuntu! I will continue to use Lubuntu and have no desire to retry/reuse any of the other *buntu distributions ever, ever, again. I commend all contributers and developers of Lubuntu and I wish you not only a great New Year, but a wonderful future for you and Lubuntu! 

Lubuntu, I've found love and it's you, you, you!

---

### Post by sardinekisses on 2012-01-23
I cleaned up the format in the OP.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-01-23
tl;dr. Sorry. Very long.

Why would you like to see Vim removed? What harm is it doing being on the CD?

Also, UFW is disabled/not filtering ports on normal Ubuntu too. On normal Ubuntu, and I assume on Lubuntu, there is nothing listening for incoming connections anyway. A firewall would be superfluous at best (and doubly so if they are protected by their router's firewall too), and at worst it would be confusing for someone who installed a server process and couldn't figure out why it wasn't working.

Security by default is a good idea, and security in layers is also a good idea; your approach is laudable. But the firewall won't actually make the average person any safer at all, is likely to cause confusion, and probably won't even make the power user safer anyway as they won't want their server processes to be blocked.

Some things that aren't immediately necessary on the live CD (for example, unattended-upgrades) ARE a good idea to have on the installed Lubuntu instance. The Ubuntu/Lubuntu installer copies the live CD's contents over to the hard disk and then removes the installer. That's why unattended-upgrades and co are on the live CD - they're there so they can be used on the real thing.

The idea of "remove dialup modem software if you're on broadband, and remove broadband software if you're on dialup" is, on the surface, quite a good one. I thought of it once and was going to suggest it to the Ubuntu developers. Then I realised:

**a.** People currently on dialup might get broadband later down the track
**b.** People currently on broadband might move house and only have access to dialup in their new location; or their ADSL might be down and they have access to an emergency dialup account so they can get their e-mail.

On this computer I've used Ethernet, wifi, 3G, and phone tethering. I've attempted to use WiMax too (incompatible hardware). If Ubuntu had decided to limit me to Wifi-only just because that's what I was using when I first installed Ubuntu... well, I wouldn't be writing this message now. You can't install the additional support if you've lost your previous form of internet connection.

---

### Post by BrokenKingpin on 2012-01-23
I am glad a lot of people are liking Lubuntu. I also prefer it over Ubuntu and Kubuntu, but not over Xubuntu.

Xubuntu/Xfce just feel like a far more complete system and is easier to configure, and not all that much slower than Lubuntu (even on my old crappy machines). I also like how Xfce has a built in compositer as well.

---

### Post by mips on 2012-01-23
> **sardinekisses said:**
> <snip>

Why don't you just build your own setup using the minimal install cd? That way you get what you want.

Problem is everybody has different needs/requirements/ideas as to what their distro should look like. It's impossible to cater for everybody. The best thing you could do is to do your own custom install then you get the packages, config, look, feel etc that you want.

---

### Post by Rodney9 on 2012-01-23
For How-To's, Information and Screen-Casts on Lubuntu go to the
Lubuntu One Stop Thread - 

[[COLOR="Blue"]Lubuntu One Stop Thread[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1844755")

Rodney

---

### Post by sardinekisses on 2012-01-25
> **mips said:**
> Why don't you just build your own setup using the minimal install cd? That way you get what you want.

Problem is everybody has different needs/requirements/ideas as to what their distro should look like. It's impossible to cater for everybody. The best thing you could do is to do your own custom install then you get the packages, config, look, feel etc that you want.

 Thank you, I've thought of this, but I can only use LiveCDs.  When I do a hard drive install, even after wiping, my hard drive is like a continual hamster on a wheel, with rogue processes running in the background and chkrootkit and rkhunter warnings along with, using the unhide package, several open ports and commands listed in History I did not issue. I cannot dodge it, I wipe the drive, reinstall, and someone else is clearly using my computer and I cannot get a handle on it.  It could include or be arp or dns poisoning, I've tried monitoring my connection with Wireshark, but when I do, all rogue activity ceases during the duration of the monitoring. 

 I see weird system errors and even when encrypting the device, errors about encryption and writing to a &quot;cleartext device&quot; where none exists. Gvfs and Gvfsd with various programs attached to them are running, and some errors in the log mention &quot;remote&quot; several times, even after removing any vnc, rdesktop, vpn type of packages. I'm at a loss and believe it to be a BIOS trojan and/or graphics card bios/firmware trojan or arp/dns poisoning.  When I run from a LiveCD, I can remove as many packages as I want, going so far as to delete everyday commands like mv, rm, rmdir, and more, unmount /rofs and create a cronjob to ensure it's unmounted to avoid deleted files being replaced on the drive, and when I reboot the session is clean again. 

 Even when using a LiveCD, I experience the same symptoms of a rooted system, but I try and remove as many programs as I can before connecting to the network.  The more I cripple it, the less attacks are experienced. Development/compiling tools should not be on a LiveCD! This is part of the problem I've noticed, build/compile and remote fetching of code and using a clamav utility to modify the modified binaries so they won't be flagged by clamav.  If I try to make my own LiveCD, the mysterious infection will crop up again and will be within the LiveCD. I've noticed many strange commands in my history file, including pycompile, pyclean, cpan files, remote terminal tools, and more.

 It does not matter what distribution of Linux I try, this always happens. Binaries appear larger and contain garbage along with strange codes, I've observed other users posting about this problem on forums and newsgroups but no one gives them a clear answer or any answer at all!  If I did not experience these issues, I'd try your suggestion.

I cannot re-flash BIOS because I'm not sure how I'd find a safe medium which is not infected to flash from!  

  Thank you Rodney9 for your information.

---

### Post by Docaltmed on 2012-01-26
I have a difficult time taking seriously any review of anything which starts talking about the Illuminati in the first paragraph.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-01-26
Moved to Testimonials.

---

