---
title: "10.04 on Dell 1720 - Excellent"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by grimerking on 2010-05-05
Hi, 

I just wanted to congratulate all the people that have worked to produce 10.04. It is a major leap forward for Ubuntu and 'just works'. 

Here are a few observations: 

1) Installation - very easy. My only 'gripe' is that the installation options are not very well explained. For example, I had 20GB of unallocated space at the end of my 2nd HDD. I wanted to use this to install Ubuntu. It wasn't immediately clear that I had to select the last option in the list. Apart from that, installation was plain sailing. 

2) Drivers installed flawlessly. It even suggested the correct nVidia driver to install. This is a major improvement on previous releases that required 'Linux knowledge' just to get the desktop effects and native resolution correct

3) Network configuration - I typed in my network password and Ubuntu took care of the rest!

4) Included software: 

   a) Evolution Mail - I copied my .PST files over from my windows installation and imported them into Evolution. After a minimal amount of fiddling, I have email working nicely. 

   b) Transmission - Good bittorrent client with IP Filtering included. Working well. 

   c) VLC Player available from the software centre - nice

5) I needed to use my Sony Ericsson W890i mobile phone as a modem, via bluetooth. I added the device using the wizard and then connected using the network menu. Again, it 'just worked'. One recommendation is to add this feature to the Bluetooth menu. It took me a while to find where I had to 'click' to connect. 

That's all for now, but I am very, very impressed. I'm now using Ubuntu for everything except gaming. 

Keep up the good work, spread the word and 10.04 can be (is already) a genuine alternative to Windows. 

Rob

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-05-05
Hello and Welcome to Ubuntuforums!

I am glad it is working well for you!

Cheers,
Ronnie

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2010-05-06
You could suggest your ideas here [http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/](http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/)

---

