---
title: "My 1-year experience with Ubuntu"
date: 2008-10-26
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by duott on 2008-10-26
Hi guys, I've recently joined the forum and find it a great place, I've been reading "Testimonials and experiences" for several days and now decided to write my own story about my experience with Ubuntu and Linux in general. It's going to be a rather long read :popcorn: , please excuse my English. 

About a year ago I've got totally pissed off by my WindowsXP - I just had to reinstall it every month or so, because it kept getting broken (not a virus issue - it just worked for some time and then crashed). Morover, my favorite antivirus program switched from freeware to shareware, and I didn't find any decent freeware analogues. Morover, I live in Moscow (Russia), and people aren't used to paying for software here (I think some 90% home PCs have illegal copies of Windows, Photoshop and all the stuff, with 10% being laptops which come with a legal Windows pre-installed). People just don't think about it, if this or that particular piece of software is free or not, if not - they just download a crack and get on with it, as they had been taught by whoever taught them to use a PC (they think it's just the usual procedure, they'll be very surprised if told that they are violating some kind of law this way). But things are slowly starting to change, with several governmental programmes being launched, all the companies were forced to buy all the software they use by the police (my dad is an admin with a company, so he told me a lot about it), and I feared that someday it may also apply to home users. By this moment I was sick of constantly looking for cracks, keygens and patches for every single damn app anyway.

I've first come across Linux when an acquaintance who worked with IT showed it to me running on her PC. It was openSuSe with highly customized interface which resembled a pilot cabin more than a desktop (all the programs were executed via console, it was all black & green and everything ran lightning fast). I loved it from the first sight, so I asked her what this thing was and how much pain it would be to learn it. I learnt that it wasn't going to be hell of a work, except for installing apps (I don't know, it seems that for some reasons she compiled everything from source), that it didn't need an antivirus and that everything on this system was free. 

In a week or so I tried to installed it on my desktop. I had no idea what should I do with this ISO file, so I mounted it, unpacked it and, having failed to find a setup.exe :lolflag: , I looked for a guide on the web on howto install it from my hard drive. I don't know how on earth I managed to overlook all these simple guides explaining how to burn an easy-to-use install CD, but so it happened. After some playing with grub, messing up my MBR and having a lot of "fun", I was finally able to launch my first linux. It was a GNOME version first, then I installed KDE. Generally I liked it, and my girlfriend liked it too, so I installed it on her PC too (in the same brainracking manner). 

The problem was network connectivity. There're several PCs at my home, and my one worked as a server, but I couldn't share my connection in Linux. In Windows in was a matter of several clicks - but with Linux it was going to be real pain. Luckily, I had a geek to ask for help, she came in and it took her several hours to write the iptables.rules file from scratch to finally make IP forwarding work. It was real luck, because if I wasn't able to turn it on, I would be forced to move back to Windows by other members of my family who all needed Internet (I've learnt the magic word "router" from then :lolflag: , so it's no longer an issue).

I used this setup for some time, learnt a lot of useful stuff and found across only one real problem: it was damn SLOW. Yast took an awful lot of time to launch, and even more to search, and even more to install anything. I thought my Athlon4600+ PC with 2 gigs RAM was pretty cool, but openSuSE apparently didn't. Morover, the RPM system seemed confusing - I found many rpm's on the web, but I couldn't installed them (these were Mandriva RPMs, as I figured out later), and not everything I needed came in handy in the repos. I tried to compile from source, but failed (I've learnt it since than and now it seems just as easy as double-clicking on a deb file, but back than it was very confusing).

I remembered that Linux could be very fast, as I had seen it previously, so I thought that maybe I should try another distro. I googled for some help and was advised to try AltLinux or AspLinux - these are specific Russian distros which are recommended for their perfect Russian localization. I was confused because I didn't come across any localization issues with openSuSe - it spoke Russian as well as a lot of other languages out of the box, the interface, the openoffice, everything. I tried them anyway, and added Mandriva to the list (just in case), but in all these four distributions I found the same puzzling RPM system (all four distributions - SUSE, ASP, Alt and Mandriva - had their software in RPM format, but it seemed that each of them has some other kind of RPM which was unrecognizable by the three others).

By this time I grew pretty much fed up with Linux - it actually took me days to learn things, and after several weeks many of them were still unresolved. Midi playback in TuxGuitar was one, and as my girlfriend played in a band and needed it badly, I just reinstalled Windows on her PC to forget about it.

The next attempt was with Debian (sarge). Apt-get seemed a miracle. Everything installed from the command line just by typing in a command - no looking for apps on the web, no struggling with RPMs, and the repositories were real large and packed with useful stuff, and all of that was free. I was fascinated. To cut long story short, after some time I moved to Kubuntu, stayed there for several months, until KDE 4.0 came out and turned out to be one big nasty bag of bugs. Finally, after playing with e17 and other DEs, I decided to give GNOME another try and installed Ubuntu 7.10. I've been using it for about half a year now, upgraded to 8.04.1 since then and it's definitely the best OS ever, compaired to Windows as well as other Linux distros. 

Moving from distro to distro I found that there is not so much difference between them. The kernel is the same, the apps are the same, so a distro is basically just an installer, a package management system and some specific configuration tools. What really make Ubuntu unique is the community. Every time I had a question I just typed it in google and added "ubuntu" to it ("flv to avi ubuntu", "nvidia drivers ubuntu", "turn on spellcheck openoffice ubuntu") and each time I came across a link pointing to this forum with a ready and simple solution. Thank you all guys, you helped me a lot by writing these guides.

I was amazed by how many things turned out possible with Ubuntu linux (and I still am). When I first installed Linux I was ready to face some restrictions. I thought that I would lack some drivers - actually, the only such problem was with my USB ADSL modem, which I had to replace with a regular ADSL modem and it worked perfectly ever since. I thought that I would have to launch a lot of applications from Wine and half of them still wouldn't launch - but actually I managed to find much better counterpart apps for Linux, except for two - Noiseware noise reducer (the GIMP filter is lame) and ICE BookReader (PyBookReader is good, but it fails to install under Ubuntu). I'm still able to launch these two apps with Wine and they work perfectly. Damn, I was told that there're no games under Linux, but I've recently installed Sublustrum under Wine and - yeah! - it ran flawlessly, very much as a native application! Wine seems to have improved greatly and they have a lot of games in their database.

When I finally bought a router I thought I would have to invite some geek again to make it work. Nope, I hadn't to - it worked right out of the box. I was amazed at just how easy it was, after literally f**ing with iptables setup. Two days ago I bought a Razer Deathadder mouse and I was sure that side buttons won't work but - guess what? - they worked out of the box, I didn't need to install any drivers, I didn't need to reconfigure my xorg.conf - it just plugged it in and that's all. Skype setup wasn't a problem. Modem setup wasn't a problem. Audigy soundcard wasn't a problem. My phone and my camera were immediately recognized. I was expecting some hard times, but no, it all "just works" as promised... great job, really.

And about the apps. Freeware software for Windows is usually worse than software you have to pay for, it is more primitive, lacks some features and all that. As Linux is 100% free, I was expecting that native apps would lack some functionality and be overall more primitive than Windows ones. Actually, it turned quite the opposite. Such apps as Exaile, Claws Mail, F-Spot, Pidgin and Nautilus (bookmarks!!), Wbar made my computing experience much better. Morover, Ubuntu turned out to have a much more configurable interface - with Screenlets, Compiz and different GNOME tools I was able to customize it way more than Windows and make it look better than Vista - and WAY better than XP. My girlfriend is happy with it too and I recommend Ubuntu to whoever asks me for advice with their computers. 

With Stardict I'm able to work in Ubuntu (I'm a translater), so I spend ~90% of my time in Linux. The only reason I have to keep a dual-boot with Vista is games. Fallout3 is soon due to arrive and I'm not going to miss it, but once Wine gets mature enough to handle it - I'm going to "apt-get purge windows" forever :mad:

Thanks for reading :)

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2008-10-27
Nice read thanks. You're right about the difference between Freeware for Windows and Free Software. When people hear that Ubuntu is free they often think it's free in the same way Freeware is, and with the same low quality. Glad to hear it's working well for you! Your English is perfect by the way.

---

### Post by Sprocket_dk on 2008-11-05
hi duott.

could you post your xorg.conf. i also have a death adder and my side buttons does'nt work.

---

