---
title: "11.04 VS 10.10   What i noticed!"
date: 2011-05-08
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by hatewindows on 2011-05-08
Hello all--I have a quad core and a dual cord machine both with Loads of memory. I installed 11.04 on both and i must tell you 10.10 is faster and more responsive. I understand you can login without the fancy tool bar--but in no way is it as fast or faster then 10.10.. Opening browsers-opening many types of programs--They dont open as fast as they did in 10.10 and i also notice boot time is longer..I do believe Ubuntu is playing the game windows plays--Load all kinds of crap and fancy tool bars--and before you know it--the fastest systems bog down! Its a fact--Even older versions of ubuntu 9.10 the system flys--11.04 is nice cool looking but its starting to load down the pc with all the Bells and whistles added.. I see it i know what i'm talking about--i own a computer business over 25 Years (PCDOCTOR)--Thanks all just my 2 cents... 11.04 looks great--but overall its not as responsive as 10.10 and lower versions..

Have a great day!!!

---

### Post by Spyderkid on 2011-05-08
if you have a nivida card go to Compiz and find OpenGL and disable the sync to Vblank

that will dramatically speed up graphics

---

### Post by hatewindows on 2011-05-08
Did that--still sluggish.......  10.10 flys... Thanks tho...

---

### Post by VanR on 2011-05-08
Yes IMO 11.04 is much slower. That's one of the reasons  I'm back to 10.10 now. I'm waiting to see if there are fixes for it or maybe I'll wait for 11.10.

---

### Post by bouncingwilf on 2011-05-08
Yup - back to 10.10 on all three machines. 11.04 slow to install, slow to boot, sluggish and hated the interface. Not sure that pig's going to fly! - not on a desktop anyway.


Bouncingwilf

---

### Post by Iowan on 2011-05-08
Moved to Ubuntu Testimonials & Experiences

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-05-09
You didn't mention if possibly there's a program keeping your CPU at 100%, because I haven't noticed a speed difference between 10.10 and 11.04.

---

### Post by Jeff.Smith on 2011-05-09
I have used ubuntu since Warthog all on the same machine, and the only thing that hangs up performance for me is the graphics. I also run 11.04 on a newer system and the speed is very good. Much better than windows at the very least.

---

### Post by lanceflame44 on 2011-05-15
This is my favorite Ubuntu so far, I started using Ubuntu since the Hardy Heron days, I did not like the interface at the start but the things that compiz could do and the fact that it was free made up for that and a bit after, around the release of 9.10, I read about Linux mint and tried it and found it to be way better than Ubuntu because the mint menu was very similar to windows however i kept waiting for Ubuntu to change to something like that and it did with unity, the Ubuntu button is good or even better than mint menu and the unity dock is AWESOME, it is awesome because it does what is is supposed to and does not use up valuable screen space. I timed both Linux mint 10 and Ubuntu 11.04 and have found that they boot up, log in and launch Firefox all at the same speed, in fact Ubuntu 11.04 boots up slightly faster than Linux mint 10. another thing that is good is how you can move the windows to the sides and put them side by side or move the window to the top of the screen and maximize it. but no matter how good this version of linux is there are still some things I'd like Ubuntu to do,first of all they should at least customize Firefox a bit, the reasoning for this is because mac has their safari, windows has their Internet explorer and Ubuntu has plain old Firefox, the least they could do is integrate some addons and integrating it better like making a Firefox button. another thing is the login, I've heard that they are going to use the LightDM for 11.10 but that still is not secure enough, on the screen-shot i have seen there is a dreaded login as guest button and that is not good for people who don't want random people to use their computers. another thing is that libreoffice's file,edit,etc menus are not on the top like the rest of the applications. and lastly the cursor does not hide when you type

---

