---
title: "11.04 is the worst ever. 10.10 here I come"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by dhruv_1884 on 2011-04-29
Having used all the versions of ubuntu form 5.04, I can safely say that this is the worst version ever. Going back to 10.10.

1) wifi broken on Acer aspire 5100, really bad regression, it's worked for 4 years before this without any problems. 

2) lack of applets, can't scale frequency, or see system temp or have the system monitor in the panel

3) compiz broken as well

4) takes too many clicks to get to any app. First click n unity, then on More Apps then on See XX more Results, then scroll and then when you find it clck on it. The UI design is not intuitive at all and really time consuming

I know you guys have tried to copy OSX, all I can say is that it's a really bad job

10.10 me coming back to you will wait till 11.10

---

### Post by drklunk on 2011-04-29
I mean, it did release **yesterday**

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-04-29
I can tell by number 4 that you are a hater without taking the time to understand unity. Your description in number 4 shows you didn't look into how best to do things. See this.

[http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity](http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity)

There are a number of ways to run an app and you described the least efficient. If you ask questions about the other issues, there may be solutions, you never know.

---

### Post by matt_mccarron on 2011-04-29
Not a fan of the unity desktop... doesn't work on my acer aspire on 0751h anyway, but the old lady has the unity desktop...

she liked it at first, but after one day, she wants the GNOME desktop back...

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2011-04-29
wait til 11.10 for what?
More unity? lol

You know..
Ive been trying to give 11.04 a chance..
and Ive even gotten to the point where I dont absolutely hate unity anymore...
 But running 11.04 in virtualbox for the past week or two,
and seeing how screwed up everything STILL is, even after the final release...

 I am just about to call it quits with this 11.04 rubbish. 

I really would have liked to be able to just upgrade, and just keep the classic desktop..
 But Im running into soo much crap still in 11.04..
it's not even worth it. 

Screw it. 

I'll go back to my original feelings on it all..
what a joke. 
Can't believe such rubbish came from ubuntu. :rolleyes:

pfft.

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-04-29
Thanks for sharing your experience. Feel free to start help requests in their proper sub-forum if you wish to get help with these issues.

Moved to T&E

Closed

---

