---
title: "8.04 system lock-up"
date: 2008-09-23
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by carusoswi on 2008-09-23
. . . occurred at 9:50 PM Eastern time while surfing the web.  No keystroke escape possible.  Had to hit the power button to reboot.  This while running 8.04.

Just so you know.

Caruso

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-09-23
this has happened to me also. after a bit of research, it seems it is a little understood bug that is fixed in the next release of ubuntu. it doesn't happen alot to me, so i'm not going to worry about it.

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2008-09-24
i had this the other day.... my hard ware was the issue... some extreme heat in that thar box of hardware

a few extra added fans and presto... all fixxed

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-09-24
glad you figured it out. with me, i know it's not the temps, as my box is extremely ventilated and cooled. (cpu is 38C) but as i said it doesn't happen enough to worry about. besides that, it runs perfect.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-09-24
Glad to hear you figured it out.

---

### Post by bcde617 on 2008-09-25
Cool topic, come on to update it. will keep an eye on it. Coolingame was established in December 25, 2004. Our head office located in Malaysia beachPenang. We focus on provide the professional power leveling services. Different to other sites we do powerleveling ONLY, no any virtual goods trade. We have our own [wow powerleveling](http://www.coolingame.com) team and this make sure that your order will be done in time with high quality. A hands-on shopping with us will immediately tell the difference. We wrecked our brains to better cater to the needs of our dear customers and constantly meliorated our services to better entertain our clients. With flying delivery, around-the-clock customer service, sophisticated order processing system and guaranteed powerleveling security, coolingame has won the trust from thousands of customers. Perhaps around your friends as well as our customers. i like [wow power leveling](http://www.coolingame.com) service.[WoW Powerleveling](http://www.levelmyth.com) & World of Warcraft power leveling service.Do you feel bored while level rate increasing process? Don't worry about that. Let LevelMyth do it for you. Trust our professional level service. We will do our best in all of our orders. We have done a great number of orders for: [WOW power leveling](http://www.levelmyth.com) US, World of Warcraft power leveling EUand other games.

---

### Post by carusoswi on 2008-10-05
Glad you found a simple solution.  When I first purchased this XPC computer, I actually returned the first copy and almost took this one back, as well.  In those days, the only OS's I knew about were MAC (haven't owned anything Apple since my IIc days) and MS.  I used to get the 'blue screen of death' regularly on this system, which, while small, is supposed to have a very fine cooling system, still,considered innovative (ICE it's called).

But I loved the small form factor so I kept the machine and just put up with those shut downs for the longest time, until one day the age of the machine overtook my restraint, and I tore the machine apart. I think the machine was put together without the heat conducting goop that is supposed to be in there.  Got me some, applied it, and have not had another heat-related shut down since.  In XP, I have a utility that monitors the temperatures, don't have that in XP, but, of course, the machine (it's bios??) protects itself by shutting down if it overheats.

I'm not certain if the lockups I experience would cause a hot machine to cool down - I don't know, actually.

Anyhow, I'm glad you got your problem sorted out.

Caruso

> **stinger30au said:**
> i had this the other day.... my hard ware was the issue... some extreme heat in that thar box of hardware

a few extra added fans and presto... all fixxed

---

