---
title: "I'm going back to Winblows (maybe Vista)"
date: 2007-01-16
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by gfgodoy on 2007-01-16
I'm starting this thread a little disappointed. I like the idea of a world free of commercial software, open sourced and everything, I'm open minded you know. I have NEVER used Windows Internet Explorer since the release of Firefox, and I was one of the biggest fans of Divx... until it became a corporate sell-out piece of software so I migrated do the Xvid technology and I couldn't be happier.

I think that 100.000 users can make a piece of software better that a corporation, but not always.

My experience with Ubuntu was made of hope in getting a system that was as easy as windows but more secure. And I somewhat got it... and for free and open sourced.

But as time passed by things have changed. 

Sure I was impressed about how helpful and BIG this community is, I got really excited about the freedom that Ubuntu gave me (icon stretching still makes me happy LOL), Driver icons only appearing in the desktop as I put on the device (CD, DVD, pendrive...).
I was really impressed about ubuntu update system (updated keep appearing on an on an on, and that is GREAT), The add and remove button is excellent (winblows has it but it only works for uninstalling software, it doesn't compare to the library off free stuff that ubuntu has to offer), live CD was great, installation process FLAWLESS (putting an icon on live CD was brilliant ;), even George Bush can install Ubuntu with his eyes closed (he keeps them like that anyway). But along with the MANY, MANY, MANY good things there were flaws.

I guess that money kindda makes a HUGE different in the world and that makes me SAD.

I understand that MOST of the problems that I had with Ubuntu were generated by the lack of interest that companies have in Linux users. Easyubuntu and Automatix helped me a lot in installing stuff like WinRar, Skype, WMV/MPEG2 support, NVidia driver. But in my opinion some things weren't right and could be changed in future versions.... For instance: it took me a while to discover Easyubuntu... I had a lot of hassle trying to unrar some files... had to make a lot of arrangements on synaptic to run WMV/MPEG stuff only then to findout that this community has a software made it easier! The regular user, at least a user that doesn't have the time to come to ubuntu forums for help our doesn't dominate English, would NEVER find out about EasyUbuntu!!!! Really... IMHO when I try to open an WMV totem COULD at least explain WHY I'm not beeing able to read the files (Blame the Big Corporate Bastards) and at least link me to a site with a solution to the problem!

One more thing about corporations are ruining my Ubuntu experience: LACK of hardware support...

I CANT (really I tried it all) get my Palm Top syncing properly!!!! This for me is the BIGGEST flaw in Ubuntu. Really this is the ONLY thing that makes me disappointed on Ubuntu, everyone I know (I'm an Intern at a hospital in Brazil) uses some kind of Palm Top... how am I suppose to tell them that linux is great is I can't get a Palm Syncing program that really works (well, Palm sync in Windows sucks also... but it works :() I tried and tried, followed a lot of guide but nothing... and it seems that I'm NOT the only one in this boad: a lot of people have issues with PDAs on Linux. Is this Palm Inc. fault on not giving us codes and stuff... maybe.

One other thins that I could't get to work is my Skypemate software/hardware. I have an addaptor that kinda integrates my home phone line with skype... running windows I just have to pick up the phone and Skype windows pops up and I can dial anyone in my contact list on a simple click or speed dial codes. But on Linux... it did not work... nor I see anyone succesfully making it work ANYWHERE!!!... big corporations fault?? Maybe again

There is really one thing that I totally blame ubuntus software for getting me ](*,) 

And that is PPPOE configuration. I know this technology sucks, but it is the one that I have in my house... So Ubuntu is linux for humans right?? So why do I have to pop up a terminal, look at an ugly  terminal and type pppoeconf to configure my internet connection?? Shoudn't it be simple?? I don't see my grampa doin't it (well my dad... my grampa can't connect to an internet even on windows :-D )... This in my opinion should be fixed, am I right?

Other issues I had with ubuntu: my internet connection keeps falling on Ubuntu... Amule keeps running, and GAIM so I guess ubuntu has issues with holding on to my DNS server... this should be fixed (I tryed getting help, but the solutions presented weren't effective).

One last thing: Windows partitions SHOULD be read on Ubuntu on a simpler way :( Running to  the terminal AGAIN to do that might scare the regular user (my dad again). I'm a 22year old guy, I could make it work, but I'm getting older LOL, and as I have less and less time to sit in front of the PC I don't want to keep running the terminal over and over again to make thing work... As when I got a crash while running "Add or Remove"... I was laughing when the software told me what command I should be typing in the terminal to make itself work again!!!! I didn't see the day would come when a software would be the boss of me (other the MS paper clip from the office suit LOL). Shouldn't this be automated?? Shouldn't a windows popup saying: "hey dude, I see your PC crashed just because it sucks ;)... but I'm fixing it right now so please hold for a while"...

Well I guess that it all... frankly: I guess I'll put Vista and Ubuntu in dual boot mode: there are two things that Ubuntu beat Winblows by far: DVD recording success rate (damn Nero lost me a lot of DVD-Rs :() An download speed (I'll keep doing some BIG downloads on linux.)


Well that is all...I just had to say it all. If I didn't like Ubuntu and it communty I'd leave without  even bothering to say Thanks for the ride but bye bye :(.

Please someone post a response

---

### Post by Sqwishy on 2007-01-16
Sounds like you had quite a lot of problems. My most recent installation of Ubuntu was the best I ever had. During the first few days i downloaded pretty much everything i needed from a nice list on an Ubuntu wiki. I found EasyUbuntu quite easily. Also i never had any problems with my internet connection, I also tested using ubuntu's palm software with a zire 31 (i think) and it was good!
Sorry you didn't have the greatest time. :( 
Linux still loves you!

---

### Post by matthew on 2007-01-16
It happens. I'm sorry to hear about it. Unfortunately it turns out [Ubuntu isn't for everyone]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=63315"). I wish you the best.

---

