---
title: "12.04 locking up just like 11.10 did..."
date: 2012-04-12
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Hylas de Niall on 2012-04-12
I'm gutted! LOL!

I'm a fan of Unity, and when support ended for Maverick i thought i'd try the latest Ubu on my desktop machine. I was using Maverick because Oneiric kept locking up and freezing me out - i must stress: this happened *only on my desktop machine*.

At the time i spent a few weeks looking for solutions to my problem both here and elsewhere, but found no reasons for the crashes. So in the end i put it down to Gnome 3 not 'getting along' with my hardware. 

It seems that this is still the case :(

My hardware + Windows 7 ----Runs like a dream (even under heavy use)
My hardware + Gnome 2 ----Runs like a dream (even under heavy use)
My hardware + Gnome 3 ----Crash bang wallop! (Under 'Shell' *or* Unity)

Trying Kubuntu desktop on 12.04 right now   ....*but i miss Unity!*

Is anyone else still getting these Gnome 'Freezes'?

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2012-04-12
and the GPU is?

---

### Post by Hylas de Niall on 2012-04-12
> **mastablasta said:**
> and the GPU is?

LOL! I went through all this with 11.10, but the GPU is an on-board Intel GMA X4500.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2012-04-12
Interesting that you had these lockups. I had the exact same thing happen on 12.04 and 11.10. My graphics card is a AMD ATi HD 4250 and I used the proprietary driver. I assumed it was due to the driver that I had frequent, totally random lockups. The desktop would freeze and only a hard reboot fixed it (holding down the power key till it shut off). I observed this behavior on Ubuntu, Mint and only one time on Ultimate Edition (based off of 11.10 also). Since you used an Intel chipset it makes me wonder if video was the culprit after all.

---

### Post by Hylas de Niall on 2012-04-12
One other thing that may be pertinent in my particular case (that only just occurred to me), is that my desktop machine is an Acer Aspire X3812, a low-power box   ...would that be an issue for Gnome 3?

[http://www.acerdirect.co.uk/Grade_A1_-_Acer_Aspire_X3812_Desktop_PC__A1-98.HUM7Z.UPN/version.asp](http://www.acerdirect.co.uk/Grade_A1_-_Acer_Aspire_X3812_Desktop_PC__A1-98.HUM7Z.UPN/version.asp)

Both the 'buntu's it has issues with work really well on my much less powerful netbook.

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-04-12
If you haven't try the unity 2d session and see if it is 3d that's the issue.

---

### Post by Hylas de Niall on 2012-04-12
> **philinux said:**
> If you haven't try the unity 2d session and see if it is 3d that's the issue.

It would happen in 2D as well on 11.10, don't think that i tried 2D with 12.04 :(
I'm back with 10.04.4 on my desktop now though.


...bit of a Fronkensteen fan, BTW? :) - I love that film!

---

### Post by Hylas de Niall on 2012-04-17
I'm also giving Fedora 16 (with Shell) a try.
That way i'll be closer to knowing if it's Ubu or Gnome that isn't getting along with my desktop machine. (I think?).

---

### Post by Hylas de Niall on 2012-04-22
Well, i've come to the conclusion now that the issue is with the 3.xx.x kernels. Googling around for the past few weeks indicates that a lot, and i mean a lot, of people have the exact same issue as i do.

Looks like i'm stuck with the last LTS on this machine. But hey, that's not such a bad thing is it?

---

### Post by Onesimus on 2012-04-22
> **Hylas de Niall said:**
> I'm gutted! LOL!

I'm a fan of Unity, and when support ended for Maverick i thought i'd try the latest Ubu on my desktop machine. 

But the latest Ubuntu version is 11.10.  I think it's a little bit hard to critcise 12.04 when it's still in Beta.  It is not officially released until next week.

Why not give 12.04 a go at the end of May when its been out for a month and the wrinkles have been ironed out ?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-04-22
> **Onesimus said:**
> But the latest Ubuntu version is 11.10.  I think it's a little bit hard to critcise 12.04 when it's still in Beta.  It is not officially released until next week.

It's four days out from release. I think that's an appropriate time to be concerned about bugs.

> Why not give 12.04 a go at the end of May when its been out for a month and the wrinkles have been ironed out ?

It's not guaranteed that this "wrinkle" will be ironed out. Think about it: If everyone with the problem followed this advice, then the developers would never even know about the problem, let alone fix it.

My advice would be to check the RAM. If possible, by actually taking RAM out of the computer and checking if the problem exists. If the problem still occurs when the computer is missing one RAM stick, then put that stick back in and take out another one and test again.

If you can rule out the RAM as a problem, then file a bug report.

Just because Windows 7 and an early Ubuntu work, does not mean that it's not a case of bad RAM.

---

