---
title: "7.10 Is Crap."
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Onay on 2007-10-19
How about you download it from the official repositories and not from seeded torrents? I downloaded at 500+ kb/s for the entire download, quite fast in my opinion.

Oh, and by the way, I think its funny how you're judging an operating system on how poorly it downloads from third party servers and not actually USING it... pretty immature if you ask me.

---

### Post by loell on 2007-10-19
you would know if its a bad ISO , if the checksum is incorrect. so if you know if its "really" a  bad ISO, you won't have to burn it in the first place.  and if the checksum is correct then **your burner is the  crap**

---

### Post by stchman on 2007-10-19
> **lowlux2gmail.com said:**
> you need to fix your damn upgrade crap... the torrent sever is sending out bad ISO... and it screws up the system.. i using  7.10... BUT STILL ON 7.4! and the update manger is screwed. 


i have downloaded 7.10... 7 times... and all came out bad...


When you finish downloading the .iso make sure you run the following in a terminal:

```
md5sum ubuntu-7.10-desktop-i386.iso
```

When the process is done the md5 checksum should be:

```
d2334dbba7313e9abc8c7c072d2af09c
```

If it not then you have a bad .iso file.

This is of course assuming that you downloaded the x86 32 bit .iso.  Here are the checksums for the other 7.10 distros.

```

ebf7ad055bc39634065daa10de980d7e ubuntu-7.10-alternate-amd64.iso
9a4ae3cfd68911a861d094ec834c9b48 ubuntu-7.10-alternate-i386.iso
61c87943a92bc7bf519da4e2555d6e86 ubuntu-7.10-desktop-amd64.iso
d2334dbba7313e9abc8c7c072d2af09c ubuntu-7.10-desktop-i386.iso
43ff753b260729b12c7d21d3a6db8c73 ubuntu-7.10-server-amd64.iso
7d88cd87df509a740d9f47b9bbf1375e ubuntu-7.10-server-i386.iso
5308a79f5e652edba5be84644ee14b09 ubuntu-7.10-server-sparc.iso
```

I agree with the other poster to download from the sites Ubuntu has in the drop down menu.  When you burn the CD burn it at a nice slow setting like 8X.  I have burned CDs at 32x or higher and the OS installs with all kinds of errors.

---

### Post by UbuntuniX on 2007-10-19
This is most likely the fault of your internet connection or burner. Get your facts right.

---

### Post by ericartman on 2007-10-19
Grandma used to say "when you think everybody else is wrong, you better look in the mirror"
Doesn't translate very well from Hopi, but you get the idea. Gutsy ROCKS!!

Cart

---

### Post by Wiebelhaus on 2007-10-19
> **ericartman said:**
> Grandma used to say "when you think everybody else is wrong, you better look in the mirror"
Doesn't translate very well from Hopi, but you get the idea. Gutsy ROCKS!!

Cart

lol , I Like that......BUT as  ponder on that for a minute , I realize I'm that dude. lol

---

