---
title: "11.10 disappointment"
date: 2011-10-25
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by RobertSwipe on 2011-10-25
I've upgraded my main PC from 10.10 to 11.10, using 11.04 merely as a stepping stone.

I have several 11.04 installations on other non-essential PCs, and decided to leave things alone on my main PC until the Unity/GnomeShell environment had settled down.

The experience of 11.10 Unity so far has not been good.

1. The main issue is that two monitors on my nvidia GeForce Go 7400 simply don't work any more. I'm restricted to the main display only - the second monitor shows a lovely picture of the desktop, but nothing else. No applications will run in it, and if I open the Home folder on the primary display, the second display simply blanks out (I've reported this elsewhere - others are having the same problem). So, one display only. I've updated to the latest nvidia drivers but still nothing.

2. The global menu in Unity is a real disaster. Applications like Firefox and Thunderbird start up full screen (not what I want), and now that the menu is in the top bar, switching applications is a slow and more painful process than before. I'm often having to click in the top bar to see the menu - why? There are several posts which tell me how to restore application window menus, but these don't really solve the problem completely. I desperately need an official way of restoring window menus. Currently, the top bar is a waste of screen space - with 10.10 I could dock many "system" status items and mini-launchers, where now it's mostly a duplicate of a menu which is associated with the current window, and often not even that until I click in it.

3. The left-hand launcher often doesn't appear when I want. It has to be "encouraged" sometimes with a few attempts at slamming the mouse pointer into the left edge. When it does appear, it's often difficult to navigate uo/down to find what I'm looking for.

4. The Workspaces icon can't be moved, so it's always down off the display and has to be scrolled up into view (see issue 3 above).

5. The launcher cannot be moved to bottom edge (I value my screen width and don't want it reduced).

6. Gnome Shell simply locks up - one or two seconds after logging in, the display freezes apart from the mouse. No keyboard activity works, and the only solution is to ssh in from another PC and reboot.

It would make more sense in Unity to combine the launcher and the top panel into a single entity (united?), giving more real estate to applications, and to allow the restoration (via user choice) of window menus instead of global.

I've stuck at this for some time now, and continue to find 11.10 a frustrating experience. I'm unable to roll back to 10.10, which would at least give me back two screens!

Hopefully, someone somewhere will find a way of getting nvidia drivers to work properly with 11.10, as this will be a major pain barrier overcome. Also, if I could get Gnome Shell to work, it would overcome my problem with Global Menus.

There's simply too much wrong with Unity at present - it's slowing my work down rather than improving it, and that is its biggest drawback.

---

### Post by ianp5a on 2011-10-25
1: Same here
3: Same here
5: Same here
 and have a dual monitor setup. So back on Gnome Classic which fixes those 3.

---

### Post by AlexeySol on 2011-10-25
Same disappointment on my side. 

I was already disappointed with 11.04 Studio, compared to 10.x it lost some functionality which I really came to appreciate, like the negative screen feature. 

But if I had known in advance what was awaiting me with 11.1, I would have disabled the automatic updates and stuck with 11.04 forever ! 

Where's my applications gone ? In Ubuntu Studio 11.04, I had a neat start menu like in MS Windows, with all applications nicely sorted in different folders, like "Internet", "Graphics", "Audio" etc. Now in 11.1 there's only some five or six oversized icons for Firefox and some OpenOffice shortcuts, and for the rest of my progz I have to hit the Dashboard and type in what I'm looking for. Hey, that's like moving back from Windows to DOS ! 

I'm afraid I'm gonna have to flatten my partition and install Ubuntu Studio 10.4 x64-Edition from DVD once again, and then make sure to disable all upgrades and updates. That was a serious operating system, nicely styled but fully functional -- it converted me from Windows to Linux in the first place. Now if I was new to Linux and Ubuntu 11.1 was the first thing I saw, I would laugh at it and go back to Windows XP !  

 :-({|=

---

### Post by ianp5a on 2011-10-25
I hope you memorised all the names of all your apps. If you didn't, you'll never see it again.

---

### Post by christopher.wortman on 2011-10-25
ahh the refreshing joys Kubuntu 11.10 is bringing me :) I suggested it to many who hated 11.04. Unity and all of the GTK kingdom has sucked since iteration, time to move onto the power desktop of choice. 4.7.x is simply nothing short of amazingly incredible. You wont ever look back.

---

### Post by ade234uk on 2011-10-26
> **christopher.wortman said:**
> ahh the refreshing joys Kubuntu 11.10 is bringing me :) I suggested it to many who hated 11.04. Unity and all of the GTK kingdom has sucked since iteration, time to move onto the power desktop of choice. 4.7.x is simply nothing short of amazingly incredible. You wont ever look back.


I agree with you here. Kubuntu 11.10 is pure joy compared to Unity.
Kubuntu gives me a choice, Even though Unity offers Gnome Classic I feel as though I am going backwards as I know Gnome is going no furher.

As for Gnome 3 its worse than Unity. What in the hell is everyone thinking.

---

### Post by xtremo on 2011-10-26
I regressed back to 11.04.....but judging by what I'm hearing maybe I should give Kubuntu a try.

---

### Post by INTENSETUX on 2011-10-26
Nvidia woes here also, tried to persevere with 11.10 despite my panel icons dissapearing then reappearing every time i opened/closed a window.Then i decided to go back to 10.4 LTS and everything is snappy and a joy to use once again.The appearance of Unity isnt a big deal for me, as long as it works without any bugs , which when you consider its the cutting edge of where Ubuntu is these days isnt suprising.I may upgrade to 10.10 but for the moment i am glad i decided to go back to Lucid,sure it isnt as polished as Unity but at least i know i am not going to be spending time fiddling with settings and scratching my head :)

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2011-10-29
> **xtremo said:**
> I regressed back to 11.04.....but judging by what I'm hearing maybe I should give Kubuntu a try.
Please do give Kubuntu a try. I switched after I found Ubuntu 11.04 to be a little too buggy and not really provide what I was looking for.

But I always said that I would return to Ubuntu/Unity at some point and this morning I installed Ubuntu 11.10 on a USB hard drive. It works fine. It's not as buggy as some would make out and I can do everything that I could do with earlier releases of Ubuntu and can do with the the concurrent release of Kubuntu.

Ubuntu 12.04 will be great, I've already reserved room on my USB drive for its alpha release in December.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-10-30
yah why not give Kubuntu and maybe even Xubuntu a try? i mean you just stick it on a USB and run it live to see how it works. if it works good use it, if not try something else. that's what i did so i am now on Kubuntu. it just worked much better and i kind o flike the "windows" way of doing things and windows navigation style. i just got used to it all these years using windows and it worked/works fine for me.

---

### Post by paped on 2011-10-30
Biggest problem I have with Unity is that on a smart phone/iPad type tablet it would be good with the big buttons etc as it seems to be geared more towards touch screen working but with a mouse and keyboard it just causes frustration and is not intuitive. All you seem to be doing is more mouse clicks and scrolling forever up and down your screen real estate to find applications.... Note to devs having a desktop option where a gnome type application menu rather than to full screen Unity affair is used would be better for mouse users....? Did try KDE but certainly on my netbook seemed a little heavy duty for my needs and the lighter desktops have the opposite problem basically I like Gnome (2.x) it does what I need in a good way and has done for years....

Anyway I have now got to breaking point with Unity and Gnome 3 seems immature in Ubuntu so after a number of years using Ubuntu (and being happy with it) I am moving to Linux Mint 11, which is Ubuntu 11.04 based so very similar but has a very nice looking and functional desktop and currently still uses Gnome 2.... and I like it a lot!

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-10-30
> **paped said:**
>  Did try KDE but certainly on my netbook seemed a little heavy duty for my needs and the lighter desktops have the opposite problem basically I like Gnome (2.x) it does what I need in a good way and has done for years....


two things you might want to try if you have some time. 

first one is netbook plasma KDE interface - i am not sure if this interface goes easy on resources or it just rearanges things so it's more suitable fo rnetbook screen. i am still searching fo rthat information (out of curiousity as i have no netbook).

second one is new to Kubuntu 11.10 and that is low-fat-desktop package, which turns off a lot of things to enable i to work on older macshcines. it uses less resources. then. might not looks as preety but who need those effects anyway...
[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/09/kubuntu-low-fat-settings-speed-boost-older-hardware/](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/09/kubuntu-low-fat-settings-speed-boost-older-hardware/)
[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3118376.0](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3118376.0)

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2011-10-30
> mastablasta
it uses less resources. then. might not looks as preety but who need those effects anyway...Right on target. What a waste of system resources.

I also agree that Kubuntu, Lubuntu & Xubuntu should be at least considered as alternatives. Especially, by those users who may not find the new Ubuntu releases unacceptable (for what ever reason).

Good call mastablasta

---

### Post by virtual50 on 2011-10-31
Hi, same problem in professional environment during unity 11.10 testing:
 
1 - Users are lost, they were happy before
2 - Hiding the menus and functions is not an ergonomy improvement, even if you don't use it often (do you hide warning lights switch in a car??).
3 - Gnome Fallback is not a professional option: it is buggy and the ergonomy is changed: users are lost
4 - Why a simple choice in the login "like before" ???
 
So, unity maybe, but as an option for tablets or smartphones. 
 
We chosed ubuntu mainly for the powerful Graphical Interface, so now, we have to reconsider all this for the next master (the current master is in LTS of course)

---

### Post by Arthur_D on 2011-11-02
Oops, double post.

---

### Post by Arthur_D on 2011-11-02
Use XFCE, change the panels to mimic GNOME 2.3x, and install the GTK applications you want (e.g. gedit). I can almost guarantee you'll be satisfied if you want a familiar environment. :)

---

### Post by ssek on 2011-11-04
Honestly Ubuntu 11.10 FAILED !

There's a lot of bugs, libreoffice is slower, firefox crash more, 
the system seem instable.

Why they deliver a instable product.
I would like to return to 11.04 but updates are for the new version of ubuntu...

If the next version FAIL I will stop to use ubuntu.

---

### Post by BlinkinCat on 2011-11-04
> **ssek said:**
> Honestly Ubuntu 11.10 FAILED !

There's a lot of bugs, libreoffice is slower, firefox crash more, 
the system seem instable.

Why they deliver a instable product.
I would like to return to 11.04 but updates are for the new version of ubuntu...

If the next version FAIL I will stop to use ubuntu.

I had none of those problems at all.
Did you do a fresh install or upgrade?

---

### Post by ssek on 2011-11-04
fresh install

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2011-11-04
> BlinkinCat
I had none of those problems at all.
 Did you do a fresh install or upgrade?

Is there something wrong with the upgrade process? If so, what  (potentially PPA's) and why? What is the upgrade process default and why  if there's a known problem, is it still in every release? Even the  process has been labeled differently - "Upgrade" or "Live Install", but  theoretically both accomplish the same task.

I like the upgrade concept, but if it's non-repeatable and/or not reliable  what value does it have? If flawed, why hasn't it either  been improved (fixed) or eliminated. I learned not to use said process when installing 8.04 and was informed  of the issue by a member of these forums. 

Waiting until a user comes  here to inform them that the process is flawed (assuming that it is),  seems counter-productive and deceptive.


> ssek
Why they deliver a instable product.
 I would like to return to 11.04 but updates are for the new version of ubuntu.

Not altogether correct. 11.04 is supported (updates) until [Oct. 2012]("https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Ubuntu_11.04").  As for it's instability, one should keep in mind that 11.10 is the newest  release. It's been my experience that new releases tend to have issues.  The update process often corrects many of these release issues. Perhaps  one might benefit from testing prior to simply installing any release.

IMHO should one prefer stability, I suggest they remain in the LTS  environment. I've actually read on the forums where some members believe  that new releases are cutting edge, just haven't figured out what edge.  As I have my doubts, that many of us would invest the money or time to  use cutting edge technologies for personal computing. :wink:

Just my $0.02

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-05
The truth is that upgrading to 11.10 is usually a disaster. But why not to do a fresh install? It's faster and it's far more probable to obtain a perfect installation. And your system is always new and fresh. I have a dual boot and all my files are in the NFTS part-there is no need for a backup. I left only 40g to Ubuntu. So when I have the slightest problem I reinstall the system and after 1 hour I have my computer working as a new one.

---

### Post by ianp5a on 2011-11-11
If you don't dual boot, people recommend to move your user files to a separate partition. Allowing you the chance to do a clean install or swap distros. However, hooking up your data to a new partition is quite a tricky process for non techies. If you start from scratch, be sure not to miss the possibility to set it up during installation. However you are not prompted in anyway, so you have to know exactly what to do.
One day it'll be ready for non techies.

---

### Post by IcyEyeG on 2011-11-11
> **Arthur_D said:**
> Use XFCE, change the panels to mimic GNOME 2.3x, and install the GTK applications you want (e.g. gedit). I can almost guarantee you'll be satisfied if you want a familiar environment. :)
[This is exactly what I did]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11421305&postcount=37"). Everyone that doesn't like Unity or Gnome 3, should definitely try/use Xubuntu.
I the only thing I miss there is some of the Gnome applets. I hope that in the future some of the more widely used applets can be ported as xfce plugins.
Nautilus can also be used in xfce, but there are some problems its integration. Hopefully, if more people start using it, they'll be eventually resolved. :popcorn:

---

