---
title: "10.04 impressions"
date: 2010-05-29
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by KiraLexi on 2010-05-29
The last time I clean-installed Ubuntu was 8.04 (been using UNIX and Arch Linux, and just upgrading my 8.04 install), and I was a little nervous about it. I was very pleasantly surprised. Installing nVidia drivers on 64-bit systems finally works perfectly through the Restricted Drivers Manager, and my wireless hardware was detected fine and connected with no trouble to my WPA2-enabled network. This was all good stuff.

I was less impressed with the UI side of things. Widgets on the left just aren't that appealing to me, so I switched to Clearlooks and widgets on the right almost immediately after installation. Window elements still take up far more space than their counterparts in NT or Mac OS X, which is kind of annoying, especially on lower-res displays. This was true in both the default theme and in Clearlooks. I'd like to see a more compact default theme in 10.10, even if it's just a tweaked Ambiance/Radiance. On more positive note, Plymouth works fine and boots fast.

Synaptic seems to steal focus far more than it used to, specifically during updates. This is quite annoying, and has resulted in me using command line dpkg instead of Synaptic. There were a few other minor irritations too - Sun Java has been moved to a different repository, and Flash is still slow and semi-dysfunctional. I recognize that the latter isn't Canonical's fault, and if I recall it works much better in the x86 version. Hopefully this will improve as time goes by. :)

Overall, 10.04 is a good release, and not deserving of the negative response it got from some users and websites in the first few days after release. It isn't perfect, but it's a solid Linux distribution that's making big steps in usability. I won't switch completely away from Arch on my x86 machines, but Ubuntu is definitely a good OS for my laptop, and I'll consider it for future installations on x86 boxes.

---

### Post by hansdown on 2010-05-29
You're right KiraLexi.

Lucid is getting better, thanks to the devs.

Every release has a few problems in the beginning, but they get fixed very quickly.

People complain about sudden occurrences that are something they haven't dealt with before, such as, the top and bottom panels not loading at boot.

The "magic sysRq" keys work for this. They are back when the system reboots.

[http://www.unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/768-recover-from-a-frozen-system-with-the-magic-sysrq-key-howto](http://www.unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/768-recover-from-a-frozen-system-with-the-magic-sysrq-key-howto)

---

### Post by za.zen on 2010-06-01
> **hansdown said:**
> Every release has a few problems in the beginning, but they get fixed very quickly.

This is my experience also, except with Lucid I have yet to have any problems on my system.  

I am one of the fortunate ones, perhaps?  :)

---

