---
title: "12.04 Experience"
date: 2012-08-26
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by tehcavil on 2012-08-26
I know it's been a few months since 12.04 was released but to give a truly fair review to the OS I have waited. After installing 12.04 on this computer (was running mint 11 before, but changed/upgraded due to needing some feature, I forget which). After a few months of using 12.04, I have concluded that despite a few flaws, 12.04 is actually a pretty good system. 

Laying the gnome 2->3/unity fiasco to rest, Unity is actually a far superior DE to gnome 3 in my opinion, as well as to mac/windows-style UIs with the menu on the bottom. The choice to put the bar on the side is a very smart one in my opinion, as it gives you more room for the actual program, bottom bars take up too much room, even with the auto-hide feature, as it is extremely annoying to accidentally touch the bottom of your screen as you are likely to do while scrolling or just using your computer and have the bottom bar come up and hide the bottom of your screen. Unity's left side bar is a more efficient use of space. Additionally, gnome 3's/mint's stock DE's on mint version 12+ has the annoying feature of bringing up a menu-dash-thing when you touch the top left corner (thank god unity doesn't have this).

KDE is nice but a little too heavyweight for my anemic notebook, xfce/xubuntu is fast but doesn't play well with Skype, and also its a pain to get xubuntu to let me use the media buttons on my laptop - something unity does out of the box, and even windows which came with the computer doesn't do.

Downsides->

Unity is a little sluggish but i have a low end notebook so that's to be expected. 12.04 doesnt play very well with skype and chrome crashes a lot(have since gone back to firefox because of this), although stock ubuntu treats skype a lot better than xubuntu does. Note: these problems might not be Ubuntu's fault, but the fault of the third-party software vendor's proprietary software.

Another downside is you cant customize unity too much, which I guess is good in some sense (preventing noobs from trashing their install), but would it kill you to let us move/remove dash? 

Also, xfce/xubuntu makes it alot easier to do workspace stuff - add workspaces, get rid of workspaces, keyboard shortcuts to switch workspaces, etc. Also cant remove the workspace icon from unity launcher bar.

By default on xubuntu scrolling the mouse wheel on the desktop switched the workspace, making a similar feature default on unity (if it exists) would take a lot of the pain out of workspace management.

Finally, alt-tabbing. When you only have windows of one application open (ex: two firefox windows) you can tab between them. But when you open windows of another application (ex: i also open rhythmbox), Now you can only tab between *applications* and i have to click on the firefox icon to switch between firefox windows. This is annoying, you should be able to switch between windows not apps all the time.

Overall, 12.04 is a good release and a vast improvement over 11.04/11.10, with a few minor tweaks unity-ubuntu is well on it's way to becoming the greatest distro (again).

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2012-08-26
Nice review! Unity should have more customization options, or at least, have the existing ones more obvious (such as workspaces, Alt-Tabbing)

---

### Post by exploder on 2012-08-26
That seemed like a pretty fair review of Unity. About the only thing I would like to see change is being able to minimize an application from clicking on the launchers icon. 

I have 12.04 installed on a laptop and a desktop now because I like the layout and it is pretty snappy on my hardware. I like how Ubuntu has chosen to go with it's own user interface and not followed the crowd.Unity has some interesting ideas and I think that over time more people will come to apperciate this fresh approach.

Ubuntu seems to be more receptive to user feedback these days and I think that Unity will keep improving with each new release. Ubuntu is gaing attention of game developers and I see more and more paid applications being introduced into the software center and this is a very positive thing in my opinion because it is addressing one of the things that has held Linux back in the mainstream.

The lenghth of support and the point peleases that 12.04 offers make it an attractive choice and it has been a very stable release on top of that. I am a fan of good work no matter what distribution builds and releases it and 12.04 meets my description of good work.

---

### Post by pete04 on 2012-08-27
This is one of the few fair assessments of Unity here. I, too, hopped around DEs and have since really settled into Unity and now feel lost without it. 

An essential tool for me is Ubuntu Tweak, an application that should be standard. Find it here: ubuntu-tweak.com. In addition to re-sizing the launcher and themeing controls you can really get a lot of nice extras, including a show desktop icon in the launcher. There are other tools out there, including my unity and unsettings. Each is worth a look.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2012-08-27
Also try MyUnity. It's in the Software Center. It will allow you to customize Unity.

---

### Post by BigCityCat on 2012-08-29
Yeh I really have to admit I was wrong about this OS. My laptop hard drive failed and while it is being repaired under warranty I was forced to use a netbook I have in the house. At first I installed Windows 8 release preview and it just really sucked. I really hate that OS. So I installed Unity even though I use Kubuntu on my laptop. You know I really think the default look is ugly. I do not like ambiance but I installed Elementary and tweaked it a bit. Made the Global menu stay on all the time put the launcher on autohide. It really functions great on this netbook. Makes much better use of the small screen. It has made this netbook a joy to use. I'm gonna have to try it alongside my kubuntu install when I get my laptop back. I am not sure how it works on bigger screens. I like all the apps using full screen on the netbook but I don't think so on my laptop and I think that is what is making this so nice right now.

---

### Post by lancest on 2012-08-29
Unity
[LIST=1]
[*]More screen estate
[*]Keyboard emphasis- more efficient/fun
[*]Global Menu- space saving & attractive
[/LIST]

Back from a week of Kubuntu.
I prefer simple.

Using- Unity Glass to beautify my launcher(s).

---

### Post by marianojoey on 2012-08-29
Sorry, but that's not my experience. I upgraded Lucid to Precise (I only use LTS) and changing from Gnome2 to Unity was a shock at first, and annoying later (seriously, I use a desktop, not a tablet, that design is for small screens, not a 23" one...), which made me install Gnome3 (I didn't like it) and then Gnome2 (for some reason, it wasn't there anymore...). What I liked more about Ubuntu in the past was the fact that you COULD choose a lot of stuff at install/upgrade, but now, it seems the developers decided to go windows style in that they don't ask anything, and change stuff around just because.  :(

I like the way Gnome2 worked (not anymore, sadly). Too bad the Gnome2 for Precise is just a "skin" and not the real one. Seriously, stuff works around, otherwise, I'd go back to Lucid (too much of a hustle to format just for this). Hope the devs make it right the next time.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2012-08-30
> **tehcavil said:**
> I 
KDE is nice but a little too heavyweight for my anemic notebook,.. .
 
KDE uses less or same amount of ram as Unity. you can reduce it even further by using lowfat settings package. KDE ha s aslowdown on start because it has osme services that index your system and it takes them a while to do that. after that it is quite fast and search is also fast. they can be disabled if you dont' care abotu them making system already fast on start.
 
 
> **marianojoey said:**
> Sorry, but that's not my experience. I upgraded Lucid to Precise (I only use LTS) and changing from Gnome2 to Unity was a shock at first, and annoying later (seriously, I use a desktop, not a tablet, that design is for small screens, not a 23" one...), which made me install Gnome3 (I didn't like it) and then Gnome2 (for some reason, it wasn't there anymore...). 
 
Yeah well Gnome pople switched to that interface (with Gnome 3+Gnome shell) and Unity was an attempt to make a better interface to Gnome. Gnome 2 was dropped. Mate was forked form it to continue the development on it.
 
well some people like unity some people don't. i have 4:3 monitors and unity takes to much space. also i don't like it the way it works. i like to have settings available on mouseclick as sometimes i move keyboard foward (or under the table) and use mouse only.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2012-08-31
> marianojoey
I like the way Gnome2 worked (not anymore, sadly). Too bad the Gnome2 for Precise is just a "skin" and not the real one.

If (like many of the Ubuntu users I know) you enjoyed gnome 2, I'd recommend trying [Xubuntu]("http://xubuntu.org/") (XFCE). Very configurable and has been extremely stable on our testing desktop.

I've become a big fan of using what works. Each individual should decide for themselves and not be swayed by others. Some of those I know who use Ubuntu 12.04, truly enjoy it, while others - not so much.

It comes down to that which one needs and expects from their OS. Fanboys aside, IMHO it's one of the things that makes Linux so unique - CHOICES.

Just my $0.02

---

### Post by BigCityCat on 2012-08-31
Unity is a joy on this small screen netbook, but on my laptop with an 18 inch screen I do not want all of my apps maximized. That leads to the problem of the app menu being to far separated from the app. Unity is great on small screens.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-09-01
> **marianojoey said:**
> What I liked more about Ubuntu in the past was the fact that you COULD choose a lot of stuff at install/upgrade, but now, it seems the developers decided to go window$ style in that they don't ask anything, and change stuff around just because.

1. You must be thinking of a different distro. Ubuntu has never asked you questions during the install, about what stuff you want. Ubuntu has always installed a single set of software. It was probably the first mainstream distro to do that. One of the reasons it became popular with new users.

2. Ubuntu's developers didn't "change stuff around just because". The Gnome developers abandoned Gnome 2, and I don't blame them. Ubuntu came up with Unity because they didn't like the direction of Gnome 3's shell, and there were different ideas that they wanted in their desktop.

The Gnome Classic session is made by Gnome developers as a "fallback" for if you don't have 3D acceleration.

3. Unity is great on my 22 inch monitor. It's even pretty good on my 10 inch monitor; now that's something I could never say about Gnome 2. Obviously, not everybody will like everything, but I think a lot of Unity hate has been "OMG it's different!".

---

### Post by blackbird34 on 2012-09-01
> **BigCityCat said:**
> Unity is a joy on this small screen netbook, but on my laptop with an 18 inch screen I do not want all of my apps maximized. That leads to the problem of the app menu being to far separated from the app. Unity is great on small screens.

It is possible to disable the global menu though, you may like that better: see here [http://lifehacker.com/5887462/how-to-disable-ubuntus-annoying-global-menu-bar](http://lifehacker.com/5887462/how-to-disable-ubuntus-annoying-global-menu-bar)

---

