---
title: "11.04 -11.10 a non-starter for my customers"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by repager on 2011-10-17
For many years now I have converted Microsoft customers from XP and now vista/7 to Ubuntu. 
Then comes the 'wonderful' Unity desktop - what are the guys at Canonical thinking?
OK if you just want to open Firefox, type in Libreoffice but finding your way around it - and not installing Ubuntu Classic by default in 11.10!
I would spend half my life helping irate customers
I will install Mint until they come to their senses! - even Windows 8 developer looks more sensible!

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-10-17
Your first mistake was selling customers on the "point" releases. The Long Term Support releases (currently 10.04) are stable and recommended for business use.

OK, you don't like Unity, lots of people don't, but what about KDE, Gnome, LXDE, Xfce, Icewm, Openbox, Ratpoison, etc.? For that matter, what about Mint, Debian, Red Hat, Slackware, SUSE, etc?

If you are going to do this professionally then you need to educate yourself about the wide range of choices available for Linux users and advise your customers accordingly. If you recommend a rapidly-changing, bleeding-ege, unstable distro to customers who want a stable, unchanging, familiar environment then of course they will be unhappy with your recommendations.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2011-10-17
Not a support thread. Moving to Testimonials.

---

### Post by repager on 2011-10-17
Snowpine, nice to see you 'read' messages, I referred to both 11.04 and 11.10 and am well aware of the differences - I also said I would offer Mint as an alternative.
I have been using Linux for nearly twenty years and am well aware of the many distros.
This is not about whether I 'like' Unity; it is whether it is intuitively simple to use for people conditioned to a traditional desktop.
I contend it is not and that Canonical should make switching between 'classic' etc more visible and should certainly not remove Gnome (Ubuntu Classic) from the 11.10 installation.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-10-17
Hi Repager, I am re-reading my post after a cup of coffee and realize I may have been a little harsh. I do not personally use Ubuntu or Unity, so I'm certainly not what you would call a "fanboy" and didn't mean to come across that way. :)

I would contend that "intuitively simple to use" is purely opinion. The "desktop" metaphor (as you probably know) dates to Xerox in the early 1970s. This concept is older than I am, and many users and developers feel it is time to explore alternative types of GUI. (These alternatives stand beside the classic desktop, which Ubuntu still supports, as options, not mandates.) Many of my generation don't even work at "desks" any more!

Certainly in my time with Unity, I found it to be very intuitive and easy to use, much more so than the clunky-yet-"classic" Gnome 2.x. I realize this is purely my opinion of course. I would not expect a first-time user to grasp all the intricacies of Unity in a single sitting, but I think that after a week or a month of using it, most users would catch on. 

You also have to understand that Ubuntu was in between a rock and a hard place when it came to the classic Gnome 2.x because the Gnome Foundation has stopped supporting it and thrown all their efforts in to Gnome 3. The merits of Gnome 3 are a separate conversation, but for whatever reason, the decision was made to develop Unity instead of embracing Gnome 3. If you are going to criticize Canonical for dumping Gnome 2 then you need to be fair and criticize Fedora, SUSE, Arch, because none of them support Gnome 2 anymore either. And a few of the top distros (Slackware, Aptosid, off the top of my head) don't even support Gnome at all.

---

### Post by repager on 2011-10-17
snowpine, fair enough comments, I am considerably older, so command line was the order of the day.
I fully appreciate the problem facing Canonical but as with many new ideas I feel they became so excited with Unity they forgot the need for a smooth transition.
The classic example being from 10.10 to 11.04 - changing the default desktop to Unity instead of letting the customer chose to change - thereby making the change back (if required) easy to see.
Your assumptions about my customers, almost all just individuals using a computer at home is not correct, they like the .10 versions of Ubuntu which are hardly 'bleeding' edge and happily hit the 'version upgrade' in 'Update Manager' getting more support for ipods etc. 
But this time I get <snip> phone calls and all my work to defeat the evil empire unravels!

PS. Only used Gnome as an example did not want to go into KDE XFCE etc.

---

