---
title: "12.10 - quite interesting!"
date: 2012-10-21
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Chdslv on 2012-10-21
I have one partition with Ubuntu 12.10 made lean. It is the updated/upgraded Beta 2.
I played with Unity for sometime on that. Unity actually make me little tired. 

Downloaded Ubuntu 12.10 and installed Gnome-shell 3.6.1 from Ubuntu repos and  uninstalled Unity. This Gnome 3 is the base of Unity anyway, I only needed the Gnome-shell. It worked much better than Unity. I find there is something in Unity that slows down the Gnome 3 underneath. Oh, the Amazon stuff doesn't trouble me, anyway, and Cannonical is a commercial entity.

This time, I also downloaded the Ubuntu Studio. It is based on Xubuntu/Xfce4. I installed Compiz and then Gnome-shell and now I have another Ubuntu-Gnome Remix. I found that this remix works faster than the Ubuntu 12.10 with Gnome-shell. 
[I]
There was no crashes in any of the Ubuntus.[/I] Only once, I had a problem with updating, but that was a server problem. I had no crashes in the Beta 2 with daily updating and upgrading.  I had Alpha and Beta 1 too, and they too didn't crash.:)

---

### Post by Chdslv on 2012-10-22
I noticed one guy, ronniew, sort of whining about the Quantal release, saying it is the worst release up to date. He even mentioned Lubuntu and old hardware. So, I downloaded Lubuntu 12.10 to do an experiment.

I installed Gnome-shell from Ubuntu repos in Lubuntu 12.10. It said it is Ubuntu + LXDE. So, what part of it is Ubuntu and what part is LXDE, I thought.

It didn't pull much installing Gnome-shell (3.6.1) only 54 MB with dependencies, Brasero, Nautilus, etc.

I am writing from that Lubuntu + Gnome 3.6.1. After sometime, I'd uninstall all that is LXDE, and what would I get? Ubuntu + Gnome 3 or Lubuntu + Gnome 3, or Lubuntu - LXDE + Gnome-shell, I wonder.

This Lubuntu + Gnome-shell has a very interesting memory usage and processor usage. Attaching a screenshot.

Take care!:)

---

### Post by Chdslv on 2012-10-22
The Ubuntu Studio didn't have Compiz enabled, just like Lubuntu, but Ubuntu had it to make Unity work, only Ubuntu didn't have CCSM installed. I think Compiz takes lot resources to work, and that maybe the reason Unity is slow.

The lack of Compiz in Ubuntu Studio (Xfce based) and in Lubuntu must be making the Gnome-shell work faster. This would be the same, if one installs Gnome-shell in Xubuntu.

The Canonocal's decision to go ahead with Unity, which needs Gnome 3, and not going ahead with Gnome-shell might be a bad decision. There is a Ubuntu-Gnome remix, a vanilla one, you can download to check which one is faster, Ubuntu with Unity, Ubuntu without Unity, but with the Gnome-shell, or Lubuntu/Xubuntu/Ubuntu Studio with Gnome-shell.

Happy experiences!:)

---

### Post by Chdslv on 2012-10-22
Ubuntu, Lubuntu, Ubuntu Studio and Xubuntu booted up very quickly, and  got installed quicker than 12.04, which went searching for language  packs.

Ubuntu with Unity has Gnome shell underneath. I tested all  four above with Gnome shell.  Lubuntu +Gnome shell uses the least  memory and Xubuntu +Gnome shell uses biggest memory. Ubuntu and Ubuntu  Studio + Gnome shell stayed in the middle.

I've posted the screenshot with Lubuntu earlier. This is with Xubuntu +Gnome shell.

Note: In the earlier Lubuntu +Gnome shell screenshot, Google Chrome was working as in this Firefox is.

---

### Post by Chdslv on 2012-10-23
I just read this;

> Upgrade
It is strongly recommended to do a fresh install however if you prefer to attempt an upgrade instead, first upgrade to Quantal Quetzal 12.10. Then run the following commands:

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-gnome-desktop ubuntu-gnome-default-settings
(make sure to select gdm as default display manager when prompted)


If you were using Ubuntu 12.10 Beta 2, and you want to keep Ubuntu, then you could go this way to get the Gnome experience. 

To get a snappy Ubuntu+Gnome distro, all you have to do is install Lubuntu 12.10 and use Synaptic Package Manager to install Gnome-shell from Ubuntu repos. Of course, you should select gdm. As it is coming from Ubuntu repos, you'd get Nautilus 3.4.2, which is good as you can have twin panes (F3)

I wonder, why I didn't think of this earlier.

Anyway, happy experiences!:)

---

### Post by Chdslv on 2012-10-23
Some more screenshots;
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2073069&page=11](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2073069&page=11)

---

### Post by Elfy on 2012-10-23
Please do not use this section for support questions, bug reports, or debate.

Closed

---

