---
title: "10.04 Not for beginners or non-geeks  update"
date: 2010-08-28
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Bill Wade on 2010-08-28
I just had to come back on here and update you on my experience.  Last I left you with, I was going to try opensuse.  I did; couldn't get a good DVD burned after several tries; I think a bad piece of burner hardware.  Anyway, I went with OS KDE live cd and tried that.  I must say I like the GUI tools and YaST a lot.  The bootloader is so nice for helping configuring boot, etc.  Much better than all the geek terminal text language like ubuntu.  I was sold. Then I started having same dual boot probs.  Finally had to use my ubuntu live cd (yes, I said my ubuntu cd...I know you're all laughing right now) to use gparted and clean up my partitions and then I reloaded ubuntu.  The suse cd would not let me partition from the cd. I have rebooted several times into xp and ubuntu with everything working so far.  Now I'm trying to figure out how to get my printer working (another story) and import my email (another story).  Anyway, full circle back to ubuntu, ha ha.  But I have to say I wish ubuntu had more gui like suse.  Much easier/comfortable for windows generation.  BTW, I got an old del computer from a friend. Computer was totally corrupted and very slow.  I reformatted, reinstalled xp, downloaded only sp2, turned off update software so no more daily 'critical security' updates), downloaded, avast and spybot, and this computer screams.  500mb ram, p4 and it is the fastest computer I have used for surfing and simple stuff I do; boots up immediately).  Granted, I had to download drivers from included dell dvds, but WOW, so easy to install xp.  Really, no comparison to ubuntu.  But I wasn't dealing with partitioning, so...apples and oranges, I guess.  Anyway, if I could get my hands on a good opensuse dvd I really like their gui...for a windows guy.  Thanks.

---

### Post by viralmeme on 2010-08-28
Nonsence ..

---

### Post by dinamic1 on 2010-08-28
> **Bill Wade said:**
> I just had to come back on here and update you on my experience.  Last I left you with, I was going to try opensuse.  I did; couldn't get a good DVD burned after several tries; I think a bad piece of burner hardware.  Anyway, I went with OS KDE live cd and tried that.  I must say I like the GUI tools and YaST a lot.  The bootloader is so nice for helping configuring boot, etc.  Much better than all the geek terminal text language like ubuntu.  I was sold. Then I started having same dual boot probs.  Finally had to use my ubuntu live cd (yes, I said my ubuntu cd...I know you're all laughing right now) to use gparted and clean up my partitions and then I reloaded ubuntu.  The suse cd would not let me partition from the cd. I have rebooted several times into xp and ubuntu with everything working so far.  Now I'm trying to figure out how to get my printer working (another story) and import my email (another story).  Anyway, full circle back to ubuntu, ha ha.  But I have to say I wish ubuntu had more gui like suse.  Much easier/comfortable for windows generation.  BTW, I got an old del computer from a friend. Computer was totally corrupted and very slow.  I reformatted, reinstalled xp, downloaded only sp2, *_**[SIZE=3][COLOR=Red]turned off update software so no more daily 'critical security' updates)[/COLOR][/SIZE]**_*, downloaded, avast and spybot, and this computer screams.  500mb ram, p4 and it is the fastest computer I have used for surfing and simple stuff I do; boots up immediately).  Granted, I had to download drivers from included dell dvds, but WOW, so easy to install xp.  Really, no comparison to ubuntu.  But I wasn't dealing with partitioning, so...apples and oranges, I guess.  Anyway, if I could get my hands on a good opensuse dvd I really like their gui...for a windows guy.  Thanks.

:confused:

---

### Post by Bill Wade on 2010-08-28
Yes, I turned off all the update cr*p that microsoft inundates you with.  It is so fast, now, it is ridiculous.  I use windows firewall, avast antivirus software, and spybot search and destroy, along with firefox and thunderbird.  So far, no problems.

---

### Post by thiebaude on 2010-08-28
lol @ anti virus, firewall etc.

I just returned yesterday from Windows 7, and now I only run 10.04.1 LTS , the only problem I have with 10.04 is ever since it came out the computer cant shutdown, it only restarts, but there is  a work around that. Other wise I have no other problems with it and I have been using Ubuntu since 6.06. It starts quick as anything, I'm doing automatic login since I'm the only person that uses this home computer.The things I missed while I was away with Windows 7, is the freedom of using open source and not letting a company tell me what I can do with my computer.Everything I did on Windows 7 I can do on Ubuntu 10.04.1.All I do is web, email, video, audio.And using firefox is 281 mb out of 2gb, if I were on Windows 7 it would be at least 600 mb out of 2gb, so i'am saving a lot of system resources.Just my experience that's all. :)

---

### Post by Jazzy_Jeff on 2010-08-28
It sounds like you and Windows are a match made in heaven. Enjoy!!

---

### Post by KdotJ on 2010-08-28
lol to come back here just to tell us how much you love Windows. And to air it to a community that really aren't going to turn around and say "hey, you know... this guy's right!"

Good luck with your no security updates lol. And as for instant booting... give it a while,  my XP booting great when there was nothing on there.

Enjoy

---

### Post by Dayofswords on 2010-08-28
> **viralmeme said:**
> Nonsence ..

agreed, the partition part is wrong, it's the second step on an XP install, after hitting F2 i believe to start the install

---

### Post by Jerry N on 2010-08-28
> **KdotJ said:**
> lol to come back here just to tell us how much you love Windows. And to air it to a community that really aren't going to turn around and say "hey, you know... this guy's right!"

Enjoy

The OP didn't ask anyone to say "this guy's right".  This is the Testimonials and Experiences Forum and he shared his experiences with Ubuntu.  It looks like he prefers XP at this point of time and as long as he practices "safe computing", the fact that he does not allow Windows updates is irrelevant.  He has experienced Ubuntu, he knows something about it, and might decide to return to it someday, if folks don't drive him off by insulting his intelligence.  BTW, some Ubuntu updates have turned out to be just as dangerous as Windows updates.  

Jerry

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-08-28
> **Jerry N said:**
> The OP didn't ask anyone to say "this guy's right".  This is the Testimonials and Experiences Forum and he shared his experiences with Ubuntu.  It looks like he prefers XP at this point of time and as long as he practices "safe computing", the fact that he does not allow Windows updates is irrelevant.  He has experienced Ubuntu, he knows something about it, and might decide to return to it someday, if folks don't drive him off by insulting his intelligence.  BTW, some Ubuntu updates have turned out to be just as dangerous as Windows updates.  

Jerry

Citation please.

---

### Post by Dayofswords on 2010-08-29
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Citation please.

all i can think of is xorg breaking during development...

---

### Post by vikramaditya on 2010-08-29
Forsake Avast and Spybot in WinXP and cleave thyself instead to SandboxIE.  Execute thine apps and browsers in virtual isolation, shielded 'gainst evil bits which aboundeth all around us in these perilous tymes! Recover from thy forays only the nuggets that thou desireth and have determined to be untainted.

---

### Post by negativ on 2010-08-29
successful troll is successful

---

### Post by albandy on 2010-08-29
> **Bill Wade said:**
> I just had to come back on here and update you on my experience.  Last I left you with, I was going to try opensuse.  I did; couldn't get a good DVD burned after several tries; I think a bad piece of burner hardware.  Anyway, I went with OS KDE live cd and tried that.  I must say I like the GUI tools and YaST a lot.  The bootloader is so nice for helping configuring boot, etc.  Much better than all the geek terminal text language like ubuntu.  I was sold. Then I started having same dual boot probs.  Finally had to use my ubuntu live cd (yes, I said my ubuntu cd...I know you're all laughing right now) to use gparted and clean up my partitions and then I reloaded ubuntu.  The suse cd would not let me partition from the cd. I have rebooted several times into xp and ubuntu with everything working so far.  Now I'm trying to figure out how to get my printer working (another story) and import my email (another story).  Anyway, full circle back to ubuntu, ha ha.  But I have to say I wish ubuntu had more gui like suse.  Much easier/comfortable for windows generation.  BTW, I got an old del computer from a friend. Computer was totally corrupted and very slow.  I reformatted, reinstalled xp, downloaded only sp2, turned off update software so no more daily 'critical security' updates), downloaded, avast and spybot, and this computer screams.  500mb ram, p4 and it is the fastest computer I have used for surfing and simple stuff I do; boots up immediately).  Granted, I had to download drivers from included dell dvds, but WOW, so easy to install xp.  Really, no comparison to ubuntu.  But I wasn't dealing with partitioning, so...apples and oranges, I guess.  Anyway, if I could get my hands on a good opensuse dvd I really like their gui...for a windows guy.  Thanks.

Enjoy it.
[http://www.exploit-db.com/exploits/14403/](http://www.exploit-db.com/exploits/14403/)

---

