---
title: "Spreading Ubuntu finally"
date: 2008-07-21
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by BLTicklemonster on 2008-07-21
I have installed Ubuntu on two desktop computers and one laptop in the past week. One was on a spare computer a friend of mine has who has always wanted to try Ubuntu and just got a new computer, so she said she was ready to try it out. I dropped it off at her house earlier this evening, and she was like a kid at Christmas, she was so excited. I loaded it up with everything I could find that she'd be interested in. Html editors sql stuff, etc.

The laptop was for a buddy whose wifi never worked. I couldn't get it to work for anything, and I mentioned that my laptop with Ubuntu on it works fine, and he said, heck, I'll try that, go ahead and install it. He's seen me using Ubuntu on my laptop for a couple of years now, and knows how much I like it.

The other is an old machine from work. We have the worst IT department on the planet, and getting things done is a nightmare. Recently we had a blueprint someone had scanned for us and put it in digital format so we could get it and use it. Yes, it was digital all right, but useless to us because it was in .pdf format. We needed the image out of that file so we could do stuff to it to make it more managible for a notebook of systems we do work on, and of course none of us had anything we could edit the .pdf file in. I put the file on a thumbnail drive, opened it on my laptop with Ubuntu on it, got the image out of the .pdf file, saved it to the thumbnail and put it back on the windows machine. It was at that point that it was decided that we'd say to heck with IT, we're putting Ubuntu on a machine. 

(the dude with the laptop is the only variable here. He may or may not stick with it, but so far he's had his laptop 3 days, and he said he's doing fine with it)


I'm posting this because I've been using Ubuntu for about 3 years now and have been bragging about it, but never would dare to talk anyone into using it out of fear that they might have problems and overwhelm me with request for help, and I just wanted to say, "I finally got through to some people!! Yay!!!"

---

### Post by L815 on 2008-07-21
I haven't used Linux that long although (probably 3/4 of a year all together), but at my college, I find that my boasting about Linux brings a ton of discussion (studying software engineering).

I encounter Xp/Vista, OSX, and rarely Linux users, but I have been successfully responsible for a few of my classmates to make the switch if not, dual boot. 

All so far have been very happy with their experiences. One guy was even repulsed about Linux because of an old experience with it. I then told him it has changed a lot (Ubuntu), and now is better than ever.

He then that week installed Ubuntu and has wiped off XP (which would let his pc just overheat). He was so impressed that Ubuntu would automatically shut down his pc and not let him boot (with warning message) when his desktop would overheat, until his pc was left to cool down.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-07-21
it's about time you did something other than being an office-chair potato. (just kidding)

it's good to hear you've reached out a little bit, and spread the word. keep up the good work and watch out, it can be addictive.

btw, every time i see your avatar, it screams: "make it so number one!"

---

### Post by motang on 2008-07-21
Haha good job, I have been doing the samething myself. I have been a Ubuntu use for like 4 and half year (I started using it after the second release). I got couple of friends using it, and at my school (at the computer science department) we hand out Ubuntu CDs to whoever wants them. I have also got one of my co-worker into Ubuntu, I installed and set it up for him with the programs he likes on a older computer and he by himself isntalled it on another computer.  I also have another co-worker who is interested in it but isn't ready to take the plunge, I told him is a great OS and his wife can use it as she likes to play flash games and visit MySpqce.

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2008-07-21
cool - I do my part, sometimes, when it suits me, if I have a cd, or even if I don't.

maybe

---

### Post by BLTicklemonster on 2008-07-21
I talked to the first person mentioned today. She is totally blown away, and was talking about how many ways Ubuntu is better than Vista. She loves it! The fellow with the laptop is chugging along nicely and enjoying it. The box from work is sitting behind my desk hooked up. I'll be seeing about installing some open source GIS mapping software to see if I can use any of them with the files generated by our ARC GIs mapping software. I'm in contact with out GIS guy about what files I need to get on the computer to attempt to open them and see who I do. Wish me luck, it could mean a difference at work when you consider the amount of money it costs us to use ARC.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-07-21
keep us abreast of the situation. good luck and godspeed.

---

