---
title: "9.04 is the best version of this software yet!"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by VoodooLoveDog on 2009-04-27
I just wanted to take a moment to extend a hardy two thumbs up for the latest Ubuntu release. I've loaded it on about 4-5 different machines of various age and spec and in each instance whether it was an upgrade or a fresh install, the software performed/installed flawlessly. 

For one, the software is much much faster than it's predecessor. I loaded on an old Dell D610 laptop and didn't see much speed improvement, but on new HW, there is a world of difference. BTW, thank you thank you thank you for fixing the hibernation issue. It hibernates with no problems now. 

Great release, keep up the good work.

Oh, one minor complaint which is totally subjective. I really like the new login screen but it seems slightly out of place with the default Human desktop look. The New Wave desktop appearance fits with it much better, I personally think New Wave should have been the default. But again, desktop/login screen beauty is in the eye of the beholder.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2009-04-27
did you use ext3 or ext4?

nice to hear you like it.

---

### Post by Comhra on 2009-04-27
I've been using since Feisty now and JJ is easily the best Ubuntu yet.  It's a pleasure to work in such a great environment.

---

### Post by ukripper on 2009-04-27
Indeed the best!!

---

### Post by jayanramesh on 2009-04-27
Certainly become addict to it and unquestionable speed,reliability and performance.Even it runs faster carrying windows at its back.

- Jn.

_________________________

__intel core 2 quad-Q 9400 2.66 Ghz,Intel DG 43, 4Gb  RAM 800 MHz,HDD 260 GB

---

### Post by VoodooLoveDog on 2009-04-27
On the laptop, I upgraded from 8.10 -> 9.04 so it's still running ext3. I'll go back and put a fresh copy of 9.04 when I have time. I just have so much installed/configured on the machine to blow it out of the water now. 

I have an old Shuttle breadbox that didn't have a ton of stuff on it, so I took the opportuntity to install fresh and use ext4. There is a significant speed difference on the machine from 8.10 using ext3. 

The few other machines were Dell's of varying age. All of them I installed ext4. The newer Optiplex 755 w/2GB of RAM screams. I had the beta build of Win7 on that machine. Ubuntu is the much faster OS between the two. Although I will say the Win7 install wasn't bad. 

I'd also like to add that one of more frustrating issues I ran into with older Ubuntu versions was the issue with switching monitors. If I installed the OS using one monitor, then switched to a different monitor, I had to go and monkey with xorg.conf in order to get the second one to show the splash screen. 9.04 seems to do a better job at detecting and adjusting the display.

---

### Post by dexter9 on 2009-04-28
Right that it's the BEST.
The boot time decreased SOOOO MUCH.
I'm using EXT4, so FAST!
I use Ubuntu as the 2nd OS since 6.06.
As it turned to 8.10 I started to use it as mainly, just use "WIN" to play and MSN (sometimes).
I can't wait to start to help community programming (but my university's schedule doesn't allow it).
Congratulations Ubuntu Team, you've done it.
Just NEXT, NEXT, REBOOT, FINISH.
Things I still think you can improve:
Perfomance (Arch is still faster)
Looks (Mint is a little better).
A good MESSENGER/ICQ (aMSN still don't do it all)
Advanced Compiz Configurations to install WITH UBUNTU.
They're all little things. :D
Thanks again, good work :D

---

### Post by maheshjr2000 on 2009-04-28
Dexter just dont try to delete anything ;) Ext4 has some problems with it.

---

