---
title: "An Ubuntu Journey: Diaries of a Linux Guy in a Windows world"
date: 2006-05-11
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by alxjl on 2006-05-11
It's been awhile since i signed up for these forums and i guess it's about time i made my first post to stir things up. I've always loved the PC. My first PC's were an Apple IIe and a Commodore. I'd spend countless hours playing games on them, and programming in BASIC and FORTRAN. Yes, i go way way back to those days of the IBM punchcards, to those big floppies, and where servers took a whole room with all the strange noises. It's different now. I am no longer in college. I no longer program. I took a different route to computing nirvana. I chose hardware engineering. Along the way, i've used Windows 3.0, Windows 3.11 for Workgroups at work. I never had a desktop at home till 1998 when i rekindled my interest in operating systems by custom building my first PC for modern times using Windows 95. I had to put up with it's bugs, BSOD's, and vulnerabilities. I had no choice. It was the only OS i knew. Now, 2 wives and 4 kids after, i've finally found an OS of my choice. Ubuntu. I actually started tinkering with Linux in 2001, after accidentally coming across a single page in a Windows dominated PC mag which featured Linux. I eventually got a copy of Red Hat Linux and got it dual-booting with Windows in no time. I had problems, but luckily for me, there was an apt and synaptic version of debian for redhat. I happily plodded along with my new linux OS till one day it crashed on me for no reason at all, bringing along with it all my saved data and installed programs. I never bothered to reinstall after that debacle, knowing that it was just a start for me, the beginning of my journey into the OS known as Linux. Over the next couple of years, i proceeded trying out almost every single Linux Distro i could get my hands on. LiveCD's, compact Linux versions, everything. Name it, i've tried it. Linspire, when it was still called Lindows, Mandriva, when it was still Mandrake, Slackware, Gentoo, Debian as well as Knoppix, and even the UNIX variant FreeBSD, OpenBSD and Solaris. Redhat through all it's desktop versions up until support for Shrike ended. And before Ubuntu's time, i had Fedora Core on it. And all the while i was getting into Linux, i was also being drawn in by Microsoft, starting with my joining Technet, and religiously attending all it's events. I thought i had no choice since my company used Windows and proprietary software in general, and training in it was an absolute prerequisite. Every Microsoft training and seminar felt like i was slowly being lured by the force. All these changed last year when i accidentally came across a blog that mentioned Ubuntu Linux in passing. Curious as i was, i signed up for Shipit, and while waiting for it to arrive, i downloaded an iso image off it's website by dial-up which took almost a week. The effort was worth every single bit and i proceeded to boot Ubuntu alongside my WinXP and Fedora Core. Breezy did not disappoint and lived up to it's namesake. I spent the next two months configuring, installing via apt-get, and compiling what needed to be compiled. My Ubuntu Breezy didn't come off the box as perfect as compared to other distro's claims, but i found out later that the community behind the forums was one hell of a collective effort. In a short span of time, i was able to evolve my ubuntu into something that i could control to suit my own needs. It empowered me with tools to make computing free and easy. When i was in the Microsoft world, my speciality was securing the network. Ubuntu and Linux in general showed me the kind of security i wanted and needed. I eventually wiped off my WinXP at home, without my mom and sister's knowledge, since they were also using it to surf the web etc. I literally fooled them into thinking they were still in Windows by making them use open source software i installed on 
XP like Firefox, OpenOffice, and the Gimp. I just recently told them that they've been using Ubuntu for a while now, and even my youngest son took to linux like a duck to a pond. Goes to show that there is life after Windows. Last December i received my Shipit CD's just in time for a Linux orientation seminar for a local college here. The students lapped it up after an exhausting 3hr talk, and after a barrage of questions. Never in my entire life have i encountered such an experience. All the Ubuntu CD's i gave to them with the advice never be afraid to try new things and continually learn to evolve. Such is Ubuntu's "Humanity To Others" philosophy. To all the guys in this great forum, thanks a lot. Perhaps i may never get to post that much but please be comforted by the fact that i preach most of your guides out here and i'm currently doing my share to spread the word. I remember one forum in which a guy talked about ubuntu being a "cult" thing. Maybe he was right. And right now i feel like an evangelist. An Ubuntu Linux evangelist who has been Windows-sober since October 2005.

---

### Post by isotonic on 2006-05-12
.

---

### Post by mostwanted on 2006-05-12
It's great to hear these conversion stories and I really like how you've spread the word of Ubuntu so succesfully.

You're right about the community. For grassroots efforts like a completely free Linux distro, community is everything. Ubuntu is a fine example in this case, since it's popular almost entirely because of its great community (also because of the sync with Gnome releases obviously).

Personally, I think it comes from the wide scope of users using Ubuntu. With Ubuntu it became "legal" for both power users and newbies to use the same distro.

---

