---
title: "12.04 + MATE = Thumbs up!"
date: 2012-08-15
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by ThomWilhelm on 2012-08-15
When I upgraded to 11.10 I posted that I was very unhappy with it so I went back to 10.04:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1883451](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1883451)

My main gripes were with the actual unity interface which I still am not a fan of. Anyway, I was quite happy with 10.04 but had noticed that my laptop always seemed to be "running hot" even when I was just browsing around on Firefox. With the fans it made it sound like a helicopter taking off, even though system load was low, which is quite embarrassing when you go to a public library for example! :(

I have a HP Pavilion dv6 and had seriously considered purchasing a new machine recently as I thought maybe it was starting to die. But after reading around on the internet I found some information about 12.04 having some improvements with compatibility with these laptops, with the latest kernel updates and firmware.

I had heard a lot about the MATE desktop lately, for those who still like the Gnome 2 look.

[http://mate-desktop.org](http://mate-desktop.org)

I have upgraded this afternoon to 12.04 and MATE and my laptop is now running around 10c cooler and the fans are hardly making any sound at all. It's honestly like a brand new machine! Just wanted to say thanks!

---

### Post by kimberlite on 2012-08-15
I can understand your aversion to unity. (Personally I use gnome-shell and I am quite satisfied with it.) Do not forget update your OS in your profile :-).

---

### Post by moribashi on 2012-08-15
Did you install MATE 1.4? Can you provide How-To? I'd like to try it also. :)

---

### Post by ThomWilhelm on 2012-08-15
> **moribashi said:**
> Did you install MATE 1.4? Can you provide How-To? I'd like to try it also. :)

Go here:

[http://mate-desktop.org/install/#ubuntu](http://mate-desktop.org/install/#ubuntu)

Assuming you are using 12.04, you can follow the instructions from "Ubuntu Precise Pangolin (12.04) repository" onwards. The nice thing is that you can still try using Unity if you want to, so whilst I don't like it I can at least assess the latest changes to see if it improves the usability for me.

I don't seem to be able to change my Ubuntu version as I haven't posted 50 times yet... I have looked briefly at Gnome shell but haven't tried installing it myself, it's on my to-do list...

---

