---
title: "12.04... With MATE!"
date: 2012-04-30
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Penguinnerd on 2012-04-30
I've been testing Ubuntu 12.04 for quite awhile now. I've been testing Unity since 11.04 was in Beta. (Actually, I tried it as a netbook interface in 10.10!)

I've been thoroughly unhappy with Unity the whole time, and never erased my 10.04 partition. (I still won't!)

I've tried to get used to Unity. I can't.
I've tried to reconfigure Unity. I can't.
I've waited for Unity to attain the flexibility that Linux users deserve. It won't.

However, I've now tried the Mate desktop environment for the first time, and I like it!

It's every bit as good as Gnome 2. The gnome-panel thingy in the Ubuntu repos is simply inadequate. XFCE is good, but less easy to configure.

Mate is identical to Gnome 2, the desktop that convinced me to completely switch to Linux in the first place.

Although not strictly "Ubuntu", I'm actually enjoying 12.04 this way. 

I really hope this Mate project sticks around.

I'll see how it's doing in a year when 10.04 loses support.

---

### Post by Version Dependency on 2012-04-30
> **Penguinnerd said:**
> Although not strictly "Ubuntu", I'm actually enjoying 12.04 this way. 

It's still very much "strictly Ubuntu."  You're free to run any DE/WM out there on Ubuntu (or no DE at all)...it's still Ubuntu.

Glad MATE is working well for you.

---

### Post by Penguinnerd on 2012-04-30
> **Version Dependency said:**
> It's still very much "strictly Ubuntu."  You're free to run any DE/WM out there on Ubuntu (or no DE at all)...it's still Ubuntu.

Glad MATE is working well for you.

Okay, maybe I missed the technicality... I guess what I mean is that it's not really a supported DE, not even in the repos.

But I'm glad it's out there, and I hope it's here to stay.

---

### Post by realitykid on 2012-05-01
I am using MATE and Linux Mint 12 on my Pentium 4. :) It works great and doesn't use too many resources. On my main laptop, I use Cinnamon and Mint 12, since the laptop is far more capable. But, right now, I am using my Pentium 4 as my main machine to see if I can do it. :) So far so good.

---

