---
title: "11.04"
date: 2011-05-09
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by brett- on 2011-05-09
Canonical has just laid their Vista.

I have spent two days using 11.04 and have concluded that Unity is the worst possible desktop ever, bar none.  It successfully strips all granularity and does it in such a way as to **** off the the seasoned Linux user to such a degree he may become a Windows 7 user.

Canonical should not attempt to develop a desk top environment or file management system.  That should be left to the pro's at Gnome, KDE and Nautilus.

Canonical should concentrate on packaging and branding and nothing else.

I can see no acceptance of Unity in the enterprise environment.  I know there are hopefuls who insist that it will get better, but the fact is that the quickest route between two points is a straight line - not a right click, left click followed by a bunch of superfluous icons.  The unity interface is not productive and seems counter to a main Canonical mantra of extending the useful life of existing hardware.

The questions is - what distribution to migrate to from here?  The good news is the rich Distro landscape.

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-05-09
Moved to Testimonials and Experiences.

Thanks for sharing.

---

### Post by donato roque on 2011-05-10
> Canonical should not attempt to develop a desk top environment or file management system. That should be left to the pro's at Gnome, KDE and Nautilus.

The pro's at GNOME produced Gnome 3.0. I'm testing Fedora 15 with Gnome 3.0 right now. If you hate Unity, you will hate Gnome 3.0 too.

---

### Post by donato roque on 2011-05-10
I like the Unity launcher. Best dock, functionally and aesthetically, I've ever used. I've used Docky and AWN.

I like that they got rid of the gnome panel and replaced it with a panel with window titles and menus. Gnome 3.0 panel waste too much vertical screen space. Unity's panel is more efficient.

I like that compiz effects and settings still work with Unity. I'm not sure if I'm using proprietary Nvidia drivers right now. If the rumor is true that Unity is already using open source graphics driver now,that's kind of nice to know. Why would they want to keep quiet about that?

I like the Overviews. Type Superkey+S, you get an overall view of all your workspaces. Type Superkey+W, you get an overall view of all open windows. Unfortunately this Overview stops there. It would rock my world if I can use my arrow keys around the window icons. Suggestion: grey out the unfocused window icon, put titles over the window title, raise the focused window. 

I don't use the Dash and Lenses much. I figured if you want me to use them they should be easier to configure or customize.

I just realized that Unity is so much friendlier to users on keyboard mode than users on mouse mode.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-05-10
> **brett- said:**
>  
The questions is - what distribution to migrate to from here? .
 
you can stay in the same distro and use different DE, such as KDE or XFCE.
or you can switch over to another one completely (hough you will have to stay away from Gnome in those as well). Such a Fedora or i hear OpenSUSE 11.4 has a very nicely implemented KDE.
 
Unless if Linux Mint stays with 2.x Gnome and develops it further which is quesitonable.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2011-05-10
What about Debian Stable? Won't that stay with Gnome 2 for a few years? Or have I got that wrong?

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2011-05-10
Hey I felt the same as you for awhile!
"Unity? WTF?" "Im leaving Ubuntu"

Then i put myself back together and gave it one last , honest try..
and Ive been using it since! :D

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-05-10
> **Irihapeti said:**
> What about Debian Stable? Won't that stay with Gnome 2 for a few years? Or have I got that wrong?
 
yeah, that's another solution. probably it will be supported until 2014 or 2015. hasn't been announced yet i believe.

---

### Post by madmax75 on 2011-05-10
You don't like a specific desktop environment, so you are going to change to another distribution :confused:

I personally don't like KDE/Kubuntu one bit - just too bloated with eye-candy that slows my laptop down unnecessarily + heats up the processors like they were put on an open flame - but that doesn't make me switch to Fedora.

---

### Post by Kramer2010 on 2011-05-10
> **brett- said:**
> Canonical has just laid their Vista.

I have spent two days using 11.04 and have concluded that Unity is the worst possible desktop ever, bar none.  It successfully strips all granularity and does it in such a way as to **** off the the seasoned Linux user to such a degree he may become a Windows 7 user.

Canonical should not attempt to develop a desk top environment or file management system.  That should be left to the pro's at Gnome, KDE and Nautilus.

Canonical should concentrate on packaging and branding and nothing else.

I can see no acceptance of Unity in the enterprise environment.  I know there are hopefuls who insist that it will get better, but the fact is that the quickest route between two points is a straight line - not a right click, left click followed by a bunch of superfluous icons.  The unity interface is not productive and seems counter to a main Canonical mantra of extending the useful life of existing hardware.

The questions is - what distribution to migrate to from here?  The good news is the rich Distro landscape.

I agree with your Vista comparison to some degree, only 11.04 doesn't crash or take five minutes to boot while it loads its services (mines about a minute, used to be 30 secs with 10.10).

However I'm going to stick with it till 11.10 to see if there's any improvement in functionality.  Until then I'm afraid I've had to install Cairo Dock as a temporary measure, thinking about why couldn't they have put the unity bar along the bottom and given it some configurability?

In the meantime take a look at this, it gives some insight into what the hell was going on in the developers minds prior to the release of Unity.

[http://www.jupiterbroadcasting.com/7902/jono-talks-natty/](http://www.jupiterbroadcasting.com/7902/jono-talks-natty/)

---

### Post by johnnybgoode83 on 2011-05-10
Having tried Natty, I have to agree that it is Ubuntu's 'Vista moment'.  It was on my laptop for an hour before I got annoyed and reinstalled Maverick.  The thing I hate most is the fact they have added 2 or 3 clicks to do the simplest of tasks.  
 
Also, I am not a fan of Gnome 3 as I do not like the direction it is taking.  There was nothing wrong with Gnome 2 and I may have to switch to KDE.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2011-05-10
[> ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=839953")[brett-]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=839953")
The questions is - what distribution to migrate to from here?  The good news is the rich Distro landscape.

Thank you for sharing your experience and feedback regarding 11.04. For  every negative thread (posted in this section) targeting the new  release, a handful of user are immediately reacting to defend it. I  prefer to recognize your choice. As, I believe that's one of the true benefits of Linux.
 
IMHO, the decision of which OS to use (for individual use) is a personal  choice and as you indicated the distro landscape is rich with options.  Sorry you found the release unacceptable and hope your migration is a  successful one. 

Good Luck with your search.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-05-11
You've not spent enough time using 11.04.

It's like learning to ride a bike. It took me a week or longer to learn to ride a bike (I was 18 or 19 at the time). If I'd quit after two days, I'd never have learnt.

The reason it took a week was not because bicycles are terrible, but because they're sufficiently different to anything I'd ever done before, including driving a car. It took a while to get used to. And now that I can ride my bike, I quite enjoy it.

Give it a week or two. Try using the keyboard to find and launch programs; that's how I used to use Gnome and Unity improves the speed of that even further. Also, try dragging files to Unity launcher programs to open the files rather than right-clicking and "Open With".

---

### Post by buddhuu on 2011-05-11
> **3rdalbum said:**
> You've not spent enough time using 11.04.

It's like learning to ride a bike. It took me a week or longer to learn to ride a bike (I was 18 or 19 at the time). If I'd quit after two days, I'd never have learnt.

The reason it took a week was not because bicycles are terrible, but because they're sufficiently different to anything I'd ever done before, including driving a car. It took a while to get used to. And now that I can ride my bike, I quite enjoy it.

Give it a week or two. Try using the keyboard to find and launch programs; that's how I used to use Gnome and Unity improves the speed of that even further. Also, try dragging files to Unity launcher programs to open the files rather than right-clicking and "Open With".

This has been my experience. Hated Unity at first but after a few days of persevering (which I thought were just procratination before nuking Unity and going back to Gnome 2 with Docky) I find that Unity is, for my working style, actually pretty efficient and effective.

Sure it took some getting used to, but so what? All new stuff does.

I'm very happy with Natty and Unity. Both are working fine for me. Call me crazy, but so far I *seem* to perceive less instability in practical terms than I experienced with Maverick - and both have been many times more solid than any flavour of W*ndows I ever tried. 

I totally hate W*n7 which the IT dept have installed on all PCs at work. In fact, I have my Natty/Unity laptop on the desk next to the office PC and do most of my work on the laptop.

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2011-05-11
> **johnnybgoode83 said:**
> Having tried Natty, I have to agree that it is Ubuntu's 'Vista moment'.  It was on my laptop for an hour before I got annoyed and reinstalled Maverick.  The thing I hate most is the fact they have added 2 or 3 clicks to do the simplest of tasks.

You could have saved yourself a lot of time by keeping 11.04 and switching to the "Classic Desktop" mode.
 
> **johnnybgoode83 said:**
> Also, I am not a fan of Gnome 3 as I do not like the direction it is taking.  There was nothing wrong with Gnome 2 and I may have to switch to KDE.

I made that switch and am likely to stay with KDE for some time. Some of KDE's applications are most impressive and contain features that the Gnome equivalents do not. Unfortunately, Kubuntu's default splash screen, wallpaper and default theme put a lot of users off. But one of KDE's great strengths is the ability to customise just about everything. I have spent quite a bit of time getting Kubuntu looking like I want it to.

I wish more people were aware of Kubuntu and Xubuntu and were willing to give them a try but most of the posts that I've read recently seem to be of user's not liking Unity and reverting back to Lucid/Maverick or switching to another distribution entirely. :(

---

### Post by tmette on 2011-05-16
I wasn't too happy about the whole Unity thing either.  However I switched tonight since I'm convinced that they won't have the Gnome2 DE available in 11.10.  So far I've been using Unity for about 3-4 hours and it's growing on me already.  I haven't had any crashes or anything.

I really need to re-theme it though.  :)

---

### Post by brett- on 2011-05-16
That's encouraging that you're having such grand time with Unity. 

 I wonder if there is a way to prevent an application's drop down menu's from appearing in bar across the top of the desktop?  What is with that?  That means I have to make a mouse trip to the top of the desktop to access some feature not controlled by short cuts (or run windows maximized, something that we all must learn to do).

Oh yeah ... that little Gnome application called "Main Menu" does not appear to have an effect on those applications accessed from that little icon containing the "+" symbol on the side bar.

What will Canonical do on future releases for notebooks that don't have 3D hardware blah blah?  No Gnome option even as is given in 11.04?

I tried the 2D lib to get the side bar and the mouse over menu flicker drove me insane.

There is too much goo with this interface.

Bold prediction ... NO ENTERPRISE ADOPTION.

---

### Post by brett- on 2012-04-30
I started this thread one year ago and am back writing this from U-12.04.  Much better than U-11.  I am beginning to appreciate the super key for launching apps.  I found that Ubuntu Tweak, MyUnitity and dconf-editor were able to fix problems such as showing the desk top (bad, bad work flow), returning the path bar to Nautilus (were not idiots), drag-drop organizing of icons on the launcher (let me decide), and ditching recent apps and suggested extras.  I need to get past the psychotic need to minimize windows with the click of a mouse although a predefined shortcut would be a good add.  

The Software Center is a bit bloated so I installed Synaptic.

Nautilus needs to get with the program and put the navigation arrows on the left.  I have not found a way to move them.

I think it is fair to say that Unity is striving to satisfy short cut and touch screen users and may succeed.   Drive on.

---

