---
title: "10.10 rocks"
date: 2011-02-15
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by keefy777 on 2011-02-15
i all i have been a fan of Ubuntu for a while now and had some problems along the way.
I would just like to say this release for me is the best i have used it totally rocks and i would like to take my hat off to all those that designed it and worked hard to get me a system that is awesome.
Thank you guys

---

### Post by lancest on 2011-02-15
Agreed.  Looks better, and faster performance than ever before (and it really kicked into overdrive with that famous speedup script.)
Evolution is 20-30% faster.
Other applications like LibreOffice doing well also, even on a netbook.

---

### Post by johntaylor1887 on 2011-02-15
> **lancest said:**
> Agreed.  Looks better, and faster performance than ever before (and it really kicked into overdrive with that famous speedup script.)
Evolution is 20-30% faster.
Other applications like LibreOffice doing well also, even on a netbook.

That speed up thing is not in 10.10's kernel.

---

### Post by lancest on 2011-02-15
> **johntaylor1887 said:**
> That speed up thing is not in 10.10's kernel.

[This script]("http://www.webupd8.org/2010/11/script-to-automatically-apply-200-lines.html") works great on 10.10 and is actually supposed to be better than the .28 kernel script. 
 I've been running it on 10.10 with 4 machines perfectly for weeks. 
Every application I can think of is faster, especially under load. 
It's your lucky day!

---

### Post by PaulReaver on 2011-02-15
Agreed... ubuntu 10.10 most definetily rocks.


I like positive posts like this about ubuntu.... we usually only see the moaners whining about how its not windows...

cheers for the patch btw

---

### Post by marl30 on 2011-02-15
I know that 10.04 is the LTS, but a lot seems different and better in 10.10 to me. This OS is great. Sometimes I still can't believe I got all this for free. :)

However, I still have to address the comment above about Evolution above. It seem quite slow loading mails to me. I setup my main account in Evolution and had the others in Thunderbird. So far, Thunderbird seems a lot faster. I only had problem getting my Yahoo to work in Thunderbird, while I got it setup in Evolution without any issues.

---

### Post by kn0w-b1nary on 2011-02-16
Ubuntu DOES rock. 10.10 just solidifies that fact. :)

---

### Post by jnguyen on 2011-02-16
I totally agreed. Thanks to everyone who made this happened.
jvn:)

---

