---
title: "8.04 to 8.10 - big improvement"
date: 2009-01-02
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by scary_jeff on 2009-01-02
Hi

Just wanted to say how impressed I am going from Heron to Ibex on my Thinkpad T42. 8.04 was impressive, I barely used windows after installing it, but there were quite a few thinks I had to do in the terminal to get everything working properly. Desktop effects, nightmares with ATI drivers (I understand that proprietary drivers are out of the developers hands), keyboard layout issues, compiz eating all the special keys, and more. All solvable, but it just felt like a lot of things weren't quite there on my system.

I got a bigger hard drive and decided to put 8.10 on... wow, everything worked perfectly first time. The only tiny thing I had to change was to not prompt for password on resume in gconf-editor, but that was easy. I haven't bothered with windows at all this time.

Excellent.

Also what a great and helpful community and valuable resource this forum is. Almost everything I want to do has a solution somewhere here. Thankyou all.

---

### Post by armandh on 2009-01-02
remember

see one

do one

teach one

a little proselytizing won't hurt

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-01-02
> **armandh said:**
> 
a little proselytizing won't hurt

Proselytizing is a very, very bad thing.  It doesn't lead to any permanent decisions - short of brainwashing - and all you need is even the briefest glance at the most well-known group to use it and how dangerous they have become over the last 2,000 years.  

Inform, yes.  Educate, yes.  But proselytizing necessitates pushing your words, beliefs, ideas on another person, and it could very easily get you punched in the mouth.

It ought to get you punched in the mouth.  You should know better.  :P

But if it comes up...Ubuntu is definitely worth mentioning.  :wink:

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2009-01-02
> jrock612
Inform, yes. Educate, yes. But proselytizing necessitates pushing your words, beliefs, ideas on another person, and it could very easily get you punched in the mouth.

  	 	 	 	 	 	  armandh may simply be inferring to recruitment. As in recruiting - not necessarily forced conversion and armandh did use the phase “a little”. Agree that forcing one's beliefs onto another is fundamentally wrong, I doubt that's what armandh's was suggesting, at least I hope not.:-k

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-01-02
> **Tamlynmac said:**
> armandh may simply be inferring to recruitment. As in recruiting - not necessarily forced conversion and armandh did use the phase &#8220;a little&#8221;. Agree that forcing one's beliefs onto another is fundamentally wrong, I doubt that's what armandh's was suggesting, at least I hope not.:-k

I know.  :)  But it my mind recruiting doesn't work, either. People have to want to switch to Ubuntu.

At least, that's my opinion.  But I don't want to get into a battle semantics.  :)

---

