---
title: "12.10 is utter garbage."
date: 2013-03-24
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by BuddyThirteen on 2013-03-24
I don't know what happened with recent updates or whatever, but I can't get through a single session longer than five minutes without seeing "System Problem Detected" -- the only options are "Cancel" and "report" and report is useless, since the reporting program then just also crashes. Super helpful.

It used to just be my laptop, which was an upgrade from 12.04, which I usually don't do, but I had so many Humble Bundle games installed that I didn't want to have to re-install all of them, so i just did the upgrade rather than a full wipe. Fine, I can accept that, my bad, whatever. Doesn't seem to be a big deal.

But now my TV is doing it, too. And WAY worse. Like twenty of those things pop up on startup. And it's literally just a default install of Ubuntu 12.10, complete format, with nothing else installed except Handbrake. Most of them are the completely useless "problem light" things which have no helpful information, but some are just weird little windows with nothing in them, and they're all tiny. Basically just a 30px title bar with an empty grey bar below it where a window should be.

I've felt all along that 12.10 felt like untested beta crap, with weird graphical glitches that weren't present in 12.04. But this has gotten ridiculous. Why do they keep rolling out this untested garbage?

Is anyone else having these problems? 

The laptop and the TV are completely different brands, with completely different hardware (in fact, the laptop doesn't even *have* a graphics card), in fact I don't even think they have the same brand processor (I think the TV is AMD, and the lappy is Intel, but I'm not sure on the TV).
If you want me to post my specs, I can, but really I'm more interested in whether anyone else is getting these sorts of problems.
Is this really the sort of quality control that we get now? Anyone know what's causing it? Surely I can't be the only one...

---

### Post by BuddyThirteen on 2013-03-24
Oh, and if left alone, the screensaver eventually freezes up and becomes non-responsive. Which is awesome, since it's a cheap screen prone to burn-in. Have to do a manual shutdown (hold the power button) in order to get anywhere.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2013-03-24
moved to testimonials

---

### Post by claracc on 2013-03-25
> **BuddyThirteen said:**
> Oh, and if left alone, the screensaver eventually freezes up and becomes non-responsive. Which is awesome, since it's a cheap screen prone to burn-in. Have to do a manual shutdown (hold the power button) in order to get anywhere.

If you are using a LCD or LED monitor, you don't need to use screensaver to avoid the burn image effect since it only esxists in old CRT monitors.

It is better to use power management software to put the screen black when not used.

---

### Post by sanderj on 2013-03-25
> **BuddyThirteen said:**
> I don't know what happened with recent updates or whatever, but I can't get through a single session longer than five minutes without seeing "System Problem Detected" -- the only options are "Cancel" and "report" and report is useless, since the reporting program then just also crashes. Super helpful.

There is a third way: move the error message to the side. It will avoid you get into the endless loop of error message popups. ;)

That's what I did on 12.10 which showed the same problems as you have. A few weeks ago I did a fresh install of 13.04 daily, and that is without problems.

> **BuddyThirteen said:**
> 
But now my TV is doing it, too. 


You have TV running Ubuntu?! Cool!

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-03-25
No, I'm pretty sure your laptop has a graphics card.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2013-03-25
> **BuddyThirteen said:**
> Oh, and if left alone, the screensaver eventually freezes up and becomes non-responsive. Which is awesome, since it's a cheap screen prone to burn-in. Have to do a manual shutdown (hold the power button) in order to get anywhere.

mine freezes too. but if i press ctrl+alt+F1 i can access console where i can reboot the maschine (or i could startx to get to a new session).

another option is to use REISUB command so that the reset is not hard.

i don't know why it does that but i think the problem is in the drivers. i've also noticed a strange thing lately (must have been after one of the updates) - the fan (it seems on GPU)  starts spinning fast when computer turn off the monitor (first stage of power management). now that's just weird.

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2013-03-25
Is it?
Or is it just your hardware?

Consider your statement against the flood of positive feedback

---

### Post by coldraven on 2013-03-25
Apart from being a bit laggy when I want the dash, 12.10 is working fine on my HP laptop.
I will wait until 13.04 is released and install it, I hear that it's a bit faster.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2013-03-26
If that 'system problem detected' menu is annoying you, you could do what I did to disable it.

sudo gedit /etc/default/apport

Change enabled=1 to enabled=0, save, done. I'm surprised people aren't making more noise about it because I've gotten it regardless of which hardware I install 12.10 on. It's expected at this point.

Truth be told I'm not the biggest fan of Unity. Not that I think Unity is bad, it's just the dash is a cluttered mess. On both KDE and Gnome 3 I've had better experiences with it. Just my 2c. Good luck with whichever OS or desktop environment you end up on. :)

---

