---
title: "8.10 Initial impressions....not good"
date: 2008-11-12
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by guice on 2008-11-12
For crying out loud, what the hell ...

Okay, so first off; the installer's partitioner is confusing. It kept showing %, wouldn't give me any straight answers unless I went to Manual mode. And in there, it wouldn't tell me if the colours even meant anything. I was installing this on two pre-made partitions in order retain my original WinXP OS. Needless to say, the two default options wanted me to completely wipe my main drive...
Either cause, I got Ubuntu installed simple enough after that.

Upon install, though ... an hour of issues and I'm STILL not fully functional.

Problem 1 - SLOW DNS resolutions. Extremely slow. I muck around with the MTU, DNS resolve, manual IP addresses, eventually DNS resolution works, sometimes. Other times it doesn't.

Problem 2 - Ubuntu just will NOT save my bloody network settings. Every single Reboot, it reverts back to DHCP when I set both of my cards to manual. I now have THREE eth connections ... two eth1 and one eth0. At one time, the Network status icon at top showed 6! eth connections, three of each. 0.o

When DNS resolve works; updates load, but when DNS resolve bugs out, the patcher completely stalls (I have to hit cancel and redo it). I had to disable/reenable the Nvidia driver because it didn't install right after the DNS stalled when downloading the patch.

Problem 3 - Graphical glitches. My title bars will to textureless (slate grey) with no buttons and a glitched line across the top when my mouse random moves in then out of the title bar.

Seriously ... this is the worst Ubuntu experience I've had so far. What's with all these problems? And I hadn't even started to try and use the OS yet! This is all on a fully patched system.

---

### Post by lifestream on 2008-11-12
Yeah... all these issues have been mentioned on the forums and on launchpad bugs already. There's a bunch of HOW-TOS to fix these annoying problems too. Search the forums. 
There are developers working on the fixes too.

Never update to a new distro if you depend on your computer. There is no need whatsoever, Hardy is supported for 3 years.

---

### Post by guice on 2008-11-13
> **lifestream said:**
> Never update to a new distro if you depend on your computer. There is no need whatsoever, Hardy is supported for 3 years.

Oh, don't worry about that. The only thing "important" on this computer is my WoW install, on the XP side. ^_^

I keep all my real important stuff on my MacBook. No need to dirty Ubuntu or WinXP with "work" you know? ha. :)

I'll look around for solutions to the annoyances...all the solutions I mentioned for the slow dns resolution were from forum searching. Although, the sheer *lack* of my network setting getting saved made it really hard to properly troubleshoot/fix the issues. Every "fix" I did got reverted when I rebooted my box. Ugh.

---

### Post by mattthemuppet on 2008-11-14
I know it's not much help, but I've given up on 8.10, just can't get my network working properly, despite spending days and days searching forums and trying workarounds, how-tos, fixes, hacks etc. Now trying to install 8.04. If I can't do that, then back to WinXP it is :(

---

### Post by guice on 2008-11-14
The new network utility is definitely a piece of crap. I don't understand why it was moved to the standard system preferences; it's always been an administrative tool. And even more so: the command line tools require sudo to modify the NICs, but why doesn't this utility? It seems to me they were trying to make things more user oriented and buggered it up.

I did, kinda, get my network working. It's not 100%, still a few DNS lookup stalls, but it works. I did it via the hard editing to networks file in /etc/networks (I think?). And hard coding the DNS servers in /etc/reslov.conf.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-11-14
> 
lifestream
Never update to a new distro if you depend on your computer. There is no need whatsoever, Hardy is supported for 3 years. 	

I question why many people immediately upgrade to a new release and then complain that the new release isn't perfect. As you indicate there's no reason to upgrade to the new release "out of the shoot". Wait until it's updated and the package becomes more stable. I don't recall reading anything when I first installed Ubuntu that mandated I upgrade immediately upon a new release. Sometimes I think many people get overzealous and just can't control themselves. Patience is a virtue, practicing patience is really tough - but is almost always rewarded.

For example:

> 
mattthemuppet 	 		**Re: 8.10 Initial impressions....not good**
 I know it's not much help, but I've given up on 8.10, just can't get my network working properly, despite spending days and days searching forums and trying workarounds, how-tos, fixes, hacks etc. Now trying to install 8.04. If I can't do that, then back to WinXP it is :sad:

IMHO this individual should return to XP. Obviously, not committed to the Ubuntu experience and uses XP as their safety net. Which is fine - if your comfortable with XP and it works for you, then why even consider a different OS. Use what works, there is no need to justify returning to XP. Every OS has it good, bad & ugly, the secert is to use the one that provides you with the best interactive experience, staibility and functionality.

---

### Post by guice on 2008-11-14
> As you indicate there's no reason to upgrade to the new release "out of the shoot". Wait until it's updated and the package becomes more stable.

Hum ... The whole purpose of a full blown public release is to be stable. You're right nobody is forcing you, but have you taken a look around recently? "Update to 8.10!" .. "8.10 released! Update now!" ... "Check out the new 8.10." Yeah, not forcing you, but most definitely pushing for your average Joe to update.

I'm sorry, but I'm going to have to argue against everything you said. The whole purpose of betas and RCs is to make it stable for a full blown public release. 8.10 is full blown public release. It is *suppose* to be completely stable, to the developers' knowledge.

You're giving Ubuntu far too much leeway here. It's something I tell everybody: if you expect Windows to be riddled with bugs, then why the hell do you use it? Now, lets replace that with Ubuntu....

---

### Post by jbysmith on 2008-11-14
> **guice said:**
> Problem 3 - Graphical glitches. My title bars will to textureless (slate grey) with no buttons and a glitched line across the top when my mouse random moves in then out of the title bar.
I've had this for the last few versions of the nVidia drivers with my system, not a game breaker but annoying yes.  (Installing an Emerald theme got rid of *most* of it, some glitches happen with "pulsing" button animations still, but can be disabled in the Emerald manager.)

I'm currently not at home but read over on NVNews.net's forums that there's a 180.06 beta driver now available, and two things stood out.  One is that some users noticed a nice performance boost in some areas, and also the title bar glitching is *supposedly* fixed.  Some users also reported crashing too, but it's a beta.. take it with a grain of salt.  Make sure you know how to remove the driver again just in case. (It's easy.)  I'm definitely going to try it when I get home later. Try it or not, that one's not Ubuntu's fault.  I get the exact same thing with a few other distributions.

The network manager kinda irks me too to be honest.  It looks great if I had to deal with wireless and such, but since my system is on a permanent wired connection, I just remove the thing and hard-code my settings manually. Set and forget it,  I don't need to be told every time I log on that I'm connected.  Need to manually edit the /etc/networking/interfaces and /etc/resolv.conf  files.

---

### Post by exploder on 2008-11-14
> guice wrote: Hum ... The whole purpose of a full blown public release is to be stable. You're right nobody is forcing you, but have you taken a look around recently? "Update to 8.10!" .. "8.10 released! Update now!" ... "Check out the new 8.10." Yeah, not forcing you, but most definitely pushing for your average Joe to update.

I'm sorry, but I'm going to have to argue against everything you said. The whole purpose of betas and RCs is to make it stable for a full blown public release. 8.10 is full blown public release. It is suppose to be completely stable, to the developers' knowledge.

You're giving Ubuntu far too much leeway here. It's something I tell everybody: if you expect Windows to be riddled with bugs, then why the hell do you use it? Now, lets replace that with Ubuntu....

I agree with most of this, especially after reading in The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter this statement.

Leading up to the Ubuntu 8.10 release, Ubuntu developers and quality assurance engineers were very busy sorting bugs. They had to decide what could and should be fixed for the final release, and what would have to be set aside for the moment. They made these decisions by estimating the importance of each bug, identifying whether it was a regression or not, assessing the risk of potential fixes, and by applying their best judgment.

In September, the total number of open bugs in Ubuntu increased by only 70. While an increase doesn’t sound like much of an achievement, you have to consider the fact that in the same time period, 7,872 new bug reports were filed. The remaining 7,802, or over 99%, were resolved before the release.

The news isn’t all good, of course. There are currently over 46,000 open Ubuntu bug reports in Launchpad. Even at this impressive rate of throughput, and even if the team were to freeze all development, and stop accepting new bug reports entirely, it is estimated that it would take over half a year just to sift through the backlog of bug reports already received.

When 8.10 was released, some users were disappointed that it still had a bug which affected them. This is regrettable, but it is also unlikely to ever change. There will never be a release of Ubuntu which is entirely free of bugs, even though every non-critical bug is important to someone.

So, what do we do? 1.Prioritize bug reports effectively. 2.Measure performance objectively. 3.Improve incrementally. 4.Ensure that the most serious bugs are identified an fixed early in development. 5.Communicate about known bugs. 

What all this translates to is that a schedule is more important than quality. Microsoft does not even follow this type of practice. I am a Linux fan but bugs and regressions need much higher priority. Some of the new features in 8.10 do not even work! Why would eject buttons be put everywhere when the CD tray opens and then quickly closes? The new Guest Account feature is buggy also. Microsoft has had that feature for a long time, no one uses it. Until quality becomes the focal point Ubuntu will never have the same user base as Microsoft and Apple.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-11-15
> guice
You're giving Ubuntu far too much leeway here. It's something I tell everybody: if you expect Windows to be riddled with bugs, then why the hell do you use it? Now, lets replace that with Ubuntu.... 

I'm not giving Ubuntu anything. The latter portion of my original response basically makes the same statement.  

> IMHO this individual should return to XP. Obviously, not committed to the Ubuntu experience and uses XP as their safety net. Which is fine - if your comfortable with XP and it works for you, then why even consider a different OS. Use what works, there is no need to justify returning to XP. Every OS has it good, bad & ugly, the secret is to use the one that provides you with the best interactive experience, stability and functionality.



I think we both agree that if someone is dissatisfied with (insert OS name here), why would they continue using it? If Windows meets their expectations use it or if they don't wish to pay MS, use a different Linux distro. If their frustrated with new releases and the desire to upgrade, why use it? There's probably a significant number of analogies that could be made, but the bottom line is - if someone is dissatisfied with an object and they have choices, then why not simply use a alternative object?

exploder 
I'm not one that hopes Ubuntu ever gets the "same user base as Windows". Look what it has done for Windows. I receive the benefit of a free OS and all thats required of me is to learn the system, be patient and always consider my options (OSS). Everything else in my opinion is smoke and mirrors. I actually had a problem installing 8.1 and still haven't. My NVIDIA card had no driver and a popup window informed me that my resolution would only be 800x600. I decided to discontinue the install as 8.04 was fully functional on that system. A reminder to me to be patient and I appreciated the warning. If someone really is dissatisfied with Ubuntu why continue to complain when Canonical hasn't responding adequately (as you infer) - why not just use a different OS?

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-11-15
> **Tamlynmac said:**
> if someone is dissatisfied with an object and they have choices, then why not simply use a alternative object?



because people like complaining.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-11-15
> wolfen69
because people like complaining. 	

I always endeavor to comprehend why people waste valuable time complaining about Ubuntu considering all the available alternatives (Windows, Linux distros, etc). Simply find one that meets you requirements and provides you with the interactive experience you desire. How hard can that be???? I doubt this decision is life threatening or a life changing event. 

So apprently you are right and I have no alternative but to applaud your wisdom.=D>

---

### Post by guice on 2008-11-15
You missed my whole point. My whole point was to explain to you that the general public expected 8.10 to be stable. To load an OS with all these bugs diminishes the public's respect for Ubuntu. Ubuntu's goal is to create a viable alternative to Windows. If it keeps putting schedule ahead of bug fixes, it's going turn into just another Windows.

And here I thought the Ubuntu developers were better than that.

---

### Post by guice on 2008-11-15
> **wolfen69 said:**
> because people like complaining.
"People complain because they care."
I would worry when you don't hear anything.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-11-15
> guice
Ubuntu's goal is to create a viable alternative to Windows.

Can you provide a link to where that is defined by Canonical? I've never seen anything documented by Canonical that makes that statement. Not saying I didn't miss it, only that I've not read it.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-11-15
> guice
"People complain because they care."
I would worry when you don't hear anything. 

Or is it possible that guice is correct - "because people like complaining.". Both opinions may have some merit, I doubt however that either of you are 100% correct, as in a combination of reasons and rational. Attempting to categorize all people that complain into two groups is questionable at best. The question is not should people complain but IMO how people complain. Derogatory expletives and ranting with regards to individual reactions and frustrations tends to be less positive and often is not regarded as constructive feedback.

It's been my experience that complainers are less likely to be objective and tend to target only the negatives. I'm certain few people actually find Ubuntu totally unacceptable and are simply frustrated with specific issues or functions. One advantage to OSS is if a program doesn't meet your expectations, there's generally an alternative (and most are free to try or use). Of course there's always the option of writing your own.

---

### Post by Tryst on 2008-11-16
Same first impression from me as the OP.

Tried installing on my HP laptop but no dice. It constantly lands me in the CLI, no matter what options I try. Since I don't know jack about Unix, using the CLI is limited to directory changes and listing the contents and only then because I have used FTP programs and remembered the commands when logged into unix boxes.

The HP 6910p laptop currently has a totally blank HDD since I want Ubuntu on it to learn how to use unix properly. Ultimately, I want to get rid of Windoze altogether since it's a pile of crap and run a Unix based OS exclusively on all of my PC's at home (yea, I'm a nerd and have 3 PC's at home plus 2 laptops). The HP 6910 I bought from Ebay came pre-installed with Vista which was immediately wiped ready for Ubuntu. It was working perfectly but I didn't want it to run Windows, I bought it specifically for Ubuntu. Over 2 weeks later and I'm still trying to find a way to install Ubuntu on it.

I've tried Mandrake and couldn't get my head around it. I want something with a familiar windows look and feel so I can migrate easily. Mandrake was OK assuming you knew Unix already but as a user totally ignorant of Unix, I was completely lost using it.

So far I am not impressed.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-11-16
Tryst
You may wish to investigate PCLinuxOS. I've heard some good things about it being extremely user friendly.

One thing I don't understand in you comments is the desire to install Ubuntu on your HP 6910p laptop with the objective of learning Unix. Yet later in your comments you state "I want something with a familiar windows look and feel so I can migrate easily." I would suggest if you want to retain a Windows look and feel that you stay with Windows. Your claim that Windows is an inferior OS, but you wish to remain in a that environment - doesn't make sense.

---

### Post by Tryst on 2008-11-16
> **Tamlynmac said:**
> 
Your claim that Windows is an inferior OS, but you wish to remain in a that environment - doesn't make sense.

From a Unix users standpoint that may be right. However, for someone who doesn't know anything about Unix, it's hard to migrate to an OS that has a totally alien look and feel. It's far easier to have an OS that is similar and get to know it. Once the Unix basics are understood, it would be easier to tackle one that is totally different.

Windows -> Debian -> Unix -> :popcorn:
Windows -> Unix -> [-o<#-o

Thanks for the heads up about PClinuxos, I'll dl it now and give it a try. Hopefully, it will be easier to install.

---

### Post by guice on 2008-11-16
> **Tamlynmac said:**
> Your claim that Windows is an inferior OS, but you wish to remain in a that environment - doesn't make sense.

Bingo. This is the very comment that every hardcore user cannot understand. I know, I use to be one of them. But after a while, using all three OS's and understanding *why* Apple OS's get such high reviews, I begin to realize the truth: ease of use; simplicity; lack of problems; lack of annoyances. To put it simply: the little things.
Ubuntu misses the mark on most of these, as well as windows. Why do people hate Vista? "Annoyances." Why do people have Windows? "Problems." If you care enough to make Ubuntu the best ever, how about trying to help solve all these problems instead of complaining over the complainers?

And as I said before, people complain cause they care. The want to see a great OS, but it always falls short of their expectations. When that happens, they complain. Yes, somebody will always find something to complain about; however, when you get a sheer magnitude of complains, it generally means something is truly wrong.

I'm very much in the "complain because I care" department. I was shocked to see a *public release* with so many bloody problems. This only *hurts* Ubuntu's reputation. If you were anywhere near as concerned for Ubuntu's reputation as you are for complainers, you would be complaining, too.

---

### Post by exploder on 2008-11-16
> And as I said before, people complain cause they care. The want to see a great OS, but it always falls short of their expectations. When that happens, they complain. Yes, somebody will always find something to complain about; however, when you get a sheer magnitude of complains, it generally means something is truly wrong.

I'm very much in the "complain because I care" department. I was shocked to see a public release with so many bloody problems. This only hurts Ubuntu's reputation. If you were anywhere near as concerned for Ubuntu's reputation as you are for complainers, you would be complaining, too.

You hit the nail right on the head!

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-11-16
My actually point (which you took out of context) was what's wrong with Windows? He had bashed Windows pretty hard and I was simply questioning why he would stay in an environment he hated? Sorry if you miss understood, I probably worded it poorly - but it was late.

As for complainers - I really don't care if you complain. In all actuality it makes zero difference to me. Complaining is your right and if you feel it's necessary and that your accomplishing anything, then continue. You certainly don't need my approval at least I hope not.:smile:

Enjoy.

---

