---
title: "10.04 lts"
date: 2010-05-17
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Tucatts on 2010-05-17
Hey all, been a long time since I logged on and glad to be back. Was not too happy with the last couple of Ubuntu tries, lol. BUT, I have upgraded to 10.4 on my desktop and did a fresh 10.4 install on my old Dell laptop. BOTH have worked great! Way to go everyone who worked on this, got it right on the money! Wireless worked right away and so has everything else so far. Anyway, thanks again.

---

### Post by Phrea on 2010-05-17
great ! :)

...but 10.4 lts does not compute. ;)
It's 10.04 LTS. :D

---

### Post by Bölvaður on 2010-05-17
> **Phrea said:**
> ...but 10.4 lts does not compute. ;)
my calculator's name is 10.4

---

### Post by overdrank on 2010-05-17
> **Phrea said:**
> great ! :)

...but 10.4 lts does not compute. ;)
It's 10.04 LTS. :D

):P fixed now

Congrats Tucatts and enjoy. :)

---

### Post by ilovelinux33467 on 2010-05-18
enjoy ubuntu :)

---

### Post by s.fox on 2010-05-18
Hello,

I am delighted to hear that everything worked well for you in this release.  If you require assistance with anything that comes up (hopefully it won't) then please start a thread on the forum and I am sure the community will try to assist.

-Silver Fox

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2010-05-18
> Tucatts

Thank you for sharing you feedback and I'm pleased that the new release is meeting your expectations.

Recently, a [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1485011") in the RC reminded us that we shouldn't take exception with a members posting the version number incorrectly. I hope you weren't offended by any responses in this thread. Another blatant reason why this section is not for debate or discussion.

Good Luck and thanks again for sharing. :popcorn:

---

### Post by Tucatts on 2010-05-20
HA, ok you got me, 10.4 LTS it is, lol. Typed it on my laptop and did not notice the lowercase. Really hate laptop keyboards! With summer time getting here I like to sit out on the screen porch with the laptop and the wireless connection with Lucid is at least twice as strong as compared to XP on the same laptop ( dual boot it) and it connects almost instantly. XP has to really think about it for a while and then sometimes decides it's just not worth the trouble to connect, lOL. SO still real happy with 10.4 LTS! Everyone have a great day!:)

---

