---
title: "10.04 The one I have been waiting for"
date: 2010-05-22
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Dr.FrankenMod on 2010-05-22
I have been going back and forth for the last 8 years with Linux. I have tried different distros and I have had nothing but pain. When I heard that 10.04 came out I was ready to give it a try, and so far I have been enjoying the experience. I have to say I like the eye candy, I also like the fact that when Ubuntu needs something it goes out and finds it and lets me know, and I relay like that. I have installed it on different computers and they all just "work out of the box".

Thanks for a great distro

Dr. FrankenMod

---

### Post by 1roxtar on 2010-05-23
I have to say that Ubuntu 10.04 LTS is the one I have been waiting for too.  It has all the features I need and use.  I love the re-branded colors and theme, the MeMenu and many more reasons that I proudly show off my laptop as much as possible.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-05-24
It definitely is turning out to be a great release. Ubuntu FTW!

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-05-24
> **uRock said:**
> It definitely is turning out to be a great release. Ubuntu FTW!

+1

For me, to say it's a great release is an understatement. Kudos to the devs.

---

### Post by kenodlum on 2010-05-24
I have put 10.04 on two machines so far

EeePC 900 clean install

Dell Dimension 3000 desktop upgrade from 9.10

Both have work perfectly.

---

### Post by solwic on 2010-05-26
> **WinterRain said:**
> +1

For me, to say it's a great release is an understatement. Kudos to the devs.

It is an understatement.  10.04 is the fastest and most stable release so far.

---

### Post by ilovelinux33467 on 2010-05-26
10.04 is such a great release had problems with my old laptop ATi card in 9.10 (karmic) when I try and play nexuiz but all fixed in 10.04. Very happy :)

---

