---
title: "8.10 good to go"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by armandh on 2008-10-30
got out the trusty test sled. old but with known working compatible parts.
down loaded the iso, burned a cd, booted from the cd. clicked install. answered the usual questions. [nice display on the partitioning]. minutes later it just works.
and just a few more minutes for flasn and [www.medibuntu.org](www.medibuntu.org) codec's

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-10-31
i can only use the live cd at the moment, as my motherboard is going crazy, and crashes every install of any os installed to a hard drive. but i have enough memory to tweak and install apps. it seems very solid at the moment. no complaints.

---

### Post by armandh on 2008-10-31
> **wolfen69 said:**
> i can only use the live cd at the moment, as my motherboard is going crazy, and crashes every install of any os installed to a hard drive. but i have enough memory to tweak and install apps. it seems very solid at the moment. no complaints.

I had a similar problem of nutso computer
almost dead bios battery was the cause.
YMMV

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-10-31
in my case, it's not the battery. (i wish) i ran mobo diagnostics and found out it is the usb controller and serial port that are no good. but fortunately, live cd's run perfect. it will have to do until i get a new mobo.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-10-31
> **wolfen69 said:**
> i can only use the live cd at the moment, as my motherboard is going crazy, and crashes every install of any os installed to a hard drive. but i have enough memory to tweak and install apps. it seems very solid at the moment. no complaints.

Intrepid is very solid on my machine I have pretty decent specs though.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-10-31
i spoke too soon about about live cd's working perfect. everything now locks up eventually. oh well. at least i have 2 laptops to fall back on.

---

### Post by Comhra on 2008-10-31
That's a pity, Wolf but maybe you can repair it.

---

### Post by aimpau on 2008-10-31
Try disabling the defected parts of the mobo in the bios.

---

