---
title: "10.10 did me in"
date: 2011-01-05
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by harecanada on 2011-01-05
I'm pi##$^%& off!! I had 9.04 working forever. Then I got lured into upgrading to 10.10 and now my system is completely messed and I use it for work. For the first time in 5 plus years I have resorted to loading Windows [Vista] on my system. And worst of all I took an Acer Aspire 5315 laptop which was totally screwed and loaded 10.10 on it and I can't make the thing crash!!! I'm so mad!!!! I hate Windoze. Everybody knows I promote Ubuntu and Linux always and now it's come to this.

---

### Post by akand074 on 2011-01-05
Upgrades always tend to have issues.. especially big upgrades like you just did (going three distributions up). I always recommend doing a full clean wipe and install when updating a distribution.

---

### Post by Dans564 on 2011-01-05
yea next time move your /home to an external and do a clean install.  Thats very unfortunate though :mad:

---

### Post by overdrank on 2011-01-05
Moved to Ubuntu Testimonials & Experiences.

---

### Post by johntaylor1887 on 2011-01-05
> **akand074 said:**
> Upgrades always tend to have issues.
I agree with this. Do a fresh install, and you should be OK.

---

### Post by Sef on 2011-01-06
> I'm pi##$^%& off!! I had 9.04 working forever. Then I got lured into upgrading to 10.10 and now my system is completely messed and I use it for work. 

Did you upgrade to 9.10 > 10.04 > 10.10 or just 9.04 > 10.10? If you did the latter, it would mess up your system.

---

### Post by harecanada on 2011-01-06
I put everything on an external hard drive and did a clean install from a live cd. I didn't do an upgrade. Thing is now even Windows won't load. I think I wrecked something. Does anyone have any suggestions? At this point I just want my system running and nothing seems to be working. I can get a live cd to work but I don't know what to do from there.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-01-06
post in suport part of forums and follow this guide:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422475](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422475)
 
Because saying something is not working, not loading or crashes wont help to troubleshoot. specific event messages on the other hand give a clue.
 
you might also check the botoinfoscript found on sourceforge and post result from it in your support question.
 
btw you porbably need to upgrade grub to get windows to "work".

---

### Post by harecanada on 2011-01-06
Ok mastablasta I'm a bit confused.
post in suport part of forums and follow this guide:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422475](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422475)

Because saying something is not working, not loading or crashes wont help to troubleshoot. specific event messages on the other hand give a clue.
Here is what has been happening: I had been using 9.04 and it was working great for almost a year. I let myself be lured into changing to 10.10. So I backed up what I thought was necessary on an external harddrive. Then I loaded 10.10. It didn't work the first few times.It would freeze up or just not work at all. I kept using the Live CD to update and upgrade using the terminal. Then I finally got it to work and load. I decided to use the system test application and it worked fine . On one test I restarted the computer over 30 times and everything seemed fine . The next morning it wouldn't load and went down hill from there. I tried reloading 10.10 but it wouldn't work after installing. I restarted the system but I couldn't get any farther then the splash page. after getting too frustrated I tried loading 10.04 no luck then Vista no luck. At this point I just want to start over .    
 
you might also check the botoinfoscript found on sourceforge and post result from it in your support question. [I don't know how to do this.]

btw you porbably need to upgrade grub to get windows to "work".[How do I upgrade grub?]

If your willing to help me that would be great.

---

### Post by johntaylor1887 on 2011-01-06
If you can't get any OS to load, it's probably a hardware issue. Hardware does go bad ya know.

---

### Post by Deer Hunter on 2011-01-06
Great to see that you're actually wanting to solve your situation (I'm saying that in contrast to some people who come on here to give a rant and then leave).  However, as this is a Testimonials sub-forum and not a Support forum, you might be better off describing your problems, like you just did, in a Support forum thread.  Best wishes ;)

Deer Hunter

---

### Post by harecanada on 2011-01-06
Thanks but I'm hoping that's not the problem.

---

### Post by harecanada on 2011-01-06
Thanks Deer Hunter. I'll do that.

---

