---
title: "9.04 Smokin FAST!!! WOW!"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by starcannon on 2009-04-23
Dell Inspiron 530 with fresh load of Ubuntu 9.04 64bit, this computer boots from power button press to desktop in around 18 seconds! No tweaks, no custom configuration files, that's bone stock with the ATi driver found in System>Administration>Hardware Drivers.

I'm installing this on my Everex Cloudbook as well, and so far so good, this is the first time the Cloudbook has had fully functional Direct Rendering without artifacts! Wow!

Great job Canonical!

Thanks,

Rob aka starcannon

---

### Post by truthbrush on 2009-04-23
I agree,  just finish the upgrade process and machine is quicker, graphics smoother.  I thought Hardy and Ibex were big steps forward for a novice (at best) user like me but there were still a few niggles.

This really is another huge leap as far as I am concerned, I am sure the purists and IT wizards might have there gripes but I'd say this has just about done for XP which I have been hanging on to for the odd use for about a year now.

Well done to everyone in team Ubuntu, I am sure you will have many more happy users.

:)

---

### Post by SpyroViper on 2009-04-24
> **truthbrush said:**
> This really is another huge leap as far as I am concerned, I am sure the purists and IT wizards might have there gripes

I don't see why they would have any gripes.  Sure the purists can stick to their 'hardcore' distros if they want, but IT wizards should prefer useability and productivity over flashing a hard to use distro.  9.04 is the best ubuntu to date!

---

### Post by Arup on 2009-04-24
If purists had their way, Linux would be dead and burried by now and people would say Linux who? Thankfully Ubuntu, SuSE, PCLOS, MINT etc. bring back the pleasure of using Linux for average persons.

---

### Post by acimmarusti on 2009-04-24
Yet if it wasn't for Debian (a hardcore purist distro), Ubuntu, Mint and many other easy to use distros would not exist!

---

