---
title: "7.10&gt;8.04  upgrade success"
date: 2008-09-01
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by armandh on 2008-09-01
maybe it is the hardware choices or maybe it was the time in the 8.04 cycle, but the upgrade was uneventful and completely successful. previously I preferred a fresh install as it is less time consuming but this box had more stuff in it and the difference would be consumed with getting back what I added to the 7.10. very pleased as it just works.

NOW THE BAD NEWS
As noted in post 4 below VLC quit playing dvds
since VLC and medibuntu codex are not part of the Ubuntu normal out of the box software there is no assurance of it working. Totem did play dvds after the upgrade so I suspect it is the VLC not the medibuntu that caused me to reload everything as I wanted and now have working VLC.

why did I reload rather than fix??? As noted below I have VLC working in other 8.04 installs that were not upgrades. thus the known time to install vs the unknown time to fix made a reload seem the easiest path

NOW THE EXTRA GOOD NEWS
re installing my dds-32 printer for which there are no Linux drivers except generic postscript. several re branders use the basic mechanics and I thought I would try the only Hitachi driver in the "selectable printers". IT JUST WORKED.

reloading gives one the chance to try new things.

.

---

### Post by modmadmike on 2008-09-01
Cool! Unfortunately I have not tried the upgrade option ever so I don't know if it would be the same for me lol

---

### Post by DanJC on 2008-09-01
I'm hoping that the upgrade for 8.10 will go just as smoothly. :)

---

### Post by armandh on 2008-09-04
spoke too soon
VLC quit playing dvds
VLC does work with a plain install of 8.04

vlc is not in the add/remove
nor is any of the medibuntu codex part of the [free] enviornment

so now I am back to a fresh install is better than upgrade
if vlc is a must

---

### Post by knguyen144 on 2008-09-04
I started out with 7.04, upgraded to 7.10 and now 8.04 without any major hickup i.e wireless, DVD, Sound ... work well as expected.

Be patient, ask questions then people in the forum will help.
Remember, you pay nothing for the software, which many people have spent their own time to make it happened.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-09-05
Nice to hear, glad everything worked out. :)

---

### Post by ukripper on 2008-09-05
> **armandh said:**
> spoke too soon
VLC quit playing dvds
VLC does work with a plain install of 8.04

vlc is not in the add/remove
nor is any of the medibuntu codex part of the [free] enviornment

so now I am back to a fresh install is better than upgrade

upgrade worked  fine for me on three machines!

---

