---
title: "8.04 and 256 vs 512"
date: 2008-03-26
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by armandh on 2008-03-26
there was always some performance gains above 256 meg but it seems the gains are bigger in 8.04. 
big difference on a P-III

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-03-27
What do you mean?

A machine with > 256Mb RAM makes you notice significant performance gains in 8.04, but not so much in 7.10 etc?

I don't run anything with 256Mb RAM anymore, except for my server, but that has no GUI, so 256Mb isn't too bad for that

---

### Post by armandh on 2008-03-28
I acquired 3 free computers [1 P-III, 2 celeron] and of course I thought I would try dual booting with the licensed 2K pro.  the installs went smooth. I put 8.04 beta on the P-III 933 ghz then I noticed it had high density memory and having a few sticks that were unusable in other machines, I moved it from 256 to 512  the performance difference seemed much greater than other P-IIIs  I tried a 866 P-III on the bench with 7.10.
not even similar P-IIIs but the difference in performance gain seemed much greater with 8.04

or is it just wishful thinking, or too many other variables???

to be sure I should triple boot adding 7.10 to the 8.04 machine and try both mem conf. with out the variables of different machines or has any one else noted anything like this?

---

### Post by freebeer on 2008-03-28
I was playing around with a 733Mhz Celeron with 256meg.  I tried loading 7.10 and while it installed, it was really slow.  I did a quick check with "top" and I was right at the memory limit.  

For a different reason, I decided to try 8.04 beta.  It, too, was slow (possibly slower?) than 7.10.  I dropped in another 256 stick and that made a world of difference.  While I certainly wouldn't describe it as "snappy", it is certainly usable and responsive enough for my intended purpose.  (Gonna give it to my 74 yo father for basic email and web access.)

---

