---
title: "8.04 &gt; 8.10 Amazingly smooth update"
date: 2008-11-27
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by altalchemist on 2008-11-27
Congratulations Team Ubuntu! 

For the first time EVER I have done an in-place distribution upgrade and EVERYTHING is working first time. 

This may sound trivial, however, for me it's taken ages to setup everything how I like it and I always seem to need to set aside time to re-configure odd bits and bobs. I have Mythtv with DVB-T hardware, Dovecot IMAP server, Apache with multiple custom sites, SSL, mysql, Roundcube webmail, fetchmail, postfix, Spamassasian, amavis etc.etc. 

This is is the first time that every custom configuration was spotted and correctly dealt with - I.E. The upgrade process asked me 'sensible' questions. The compare differences processes 'made sense' for a change. 

There were no "Package youneverheadofit-6.66 wants to change the flux-capacitor - please enter your sudo password" prompts. 
 
I am amazed that I have just rebooted and every service is up and running without me having to change anything. 

This really runs right to the root of the philosophy of the package management and 'sensible' decisions that are being made throughout the distribution. 

So congratulations again - and thank you to all the developers and maintainers who are taking the time to ensure the upgrade/update process works.

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-11-27
successful update here too, even from the beta :)

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-11-27
happy to hear it worked out for you, as you are braver than me. the word "upgrade" does not exist in my vocabulary. i could never feel good about using  any computer that was upgraded. i love the smell of fresh OS in the mornin'.

anyway, it's good to hear some upgrade success stories.

---

