---
title: "The 10.04 Interface – A Windows-Switcher’s View"
date: 2010-05-13
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by louis_mallow on 2010-05-13
[This is actually cross-posted from my blog, but I felt it rlevant to the forum.]
 
Since the release of Ubuntu 10.04 the chat on the forums and podcasts seems to be crticism of the default interface. As someone switchng full time to Ubuntu from Windows for the first time, I feel justified in commenting.
 
**‘It looks like a Mac.’**
 
Does it? I have no idea. Frankly, if looking like a Mac means looking attractive and having a better interface than Windows, I don’t care. It enhances my ability to move over. As a switcher I don’t want something that acts in all ways like Windows, else why switch?
 
**‘It lost the earthen, human colours.’**
 
I looked in on every version before this and I liked those colours, too. They set Ubuntu apart. Their use in the default wallpaper in Hardy, especially, bowled me over and made me realise I was trying something interested in beauty and fun.
 
But the new colour schemes in Ambience and Radience themes are just as attractive. And in any event no Windows-switcher isn’t a power user; we’re not there in universal uptake yet. Everyone loads up a new OS and immediately changes the settings to suit.
What you miss isn’t the colours, but the statement they made. I get that. But I believe the new colours will turn off fewer would-be converts than the old ones.
 
**‘The buttons are on the left. They have a changed order. (The world is therefore ending.)’**
 
Really, who cares? At work my Windows machine has buttons on the right. My iPod Touch has them all over the place. Personally I’m a righty who uses my mouse in the left hand to save my arthritic right shoulder and elbow.* I *love* the buttons on the left. If you don’t like it just move them! One of the beauties of Ubuntu is its adaptability and accessibility. Why are lifetime-of-product users complaining about something I as a Windows-switcher can adapt to immediately and could just change in a trice? It just proves Ubuntu’s flexibility to me.
 
If it bothered me at all then I’d quickly be amazed that I’m using something for free and am worried not if the buttons will work, but if I can be bothered to change which side they’re on.
 
**‘Mark S./Canonical Design changed our Ubuntu!’**
 
This is what it’s about. You’ve been in this community, worked hard, and feel like Ubuntu’s being taken away from you. It’s really not. It’s just that some things need money, and design is one of them.
 
Lucid is different, but it’s beautiful. And with Compiz flying and just some minor modification to the o.o.b configuration, it makes Windows 7 users pretty envious (I know – I’ve baited them with it). And it’s the new design and feel that caused me to finally get rid of all Windows. That’s one new convert, determined to join the community, and to input where I can. 
 
*If you’re a righty you should try your mouse on the left. Centre up your keyboard and see how much the num-pad sticks out. Isn’t that a pain, having a mouse way out there?

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-05-13
Why does everyone want ubuntu to imitate another OS? If Mac imitated Windows would anyone be using it? Ubuntu is stepping out to be its own thing and I like it.

You can easily change the theming of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by julianb on 2010-05-13
>  If Mac imitated Windows would anyone be using it? 

Turn this question around a little. Consider the year that Windows 3.1 came out, and ask yourself - if windows imitated Mac, would anyone be using it?

One of the reasons for the huge user-base of Windows is that, over and over again, if someone's software was working better than Windows, Microsoft ate their pride and changed their software. It's how we got windows in the first place, and it's how we got Win7 too.

Microsoft, Canonical, and Apple are all companies whose primary strength is not in new ideas, but in taking someone else's ideas and putting them in a good package.

---

