---
title: "11.10 Failed - Thumbs Down experience"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by wapfu on 2011-10-17
Yup,
A simple upgrade from 11.04 to 11.10 brought no login ability and no shut down - no recovery consul.
I have ubuntu on a separate drive.

A reinstall from the live CD using the something else option and reinstalling to the same partition - failed - no login brought a pink screen of death when the distribution tried to start - but I did have a recovery consul.
Use the upgrade from 11.10 to 11.10 from the live CD - failed again - no login just a pink screen of death.

Mind you I can get to the recovery consul - that is a bonus - does nothing though.

Choose other Linux distributions and low an behold 11.10 is there choose it - fail.
Choose any of the other preceding distributions - fail yet again.

My feeling about 11.10 - BIG FAIL ALL ROUND.

I can still get to windows - bonus - Ubuntu neah fail.

Big Thumbs Down.

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2011-10-17
> **wapfu said:**
> Yup,
A simple upgrade from 11.04 to 11.10 brought no login ability and no shut down - no recovery consul.
I have ubuntu on a separate drive.

A reinstall from the live CD using the something else option and reinstalling to the same partition - failed - no login brought a pink screen of death when the distribution tried to start - but I did have a recovery consul.
Use the upgrade from 11.10 to 11.10 from the live CD - failed again - no login just a pink screen of death.

Mind you I can get to the recovery consul - that is a bonus - does nothing though.

Choose other Linux distributions and low an behold 11.10 is there choose it - fail.
Choose any of the other preceding distributions - fail yet again.

My feeling about 11.10 - BIG FAIL ALL ROUND.

I can still get to windows - bonus - Ubuntu neah fail.

Big Thumbs Down.

Did you test it from the Live CD before installing? problem sounds like a video driver issuee.

---

### Post by Alwimo on 2011-10-17
I take it you updated 11.04 to become 11.10 instead of installing it outright.
 
11.04 to 11.10 changes a lot, such as Gnome 2 to Gnome 3 and LightDM instead of GDM, so there is a lot to go wrong with an update from a previous version to it.
 
Upgrading like that is strongly discouraged, and that should be made clear to the user before they do it.

---

### Post by wapfu on 2011-10-18
Oh well I done what should not be done.

Yup from 11.04 to 11.10. 
"I take it you updated 11.04 to become 11.10 instead of installing it outright."
When it said in the auto update, 11.10, is there for the upgrade, absolutely no warning ("Upgrading like that is strongly discouraged, and that should be made clear to the user before they do it") of a very big possible fail was broadcast. No warnings to stop, desist, don't pass go.

Oh well big fail then.

Just have to wait for a more agreeable distribution to appear and hope in 6 months it will upgrade with out a problem.

Video card is Ok as the first time although it would not let me log on it did allow a guest session.

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2011-10-18
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu Testimonials & Experiences**.*

Not a support request...


404

---

### Post by steveredshaw on 2011-10-18
exactly the same has happened to me, no log-in and no shutdown after I updated from 11.04 through the update manager

it seems incredible that the distributors did not put any warnings about possible failure in the update message if they weren't confident about it all working properly - the emphasis was definitely on encouraging you to upgrade

well, we can moan and complain about it - I am very disappointed as I am a fairly new convert to Ubuntu and find it really good to use - but how do I now get my computer back to a usable state?

fresh install from CD?

is it possible to roll back the version?

fix things through terminal commands supplied by very helpful and knowledgeable folk on the forum (of which I am not one!)

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2011-10-18
Out of my own experience with Oneiric I would highly recommend a fresh install.  Fixed all the issues I had after trying an upgrade.


404

---

### Post by armandh on 2011-10-18
I no longer upgrade, nor overwrite anything usefull

where possible I triple boot, and store data separately.

two boots being Linux

the one I'm  using and the one I'm changing.

usually the one I'm changing is older.

---

### Post by Walldorf2000 on 2011-10-19
Similar problem here. I upgraded 11.04 to 11.10.

When I try to log on now, simply nothing happens. It doesn't matter if i choose "ubuntu", "ubuntu 2D" or "XFCE".

Other users on this machine work. Just mine doesn't.

---

### Post by steveredshaw on 2011-10-19
have now restored my machine to working order, decided to go back to 10.10 and did a fresh install from CD, after a few updates it is rolling along nicely again

I take on board comments (here and on other posts) about running a stable version or taking a slightly riskier route with the latest version - also my laptop is not the latest and I guess the more developed Ubuntu becomes the less it will suit older hardware

we still need more discussion on the issue of whether to upgrade or not, this is part of looking at what support and guidance is given for new users or those with little technical knowledge, who can easily get into a mess (this will always include me, I only feel confident in using the command line after advice - usually from the forum - if I cannot achieve my goal through a GUI), losing all your data or being left with a non-functioning machine is a pretty raw deal for being brave and trying something new!

as seen from recent comments this can put people off Ubuntu in particular and maybe Linux in general - which is a great shame I feel for the cause of Open Source software and the whole ethos of co-operation and community development as opposed to solely commercial provision

---

### Post by Meelad on 2011-10-19
Upgrade has always been a problem for SOME people in Ubuntu.. Sometimes the cause of the problem could be a simple app or plugin that you installed on your system (but somebody else didn't) which is hardly Ubuntu's fault..

But anyway, I don't trust the upgrade option anymore.. I always do fresh installation, it has always worked great for me.. Including 11.10 by the way..

---

### Post by Walldorf2000 on 2011-10-20
There is already a patch on the way: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lightdm/+bug/871667]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lightdm/+bug/871667")

Workaround is to change the ownership of file ~/.Xauthority

It should not be owned by root but by the user i.e. what's behind ~

e.g. if the user is named hugo the owner of the file
```
/home/hugo/.Xauthority
```
should be hugo.

When I remember it right the statemant should in this case look like: ```
sudo chown hugo /home/hugo/.Xauthority
```

AFAIKT the patch does not fix the root cause why the file has the wrong authority but is simply corrects it if it is wrong.

---

