---
title: "11.10 performance"
date: 2012-02-23
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by aminmama on 2012-02-23
Hi,

I couldn't wait to install 11.10 after I bought ACER AS5250 recently. But I'm very disappointed.

1. The login window looks ugly. The version number "11.10" shown on the bottom left, the dotted grid background, and the left sided login box cannot present simple and elegant window back to 10.10 version I installed on another laptop. It is worse than 8.04, my view.

2. The interface is changed. Instead of nicely grouped, easy to navigate drop-down menu at desktop, icons are used instead. I can understand the desire to have iPAD look icon interface. But I think this interface is designed in a wrong platform. Ubuntu should consider one for desktop, one for mobile. iPAD icon interface does not change how iMAC desktop looks.

3. The boot time is longer. To compare apple to apple, I did install 10.10 on the same machine and upgrade to 11.04 and then 11.10. 11.10 takes longer than 10.10 to boot obviously. Compared to 8.04, 11.10 is more slower. There are some blackout periods during boot time with some IO memory error message flashed in a second or so before it boots into login window.

4. The time to kick off the application is longer compared to 10.10. To fire up firefox in 10.10, it is almost a flash of time. In 11.10, after clicking on the firefox icon, I need wait for 4 to 5 seconds to see the window open. I rather fall back to 10.10 to have a faster response than to have the iPAD like but slow interface. The performance is really a concern. What does OS do after a click? I don't understand what is causing such a significant delay.

5. The system hangs! The machine hangs a couple of times in a day. It hangs everywhere: during boot, during login and during kicking off the first firefox window.

So I decided to fall back to 10.10 after removing the 11.10 partition. But I couldn't make the wireless work. It is always a pain to make wireless work on ubuntu. Searching on the web for a couple of hours, I found someone complaining that 10.10 or older won't work with Atheros wireless device. Well, 11.10 works very well with Atheros. So I have to choose to install a version can work in wireless but can hang sometimes or a version which is stable but need a network cable attached all the time. My decision is to restore the system back to Windows7. Ironically, even Win7 has faster boot time. At least it won't hang.

If ubuntu is pursuing the spirit to make it everyone's OS, it needs to resolve the installation hassle first.

Aminmama
Ubuntu user since 8.04

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-02-23
Hi, if you want help for your wireless I can possibly help with that. 

Please post the output of:
```
cat /etc/lsb-release; uname -a
lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
iwconfig
rfkill list all
lsmod

```
by clicking on new reply and click # and paste the information between the brackets.

Please note that this section of the forum is for support, there are other forums for releasing the pressure.
Thank you

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2012-02-24
> **aminmama said:**
> 
 Well, 11.10 works very well with Atheros. So I have to choose to install a version can work in wireless but can hang sometimes or a version which is stable but need a network cable attached all the time. My decision is to restore the system back to Windows7. Ironically, even Win7 has faster boot time. At least it won't hang.

If ubuntu is pursuing the spirit to make it everyone's OS, it needs to resolve the installation hassle first.

Aminmama
Ubuntu user since 8.04

Well unity interface is slow. Too bad Mark Shuttlework does not understand. Try Linux Mint next time. It has a more familer interface.

---

### Post by Hylas de Niall on 2012-02-24
Yup. Same experience here.

11.10 really is much much slower than previous versions, and is well known to hang (lock up, crash etc) frequently for a lot of users.

I too reverted back to 10.10 for the speed and reliability.

You're not alone! ;)

---

### Post by polki@mac.com on 2012-02-24
Try Lubuntu for speed.

---

### Post by aura7 on 2012-02-24
+1 for Linux Mint

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-02-24
> **idoitprone said:**
> Well unity interface is slow. Too bad Mark Shuttlework does not understand.

I think you'll find that:

a. Mark Shuttleworth doesn't actually program Unity and therefore is not responsible for any inefficient code
b. Unity is heaps faster in 12.04.

> Instead of nicely grouped, easy to navigate drop-down menu at desktop, icons are used instead. I can understand the desire to have iPAD look icon interface. But I think this interface is designed in a wrong platform. Ubuntu should consider one for desktop, one for mobile. iPAD icon interface does not change how iMAC desktop looks.

Unity looks and feels nothing like the iPad. Rounded icons do not an iPad make. See the attached picture.

One interface for desktop and one interface for tablet/phone is wasteful and inconsistent. If desktops, laptops, tablets, phones, TVs etc could use the same user interface, it would be much easier to learn a new device. It would also be easier to write programs that work on all platforms. And it prepares Ubuntu for the future where desktop PCs and tablets converge.

You can put your favorite programs onto the Launcher sidebar, and for programs that aren't on the Launcher you can simply hit the SUPER key and start typing its name. If you can't remember its name, press More Apps and then click on one of the filters on the right-hand side to get a view of all programs that belong in that category. Just like the old menu.

Finally, if your system is hanging, you've probably got bad RAM, or your graphics card really isn't up to the task of using a 3D composited desktop. There is a version of Unity that works entirely 2D; you could try choosing it at the login screen and seeing if this helps you.

---

### Post by HeroOfCanton on 2012-02-24
Or xubuntu. Linux = choices!

---

### Post by ixtok on 2012-02-24
+1 for linux mint

---

### Post by Hylas de Niall on 2012-02-24
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Finally, if your system is hanging, you've probably got bad RAM, or your graphics card really isn't up to the task of using a 3D composited desktop. There is a version of Unity that works entirely 2D; you could try choosing it at the login screen and seeing if this helps you.

Not too sure of the truth of this TBH, as Win7 and earlier Ubus run just fine, even under fairly heavy workloads (for me at least) on the exact same architecture.

As for Unity 2d    ...just as slow, and still crashed all the time, though no issues (other than the poor performance) on my dinky little 3 year old netbook.

I've said elsewhere on the forum that i think it may be more of an issue with Gnome 3 or the 3.XX.XX kernels. 

I'm looking forward to trying Precise though :)

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2012-02-24
> **Hylas de Niall said:**
> Not too sure of the truth of this TBH, as Win7 and earlier Ubus run just fine, even under fairly heavy workloads (for me at least) on the exact same architecture.

As for Unity 2d    ...just as slow, and still crashed all the time, though no issues (other than the poor performance) on my dinky little 3 year old netbook.

I've said elsewhere on the forum that i think it may be more of an issue with Gnome 3 or the 3.XX.XX kernels. 

I'm looking forward to trying Precise though :)

Lately desktop are made on the assumption that computers will be faster.

In terms of resources lxde<xfce<kde4<gnome4

---

### Post by Hylas de Niall on 2012-02-25
> **idoitprone said:**
> Lately desktop are made on the assumption that computers will be faster.

In terms of resources lxde<xfce<kde4<gnome4

and yet Precise Pangolin reportedly runs much faster than Oneiric Ocelot?
TBH the speed really wasn't an issue for me with 11.10. The repeated crashing *was*. I hope that's not an issue with PP.
:)


wait: Gnome **_4_**?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-02-25
Seeing as this is not a support question, more of an opinion piece, moved to Testimonials.

---

### Post by marl30 on 2012-02-26
I've recently done a psychocat  "get back to pure Ubuntu" switch from Kubuntu, and with all the latest updates, Ubuntu seem to be a lot faster than it was two months. Even the native 3d games that didn't run too well are working now as smoothly as they did under Kubuntu.

---

### Post by Hylas de Niall on 2012-02-28
Just for the record, regarding my earlier posts relating to speed; I'm typing this from an install of a daily build of 12.04, and i can report with confidence that...
PP is *a lot* faster than OO, Unity is more responsive and fun to use, and i promise i'm not on comission from Canonical!

:D

Things are looking up folks.

---

### Post by BJCV86 on 2012-02-29
[QUOTE=aminmama;11713474]Hi,


2. The interface is changed. Instead of nicely grouped, easy to navigate drop-down menu at desktop, icons are used instead. I can understand the desire to have iPAD look icon interface. But I think this interface is designed in a wrong platform. Ubuntu should consider one for desktop, one for mobile. iPAD icon interface does not change how iMAC desktop looks.

3. The boot time is longer. To compare apple to apple, I did install 10.10 on the same machine and upgrade to 11.04 and then 11.10. 11.10 takes longer than 10.10 to boot obviously. Compared to 8.04, 11.10 is more slower. There are some blackout periods during boot time with some IO memory error message flashed in a second or so before it boots into login window.

I disagree with both those statements. I am sorry about your new purchase just to have hops become disappointments. However, buying a "new box" and hoping Ubuntu works is like me. and having to buy 3 different motherboards trial and error which one is operating best. So next time I decide new software I must make sure the hardware is compliant and recommended. By hardware, I do not mean a BOX with stuff in it. I mean the individual parts. Such as Motherboard Socket, Video Card, And HDD that is quick and at a least 2GB RAM for any new O.S to function happily. Get these independantly ( Often can cost alot less than buying a new BOX from say a computer store. With my old Lian Li Case, I had a P4 DualCore H.T 3Ghz to start off with. I bought a new motherboard to fit the 468Socket with DD2 667 things 2GB of it. and my old 7200RPM ATA 100 HDD. Shoved em all together and presto. Simplification. Total Cost $170.00. Some glitched now and again, but I also have windows 7 and there are gitches now and again.

---

### Post by Noobuntu Guy on 2012-02-29
I would have to say this may be a hardware issue.  I'm running Ubuntu 11.10 on my Asus 1005HA Netbook with 2GB Ram.  It takes 3 seconds to open Firefox after startup  and Chromium comes up slightly faster.  It's not lightning fast, but it isn't sluggish.  As for stability, my system has never crashed.

I might try Xubuntu or wait for 12.04.  For now, I'm very happy about the performance vs. Windows XP (the previous installed OS).

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2012-03-01
> Noobuntu Guy
I might try Xubuntu or wait for 12.04.  For now, I'm very happy about  the performance vs. Windows XP (the previous installed OS). 

You might try [Lubuntu]("http://lubuntu.net/") . A lightweight  install that on the systems I tested was pretty quick and used limited  resources. It varied slightly depending on system hardware, but overall  it appear noticeably quicker than Ubuntu.

In my experience, when comparing one OS to another - one  should use benchmarks and systems designed specifically for each OS  under test. Using one system to compare multiple OS's "assumes" said  system is totally compatible (including drivers) with all OS's tested. IMHO that's hard to  find, as generally a system is built to accommodate the OS of choice.

It's been my observation that few users (I know) concern themselves with  slight variations of load or boot times (+/- a few seconds). They  appear to be more concerned with speed & performance after loading.  Obviously, they have no desire to wait on lengthly load/boot times, but a few  seconds one way or the other doesn't seem to impact them. I guess, if  one were constantly cycling their system on/off, shaving a few seconds  off the boot time could improve the experience. However, I'd worry more  about the impact on system hardware from the constantly cycling. :-k

Just my $0.02

---

