---
title: "wow - 12.04 is even worse"
date: 2012-05-09
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by jhenager on 2012-05-09
This one won't even run. Who is running this ship?
Unity sucks, and always has and probably always will.
But when an OS takes forever to install on a AMD II 4 processor system that is so fast it is hard to catch the BIOS screen that you have to try 4 or 5 times, there is no excuse.
I am typing this after blowing away the 12.04 junk and installing 9.04. Same hardware.
I just can't believe what Ubuntu is doing. I cannot ever recommend anything past 10.10 to anyone ever again. I actually wouldn't advise using any version. I was a big supporter of this. I loved previous versions. They were fast, solid, and beautiful. None of these adjectives can describe the abortion that has become Ubuntu. Maybe it is just because the cash flow isn't happening, but the end user doesn't care. This software is simply dysfunctional from start to finish.
Somebody go over to Mark and smack him upside the head if he is still cognizant of his surroundings.
He is producing crap that will absolutely kill this OS.
WOW.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2012-05-09
Moved to Ubuntu Testimonials & Experiences

---

### Post by jhenager on 2012-05-09
Do you see my join date? I loved you. Now you're dead.
Please don't tell me it is my imagination.
20 years in the tech support business.
CCNA
MCP
A+
Network+
ITIL
Dell Certified
I only hope someone sees this and says, "Yeah, the computing community is seeing the same thing."
Go back. It will be major steps forward, crazy as that sounds.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-05-09
Sorry your disappointed, but I just wanted to let you know that 9.04 is end of life and not supported if that matters.

Best of luck.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2012-05-09
I realize your ranting, but I just had to say.


If 12.04 LTS won't even run what is it doing on 3 machines at my house right now. Looks great too, I love how the login screen matches it's theme with each users wallpaper, and changes based on which user you have selected. btw how do you know Unity sucks if it won't even run?

9.04 is, and has been at it's EOL for a long time, at least go with 10.04 LTS.

As this is a rant, and not a request for support, none will be provided... Enjoy.

---

### Post by marl30 on 2012-05-09
Why not try one of the other flavors of 12.04 (K,X or L). I've been  having performance issue with the Unity desktop since 11.10, and I have  moved to Kubuntu 12.04, after seeing the same performance problems I had  in 11.10, surfaced in Ubuntu 12.04 on my 5yr old desktop with 2gb of  ram. 

Whoever said the Unity version of Ubuntu performs better  than the KDE desktop don't know what they are saying. KDE uses more  rams, but is much faster and smoother, from my experience.

---

### Post by Antman on 2012-05-09
> **jhenager said:**
> Do you see my join date? I loved you. Now you're dead.
Please don't tell me it is my imagination.
20 years in the tech support business.
CCNA
MCP
A+
Network+
ITIL
Dell Certified
I only hope someone sees this and says, "Yeah, the computing community is seeing the same thing."
Go back. It will be major steps forward, crazy as that sounds.
Aren't opinions great.:popcorn:

---

### Post by sammiev on 2012-05-09
No issues here. Maybe try windows then, it maybe just what you need.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2012-05-09
Thread closed.

---

