---
title: "8.04 Sucks&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by cmcfarland21 on 2008-04-25
I upgraded from 7.10 now everything runs SLOOOOOWWWWWW.  Compiz not working right.  Web page scrolls slow.  WHat s the deal?  Is it my video card?  If so, why wasn't it a problem with 7.10.

---

### Post by cmcfarland21 on 2008-04-25
here is my xorg.conf file.  WHy so short?


# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-04-25
> **cmcfarland21 said:**
> I upgraded from 7.10 now everything runs SLOOOOOWWWWWW.  Compiz not working right.  Web page scrolls slow.  WHat s the deal?  Is it my video card?  If so, why wasn't it a problem with 7.10.

HI and what is the model of the graphics card and you may choose a better thread title.
Edit if you are still using the ati radeon x1200  you may look at Envy.

---

### Post by kamitsukai on 2008-04-25
wows love the title just wait for the flamers...and just to let you know 8.4 doesn't suck its just that you dont have it set up right at the moment you try deploying an operating system which has to run on hardware that wasn't designed for it! hope you get your problems sorted though :)

---

### Post by dasunst3r on 2008-04-25
Your xorg.conf is that small because XOrg 7.3 does more autoconfiguration for you.  However, until you tell us what graphics card you are using, we won't be able to diagnose the problem.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2008-04-25
You've enabled your video cards drivers, yes?

---

### Post by Saint Angeles on 2008-04-25
8.04 does NOT suck

people that pre-judge suck

---

### Post by nina_aoki on 2008-04-25
> 8.04 Sucks>>>>>>>>

mmmm... yeah, that'll encourage people to help you...

---

### Post by Mazza558 on 2008-04-25
If you're on ATi, that's pretty much why it's slow. I have the same problem (though I don't rant about it - it's ATi's fault).

---

### Post by grannyw on 2008-04-25
the post name says that the post author dosnt understand many things

---

### Post by cmcfarland21 on 2008-04-25
Let me clarify..

Sucks compared to 7.10

graphics card Radeon Xpress 200

---

### Post by crjackson on 2008-04-25
> **cmcfarland21 said:**
> Let me clarify..

Sucks compared to 7.10

graphics card Radeon Xpress 200


Dude, you're a trip.  I have 4 systems with the same card and it works great.  Too bad I'm put off by your title.  It's not hard to address that problem at all.  Perhaps someone here who can appriciate your attitude will help.

You may wonder why I'm posting at all since I'm unwilling to help.  I'm trying to help you in another way.  I want you to see how your title and comments cause people to rush to your aid.

How about you just post a request for help and let this thread die?

---

### Post by stalkier on 2008-04-25
> **cmcfarland21 said:**
> Let me clarify..

Sucks compared to 7.10

graphics card Radeon Xpress 200

I am using Ubuntu 8.04 on my Compaq V2000 series laptop. I have the broadcom and the same ATI card you have. However I upgraded the ram from stock 512 to 1.5 GB and upgraded my hdd to a 120gig 5400RPM drive. My system doesn't run slow and my Compiz has all effects running smoothly. Makes sure your drivers are enabled and the install ccsm and Fusion-icon both are in the repos. you will also want to install emerald (in repos also - but I am sure you are aware of that). Hope you get through it dude. You will get a lot of flamers.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-04-25
sucka sucka sucka sucka sucka sucka sucka --- Sucker!

---

### Post by Google Spider on 2008-04-25
> **cmcfarland21 said:**
> Let me clarify..

Sucks compared to 7.10

graphics card Radeon Xpress 200

Exactly same graphics card as mine. I will give you a link to my youtube video of compiz fusion when I make it.O:)

**In case you don't have the driver installed, read on...**
Go to system>Administration>Hardware drivers and enable the driver. Now restart.

There are excellent How To's for installing compiz fusion and emerald on this forum. Use the search feature or Google it.

---

### Post by cmcfarland21 on 2008-04-26
> **stalkier said:**
> I am using Ubuntu 8.04 on my Compaq V2000 series laptop. I have the broadcom and the same ATI card you have. However I upgraded the ram from stock 512 to 1.5 GB and upgraded my hdd to a 120gig 5400RPM drive. My system doesn't run slow and my Compiz has all effects running smoothly. Makes sure your drivers are enabled and the install ccsm and Fusion-icon both are in the repos. you will also want to install emerald (in repos also - but I am sure you are aware of that). Hope you get through it dude. You will get a lot of flamers.

Thanks Stalkier
I have the video card driver enabled.  I have ccsm and fusion-icon running as well as emerald.  I have 2GB of ram but everything is running slow.  Web pages scroll really slow.  Everything was fine until I upgraded.  NOt sure if its my graphics card or Firefox 3.

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-04-26
> **Mazza558 said:**
> If you're on ATi, that's pretty much why it's slow. I have the same problem (though I don't rant about it - it's ATi's fault).

Ati might have problems but I feel the need to tell that not all ati drivers cause hardy to become slow.

I use ati and have compiz fusion enabled with a lot of plugins and it's faster than ever.

To the OP (ignoring the childish title):

Doing a clean install is better than updating.

But it just sounds like you didn't install your graphics card drivers. Install them using "hardware drivers" or google for the "envy" program.

---

### Post by sayakb on 2008-04-26
Can't he still edit and change the Thread topic? :(

---

### Post by Theo148 on 2008-04-26
I wasn't aware it was possible to change thread topics...

> **billgoldberg said:**
> But it just sounds like you didn't install your graphics card drivers. Install them using "hardware drivers" or google for the "envy" program.

Isn't envy in the official repositories now?

You could try

```
sudo apt-get install envy
```

---

### Post by ghost_ryder35 on 2008-04-26
if you have the driver installed try
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg


```

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2008-04-26
sounds like the ATI driver not working.

try using ENVY

what does glxgears in terminal give you?

scott@scott-desktop:~$ glxgears
14737 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2947.319 FPS
15202 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3040.207 FPS
15251 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3050.018 FPS
13589 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2717.653 FPS

And mine is fast scrolling in FF
ATI 9600SE

---

### Post by FredB on 2008-04-26
Stinks little a moutain troll. Don't bother answering to him ! :lol:

---

### Post by cmcfarland21 on 2008-04-26
> **sdowney717 said:**
> sounds like the ATI driver not working.

try using ENVY

what does glxgears in terminal give you?

scott@scott-desktop:~$ glxgears
14737 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2947.319 FPS
15202 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3040.207 FPS
15251 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3050.018 FPS
13589 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2717.653 FPS

And mine is fast scrolling in FF
ATI 9600SE

I have disabled the ATI driver and everything is fast again but I can't use Compiz.  Thats OK.  With the driver disabled I am seeing:
charles@charles-desktop:~$ glxgears
2721 frames in 5.0 seconds = 542.820 FPS
2890 frames in 5.0 seconds = 575.086 FPS
2891 frames in 5.0 seconds = 575.193 FPS
2890 frames in 5.0 seconds = 575.181 FPS
2891 frames in 5.0 seconds = 575.003 FPS
2890 frames in 5.0 seconds = 575.111 FPS
2850 frames in 5.0 seconds = 568.091 FPS

---

### Post by cmcfarland21 on 2008-04-26
With my ATI driver enabled and compiz not running I get
charles@charles-desktop:~$ glxgears
1002 frames in 5.0 seconds = 199.840 FPS
1060 frames in 5.0 seconds = 210.358 FPS
1060 frames in 5.1 seconds = 209.563 FPS
1060 frames in 5.0 seconds = 210.507 FPS
1060 frames in 5.0 seconds = 210.769 FPS
1060 frames in 5.0 seconds = 210.395 FPS
1060 frames in 5.0 seconds = 210.575 FPS

With my ATI driver enabled and compiz running I get
charles@charles-desktop:~$ glxgears
760 frames in 5.0 seconds = 151.288 FPS
780 frames in 5.0 seconds = 155.896 FPS
780 frames in 5.0 seconds = 154.971 FPS
780 frames in 5.1 seconds = 153.773 FPS
780 frames in 5.1 seconds = 154.359 FPS
780 frames in 5.0 seconds = 154.908 FPS
800 frames in 5.1 seconds = 156.199 FPS
760 frames in 5.1 seconds = 149.662 FPS

Clearly something to do with the driver.

---

### Post by lmorroni on 2008-05-09
I thought it might have been just me so I googled "8.04 sucks".  Lo and behold, others agree.  I am gonna have to agree with the poster.  This is coming from somebody that considers themselves moderately advanced in the *nix world.  

I actually have been dealing with 8.04 since the day it came out and I have found it to be really unstable.  I know a lot of people say this but I'll say it again...why the hell did they go with a Beta version of firefox on an LTS?  Also, my hardware that installed 7.10 fine gives issues when trying to install.  Video issues, SATA issues....it goes on and on.  I expected a much better release for an LTS and I am disappointed.  I am not flaming and I know I am not giving specific issues.  I am dealing with my specific issues in other threads, one at a time.  I am just posting to say that, in general, 8.04 definitely does not appear to have lived up to what it could have been.  The time is so ripe for Ubuntu to grab more users and all this release does for me is make me less inclined to suggest it to friends.  I wish I felt differently but that's the truth.

Larry

---

### Post by Ghaarnok on 2008-05-09
As a sort of linux newbie I can say that 8.04 does feel slower and more bloated than 7.10. (on and I did a fresh install of 8.04)

That is my impression anyway, take it as you will. I am no zealot for linux or windows.

a link to my own thread... [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=788612]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=788612")

---

### Post by AnonCat on 2008-07-29
I have to admit to being disappointed with 8.04 as 7.10 seemed a lot faster and more functional in general, but I'm going to just wait for 8.10 and cross my fingers.

---

### Post by Vorian Grey on 2008-07-29
At least 7.10 worked for you guys. It wouldn't even boot on my computer. 8.04 is fine and 8.04.1 is better than fine compared to that.

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2008-07-29
I would say Ubuntu 8.04 is the best Ubuntu version ever made! It is most stable yet fast (for me it is even faster then Xubuntu 8.04!!!!) and much more user-friendly then other versions... (this is what I am experiencing) 

Note: Upgrading via internet often makes something happen afterwards...I would recommend you to download the iso file and burn it to a CD, put it in your floppy drive and and run an upgrade with the CD...If you have Ubuntu this will be the same as an upgrade. Just put the CD in when you are running Ubuntu, there is no need to boot...

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-07-29
> I would say Ubuntu 8.04 is the best Ubuntu version ever made! It is most stable yet fast (for me it is even faster then Xubuntu 8.04!!!!) and much more user-friendly then other versions... (this is what I am experiencing)

I couldnt agree more and maybe a fresh install will solve the issue, good luck

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2008-07-29
with compiz enabled 
ubuntu@ubuntu-desktop:~$ glxgears
7220 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1443.632 FPS
7504 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1500.488 FPS
7754 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1550.671 FPS
7474 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1491.888 FPS
5229 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1045.280 FPS
5164 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1032.768 FPS
6698 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1339.545 FPS
7443 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1488.507 FPS
7684 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1535.857 FPS
7601 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1519.710 FPS
I have 502mb RAM and 120gb HDD, nvidia geforce fx 5200 (made in 2003 or 2002)

---

### Post by stchman on 2008-07-29
> **cmcfarland21 said:**
> I upgraded from 7.10 now everything runs SLOOOOOWWWWWW.  Compiz not working right.  Web page scrolls slow.  WHat s the deal?  Is it my video card?  If so, why wasn't it a problem with 7.10.

Make and model of PC you are running.  What kind of hardware, etc.

We need information to help.

---

### Post by stchman on 2008-07-29
> **cmcfarland21 said:**
> Let me clarify..

Sucks compared to 7.10

graphics card Radeon Xpress 200

I had a Toshiba with a Readon XPress 200M and Hardy worked very well.  I enabled the restricted driver and Compiz worked.  Now the 200M is not a very powerful card so do not expect blistering speed.

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2008-07-29
I recommend backing up /home and reinstalling.

I guarantee you will have a better experience.

---

