---
title: "9.10 is not ready for release"
date: 2009-11-23
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by N00b-un-2 on 2009-11-23
I've been using Ubuntu since Gutsy.  I've had it as my ONLY operating system on 2 computers since Hardy was released, and I've done a fair amount of distro hopping (SuSE, Fedora, Debian, Mandriva, Arch, Mint, etc.), and I've tried most of them in every flavor of DE available (Gnome, KDE3/4, XFCE, LXDE, Enlightenment, etc) and I keep finding that Ubuntu is simply the best distro around.  But I must say that while the new eye candy of Karmic is a nice improvement, it does not even come close to making up for the amount of problems I've had with it.
My problems with Karmic have been numerous.  On my wife's amd64/Nvidia laptop, graphic performance was HORRIBLE, the computer would overheat, freeze up, and at times Nautilus would become unresponsive, not to mention the fact that GRUB2 is a huge pain in the ***, and took a lot of persuading to play nice with Windows7.
On my Toshiba (x86) laptop, I had the typical Intel graphics problems (stuck in 800x600, can't enable compiz) and my previously working WiFi card has been blacklisted for some reason.
On my HTPC that I have in my living room which I use primarily to run XBMC, Karmic decided that it didn't like XBMC and the program would crash as soon as it was launched.  This computer also has the typical Intel graphics problems.  I created an xrandr script that runs at startup which sets the resolution to 1280x800, however any time a program goes full screen (like flash video, XBMC, Boxee, or any video player) the resolution resets itself to 800x600.  After following a howto on fixing Intel graphics, my computer would no longer boot normally, forcing me to boot in recovery mode and start GDM manually, or else my mouse and keyboard would not work.

So in closing, I would like to say that I like the direction that Karmic is going, but it is FAR from ready for release.  For now I'm going to regress all my computers back to the ultra-stable Hardy 8.04.3 and wait until Lucid becomes stable before even considering an upgrade again.

---

### Post by unkilbeeg on 2009-11-23
Personally, I'm not so thrilled about where Karmic is going.

1) GDM
OK, we've lost the ability to theme GDM (at least for the moment.)  Big deal.  I could live with the default ugly GDM theme if GDM was working properly.  It starts out with that nasty "face" chooser that somebody at Microsoft thought was a good idea, and there's no *obvious* way to get rid of it.  A little bit of searching the forums and you can find a back door way (using gconf) to get rid of it.  Then you find that it comes up with a preliminary screen that you have to click "login" on before you get a password prompt.  I guess I should thank my lucky stars that I don't have to hit "Ctl-Alt-Del" in order to get to the password prompt.

A "face" chooser is a bad idea, because nobody who doesn't already have an account on the machine should ever be able to see who does have an account, end even those who do shouldn't be able to browse the usernames of other users.

2) Gconf
Which brings me to the use of gconf to configure GDM.  For the first time GDM no longer has a configuration file, everything is managed through gconf.  The most serious architectural deficiency in Microsoft Windows is its registry, yet we are working to implement in it Gnome?    What's up with that?


The rest of my problems with Karmic so far agree with the point of your post.  Lots of things that are just not ready.  My main laptop runs Gentoo, and the newest versions of the kernel and xorg with modesetting seem to run better than the Intel graphics ever have (after several months of graphic funkiness.)  Compiz works well, ElectricSheep behaves itself.  So why does each new version of Ubuntu seem to totally screw up Intel graphics?  I would expect this in Gentoo, since things tend to randomly break there, but Ubuntu is (presumably) less variable from machine to machine.

My netbook just got upgraded from Jaunty to Karmic.  Now the screen randomly goes black or freezes (necessitating a "hold the button down" type shutdown) If you close the lid, instead of going to sleep, it just sits there and gets hot (very hot.)  You can't even manually (from the menu) trigger suspend to memory.  Virtual terminals don't work -- you can get them to come up, but the flashing cursor stretches down to the bottom of each screen, and nothing you type actually shows up.  The resolution on this machine is actually correct, but Compiz which worked fine under Jaunty just errors out when you try to start it.  Wonder of wonders, the Broadcom wireless actually seems to work.  Of course, it worked before, but I don't seem to have the problem some people have had of the wireless going bad.

Fortunately, when I installed the netbook in the first place I created a separate /home partition, so installing Karmic from scratch should be safe.  I haven't massively customized it, so that's not much of a hardship.  I am a little irritated that the easy IMG file for the netbook install is no longer available, and I'm going to have to mess with unetbootin to get it to write a bootable USB.  I'm also not confident that a fresh install of Karmic will really fix all the problems, but I'm willing to entertain the hope that it will.  Otherwise, it's a *new* fresh install of Jaunty.

Previous upgrades of Ubuntu machines have been fairly painless, but this one has been a nightmare.  And aside from getting an upgrade to Firefox 3.5, I'm not sure I see the point anyway, since it appears that Karmic is a step back anyway in most respects.

---

### Post by iNaitvad on 2009-11-23
Have you tried clean installs? I make an upgrade and it killed completly my system...i belive it is beacause of the radeon-rewrite i installed and it messed up Xorg on the update, i didnt have time to check it out. So, I prefer clean install, i runs smothly out of the box. Just wondering all the people saying ubuntu 9.10 sucks and bla bla bla...have tried CLEAN INSTALL?...
Just wondering...

---

### Post by unkilbeeg on 2009-11-23
That's my next attempt before I re-install Jaunty.  It's a bit of a pain to do a fresh install on a netbook, but that's what I'll try before I give up completely on Karmic.  Keep in mind, however, that some (not all) of my objections to Karmic have to do with *Karmic* and not a botched install.

---

### Post by iNaitvad on 2009-11-23
I know Karmic has "karmic only" issues, its because they are lets say adding new features, they will work mostly, but this is not a LTS release. I also understand making a full install is a pain, i only acomplished an update succesfully... i dont know if other distros may do this better than ubuntu, but i alway pass the Upgrade option (I just dont trust it). But Im glad to pay the sacrifice of doing a full reinstall, I really like the new features and faster boot times...well is just my opinion.
BTW sorry for my bad english...Im peruvian =)

---

### Post by Norm24 on 2009-11-23
I must be different.

Karmic is by far the single greatest release of Ubuntu ever.Its really that good for me.

Can't wait for Lucid!

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-11-23
> **N00b-un-2 said:**
> So in closing, I would like to say that I like the direction that Karmic is going, but it is FAR from ready for release.  For now I'm going to regress all my computers back to the ultra-stable Hardy 8.04.3 and wait until Lucid becomes stable before even considering an upgrade again.

[SIZE="7"]Echo[/SIZE]...[SIZE="5"]echo[/SIZE]...[SIZE="3"]echo[/SIZE]...[SIZE="1"]echo[/SIZE]...

---

### Post by thiebaude on 2009-11-23
Norm24:Im with you,I have had no problems at all with 9.10, matter of fact no problems with ubuntu and i've been using it since 6.06.

---

### Post by kommunisti on 2009-11-23
> **Norm24 said:**
> I must be different.

Karmic is by far the single greatest release of Ubuntu ever.Its really that good for me.

Can't wait for Lucid!

Same here, haven't had any problems.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2009-11-23
> **unkilbeeg said:**
> That's my next attempt before I re-install Jaunty.  It's a bit of a pain to do a fresh install on a netbook, but that's what I'll try before I give up completely on Karmic.  Keep in mind, however, that some (not all) of my objections to Karmic have to do with *Karmic* and not a botched install.

You should have a dedicated thumb for whatever distro your running, yes keeping your feathers numbered for a unseen occasion. Net-books are a easy install you have netbootin to load the thumb or pen if your only running MS, and the usb creator that will set a persistent.

---

### Post by Methuselah on 2009-11-23
In terms of stability, Karmic has been abysmal so far.
It is so temperamental in the Live environment that I dare not install it except on a junk computer, for testing purposes.

I'm entirely unsurprised that it has been freezing on you.
I have restarted my computer more times in a day than I have in weeks with an older release.

The course you have taken in rolling back seems to be the best solution.
Users considering an upgrade should test for Karmititis on their important systems before making the leap.
As they say, it's better to be safe than sorry.

---

### Post by bowens44 on 2009-11-23
I had a couple of issues with sound at first but updates have fixed everything. I can honestly say that Karmic is the best distro I have ever used. Sound especially, I have never before been able to get 5.1 surround sound working with pulseaudio. Now I have and the sound is phenominal!!

I also had some probles with slow name resolution with firefox but it turns out that was my fault, I had some extensions that wwere causing issues.

I also went to a 32 bit to a 64 bit installation with Karmic. No mager problems, it's been great.

---

### Post by unkilbeeg on 2009-11-23
> **wilee-nilee said:**
> You should have a dedicated thumb for whatever distro your running, yes keeping your feathers numbered for a unseen occasion. Net-books are a easy install you have netbootin to load the thumb or pen if your only running MS, and the usb creator that will set a persistent.

Nope.  Don't have any MS anywhere here.  I don't have enough computers or disk space to waste any with an MS product.

I still have my dedicated Jaunty netbook installer USB.  It was easy to create, a nice straightforward IMG file that I could just dd to the flash drive.  My experience with unetbootin has not been so clean, and the "usb-creator" app looks to be Ubuntu only, and I only have a few Ubuntu machines for special purposes.  All my general purpose machines are Gentoo.  Also, all the un-dedicated USB drives I have handy right now are SanDisk Cruzers, and even after you clean the U3 crap off they're not a good choice for booting from, so I'll wait until I can get a more vanilla USB drive to make a Karmic installer.  

In the mean time I'll probably set the netbook on a shelf until I have time to deal with it.  I'll try a fresh Karmic install, and if that's too ugly I'll go back to Jaunty.

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-11-24
> **N00b-un-2 said:**
> So in closing, I would like to say that I like the direction that Karmic is going, but it is FAR from ready for release.  For now I'm going to regress all my computers back to the ultra-stable Hardy 8.04.3 and wait until Lucid becomes stable before even considering an upgrade again.
Good thinking! :)

I think once Lucid hits I'll be LTS -> LTS too. The only reason I jumped ship to Jaunty was that my desktop's wireless card was recognized from the get go, as opposed to having to use ndiswrapper and the XP driver.
I ran Hardy for nearly a year and a half because it just worked so well. :)

---

### Post by HeadHunter00 on 2009-11-24
> **Norm24 said:**
> I must be different.

Karmic is by far the single greatest release of Ubuntu ever.Its really that good for me.

Can't wait for Lucid!

Same here. I hope ubuntu soon kicks windows and mac out of the market.

---

### Post by HeadHunter00 on 2009-11-24
> **Zoot7 said:**
> Good thinking! :)
I ran Hardy for nearly a year and a half because it just worked so well. :)

That's because it's an LTS.

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-11-24
> **HeadHunter00 said:**
> I hope ubuntu soon kicks windows and mac out of the market.
If only! Sadly that's not going to happen any time soon.

> **HeadHunter00 said:**
> That's because it's an LTS.
Well LTS's generally aren't more problem free in the first few months of their life. Drapper was once such example - even after delaying the release for 2 months apparently it was a disaster when it hit.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2009-11-24
It seems that, in some people's minds, every release is a disaster when it first appears. I've quit worrying about it. I use what works for me, reports bugs if I can, and let others use what works best for them.

---

### Post by Norm24 on 2009-11-24
A trend I've noticed...I keep seeing the word upgrade.

How many here who are having problems actually have backed up /home and did a clean install?

Backing up vital files and doing a clean install is tit.

---

### Post by Shpongle on 2009-11-24
> **Norm24 said:**
> I must be different.

Karmic is by far the single greatest release of Ubuntu ever.Its really that good for me.

Can't wait for Lucid! ++

---

### Post by DLGandalf on 2009-11-24
I'm not going to do a reinstall, this isn't windows, we have a package manager built to keep track of software, if you need a fresh install for things to work correctly packaging has gone wrong in my opinion.

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-11-24
> **irihapeti said:**
> it seems that, in some people's minds, every release is a disaster when it first appears. I've quit worrying about it. I use what works for me, reports bugs if i can, and let others use what works best for them.
+1

---

### Post by samuelrock on 2009-11-24
First let me say HI to everyone!


I am now an X-Debian user, I have been running Debian as the sole OS one one of my desktops for over a year now and have had at least one pc dual booted with linux from 1996 to now my first distro was Redhat/Mandrake.  My laptop has had linux install off and on over the years but allways in a dual boot with windows. This being said I dont think if my self as a linux guru, I think I am more of a still thinking about it guy ( that has got one foot on the cliff and the other in the air ).

a month or so back I went for it and installed debian as the only OS on my ThinkPad T43 a few weeks into the install i started having trouble with my intel video I tried my best to fix it and looked through help files and faqs before posting that i could not get xorg to quit crashing. to my surprise none of the Debian people would offer help, the only help i got was from Ubuntu users that came over from Debian. I do know that ubuntu is based on debian and that the intel problem can happen to any distro but I was like im going to try ubuntu as i have nothing to lose.

i downloaded 9.10 and poped it in the drive, at the first reboot I did not like the look of grub, as the system booted I was looking at the windows look a like screen just thinking WTF! so I ran if for a day or so and checked out some videos on youtube & edited some pix just anything to make the video crash. all looked good I could not get xorg to drop out, so it looks like a keeper. I then tried to edit the startup screen and get rid of GDM-2.28 and that is where my problems started. ](*,)

So once I ran the magic keyboard all over the installation so much that it was worthless i downloaded a copy of Ubuntu 9.04 and installed it, Things in this ver are more to my likeing!!  As I can add a background to grub with one line in the config, change my login screens, plus my video works flawless out of the box, my 802.11 card woked out of the box.

I dont think I will be switching to 9.10 or any thing newer untill they get the GDM and Grub up to par. It may just be in part the fact that it looks different that I dont like it, but most of the part is that i cant change it. I dont like my machine to look like the next guys!! Now in 9.04 I did have to remove the splash screens and set a password for the root and replace the ubuntu branded gnone bar with the stock bar but hay that is all aesthetics!

I give 9.04 two thumbs up, 9.10 [still needs work]!! also it looks like there is more people on this side the fence, that it self is good for when you are having problems!

---

### Post by Armor Nick on 2009-11-25
I think 9.10 was a cool release, though GNOME upstream was maybe a little less polished than usual with the upcoming 3.0 release. The only flaw was that my wireless drivers weren't working at first but that was easily resolved.

Next time, though, I'm gonna wait for the release of Linux Mint, since it's a polished release of the coolest linux distro ;) .

I also want to commend (if that word means what I think it means) the ubuntu developers for not using GNOME 3.0 for the next release since it's going to be buggy as hell (like any software just released; check kde 4.0)

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-11-25
> **Armor Nick said:**
> I think 9.10 was a cool release, though GNOME upstream was maybe a little less polished than usual with the upcoming 3.0 release. The only flaw was that my wireless drivers weren't working at first but that was easily resolved.

Next time, though, I'm gonna wait for the release of Linux Mint, since it's a polished release of the coolest linux distro ;) .

I also want to commend (if that word means what I think it means) the ubuntu developers for not using GNOME 3.0 for the next release since it's going to be buggy as hell (like any software just released; check kde 4.0)

It means what you think it means.  And I agree.  Gnome 3 would've been awesome to have, but not until the bugs are worked out of it....

---

### Post by harfa on 2009-11-25
definately a step backwards.
yes, i did a fresh install onto its own brand new HDD, was going to transition from my jaunty hdd once I had i set up how i like it. 
not going to bother now. virtualbox on 64 bit karmic is broken, upstart and network manager are broken, other various little things are broken, and trawling through bug reports it seems a lot of things are broken because of various gnome "deprecation" and the attitude of the ubuntu packagers on launchpad seems to be getting worse, and a lot of bug fixes appear to be "lined up for lucid" and destined to stay broken forever on karmic.

those with luck and right hardware combo like it, others with previously working hardware now must just downgrade.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-11-25
> **Armor Nick said:**
> I also want to commend (if that word means what I think it means) the ubuntu developers for not using GNOME 3.0 for the next release

Generous words, but [they didn't have much choice]("http://www.gnome.org/").

> The Release Team announced that **GNOME 3.0 will be released in September 2010**. In the meantime, there will be a GNOME 2.30 release in March 2010, continuing the long-standing tradition of six-months releases that the project has been using successfully.:wink:

---

### Post by lantosg on 2009-11-25
Hi all,

My first experiences were quite good regarding the new release, because I had serious problems with the sound and the mic with Jaunty what have been solved by installing 9.10. On the other side I also experience overheating and automatic shootdown of the computer. If anyone finds a solution for this, please let me know...

Thanks in advance

Gabor

---

### Post by user11 on 2009-11-25
same here, I had 4 systems running 9.10 including my netbook, but I kept getting problems after problems so I fresh installed 9.04. Although, I have to say, xubuntu 9.10 is doing pretty well in my PIII compaq-go figure.

I think they pushed too much for this release, and at the rate of complaints I'm seeing, I'm worried that it's doing harm to the Linux movement. Screen freezes? My old XP box never even did that. Come on guys, starting to look like you pulled a Vista on us.

---

### Post by Methuselah on 2009-11-26
I have a tip for the OP...try running Memtest86.
It is available as an option on the Ubuntu installation CD.
For some reason Karmic seems more prone to crashing from bad memory.
But sometimes that is the underlying problem.

---

### Post by odindio on 2009-11-27
upgrading to karmic has damaged my ability to surf with firefox at a reasonable speed.  I'm back to using Vista.  I'd like to reinstall 9.04, but I can't get my karmic hard drive to boot to it.

---

### Post by josephellengar on 2009-11-27
Most of my gripes with KK are with gnome 2.28 rather than KK itself: movement away from text file customization and towards the gconf "registry," inability to easily customize gdm, loss of the fast-user-switcher applet.  That's pretty much it.  And other than the gconf editor, all of those are easily fixed.  Though once I get a computer that can run it, I will be looking at KDE 4 again to see if it is adequately stable now for me to use.  KDE is soooo much prettier than gnome and I love Plasma.

---

### Post by odindio on 2009-11-29
I see

---

