---
title: "My reserach on how to create a deb package (find it really easy)"
date: 2008-11-28
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by twinklellon on 2008-11-28
After I did some research, I realized that the simplest way to make a deb package is to use "checkinstall".
However, checkinstall can only work with programs with source code because it generates the deb package based on the "Makefile" generated by the "configure".

So at that point, I think we can create a fake Makefile to generate any deb package, and that actually works.

I made a python script to generate the Makefile. Here you go:
debMakefile
[http://myubuntu.dreamhosters.com/download/deb/debmakefile_0.2-1_i386.deb](http://myubuntu.dreamhosters.com/download/deb/debmakefile_0.2-1_i386.deb)

HOW TO USE?

eg. I want to package the win32 codecs.
So I have the win32 codecs in the current directory, and have it renamed as "codecs"

Then generate the Makefile: (codecs will be installed to /usr/lib)
*debMakefile /usr/lib codecs*

Next, get the deb package created:
*checkinstall --install=no --backup=no*

Then, it is done.

More examples about using "debMakefile"
1. it can support multiple directories and files
eg. to have "abc.doc", "def.doc", and folder "Music" installed to /usr/local/etc

[I]debMakefile /usr/local/etc abc.doc def.doc Music
checkinstall --install=no --backup=no[/I]

2. to install into different locations
eg. I wrote 2 scripts; scriptTest1 and scriptTest2. I want to install scriptTest1 into /usr/bin, and scriptTest2 into /usr/local/bin.

[I]debMakefile /usr/bin scriptTest1 > Makefile
debMakefile /usr/local/bin scriptTest2 > Makefile2

awk 'NR>1' Makefile2 >> Makefile[/I]
(combine the two Makefile files)

*checkinstall --install=no --backup=no*

MY Blog:
------------------
[http://myubuntu.dreamhosters.com/]("http://myubuntu.dreamhosters.com/")

---

