---
title: "...I sold my soul to openSUSE and then I stole it back..."
date: 2008-12-01
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by opossumjack on 2008-12-01
I don't know if it is the right place... 
But I just want to renew my appreciation to Ubuntu...

I wanted to try something different, so I installed openSUSE 11...
It was a mess... shortly after the installation I could not update, because the update engine freezed up...
My viedo card was not recognized... so I installed the driver from the official site... It took me 3 hours to make it work.. 
And so on...

So I formatted my HD and downloaded Intrepid... well... It was a dream... everything worked from the moment I finished the installation process... And for my video card... welll, I just enabled the drivers than Ubuntu suggested me...

So, I'm sure I won't try anything different from Ubuntu... Only if I will find a distro with the same support, community support, that will work perfectly from the start, that I can update when I want, and so on... But I'm sure it will be Ubuntu again :)

Keep on supporting Ubuntu :lolflag:

---

### Post by TimboUK on 2008-12-01
Im pleased to hear youve come over to Ubuntu.

I am even more pleased to hear that it was Novell that convinced you to come here!

Novell is (IMO) the official bed partner to Microsoft.  It works with Microsoft, its "supervised" by Microsoft and its the backdoor that MS (IMO) is trying to use to muscle in on the Linux scene.

Look no further than Mono, "Sponsored by Novell" Which to me means "supervised by Novell, watched over by Microsoft"

Now, how much involvement will Ubuntu have in the future with Mono?

Time will tell.

---

### Post by brokenreality on 2008-12-01
I gave up on openSUSE a while back. I stopped using it after 10 was released.

---

### Post by cmay on 2008-12-01
how much did you get for your soul. i am kinda low on cash this month so if you could manage to sell your soul and claim it back later i would like to hear how you did it :)

---

### Post by opossumjack on 2008-12-27
> **cmay said:**
> how much did you get for your soul. i am kinda low on cash this month so if you could manage to sell your soul and claim it back later i would like to hear how you did it :)

eh eh eh eh... :P

---

### Post by solwic on 2008-12-27
> **TimboUK said:**
> Im pleased to hear youve come over to Ubuntu.

I am even more pleased to hear that it was Novell that convinced you to come here!

Novell is (IMO) the official bed partner to Microsoft.  It works with Microsoft, its "supervised" by Microsoft and its the backdoor that MS (IMO) is trying to use to muscle in on the Linux scene.

Look no further than Mono, "Sponsored by Novell" Which to me means "supervised by Novell, watched over by Microsoft"

Now, how much involvement will Ubuntu have in the future with Mono?

Time will tell.

And the conspiracy theories abound!

Seriously though, I think you're right.  Microsoft, no matter what else they may be, is filled with good businessmen.  And a good businessman will have had his eye on Linux for a while - not because it's a real threat to MS (it isn't), but because it exists - and why let it grow to a threat if you can gain control of it while it's young?

I personally like Linux how it is now; servers, and a niche market in desktops.  If it grows to the size of Microsoft, it'll be just like Windows:  over-marketed and bloated and commercialized.  

Anyway, go Ubuntu!  I'm with ya till the bloody end.  :P

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-12-27
> **cmay said:**
> how much did you get for your soul. i am kinda low on cash this month so if you could manage to sell your soul and claim it back later i would like to hear how you did it :)

my soul is too evil to get any real money. wait a minute, that might work....

---

