---
title: "10.04 over 10.10"
date: 2010-10-20
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by quiltface on 2010-10-20
I use the netbook version of ubuntu... and I will have to say 10.04 was way better than 10.10.  I dislike the menu and navigation in 10.10.  I thought 10.04 was easier to navigate and more responsive...  Anyone else feel the same?

---

### Post by marl30 on 2010-10-20
I'm sure most would agree about the netbook edition when comparing 10.10 with 10.04, it's less than to be desired. However, when it comes the desktop version, 10.10 is definitely ahead there.

---

### Post by quiltface on 2010-10-20
I didn't have 10.04 on my laptop (not my netbook) but i put 10.10 on there and found it to be VERY slow... my laptop also sucks and is very old but fedora 13 runs much better.  I don't want to sound like an ubuntu basher because i am not, just voicing some frustrations I've had with the latest version.

---

### Post by Lvcoyote on 2010-10-21
I finally had to ditch 10.10 and go back to 10.04 myself.  10.10 was sluggish to the point of almost not being usable.  Installed on the same Intel X58 based system 10.04 kicks 10.10 badly.  All the problems I had with 10.10 are gone once I reverted back to 10.04.  I guess from now on I'll stick with the LTS releases because honestly before the 10.04LTS release the last version I was really happy with was a LTS also.

I spent a few days chugging along with 10.10 hoping things would get better and even tried a few clean installs but the same slow sluggish performance remained.  

How often do they do LTS releases again??.....LOL

---

### Post by jbluzb86 on 2010-10-21
I do agree on this;

---

### Post by quiltface on 2010-10-22
I put the system monitor in the panel when i was in 10.10 to see if it was the cpu and the cpu was just taxed and i wasn't even doing anything.  I put F13 on and installed the same cpu monitor and it was the complete opposite.  but my main beef is with the netbook version and that lame menu bar on the left hand side.

---

### Post by Lvcoyote on 2010-10-22
> **quiltface said:**
> I put the system monitor in the panel when i was in 10.10 to see if it was the cpu and the cpu was just taxed and i wasn't even doing anything.  I put F13 on and installed the same cpu monitor and it was the complete opposite.  but my main beef is with the netbook version and that lame menu bar on the left hand side.

The high CPU usage would certainly explain why people are complaining of sluggish performance in 10.10.  Something is definitely not right when I can install 10.04 on the same system and not have those kind of issues.

---

### Post by andymorton on 2010-10-22
I don't like the UI on either 10.04 or 10.10 netbook edition. So I just use the standard desktop edition.

---

### Post by rjbl on 2010-10-24
So why the urge to upgrade to every release of Ubuntu, every few months. If I wanted the hassle of rebuilding my personal computing system every couple of months, or years, I'd stick with Windows. I want long term stability. 10.04LTS is the best personal computing environment I've seen in c30 years as a pro. I'll stick with it for as long as possible, thanks. Just not interested in playing with OSes any more.

rjbl

---

### Post by waynefoutz on 2010-10-24
> **Lvcoyote said:**
> I finally had to ditch 10.10 and go back to 10.04 myself.  10.10 was sluggish to the point of almost not being usable.  Installed on the same Intel X58 based system 10.04 kicks 10.10 badly.  All the problems I had with 10.10 are gone once I reverted back to 10.04.  I guess from now on I'll stick with the LTS releases because honestly before the 10.04LTS release the last version I was really happy with was a LTS also.

I spent a few days chugging along with 10.10 hoping things would get better and even tried a few clean installs but the same slow sluggish performance remained.  

How often do they do LTS releases again??.....LOL

Once every two years. The support and security updates end in 3 years, so 10.04 will be around long after 10.10 is killed off, because standard non-LTS versions like 10.10 are only good for 18 months. I agree with sticking to the LTS versions. In fact I just upgraded my 8.04 to 10.04 just yesterday. I don't have the time and energy to waste being a guinea pig. If Lucid works for you, by all means stick with it.

---

### Post by freebeer on 2010-10-24
Urge to upgrade?  I was running 6.04 until there was something in 10.04 that I wanted.  (In my case, it was the LTS.)  6.04 served me so well that I wasn't compelled to move to 8.04.

---

### Post by catlover2 on 2010-10-24
i have a 1.4 GHZ processor, and the only thing that seems sluggish is the ubuntu software centre,
it's slow in 10.10 but wasn't i 10.04...

---

