---
title: "12.10 still not ready yet :-/"
date: 2012-11-28
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Forbees on 2012-11-28
been running 12.04 since it's release, got excited for 12.10

tried it on my media server in 64 bit, and my netbook for 32 bit


both wouldn't boot. i don't remember which, but one of them would boot to an empty background, with mouse, but no click functionality or keyboard. the other wouldn't even get that far

so i'm back to 12.04

i've been seeing a lot of people having problems with 12.10 on Google+. apparently ubuntu has been pushing 12.10 to beat Windows 8. but all reality it seems like they should have just stuck with 12.04

i've been trying to tell people with bad 12.10 experience to try 12.04, but usually at this time they're sick of "playing with linux" and "want a real OS"


i thought by now linux, especially ubuntu, should be pretty hassle free.

i mean even the first distro i tried (7.04) gave me no problems

---

### Post by |{urse on 2012-11-28
Not to be contrary but it's always a good idea to check and make sure ubuntu is ready for your specific hardware.

[http://www.ubuntu.com/certification/desktop/](http://www.ubuntu.com/certification/desktop/)

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-11-28
> apparently ubuntu has been pushing 12.10 to beat Windows 8. but all reality it seems like they should have just stuck with 12.04

Don't mix up things here. 12.04 is an LTS release and therefore expected to be much more stable, while the releases between LTS are considered by Canonical to be more of a playground to try out new things. This has been clearly communicated and should be known to anyone trying such a release. If you don't like it, then stick with LTS and upgrade only from LTS to LTS.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2012-11-28
I don't know how you can come up with the idea that they pushed 12.10 out so it could beat windows 8, as the release schedule for 12.10 had been known and scheduled months to years before windows 8s release date was announced. If anything, Windows 8 was pushed out to compete with 12.10(Most unlikely though).
With one exception, all Ubuntu releases have been pushed out every six months regardless of overall quality. LTS releases are developed and released as stable as possible and enterprise ready, where as non-LTS releases are more like snapshots of where the open-source community is as of that moment.

I haven't had any bad experiences with 12.10, though I haven't run a fresh install, only system upgrades.

Having said that, My main machine is and will still be running 12.04, as what I need is working without problems thus far.
I do expect a performance increase when 12.04 upgrades the kernel to 3.5 series versus the 3.2 series in use now, which should be sometime around January or something.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2012-11-29
Suggesting that non-LTS versions are unstable or betas, begs the  question if users are informed of this prior to install. Not notifying  (at the time of or prior to install) a new user that a non-LTS release  isn't stable or that it's for testing purposes - seems foolish.

Should  a new user go to the download site and acquire the latest release, when  are they notified that it's potentially unstable? I'd be interested in  knowing where this has been fully communicated outside the forums. Not  just a few random sites, but a full disclosure. Does the download site  notify a new user that since it's not an LTS, they may experience  stability or functionality issues? Or, does it simply mention long term  support versus cutting edge new features.

I struggle  understanding why new users would be permitted to download and install  an "unstable" release without notification. This not only raises the  question of notification, but acknowledgment.

Just my $0.02

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-11-29
Non LTS releases are not by design unstable... LTS versions are however by design more stable.


404

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2012-11-29
> **Forbees said:**
>  
i thought by now linux, especially ubuntu, should be pretty hassle free.
 
 
not really since they keep adding new features withouth fixing (most of) old bugs.
 
 
maybe they should have it like joomla. They have 2 large buttons for download. one release is marked as LTS and it is suggested for beginners and those who prefer stability
second button below is STS (short term support) release, ment for those that like to tinker with new stuff, trying out new things or for more advanced users.
 
while cannonical pushes users towards short term support releases. 
on top you will find:
 
> For the latest features,
choose Ubuntu 12.10
Ubuntu 12.10 will be supported for two years and includes cutting-edge new features that make your music, videos, documents and apps much easier to access

 
see no meniton of less stable, more buggy etc.
 
then down to the bottom
>  
For long-term support,
choose Ubuntu 12.04 LTS
Ubuntu 12.04.1 LTS is a long-term support release. While it lacks some new features, it will receive guaranteed support for five years from April 2012. 


 
no meniton of greater stability only guaranteed support.... probably it's not more stable but it should/could be if more bugs got fixed.
 
in joomla its the other way arround on top you will find:
> Download Joomla! 2.5.x (Recommended for most websites)
Joomla 2.5 is the recommended version for most users. It focuses on stability and will be supported into 2014.

 
and on bottom:
>  
Download Joomla! 3.0.x (Recommended for developers and early adopters)
Joomla 3.0 is recommended for more experienced users and developers. It includes cutting edge features.


 
it kind of makes more sense to me. since i know a few things about joomla already i chose the 3.0 to start with but if this was my first time i would definatelly go with 2.5. actually as i remember my first time i did go with old stable.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-11-29
> **mastablasta said:**
> ...
 
maybe they should have it like joomla. They have 2 large buttons for download. one release is marked as LTS and it is suggested for beginners and those who prefer stability
second button below is STS (short term support) release, ment for those that like to tinker with new stuff, trying out new things or for more advanced users.
...
Mozilla has something similar (even though it's just a browser with a 6-week cycle). On [this page]("http://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/channel/#firefox") it's abundantly clear, what is what. Google Chrome also makes it pretty clear.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2012-11-29
Regardless, of why it might be unstable there's still no notification. I think mastablasta's right:

> no meniton of greater stability only guaranteed support.... probably  it's not more stable but it should/could be if more bugs got fixed.

I understand why Canonical would want to push the most recent release, but IMHO they should notify a new user much like Joomla or even Debian does.

From the Debian site[]("http://www.debian.org/"):
> The latest stable release of Debian is 6.0. The last update to this release was made on September 29th, 2012.

However, I doubt this matters. Only mentioned it to point out that when a user comes here to complain - pointing fingers at the stability of a Ubuntu release as justification may not be a good idea.

Just my $0.02

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-12-02
Thanks for sharing.

---

