---
title: "10.04 Not for beginners or non-geeks"
date: 2010-08-10
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Bill Wade on 2010-08-10
I installed 10.04 with liveCD, partitioned my HD, kept XP on other partition...3 TIMES NOW.  Every time, things work great until I close it down or log off, or go to XP.  Then I either get a purple ubuntu screen with nothing or I can't even boot anything ("no partition found").  So I look on all the forums, google, etc.  And get these ridiculous text 'fixes' that, based on the thread doesn't work.  Some of these 'fixes' involve several lines of text commands that only a computer programmer could appreciate or understand.  And people say ubuntu is EASY!!??  Ubuntu wouldn't even cooperate with installing thunderbird.  So very microsoft-ish.  I had to google a solution and succeeded IN SPITE of ubuntu.  How can anyone complain about microsoft and XP when ubuntu doesn't even include mozilla thunderbird with mozilla firefox.  Is it because the ubuntu team wants to coerce people into using the empathy email client (or whatever it is called)?  Unless you want to learn unix text commands (remember ms-dos?), and spend a lot of time relearning otherwise simple tasks (simple in XP), ubuntu is NOT is not for you.

I'm downloading opensuse as I write this.  I will keep trying to solve these persistent and irritating ubuntu problems because I like to learn...but so far ubuntu is a big FAIL.

---

### Post by dabl on 2010-08-10
Nice rant ... I'll give it an 8.9*.  :D


*  -0.7 points due to lack of cursing
   -0.4 points due to failure to use "arrogant" and/or "SOB"

---

### Post by Quackers on 2010-08-10
Classic dabl :-)

---

### Post by badbradmx on 2010-08-10
i really wanna like dabl's post, truely excellent.

in regards to the OP, ubuntu is a lot easier than previous versions and if your really looking something that you are familiar with coming from a windows snail then try linux mint. its very similar to windows from what ive read and heard about on the interwebs.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-08-10
So,welcome to the forum!
If you describe your problems,things get easier.
Is XP still running?Did Ubuntu run once?Did you install any drivers?

---

### Post by gloken on 2010-08-10
> **Bill Wade said:**
> I installed 10.04 with liveCD, partitioned my HD, kept XP on other partition...3 TIMES NOW.  Every time, things work great until I close it down or log off, or go to XP.  Then I either get a purple ubuntu screen with nothing or I can't even boot anything ("no partition found").  So I look on all the forums, google, etc.  And get these ridiculous text 'fixes' that, based on the thread doesn't work.  Some of these 'fixes' involve several lines of text commands that only a computer programmer could appreciate or understand.  And people say ubuntu is EASY!!??  Ubuntu wouldn't even cooperate with installing thunderbird.  So very microsoft-ish.  I had to google a solution and succeeded IN SPITE of ubuntu.  How can anyone complain about microsoft and XP when ubuntu doesn't even include mozilla thunderbird with mozilla firefox.  Is it because the ubuntu team wants to coerce people into using the empathy email client (or whatever it is called)?  Unless you want to learn unix text commands (remember ms-dos?), and spend a lot of time relearning otherwise simple tasks (simple in XP), ubuntu is NOT is not for you.

I'm downloading opensuse as I write this.  I will keep trying to solve these persistent and irritating ubuntu problems because I like to learn...but so far ubuntu is a big FAIL.

I'm assuming from tone that you're not looking for a lot of dialogue here, but hey, here goes nothing.

Ubuntu can be a bit complicated for my taste, and I strongly recommend sticking to the Long Term Support releases instead of hopping to the latest and greatest version. There's debate over how enthusiastic the release cycle should be... but that's going to be an ongoing debate. 

I don't see that the command line is necessary for most users, rather it's icing on the cake for those who do appreciate it. And we are out there. You shouldn't *have* to do much at that level unless you want to though.

Dual Boot is not a simple thing. It sounds like you might be having trouble with the GRUB boot loader. Did Windows provide you with a better boot loader? I doubt it. ;) That kind of thing is fixable, but dual-booting is hardly a basic system set up.

I'm not really sure why OpenSUSE would be better, but good luck with it. Ubuntu is reputedly the most user friendly of the distros.  If you find you want to continue in a more positive direction with Ubuntu, I'd recommend breaking up your post into individual issues and raising them in the appropriate forums. 

People are absurdly helpful here, if you don't step on their toes too much. ;)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-08-10
I suspect you may find OpenSuse even more difficult than you found Ubuntu, but good luck, anyway.

As for your thunderbird rant, if you tried downloading from mozilla direct, that will be the reason for your frustrating problem.

Forget your old windows ways, and open up synaptic package manager from System ->Administration then search for thunderbird in that.  Installing anything is so much easier in ubuntu than in windows once you realise that it is all done totally differently.  You don't download from the web, except for a very few things, that you are unlikely to need at this stage of your ubuntu life.

I am also surprised that your dual boot did not go better than it did for you.  XP is just about the easiest version of windows to dual boot with ubuntu, so I suspect your must have done something wrong with the grub installation.  If you are still unsure what that problem is, but are able to get ubuntu to boot, download the boot-info-script shown in my signature and run it according to the instructions on the site, then post the RESULTS.txt file back here.

I suppose you may say that this is just another example of the geekiness of ubuntu, and that you can't be bothered to try, but it can give a mass of useful diagnostic information so we can help you, if you want help, of course.

---

### Post by Bill Wade on 2010-08-10
I appreciate all the early good natured responses.  Some blogs would have ripped me.  I chose ubuntu because I read in several places that it was sooo easy to install.  I'm not totally computer illiterate; I've added HDs for data repository, installed lots of applications, reformatted HDs, and reinstalled windows, moved mozilla profiles manually, etc.  But this ubuntu install is starting to get to me in light of my expectation that it was going to be so much more 'stable' than windows.  And by stable, I mean no problems, like with booting to ubuntu or windows, gnome panel working consistently, not in just failsafe mode, easy gui install of, as a minimum, open software such as thunderbird, etc.  So thanks for your thick skin.

---

### Post by badbradmx on 2010-08-10
your problems seem to contradict the vast majority of people, ive installed ubuntu on a few computers, no problems, only trouble i have is with one HDD which i think must be dying as the install crashes at the partition editor, everytime.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2010-08-11
thread moved to testimonials 

support moved to abt

---

### Post by linux18 on 2010-08-11
> **Bill Wade said:**
> I appreciate all the early good natured responses.  Some blogs would have ripped me.  I chose ubuntu because I read in several places that it was sooo easy to install.  I'm not totally computer illiterate; I've added HDs for data repository, installed lots of applications, reformatted HDs, and reinstalled windows, moved mozilla profiles manually, etc.  But this ubuntu install is starting to get to me in light of my expectation that it was going to be so much more 'stable' than windows.  And by stable, I mean no problems, like with booting to ubuntu or windows, gnome panel working consistently, not in just failsafe mode, easy gui install of, as a minimum, open software such as thunderbird, etc.  So thanks for your thick skin.
It has been said by the wise ones that power users of windows will have been corrupted by the evil empire and shut out from ways of open source. You need to free your mind, you need to open your eyes; experience on windows does not translate to linux. By thinking the way the empire of Microsoft has taught you, you have subconsciously set yourself up for failure - exactly what *they *want.

Breath deep and take the plunge into an unknown universe previously invisible and absorb the prerequisite knowledge required before creating opinion about subjective subjects. Now reincarnate yourself not as a disgruntled, frustrated first time ubuntu user, but as an impartial observer seeking answers in a vast library of knowledge. Rethink your approach and restate your questions by looking for answers not an argument, then you will have achieved victory over your what ails your mind.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2010-08-11
Unless there is bug and it will remain unsloved until someone with the knowledge solves it.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2010-08-11
I think this thread is actually from non-power user. 
 
Ubuntu can be a pain especially with older/old and very latest hardware.

---

### Post by Bill Wade on 2010-08-11
linux 18,

I have been using open source applications for about 8 to 10 years. Openoffice, Firefox, and Thunderbird were all 'easy' to install and use immediately with very few issues (as I recall with my failing memory).  I've been using these open source applications in lieu of MS products and have been very satisfied with them.  My only beef with ubuntu and the ubuntu proponents is the false expectation hyped to windows users that ubuntu is the 'easy' answer.  God only knows how many poor unsuspecting victims have totally ruined their systems and lost all their data when they finally raised the white flag and reformatted their HD and reinstalled windows.  But, I have not given up, yet.  I continue to try to understand, but I am going to try opensuse today (downloaded last night) because it is billed as a more established and packaged distro...I'll see if it lives up to its hype. Thanks.

---

### Post by KdotJ on 2010-08-11
How the hell did you have trouble installing Thunderbird? If you find it geeky or challenging to type "thunderbird" into a search box and click "install", then maybe ubuntu isn't for you. 

Your problem is not ubunu, it's you not knowing what you have to do. 

Ubunu is NOT windows

---

### Post by Thomas Garman on 2010-08-11
HA!  If you have those problems with UBUNTU I would just love to see you bungle your way through the OpenSUSE installer.  Definitely not for beginners.
 
And then try getting connected to WIFI with that network manager... ha ha ha.

---

### Post by TNT1 on 2010-08-11
> **KdotJ said:**
> 

**Your problem is not ubunu, it's you not knowing what you have to do. **

Ubunu is NOT windows


Hit the nail on the head there. I have found 10.04 to be the very best, easiest to use, and most stable OS I have ever used, but I have found over the years I think the way unix thinks, and I struggle to think (I always have) the way windows thinks...

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2010-08-11
> **TNT1 said:**
> Hit the nail on the head there. I have found 10.04 to be the very best, easiest to use, and most stable OS I have ever used, but I have found over the years I think the way unix thinks, and I struggle to think (I always have) the way windows thinks...
 
 
You see here is the thing... when you use windows you don't have to think.:D Everything is done for you. and once it's done all you need to do is use it instead of battle with it.
 
I would like to see an install, set up and forget system with Ubuntu. (probably preinstalled systems only huh?).
 
Just like i have it with Win and Ubuntu on previous motherboard....
 
I am more interested in usage of programs that run on the system than the system itself. i don't want to spend my time dealing with OS after install.

---

### Post by dabl on 2010-08-11
> **Bill Wade said:**
> 

I read in several places that it was sooo easy to install. 



I don't know why anyone would write such crap.  It is only easy to install if you know what you're doing, i.e. if you have experience installing Linux.  Otherwise you'd have to be very, very lucky to come up with a clean, reliable installation the first time you tried it.

I do believe the current crop of Linux distributions are "easy to use" -- I even had to put that in quotes, because there are some people on this earth who have no business putting their hands on a keyboard or mouse, regardless of what OS is running.  But, a person with more than casual familiarity with Linux must have already installed and configured it, before the new user can be turned loose on it.  Then a novice can use it, with the same reasonable amount of instruction that any new computer user would require.

---

### Post by pbpersson on 2010-08-11
> **badbradmx said:**
> if your really looking something that you are familiar with coming from a windows snail then try linux mint. its very similar to windows from what ive read and heard about on the interwebs.

Linux Mint is just Ubuntu with a layer of EASY on top.  I still use Synaptic Package Manager to install all the software.  I use Mint so maybe I have a little less drama in my life.  It has worked flawlessly for me, except for a few web sites like Hulu which I think is a waste of time anyway so I don't need it.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-08-11
> **Thomas Garman said:**
> HA!  If you have those problems with UBUNTU I would just love to see you bungle your way through the OpenSUSE installer.  Definitely not for beginners.
 
And then try getting connected to WIFI with that network manager... ha ha ha.

...and,the opensuse forum is not as beginner-friendly as this community nor
is it as much frequented.If you had given some more informations,your boot problem might be solved yet..   ;-)

---

### Post by Thelinuxgeek on 2010-08-11
Well, something to keep in mind is that Ubuntu is free. would you rather spend a crapload of money on a windows OS and have it crash, or not spend a penny on a linux OS and have it crash? Ubuntu really is easy, it's just not compatible with some hardware and so it gets bugs sometimes.
 
AMD athlon II x4 635 2.9 GHZ quad-core
ASUS m4a88-t MOBO
ATI Radeon HD 4890
2 TB HDD
650 Watt PSU
Ubuntu 10.04, MS Windows 7 Ultimate

---

### Post by Nick_Jinn on 2010-08-11
> **Bill Wade said:**
> I installed 10.04 with liveCD, partitioned my HD, kept XP on other partition...3 TIMES NOW.  Every time, things work great until I close it down or log off, or go to XP.  Then I either get a purple ubuntu screen with nothing or I can't even boot anything ("no partition found").  So I look on all the forums, google, etc.  And get these ridiculous text 'fixes' that, based on the thread doesn't work.  Some of these 'fixes' involve several lines of text commands that only a computer programmer could appreciate or understand.  And people say ubuntu is EASY!!??  Ubuntu wouldn't even cooperate with installing thunderbird.  So very microsoft-ish.  I had to google a solution and succeeded IN SPITE of ubuntu.  How can anyone complain about microsoft and XP when ubuntu doesn't even include mozilla thunderbird with mozilla firefox.  Is it because the ubuntu team wants to coerce people into using the empathy email client (or whatever it is called)?  Unless you want to learn unix text commands (remember ms-dos?), and spend a lot of time relearning otherwise simple tasks (simple in XP), ubuntu is NOT is not for you.

I'm downloading opensuse as I write this.  I will keep trying to solve these persistent and irritating ubuntu problems because I like to learn...but so far ubuntu is a big FAIL.



Try Linux Mint. Its released after Ubuntu and does some of the work for you. Its basically Ubuntu with training wheels, or Ubuntu with Codecs and a few tweaks that make life easier, and its more updated by default but released later.


Try Mint if Ubuntu was too hard for you.

---

### Post by dabl on 2010-08-11
> **Bill Wade said:**
> 

  Then I either get a purple ubuntu screen with nothing or I can't even boot anything ("no partition found"). 



To be totally un-original "Mint, Schmint!"

This is obviously a Grub configuration problem for the OP's multi-OS installation.  SUSE uses Grub.  Mint uses Grub.  This situation is very unlikely to be straightened out by grabbing around at every other Linux Live CD on Distrowatch.

Here's a link to a lengthy Grub 2 guidance document -- there are all kinds of useful tidbits in there.  It's _not_ easy, but it also is not beyond the ability of the average human to comprehend -- even old burnouts like me can get it:

[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3106368.0](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3106368.0)

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2010-08-11
You think Ubuntu is difficult ... now ! .... 

Compared to a few years ago  ..... NOW its a breeze.

You maybe need something like Zorin or Mint 9 ...... and if they are too hard to use .... well 

SUSE is going to prove to be FUN for you ...........

________________________________________

Mints GRUB2 does pick up things a lot better for multi boot ......  especially on USB drives ......

I would not go grabbing at other Distros ..... if MINT does not work then you may need some help

but I am not sure that is what you seek ..... as I see none of your replies telling us what it is you need to solve .....

I think that you really need to try MINT ..... ? SUSE 11.3  .... ?

I will be looking on the [SUSE forum]("http://forums.opensuse.org/") to see what you have to say about it

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2010-08-11
> **Bill Wade said:**
> linux 18,

I have been using open source applications for about 8 to 10 years. Openoffice, Firefox, and Thunderbird were all 'easy' to install and use immediately with very few issues (as I recall with my failing memory).  I've been using these open source applications in lieu of MS products and have been very satisfied with them.  My only beef with ubuntu and the ubuntu proponents is the false expectation hyped to windows users that ubuntu is the 'easy' answer.  God only knows how many poor unsuspecting victims have totally ruined their systems and lost all their data when they finally raised the white flag and reformatted their HD and reinstalled windows.  But, I have not given up, yet.  I continue to try to understand, but I am going to try opensuse today (downloaded last night) because it is billed as a more established and packaged distro...I'll see if it lives up to its hype. Thanks.

Bill, I recommend you slow down and think before you try to install openSuSE. It's a good distro, but it's not as easy to install as Ubuntu. I've found that Ubuntu will support most computers out of the box. For the ones it doesn't its usually the video card (Nvidia/ATI). Some WIFI network cards also cause problems. From what I've read so far you have not told us anything about your computer. I would suggest that you post some information about your system (computer), type of video card/WIFI to start with to get you up and running in GNOME with network access. I would also recommend that you read up on SYNAPTIC Package Manager. You should be able to locate and install most all open source programs form there, including thunderbird, without adding any extra repos. You might also want to get a good book on Linux System Management, but than they also have these forums which can answer most questions. Just remember that 99% of the time it isn't linux that trashes a system but the person who install the OS without advance knowledge.

---

### Post by Nick_Jinn on 2010-08-11
Definitely try Mint or Zorin over Suse.

PCLinux might be another user friendly choice, though not as good looking as mint out of the box.

---

### Post by TNT1 on 2010-08-11
> **mastablasta said:**
> You see here is the thing... when you use windows you don't have to think.:D Everything is done for you. and once it's done all you need to do is use it instead of battle with it.
 
I would like to see an install, set up and forget system with Ubuntu. (probably preinstalled systems only huh?).
 
Just like i have it with Win and Ubuntu on previous motherboard....
 
I am more interested in usage of programs that run on the system than the system itself. i don't want to spend my time dealing with OS after install.

True... Maybe I was getting subconsciously frustrated with not being able to use my brain all those years...

And your last point? That's what 10.04 does for me, I don't have to fiddle with it, bugger it into submission, to use my laptop. It just works. 

Oh, and the OP, WTF? 10.04 was difficult to install? I reinstalled XP and Vista the other day on some machines, that was painful... restart after restart, stupid pointless fill in form after stupid pointless fill in form... After reading this thread I installed a clean 10.04 on a test pc at work, was like falling down it was so simple and linear.

---

### Post by Nick_Jinn on 2010-08-11
What I HATE HATE HATE about a fresh windows install is that I have to manually hunt down everything I need....AVG antivirus, Spybot, flash codecs, a good DVD burner, install Neuro (but wont work in 7), install the drivers from the motherboard (and pray I have the disk since its a pain getting them from Asus), and I have to hunt them down from the far reaches of the internet.


Dont we appreciate how easy we have it with Synaptic? Granted, unless we can find a deb file that contains all dependencies, compiling apps from source is a PITA or PITSH, but you can get good at it....its not essential though. Most people can get by with Synaptic at most, if not just from the software manager. Its all point and click and a lot more user friendly than windows in that regard....yes, getting those odd software to work in Linux sometimes takes doing if its not a native format, but its awesome that you CAN get it to work. Try getting linux to work in Windows. Linux is way more flexible and compatible than windows is.

The only real advantage Windows has is its user base. If the world was all using deb files, Linux would be easy and Windows would be nearly impossible to use.

---

### Post by TNT1 on 2010-08-11
> **Nick_Jinn said:**
> What I HATE HATE HATE about a fresh windows install is that I have to manually hunt down everything I need....AVG antivirus, Spybot, flash codecs, a good DVD burner, install Neuro (but wont work in 7), install the drivers from the motherboard (and pray I have the disk since its a pain getting them from Asus), and I have to hunt them down from the far reaches of the internet.


Dont we appreciate how easy we have it with Synaptic? Granted, unless we can find a deb file that contains all dependencies, compiling apps from source is a PITA or PITSH, but you can get good at it....its not essential though. Most people can get by with Synaptic at most, if not just from the software manager. Its all point and click and a lot more user friendly than windows in that regard....yes, getting those odd software to work in Linux sometimes takes doing if its not a native format, but its awesome that you CAN get it to work. Try getting linux to work in Windows. Linux is way more flexible and compatible than windows is.

The only real advantage Windows has is its user base. If the world was all using deb files, Linux would be easy and Windows would be nearly impossible to use.

Well said. 

I fiddle a lot with my pc (mostly I just like seeing what's what, what works, how much more I can fiddle - so completely unlike windows...), but on my wife's, and kid's, using lucid, I haven't installed anything from source, only through synaptic or software center, and they haven't had any issues.


And this monday past, I upgraded (actually I put the alternate upgrade cd in, selected the option to start upgrade, selected the option to use the network connection, and went home - he called later when it was finished and said it was awesome, just weirded out how the min/max/close buttons had moved to the left of the window...) my old man's pc from karmic to lucid and he's as happy as a pig in you know what.

---

### Post by TNT1 on 2010-08-11
Oh, yeah, and like everyone is saying, try something else before opensuse... It's an awesome distro, but like Fedora (which is epic) is not for the fainthearted...

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-08-11
Before recommending he try ANY distro, the very first issue needs to be worked out (Grub issue with dual boot) to prevent the possibility of losing any data on either partition. Post an explanation of what is happening when you boot so it can be worked with assistance here. Installing another distro and making any mistake with the partitions could cause you to overwrite the very partition (XP) you are trying to protect. Fixing Grub will at least get you into the Ubuntu partition where you can work the issues or at least identify the state of your machine and the path you choose to take to fix it.
 
Easy install does not mean easy protection of data so be certain you are on the correct partition when you install another distro, regardless which one you choose. For me PCLinuxOS 2010 and Mint are easiest of any to install, reinstall, reconfigure, screw up and then fix. Ubuntu is only a tad behind because of all the extras you have to add after install (codecs, java, etc.) if you are not familiar with how each distro is unique. It's not hard at all, just an extra step or two those others set you up with out of the box.
 
Since you are new to Linux I recommend posting the issues and working with the various responses to resolve issues one by one. Once fixed, decide to stay, go, change distros, whatever, but at least then your machine will be operating normally and then you will have perspective to decide where to go from here. No distro is best....it's relative to what works best for you with your hardware, experience, patience, skills and determination.
 
Best of luck...keep the skin thick while you learn and ask questions :)

---

### Post by blur xc on 2010-08-11
> **Nick_Jinn said:**
> What I HATE HATE HATE about a fresh windows install is that I have to manually hunt down everything I need....AVG antivirus, Spybot, flash codecs, a good DVD burner, install Neuro (but wont work in 7), install the drivers from the motherboard (and pray I have the disk since its a pain getting them from Asus), and I have to hunt them down from the far reaches of the internet.


Dont we appreciate how easy we have it with Synaptic? Granted, unless we can find a deb file that contains all dependencies, compiling apps from source is a PITA or PITSH, but you can get good at it....its not essential though. Most people can get by with Synaptic at most, if not just from the software manager. Its all point and click and a lot more user friendly than windows in that regard....yes, getting those odd software to work in Linux sometimes takes doing if its not a native format, but its awesome that you CAN get it to work. Try getting linux to work in Windows. Linux is way more flexible and compatible than windows is.

The only real advantage Windows has is its user base. If the world was all using deb files, Linux would be easy and Windows would be nearly impossible to use.

Oh yeah- I can totally relate to that...  I recently did a clean install of Win7 64bit on my work laptop, which previously had XP preintalled by Dell on it.  The install of Win7 was very painless and extremely fast (shockingly fast), but then the next half day and off/on throughout the next week was spent hunting down which drivers I needed from the Dell website, installing AV software (which took a couple hours on the phone w/ tech support since it's Win7 64bit), installing my software (also- many hours on the phone w/ tech support, and at the command prompt, btw), etc.. etc..  I will give some credit to MS though, some of the drivers I needed, Win7 went and downloaded them and installed them on its own from the Dell website...  All said and done, my laser printer can't do two sided printing, and my 1gigabit lan card only runs at 100mbits.  Hopefully Dell will come out with a better driver and get me back at gigabit speeds again soon.

So yeah- the grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.  All but one of my Ubutnu installs (even my first one when I knew nothing of Linux) went w/o any problems.  The only one that continues to give me grief is a netbook with poorly supported hardware.

BM

---

### Post by badbradmx on 2010-08-11
ubuntu is easy to install and dual boot, i mean im using my first linux install now, compiz works, everything but the multimedia keys work, and i know they can be a bitch to get going, ive got used to them not working anyway and totally forgot about them.

---

### Post by Jazzy_Jeff on 2010-08-11
> **badbradmx said:**
> ubuntu is easy to install and dual boot, i mean im using my first linux install now, compiz works, everything but the multimedia keys work, and i know they can be a bitch to get going, ive got used to them not working anyway and totally forgot about them.

What brand of keyboard are you using? I use Logitech and they are very well supported under Linux.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2010-08-11
The op has a support thread [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1550451"). If you would like to help then post in that thread.
Thread closed. :)

---

