---
title: "11.10 and my laptop"
date: 2011-10-30
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Lixuzgreen on 2011-10-30
Hey  I'm pretty new to ubuntu but consider myself pretty computer literate. Not sure where to post this or if this is the kind of feedback you like, I'm presenting right etc. But I'd like to share my experience of ubuntu 11.10 and I'll try to supply as many details as possible.  My laptop is a compaq presario cq61-320SA. It has an AMD Athlon Dual-Core processor. 4 GB RAM. Ran with windows 7 quite happily for a long time (ultimate). And now I'm running ubuntu 11.04 with very few problems.  First time I installed 11.10 was from an upgrade and was the 64 bit version. This is the one I used the most where I experienced the bulk of my problems. I later clean installed it from disk but 32 bit version this time. Experienced much of the same issues. So basically at times, a lot more was going wrong than right. There were many times I couldn't open Brasaro to burn a disc, open my cd rom drive, load a cd (or it would take a while), had constant crashing on both firefox and chrome, overall crashes of OS, general slowness, wouldn't support my playstation eye cam out of box but perhaps could have been solved, kept disconnecting from internet and would ask for password everytime. That's about it really.  With 11.04. I don't have many of these problems very often. My pseye camera works straight away as long as I have it in before I boot my computer. So no major complaints. One very minor fault I noticed was that when you go to startup applications, edit, browse, the scroll bar doesn't work. Hope this info helps some. Thanks

---

### Post by Elfy on 2011-10-30
Thread moved to Ubuntu Testimonials & Experiences.

Thanks for the input.

---

