---
title: "8.04 upgrade nightmare"
date: 2008-08-19
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by LTFC2020 on 2008-08-19
yesterday I foolishly decided to upgrade 7.10 to 8.04 via the update manager
there goes 5 or 6 hours of my life I won't get back
the problem was updating the locales which I had to kill which meant I lost all my english to japanese toggle settings - as this was happening the recollection of how much tweaking this had taken to set up in the first place came flooding back :shock:
hours of google searching/ forum questions didn't come up with anything like a suitable solution (rare with ubuntu forums thankfully)
only burning a new cd iso and installing from scratch sorted out the issues and now I am beginning the process of restoring my system, to some degree, to the one I had fine tuned over 4 months (since I started using ubuntu)
won't be doing that again ](*,)
at least the fact that 8.04 is a LTS can be of some comfort:wink:

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-08-19
I hate to be the one to say I told you so :)

The thing to do now is to set up a backup regimen and stick to it. Over the years I have done the same thing as you many,many times, but I have always had at least two backups of all my important files.

Another thing I would suggest is to keep a note book of things you've done, so it makes it easier to help recreate the config files, at least, just in case your backups on media that is no longer available don't work any more eg: 5¼ floppies, 3¼ floppies, zip disks or even cd-roms.

I have three external hard drives that are used exclusively for backups. I learned a long, long, long time ago that  that it is a real pain to do things all over again, just because you don't have proper backups. I may be a little anal about it, but I take comfort in knowing that my oldest backup is only three days old.

Jim

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-08-19
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I hate to be the one to say I told you so :)

Then don't ;)

And moved to Testimonials & Experiences, sorry to hear you had a bad time of it

---

### Post by Antman on 2008-08-19
> **LTFC2020 said:**
> at least the fact that 8.04 is a LTS can be of some comfort:wink: True... this is one of the reasons I will stick with Hardy on my main desktop PC. I just don't feel like tinkering with stuff on it anymore. I need Hardy to be a rock for 3 years.... than I will move to the next LTS version.:KS
That is unless SLackware or Zenwalk keep whispering in my ear. lol

---

### Post by vikramaditya on 2008-08-19
Sorry your config settings got hosed! :(  I've never "updated" from one ubuntu distro to another, I always just clean-install.  Even with Windows®, I just can't stand the thought of trying to track down all the orphaned, broken crap that will undoubtedly be spread all over creation afterwards.  However, if you have another hdd with sufficient space, a disk image is a great way to go for backing up your old system.

---

### Post by dfme on 2008-08-19
hey LTFC2020. i had the exact same issue with 3 separate machines. it seems like the archive file of locales is corrupt! i could bypass the problem by calling the following commands:
```
sudo dpkg --purge locales
```
```
sudo dpkg --configure -a
```
```
sudo apt-get update
```
```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

hope i can help someone else who's got the problem

---

