---
title: "7.10 on a T61p ... good job and thank you all"
date: 2008-02-29
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by miahmouse on 2008-02-29
I'll start off by saying that I'm by no means a superuser/poweruser of any kind in the linux world, all knowledge approaching anything of that nature has been long forgotten.  The last experience I had with it (Mandrake/RedHat)was back in college and at the time installation on a desktop was difficult, laptops were a pipedream that only the most advanced would attempt and it was discovered that "winmodems" presented a problem.... yep, its been a while...

So my brandy new laptop arrives and while I first took it on as a challenge to tweak around with vista, after a few short minutes I realized that regardless of how well I got it to run that XP would still do the job better... and faster.  With no XP disks at the ready and the wireless connection locking up every 2 minutes I decided the "toy" would be ubuntu.  Mumbling a string of Vista-hating profanities that would make a longshoreman blush I plugged into the router and began the download.  

Install:
The only hiccup that I had was that I had to use the graphics safe mode... everything else went smoothly.  On the first boot I was surprised that nearly everything was working.  The few things that weren't were easily resolved through the help of the forums.  After one reload, I now have a fully functioning system that I'd have to say I'm quite impressed with.  Its no longer a toy, it actually works!

Issues and resolutions:
Sound buttons not working - Somehow the controls hooked themselves into a non-existent microphone.   A bit of clicking around and fiddling and somehow it works.
Nvidia drivers - a bit of a non issue as they loaded but not quite correctly.  Initially was unable to adjust the brightness.  A quick search through the forums and "Envy" was found, installed and the issue is resolved.  A big thanks to its maker, a much smarter man than I.
DVD - The first attempt at resolving this resulted in a miserable failure.  Going through the add/remove programs resulted in not being able to add any of the cd/dvd software or codecs.  Noting that my hardware was incompatible or that there was incompatible software on the system.  Searching through the forums I attempted one of the howto's on installing medibuntu packages, no dice.  In my fiddlings I managed to mess up the package manager to the point where nearly everything I tried resulted in an error of some sort and then the package manager saying it was corrupt.  After a reinstall, more browsing through the forums to find the holy grail of my issue resolvers... "QuickStart" from mdpalow.  Minutes later and the last of the problems is fully resolved.  

Again, I have to say that I'm impressed.  Both by the developers and the members of this forum.  Good job all...

---

### Post by wPwLUi3N on 2008-03-28
You are most welcome!!!

---

