---
title: "11.10 Plus Gnome-shell works fine!"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by CJ56 on 2011-10-19
Well, I've been using 11.10 + Gnome-shell for a while now, and believe it or not, it's been absolutely solid & a real pleasure to use. I like Unity & think it's a definite step forward, but the 11.10 version was a bit slow and buggy on my system, with some tearing, which it never had in 11.04.

So a switch to Gnome-shell - and the experience is much improved. I know Gnome-shell's a bit austere, and you have to hunt around for extensions to make it properly usable, but once you accept that you're going to do things the Gnome way, it just gets better and better. Very very responsive, very smooth, very stable, very professional, everything nicely integrated.

Add that to Ubuntu, which is so easy to install and has the best fonts in the business, and it all makes perfect sense. If Unity isn't working out, go for the full Gnome-shell and see if you like it...

---

### Post by WorLord on 2011-10-19
> **CJ56 said:**
>  I know Gnome-shell's a bit austere, and you have to hunt around for extensions to make it properly usable

This is all true.  

In the end, I left Gnome-Shell.  The entire "Activities" area is what killed it for me.  Everything about that area is terrible, especially on a large screen.  That absolutely just did not work out for me, at all, and I kept accidentally triggering it by mousing over to the left-hand corner.  Some other bad things: I kept missing messages.  I had video tearing (with no way to adjust the compositor to fix it).  Every window has a LOT of wasted real-estate space - buttons are huge, widgets are very spaced out, the pull-down menus are huge.  

On the upside: it is absolutely stable, I *love* the overall aesthetic, it is very usable with the addition of a dock, and the resource usage (primarily RAM) is the lightest of any fully-integrated desktop I've ever seen.  Under 400M on my systems.  A lot of people say XFCE is lighter, but that's kind of a myth, as sooner or later you're going to use a Gnome application, which loads Gnome libraries, and by the time you get there you're taking up as much RAM as KDE.  

So: its good, but I think Unity corrects everything I don't like about it.

---

### Post by ekaspar on 2011-10-19
I went back to good old Gnome classic. I sure hope that UI stays around for a while; it works real well for me.

---

