---
title: "8.10 is new but not better in my opinion."
date: 2008-11-19
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Tex786 on 2008-11-19
Hi,

I have been trying 8.10 off and on all month and I keep wanting to go back to Hardy... 8.10 has a lot of great new stuff but for the things i would like for my system to do, its no longer doing them as well.

I have my hardy CD next to my keyboard but wanted to post this before I "backgraded" my computer from 8.10

The fact that I can not get Cairo-Dock up and running is a big reason I am going back. 8.04 just felt better to me. Its what i started on when I was new to Ubuntu 7 months ago..

Anyone wanna try and make me stop? :-D Lets talk about it...

---

### Post by Melindrea on 2008-11-19
Why stop you? =) If you prefer Hardy, then go for it! I have Hardy on my laptop, since I couldn't get SKype to work with Ibex, and I need Skype. However, my desktop has no working sound in Hardy either anymore, so I installed Ibex on that one, to look it over. Go with whatever you feel works best for you!

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-11-19
In some cases Intrepid was better for some people, in some other cases Intrepid made it worse.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-11-20
it's all about choice :)

---

### Post by frankleeee on 2008-11-20
Hardy would not run without freezing on my Ibm a21m laptop, but Intrepid has not caused a single problem.

---

### Post by waspbr on 2008-11-20
what exactly is wrong? Personally  there is nothing that I was able to do in hardy that I can't do in intrepid (cairo dock included).

maybe we can help

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2008-11-20
I just put Hardy on a laptop I gave a friend. I put it on because
it is LTS and he is not accomplished in any system.  I find now that
ibex might have been a better choice for that particular laptop but
Hardy is still LTS.

---

