---
title: "9.10 is EXPLICATIVELY EXCELLENT!!!!"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by starcannon on 2009-10-30
Wow!
Really, FRIGGIN WOW!!
Best release ever!!!

WOOT!

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-10-30
> **starcannon said:**
> Wow!
Really, FRIGGIN WOW!!
Best release ever!!!

WOOT!

Calm down...have some dip.  

I agree though.  It is pretty "friggin wow" :lolflag:

Enjoy.  :biggrin:

---

### Post by ukripper on 2009-10-30
> **starcannon said:**
> Wow!
Really, FRIGGIN WOW!!
Best release ever!!!

WOOT!

Can you elaborate your experience bit more than that?

---

### Post by verv87 on 2009-10-30
*Explicatively*

---

### Post by bradthewanderer on 2009-10-30
I agree with StarCannon WOW!

---

### Post by Entropy_Sam on 2009-10-30
OMG! OMG! MEEE TOOOOOO!!!!
 
*sigh*
 
Seriously though, I'm very impressed with what I've seen so far of Karmic.
 
"Jaunty" felt like a very good description for that release - I was getting numerous issues, including some serious crashes and issues with video/audio playback which finally led to me giving up entirely and installing the W7 RC.
 
By comparison, Karmic is sleeker, stabler and faster.
 
I did have two issues yesterday, and one of them was entirely my own fault:
 
1) GRUB2 wasn't installed manually along with Karmic. Could have been my error, but I could've sworn I checked "Install Bootloader" during hte install progress. It was lucky I'd just skimmed thread in the tutorials section of these forums on GRUB2 - I booted the LiveCD and manually installed it from there (following the tutorial).
 
2) Stupid, comical n00b mistake on my part: Mucking around with the advanced compiz settings, I successfully set the opacity of all normal windows to 0. Why on earth was '0' the default setting for that? I only clicked "OK" to look at the criteria code that was generated, and suddenly ALL my windows were invisible. Luckily, I was able to turn compiz off, as the "Appearance" window must be a Dialog window instead (phew). Suppose logging in in low-graphics mode would have let me fix it, too, but I didn't think of that at the time. All I could think in the moment was was "DAMN! I need to reinstall EVERYTHING now!"

---

### Post by Comhra on 2009-10-30
I agree with all, a triumph.

---

### Post by j7%&lt;RmUg on 2009-10-30
I currently find karmic a much more polished release than any previous one, my sound now works out of the box, the gdm and bootsplash look awesome and to top it all off my computer now runs ALOT faster thanks to ext4 and 64-bit.

Only two tiny issues iv had so far, my internet seems a little sluggish, alot of people seem to have reported this, but its no biggy since it seems to download at the same speed anyway.

Also my shutdown gdm corrupted upon burning the ISO, but that was my fault i think.

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-10-30
> **nisshh said:**
> I currently find karmic a much more polished release than any previous one, my sound now works out of the box, the gdm and bootsplash look awesome and to top it all off my computer now runs ALOT faster thanks to ext4 and 64-bit.

Only two tiny issues iv had so far, my internet seems a little sluggish, alot of people seem to have reported this, but its no biggy since it seems to download at the same speed anyway.

Also my shutdown gdm corrupted upon burning the ISO, but that was my fault i think.

+1 to all of that.  I only have one minor issue, and that's that once every session I get dropped from my wireless connection...usually at boot up.  It'll connect, then disconnect, then reconnect and stay connected until my next power up.  It did this with Jaunty, too.

My girlfriend's Dell (Windows XP...I know, I know) doesn't have the issue, so it's either Ubuntu or my crappy wireless card...the router seems to be fine.  

Other than that, I'm very, very pleased with Karmic.  :biggrin:

---

### Post by premamotion on 2010-01-02
:popcorn: Enjoying it!

---

### Post by 1roxtar on 2010-01-02
I love Karmic Koala (9.10), too.  Jaunty, which was my intro to Linux, was impressive in itself.  I had absolutely no issues with any of the machines I installed it on.  When Karmic came along, I became the local cheerleader for everything Ubuntu.  I'm excited to see what Lucid Lynx (10.4 LTS) has in store for us.  

I had some sound issues the first time I installed Ubuntu 9.10 on a computer.  The fix......plug my speaker in the right port, idiot!!!  Hahaha!!!  I've had no issues with 9.10.

:lolflag:

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2010-01-02
> **1roxtar said:**
> 

I had some sound issues the first time I installed Ubuntu 9.10 on a computer.  The fix......plug my speaker in the right port, idiot!!!  Hahaha!!!

I've had my share of "duh" moments with computers. Especially after a few beers. ;)

But anyways, every release of ubuntu is the best OS I've ever used. Karmic!

---

### Post by gabo.cr on 2010-01-02
I am very impressed by Karmic also.
I just had a small problem with Compiz but it is working now.
I am glad I moved from Hardy to Karmic.
Can't wait for Lucid Lynx !!!

---

### Post by armandh on 2010-01-04
having passed through the November and December testing phase

9.10 is officially WOW rather than !@#$%&*


thanks [all you all] who jumped right in like canaries in the mine.

.

---

### Post by eveningsky339 on 2010-01-04
When I was about to plunge into Ubuntu, everyone kept advising me to avoid any of the 9.x releases, as they were not "fully tested" yet.  Ignoring them, I went right to Karmic, and I agree... WOW!

Unlike Windows, where I need to download drivers just to get on the internet (the irony is crushing), everything worked right out of the box with Karmic.  Video card, wireless card, sound card, the works.  And it was all readily accessible and easy to configure thanks to Ubuntu's user-friendly design.

Linux forever!  :guitar:

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2010-01-05
My main gripe with Karmic is the fact that you can't remove Pulseaudio easily without recompiling parts of the gnome desktop. Other than that, it works pretty excellently for me.

---

