---
title: "7.10 disappointment"
date: 2007-10-31
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by arkara on 2007-10-31
i got my laptop 4 months ago.
and i am new at the world of linux. anyway. i got my laptop and i installed ubuntu on it.what i saw is that the sound was not working even though my card was correctly identified.
so i seached the network for a solution i found 2 solutions.
the first one was very dificult for me as a new linux user.
and the second one was to boot with acpi=off and therefore sacrificing
my laptop functions for sound,
i did that as i use my laptop as a desktop relacement with very very little mobility needs.
and time passed until we came to october.
at that time some popular distributions were released such as opensuse and mandriva linux.
with opensue everything worked out of the box. but i really dont like this distribution.
mandriva linux. this is very weird.i had 2 problems. native language support and ram recognition. i only used 1gb out of my total 3 gbs.
so i w8 for ubuntu to come out judging that it would work out of the box.
well it did not!
sound was still not working and bluetooth adapter sometimes worked and sometimes did not worked(wasn't even recognized).
so for me the new ubuntu was just on face lifting and nothing more deep.my laptop does not even have a 100% functionality i would say  about 85-90% 
now i am on dual boot on ubuntu windows xp and i use ubuntu as my primary os.
i will stay on ubuntu becuse i like the idea behind it. and to be honest is has a vast community wich is very very helpful.
to end, i also found some stability issues wich i did not like at all and i will consider switching to debian when debian lenny comes out.

---

### Post by Bliepo32 on 2007-10-31
If you posted some extra information (for example, which solutions you found, which soundcard you have, which RAM you etc.), and reformat your post (this one is very difficult to read, make use of paragraphs), we might be able to help you.

---

