---
title: "10.04 to 12.04 has been hair raising"
date: 2012-08-18
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by arsenic23 on 2012-08-18
Preface:  Since Breezy it has never taken me more then 3 hours to set up a new linux install, even when using other distros.  I have been running 10.04 on almost all of my computers since it came out.  It has been perfect.  I recently put a new machine together that is just a little too knew to run 10.04 smoothly without building my own kernels.  So, it was time to give 12.04 a spin.  I was pretty optimistic.

I did not sleep last night.  It took me 29 hours to get something usable out of 12.04.  I am fairly happy with it now, but let me tell my story.

I have experience with Gnome3 (in Fedora) and so I was planning on using Unity and trying out Cinnamon.  Cinnamon wasn't very impressive and was way too lacking in proper window management, I like where it seems to be going though.  12.04's Unity proved to be useless once modification began.  Just installing ccsm seemed to make the entire thing unstable.  The cube is useless with flickering and a lot of other plugins seem to be in various states of broken.  I thought this was pretty funny seeing how most of these features were working perfectly (depending on your video card) for years.

That's not too much of a problem though.  I have been using compiz since day one, so I'm no stranger to forcing a workable environment out of it.  I put a pin in that problem and moved on to turning Unity into something I could use happily.  This took quite some time as I'm not very fond of docks or dock like things.  I will so that the menu is finally not awful like it was when Unity for first released.  It's actually kind of nice and after hours of plugging around I finally got something almost usable:  
Somehow, I think by exploiting a bug in Compiz, I got the dock to stay hidden unless the super key is held down.  I like bing able to launch applications with super+[number].  I removed the global menu, because it's awful if you take your hand off the keyboard and have a small window at the bottom of the screen.  

I change a good deal of the look of the UI and this is where I started to get annoyed.  So many basic settings are not only adjustable through gconf-editor.  I feel like I'm back in the 90's!  Plus there seem to be quite a lot of settings that are adjusted in multiple locations for no apparent reason.  Nevertheless, it all worked out and I was reading to start configuring compiz and my standard keyboard shortcuts.  However that task is, for all intents and purposes, impossible.  There are so many terrible UI bugs in Unity that have been up on the tracker for almost a year.  It's terribly disheartening but I tried to work around it.

If I wrote all the ppas I have installed and all the weird workarounds I have attempted it would stretch for pages on pages.  I spent a long time working on getting simple things to work.  I abandoned the cube, as it flickers, stutters, and refuses windows when you try and drag them between screens.  The wall works just fine though, and I don't care what it looks like as long as it give me fast and smooth workspace switching.  Still the wall won't let me drag windows into adjacent workspaces, and that's just sad.

Scale seems to be broken as well or intentionally crippled.  I can not scale every window on every workspace; can't do it.  I'm going to miss that (or fix it eventually).  A lot of other compiz features I'm used to just don't work well with Unity.  And again all these things are long standing bugs.  Well, while I was finishing up my compromise interface settings I ran a very long apt-get install command and my normal removal of ubuntu-one, social network stuff, and a bunch of those indicator applets.  During this process parts of Unity and compiz were crashing and restarting like mad.

Mplayer and totem are broken; they won't play 10bit files.
Mplayer2 is great, but you can't set it as the default program for movies (in Unity).
In fact you can't [easily] set anything odd as the default program for anything.  This is a bother as I used to write open file scripts for certain file types.  Maybe there is a good reason for this, but I don't know it.
Rythmbox seems to be integrated into a lot of stuff.  It bothered me, I uninstalled it.
A ton of little things were not working as intended.   They were unimportant; I ignored them.

I was having a lot of trouble getting key bindings to work right but they were coming along with a lot more compromises.  Compromises really get under my skin.  I have been using the same mouse movements and key commands in linux for 10 years.  When compiz came out I set it up to mimic whatever that weird window manager was I used to use.  Change isn't going to kill me, and the look of the interface isn't terribly important to me, but when I realized I couldn't use global shortcuts to control Clementine I quit.  I'm supper compulsive.  I need to hit the 'next track' button over and over and over again while I do other things.  I want to it be super+b.  I think that was the default in old old amarok.  I think that's where I got it.

Well that was three strikes.  
I'm not using Gnome3 – I hate it's workspace handling.  
I'm not using Cinnamon – It's not nearly mature enough.
I'm not using Unity – It is impossible to configure to my liking at this time ( but I can tell it is improving ).

Well I deleted a bunch of the config files for things, restarted the computer, booted into the terminal emulator and installed xfce from a bleeding edge ppa I had previously loaded.  Honestly xfce has come a long way in however long it has been since I last used it.  Most importantly key bindings work in: all of them.  Not only that, but compiz is a thousand times more stable without Unity around to whatever it was doing.  I set up nautilus as the file manager, and made sure that it was handling the desktop.  I set up a single good top panel; panel customization is a lost art in all the other environments nowadays.

It took me 4 hours to set up a pretty good environment in xfce.  I'm impressed, although my standards may have been lowered.  12.04, which had seemed to run like a dog, is rather comfortable now.  I still have some problems, but they fall into one of three categories:  *Don't try to help me with these; I'm fine.

I'm stuck using VLC or mplayer2 from the terminal to watch 10bit videos.  (not a real problem)
Parts of compiz still don't work even though a lot more of it is stable under xfce.  Most importantly I have no way to see all my open windows on one screen.
I don't like the way some things look.  I'm picky, suborn, and old fashioned.

Really, that's not that bad.  If you discount my experience trying to make Unity function the way I want 12.04 seems pretty solid and everything runs smoothly.  What has happened is that I have gone 2 years with absolutely zero problems.  10.04 has a perfect track record with me and now that I need a fresher OS on my main computer, I'm kind of heartbroken.

PS:  In case anyone is wondering I still have 4 computers with 10.04.  I have one computer with Fedora (something) and my server is humming along with Debian Stable.  I'll miss 10.04 when I no longer have it running on any of my computers.

PPS:  I should have slept before I wrote this.  I apologize for any odd grammar or typos I may have missed.

---

### Post by mlnease on 2012-08-19
I thoroughly sympathize, having just finished my seventh installation of 12.04.  Aside from 12.04's not properly recognizing my graphics card--resulting in a too-large screen resolution--I've finally managed to wrest a decent and (so far) stable Xfce desktop from the clutches of Unity.  It's a definite step down from 10.04 with GNOME 2.30.2 in terms of graphics and options, but at the moment it seems the best I can hope for, not being competent to write my own code.

I would at this point uninstall Unity altogether, but uninstalling-reinstalling DEs at least *may* have been the cause of several earlier failed installs and I don't care to go for number eight.  I hope that 12.04 will continue to evolve into a rival to 10.04 for desktop users and, in the meantime, will continue to use 10.04 until it's been rendered obsolete.

---

### Post by Arthur_D on 2012-08-19
I'm using Xubuntu, and yes, XFCE is great for people like me who doesn't want change just because someone thought it was a good idea to disrupt my computing habits.

That being said, I often wonder what people are missing so much from Gnome 2 that XFCE can't do. Just installing a few programs replacing e.g. the default text editor, the default media player and possibly the default file browser and I'm good.

---

### Post by arsenic23 on 2012-08-19
> **Arthur_D said:**
> That being said, I often wonder what people are missing so much from Gnome 2 that XFCE can't do.

Perhaps they used xfce years ago when it wasn't as polished as it is now.
Perhaps they don't realize they can get rid of thunar and xfdesktop.  xfdesktop is particularly annoying.

I mean, after really looking at it, XFCE's panels are quite a bit more configurable then Gnome2, and leagues beyond most of the other modern DEs.  After using it for a while, I am much more pleased with it then I thought I would be.

After setting most of gnome's apps as the default my only real grip is that the line numbers run seamlessly into the lines of gedit now.  That is a terrible design idea.  It doesn't seem to be something you can fix with settings or themes either.  I mean, I need line numbers.

---

### Post by mlnease on 2012-08-20
> **Arthur_D said:**
> I'm using Xubuntu, and yes, XFCE is great for people like me who doesn't want change just because someone thought it was a good idea to disrupt my computing habits.

That being said, I often wonder what people are missing so much from Gnome 2 that XFCE can't do. Just installing a few programs replacing e.g. the default text editor, the default media player and possibly the default file browser and I'm good.
In my case, just really trivial details--a slightly better selection of panel applets and buttons, graphics options, and so on and generally more seamless integration (or so it feels to me).  Still not complaining though, very glad to have found Xfce and to have it up and running.

For my part, it wasn't a matter of not wanting to change for whatever reason (though I find those reasons very suspect), it was more a matter of not wanting to be told what I want and having my alternatives severely curtailed.

---

### Post by mlnease on 2012-08-20
> **arsenic23 said:**
> Perhaps they used xfce years ago when it wasn't as polished as it is now.
Perhaps they don't realize they can get rid of thunar and xfdesktop.  xfdesktop is particularly annoying.
Yeah, I switched to Nautilus too.  Something I'd read had advised me that some application 'called' Thunar so I left it in.  I'm not nearly so sophisticated a user as you are and must worry about things like breaking dependencies I don't understand.
I don't think I even noticed xfdesktop.  Does it somehow interfere with your Xfce?
> I mean, after really looking at it, XFCE's panels are quite a bit more configurable then Gnome2, and leagues beyond most of the other modern DEs.  After using it for a while, I am much more pleased with it then I thought I would be.Agreed!  *Such *a breath of fresh air after trying the alternatives.

---

### Post by arsenic23 on 2012-08-20
> **mlnease said:**
> I don't think I even noticed xfdesktop.

If you have icons on your desktop, xfdesktop groups them into a grid.  You can't move them to the far edges, you can't smush them up into a corner, you can't overlap them a little bit.  Nautilus, with keep aligned off, is much more organic.

I read a lot of comics, and download whatever to my desktop so that I can batch rename and sort them at the end of the week.  If I had stuck with xfdesktop it would have been a mess with too many icons to fit the real estate.

I didn't even bother trying to configure it.  I just turned it off.

---

