---
title: "10.04 Beta1 Installation Testimonial - quite smooth!"
date: 2010-04-02
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by opc on 2010-04-02
Hello,

Thought I would take the time to share my experience with Ubuntu 10.04 Beta1.  I've been using K/X/Ubuntu for about 5 years, but I've always waited for the official releases before installing.  This is the first time I try a Beta release.

My experience overall with this release has been very good.  I did a full install using the alternate install disk (ubuntu-10.04-beta1-alternate-i386.iso) on a Dell Latitude D620 (2 GB RAM), without an Ethernet network connection.  I only hit a few snags.  The first was during the first boot process where the system seemed to be hung prior to getting the login prompt.  This was overcome by typing CTRL-ALT-PrintScreen-K.  The second snag is hardly worth reporting.  When the screen went black, i.e. when the screensaver kicked in, I could not see the login screen when trying to regain access to the laptop.  I could, however, enter my password blindly to get back in.  These two snags went away after doing a full update/upgrade/dist-upgrade with apt-get.  The last snag was with the NVidia driver.  I had seen that this was a known issue prior to installation, so I was expecting it.

Getting the screen to function properly required plenty of monkeying around.  Here are the last steps that lead to a successful screen configuration:

$sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia*
$sudo apt-get install --reinstall xserver-xorg-video-nouveau

System->Hardware Drivers, searching for drivers, none found



$sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
$sudo jockey-text -l
    output: "kmod:nvidia_current - nvidia_current (proprietary, enabled, not in use)"
$sudo apt-get install --reinstall jockey-common
$sudo jockey-text -l
$sudo jockey-text --enable=nvidia-current
$sudo jockey-text --enable=nvidia
$sudo jockey-text --enable=NVIDIA

A few curse words and restart X (Ctl-Alt-PrntScrn, K)

System->Monitors->"Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?", said yes.


And voila!  I could now see the screen parameters with the NVidia tool and I changed them accordingly.

Now everything seems to work quite well, even sound.  That said, there is one outstanding issue.  I installed a number of packages, including jackd and qjackctl.  I can't get qjackctl to work - it gets killed by the timeout watchdog after a few seconds.  I haven't figured this one out yet.  Jack works fine when started manually, so it is not a pressing issue.

I discovered that Nautilus now does split screen!  It's called "extra pane" and appears magically when pressing F3.  This is beautiful!  Thank you Nautilus developers!

On a final and purely subjective note, this is the least aesthetic release of Ubuntu.  I immediately changed the theme and background to something more cheery.  Currently, in my part of the world, it is Spring.  The flowers our out, trees are in bloom, the sun is shining, people are outside.  This has impacted my mood, so I changed the looks of the desktop accordingly.

For a Beta release, I was expecting a much more troublesome process.  I've had more trouble installing GA releases in the past.  Obviously, a lot of hard work has gone into getting this release ready.  So I have to say a special "thank you" to all of those involved in the process of making this a reality, whom ever you are, where ever you are.

Cheers,
-opc

---

### Post by @rizz on 2010-04-03
Hey May be i will give it a try tooo!!!

---

