---
title: "Intrepid Ibex &gt;&gt; Dell Inspiron 9400 [Long]"
date: 2009-01-07
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by tiyowan on 2009-01-07
Hi all,

This is my first post on the Ubuntu forums, and I wanted to relate my experience with installing and using Ubuntu, and share my thoughts on Linux in general. Please note that I do have a tendency to ramble, so consider yourselves forewarned. :) My first computer was a Commodore 64, and from the moment I powered it up, I knew that computers were going to be my calling. Anyway, to make a long story short, fast-forward many computers, many Windows versions, and many years later, to November 2008. Seven months out of a university with mostly Microsoft-centric professors, and equipped with a degree in CS, I had just completed a freelance project to set up all the infrastructure for a small-sized net cafe (35 PCs).

Now, it might just be me, but after setting up (installation, patching, updating, etc.) that many Windows machines in under a week, I was beginning to get the feeling that the folks in Redmond were dedicated to making the lives of system administrators a living hell. Don't get me wrong, Windows XP Pro SP3 is a great OS, but I just found the whole process of installing, patching, and updating to be well, monotonous. Even though there are tools and workarounds such as AutoPatcher and slipstreaming. that are designed to help make the process easier, it is still a pain to do. So there I was working in this net cafe, and one of their customers walks in with a problem. Just because of the fact that I was there, the employees sent him to me to see if I could figure it out. As it turned out, the guy wanted to install Ubuntu 6.10 LTS (Edgy Eft) on an old Pentium III he had lying around. Now, as I mentioned before, I had Microsoft-centric professors at university, and because of this my only exposure to Linux was through an old (and in hindsight, wise) professor who used to give lectures on operating systems. Unfortunately, he was rather fond of theory, and thus, while I was familiar with Linux design principles, I had little practical knowledge about the OS itself.

Coming back to the guy with the Edgy Eft disc, I googled Ubuntu 6.10 and found out that it was about two years old. So I told him that I'll download the latest release of the distro for him and do my best to help him set it up. At this point, it is important to mention a couple of more facts about what mindset I had towards Windows operating systems at the time. I lug around a Dell Inspiron 9400 (2.0 GHz Centrino Duo, 1 GB RAM, ATI X1400) and do all of my freelance work on it. Vista has been out for quite a while now, and having used it on other systems I had already decided that I would be skipping the upgrade to Vista. I really didn't want to sacrifice the stability of WinXP Pro SP3 for the "flair" of Vista. To be honest, I have a rather dim view of Vista; in my opinion, I haven't seen an OS this bad from Microsoft since Windows Me. Of course, I must add here that there are many users who like Vista, and if it works for you, then that's great. I'm just voicing my personal opinion here, so please keep this in mind before you whip out your trusty old flamers. :) Moreover, I was even more disappointed with Microsoft when I looked at some of the Windows 7 screenshots. Apparently, and again this is just my personal opinion, I think Win7 is going to be more of an upgrade to Vista rather than a significantly different OS like Windows 95 was. So, coming back to the Edgy Eft guy, he wasn't very knowledgeable about Linux either, and when he tried installing Ubuntu 8.10 from the disc I burned for him, he couldn't start X. As I recall, it turned out he had an ancient graphics card which required some legacy driver packages. (of course, I didn't know that at the time) Anyway, we managed to get Intrepid Ibex running on his system after adding some more RAM and putting in a more recent graphics card. While troubleshooting his problem, I thought it would be a good idea to install Ubuntu 8.10 on my Dell Inspiron 9400 as well, in order to gain a better understanding of the installation process.

And this was the moment when I became a fan of Ubuntu and Linux in general. As it is often said, this was when the penny dropped for me. :)

I popped in the Intrepid Ibex disc, booted from it, saw the "Try Ubuntu" option, clicked it and Ubuntu 8.10 loaded up. Now, I have to note some observations here:
 
First observation: Oh. My. God. Did the OS actually load from the disc? That is just *cool*. Admittedly, many other distros come on Live discs, but for someone who had just spent a week setting up Windows machines and had almost no practical knowledge of Linux distributions, this was just, well, *cool*. 

Second observation: The boot process was *fast*. This indicated to me right away that Ubuntu wasn't loading nearly as much junk on my machine as Windows XP was. More on this later.

Third observation: Purely an aesthetic point, but after spending a week of looking at blue Windows XP screens, Ubuntu's brown background came as a refreshingly pleasant surprise, at least to my eyes. I know a lot of people complain about the brown colour, but I must admit that I rather like the fact that Ubuntu doesn't try to imitate the colour schemes of some other operating systems. Additionally, if I understand the definition of "Ubuntu" correctly, I think the brown theme goes quite well with the humanist philosophy connoted by the name.

So I spent the better part of the day tinkering around with Intrepid Ibex, and the more time I spent with it, the more convinced I became that this was definitely a viable alternative to Windows. I had read a book named "Free For All: How Linux and the Free Software Movement Undercut the High-tech Titans" by Peter Wayner while I was at university, and I must admit that I had developed a favourable impression of open-source software. Therefore, running Ubuntu 8.10 on my machine and playing around with it seemed even more amazing to me when I considered the fact that a community of dedicated contributors had volunteered their time and money to make all this possible. 

I had definitely decided: Goodbye, Windows. Hello, Ubuntu. :)

Being a techie, and having experience with installing and upgrading different Windows OSes over the years (Win 3.1 -> Windows 95 -> Windows 98 -> Windows Me [Ouch!] -> Windows 98 -> Windows 2000 -> Windows XP Pro, to name a few), I knew that installing Ubuntu 8.10 and setting up a usable system was definitely going to take more than one day, and that I had to approach the transition with a mind open to learning new things and a heart full of patience. By nature, I'm a methodical person, so I spent an entire day researching whether my hardware was going to be compatible with Ubuntu 8.10. I must mention here the great work that the folks of the LaptopTestingTeam are doing. I quickly found a wiki for my machine, and the information on it proved to be tremendously useful in anticipating potential problems.

Fourth observation: I think many of the new Ubuntu users make the mistake of not checking out the hardware compatibility lists before installing the operating system, and thus end up having a frustrating time with Ubuntu because of it. 

After having spent a day searching the web for information, I was satisfied that there weren't going to be any significant problems with the installation. To be honest, X-related problems scared the living daylights out of me one month ago. And they still do. :) The next step was doing some partition surgery. Making space and setting aside partitions. Easy enough to do with some Windows-based tools. It was time to do the actual install. This was when I encountered my first problem. Apparently, and I didn't know this, the Dell machine I have has a Philips combo burner, which apparently is useless for burning. It turned out that I was getting CD verification fail errors when I tried to do the install. Fair enough. After conducting some research, I found out about the Philips problem. So I burned the disc again from another PC, and it worked. 

I encountered my first real Ubuntu bug when I was doing the actual install, and it was really nerve-wrecking for me because the laptop I was installing Ubuntu on was my production machine. Apparently, the graphical bar that one gets during the partitioning process of the installer is broken, and I must admit it frightened me so much that I selected the "Manually Choose" option, and even before committing to that I googled for more information to make sure that the installer wasn't going to erase all of my partitions. Fortunately, the manual option worked just fine. However, I think that graphical bar needs to be fixed in the next release, because it's just evil in the way that it plays tricks with the user's mind. Another moment of nerves for me was when the screen went completely black, but luckily, I had paid enough attention in my operating systems classes to know that linux in general has a way of doing this. Actually, I remembered a quote from my OS professor, "If you see a black screen in Linux, don't touch your system. The black screen doesn't mean it's frozen. Just leave it alone and give it some time." After spending some minutes waiting anxiously, eventually the black screen went away. Phew. :) The Ubuntu 8.10 install was a breeze after that point.

The first time Ubuntu booted from my hard drive, I was once again amazed by how *fast* it was. Glad that I had succeeded in installing Ubuntu, I deviated from my plan of actually transferring my data from the Windows XP partitions and set to work on customizing the GUI and installing programs. Like the true newbie, and still thinking in Winmode, I started searching for drivers to install. :D Imagine what a pleasant surprise it was for me to discover that the only drivers I needed to install were the restricted ones for my ATI card. Definitely a plus in my book. And from then on, everything has been marvellous! I could go on and on. :)

Certainly, I've had to learn a lot of new things, but I'm glad to write that the time I have initially invested in Ubuntu has reimbursed itself ten times over. I don't have to waste time worrying about malware, spyware, and viruses. Especially those USB flash drive autorun viruses. I don't have to waste time with installing patches and upgrading service packs. I don't have to waste time making certain that my system is secure. I don't have to waste time having to browse to different websites, downloading different programs, and installing them myself one by one. Ubuntu has excellent technical support, and I would particularly like to mention the #Ubuntu channel on IRC. The folks there are great, and I would like to thank all of them for the help they provide to new users like myself, and the patience with which they assist in troubleshooting a bewildering array of problems. If it weren't for #Ubuntu, I definitely would have had a harder time figuring out many things on my own. You do us all a great service by volunteering your time. Thank you.

In closing, I'd just like to mention that the last time I used Windows was almost two and a half months ago, and this I think is in itself is a fitting testament to the great work that Canonical and the Ubuntu community are doing. I'm also looking forward to becoming a member of the community, and helping out other users with the same amount of dedication, enthusiasm, and patience which other users have shown when they have helped me.

Thank you.

---

