---
title: "10.04rc best yet in my experience"
date: 2010-04-25
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2010-04-25
[SIZE=3][COLOR=Blue]Here is a thanks to all of the developers of Ubuntu. Good work people.[/COLOR][/SIZE]

I began using Ubuntu with 8.04 and graduated through 8.10, 9.04 and 9.10. I just installed 10.04rc on my laptop and desktop systems. I will have to say that in my experience with Ubuntu that 10.04 has been the smoothest to install. I have a separate /home folder/partition which made the start-up into Thunderbird and Firefox a breeze. 

8.10 gave me more trouble and difficulty with flash and Java and a few other issues than any version.

10.04 is also faster on boot-up. I never looked into why 9.10 was so slow booting on my desktop. All were a clean instal. I will likely stick with 10.04 until the next LTS version comes out.

---

### Post by Rifester on 2010-04-25
I will also thank all of the developers and volunteers for all of your hard work.    I was really on the fence about even staying with Ubuntu.   This LTS has made that decision easy.  I will be happy to have Lucid on both of my machines for the next three years.  Thank you!

---

### Post by Pewpewarrows on 2010-04-25
Agreed.

I've used Ubuntu for a little over 3 years now on a laptop that's about a decade old.  I have a desktop that I use for my main computing, but my laptop is always by my side at work, on trips, and when I go home for vacation.  As such it's always been my testing bed.  I'm constantly playing around with distros on it and experiencing linux from an old hardware perspective.  Because of its age I've learned more than I ever would have over these past 3 years or so from discovering how to get thinks working and just right.  For the average user though, I know they would have immediately been turned off by having to get their hands dirty in any way, shape, or form.

And then this weekend I did a fresh install of the 10.04 RC.  This is without a doubt the best user experience I have ever had using Linux.  Ever.  It took about 30 minutes to install.  It cold boots in under 30 seconds on my ancient hardware with a default install.  EVERY piece of hardware down to the smallest component was detected and worked out-of-the-box.  I always have had to struggle for days getting my graphics drivers, wireless card, and media card readers to detect and be functional.  Those days are now over, and I couldn't be happier.

My hat is off to every single developer that put their time and effort into making Ubuntu into what it is today.  To see how much it has matured and grown in just a few short years astounds me.  I can't wait to see where you take it from here on out.  

Literally the only thing keeping me from now making it my only OS exclusively is game support.  The day Steam releases a native Linux client is the day I can kiss Windows goodbye forever.  Wine is great, and most-all games work fine after a few weeks of configuration and debugging, but the gamer experience is really the last thing that I see needs polishing.  Everything else this release has been icing on the cake.

Bravo.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-04-25
> **Pewpewarrows said:**
> 

Literally the only thing keeping me from now making it my only OS exclusively is game support.  The day Steam releases a native Linux client is the day I can kiss Windows goodbye forever.

You're probably two months away from kissing Windows goodbye forever :-)

(although Steam is just the distribution service, it doesn't mean that all games on Steam will be available for Linux).

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-04-26
> **Pewpewarrows said:**
> It took about 30 minutes to install.

It took me about 4 minutes to install 10.04 from a pendrive. Wow. Lucid is shaping up to be a great release.

---

### Post by lancest on 2010-04-26
Very happy with Lucid. Ambiance + Hubble = gorgeous  
bugs are minor.   
Can't wait to see how rock solid Lucid gets at .1 
(10.04.1).

---

### Post by ukripper on 2010-04-26
> **3rdalbum said:**
> You're probably two months away from kissing Windows goodbye forever :-)

(although Steam is just the distribution service, it doesn't mean that all games on Steam will be available for Linux).

Nice one,  I'm just intrigued by the steam project, hope it works out for people who play games on computer.

---

### Post by Curtiss on 2010-04-26
I've been using Ubuntu on and off for three four years. I recently tried Lucid beta 1 on one of my really old PC and that got me really excited. I don't care to dual boot with windows so I built a new PC just for Lucid and now using the 10.04 RC 64 bit and it runs smooth as silk got to be the best Ubuntu yet. My windows 7 PC now sits collecting dust.

My hat is off to you Ubuntu !!!

---

### Post by rayclev on 2010-04-26
I did an upgrade installation of rc from 9.10 and was really happy with the whole thing. Every thing worked from the start.
Cheere. Ray.

---

### Post by kenweill on 2010-04-26
I did a fresh install of Ubutu 10.04 RC from Ubuntu 8.04 (fully updated) and it feels like 8.04 is much faster in my machine.

   	
[How fast is Ubuntu 10.04 in your machine? ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1463413")

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2010-06-09
Recant my recant. 10.04 running fine with only one very minor glitch that can be ignored.

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2010-10-19
Several months into 10.04 and xsane started acting up and I completely lost usage of xsane with 10.10. I am back to 9.10 and all is right in my Ubuntu world again.

---

### Post by johntaylor1887 on 2010-10-20
I installed 10.04 in april and it is still going strong.

---

### Post by darrenn on 2010-10-20
Good to hear people are having positive experiences with ubuntu.

---

### Post by cmileto on 2010-10-20
I know Ill be using both a server and a desktop install of ubuntu 10.04 until the next LTS is released. Thanks!

---

