---
title: "11.04 is very nice! Some suggestions"
date: 2011-06-06
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Hypnoz on 2011-06-06
I knew I would like the unity interface because OSX and Win7 are both enjoyable to use for me. I was thinking if ubuntu could mimic the bar in Win7 that would be good progress over the old gnome panels, and they are off to a good start.

Unity Bar Requests
* Mouse over any side of screen to make it appear
* Option to make it never disappear on full screen app (I really don't like that I can't make it "always up") and full screen apps just use the bar as the screen edge.
* Right click on icon to get options to minimize all, close all, new window
* Mouse over app icon to view running apps in that group

Overall a "Unity Settings" menu with lots of config stuff to customize the look and feel, with the options I have above plus any others such as size and screen location (left, bottom, right), would be nice.

Basically these are generic features that people have grown use to on the Win7 and OSX bars, and some of those features would go a long way towards usability in the Unity bar.

Some other notes about the OS in general...
- I'm not sure I like the "system tray" icons losing their colors at the top right corner. Not sure the need for this change.
- I love that Ubuntu kept the minimize button on windows unlike Fedora 15
- I am no longer able to drag windows to other desktops using the screen edges (using Unity 2D, maybe this is working on 3D)
- Even if Unity 3D doesn't think my system can support it, give me a way to try anyways.
- If Unity 3D doesn't install, make the default Unity 2D (or at least notify the user that package is avail and ask if they want to install it).


Overall this is looking like a very enjoyable transition away from Gnome 2.x and I feel like I understand the vision of the GUI designers and I'm on board with the more OSX/Win7 feel. I'm just looking forward to more customization options of the Unity Bar.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-06-06
Glad you like it, but giving suggestions here will fall on deaf ears. The devs normally don't reply here. You need to go to [http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/](http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/) or somewhere else where the devs hang out.

---

### Post by el_koraco on 2011-06-06
> **Hypnoz said:**
> Unity Bar Requests
* Mouse over any side of screen to make it appear
* Option to make it never disappear on full screen app (I really don't like that I can't make it "always up") and full screen apps just use the bar as the screen edge.


Install ccsm and go to the Unity plugin, there you can tweak the launcher revealing mode.

---

### Post by Hypnoz on 2011-06-06
> **el_koraco said:**
> Install ccsm and go to the Unity plugin, there you can tweak the launcher revealing mode.

I have compiz config settings manager, but I've noticed that the Ubuntu one is unchecked, and even some of my other changes don't apply (such as dragging windows to the edge of the screen to move workspaces).

I believe this is because I'm using Unity 2D, and I've heard it uses metacity instead of compiz. I'm not sure if there is a metacity settings manager app that does the same things as compiz but I haven't found one.

---

### Post by el_koraco on 2011-06-06
aaah, you're right. I think there is a way to tweak Unity 2D, but I'm not sure what the procedure is.

---

