---
title: "12.04-fantastic-King of Free"
date: 2012-05-27
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by lancest on 2012-05-27
Ubuntu 12.04
5 machines.
Very pleased.

2 Desktops - 2006-2008 vintage
2 Netbooks- 2008-2010
Laptop- 2011- I7

IMHO Precise Pangolin 12.04 is the best ever:
1. Shutdown 3 seconds
2. Application startup zippy
3. Lens & Hud - put other OS's to shame.
4. Ease of use - simple usb removal, easy application locate/shutdown.
5. Rock solid performance with new kernel/improved EXT 4 filesystem
6. Runs projectors, HD TV nicely
7. LibreOffice keeps improving
8. Excellent cloud OS -(with Google Docs,UOne, and my free 50GB at Box.com)
9. 12.04 is great partners with my Android 4- Transformer work or play.

:) Sweet computing!
Feel like the King of Free.

---

### Post by mmesantos1 on 2012-05-28
+1 awesome work for Ubuntu 12.04. :)

---

### Post by gefalu2008 on 2012-05-30
Sweet computing indeed! I have a wonderful sense of freedom when using Ubuntu 12.04. I feel the systems fulfills my hopes beautifully. And I know I can install the system in any machine I wish without worrying about licences. Lancest listed things that are important for me too - especially LibreOffice and lightning-fast webbrowsing.

---

### Post by lancest on 2012-05-30
> **gefalu2008 said:**
>  I have a wonderful sense of freedom when using Ubuntu 12.04. 

Key!

---

### Post by misterblobby on 2012-06-01
I have been using ubuntu only since 11.04, bit I agree, the user interface on 12.04 is great. I love the way lenses can be set up to search different sources, and this is something that shows a heap of potential.

Looking forward to the next update.

---

