---
title: "12.04...not bad"
date: 2012-04-30
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by jaws222 on 2012-04-30
Well, ever since 11.04 I've really hated Unity, but I have to admit Ubuntu has improved it quite a bit.  I like the fact that you can now resize the icons on the panel to fit more. Overall, I think the new version is pretty good.  I still prefer the KDE, XFCE and even the Gnome Shell over Unity, but it is now very usable to me.  I have the new version on one of my laptops and will keep the Unity desktop this time.  Good work Ubuntu!

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2012-04-30
You may check out 'MyUnity' in Ubuntu Software Center. It allows you to tweak Unity.

---

### Post by jaws222 on 2012-04-30
> **Artificial Intelligence said:**
> You may check out 'MyUnity' in Ubuntu Software Center. It allows you to tweak Unity.

Really?  I'll check it out.  Thanks!

---

### Post by oshirowanen on 2012-04-30
> **jaws222 said:**
> Well, ever since 11.04 I've really hated Unity, but I have to admit Ubuntu has improved it quite a bit.  I like the fact that you can now resize the icons on the panel to fit more. Overall, I think the new version is pretty good.  I still prefer the KDE, XFCE and even the Gnome Shell over Unity, but it is now very usable to me.  I have the new version on one of my laptops and will keep the Unity desktop this time.  Good work Ubuntu!

Agreed, except the KDE part. :D

---

### Post by jaws222 on 2012-05-03
I've successfully upgraded all three of my home computers to 12.04 via  upgrade with only one minor issue on my only 32-bit machine.  After some  Google searching I corrected the error by deleting a package form the   /var/lib/dpkg/*status folder* and the 32-bit machine is now up and  running smoothly. This 32-bit machine has survived upgrades all the way  up from 10.10 with only this issue.  I have a KDE flavor, an XFCE and a  LXDE to go along with my Unity laptop.

---

