---
title: "9.10 is awesome"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by servicetech on 2009-10-29
They fixed my sleep/screensaver issue, boots faster and the software manager is great. Great job to the developers !!!

---

### Post by Major Squirrel on 2009-10-29
Totally agree! It looks crisper, I like the new features, maybe I'm crazy but it's faster...I love it!!

---

### Post by zeehat on 2009-10-29
I'm excited to try it out. I have never installed Ubuntu on a laptop, recently getting my first for University...So hopefully all will go smoothly:D

---

### Post by sickly on 2009-10-29
definitely lovin it. standard looks are better, loading screen is cool too. and has some nice new features.

---

### Post by soelk on 2009-10-29
Karmic is incredibly fast. It is noticably faster and snappier than a relatively new and clean Windows XP installation on my computer, but the functionality is more comparable to Windows 7 of course. :)

It seems that the OS-bloating trend has come to a definite end with Windows 7, Mac OS X Snow Leopard and Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic Koala released in the same year, all with less bloat than their predecessors.

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-10-29
> **soelk said:**
> Karmic is incredibly fast. It is noticably faster and snappier than a relatively new and clean Windows XP installation on my computer, but the functionality is more comparable to Windows 7 of course. :)

It seems that the OS-bloating trend has come to a definite end with Windows 7, Mac OS X Snow Leopard and Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic Koala released in the same year, all with less bloat than their predecessors.

Dude, Karmic is so freakin' fast I don't know what to do with myself.  I hate that the default on my touchpad was edge scrolling instead of two-finger (which was the default in Jaunty), but a simple setting fixed that.  

Beyond that, I agree.  Way less bloat in Karmic than Jaunty.  This thing is uber fast.  And better yet, no freezing when deleting/moving large files on the ext4 file system, like there was in Jaunty. 

I'm impressed....  :)

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-10-29
Ubuntu Karmic Koala gets an A+ from me. I am very pleased with the quality of this OS.

---

### Post by Eagles18 on 2009-10-29
I'm still waiting for my 9.04 to finish updating,which at this rate won't be any time soon :(

---

### Post by lancest on 2009-10-29
I've noticed nice speed improvements on USB eject, more snappy performance all around on desktop machines and netbooks. I believe the is due to the new kernel- which I read was optimized for the desktop. Also EXT4 performance is top notch.  
Also have seen Rhythmbox improve on moving between songs. I'm addicted to Jamendo now.
 Karmic -better performance and looks, really a winner. (Just fix Empathy and that brightness adjustment bug on the MSI Wind U* netbooks and I will be even more thrilled)

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-10-29
> **lancest said:**
> I've noticed nice speed improvements on USB eject, more snappy performance all around on desktop machines and netbooks. I believe the is due to the new kernel- which I read was optimized for the desktop. Also EXT4 performance is top notch.  
Also have seen Rhythmbox improve on moving between songs. I'm addicted to Jamendo now.
 Karmic -better performance and looks, really a winner. (Just fix Empathy and that brightness adjustment bug on the MSI Wind U* netbooks and I will be even more thrilled)

I like the added "safely remove drive" option .

---

### Post by rfruth on 2009-10-29
Have used many (6 or so) major releases before, 9.10 is a winner !

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2009-10-29
I wasn't going to upgrade until Lynx but you make it sound so tempting.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-10-29
> **steveneddy said:**
> I wasn't going to upgrade until Lynx but you make it sound so tempting.

I got on the Ubuntu train in May with Jaunty and it worked fine. I upgraded to the RC a few days ago to beat the rush and I think it was well worth it. The devs did a great job with this release.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-10-29
> **steveneddy said:**
> I wasn't going to upgrade until Lynx but you make it sound so tempting.

Are you going to spend the rest of your life afraid?  ;)  \\:D/

If you back up your stuff, go nuts. The wheels of tech keep moving.

---

### Post by JEStone on 2009-10-30
:p Much Faster!!! Love it! The developers have done a fantastic job.

---

### Post by dyous87 on 2009-10-30
I love it a lot so far. It seems snappier and boots faster plus it just is all around more polished and professional. Even the new default theme looks great. My only issue so far is that empathy was chosen to replace pidgin. I'm not sure I really understand this decision. Pidgin was more feature complete. I don't feel like empathy was ready to make it into the release yet. For example empathy doesn't have th pluggin capabilities of pidgin and file transfer doesn't really work yet.

Apart from this, which is easily fixed with an apt-get install, 9.10 is great!

---

### Post by loell on 2009-10-30
I &#9829; UbuntuOne in karmic. :)

not that I don't &#9829; dropbox, I use them both.  :D

---

### Post by SlayingPigs on 2009-10-30
I don't know what the deal is, but I had some problems getting the thing running initially. I did a straight upgrade from Jaunty through update manager, and on the first boot I got a white screen and nothing else. Did a hard restart and it finally loaded, but the background came up solid black and all of the windows I opened were also black. Restarted a hundred more times and it's finally up and running, but it looks virtually the same as Jaunty, but with a few subtle differences. And everyone keeps talking about how fast it is. My computer is dragging ***... What gives?

---

### Post by dyous87 on 2009-10-30
> **SlayingPigs said:**
> I don't know what the deal is, but I had some problems getting the thing running initially. I did a straight upgrade from Jaunty through update manager, and on the first boot I got a white screen and nothing else. Did a hard restart and it finally loaded, but the background came up solid black and all of the windows I opened were also black. Restarted a hundred more times and it's finally up and running, but it looks virtually the same as Jaunty, but with a few subtle differences. And everyone keeps talking about how fast it is. My computer is dragging ***... What gives?

What are your computers specs if you don't mind me asking?

David

---

### Post by loell on 2009-10-30
fresh install = less problems. ;)

---

### Post by Unanimated on 2009-10-30
After I upgraded from 9.04, I actually thought that the boot and login was a bit slower than in 9.04. Hopefully those things will fix themselves after I boot up again, but so far, I really like Karmic. The driver for my wifi card has been improved, before I would get about 50% signal strength and now I get about 90% consistently, without moving the antenna or computer itself at all. So far, I really like Karmic, and it can only get better.

---

### Post by PostChache on 2009-10-30
Hearing all of y'alls comments is making me excited for it! Mine is downloading really slow but I'm sure it'll be worth it!

---

### Post by Unanimated on 2009-10-30
> **PostChache said:**
> Hearing all of y'alls comments is making me excited for it! Mine is downloading really slow but I'm sure it'll be worth it!

It really is. I waited about 3-4 hours for it to finish downloading and installing all the packages, and I found that it was **well** worth the wait.

---

### Post by SlayingPigs on 2009-10-30
> **dyous87 said:**
> What are your computers specs if you don't mind me asking?

David

You'll need to put the question in layman's terms, as simple as it probably is to begin with... What "specs" would you like?

---

### Post by dyous87 on 2009-10-30
> **SlayingPigs said:**
> You'll need to put the question in layman's terms, as simple as it probably is to begin with... What "specs" would you like?

Sorry about that :)

How much RAM do you have (ie: 512 mb, 1 gig, 2 gigs etc) ? What kind of processor (ie: intel core 2 duo, intel pentium, amd athlon etc.) and what is your processor clock speed (1.8Ghz, 2.4Ghz etc)

David

---

### Post by plurworldinc on 2009-10-30
Totally loving the new look and the speed is amazing. Everything is so professional, even down to the new wallpapers. Kudos everyone, KUDOS!!!!:D

---

### Post by SlayingPigs on 2009-10-30
> **dyous87 said:**
> Sorry about that :)

How much RAM do you have (ie: 512 mb, 1 gig, 2 gigs etc) ? What kind of processor (ie: intel core 2 duo, intel pentium, amd athlon etc.) and what is your processor clock speed (1.8Ghz, 2.4Ghz etc)

David

......I know there is a way to check all of those things in the terminal, or probably in some dropdown menu, but I can't remember what it is. The processor is a Pentium 4, RAM is something like 512, and even the term "clock speed" is a mystery to me...

---

### Post by dyous87 on 2009-10-30
> **SlayingPigs said:**
> ......I know there is a way to check all of those things in the terminal, or probably in some dropdown menu, but I can't remember what it is. The processor is a Pentium 4, RAM is something like 512, and even the term "clock speed" is a mystery to me...

That's no problem. Your clock speed is probably somewhere between 1.6Ghz and 2.4Ghz. Your RAM however is a little underpowered. You can upgrade that to at least a gig for very cheap these days and your computer would be significantly faster.

---

### Post by SlayingPigs on 2009-10-30
> **dyous87 said:**
> That's no problem. Your clock speed is probably somewhere between 1.6Ghz and 2.4Ghz. Your RAM however is a little underpowered. You can upgrade that to at least a gig for very cheap these days and your computer would be significantly faster.

Well the thing is, when I was using Jaunty the machine was running noticeably faster. It's dragging now.

---

### Post by dyous87 on 2009-10-30
> **SlayingPigs said:**
> Well the thing is, when I was using Jaunty the machine was running noticeably faster. It's dragging now.

Did you by any chance have Jaunty running without Compiz (desktop special effects) and now in Karmic you have them running?

David

---

### Post by ericmc783 on 2009-10-30
wonderful experience so far!

formatted as ext4. runs fast, and boot times are fast as well.

---

### Post by SlayingPigs on 2009-10-30
> **dyous87 said:**
> Did you by any chance have Jaunty running without Compiz (desktop special effects) and now in Karmic you have them running?

David

Nah, it's actually the other way around. Even with Compiz running in Jaunty it was faster than Karmic. I'm probably just going to do a clean install. It's going to take forever, and I'm not psyched about it...

---

### Post by dyous87 on 2009-10-30
> **SlayingPigs said:**
> Nah, it's actually the other way around. Even with Compiz running in Jaunty it was faster than Karmic. I'm probably just going to do a clean install. It's going to take forever, and I'm not psyched about it...

In my experience clean installs always go best. Even in Windows. It shouldn't take that long. I downloaded the whole thing in about 10 mins and then then install was done in less then an hour. Goof luck! I hope all works out better after the install.

---

### Post by GodLikeCreature on 2009-10-30
I am very happy with Karmic, I think specially the splash screen and GDM theme is looking very sharp and professional!...

I think the integration with Empathy and Evolution is also very elegant, love the software store, I think this is a great feature, specially for new users who know nothing about Linux.  It should make their life a lot easier!

For the first time ever, I didn't have to use my ethernet connection to complete an installation, having to install backports before my wireless card could be detected.  This time around with Karmic, it was all smooth, picked up all hardware in one go, and it all works perfect!...  

In addition, I think the install wizard is very clear, elegant and very good looking!

I obviously agree with those comments about Karmic being very very fast.  Nautilus feels snappier (very) and not even Firefox feels slow!

I also love the wallpapers included, very high quality!

---

### Post by mjhouska on 2009-10-30
> **dyous87 said:**
> In my experience clean installs always go best. Even in Windows. It shouldn't take that long. I downloaded the whole thing in about 10 mins and then then install was done in less then an hour. Goof luck! I hope all works out better after the install.

Joo has a wiiide pipe!

---

### Post by mjhouska on 2009-10-30
It's working great so far on my Thinkpad T60P. I used to use xp on the lappy but i building dedicated gaming box. I might try  dual booting the lappy at some point. I'm in no hurry to reinstall xp.  ;)

---

### Post by solwic on 2009-10-30
> **mjhouska said:**
> It's working great so far on my Thinkpad T60P. I used to use xp on the lappy but i building dedicated gaming box. I might try  dual booting the lappy at some point. I'm in no hurry to reinstall xp.  ;)

I don't know if they changed anything in 9.10 or not, but touchpad functionality is much more robust and much smoother in Karmic.  I still hate the touchpad, but it's working better now than it did with Jaunty.  

Try it on your laptop.  Karmic is freakin' smokin' fast on my little POS Acer.  :)

EDIT:  And finally!  Someone else who calls their laptop a "lappy"!  I was beginning to think I was the only one.  Everybody laughs at me for it.  

You watch StrongBad?  :P

---

### Post by soni1770 on 2009-10-31
got my system pretty much set up after a fresh install, i think it's rocking

---

### Post by ericmc783 on 2009-11-01
after a few days, this continues to be great.

speedtest.net tests confirm that my net connection is in the 92nd-percentile worldwide. (Obviously, there is more that goes into this than your OS, but I'm sure having Ubuntu doesn't hurt). General operations are fast and stable as well.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-01
I installed karmic about 12 hours ago, and have been using it all day. Not one single hiccup or glitch. For me, this is the smoothest, fastest ubuntu yet. Perfect.

---

### Post by ~williahayd~ on 2009-11-01
Loving Karmic, Upgraded with no problem and very few issues after that. Good job devs!

---

### Post by madmax75 on 2009-11-01
My experience is not as rosy.

I upgraded 9.04 to 9.10, and BAM! - my Huawei E169 3G broadband modem stopped working. Completely. Network Manager didn't pay any attention to it, wvdial didn't do anything.

Luckily I had my phone, so I was able to surf to Ubuntu Forums and I did manage to find a temporary solution to this.

I also had no sound at all, but it suddenly started to work somehow after I installed the w32codecs from Medibuntu (I have no idea if they have anything to do with it, but before that - no sound, after that - sound, so something changed for the positive).

This 3G broadband modem stuff needs to get fixed ASAP. At least here in Finland there are lots of people having laptops and 3G dongles as their ONLY connection to the internet. 9.10 seems to have a major problem with these. 9.04 worked out of the box, but 9.10 has been a definite change for worse.

My perspective - 9.10 was released prematurely. These kind of networking issues should be fixed before a major release, not with bug fixes sometime after. If you can't get to the net in the first place, how exactly are you supposed to get the bug fixes (IF they come) in place?

If the temporary fix to my 3G dongle stops working, I will re-install 9.04 and won't touch 9.10 again at least for several months. Now, it is simply broken.

---

### Post by ronnielsen1 on 2009-11-01
I would have to agree. I like it. I installed it on my daughters computer and everything is recognized great. It flies.

My first attempt was on my box (with a better video card but still junk - radeon 6200) and neither video or sound worked (but that will be a different post.

Anyway, I really like it. I think the installer should have a way to save /home easily but that's my ONLY complaint.

---

### Post by wsscott on 2009-11-01
I have dual boot laptop w/ 9.04 and XP.  I use XP for an Epson scanner that I gave up trying to get to work on 9.04.  Installed 9.10 on my desktop and tested the scanner.....worked immediately after downloading the linux plugins from Epson.  Will update the laptop to 9.10 ASAP.  9.10 also fixed  problems I was having w/ Nvidia. I honestly see no reason to keep XP! 

Thanks!!

---

### Post by BigSilly on 2009-11-01
Add me to the "Karmic is Awesome" fanclub! It's not been perfect; I think there's some problems with Pulseaudio that need mopping up. I've had it cause a couple of crashes with some apps, and sound problems still occurring with others. But otherwise everything has been utterly fantastic. 

I'm using the 64 bit version on my desktop, and the Karmic UNR on the Eee PC 701, and both are simply stunning. The bit that's really pleased me more than anything so far, is the fact that Compiz and AWN are so stable and trouble free for me. This hasn't been the case in all the years I've tried them, but now on Karmic I can use them and everything is working as it should. And I'm really bloody enjoying it. :D

Yet another brilliant release. My heartfelt thanks to the developers.

---

### Post by errors on 2009-11-01
I sign onder the awesome part!!!! I'm loving the karmic koala! Great work every one!!!!

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-11-01
> **BigSilly said:**
> Add me to the "Karmic is Awesome" fanclub! It's not been perfect; I think there's some problems with Pulseaudio that need mopping up.
Agreed on both fronts. :) I've issues with the inbuilt Mic in my laptop in Skype that are more than likely pulseaudio related as it works fine in apps like Audacity. Aside from that it's been brilliant, I'm not too mad on Grub 2 mind you, but that too has worked fine for me. 

Yup, Karmic = Awesome! :D

---

### Post by YoungCthulhu on 2009-11-05
Just installed over the weekend, clean install on a fresh partition and everything worked great.  Previously ran 8.04 and had a bad problem with the new wireless modem that was supplied by our ISP when we upgraded (Optus).  Glad to say that once I realised I had the CAPS lock down I the computer connected to our home wireless router and on the internet without so much as a murmur of complaint.

GIMP works just fine with my WACOM pen tablet too, unlike 8.04 which was balky.  Am looking forward to drawing once more.

Used XP since May '09 because of this and have not enjoyed the experience. I am glad to be back on the side of Righteousness, Truth, Justice and those great apple pies you can get made with real apples and short crust pastry :lolflag:

---

