---
title: "8.04 - it works for me!"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by anewguy on 2008-04-25
Did the upgrade last night - ran into a little problem but I think all is ok.  Wireless worked again right away, video worked again right away - including desktop effects (ATI 9250) - everything seems fine.  I've seen the post regarding problems (including 1 of my own), but Hardy really does seem to be working great for me.  I don't do anything special, no fancy networking, no fancy hardware (all I've got is a PIII-500, 512mb, ATI 9250, 80gb disk) with an ANCIENT motherboard, 'cause it's all I can afford - so please excuse the use of the term "fancy").

So, while we know there have been and will be some problems (that's normal with ANY OS when it changes), I'm happy as a lark right now.  I wanted to post this to show a positive spin on what can otherwise look bad - let's face it, we ask questions about things that don't work here, don't we?

My thanks to everyone who has had the skill, knowledge and time to contribute to this wonderful experience!:)

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-04-25
Congrats and good luck! :KS

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-25
I like the fact that Ubuntu (and Linux in general) can be run on older hardware, make use of the recycling.

---

### Post by the8thstar on 2008-04-25
It works extremely well with my computer (specs in sig below). It's the best release so far in terms of usability. Maybe because I've grown as a user while Ubuntu ws growing as a distro? ;)

---

### Post by grannyw on 2008-04-25
u r lucky cause there are alot of people that r not

---

### Post by toasterofirony on 2008-04-25
I upgraded and mostly things work, though I'm in the process of dl'ing the CD via BitTorrent (lol legal p2p usage). My main complaints are:

- The sound doesn't want to play ball. Once one program uses it, nothing else can. Including the same program.

- Occasionally the gnome-panel chokes and I have to fire up a terminal and kill-all to restart it.

- Apps start and then stop with not much in the way of a wherefore. Especially Firefox.

I don't want to sound like I'm ragging on the upgrade process, it was smooth and easy, it's just there seem to be some glitches in a few programs.

---

### Post by kamitsukai on 2008-04-25
> **grannyw said:**
> u r lucky cause there are alot of people that r not

Not trying to be picky or annoying but could you refrain from using  single letters instead of words like "u" and "you" as this is an international English speaking forum and it confuses so many non native  English speakers (although based in Israel i would of thought you knew this...so i'll just shutup:))

---

### Post by 1875 on 2008-04-25
Wheres the no problem at all option ? Everything has worked out of the (virtual) box for me.:)

---

### Post by ethoxyethaan on 2008-04-25
I wish I could say the same thing.
but I cant.

Dell latitude D830 

6.XX never worked on it.
7.10 worked on it (jeej)
8.04 works at first but incompatible with Video card.

I wish there where some advanced users Online right now that could check out my topic about it.

ANYHOW: congrats!

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-04-25
The only problem I experienced was with my graphics driver.  Ubuntu tried installing the nvidia-glx-new driver and all I got was 640x480 graphics.  Unloaded that driver and loaded nvidia-glx and now everything works correctly.  Really like this 8.04 build alot.

---

### Post by rfruth on 2008-04-25
So far (2 weeks now) I'm VERY impressed with HH :)

---

### Post by dannytatom on 2008-04-25
> **toasterofirony said:**
> 
- The sound doesn't want to play ball. Once one program uses it, nothing else can. Including the same program.

- Apps start and then stop with not much in the way of a wherefore. Especially Firefox.

I'm having those same two problems, reinstalling alsa and all, but to no avail. :/

---

### Post by jimdhall2 on 2008-04-25
Works great!  Thanks to all who put lots of hard work into putting this new release together..  The upgrade process went very well, thank you!!

---

### Post by hermes0710 on 2008-04-25
For the sound problem i suppose your are talking about playback of mp3 and flash (youtube together). If this is the situation reinstall pulseaudio ```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall pulseaudio
```

---

### Post by pedja_portugalac on 2008-04-25
It works for me to. OK, I didn't at the moment have installed every extra package I usually use cause I still test the distribution. Firestarter works fine, rkhunter also. I have problem to install vodafones linux driver for 3G connect box but OOZIEs config package work as with gutsy. I like new things in firefox, help manual in GIMP, etc. Next week I'll get internet connection of 30 mbps and then I'll install all the extra packages I need, realplayer, dvd:::rip, ubuntu-restricted, etc. At the moment I pay 40€ a month for portugals vodafone 3G mobile internet connection which is supposed to run up to 3,6 mbps but in fact it never get nor 200 kbps. :smile:

---

### Post by mlwalter on 2008-04-25
I tried upgrading to alpha 6 release, I believe, and had problems with sound and wireless networking.  So much so that I went back to 7.10.  Well, reluctantly I installed the release candidate earlier this week.  The sound worked fine and I was able to get the wireless working with a little work (all the same stuff I had to get it working in 7.10).  So far, I am please with what I see.

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-25
By the Way, I can't vote in the poll. There's no option for "My Hardy experience has been perfect" i.e I've had no issues.

I had issues at Alpha 5 on my desktop, so I left it until Beta. But it was fine then

---

### Post by Liakath on 2008-04-25
I did a fresh install using the Beta. Went on update route to get all the updates. Works fine. But only a small glitch with my NVIDIA GEFORCE 6200 Card. I am able to enable it it 2.6.24 Generic Kernel. But when I enable it in 2.6.24-rt kernel with Ubuntu Studio I get a black screen on reboot. So I am using only the generic kernel. Other wise I am quite happy :):) with the install.

---

### Post by Liakath on 2008-04-25
I did a fresh install with beta and went through the updates as and when made available. Overall it had been working fine. Only a few glitches.

1. With 2.6.24 generic kernel I can enable my NVIDIA card. But with 2.6.24-rt kernel when I enable it I am unable to get the login screen. Living with 2.6.24-generic kernel.

2. Somehow I am unable to get aptoncd work. It is able create fine; but when I try to restore it crashes!!. I am not able to figure it out.

Otherwise it was a smooth road so far.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2008-04-26
bump

---

### Post by jd65pl on 2008-04-26
I think it has move along a lot since dapper, the upgrade process is much more solid. However I have separate root and home partitions so just do a fresh install each upgrade.

---

### Post by armandh on 2008-04-26
If the "Easy" standard is an xp install, Ubuntu is WAY easier from the first time I tried it (fiesty). pre installed OS from the mfg will always be easiest. remember when one had to get the CD working to load 95?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2008-04-26
bump.

---

### Post by noswal on 2008-04-26
I tried breezy 2 years ago, came back to it last month and upgraded to dapper, then unpgraded to hardy on release. A bit of time to get internet to work but after that downloaded updates, configured media (dvd & cd) and all that I need from a desktop is working well.

---

### Post by Samueltehg33k on 2008-04-26
you guys are having problems? IM NOT! IMO the best Ubuntu huge props to the development team for the awesome installer you rock :guitar:

---

### Post by vrangforestillinger on 2008-04-26
Hardy works great! I kept my home-partition, installed over gutsy and ran a simple script (a list of all the packages I need to do my work with a "sudo apt-get install" infront.) Nothing broke!

Well, except for the nspluginwrapper/flash-hack. But it turned out its redundant since swfdec-mozilla does the job now. Small problems with sound there. Sound in flash-animations doesnt work when im using rythmbox (probably the same with other sound-programs). When I pause the playback, It works if the flash is reloaded. But then the sound in rythmbox is broken. Oh well, I can live with that.

Bottom line: Everything except flash-sound works as before or better.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2008-04-27
bump

---

### Post by Bubba64 on 2008-04-27
The upgrade a month ago on the desktop has had no problems. The laptop upgrade froze many times until I did a ISO alternative reinstall, had a few freezes but none for the last couple of days since the last couple of last minute downloads before the release.

---

### Post by blenderhead on 2008-04-27
After using the 8.04 alphas and beta (upgraded from 7.10), i wanted to do a clean install. The Live CD absolutely would not work, the install kept failing. Tried the alternate install CD and it worked like a charm.

---

### Post by vvlist on 2008-04-27
Where's the "Yes - no problems at all, it's the best distro I've ever used" option? :) Seriously, it recognized -all- of my hardware. That's the first time, as it's pretty newish (about a year old).

---

### Post by andied on 2008-04-27
I am glad to discover this thread; I installed the Ubuntu Beta version over a week ago and then applied all of the updates and everything went almost perfectly and I was very enthused, thinking this is the "one"; after trying numerous versions of Linux over the last few years, this one is good enough to replace my XP.

After getting everything installed and running beautifully, I decided to have a look at the forums and see how everyone else was doing, and I was certainly surprised and disappointed to see all the problems, and I started thinking maybe I was just lucky, but it is nice to see that there others that have also had great success with this version.

---

### Post by salvador_luna on 2008-04-27
Works fine in a Compaq v3617la after installing the video driver and using ndiswrapper for my broadcom wireless card (note that network manager can't detect it):

Some specs:
- Mobile AMD Sempron 3600+.
- Broadcom Corporation BCM94311MCG wlan mini-PCI (rev 02)
- nVidia Corporation GeForce 7150M (installed “nvidia-glx-new” "nvidia-glx-new-dev”, and “nvidia-new-kernel-source”)

Sorry about my english.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2008-04-27
I had intended this thread to have 3 purposes - a place where those with success could say so and perhaps the hardware they had success on, a place where those without success might be able to say so and maybe find a solution, and finally as a tool to the developers and the distribution people to have a possible gauge as to how things are going.  To do so requires bumping the post up so that others can see and reply to it, since replies are unique.  However, I have been dinged by the forum for thread bumping - so please, no more responses, no more activity, consider the thread closed and of no use.

Thank you.

---

