---
title: "11.10 is great"
date: 2011-10-24
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by rrashkin on 2011-10-24
I know my needs are modest, as are my abilities, but let me just jump in and say that I think 11.10 is really splendid.  I did have a minor panic attack trying to locate the menu bar in Firefox but accidentally discovered that, like the launch bar, it just appears when you need it.  Everything worked fine (in 2-D mode) and I don't miss Gnome anymore.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-10-24
Moved to Testimonials

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-10-24
@Nothingspecial: That was fast

@OP: very good, but note that Unity still uses Gnome.

---

### Post by johnnybgoode83 on 2011-10-24
I am also very happy with 11.10, it does everything I need it to do and more.  I can't ask more than that.

---

### Post by forestfarms on 2011-10-24
Without question, one of the top 10 operating system user interfaces of the year!

---

### Post by Viman on 2011-10-24
YES!

We need more people like this. I hated Unity at first, but all it took was an open mind and an Oneiric LiveCD .

People need to open up a little. Interfaces evolve for a reason, and usually is because they need to be improved!

---

### Post by johnnybgoode83 on 2011-10-24
> **Viman said:**
> YES!

We need more people like this. I hated Unity at first, but all it took was an open mind and an Oneiric LiveCD .

People need to open up a little. Interfaces evolve for a reason, and usually is because they need to be improved!

I didn't like it in 11.04 but I knew it was still a young interface and that it would get better with each release.  I am so happy to be proven right.

---

### Post by ianp5a on 2011-10-25
> **Viman said:**
> 
We need more people like this. I hated Unity at first, but all it took was an **open mind** and an Oneiric LiveCD .
People need to open up a little. Interfaces evolve for a reason, and usually is because they need to be improved!

Sadly one band of user types don't like change regardless of how much easier things get.

But not all people who are complaining are doing it for that reason. Don't assume that it is just people who do not have an **open mind** are complaining.

Unity is *not* an evolution of the old interface. They've made some radical changes. None of which I mind at all. But removing functionality without workarounds is the killer. 
They have also focussed on a narrower band of user types. Forgetting that different people work in differernt ways. But that's just a sign of Canonicals lack of experience in this field.

***>People need to open up a little.***:  What? People with 2 monitors? Should they 'open up' by switching one monitor off then?

---

### Post by bizz101 on 2011-10-25
I like it now too. Whatever desktop I try after unity I have a feeling my screen is wasted because unity saves lots of pixels on screen.

This is after several months of usage in dev/programming environment. All you have to do is get used to it. And learn shortcuts! alt-tab :)

---

