---
title: "8.04 Live CD incompatible with ASUS motherboard and other 8.04 problems"
date: 2008-07-13
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by stevech on 2008-07-13
I say 8.04 isn't ready for prime time.

I've used Ubuntu 7 for a long time. Decided to upgrade to 8.04. Same computer, but:
Install 8.04 in place failed. non-sensical error.
I booted the 8.04 live CD (after using the on-CD validator). Also did MD5 check of downloaded ISO image.

Lots of problems with 8.04. (version 7 just ran first try) 

1) Live CD boots then switches to graphical screen and screen goes all grey. No text. Disk light suggests Linux is indeed running.  I'm using the same PC and graphics board as with version 7:

Video card is on-motherboard, Nvidia 6xx. 

2) I'm in Pacific Time zone. Live CD set BIOS time wrong so when I rebooted Windows, had to reset.

3) PC with two SATA drives and one IDE drive. The partition wizard GUI does not handle this configuration correctly. I was trying to load 8.04 on top of/replace Ubuntu 7 on a SATA. Wizard failed after choosing "resize Windows partition and use free space". Wrong logic. It failed, saying "Too Small". The wizard is really badly incorrectly implemented for other than the single-drive case.

Really disappointed in poorly tested Ubuntu 8.04 as compared to the flawless prior release.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-07-13
did you check the cd for defects and such?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-07-13
I running a older MSI motherboard with 1 ATA drive and  2 SATA drives and an internal Nvidia 6130 video chip set.  I can install with no problem. I've never liked automatic partitioning so I always use the manual option and all my drives show up in gparted like they are supposed to. You may want to try no starting up with **noapic**. to see if this solve some of your problems.

Jim

---

### Post by stevech on 2008-07-13
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I running a older MSI motherboard with 1 ATA drive and  2 SATA drives and an internal Nvidia 6130 video chip set.  I can install with no problem. I've never liked automatic partitioning so I always use the manual option and all my drives show up in gparted like they are supposed to. You may want to try no starting up with **noapic**. to see if this solve some of your problems.

Jim

startup with noapic is greek to me. I did try the manual option and specified a partition that previously was ext3 with Ubuntu 7. Didn't work either. frustrating, because Ubuntu 7 just ran.

My main issue is that unlike the prior version, 8.04's live CD won't run on this ASUS AMD motherboard. It's a one year old motherboard, nvidia GeForce 6100 chipset. I ran live CD in the dumb video driver mode OK though, hoping to get it running and switch drivers later. GeForce 6100 was NOT in version 7 and I incorrectly assumed that it would be in version 8.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-07-13
> **stevech said:**
> I say 8.04 isn't ready for prime time.
I say it is ready for prime time

> **stevech said:**
> Really disappointed in poorly tested Ubuntu 8.04 as compared to the flawless prior release.
I'm positivley surprised at that extensive tested hardy compared to the bugged prior release.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2008-07-13
Moved to Testimonials & Experiences. 

> **stevech said:**
> I say 8.04 isn't ready for prime time.
Duly noted.

---

### Post by saratchandra on 2008-07-13
I installed 8.04 on an asus motherboard pc without problems. I didn't even have a video card, just the inbulit sis one.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-07-13
because it doesnt work on *your* computer, it must be junk. it doesnt work well on every computer in the world. it must be garbage. vista doesnt run on my cousin's pc. it must be junk. xp doesnt play nice on one of my customers laptop. it must be junk. i heard there are people having problems with OSX. it must be junk. oh wait, i forgot. your computer is how all OS's  are judged. nevermind the millions of people it works good for. if it doesnt work well on *your* computer, it's not worth a dime. i have an idea. call mark shuttleworth and the media and alert them of the news. they will promptly stop printing ubuntu cd's until it works on *your* computer. we all know the world revolves around you.

on another note, i've installed ubuntu on over 25 pc's with very little fuss. it must be great, right? i mean, if it works good on that many computers, it *must* be awesome. alert the media! 

the bottom line is, either fix your problem, or use something else. but to say it is not ready for primetime is absurd. next time do better research when choosing components or just stick with windows. for the love of god.....

> Really disappointed in poorly tested Ubuntu 8.04 as compared to the flawless prior release. stevech is disappointed, let us observe a moment of silence.

did you ever think of installing it and getting all 220 updates? no?

---

### Post by stevech on 2008-07-13
> **wolfen69 said:**
> because it doesnt work on *your* computer, it must be junk. it doesnt work well on every computer in the world. it must be garbage. vista doesnt run on my cousin's pc. it must be junk. xp doesnt play nice on one of my customers laptop. it must be junk. i heard there are people having problems with OSX. it must be junk. oh wait, i forgot. your computer is how all OS's  are judged. nevermind the millions of people it works good for. if it doesnt work well on *your* computer, it's not worth a dime. i have an idea. call mark shuttleworth and the media and alert them of the news. they will promptly stop printing ubuntu cd's until it works on *your* computer. we all know the world revolves around you.

on another note, i've installed ubuntu on over 25 pc's with very little fuss. it must be great, right? i mean, if it works good on that many computers, it *must* be awesome. alert the media! 

the bottom line is, either fix your problem, or use something else. but to say it is not ready for primetime is absurd. next time do better research when choosing components or just stick with windows. for the love of god.....

 stevech is disappointed, let us observe a moment of silence.

did you ever think of installing it and getting all 220 updates? no?


As I said earlier in this thread - I installed Ubuntu 7 in 2007 with zero issues. But I did spend (too much) time getting Nvida drivers for video and GigE. Now, same computer, same video, the Ubuntu 8.04 live disk doesn't run - video driver yields a blank screen unless I use safe mode. Live CD in v7 worked OK. This is for starters, in the bug list. So my gripes are legitimate. I have a mainstream ASUS M2N-MX (AM2) motherboard with onboard Nvidia graphics.

---

### Post by dnairb on 2008-07-13
You say you did an MD5sum check on the .iso image and there were no errors - good.
Did you also check the burnt CD for errors?

From your Ubuntu 7 installation:

-put the 8.04 CD in the drive
-open a terminal and type:

```
cd /cdrom
md5sum -c md5sum.txt | grep -v 'OK$'
```

This will check each file on the CD with the codes in the md5sum.txt file on the CD. If there are no errors, you will be returned to the terminal prompt (there will be no output from the command).

There is also an option when booting from the CD to test the CD for defects.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-07-13
the bottom line is that there will always be a few computers that will not run ubuntu properly. when you think about it, it is an amazing thing that it works on as many computers as it does. we are talking about 1 cd that tries to work on hundreds of configurations. pretty amazing if you ask me. myself and others have had great success with hardy. therefore, in my eyes, it is great. if 7.10 worked so well for you, then use that. you just happened to be one of the unlucky few. get over it.

---

### Post by stevech on 2008-07-13
> **wolfen69 said:**
> the bottom line is that there will always be a few computers that will not run ubuntu properly. when you think about it, it is an amazing thing that it works on as many computers as it does. we are talking about 1 cd that tries to work on hundreds of configurations. pretty amazing if you ask me. myself and others have had great success with hardy. therefore, in my eyes, it is great. if 7.10 worked so well for you, then use that. you just happened to be one of the unlucky few. get over it.

I agree. Just odd that 8.04 is a regression, for my PC, as compared to version 7, and that the Live CD for 8.04 won't even run the video card but 7's did.

---

### Post by armandh on 2008-07-14
Ive had a lot of problems too

mostly bad/old equipment.

I like to use a partition disk and leave where I want ubuntu unpartitioned, then use the largest unpartitioned space option.

---

