---
title: "12.04 unity is unuseable"
date: 2012-10-20
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by bliffle on 2012-10-20
I installed 12.04 new from a USB stick, and although it worked a few hours it gradually got worse and now it even stops me from entering keystrokes. Plus, I can't turn the computer off, I have to pull the power cord and the battery. The computer is an X60s that has worked well for 3 years.

At first I was annoyed by the loss of screen realestate to Unity on the left margin (and no apparent way to get rid of it) but I thought I could go about my business anyway.

Fishing around in YouTube, after watching a bunch of really lousy tutorials that featured images flashing on and off the screen at incredible speed and garbled verbalisations in British argot half-hidden by really obnoxious music, I finally found something that said install "gnome-panels", so I re-started and used the brief window I get after a restart to run synaptics, install gnome-panels, and give it a try, but no joy.

So now I'm reduced to using a windows7 system to get in here (luckily I still have a solid XP system in reserve).

What a defeat! I'm afraid to answer the phone for fear a windows friend is calling to inquire about my new 12.04 system.

I'd be happy to get my keyboard back from whatever software troll stole it.

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-10-20
I see no posts on the forum trying to fix any issues.  May I suggest trying that?


404

---

### Post by uRock on 2012-10-20
Doesn't appear to be asking for help, therefore moved to Testimonials & Experiences.

I use Unity perfectly well on my systems. Maybe you should give Xubuntu, Kubuntu, or Lubuntu a try. You may also look into installing [Cinnamon]("http://www.linuxbsdos.com/2012/09/20/install-cinnamon-1-6-in-ubuntu-12-04-lts/").

---

### Post by AlexDudko on 2012-10-20
> **bliffle said:**
>  Plus, I can't turn the computer off, I have to pull the power cord and the battery. The computer is an X60s that has worked well for 3 years.


Is it a Lenovo Thinkpad notebook? You don't need to "pull the power cord and the battery". Simply press the power button and hold it pressed for a couple of seconds.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-10-21
> **bliffle said:**
> At first I was annoyed by the loss of screen realestate to Unity on the left margin (and no apparent way to get rid of it) but I thought I could go about my business anyway.

The Appearance program allows you to set the Unity Launcher to auto-hide. I suggest doing that, and then turning up the sensitivity so it doesn't take so much effort to make it show again.

> I finally found something that said install "gnome-panels", so I re-started and used the brief window I get after a restart to run synaptics, install gnome-panels, and give it a try, but no joy.

A couple of things I'll point out here. Firstly, Unity is a very different interface to Gnome 2, but after about a week of using Unity I found I loved it. You probably just need to give it some time to grow on you. It has some very, very nice features that have never been possible in Gnome 2. Unity's biggest strength is its ability to search - once you've started using that, you'll never be able to live without it.

The other thing I'll point out is that you probably didn't follow the instructions properly, or the instructions you were given were incomplete. In order to get a Gnome 2-alike interface, you need to install Gnome Panel **AND** select it from the cog menu at the login screen.

> I'd be happy to get my keyboard back from whatever software troll stole it.

Well, Ubuntu 12.10 is out now. It might bring your keyboard back.

---

