---
title: "Ubuntu 64 bit LTS"
date: 2012-01-16
forum: Testimonials &amp; Experiences
---

### Post by Welly Wu on 2012-01-16
Hi. I am going to stick to the topic at hand and I will follow the rules set for this specific forum within this thread.

I recently switched from Microsoft Windows 7 Ultimate 64 bit to Ubuntu 10.04.3 64 bit Long Term Support with LUKS/LVM full disk encryption using AES-CBC 256 bits and SHA-512 hash algorithm. The reason why I switched is due to the fact that I literally ran out of money last week to purchase another software application called Driver Robot for $39.99 USD in order to install device drivers for my Microsoft Windows 7 Ultimate 64 bit operating system which were out of date or incorrectly installed by myself since I performed a clean installation of Windows 7 Ultimate 64 bit on my ASUS N61JV-X2 notebook PC. The Reliability Monitor indicated that my system reliability and stability ranked at the lowest 1 on a scale of 10. My Windows 7 Ultimate 64 bit operating system kept freezing and locking up randomly. I was afraid that it would cause permanent damage to my expensive notebook PC because I purchased Crucial 8 gigabytes of DDR3 PC-8500 1,066 MHz SODIMM SDRAM and an Intel 2nd Generation MLC NAND FLASH X25-M 160 gigabyte Solid State Drive which are currently installed on my ASUS N61JV-X2 notebook PC. So, out with Windows 7 Ultimate 64 bit and in with Ubuntu 10.04.3 64 bit LTS.

It has been quite the change. Not all of my hardware devices work right out of the box, but that is to be expected since ASUS released the ASUS N61JV-X2 notebook PC back in early March 2010 and Ubuntu 10.04 LTS was released in late April 2010. I did install Ubuntu 11.10 64 bit and almost all of my hardware devices worked right out of the box except my Synaptics touch pad for some unknown reason, but other ASUS owners report the same problems with Ubuntu 11.10 64 bit. It now works in Ubuntu 10.04.3 64 bit LTS. I still need to get my Nvidia GeForce GT 325M GPU and Optimus along with my ASUS USB-BT211 Bluetooth 2.1 + EDR dongle to work properly in Ubuntu 10.04.3 64 bit LTS, but I am holding out little hope until the release of Ubuntu 12.04 64 bit LTS on April 26th, 2012. When it is released to the general public, I will download the Ubuntu 12.04 64 bit LTS Alternative Installation .ISO file and burn it onto a blank CD-R or DVD-R disc and I will perform a custom clean installation to enable LUKS/LVM full disk encryption using the same AES-CBC 256 bits with SHA-512 hash algorithm. I will save the .ISO file to my Seagate FreeAgent Desk external hard disk drive which is protected by TrueCrypt AES-XTS 256 bits with SHA-512 hash algorithm as a backup.

I love Ubuntu 10.04.3 64 bit LTS! It has saved me an enormous amount of time and money. I no longer get system freezes and lockups every few minutes anymore. I can use my computer normally.

There are some things that vex me about Ubuntu in general. I wish hardware device compatibility worked for all of my hardware devices right out of the box, but I know it is due to the fact that I will need Ubuntu 12.04 64 bit LTS to fix those problems. I like the new Unity 3D a lot, but I wish Canonical did not get rid of the older GNOME 2.x as a result. OpenOffice works with my Microsoft Office 2010 64 bit documents for the most part, but the formatting of Word and Excel documents seems to be a little bit off when I open files, but they are easily fixed by converting the data to the OpenOffice format documents and a few modifications to the data. PowerPoint slides work properly in OpenOffice. LibreOffice offers better compatibility and more up to date support for its users; I look forward to LibreOffice in Ubuntu 12.04 64 bit LTS as my preferred office productivity suite. Banshee and Rhythmbox no longer retrieve audio CD information correctly, but I realize that this is due to the fact that Musicbrainz changed their backend about three months ago and nobody seems to know when this problem will be solved. K9Copy seems to work to copy DVD-Video movies, but it consistently crashes in Ubuntu regardless of the version. I have had a Dickens of a time trying to rebuild my music and movie libraries so those project have come to a halt for me.

Otherwise, I am happy that I made the switch because I simply can not afford to keep purchasing software applications to fix Microsoft Windows anymore on a limited fixed income monthly budget. I try to preach Ubuntu to my family and friends, but they are mired in the Microsoft mindset and they regard Ubuntu as a difficult to use GNU/Linux operating system that is designed for hardcore computer geeks and nerds or hackers. I guess that fits my description now. Ever since making the switch, I have learned so much and I am proud of my ability to solve specific technical problems with the help of this community. I am eternally grateful that Ubuntu users regularly help out fellow users for free and they offer some of the best ideas and technical support. The amount of time and money that I have already saved is quite significant. I can now afford to spend my money on other things in my life instead of throwing more good money to waste trying to solve Microsoft Windows problems.

Ubuntu is easy to download, install, and use. The LTS releases are really my preferred versions of choice because they offer maximum stability, reliability, and speed along with performance. Ubuntu is lightning fast on my ASUS N61JV-X2 notebook PC thanks largely to the Intel X25-M SSD and my Intel Original Core i5-430M CPU along with Crucial 8 gigabytes of DDR3 SDRAM. I was able to get myself up and running in less than 30 minutes. Ubuntu provides high quality software packages at no cost to handle almost any general purpose function and I have not had to install that many software packages to meet my needs.

I am eagerly looking forward to Ubuntu 12.04 64 bit LTS. It represents a dramatic shift in terms of innovative new technologies and progress. I especially look forward to the hardware compatibility and Unity 3D as I find it makes my life much simpler and easier. Canonical plans to make Ubuntu available on tablets and smart phones by 14.04 LTS; I am looking forward to the new class of tablets and smart phones running Ubuntu to replace my ASUS EEE Pad Transformer and Samsung Intercept devices running Google Android 3.2 Honeycomb and 2.2 Froyo.

Well, that's it. I love Ubuntu! My next computer purchase will be a System76 Bonobo Professional with all of the highest end hardware upgrades and I plan to own mine by April 2014. I expect to spend up to $5,050.00 USD including shipping fees. I am looking forward to Intel's Thunderbolt, new CPUs, and dual SATA-III or IV Intel Solid State Drives in RAID 0 hardware configuration along with an 32 gigabytes or more of RAM and the highest end Nvidia GeForce GTX GPU with at least 3 gigabytes of DDR5 VRAM at the time of purchase. I hope it will come with 4G LTE as an upgrade option too and 802.11 AC Wi-Fi plus a Full HD 1080p resolution 17.1" LED color screen.

Thanks for reading and I thank you for your help with various threads that I have posted within the various forums. I am an Ubuntu user for the rest of my life.

---

