---
title: "6.06 and PostgreSQL 8.2"
date: 2007-03-03
forum: Repositories &amp; Backports
---

### Post by ComputingFroggy on 2007-03-03
Hi,

Does anyone know whether there's going to be a package of PostgreSQL version 8.2 for Ubuntu 6.06 Dapper Drake ?
I don't want to compile it as I need a package maintained with security patches to be used by my clients.

There's one for 6.10 but not for 6.06 : that's a shame !


Cheers,
L@u

---

### Post by theQmaster on 2007-06-17
Did you find a backport for 8.2 in 6.06(dapper) ?

I can't move to edgy due to the fact this server has no monitor nor keyboard attached to it and I can't run any graphical interface so my options to get 8.2 are slimmer. 

Currently I have postgresql 7.4.7 and it seems that it's kindoff slow - anyone noticed that ?

Q

---

### Post by theQmaster on 2007-06-17
What if I point to edgy and try to do an istall postgresql will that fail ?

---

### Post by chunkybacon on 2007-06-28
> **theQmaster said:**
> Did you find a backport for 8.2 in 6.06(dapper) ?

I can't move to edgy due to the fact this server has no monitor nor keyboard attached to it and I can't run any graphical interface so my options to get 8.2 are slimmer. 

Currently I have postgresql 7.4.7 and it seems that it's kindoff slow - anyone noticed that ?

Q

8.2 doesn't appear to be in Dapper's backports.  8.1 is in Dapper just fine and runs great.  I'd advise upgrading your 7.4 to 8.1 at least if not just for performance reasons.

---

### Post by theQmaster on 2007-06-28
I managed to install the version before 7.04 is that 6.06 ?
THen I upgrade and I got 8.2 installed. I wouldn't complain, I was waiting for 8.2 for long ling time 7.4.7 is slow and heavy.:popcorn:

> **chunkybacon said:**
> 8.2 doesn't appear to be in Dapper's backports.  8.1 is in Dapper just fine and runs great.  I'd advise upgrading your 7.4 to 8.1 at least if not just for performance reasons.

---

