---
title: "9.10 beta - internet connection problem and workaround"
date: 2009-10-05
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by mikio on 2009-10-05
hi,

i am writing to share my ubuntu 9.10 beta testing experience. i found a problem and a workaround that might be useful to others.

the problem showed by extremely slow internet response. i tried pinging domain names, and the response was very slow. i then tried pinging ip addresses directly and there was no problem there.

googling around i found a workaround. i changed the file /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf adding the following line:

prepend domain-name-servers 208.67.222.222,208.67.220.220;

from then on the problem disappeared. note that this is a workaround and no solution, i also do not know what the problem is, but might be able to further diagnose it - should anyone ask for more information.

further possibly relevant details:

1.) when pinging a domain, the resolution of it's ip was instantaneous -> it was the response that was delayed

2.) i upgraded from jaunty

hope this helps!

---

### Post by J Caffrey on 2009-10-09
Sorry if I sound dumb. What is the terminal command to edit this file please? I'm having this problem too.

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-10-09
You can use nano for it.

if you do echo $EDITOR you will see what editor is your default editor, if it is one you like you can also do:

$EDITOR file and it will open the file with your preferred editor.

---

### Post by J Caffrey on 2009-10-09
Edited the file,it didn't work unfortunately,internet is terrible.Think I'll wait for a few weeks unless anyone has a suggestion.

---

### Post by darco on 2009-10-09
restart your network....


darco

---

### Post by J Caffrey on 2009-10-11
Restarted network but still no better.

---

### Post by taavikko on 2009-10-11
> **J Caffrey said:**
> Sorry if I sound dumb. What is the terminal command to edit this file please? I'm having this problem too.

If not using the ISP that uses those IP's for dns, original post won't help you at all.

Would be better if you'd tell what kind of an hardware you have and so on.

---

### Post by jbslaw on 2009-10-11
Those IPs are for OpenDNS, so they aren't dependent on any particular isp. [https://www.opendns.com/start/]("https://www.opendns.com/start/") I had to substitute them for my router's dns because of an obscure incompatibility between Karmic's networking and the router's.  Specifying OpenDNS was one of two changes that fixed the problem for me.  The other was changing the "hosts" line in /etc/nsswitch.conf per the discussion here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nss-mdns/+bug/94940]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nss-mdns/+bug/94940")

That
> **taavikko said:**
> If not using the ISP that uses those IP's for dns, original post won't help you at all.

Would be better if you'd tell what kind of an hardware you have and so on.

---

### Post by taavikko on 2009-10-11
> **jbslaw said:**
> Those IPs are for OpenDNS, so they aren't dependent on any particular isp. 

If so, then forget the previous comment.

---

### Post by J Caffrey on 2009-10-11
I have a Medion laptop,Ralink rt2860 wireless card.I did a clean install of Karmic.I tried connecting via lan cable to eliminate wireless card/driver issues but no improvment.My router is the Eircom supplied netopia nwg 2247 wireless router.I have no encryption but access is limited by mac address.

---

### Post by anselm on 2009-10-15
This work around worked for me :)

Thanks

---

### Post by Reiger on 2009-10-15
I solved my problems by simply fixing my router to a particular channel well away from what the neighbours are using. (For some reason everybody in my neighbourhood loves to use #7 and #11 so I put myself at #2.)

---

### Post by anselm on 2009-10-15
I'm using a wired connection but some of my computers use wireless will try changing channels on them.

---

### Post by urbinbliss on 2009-10-18
I was having a similar problem, with dns being extremely slow. I fixed it by configuring avahi-daemon "/etc/avahi/avahi-daemon.conf" with the correct host and domain names.

[http://man-wiki.net/index.php/8:avahi-daemon](http://man-wiki.net/index.php/8:avahi-daemon)

---

### Post by anselm on 2009-10-18
I've done mikio and urbinbliss fixes and both seem to work for me. Together my connection is faster, seperate not as fast.

---

### Post by ubu-for on 2009-10-18
Had the same problem with Jaunty.

Try [this solution]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6855351&postcount=15")!

---

### Post by mikio on 2009-10-19
hi,

i have new information on the problem - and a new, i believe better workaround.

the problem occurs because my router's ip address is written into the FIRST LINE of the file /etc/resolv.conf  - in my cause it reads:

nameserver 192.168.2.1 #<- this is my routers ip address
nameserver 194.168.4.100
nameserver 194.168.8.100

now, i went again and edited /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf, this time adding following prepend line:

prepend domain-name-servers 194.168.4.100,194.168.8.100;

i restarted my network - and all works well now. note that the prepend line merely forces my nameservers 194.168.4.100 and 194.168.8.100 to be written before the routers ip address in the /etc/resolv.conf file

i still don't know the cause of the problem:

- why is my routers ip address written into the first line of my /etc/resolv.conf file?
- why is this causing the problem?

hope this helps,
miki

---

### Post by DodgeV83 on 2009-10-20
> **mikio said:**
> hi,

i am writing to share my ubuntu 9.10 beta testing experience. i found a problem and a workaround that might be useful to others.

the problem showed by extremely slow internet response. i tried pinging domain names, and the response was very slow. i then tried pinging ip addresses directly and there was no problem there.

googling around i found a workaround. i changed the file /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf adding the following line:

prepend domain-name-servers 208.67.222.222,208.67.220.220;

from then on the problem disappeared. note that this is a workaround and no solution, i also do not know what the problem is, but might be able to further diagnose it - should anyone ask for more information.

further possibly relevant details:

1.) when pinging a domain, the resolution of it's ip was instantaneous -> it was the response that was delayed

2.) i upgraded from jaunty

hope this helps!

This 100% fixed my problem!  This and the link you posted.

In short for those new to this thread:

1.  In /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf add the following line:

prepend domain-name-servers 208.67.222.222,208.67.220.220;

2.  In /etc/nsswitch.conf edit this line

hosts: files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4

to this

hosts: files dns

Thanks again!

---

### Post by mikio on 2009-10-21
hi again,

yet an other update - yet an other solution/workaround. though again i do not know what exactly is going on - anyway, it seems less of a hack. this is what i did:

sudo apt-get install bind9

before doing that i also commented the prepend statement in /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf.

at the moment all seems to work as expected.

i hope at some point someone will figure what exactly causes this problem. from the replies i see that i am not the only one with the problem. i wonder - is bind9 meant to be installed? maybe it was removed when i upgraded to koala? (i did not have the problems before the upgrade)

best wishes,
miki

---

### Post by moore.bryan on 2009-10-22
Just to let everyone know about my little saga, in case someone else runs into this problem: 
* When I make the changes to /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf *alone*, nothing breaks but nothing speeds up, either.
* When I make the changes to /etc/nsswitch.conf *alone*, nothing breaks but nothing speeds up, either.
* When I install *bind9* and its dependencies *alone*, nothing breaks but nothing speeds up, either.
* **If** I make any combination of the changes above, I see a *minimal *speed increase but *cannot use any network (cifs, sshfs, samba) connection **at all***.

Oh, happy days!
:-)

---

