---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 alpha 6"
date: 2009-09-17
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by hotashes02 on 2009-09-17
if i update my 9.04 to 9.10 alpha 6 the themes, icons, custom login screen(My candy eyes) and everthing that i have(music, ect.) is going to be delete?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-09-17
Moved to Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion

---

### Post by dagrump on 2009-09-17
Quite possible, if you want to play with alpha releases you need to use a machine you don't need.
It's best not to run alphas, w/o good backups, & a sense of humour.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2009-09-17
No, it technically shouldn't. However when it comes to development releases, you can never be sure what will happen. Always prepare for the unexpected. It's best to use a spare computer or install it on a separate partition or hard drive.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2009-09-17
> **hotashes02 said:**
> if i update my 9.04 to 9.10 alpha 6 the themes, icons, custom login screen(My candy eyes) and everthing that i have(music, ect.) is going to be delete?

You are best off assuming everything will be deleted.

It shouldn't, but anything can happen at any time that requires format. This is development builds. Lots of bad stuff can happen. Some people can have lots of bad stuff happen, others will have nothing bad happen.

If you do decide to update (which I would not do, assuming 9.04 is working fine for you), then make sure to backup anything important!

What you should do, is download alpha 6, burn to livecd or liveusb, and test it out to make sure everything works. If something does not work file bugs and stuff. Get ready to migrate to 9.10 in October and wait for final release.

If you are using 9.04, are you using ext3 or ext4? 9.10 would be a good time to do clean format, as you will get ext4 by default, and grub2 by default. Lots of new technologies, so more chances of stuff not working when updating from 9.04 to 9.10.

---

### Post by hotashes02 on 2009-09-18
> **andrewabc said:**
> You are best off assuming everything will be deleted.

It shouldn't, but anything can happen at any time that requires format. This is development builds. Lots of bad stuff can happen. Some people can have lots of bad stuff happen, others will have nothing bad happen.

If you do decide to update (which I would not do, assuming 9.04 is working fine for you), then make sure to backup anything important!

What you should do, is download alpha 6, burn to livecd or liveusb, and test it out to make sure everything works. If something does not work file bugs and stuff. Get ready to migrate to 9.10 in October and wait for final release.

If you are using 9.04, are you using ext3 or ext4? 9.10 would be a good time to do clean format, as you will get ext4 by default, and grub2 by default. Lots of new technologies, so more chances of stuff not working when updating from 9.04 to 9.10.

I'm using ext4 I'm going to be fine when 9.10 come out?

---

### Post by Vanishing on 2009-09-18
I can only make a suggestion:
Back up everything that is important to you before your update attempt.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2009-09-18
> **hotashes02 said:**
> I'm using ext4 I'm going to be fine when 9.10 come out?

Yes you will be fine. Anyone using ext3 would be fine upgrading too. They would continue using ext3. ext4 is newer/better though, so that is why it would be a good time if someone had ext3 to format and do fresh install to get ext4.

I'm not sure if people upgrading will get new grub though. It shouldn't be a problem having old grub (don't want to see it set timer to 0).

---

