---
title: "9.10. Problems with su after dist-upgrade from jaunty to karmic"
date: 2009-10-05
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Tyler_Durden on 2009-10-05
Hi folks,
I have already posted this issue in another part of this forum, which unfortunately the wrong spot to post it:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1283138](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1283138)


Here a brief summary of my problem:

We have just updated our fileserver to Ubuntu 9.10. Since then we are experiencing problems with the su command. It is no longer possible to su <otheruser>:

~me: su <someoneelse>
Password:
initgroups: Operation not permitted
~me:


I have googled around a bit and found that sometimes file permissions of su were not set correctly. Yet:

~me: ls -ahl `which su`
-rwsr-xr-x 1 root root 36K 2009-07-31 15:59 /bin/su

So I assume this is not the real issue.


Additionally, we have tried to disable LDAP authentification and test su with a local user. Yet, no luck. It is now only possible to su as root.


Unfortunately, we needed the Karmic release due to the fact that no backports of Samba 3.4 are available to the last release of Ubuntu. To make our Windows 7 clients correctly work with Samba, the upgrade was mandatory.


Does anyone know how to fix this issue?


Thanks,
Tyler


P.S.: Could a moderator of this board please either delete this thread and move the old one, or just delete the old thread. Many thanks :).

---

### Post by dino99 on 2009-10-05
hi,

have you tweak some scripts of your own ?

what give : gksudo su (if you are under gnome)
       
maybe read again manpage

---

### Post by Tyler_Durden on 2009-10-05
> **dino99 said:**
> hi,

have you tweak some scripts of your own ?

what give : gksudo su (if you are under gnome)
       
maybe read again manpage

1. No, there are no system scripts we have tweaked on our own.
2. We have neither gnome, nor kde installed. This machine is a pure server.
3. The manpage really does not help here :(.

Thanks anyway.

---

