---
title: "Reversal of middle-click and right-click on synaptics touchpads"
date: 2009-08-27
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by jmmL on 2009-08-27
Ever since I installed karmic, the way you generate a right-click and a middle-click have been reversed. Previously, a two-finger click on the touchpad was middle-click and a three-finger click a right-click. Now it is the opposite. I couldn't find any bugs on launchpad about it, and I haven't seen anyone else mention it in the forums for a few weeks.

Has this bug been fixed for others? Is it even a planned change? I prefered two-finger middle click because I use it much more often than right-click (opening and closing tabs in firefox).

---

### Post by jmmL on 2009-08-28
I've done some more investigating.

The launchpad page for synaptics ([https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics)) shows a "105_correct_multifinger_click.patch" being included in 1.1.2-1ubuntu1. This patch had this description 
> Swap the right/middle clicks        generated by multi-finger tapping.This patch was then reverted in 1.1.2-1ubuntu2 due to activity on [LP: #320585]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/+bug/320585"), released on 22Jul2009.
I take this to mean that the behaviour in jaunty, intrepid and before should now be default (i.e., 2 fingers for middle-, 3 for right-click). I currently have the reverse, even though my version of xserver-xorg-input-synaptics is 1.1.2-1ubuntu3. For me, the reversal of the patch has not worked.
Does anyone else experience this behaviour?

---

### Post by martijntje on 2009-08-28
I have it too. Basically I have to use synclient to fix it, but it only lasts for the session.

---

### Post by jmmL on 2009-09-01
martijntje, can you post the synclient line you use to revert the behaviour? 

It would be useful to know from anyone with a synaptics touchpad that doesn't experience the same behaviour as martijntje and I.

---

### Post by martijntje on 2009-09-01
```
synclient TapButton2=2
synclient TapButton3=3
```

---

### Post by jmmL on 2009-09-18
I still experience this behaviour with -1ubuntu5. I've filed a bug report: LP#[432814]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/432814")
Thanks for the synclient instructions martijntje.

---

### Post by Sashin on 2009-09-18
Doesn't this behaviour make more sense since you right click more than you middle click?

---

### Post by jmmL on 2009-09-18
> **Sashin said:**
> Doesn't this behaviour make more sense since you right click more than you middle click?

That's interesting, because I'm not sure what other people do. I know that I very rarely right click (only maybe to save a file in firefox). The majority of my time in ubuntu (and indeed any OS) is spent in a browser, and middle click is very useful for opening new tabs, as well as for triggering auto-scroll. You can also middle-click anywhere on a tab in the tab bar to close it, even if the cross button isn't there.

Question to the community: which do you use more?

---

### Post by miketrim on 2009-09-19
> **Sashin said:**
> Doesn't this behaviour make more sense since you right click more than you middle click?  Personally I tend to use middle-click more often than right-click (for opening links in a new tab in Firefox).  What is more annoying about this is that my laptop has only left and right buttons, so there is no way for me to generate a middle click except using the touchpad.

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2009-09-19
You should be able to generate a middle click by pushing L+R buttons simultaneously.

---

### Post by motang on 2009-09-30
> **jmmL said:**
> Ever since I installed karmic, the way you generate a right-click and a middle-click have been reversed. Previously, a two-finger click on the touchpad was middle-click and a three-finger click a right-click. Now it is the opposite. I couldn't find any bugs on launchpad about it, and I haven't seen anyone else mention it in the forums for a few weeks.

Has this bug been fixed for others? Is it even a planned change? I prefered two-finger middle click because I use it much more often than right-click (opening and closing tabs in firefox).

Pre-Karmic all my right click was at the bottom right corner and middle click was at the top right corner.

I had figure out how to do right click, but thanks for letting me know how do to middle click. 

P.S. even though they have reversed, it doesn't effect me as it's new to me. :)

---

### Post by heng on 2009-10-09
> **Sashin said:**
> Doesn't this behaviour make more sense since you right click more than you middle click?

No. I middle click to open tabs and to paste text. Given that most of the use of the right button on other, lesser, systems was to select copy and paste, middle click does this job better and quicker most of the time.

The other important point to realise is that touchpads tend to only have 2 buttons - left and right. So there is already a right button shortcut.

---

### Post by btechcs on 2009-10-17
Reversed, (after an update in jaunty), by adding below lines to ~/.xprofile

```

synclient TapButton2=2
synclient TapButton3=3

```

Thanks martijntje for this. :)

---

### Post by davidryderuk on 2009-10-23
Hi,
The above trick didn't work for me, since I did a fresh install and ~/.xprofile was missing. However I just realized that I could add the command as a startup application.

1. I opened System > Preferences > Startup Applications

2. I clicked on the Add button.

3. I then typed in an appropriate name and used the command "synclient TapButton2=2 ; synclient TapButton3=3".

My thanks as well for the fix martijntje.

---

### Post by Zorael on 2009-10-23
You can also use xinput instead of synclient, not sure if there's any gains to it. It's a bit more complicated to set up.

See [this post](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7643273&postcount=2) for an example.

---

