---
title: "9.10 - Importing Thunderbird and Firefox from non-standard location"
date: 2009-09-14
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by robhamm on 2009-09-14
I've not tried Karmic yet (running a Jaunty/XP dual boot and, being somewhat of a noob, am hesitant about running an alpha release), but have read that it can import Thunderbird data from a Windows partition. 

I've moved my profiles, mail, etc. to a separate partition so that XP and Jaunty can share them. Does anyone know if Karmic will detect and import the profiles when they're not in the default location? Or does it simply copy whatever is in the default Windows location?

It's not a big deal to do it by hand, of course. Mostly, I'm just curious.

(I've noticed some glitches when the XP and Linux releases of Thunderbird aren't synced up, and since I'm booting into XP less and less, I figure it only makes sense to get rid of the profile sharing.)

Thanks!

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2009-09-15
Maybe [[COLOR=Blue]this[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1138477") howto will be useful.

---

### Post by robhamm on 2009-09-15
> **Partyboi2 said:**
> Maybe [[COLOR=Blue]this[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1138477") howto will be useful.

Thanks, man, but I'm already running like that (Does that mean I'm not *quite *as much of a noob as I thought?). I plan on dumping that arrangement once I install Karmic, though. I sincerely apologize if I didn't make that clear in my initial post.

My question was an idle one, really--whether Karmic will *automatically *detect and pull the data from the non-standard location, since I'll no longer want or need to share my Mozilla at that point, or if I just need to move it by hand again. Not a problem if so--It'll take me all of two minutes. I'm just chomping at the bit waiting for Karmic stable and was idly curious. Probably should have just waited until I install to see for myself if it did. I really need to work on my aversion to delayed gratification.

---

