---
title: "9.10 - All files are opening in gedit."
date: 2009-10-07
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by cumanzor on 2009-10-07
Hi everyone, I'm currently using the 9.10 beta, not sure if this would be the right place to post.

Anyways, the Empathy client crashed on me today, and after saying it wasn't able to send error reports due to obsolete versions of some packages, I went to Synaptic Package Manager and did a Mark All Upgrades. After maybe some 30minutes, and around 300MB worth of updates, I had to reboot the system.

After this, I noticed that every single file is opening in Gedit, except folders and soft links, and for some reason .docx and pptx seem to work as well. Other than that, even desktop shortcuts are being recognized as text files!

Please take a look at the screenshot. Any ideas on how can I fix this?:confused:

pura vida

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-10-07
quoting  post I just replied to
> While i have 2 karmic installs that haven't been affected see here
( I'd say the best solution is in posts 23 -> 26

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1284510&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1284510&page=3)

there is a link to bug report earlier in thread if interested

---

### Post by cumanzor on 2009-10-07
> **mc4man said:**
> quoting  post I just replied to'...

thanks! I'll try this as soon as I get home tonight.

---

### Post by cumanzor on 2009-10-08
> **cumanzor said:**
> thanks! I'll try this as soon as I get home tonight.

Ok, I followed your link, and tried this

```
update-mime-database.real -V ~/.local/share/mime/
```

It absolutely worked! Thanks a lot. I also read the bug report and there are other workarounds for this, in case it doesn't work.

Again, thanks a lot! :)

(now I'm doing backups anyway since my hard drive is clicking and disaster is imminent :( )

---

### Post by emarkay on 2009-10-08
OP, please mark post as "Solved".  :)

---

