---
title: "9.10 Trackpad not working after upgrade to Karmic Beta"
date: 2009-10-02
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Chesh on 2009-10-02
I recently upgraded to the beta release of Karmic and everything works great except that my trackpad has stopped working.

I have a Thinkpad W500 with the ultranav setup (both the trackpad and the traditional IBM trackpoint) which is supposed to work with the default kernel mouse drivers. The trackpoint and trackpoint buttons work, but not the touchpad. 

During the upgrade I replaced my xorg config which might have caused the issue; here it is in its current state:

```

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
	Option 		"SHMConfig" "true"
EndSection


```

I've looked at other solutions from people who have had these issues in the past but thought it better to post a new one since this is different hardware on a different kernel and a new OS. Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by linux6994 on 2009-10-02
Try this:

sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-input-synaptics

---

### Post by Chesh on 2009-10-03
Thanks for the reply, that package is already installed though. :(

---

### Post by twisted_steel on 2009-10-03
Did you check the Mouse Preferences?  The defaults recently changed to disable the trackpad.  Open up System->Preferences->Mouse and check the Touchpad tab.  That's how I had to re-enable the trackpad on my Thinkpad T42.

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2009-10-03
Yes, tap-to-click is disabled by default, which I assume made you think that the proper touchpad drivers weren't functioning.

You may want to see the following discussions:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1267706](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1267706)
[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2009-September/029057.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2009-September/029057.html)

Note: The web archive seems to have [lost]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2009-September/029223.html") the first post, so I linked to the first reply. Also see the [thread index]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2009-September/thread.html").

---

### Post by Chesh on 2009-10-04
Thanks for the replys, it was a two part issue actually, when I updated to Karmic for whatever reason even though the latest kernel was installed, GRUB didn't get updated so I was loading an older kernel at startup not paying attention to the screen, once I was using the most recent kernel as well as re-enabling the tapping (thanks psyke83), everything is working great. Cheers!

---

### Post by megaman2000 on 2009-10-11
How do you do that!? Because I have the same problem.

When I updated to 9.10 BETA I lost both trackpad support and the ability to use compiz fusion :(

---

