---
title: "9.10 beta cpu frq help"
date: 2009-10-17
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by VincentA on 2009-10-17
I am running an ASUS 1005HA with Ubuntu 9.10 beta. Is there any way for me to permanently set both cores to 1 Ghz and make them stay at that frequency? I would like to be able to set this at boot time if possible.

---

### Post by gmc on 2009-10-17
Easy way:

edit /etc/rc.local and add the following lines:

echo powersave > /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_governor
echo powersave > /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu1/cpufreq/scaling_governor

or the "official way"..

install sysfsutils (aptitide install sysfsutils), edit /etc/sysfs.conf and add the following lines:

devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_governor = powersave
devices/system/cpu/cpu1/cpufreq/scaling_governor = powersave

Voila! Reboot and you're done.

G

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-10-17
I reckon you can do it this way.

```
gksu gedit /etc/init.d/ondemand
```

Change the line 

27   echo -n ondemand > $CPUFREQ

Change ondemand to powersave. Save the file then reboot. You can check whats going on by adding the cpu freq scaling applet to a panel.

---

### Post by VincentA on 2009-10-17
thank you both for the replies. I will try them out today

---

### Post by gmc on 2009-10-17
> **philinux said:**
> I reckon you can do it this way.

```
gksu gedit /etc/init.d/ondemand
```Change the line 

27   echo -n ondemand > $CPUFREQ

Change ondemand to powersave. Save the file then reboot. You can check whats going on by adding the cpu freq scaling applet to a panel.

This will work, until there's an upgrade to the init.d scripts and it over writes your modifications. Manually editing scripts in init.d is never recommended.

G

---

### Post by cornflake000 on 2009-10-18
OK... I'm slightly perplexed...

I have Ubu Studio64 Karmic rt in one partition and Karmic 64 generic in another.  They are totally separate with no shared home or other shared partitions although they both boot up from the same grub2.  The generic I have set to "ondemand" in rc.local as follows:

echo ondemand > /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_governor
echo ondemand > /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu1/cpufreq/scaling_governor

The rt kernel with Ubu Studio is set to "performance" in the same way for obvious reasons.  After logging in to generic for about 3-4 minutes, it changes to performance.  After logging in to the rt for a few minutes, it changes to ondemand.

Any ideas?  I am beginning to think this is why my rt keeps crashing or maybe I'm in the twilight zone.  Bazaar!

---

### Post by VincentA on 2009-10-18
I got mine working by deleting  every profile except for powersave and I set powersave to %59 which is  1Ghz for both cpu's

---

