---
title: "9.10 install--no gui, didn't ask for user or pword"
date: 2009-10-02
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by ziret on 2009-10-02
I just installed 9.10. I downloaded the .iso from the authorized torrent. When I went to install, there was no initial "just look at it on this CD", only a DOS-style set of menus. That was OK. Installed from that, however at no point did it ask me for a user name or a password. When it rebooted and fired up, it asked for a user name and password, which I don't have and can't provide. Is there some default I can use? I do not want to install it again. I really appreciate any help.

I just looked at the download and it turns out I downloaded the "alternate" install CD. Big mistake, but is there a way to rescue it?

-Teri

---

### Post by SoftwareExplorer on 2009-10-03
When it boots and says something about pressing esc, press esc. It should list at least two startup options. Chose a recover mode one and boot it. When it asks, get a root prompt. Once you get that, type the command ```
ls /home
```. It should list all the users on the system except root. Find the username that is yours and remember it for the next step.
Do ```
passwd <usernameyou'rremembering>
```
Then put in the password you would like.
Then do ```
init 6
``` to restart and see if you can log in then.

---

### Post by ziret on 2009-10-03
Explorer--thanks for the instructions. I couldn't wait any longer, so downloaded the graphic installer and did it again. Everything's running well now.

---

### Post by SoftwareExplorer on 2009-10-03
> **ziret said:**
> Explorer--thanks for the instructions. I couldn't wait any longer, so downloaded the graphic installer and did it again. Everything's running well now.

OK, glad you got it working. :) You can mark this thread as solved under the thread tool menu->Mark as Solved.

---

