---
title: "How to edit grub2? Where is menu.lst"
date: 2009-08-11
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by keypox on 2009-08-11
Where is the grub options? I could only find a config file saying DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE. And he old menu.lst is not in the old location? 

After updating yesterday i no longer have the option to boot windows and it just goest straight to ubuntu, no time out

I already tried sudo update-grub

---

### Post by wayne_cat on 2009-08-11
use the search

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1237683](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1237683)

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-08-11
I started a theming grub2 thread a couple of months ago--as wayne_cat said--please search before just posting a new thread--it has been answered several times.

And it is now sudo update-grub2

---

### Post by keypox on 2009-08-12
Well conclusiion is grub 2 sucks and you have to use a gui which is nice but very inconvenent some times. Seems you have to edit multiple files to do the same thing that was done in one file.

---

### Post by Martje_001 on 2009-08-12
Grub2 does not "suck". It's, technically speaking, much more advanced than legacy Grub.

It's just that you're familiar with legacy grub and do not want to learn something new. You're exactly the same as people who switch from Windows to Linux and complain "it does not work the way Windows does".

---

### Post by waspbr on 2009-08-12
funny, I have been editing the grub.cfg the same way I edited the menu.lst file, mostly because of the --no-floppy bug that shows up every now and then. 

as long as you make a back up of it, edit the /boot/grub/grub.cfg file

---

