---
title: "X.Org 7.5 and X Server 1.7 make it in?"
date: 2009-09-11
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by andrewabc on 2009-09-11
They have been delayed a long time, and I think most distros weren't planning on using them for next release since they had no idea when released.

xorg 7.5 and xserver 1.7 are scheduled to be out at end of September. If true, would they be making it in to karmic 9.10?
Or has ubuntu firmly said they are not including it no matter when it is released (even now that a release date has been set).

[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NzUyNw](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NzUyNw)

---

### Post by fifth on 2009-09-11
I believe there is now a freeze on karmic packages. So bug fixes only from now on unless there is very good reason for an exception.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KarmicReleaseSchedule?action=show&redirect=ReleaseSchedule](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KarmicReleaseSchedule?action=show&redirect=ReleaseSchedule)

---

### Post by ffi on 2009-09-11
I think I can live without Multipointer X, the main new feature of 1.7....I want some X performance first....

---

### Post by inportb on 2009-09-11
Don't forget that each time the release was delayed, the release date was "set" too.

---

### Post by nhasian on 2009-09-11
isnt this what we were waiting for to fix the Remote Desktop problem we had with the screen not refreshing?

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/353126](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/353126)

---

### Post by 23meg on 2009-09-11
> **andrewabc said:**
> 
xorg 7.5 and xserver 1.7 are scheduled to be out at end of September. If true, would they be making it in to karmic 9.10?
Or has ubuntu firmly said they are not including it no matter when it is released (even now that a release date has been set).

The latter. From the [Karmic Xorg Plans blueprint]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Roadmap/Karmic"):

> Karmic Target Versions for Release
----------------------------------
   kernel:              2.6.31
   libdrm:              2.6.12
   mesa:                7.6
   x-server:            1.7   (Brings libxi 2.0, inputproto 2.0, evdev 2.3)
   xorg:                7.5

   (We are carrying rc versions of the above currently, but anticipate
    these versions will be released in time for Karmic.)

   UPDATE - As of Alpha-4, some components were unavailable.  We are now targeting the following:
   kernel:              2.6.31
   libdrm:              2.6.12
   mesa:                7.6
   x-server:            1.6.3
   xorg:                7.4

---

### Post by 23meg on 2009-09-11
> **inportb said:**
> Don't forget that each time the release was delayed, the release date was "set" too.

If you mean the Ubuntu release, it has only been delayed once (Dapper).

---

### Post by aamukahvi on 2009-09-11
> **23meg said:**
> If you mean the Ubuntu release, it has only been delayed once (Dapper).
Meaning Xorg, probably, as it's always late.

---

### Post by 23meg on 2009-09-11
> **aamukahvi said:**
> Meaning Xorg, probably, as it's always late.

Ah, right.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2009-09-11
EDIT: ahh, missed the "update" part that says 7.5 won't be included cause they don't know when it will be released.

xserver 1.6.4 is in release candidate stage, so hopefully that will make it in.

EDIT:
But on very bottom of your wiki link, there is conversation that says they will put in newer version if it appears in time (I presume beta). Although linked article is from May, so that probably means update at top is more accurate.

---

### Post by caryb on 2009-09-12
Not wanting to be egotistical but some of these package maintainers should look closely at our release schedule & try to sync with us! I believe we would be the largest distro (by sheer numbers) & working to our release dates would be advantageous to them.


2c Cary

---

### Post by Amaranth on 2009-09-12
Xorg 7.5 actually won't include MPX, it was delayed again to get a release out.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2009-09-22
[http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/xorg/2009-September/047328.html](http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/xorg/2009-September/047328.html)
Second release Candidate out, with third supposed to come out next week.

If final released by karmic beta, would it make it in? Or is is 100% not making it in to karmic?

Hmm, according to ubuntu changelog in karmic, xorg hasn't been updated [since July 7](http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/changelogs/pool/main/x/xorg/xorg_7.4+3ubuntu5/changelog). Also, debian version is out of date (Aug 13). So I guess it won't be making it in :(

---

### Post by Amaranth on 2009-09-22
100% not going to happen. There is nothing worth getting in it anyway.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2009-09-22
> **Amaranth said:**
> 100% not going to happen. There is nothing worth getting in it anyway.

Ok, thanks for simple response.

---

### Post by coolen on 2009-10-02
According to Phoronix, Xorg 7.5 (just released) does include MPX.

---

