---
title: "9.10 update and subsequent boot error"
date: 2009-08-22
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by su-37 on 2009-08-22
Okay, I am using the latest (ibelieve) version of 9.10. I had clicked update and it says something along the lines of partial distribution upgrade. I go along with it. Once it is completed i shut down. I then turn the computer back on and it says something about the kernel then knit: trying to resume from ... and then it says no resume image. It then comes up with James-laptop login. From there ilog in but it still stays on the text. 
Does anyone have any ideas of how to fix this? or how i can undo it? I have tried hitting esc when the grub countdown appears but none of the options there work. Any suggustings or advice is much appreciated. 
Go ubuntu.:(

---

### Post by tgeer43 on 2009-08-22
This doesn't address the problem directly but does:
```
startx
or
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```give you a desktop?

tgeer

---

### Post by zkriesse on 2009-08-22
When you did that "update" did you "update" to the new kernel?

---

### Post by su-37 on 2009-08-23
> **tgeer43 said:**
> This doesn't address the problem directly but does:
```
startx
or
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```give you a desktop?

tgeer
okay i did the first one and it said no screens found.  Please consult the x.org foundation... and then it said giving up and then no such file and so on. the second option flashed a bit and then said starting gnome display manager and that its. no desktop 

As for the update it said not all the updates could be installed did i want to do a partial upgrade if that helps. if you want me to say it all just say so. Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by su-37 on 2009-08-24
If all else fails is there a way to recover my documents from the laptop? As when i tried the live cd for 7.10 it didnt see my account.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-08-24
try this:

```
sudo dpkg --configure -a
```

Your files are safe, but lets try to fix your X first before doing a reinstall.

Do check what version of ubuntu you're running, 9.10 is in alpha and shouldnt be used for anything but testing and giving yourself headaches :)

edit: your 7.10 cd can't read Ext4, the file system you are probably using. But a live cd with 9.04 (or 9.10) should be able to mount your drive and recover files if all else fails

---

### Post by su-37 on 2009-08-26
Okay i have managed to solve the problem. I installed 9.04 on a free area of the hard drive. Then i recovered the documents. I then reinstalled 9.04 over the entire hard drvie. My computer is now running 9.04 no errors...yet! Thanks for all the help.

---

