---
title: "9.10 Beta"
date: 2009-10-06
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by a2z on 2009-10-06
a couple problems I'm experiencing with this is probably still in development. I could be wrong. 


1) In Applications>Other>(3 items listed) Compiz, Metacity, and Window
   Manager. All appear to be shaded. And Compiz doesn't appear in System>
   Preferences. It looks like I am missing the front end?
2) I have deleted and retrieved a new instal of Adobe flash player via 
   synaptic package manager. 
   Youtube videos play, but none of the player functions work. ie:          
   play/stop button, full screen, & volume.

Perhaps someone here can share one or a two remedies I can try to resolve these problems.

Thanks to everyone who participate! 

asus p5n-d
intel duo quad core (amd) x86 64
nvidia 8500GT

---

### Post by MadAGu on 2009-10-07
Your second problem appears to me also... what is happening?????:confused:

---

### Post by Nickedynick on 2009-10-07
You need to install the 64 bit plugin for Flash to work properly on x64.

I got around this by adding the below PPAs to /etc/apt/sources.list (or via Software Sources):

```
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/dinxter/test/ubuntu karmic main 
deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/dinxter/test/ubuntu karmic main
```

Then:

```
sudo apt-get install flashplugin64-installer
```

It's a workaround, but at least it'll function until a fix is implemented.

---

### Post by Amaranth on 2009-10-07
[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/flashplugin-nonfree/+bug/410407](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/flashplugin-nonfree/+bug/410407)

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2009-10-07
> **Nickedynick said:**
> You need to install the 64 bit plugin for Flash to work properly on x64.

I got around this by adding the below PPAs to /etc/apt/sources.list (or via Software Sources):

```
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/dinxter/test/ubuntu karmic main 
deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/dinxter/test/ubuntu karmic main
```Then:

```
sudo apt-get install flashplugin64-installer
```It's a workaround, but at least it'll function until a fix is implemented.

This fixed it fine for me, took only a few seconds.

.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-10-07
> And Compiz doesn't appear in System>
Preferences. It looks like I am missing the front end?

Install the compiz-config-settings-manager

It remains quite curious that cssm is not supported or installed by default, at least when one would choose "extra" effects from the appearances menu.

Some of the default choices for the settings could be questioned and may be of benefit for people to change ( and gconf-editor is not a suitable place for most to make such changes

---

### Post by a2z on 2009-10-07
Thanks all for your insight. 
Right after my post, I had an error message libgail-common was broken. I have since completely crashed 9.10 beta. I then did a clean intrepid install followed by 9.04 upgrade via update manager.
I think it was too early for me to deal with this beta. Since I am not quite knowledable to help with bug tracking. I tried..

---

