---
title: "9.10 and laptops"
date: 2009-09-26
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by SpinningAround on 2009-09-26
Is Ubuntu 9.10 suppose to run on laptops since so far as I can tell wont Ubuntu Karmic Koala work with battery. With my Asus X51R does alpha 6 (or is't beta now) does it work fine while I av AC plugged in but if I try to remove it or start ubuntu with battery only will the boot stop about the time it reaches gdm/gnome/gui . Someone else experience similar problem?

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-09-26
Have Karmic running on a laptop since Alpha 2.. I do have issues with libc6 from Alpha 5 and up, but pinning libc6 resolves that issue for me. I don't use gdm btw, but kdm.

---

### Post by SpinningAround on 2009-09-26
> **slakkie said:**
> Have Karmic running on a laptop since Alpha 2.. I do have issues with libc6 from Alpha 5 and up, but pinning libc6 resolves that issue for me. I don't use gdm btw, but kdm.It work fine with AC but with battery wont it work at all, it might have something with gdm to do, or I wonder if ubuntu is to hard on power saving. A few times when I have used battery have it almost been like the software is lagging. Can I make a bug report on this and if that is the case what information is needed?

---

### Post by k3lt01 on 2009-09-26
Maybe your battery has problems? I know I have similar issues with mine (not with Karmic) if I cant get my AC power pack working properly.

---

### Post by dadedo123 on 2009-09-26
I'm Spinning Around, Move outta my way!

---

### Post by tjeremiah on 2009-09-26
have been running on my vaio (see sig) since Alpha 1. Really no problems. My Laptop Battery is POOR, 4 minutes poor. Im sure its the battery because same happens in Vista. I need a new battery :(

---

### Post by novafluxx on 2009-09-26
No issues on my Inspiron 1318 either.

---

### Post by raqball on 2009-09-26
Running fine on my Gateway... Only issue was with the dreaded ath9k... Using wicd instead of network manager solved the issue though...

---

### Post by Compintuit on 2009-09-26
> **tjeremiah said:**
> have been running on my vaio (see sig) since Alpha 1. Really no problems. My Laptop Battery is POOR, 4 minutes poor. Im sure its the battery because same happens in Vista. I need a new battery :(

Yes! I thought I was the only one! But I also have another problem: The DC-in jack is broken. About once a month, it'll lose contact, and It will crash about 20 times/day.

Other than that, it works fine :)

---

### Post by buzzmandt on 2009-09-26
acer laptop, no problems here.  Karmic runs really good on mine.

---

### Post by Sophont on 2009-09-26
I've got Karmic on 2 laptops and it's doing fine. Battery works well too - no problems there at all.

---

### Post by solitaire on 2009-09-26
I've got a HP 550 and it's fine on battery with Alpha-6...

---

### Post by dentaku65 on 2009-09-27
> **SpinningAround said:**
> Is Ubuntu 9.10 suppose to run on laptops since so far as I can tell wont Ubuntu Karmic Koala work with battery. With my Asus X51R does alpha 6 (or is't beta now) does it work fine while I av AC plugged in but if I try to remove it or start ubuntu with battery only will the boot stop about the time it reaches gdm/gnome/gui . Someone else experience similar problem?

I did.
I got an hard kernel error reported here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/426375](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/426375)
both kernels 2.6.31-10-generic and 2.6.31-11-generic

I found this workaround to fix it:
```
sudo apt-get remove gnome-power-manager
```
This command will remove ubuntu-desktop too, so you must reinstall periodically in order to keep packages changes tracked by ubuntu-desktop

---

### Post by SpinningAround on 2009-09-27
Thanks for all the answers, I will see if removing gnome-power-manager work, still find it a little wired that a computer that worked fine with 9.04 wont work at all in 9.10, guess I also will install windows to see if I get the same problem there.

---

### Post by nystire on 2009-09-27
I'm running a default install of Ubuntu on both a Toshiba P105-S9337 and an old HP with no problems at all. Also, vanilla Kubuntu on a Toshiba Tecra A8 and the same old HP with zero problems.

---

### Post by FrancoNero on 2009-09-27
running fine here on a T61. even though it will roast my laps just as 9.04 did... why is the fan blasting while doing nothing? why is Ubuntu heating up my machine like it's time for marshmellows?

---

### Post by setherd on 2009-09-27
thinkpad T43 with ati x300, runs great!!!

---

### Post by Seventh Reign on 2009-09-27
It worked great on my Acer Aspire One... but then I discovered Kuki Linux & I fell in love.

If you have an AAO I highly recommend Kuki.  Everything works.  Both Slot readers, Wireless, The Wifi Switch/Light, and 2 1/2 hour battery life with the 3 cell. Just about 99 megs of Ram used at Idle,

---

### Post by Arla on 2009-09-27
Lenovo Y450 and it works great, Acer 8204 works, just the battery life is about 3 minutes, so I have to be quick when moving (but that's the same in windows so not a Ubuntu issue)

---

### Post by W2IBC on 2009-09-27
9.10 working fine w/ AC or Batt with my HP pravilion ze5300.

only 2 issues i have noticed is firefox w/ flashplayer still locks up. and the dang hard drive checker in 9.10 trys to tell me the hdd disk failure imminent (when all checks i toss at the hdd pass w/ flying colors.)(disk is a toshiba)

---

### Post by SeePU on 2009-09-27
> **setherd said:**
> thinkpad T43 with ati x300, runs great!!!
Thinkpad T41 with ATI Radeon 9000, it doesn't!  One has to disable Compiz!

Do you disable yours?  If one doesn't, the entire laptop locks up.  Then, you're done.

---

### Post by SpinningAround on 2009-09-27
Using Windows 7 Professional atm and it's working fine while on battery, so I guess it has something to do with the settings that ubuntu 9.10 use in battery mode. Is there something that have been changed in this area with this version or can it be that wired that ubuntu 9.10 (32bit) draw more resources then windows 7 professional?

Can note that when I did use 9.04 did it work fine in battery mode except if I had compiz activated, can the problem be that the system gets "weaker" when it run on battery?

---

### Post by anthony_barker on 2009-10-06
> **SeePU said:**
> Thinkpad T41 with ATI Radeon 9000, it doesn't!  One has to disable Compiz!

Do you disable yours?  If one doesn't, the entire laptop locks up.  Then, you're done.

Same issue on my Thinkpad T42 with Radeon Mobility 7500 M7 LW

Corrupted Grub2 twice!

---

### Post by tophatandy on 2009-10-06
running an asus eee 1005ha, and everything is working fine here (besides the fact that i don't have injection working on my wireless card. but thats not up to the dev team to fix).

---

### Post by bug11 on 2009-10-06
My acer 5930G have no problem with battery. Everything is working except USB harddrives. and it is really annoying.

---

