---
title: "Karmic and Me..."
date: 2009-07-12
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by iaskedalice09 on 2009-07-12
Hello all,

Everytime I update my Jaunty system to Karmic it crashes. I am stupidly not deterred by this and contend that if I just try once more, HaShem and the developers of Karmic will give me a working product. But alas, this is faulty logic.

My bet is that the problem is related to the newer kernel. On my last Jaunty install, I tried updating to the newer kernel due to a strange fetish for the number "30," and a compulsive need to have the latest version. But it crashed again. Are there any ways to bypass this upgrade which breaks my system?

System info:
Dell Inspiron 1525N laptop, made for Ubuntu GNU/Linux

The last time it crashed, I posted about a sound issue in Jaunty. I then updated the kernel and kaboom.

Questions:
1. How can I downgrade the kernel if G-d forbid I do get the kernel error?

2. Seriously, is Karmic worth it? I personally like the name, the kernel, and much much more. But I can only sit and admire its beauty.

3. Am I the only one whose computer has a severe allergy to this new kernel?

---

### Post by robert.rankin.jr on 2009-07-12
You should still have the old kernel installed. In grub, try using the old kernel and see if it still works.

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2009-07-12
Can you explain how it crashes? Does it give you errors, drop you to a shell?

---

### Post by iaskedalice09 on 2009-07-12
Usually yes it does give me a shell. Although I'm running Jaunty now, and apprehensive to update to Karmic until I get a working Jaunty disc (I wore mine out fast).

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2009-07-12
Are you using nvidia drivers?

---

### Post by iaskedalice09 on 2009-07-12
Unfortunately yes. I tried to switch to the free neaveau or however you spell it that's GPL licenced but no success there.

---

### Post by taavikko on 2009-07-12
Does the crash happen if upgrading via recovery mode?

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2009-07-12
Here,s what to do.

When you are dropped to the shell, log-in, then do:
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```Look for the section that looks like this:
```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "nvidia"
Option NoLogo"  "true"
endSection
```now change:
```
Driver "nvidia" to Driver "nv"
```now do:
```
gdm start
```That worked for me when I was having problems.

Now, disable the nvidia driver through hardware driver, it may already be disabled though, then,  go to synaptic and install 2.6.30-2 kernel reboot, and activate the nvidia driver. This should get you going.

the nvidia driver has issues with kernel 2.6.30-1

---

### Post by iaskedalice09 on 2009-07-12
I will try this when I get the CD. Thanks so much for the help! I really do appreciate it.

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2009-07-12
> **iaskedalice09 said:**
> I will try this when I get the CD. Thanks so much for the help! I really do appreciate it.

I f you install with the cd there should be no need for those instructions except to install the lates kernel then the nvidia driver.

---

### Post by iaskedalice09 on 2009-07-13
Here is my xorg.conf file I had problems with.

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

As you can see there's no driver information. What should I do? I am still in Jaunty.

---

### Post by kaitwospirit on 2009-07-13
Hey, I had a problem with this and I have your same laptop, the 1525N. I can verify that a clean CD installation will remove all problems you're having right now. I thought it was just me, but if it's both of us with the same laptop having similar symptoms, that sounds more like a major bug.

What happened to me is that I could boot into grub but attempting to go to either of the two kernels listed resulted in errors. Does this sound like what you're experiencing right now?

---

### Post by iaskedalice09 on 2009-07-13
Hi,

I am using Jaunty right now until I can get the CDs working. I think I'll have to burn it on another computer as my burner conks out when it writes the md5sum file. From memory, it would boot into grub then show me the list of kernels. None of them loaded.

---

### Post by kaitwospirit on 2009-07-13
Yeah, that sounds exactly like what happened to me. What I did notice was that the list of kernels was outdated. It didn't occur to me at the time but it's possible that you could just run update-grub and it would magically fix itself. I can't promise that will work because I never tried it but it seems like it might.

---

### Post by iaskedalice09 on 2009-07-14
I will try burning a Karmic CD when I get the chance.

---

