---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 - What will happen to my Pidgin?"
date: 2009-10-25
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by sevenflo on 2009-10-25
I'm currently running Jaunty. This will be my first distribution upgrade. One of the features of 9.10 is that Empathy will be installed by default.

After upgrading, will my Pidgin and settings be gone and replaced with a blank Empathy? 
Or will everything be migrated to empathy? Will I have both? Or....?

Thanks

---

### Post by albandy on 2009-10-25
if the file /home/youruser/.purple/accounts.xml exists you can recover your pidgin accounts by simply installing it again:

sudo apt-get install pidgin

---

### Post by kdilks on 2009-10-25
> **sevenflo said:**
> I'm currently running Jaunty. This will be my first distribution upgrade. One of the features of 9.10 is that Empathy will be installed by default.

After upgrading, will my Pidgin and settings be gone and replaced with a blank Empathy? 
Or will everything be migrated to empathy? Will I have both? Or....?

Thanks

You won't even notice that anything has changed. If you're just doing a distribution upgrade, the only change should be that Empathy will be installed as an option. Everything from Pidgin should continue to work as it has before. I upgraded two of my computers to the beta and only found out that something had changed when I read about it online.

If you were doing an installation from scratch, however, then only Empathy would be installed and you would have to manually install Pidgin if you wanted to use it.

---

