---
title: "2.6.31 and OpenVPN"
date: 2009-07-03
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by lithorus on 2009-07-03
Hi,

Ever since the upgrade to 2.6.31-rc1 kernel I have been having trouble getting my OpenVPN working. I suspect the update has affected the 'tun' kernel module. But before I opened a bug report, I wanted to make sure this was the cause. 

Are there anyone out there that have upgraded to 2.6.31 and using OpenVPN?

The problem is dns lookup's through the VPN connection. For instance :

"nslookup internal-companyserver.local - 10.0.0.1" doesn't work

however "ping 10.0.0.1" and  "ping ip-of-internal-companyserver" works.

---

### Post by omgbots on 2009-07-03
I'm having the same issue that you are.  Although the problem is more than just DNS lookups, I'm not sure exactly what it is.  The OpenVPN connection connects appropriately and gets the proper routes for me, and I can ping machines on the other side as well (so at least ICMP is working)... but TCP and UDP seem to not work.  In fact, if I try to ssh to a remote IP (skip the DNS step) it will either hang or even worse totally lock up my machine.

---

### Post by lithorus on 2009-07-03
> **omgbots said:**
> I'm having the same issue that you are.  Although the problem is more than just DNS lookups, I'm not sure exactly what it is.  The OpenVPN connection connects appropriately and gets the proper routes for me, and I can ping machines on the other side as well (so at least ICMP is working)... but TCP and UDP seem to not work.  In fact, if I try to ssh to a remote IP (skip the DNS step) it will either hang or even worse totally lock up my machine.

Excactly that I get aswell. Will file a bug report later today.

---

### Post by Joe_Bishop on 2009-07-03
Hm, works OK yesterday in point to point configuration.

---

### Post by Joe_Bishop on 2009-07-03
But yeah, it can be a key for frequent whole system hang ups which I got yesterday.

---

### Post by NoXXiOuS on 2009-07-03
This is probably related to the other VPN's as well. I get a total lockup with IBM Lotus Mobility Client.
****

---

### Post by dinxter on 2009-07-03
anyone getting the problem

 $nm-applet 

(nm-applet:5746): GVFS-RemoteVolumeMonitor-WARNING **: cannot open directory /usr/share/gvfs/remote-volume-monitors: Error opening directory '/usr/share/gvfs/remote-volume-monitors': No such file or directory
** (nm-applet:5746): DEBUG: applet_common_device_state_changed

** (nm-applet:5746): WARNING **: <WARN>  activate_vpn_cb(): VPN Connection activation failed: (org.freedesktop.NetworkManager.ServiceStartFailed) Failed to execute child process "/usr/lib/network-manager-openvpn/nm-openvpn-service" (No such file or directory)

with the latest packages 

network-manager/karmic uptodate 0.7.1-0ubuntu1
network-manager-openvpn/karmic uptodate 0.7.1-0ubuntu1
network-manager-pptp/karmic uptodate 0.7.1-0ubuntu1

its right though, "/usr/lib/network-manager-openvpn/nm-openvpn-service" doesnt exist and isnt in the package network-manager-openvpn since this update

[EDIT] added bug, network-manager-openvpn service should surely be somewhere even if not there!
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/395169](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/395169)

---

### Post by NoXXiOuS on 2009-07-03
Googling around I found this one: [http://lkml.org/lkml/2009/6/25/435](http://lkml.org/lkml/2009/6/25/435). Now trying to build the kernel with the patches. Let's see how it goes.
****

---

### Post by lithorus on 2009-07-03
> **NoXXiOuS said:**
> This is probably related to the other VPN's as well. I get a total lockup with IBM Lotus Mobility Client.

Is that also using tun?

My guess is that it has something to do with the tun interface which is created to tunnel things through.

hehe, the description from that report sounds excactly like this issue :)

---

### Post by lithorus on 2009-07-05
I can confirm that the bug ir resolved in 2.6.31-rc2. Although due to the bug dinxter mentioned I have to downgrade network-manager-openvpn to get it working.

---

### Post by NoXXiOuS on 2009-07-06
It does have to do with tun. I have build the kernel with the patch I mentioned before. Now it is working.
****

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2009-07-06
Hm, maybe that's why vpnc isn't working for me. Will compile...

---

### Post by pferraro on 2009-07-06
> **MacUntu said:**
> Hm, maybe that's why vpnc isn't working for me. Will compile...

FYI, vpnc is working again with the new (rc2) kernel, built packages are already in the upload queue:
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/2.6.31-2.15/+build/1106964](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/2.6.31-2.15/+build/1106964)
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/2.6.31-2.15/+build/1106962](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/2.6.31-2.15/+build/1106962)

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2009-07-06
Yeah, just finished compiling the kernel. :P

Vpnc works fine now (except network-manager-vpnc also seems to be borked).

---

### Post by lithorus on 2009-07-07
> **MacUntu said:**
> Yeah, just finished compiling the kernel. :P

Vpnc works fine now (except network-manager-vpnc also seems to be borked).
You can downgrade to the rc4 package of network-manager-vpnc. A fix for the openvpn package was commited, but still needs to fix the vpnc and pptp packages.

---

### Post by pferraro on 2009-07-07
> **lithorus said:**
> You can downgrade to the rc4 package of network-manager-vpnc. A fix for the openvpn package was commited, but still needs to fix the vpnc and pptp packages.

Updates for these packages are already in the accepted queue.

---

