---
title: "9.10 slow + no sound + no video"
date: 2009-10-24
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by clear_runway on 2009-10-24
I installed the 9.10 beta a few hours ago, and it doesnt work worth crud. 9.04 worked great, but karmic might as well be a brick. first of all it's slower than vista (my other boot, which I am on right now because karmic is nigh-unusable) so slow that the cursor keeps skipping around.

also, there is no sound whatsoever. i tried the stuff in the sound troubleshooting guide and no dice.

thirdly there is no video, or to be more precise, whenever I try to play a movie file gnome crashes back to the login screen

I hope these bugs will be fixed by the 29th. In the meantime I think I will be using vista.

setup: Toshiba Satellite E105, intel core 2 duo, 4G ram. everything else seems to be part of the motherboard.

---

### Post by Aeric on 2009-10-24
Are you using VMWare on Windows Vista or running on Live CD?
If you have installed it, you mean with sufficient space for Swap Partition and install all updates from Synaptic Package Manager? Have you installed Gnome Device Manager or Hardinfo to check your hardware?
You can also do a test by going to Sytem > Administration > System Testing.

I don't believe it(Ubuntu 9.10) is slow since I see you are the only one saying so. This is just my opinion, I am also a new Ubuntu user switching from Windows.

---

### Post by clear_runway on 2009-10-24
sorry to sound like that. I actually really like ubuntu, I just hope I v=can get it to work properl on my system. jaunty worked like a dream. I'll definately run those tests

---

### Post by kiddo on 2009-10-24
For the folks in the forums to be help you, you will want to specify exactly what is your graphics card/chipset, among other things. You may get a list of that with the "lspci -v" command in a terminal (there may be other ways, but that's the usual one as far as I know).

---

### Post by clear_runway on 2009-10-24
as for system testing: I dont have a bluetooth/usb speaker, none of the audio tests worked. video testing, once I got to the "colored bars" part, trew me back to the login screen like other video does

---

### Post by kiddo on 2009-10-24
Edited my post above, since sound just came back with today's updates to the dbus packages :)

Anyway, make sure to apply all updates (there are constant bug fixes coming down the pipe these days) and to specify your hardware (the CPU and ram are obviously not bottlenecks here).

Frankly, it sometimes baffles me that Ubuntu still doesn't have a nice, simple GUI for listing your hardware configuration.

---

### Post by clear_runway on 2009-10-24
frankly I think the problem goes deeper then my output drivers. I mean, what could muck up a Linux system so much that *Vista* runs better?

and I didnt get an update.

this is all very wierd. jaunty ran like an olympic sprinter with a caffeine drip, even with full effects

---

### Post by bobbob1016 on 2009-10-24
You did install your video drivers, right?  If you didn't, disable "Visual Effects" in Appearances (I forgot where it is exactly since I use KDE).  Your video issue is most likely due to "Visual Effects" being turned on.  What sounds are you trying, just mp3's?

---

### Post by kiddo on 2009-10-24
> frankly I think the problem goes deeper then my output drivers. I mean, what could muck up a Linux system so much that Vista runs better?

Precisely ***that***; drivers. Usually. You still haven't told us what graphics card you are running on, and what drivers you are using; this could potentially make a world of difference. We need to rule out this possibility first.

Other than that, what could come to my mind is a problem with hard drive I/O or some kernel scheduler weirdness, but I'd keep those possibilities for later.

Regarding updates: make sure to go to the update manager and "refresh", otherwise I think it only checks once in a while. Also, note that if you are not using the "main server" as your software update source (and are using, for example, your country's specific mirror), it may be delayed and be less "fresh" than the main server (ie: updates are available only hours or days later).

---

### Post by clear_runway on 2009-10-24
nvm not getting an update, the manager was on the fritz. I got it now. just installed, no change. how do I check my drivers? And why would the drivers change? the drivers I used in jaunty worked fine.

and visual effects are turned all the way down. as for the sound I'm trying, absolutely nothing works. playinf from a cd, mp3's, sfx, whatever. nothing.

Is it possible to revert back to 9.04 without losing anything?

---

### Post by Aeric on 2009-10-24
I have some ideas to troubleshoot the problem.
1. Try booting in safe mode kernel
2. Try other desktop environment session during login (Gnome, KDE, Xfce, failsafe Gnome, etc.)
3. View System Log by clicking on Applications > Systems Tools > KSystemLog (available in Jaunty, not sure in Karmic)
4. More advanced, click on System > Administration > Log File Viewer and post/attach your error message
5. Report the bug in Launchpad. For details, check [http://www.ubuntu.com/community/ReportProblem](http://www.ubuntu.com/community/ReportProblem)

Let's see if it still crash.

---

### Post by Aeric on 2009-10-24
> **clear_runway said:**
> nvm not getting an update, the manager was on the fritz. I got it now. just installed, no change. how do I check my drivers? And why would the drivers change? the drivers I used in jaunty worked fine.

and visual effects are turned all the way down. as for the sound I'm trying, absolutely nothing works. playinf from a cd, mp3's, sfx, whatever. nothing.

Is it possible to revert back to 9.04 without losing anything?

In my first post, I have suggested to use Synaptic Package Manager to install gnome-device-manager which looks like Windows Device Manager where you can see your list of hardware drivers.

Check my blog entry: [Ubuntu recognized my Video Card?]("http://aeric.poon.my/?p=254")  

Always remember to backup your important files when upgrade/downgrade your OS.

---

### Post by clear_runway on 2009-10-24
system monitor says both cores are going bonkers, the first is never below 50% and the second occilates from 10-50%

device manager doesn't seem to offer driver information, just a list of hardware, though oddly it seemed to recognize my core duo as two separate processors, with two separate but almost totally identical entries. this may be normal. it also say I have a "HDA Intel Sound Card" which is probably just a generic name.

the system is using .27 gb of ram and nothing for swap (whatever swap means, forgive my ignorance)

---

### Post by Aeric on 2009-10-24
You may check the running services or process thread in System Monitor by clicking on the Processes tab. Sort the %CPU and Memory descending to check what's eat up your resources. Right-Click the process and change it's priority (Nice value) to value above zero (lower priority).

---

### Post by clear_runway on 2009-10-24
a single process called "xorg" (i'm new to linux, so I have no idea what it is) seems to be using up tons of power. setting the priority low does nothing since no other process is using significant amounts of processing power.

kde doesnt seem to work any better than gnome. I havent tried the failsafe yet but I will.

update: trying to enter failsafe gnome ends in an error message and a redirect to regular old gnome

will try booting in safe mode

---

### Post by clear_runway on 2009-10-24
trying to boot into recovery mode resulted in a few "bios handoff errors" (my bios is some variant of H2O) and this interesting screen, which froze, forcing me to hold down the poweer button to reboot:
[IMG]http://i647.photobucket.com/albums/uu194/clear_runway/PIC_0357.jpg[/IMG]

yeah. a little weird.

---

### Post by null_pointer_us on 2009-10-24
I get the same problem with recovery mode.

Here's the bug report:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upstart/+bug/459636](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upstart/+bug/459636)

---

### Post by clear_runway on 2009-10-24
I bet you don't have all the problems I have. anyway, I think I wont be upgrading. and if I have to reformat the partition to get 9.04 back, well, that's okay since I can still copy all my stuff onto a thumb drive or whatever.

---

### Post by Aeric on 2009-10-25
ya, abit weird. Sad to hear that Karmic doesn't work for you. Perhaps it may be a temporary issue and would be fixed not too long after the official launch. I believe all Linux distro especially Ubuntu is getting better and stable.

---

### Post by 2blue on 2009-10-25
There should  be a solution to this, even in beta version. I have tested Karmic on minimal machines and the only difference I notice is that it needs a bit more harddrive space to install on than Jaunty. If the entire system runs very slow it points to a different problem than just drivers. 

Karmic runs fine on an old laptop with 30GB harddrive, 1GHz processor and 1GB RAM, very comparable in speed to my Dell Vista, 2,3 Intel Core Duo processor and 4GB RAM.

How large partition did you install Karmic on? You could try to download once more and burn a new CD.

---

