---
title: "(UNR) update-grub does not add moblin to boot options"
date: 2009-10-14
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by rednus on 2009-10-14
All, I have got a Asus 1005HA with XP and i have installed Moblin 2.1 and UNR-Karmic-beta on it and useing UNR's Grub2, when i run update-grub it recognizes Moblin partition but does not add it to the Grub menu? Anybody know why?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-14
There are several OS' that os-prober is having trouble dealing with.  Moblin is one of them.  I have no idea what the problem is.  I suspect that the file system is slightly different and makes finding the kernel difficult. 

What ever the reason there is a problem there.  There are a couple more.

I think that you are going to need to make a custom entry for that to work.  I have no idea what is needed for that entry though.  I am looking for a thread from some time back having to do with BSD that I think might be of some help.

I will post a link when I find it.  Should be soon.

EDIT
I can't find it.  It is in this testing forum but a good while back.  There have been a lot of imprlvements in grub2 since then but the menuentry may be close to what we need here.

We will get this with the help of folks here, I am sure.  We need to get a link to this on the Grub2 Introduction thread too.

You should take a careful look at some of the links there;

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1285897](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1285897)

It is possible that the answer is there.

I will keep looking into this.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-14
OK, so far we are on our own.

I have some trouble with Mandriva and the entries generated by grub2.  I use a custom entry for it;
```

echo "Adding Mandriva2009-0-Gnome on sda12" >&2
cat << EOF
menuentry "Mandriva 2009 Gnome sda12" {
linux (hd0,12)/boot/vmlinuz
initrd (hd0,12)/boot/initrd.img
}
EOF

```I actually use a custom entry to boot everything because the menu is shorter and the OS' are labeled the way I want them.

Non grub2 using Ubuntu;
```

echo "Adding JauntyVB on sdb9 (2.6.28-15-generic)" >&2 
cat << EOF
menuentry "JauntyVB, kernel 2.6.28-15-generic (sdb9)" {
    set root=(hd1,9)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set f6420b83-12e4-4760-9a79-4fcde04eb797
    linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-15-generic root=UUID=f6420b83-12e4-4760-9a79-4fcde04eb797 ro quiet splash
    initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-15-generic
}
EOF

```All the 9.10 variations are using a symbolic entry that basically just gives instructions to boot what ever is found on a defined partition;
```

echo "Adding DailyGrub on sda22" >&2
cat << EOF
menuentry "DailyGrub on sda22" {
        set root=(hd0,22)
        linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda22 so quiet splash
        initrd /initrd.img
}
EOF

```See the Grub2 Introduction (sticky) for more info on setting up custom entries.

You have Win Jerry Lewis Pro (or whatever) already on and I assume booting.  This means that you have the menuentry for it in you /boot/grub/grub.cfg file.

I think with a little experimentation with the examples above and your XP entry, you may be able to get an entry that works.

I know that there are folks that are using an entry very like the Win entry to boot Fedora.

I would try some thing like what I am using for Mandriva first (edited to your conditions).

Remember that anything you do to change grub2 will NOT take effect until you run update-grub.

If you go to your grub.cfg file you will need to run;
```

gksudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg
[code]
because it is read only for root.  This way you can copy your XP entry if you need it.

I would also run;
[code]
ubuntu-bug grub2

```and just follow instructions (registering first {if you do not havean account} with launchpad.net will make this smoother).  Let the devs know about your problem.  Apport will collect information that it thinks is relevant and send it to them as part of the report.

EDIT
You may want to look at some of these;

[https://launchpad.net/+search?field.text=grub2%2C+moblin&field.actions.search=Search](https://launchpad.net/+search?field.text=grub2%2C+moblin&field.actions.search=Search)

I don't know if they will be of any help or not but there they are.

---

### Post by prattmd on 2009-10-14
Here is my solution:

Install Grub 2 to the root partition of the UNR partition.  To do this, just execute:

> sudo grub-install /dev/sdax

where sdax is the partition where you have the UNR

THEN, install Moblin allowing it to write legacy grub to the MBR.  When you are installing Moblin, you can add partitions to the grub menu.  Just add an entry to the menu for UNR, /dev/sdax

Then when you select UNR from the Moblin grub meny, you are essentially chainloading Grub 2 on the UNR partition.

I am successfully triple booting Moblin, UNR, and Kubuntu Netbook

Mark

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-14
Now see, this may not be real elegant but it works.  I knew there were folks out there that were doing this.

Thank you for that prattmd.

I am glad to see another multibooter, by the way, that does not include Win Jerrry Lewis Pro on the box.  I mean what did it ever do to you?

---

