---
title: "9.10 issues !?!?!?"
date: 2009-07-17
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by djdanamal on 2009-07-17
OK, I'm kinda new to linux' etc but have a reasonable idea how to use it....
I,ve been runnung ubuntu for about a year upgrading along the way but now I whent to the new 9.10 Im having more trouble than normal (I always have some kind of problem big or small :-)  )
My issues are...
-sound out put very low-
-system freezes upon starting AWM-
-wont save desktop settings-
-desktop launchers dissapear then re-appear-
-trash wont open?-
-rhythm box crashes-
-add + remove app crashes-
-cant select icons to customise folders-

plus more things I cant remember right now...

I have a reasonable basic set-up, 120gb HDD, 1gb ram, AMD processor (64 capable but running 32bit I think), integrated sound and video...

really a simple computer like this should work effortlessly.

I have the Hdd partitioned with an older ubuntu 6.? that need something like 240+ up-dates that works perfectly but the 9.10 side is not so great.

hmmmm....

anyone got any ideas??:confused:

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2009-07-17
tried re-installing just the desktop?> sudo apt-get install --reinstall ubuntu-desktop

---

### Post by Arup on 2009-07-17
9.10 is alpha, I guess you mean 9.04, in case you are running alpha, problems are but expected.

---

### Post by djdanamal on 2009-07-18
ok, so I did the "desktop" thingy...
I'll see if I have problems still.
I do expect lots of problem with this 9.10 distribution but I do have faith with linux/ubuntu being leading OS software. What I've seen so far i'm very impressed.
I wont be going back to Windows but I will like to get some of my windows games running.

I'll keep u posted on my issues

---

### Post by djdanamal on 2009-07-18
that was quick!

I did the desktop app-get reinstall. no help.
tried to open trash, all folders and launchers disapear for a second, trash folder opens for a millisecond, and back to desktop. :-( no success

Tried opening avant window manager and desktop froze again. forced to restart bu hitting restart button on PC case.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-07-18
To say the least, unless you have a lot of developer knowledge, you should probable reinstall 9.04.. 

As you may already know 9.10 isn't due to release until October. 

There are people here that may be able to help, but not as many as there would be for the supported releases.

---

### Post by reshpectabiggle on 2009-07-18
Hi. I've been having some issues with 9.04 on the GNOME side of things. (I've never got the wireless on the KDE side working and I didn't really care for the frills) that I thought might be worth putting out there for the awesome people who make this great OS.

My stats:
Ubuntu Jaunty Jackalope upgraded from Heron, 9.04
Kernel release: 2.6.28-13-generic (I don't actually know what this means, but it might help someone?)
Processor architecture i686

In the last week or so, my whole experience has been a lot less stable. JJ was rock solid when I started out on it, minus wireless troubles, and it's been having some really irritating errors recently. When I go to flash (usually game) websites, my Firefox lags a lot and even has screen flickers within the browser picture. This is not because the internet is slow, other websites load and play just fine. I realize that game websites can load browsers down, but I used to be able to play these games with no problem.

I have also experienced Rhythmbox doing strange things as well, only in the past few weeks. Sometimes it will just shut down inexplicably. Just a few minutes ago while I was listening to a song, I clicked on a youtube video link and instead of both of them playing at once at my set volumes, Rhythmbox/Volume Control cut the volume for both of them down to whisper level. I had to go into Volume Control and Rhythmbox and monkey around for a good ten minutes to get the volume for the internet, Rhythmbox, and generic system sounds back to the right levels. 

It's not totally unmanageable, and I know there are worse problems than having a capricious media player, but I got into this whole Linux thing because I didn't like my computer behaving in a high-handed manner with my settings, and these kinds of problems are a little unsettling.

---

### Post by djdanamal on 2009-07-18
I'm thinking of heading back to 9.04
can I do this without loosing everything?
the main reason I opted to run with 9.10 is because Jaunty would crash uot then take me days to get running again. Some of the packages got so corrupted along the way the Pc became nearly un-usable.

You would imagine the new 9.10 package will have carried out a very close profile to Jaunty but with a few upgrades that should solve peoples minor problems

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-07-18
> **djdanamal said:**
> I'm thinking of heading back to 9.04
can I do this without loosing everything?
the main reason I opted to run with 9.10 is because Jaunty would crash uot then take me days to get running again. Some of the packages got so corrupted along the way the Pc became nearly un-usable.

You would imagine the new 9.10 package will have carried out a very close profile to Jaunty but with a few upgrades that should solve peoples minor problems

Karmic isn't ready yet, If you installed with a seperate /home partition and tell the install not to format it, your settings and saved files should be ok. If you didn't install that way I would recommend doing it like that. I reinstalled 8.04 today because I jacked it up pretty bad and it wouldn't run. My files and settings came out fine.

When you do your install, you will want 3 partitions. Make the first one 10 to 20 Gigs with a mount point of / the second can be as big as you want as long as you can save all your files in it with the mount point set at /home and lastly you will want the swap partition to be about twice the size of your RAM.

If you really want stability you should go with the 8.04 Long Term Support. as it has been tweaked for going on 18 months and will be supported until 2011..

Going [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/installation-guide/index.html") will tell more specifics about how to do the install that should make you happy.

Let us know how it goes.

---

### Post by vinutux on 2009-07-18
plz...install 9.04........ the stable ubuntu ...9.10 is for software testers now....not suitable for end-users

---

### Post by djdanamal on 2009-07-18
I can live with the minor things for now.

I do understand it is available as a testing release but I did the same with 9.04 and learnt to rebuild it when I had problems.

As an "end user", I should be a good "test dummy" for it really.
If someone like me who has no formal computer training can get it to run reasonably well then the people who have written the codes in the first place have actually achieved  something. 

If people with lots of knowledge can point me in the direction I need to resolve problems for myself everyone wins.

I've got 9.04 on disk as well as 8.10, if I get totally lost I have my fallout plan.
My hard disk is partitioned accordingly. 

As far as the audio issues are concerned, what are the packages I will need to focus on?
If other people have the same "low output" bug, what have you done to get around it?

---

### Post by Asraniel on 2009-07-18
You might also check out kubuntu 9.04, it's the same but has another interface than ubuntu. [www.kubuntu.org](www.kubuntu.org)

(just saying, i think kubuntu really does not get the attention it should for new users, i think personaly a windows user might feel more at home in kde than i gnome. But no, i won't even answer on any flame attempts here ;-) )

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-07-18
as others have stated this is a developement install , expect problems to constantly come and go , use the "search this forum" function to search on your specific problems to see what others have posted about them and to find fixes/workarounds , do not use karmic or any developement distro as your "main" system or you will be asking for grief . This is a good way to learn more about Ubuntu but you have to have the "stomach" for it .

---

### Post by nanog on 2009-07-18
I prefer bleeding edge to stable. Current releases often have regressions that KILL my productivity. Testing often has fixes for some of the most annoying bugs that will take months to work there way through the backporting process.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-07-18
@ nanog as long as you understand and accept the potential dangers of development software , use it .

---

### Post by taavikko on 2009-07-18
> **ronacc said:**
> @ nanog as long as you understand and accept the potential dangers of development software , use it .

It differs for people, one is capable of running devel-version of entire OS.
others need help in basic use (e.g, where can i find the console?)
So it's really not an good idea to propose or support of usage of devel-version to others.

---

### Post by nanog on 2009-07-18
> So it's really not an good idea to propose or support of usage of devel-version to others. 

Support - emphatically no. Usage - YES!

We need more people running development versions. I was running default Jaunty on an nvidia test machine and missed the horrendous intel bugs. It was, frankly, embarrassing when I upgraded my production machines at work.

---

### Post by vinutux on 2009-07-18
yeh... use unstabele is not for noobs..so discourage themto do so..

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-07-18
that reply was directed specificly at nanog , if you check my original reply to the OP you will see that I cautioned HIM against running dev as his main system and stated that problems with unstable SW are to be expected .

---

### Post by djdanamal on 2009-07-18
I,ve been reading all the things you lot are posting, I get the feeling some of you are not too happy with the fact anyone can access the development OS.
As far as the pc working on it it's running fine but, I still would like to know if anyone else has experienced similar things that I have, ie; trash; audio; AWM etc...?

---

### Post by nanog on 2009-07-18
I for one would heartily endorse a warning prior to installation. Maybe then we could cut down on the dramatic admonitions that using development ubuntu could result in all your data being siphoned off by botnet haXors.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-07-18
> **djdanamal said:**
> I,ve been reading all the things you lot are posting, I get the feeling some of you are not too happy with the fact anyone can access the development OS.
As far as the pc working on it it's running fine but, I still would like to know if anyone else has experienced similar things that I have, ie; trash; audio; AWM etc...?

I'm no developer but *I would imagine* when they run across problems they don't think of them as problems, but just more work and if it isn't in their scope to fix it then they just forward it to someone that does work with that issue. 

Your best bet for help on those issues is to post a bug report on them. Those guys are not trying to be rude, they don't have much free time to work with non-developers on fixing things, so like I said, you should do a bug report for your problems and with some luck they will be fixed in a future update.

Those guys have only six months to build the OS while also fixing issues with the previous supported releases.

Here is a toast to those hard workers! Cheers!

---

### Post by Moop on 2009-07-18
I agree that the sound output seems low but it was that way for me on 9.04 too. I haven't had any of the other problems the op has experienced. 

Try turning off desktop effects if you haven't already. I don't know why they enable that by default.

---

### Post by wayne_cat on 2009-07-18
The AWN problem is a known bug:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/avant-window-navigator/+bug/398008](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/avant-window-navigator/+bug/398008)

---

### Post by miklcct on 2009-07-19
I wiped out my whole system and installed Karmic yesterday because using lots of PPA in order to use bleeding-edge versions of software made my Jaunty troublesome. Now, the unstable period is nearly gone as KDE has now come to RC.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-07-19
@djdanamal

Don't let them run you off.  The main reason I am running 9.10A2 right now is so that I will learn more, faster.

Frankly I am disapointed.  Boringly stable for an alpha.

You really ought to be installed on more than 1 partition and, if smart, dual booting with something that you can rely on.  That said, linux is about choice.  It is your box and you are free to screw it up anyway you want.

I do this on a regular basis and have not had so much fun on a computer for years.

9.10 has not killed any kittens yet either, at least not in our house.

---

### Post by taavikko on 2009-07-19
> **djdanamal said:**
> I,ve been reading all the things you lot are posting, I get the feeling some of you are not too happy with the fact anyone can access the development OS.


I for one don't care who uses what. Thing is, that if someone has to ask for help, on basic usage, it can't be a pleasant smooth ride. Better is to get accustumed to basic use, and after that, the road is open.

This is subforum on discussion of devel version of ubuntu+1
this hardly can't be categorized as general help?

Doesn't kill any kittens? someone here remembers the e1000e issue on intrepid cycle ;)

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-07-19
We really aren't trying to run people off , the more testers the better . We are trying to make sure that those who do choose to test understand that during the developement cycle things can and will go wrong , sometimes disasterously wrong .At the very least you should run any developement release on a seperate partition with a stable release as a dual boot alternate . We who have been testing for awhile feel it is our duty to warn new testers that they truly can be hurt when things do not go as planned so that they will not suffer as some of us have .Testing can be a great learning experience besides helping improve Ubuntu if you do it in a manner that minimises potential harm to your system . Use the search this forum drop down on the main page of this forum to find threads , if any , already discussing your problem(s) and try to keep things to one problem per thread , this minimises clutter and confusion as things can get very "lively" here at times .One more admonition , keep a live cd of a stable release handy so you can get to the forum to seek help incase of a "no boot" or "black screen" situation .

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2009-07-19
Let's put it another way. There's a reason why there are separate sections for [beginners]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=326") and for one development testers.

Testing the development release has prerequisites. You need to know the proper procedure for reporting bugs. You need to be aware that restricted drivers (NVIDIA/ATI and some others) will usually not work. You need to know how to perform basic-to-intermediate tasks via a terminal (since Xorg can break). You need to know the dangers of blindly performing Partial Upgrades.

> **ronacc said:**
> We really aren't trying to run people off , **the more testers the better .**

I agree with this statement only if new testers know the full prerequisites for testing. If people want to test the development release, they will gravitate towards doing so without the need for artificial pressure to be applied.

At the moment, we lack a central document or reference which explains the real prerequisites and dangers of testing the development release (aside from the release notes' *do not test on production systems* blurb). We need to have this information in place at the beginning of testing, not half-way through (since the prerequisites towards testing become less important as the system becomes more stable).

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-07-19
> At the moment, we lack a central document or reference which explains the real prerequisites and dangers of testing the development release 
didn't there used to be a "sticky " in each dev forum to that effect ? If not there should be . I see there isn't one for this forum .It should be possible to write up one and just move it from forum to forum .

---

### Post by aamukahvi on 2009-07-19
> **ronacc said:**
> didn't there used to be a "sticky " in each dev forum to that effect ? If not there should be . I see there isn't one for this forum .It should be possible to write up one and just move it from forum to forum .
Like this one? : [Contributing to Karmic Koala ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1161570")

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2009-07-19
> **aamukahvi said:**
> Like this one? : [Contributing to Karmic Koala ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1161570")

No. That's an excellent thread, but it doesn't contain any meaningful warnings or information on how the development release differs from the final product.

---

### Post by aamukahvi on 2009-07-19
> **psyke83 said:**
> No. That's an excellent thread, but it doesn't contain any meaningful warnings or information on how the development release differs from the final product.

From thread: > If you're confused about and/or having too many problems with the development version and don't exactly feel on top of things, don't run it for the time being. The Ubuntu development process is a tough ride, tougher than most distros, due to the cutting edge technology policy and the fixed development duration that's tightly packed with radical changes; if at any point you decide that you can't bear with it, drop it until a more stable phase, a milestone release, or entirely. Karmic will be a development version until October 2009, and is prone to major breakage at any point. Do not rely on it as your main operating system. If you decide to test it, be aware that you're risking being left without a working operating system, and data loss.

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2009-07-19
> **aamukahvi said:**
> From thread:

Where are the warnings about (to name a few):
[LIST]
[*]restricted drivers (NVIDIA/ATI) not working most of the time, without manually patching?
[*]running Partial Upgrades without personally verifying changelogs to ensure packages should be removed (or not)?
[*]Xorg breakage (and the expectation that you may need to administer your system without a functioning GUI)?
[/LIST]
Nullack's thread is a very useful resource when you are *already* testing the development release, but it still doesn't give new users a clear, concise indication of the expectations placed upon a tester.

No disrespect to djdanamal, but it appears that you weren't fully aware of the risks before testing. I can guarantee that your issues are probably mentioned in this forum somewhere - or reported on launchpad. 

Example: I suspect that your nautilus crashes are caused by ubuntuone, but you could have found this if you tried to [hunt down]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1215607") the information yourself. 
Another: is AWN causing your system to freeze, or is the problem more likely to be compositing that causes the problem? If it's the latter (which is likely, since Karmic isn't using stable Xorg core and driver versions), it's a driver issue and not an application issue. Since you didn't provide your system information, nobody can help you but yourself.

Don't get me wrong, I'm not chastising you for being a n00b, I'm just pointing out that you may have unrealistic expectations of the development release. It's not your fault, either, because there really isn't a clear explanation of the risks in a single location.

---

### Post by taavikko on 2009-07-19
> **psyke83 said:**
> .
.
 there really isn't a clear explanation of the risks in a single location.

How hard could it be to ad a warning when someone triggers "update-manager -d"
This would serve a reminder for some.

And thus when d/l an devel .iso upon a boot a somekind of an reminder...
/*this would be trickier to achieve*/

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-07-19
why don't we start a seperate thread for the crafting of the sticky ? where we can post what we think is needed and then someone can cut and paste the best suggestions to create the sticky itself , make it generic don't mention a specific version ( jaunty , karmic , etc ) so it can be moved to each new iteration of the forum .

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-07-19
Isn't the statement at the top of every page on this testing forum enough;
> 
Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion
Ubuntu Karmic Koala is in development, use only for testing purposes!!!

I think that covers it quite well.

You have been warned.

---

### Post by tghe-retford on 2009-07-19
> **ronacc said:**
> At the very least you should run any developement release on a seperate partition with a stable release as a dual boot alternate .
I had a disastrous bug when testing Jaunty and ext4 where emptying the trash also had the effect of wiping data from other partitions. At the very least, users need to safeguard their partition which contains their stable release, better yet, test on completely separate machines where possible.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-07-19
I agree completely , infact I do test on a separate dedicated test machine . but note I said at the very least , over the years I have had the wrong partition get formated , the whole drive get used when only a partition was supposed to be and once ubiquity formatted every drive in the box  so yes a separate machine is desirable , but lets face it , also impractacle  for most people . That is why we need the sticky to warn people so that they can make an informed choice . and also set out the proper procedures for reporting bugs etc .

---

### Post by nanog on 2009-07-19
there is absolutely no guarantee that you won't have your partitions wiped in 6.06 LTS either. recovering from an oops in testing is not that different from stable release which brings me to my favorite command of all time: dd if=/dev/sda | gzip > secondarystorage.

---

### Post by robert.rankin.jr on 2009-07-19
> **taavikko said:**
> How hard could it be to ad a warning when someone triggers "update-manager -d"
This would serve a reminder for some.

And thus when d/l an devel .iso upon a boot a somekind of an reminder...
/*this would be trickier to achieve*/

I know that there is a warning when you download the iso, and start the installer. On the very first page of the installer, in fact.

As far as update-manager -d is concerned,

> 
= Welcome to the Ubuntu 'Karmic Koala' development release =

*** 
This is still a ALPHA release.
Do not install it on production machines.  


I'm sure that they could add a bit more warning there, but I think that is plenty. Plain and simple: if you need your computer to work, don't install this.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-07-19
I have 5 SATA drives, three in external enclosures, 2 internal.  When loading any suspect OS (certainly an alpha) I turn off all HDDs not involved.

I only have 4 on my internal sda and nothing goes on there that I am worried about.

Internal sdb is all 32bit stuff and I disable 2 cores when fooling with that stuff.

The externals run fine and when using one all other drives are off.

I currently have 2 9.10-32 installations on sdb and 2 9.10-64 installs on one external.

They are all well contained to their individual drives.  There are other OS' on both those drives so that I can see if they play nice together and, in this case, test grub2.

---

### Post by flavouride on 2009-07-19
Guess having a Jaunty (or better yet kernel 2.6.30) Live CD in hand with gparted, grub2 and testdisk is everything we need to encounter any undesirable situations that may occur within the testing of a prerelease

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-07-19
I also keep supergrubdisk and a standalone gparted handy also and also a puppy cd just to be through .

---

### Post by Sophont on 2009-07-20
You don't need extra machines or extra partitions for safe(ish) testing.

* Install Virtualbox.
* Create virtual machine
* Install into that machine

That will allow you to test any new apps. It won't tell you if everything works fine with your hardware though.

For that:
* Download desktop CD image
* Burn it
* Run live CD session, configuring WLAN, activate proprietary graphics driver if applicable - run your usual programs.
If anything important fails - look for bug report, write one if you don't find one - wait for fix - or skip the version (I did that with intrepid - messed up VPN that I need for work - upgraded to 9.04 where it was all fixed).

*If* you insist on installing the dev release on your regular machine:
* Wait for Alpha 4 - by then most of the fundamental have happened.
* *before* *every* update check this forum. Some bleeding edge users have always updated before you :-) - if they mention some serious trouble - wait a day or 2 - it's likely fixed by then.
* Don't do partial upgrades - or know what it involves.

That's what I have been doing and I have yet to loose any data and I never had to re-install.
The only re-install I ever did was by choice - just to have a clean fresh system (when I say "ever" - I mean Ubuntu since Edgy).

Oh - almost forgot because it should be obvious but somehow never is - HAVE BACKUPS of your data. Not the os/apps - that's easily re-installed in 30-120 minutes. It's only your docs, music collection, whatever that's a serious loss.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-07-20
I have tried VB and do use it for some real problem OS' that do not play nice with others but, generally, I think it sucks.

If I am wanting to try something, I want it running as it is intended and that is installed as a stand alone OS, not filtered through other layers.

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2009-07-20
> **Sophont said:**
> * Install Virtualbox.

That's perhaps the *least* ideal way to test Karmic. None of your real hardware will be tested (since Karmic will use VirtualBox's emulated hardware drivers).

---

### Post by cykotiktek on 2009-07-21
I am a newer user that doesn't really use the command line but i have been testing from pre-alpha for four versions now.  I understand what can happen and it has happened to me.  I just chalk it up as a learning experience and either figure out how to fix it post it here or blow it away and reinstall.  It's now like it takes very long to reinstall ubuntu and i am always backed up and ready for failure.  Just because I am a command line junky doesn't mean that I am not useful for testing.  I figure as long as I am ready for failure I qualify.

---

### Post by iaskedalice09 on 2009-07-21
If you'd like to boost your sound, go to Terminal and type sudo apt-get install gnome-alsamixer -y and then after it's done, hit ALT + F2 and run gnome-alsamixer. Then, turn the volume up.

---

