---
title: "2.6.31 rc1!"
date: 2009-06-25
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by nanog on 2009-06-25
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc1/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc1/)
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc1/BUILD.LOG](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc1/BUILD.LOG)

amd64 running snappy!

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-06-25
tried to install on my amd64 sys , I get a message about bad file descriptor . I am uptodate karmic 64bit .
```
dpkg: unable to read filedescriptor flags for <package status and progress descriptor> : bad file descriptor 
```
 I get the same message on all the debs from the kernel ppa .

---

### Post by tghe-retford on 2009-06-25
> **ronacc said:**
> tried to install on my amd64 sys , I get a message about bad file descriptor . I am uptodate karmic 64bit .
```
dpkg: unable to read filedescriptor flags for <package status and progress descriptor> : bad file descriptor 
```
 I get the same message on all the debs from the kernel ppa .
I've been getting that same error message from any program that I try to install via gdebi. Installing them from the command line should work.

EDIT: Doesn't seem to like the nvidia drivers from thefirstm PPA:

```
 *  nvidia (185.19.1~really185.18.14)...                                        
nvidia (185.19.1~really185.18.14): Installing module.
........(bad exit status: 10)
  Build failed.  Installation skipped.
                                                     [fail]
```

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-06-25
thanks that got it , the amd64 heders deb wouldn't build the nvidia module but if it barfs on reboot I'll hand install the driver .

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-06-25
OK, so I am fairly new to this, never tried this typr of install.  Didn't work.

Download files to desktop (not the source files - have no idea what they would do for me)

Open terminal and "man dpkg"

Open another terminal and cd to Desktop and;
```

dpkg -i install linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31020631rc1_all.deb

```
and get this;
```

dpkg: error processing install (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
dpkg: error processing linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31020631rc1_all.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
Errors were encountered while processing:
 install
 linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31020631rc1_all.deb

```
Thought maybe I need to extract the bugger.  Hit extract here and;
```

ker@ker-desktop:~$ sudo dpkg -i install linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31020631rc1_all
dpkg: error processing install (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
dpkg: error processing linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31020631rc1_all (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
Errors were encountered while processing:
 install
 linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31020631rc1_all

```

NOW - this is the right time to make me feel like a real idiot - shat on earth should I be doing instead (must be someting because this doesn't seem to be productive)?

---

### Post by tghe-retford on 2009-06-25
> **ranch hand said:**
> Open another terminal and cd to Desktop and;
```

dpkg -i install linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31020631rc1_all.deb

```

Remove the 'install' part of that command:
```
dpkg -i linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31020631rc1_all.deb
```

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-06-25
I must be really dense;
```

ker@ker-desktop:~$ cd /home/ker/Desktop
ker@ker-desktop:~/Desktop$ sudo dpkg -i linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31020631rc1_all.deb
dpkg: error processing linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31020631rc1_all.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
Errors were encountered while processing:
 linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31020631rc1_all.deb

```
I am getting the same errors.

ker, by the way, is the user here on Kinky Kitty - Kernal Klink.

---

### Post by tghe-retford on 2009-06-25
> **ranch hand said:**
> I must be really dense;
```

ker@ker-desktop:~$ cd /home/ker/Desktop
ker@ker-desktop:~/Desktop$ sudo dpkg -i linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31020631rc1_all.deb
dpkg: error processing linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31020631rc1_all.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
Errors were encountered while processing:
 linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31020631rc1_all.deb

```
I am getting the same errors.
I think you're missing a "-" out of the file name. Try this:
```
sudo dpkg -i linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1_2.6.31-020631rc1_all.deb
```
What I tend to do is drag the file from the desktop to the terminal window and it copies the location of the file onto the command line. That way, you don't even need to change directory.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-06-25
That was it, I thought I checked it but my typing is really not that great.  That is installing now.

Thanks, I am in love with the CLI but really do not know much about actually using it.  It was one reason for getting in on 9.10 testing.  I figured it was a good chance at learning experiences.

The problem with that theory is that, so far, I have had very few problems.  Seems pretty good so far on my box.

Thanks a lot.  If you show up in SE Montana I owe you a few beers.

---

### Post by zekopeko on 2009-06-25
> **ranch hand said:**
> That was it, I thought I checked it but my typing is really not that great.

TAB is your friend. Three cheers for autocompletion.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-06-25
got the .31 kernel installed but can't get an nvidia module to build against it . seems it was built with gcc4.2 , when dkms tries to build the module it fails and when I try to install the 185.18.14 driver it complains about the gcc version , I'm having brain lock right now and can't remember the command to set gcc to 4.2 .

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-06-26
Everything looked like it installed but I will be hornswaggled if I can get it to boot to that kernal.  The boot on that HDD was with grub .97.  I have not been able to get grub2 to be boot root since installing another 9.04 after it.

I have gone so far as to install another 9.10A2 on the HDD and it is booting itself and 4 others very nicely but doesnot detect that kernal just 1.6.30.10.

I tried a number of edits of grub9.7 attempting to boot to it but could come up eith nothing that would work.  Unlike installing thing direct with dpgk, grub.97 is something I have got quite good at as I really like to play with a lot of OS'.

Oh well, back to 9.04 and a restart of boink.

---

### Post by plun on 2009-06-26
> **ronacc said:**
> got the .31 kernel installed but can't get an nvidia module to build against it . seems it was built with gcc4.2 , when dkms tries to build the module it fails and when I try to install the 185.18.14 driver it complains about the gcc version , I'm having brain lock right now and can't remember the command to set gcc to 4.2 .

Example from Albertos howto... 

> This means the installer tries to use gcc-3.4 instead of gcc-3.3(the right one in this case).Type this before launching NVIDIA installer:

[B]CC=gcc-3.3
export CC[/B]

The number of the version of gcc has to be the same as the 2nd one reported in the error by nvidia installer.

Then run Nvidia installer again. 


Reference:
[http://albertomilone.com/latest_nvidia_udsf_feisty.html](http://albertomilone.com/latest_nvidia_udsf_feisty.html)

I am in a summer house with my laptop for the moment so I cannot verify this. (nVidia on my desktop)

---

### Post by plun on 2009-06-26
Followup.... no meaning trying to build it, a patch is needed.

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=134779](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=134779)

---

### Post by masux594 on 2009-06-26
Only a question.. Is there a plan for the stable release of kernel? Or the release coincide with Karmic?

Sysc, A..

P.s. I wnat to know it, because i have the x64 version =)

---

### Post by Amaranth on 2009-06-26
The current plan is to use the 2.6.31 kernel in karmic, afaik.

---

### Post by bhishan on 2009-06-26
> **ronacc said:**
> tried to install on my amd64 sys , I get a message about bad file descriptor . I am uptodate karmic 64bit .
```
dpkg: unable to read filedescriptor flags for <package status and progress descriptor> : bad file descriptor 
```
 I get the same message on all the debs from the kernel ppa .

me too

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-06-26
@ Plun  Thanks 
@ bhishan  as per tghe-retford's post earlier this thread . install them from the terminal . cd to the dir where they are and .
```
 sudo dpkg -i <flilename> 
```
if you have an Nvidia card and need the propriatary driver see Pluns's post above about the patch .

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2009-06-26
Want I386 now (so I'm currently compiling it :P)!

---

### Post by tghe-retford on 2009-06-26
The NVidia drivers were upgraded today to 190.09 from thefirstm PPA, and these will not work either. In fact, they failed to build for i386 as well. I presume the module will not install for the same reason explained above.

```
* nvidia (190.09)...
nvidia (190.09): Installing module.
........(bad exit status: 10)
  Build failed.  Installation skipped.
                                       [[COLOR="Red"]fail[/COLOR]]
```

---

### Post by inportb on 2009-06-26
> **Amaranth said:**
> The current plan is to use the 2.6.31 kernel in karmic, afaik.

Nice. radeon-kms ftw?

---

### Post by jppr on 2009-06-26
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+source/linux/2.6.31-1.13](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+source/linux/2.6.31-1.13)

---

### Post by douham on 2009-06-27
> **jppr said:**
> [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+source/linux/2.6.31-1.13](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+source/linux/2.6.31-1.13)

It's been sitting in the queue for about 12 hrs  [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+queue]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+queue")

---

### Post by jppr on 2009-06-27
> **ronacc said:**
> got the .31 kernel installed but can't get an nvidia module to build against it . seems it was built with gcc4.2 , when dkms tries to build the module it fails and when I try to install the 185.18.14 driver it complains about the gcc version , I'm having brain lock right now and can't remember the command to set gcc to 4.2 .

just updated a new version of nvidia... 185.18.14

---

### Post by gnomeuser on 2009-06-28
> **Amaranth said:**
> The current plan is to use the 2.6.31 kernel in karmic, afaik.

Excellent this means realtimekit (rtkit) and pulseaudio 0.9.16 will be options. Nice low latency audio and new alsa drivers.. mmm makes the hurting stop.

---

### Post by artir on 2009-06-28
And this kernel is compiled for i586, so it should be faster

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2009-06-28
> **gnomeuser said:**
> Excellent this means realtimekit (rtkit) and pulseaudio 0.9.16 will be options. Nice low latency audio and new alsa drivers.. mmm makes the hurting stop.

Only if glitch-free is left enabled in PulseAudio... :(

By the way, if I try to enable glitch-free, I experience [bug #374010]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/374010") (which should be fixed), but Fedora 11 doesn't exhibit the bug at all.

---

### Post by lithorus on 2009-06-29
Looking forward for this:
> ext4: online defrag -- Add EXT4_IOC_MOVE_EXT ioctl

---

### Post by zika on 2009-06-29
> **douham said:**
> It's been sitting in the queue for about 12 hrs  [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+queue](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+queue)
Still in queue ... ;(
Luckily there is [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/daily/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/daily/) ... :)

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-06-29
Ya--I'm going to wait---anyone know if .31 is working with the nvidia driver?

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-06-29
> **lithorus said:**
> looking forward for this: Ext4: Online defrag -- add ext4_ioc_move_ext ioctl 			 		

+1 ;)

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2009-06-29
Speaking of ext4: there's still no driver for Windows that can access ext4 filesystems, right? :-/

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-06-29
Not as far as I know---have you tried the ext3 driver to see if it works? I only have one computer (laptop) that has Windoze installed & it's a ext3 Jaunty install.....

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2009-06-29
> **autocrosser said:**
> Not as far as I know---have you tried the ext3 driver to see if it works? I only have one computer (laptop) that has Windoze installed & it's a ext3 Jaunty install.....

Unfortunately once the extents feature is enabled, ext4 can't be accessed with those ext2/3-tools, so it's either a ext4-capable tool/driver or nothing.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-06-29
> **MacUntu said:**
> Unfortunately once the extents feature is enabled, ext4 can't be accessed with those ext2/3-tools, so it's either a ext4-capable tool/driver or nothing.

You might contact the developer about updating the tool---don't know how available he is--but as ext4 will be replacing ext2/3 within the next year or so..........

---

### Post by whoop on 2009-06-29
Did anyone try getting an creative x-fi card working with this kernel (without installing additional drivers) with alsa? If I am not mistaken this is supposed to work with .31...

---

### Post by plun on 2009-06-29
> **ronacc said:**
> @ Plun  Thanks 
if you have an Nvidia card and need the propriatary driver see Pluns's post above about the patch .

Ok, back at home and patching....;)


Only 64 bit verified  !

patch:
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showpost.php?p=2034067&postcount=5](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showpost.php?p=2034067&postcount=5)

```
sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-185.18.14-pkg2.run --apply-patch nvidia-185.patch.txt

```

Resulting file, NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-185.18.14-pkg2-**custom**.run



Howto patch reference:
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=110088](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=110088)


2.6.31-RC1 from Ubuntu Mainline..... up and running !

---

### Post by kj74 on 2009-06-30
> **whoop said:**
> Did anyone try getting an creative x-fi card working with this kernel (without installing additional drivers) with alsa? If I am not mistaken this is supposed to work with .31...

Yes it works if you have real x-fi card, i don't know about fakes...

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2009-06-30
Any idea when the 'image .deb' for '386' will be released?

---

### Post by rudenko_ruslan on 2009-06-30
> **DougieFresh4U said:**
> Any idea when the 'image .deb' for '386' will be released?
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc1-fix1/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc1-fix1/)

What about this?

---

### Post by wayne_cat on 2009-06-30
> **rudenko_ruslan said:**
> [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc1-fix1/]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc1-fix1/")

What about this?

Thank you ...

[COLOR=Red]edit: vga mode setting (vga=0x354) doesn't work with this kernel ... ATI x1600 (Macbook Pro v1.1)[/COLOR]

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2009-06-30
> **DougieFresh4U said:**
> Any idea when the 'image .deb' for '386' will be released?

It's out, I've got it up and running sort of.  A couple of crashes however it hasn't committed hari-kari yet.  Look for the 30-Jun-2009 entry.

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/)

linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1gc0d1117_2.6.31-020631rc1gc0d1117_all.deb
linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1gc0d1117-generic_2.6.31-020631rc1gc0d1117_i386.deb
linux-image-2.6.31-020631rc1gc0d1117-generic_2.6.31-020631rc1gc0d1117_i386.deb

Jerry

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-06-30
Is it working with nvidia?

---

### Post by caryb on 2009-06-30
Not for me, it borks when compiling against the kernel on my 64bit machine.


Cary

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2009-06-30
> **rudenko_ruslan said:**
> [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc1-fix1/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc1-fix1/)

What about this?

> **jerrylamos said:**
> It's out, I've got it up and running sort of.  A couple of crashes however it hasn't committed hari-kari yet.  Look for the 30-Jun-2009 entry.

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/)

linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1gc0d1117_2.6.31-020631rc1gc0d1117_all.deb
linux-headers-2.6.31-020631rc1gc0d1117-generic_2.6.31-020631rc1gc0d1117_i386.deb
linux-image-2.6.31-020631rc1gc0d1117-generic_2.6.31-020631rc1gc0d1117_i386.deb

Jerry
Thanks, got it.
Seems that the .31 is causing at or near 100% CPU. 
Any one else see this?

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2009-06-30
PulseAudio fans/foes:

I upgraded to 2.6.31-1-generic and performed some testing with PulseAudio - and I've got good news (at least for my intel8x0 audio codec)!

When I enable glitch-free playback in PulseAudio (as well as removing other customizations to the resampler and buffering), audio playback is flawless on my system. Even Skype works perfectly.

Of course I'm sure that not everyone will be so lucky with their sound card, but it's interesting nonetheless.

I've documented my thoughts here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/345627/comments/124](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/345627/comments/124)

---

### Post by Regenweald on 2009-06-30
> **caryb said:**
> Not for me, it borks when compiling against the kernel on my 64bit machine.
Cary

did you patch it ? patched here, works. 185-14 + .31

---

### Post by davideotape on 2009-07-01
I seem to be getting the same errors here. Everything installs fine, but when it comes to booting, the DKMS auto installation for the nvidia driver fails. Bugreport: [https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/394343/](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/394343/)

---

### Post by plun on 2009-07-01
> **davideotape said:**
> I seem to be getting the same errors here. Everything installs fine, but when it comes to booting, the DKMS auto installation for the nvidia driver fails. Bugreport: [https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/394343/+edit](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/394343/+edit)

A patch is still needed earlier discussed within this thread.

I dont know where to file a request...;)

---

### Post by dinxter on 2009-07-01
i set up the nvnews nvidia patch plun mentioned for dkms [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-180/+bug/393924"), (which i've now marked as a duplicate) adding this patch file to 

/usr/src/nvidia-185.18.14/patches/

then adding the following line to /usr/src/nvidia-185.18.14/dkms.conf

PATCH[1]="drm_agp_memory-2.6.31.patch"

should allow dkms to compile successfully on 2.6.31

check manually with,
dkms build -m nvidia -v 185.18.14 -k 2.6.31-1-generic

then,
dkms install -m nvidia -v 185.18.14 -k 2.6.31-1-generic

[EDIT] just to add, this is for the 2.6.31 kernel and nvidia 185 versions in the repository and not ones from other sources

---

### Post by paul_in_london on 2009-07-01
> **dinxter said:**
> i set up the nvnews nvidia patch plun mentioned for dkms [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-180/+bug/393924"), (which i've now marked as a duplicate) adding this patch file to 

/usr/src/nvidia-185.18.14/patches/

then adding the following line to /usr/src/nvidia-185.18.14/dkms.conf

PATCH[1]="drm_agp_memory-2.6.31.patch"

should allow dkms to compile successfully on 2.6.31

check manually with,
dkms build -m nvidia -v 185.18.14 -k 2.6.31-1-generic

then,
dkms install -m nvidia -v 185.18.14 -k 2.6.31-1-generic

[EDIT] just to add, this is for the 2.6.31 kernel and nvidia 185 versions in the repository and not ones from other sources

Thanks Dinxter - that did the trick for me!

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-07-02
Yes--THANKS Dinxter!!!  Works very well here also--SLI'd 9500GT pair.....

---

### Post by lithorus on 2009-07-02
I just love DKMS more and more :)

---

### Post by ruik on 2009-07-02
Thanks dinxter, working fine here too!

---

### Post by jppr on 2009-07-02
why DKMS through doesn´t make a new updated version... :-?

---

### Post by plun on 2009-07-02
Thanks dinxter....  seems to work also for the leaked driver, 190.09
(small modifications)

```
plun@plun:/$ sudo dkms build -m nvidia -v 190.09 -k 2.6.31-1-generic
[sudo] password for plun: 

Kernel preparation unnecessary for this kernel.  Skipping...
applying patch drm_agp_memory-2.6.31.patch...patching file nv-i2c.c
patching file os-agp.c


Building module:
cleaning build area....
make KERNELRELEASE=2.6.31-1-generic module KERNDIR=/lib/modules/2.6.31-1-generic IGNORE_XEN_PRESENCE=1 IGNORE_CC_MISMATCH=1 SYSSRC=/lib/modules/2.6.31-1-generic/build.......
cleaning build area....

DKMS: build Completed.

```

;)

---

### Post by dinxter on 2009-07-02
i've put the patched 185.18.14 packages into my [ppa]("https://launchpad.net/%7Edinxter/+archive/ppa") if anyone still has problems doing it by hand. partly to actually use my ppa for once, but mostly because for the 3rd time in 2 weeks i've got to hang around for the plumber to learn his smurfing job and fix my boiler! 
usual caveats apply about using ppa's, your computer exploding and being left weeping in a corner, etc :)

---

### Post by zika on 2009-07-02
> **psyke83 said:**
> Only if glitch-free is left enabled in PulseAudio... :(

By the way, if I try to enable glitch-free, I experience [bug #374010]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/374010") (which should be fixed), but Fedora 11 doesn't exhibit the bug at all.
What are defaults now for:
[B]resample-method
default-sample-format[/B]
in */etc/pulse/daemon.conf* ...?

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2009-07-02
I got some build errors. Attached is the make log

---

### Post by Joe_Bishop on 2009-07-02
> **tad1073 said:**
> I got some build errors. Attached is the make log

take a look at this page head post ;)

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2009-07-02
> **zika said:**
> What are defaults now for:
[B]resample-method
default-sample-format[/B]
in */etc/pulse/daemon.conf* ...?

Right now, the same as Jaunty's settings. However, it seems that these settings will be reverted to upstream defaults, and glitch-free will be enabled soon.

See [my comment]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/345627/comments/124") and [Daniel's response]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/345627/comments/126") on the bug report.

---

### Post by zika on 2009-07-02
> **psyke83 said:**
> Right now, the same as Jaunty's settings. However, it seems that these settings will be reverted to upstream defaults, and glitch-free will be enabled soon.
See [my comment]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/345627/comments/124") and [Daniel's response]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/345627/comments/126") on the bug report.I've read these comments but what are the values (for Jaunty and for upstream) since I've lost them in process of tweaking ... :)
update: OK, I've got it through --dump-config ... Thanks ... I've been using src-sinc-best-quality and float32be ... and now, by default, I have auto and s16le. I am not sure I can tell the difference ... (tsched=0 removed) ...

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2009-07-02
> **zika said:**
> I've read these comments but what are the values (for Jaunty and for upstream) since I've lost them in process of tweaking ... :)
update: OK, I've got it through --dump-config ... Thanks ... I've been using src-sinc-best-quality and float32be ... and now, by default, I have auto and s16le. I am not sure I can tell the difference ... (tsched=0 removed) ...

No need to change the sample format.

The values for Jaunty:
```
default-fragments = 8
default-fragment-size-msec = 10
```

Upstream do not customize these values (they are commented):
```
; default-fragments = 4
; default-fragment-size-msec = 25
```

For best results, comment the default-fragments, default-fragment-size-msec and resample-method lines in daemon.conf, and remove "tsched=0" from the "module-hal-detect" line in default.pa. You must be using kernel 2.6.31-1-generic or later.

Or you can wait until the next update of PulseAudio.

---

### Post by zika on 2009-07-02
> **psyke83 said:**
> For best results, comment the default-fragments, default-fragment-size-msec and resample-method lines in daemon.conf, and remove "tsched=0" from the "module-hal-detect" line in default.pa. You must be using kernel 2.6.31-1-generic or later.
Or you can wait until the next update of PulseAudio.yes, yes, yes, yes, 2.6.31-999-generic.  Waiting ...:)

---

### Post by jppr on 2009-07-02
just upgraded nvidia 185.18.14-0ubuntu2 and system works fine :)

---

### Post by plun on 2009-07-02
> **jppr said:**
> just upgraded nvidia 185.18.14-0ubuntu2 and system works fine :)

Yup  ;)

> nvidia-graphics-drivers-180 (185.18.14-0ubuntu2) karmic; urgency=low

  * Add in drm_agp_memory-2.6.31.patch to enable 2.6.31 support
    until NVIDIA has it in their next driver release. (LP: #394262)
    - Thanks everyone in that bug for finding and testing this patch.
    - Note: this patch appears to be a bit of a hack (removing i2c support)
      so take it with a grain of salt if there are still problems.

[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/karmic-changes/2009-July/003532.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/karmic-changes/2009-July/003532.html)



---

### Post by nanog on 2009-07-02
185.18.14  is a huge improvement. It now takes me a few days to clutter my four 3200x1200 workspaces with enough windows to get the dreaded nvidia black window error.

---

### Post by zika on 2009-07-03
> **psyke83 said:**
> No need to change the sample format.

The values for Jaunty:
```
default-fragments = 8
default-fragment-size-msec = 10
```Upstream do not customize these values (they are commented):
```
; default-fragments = 4
; default-fragment-size-msec = 25
```For best results, comment the default-fragments, default-fragment-size-msec and resample-method lines in daemon.conf, and remove "tsched=0" from the "module-hal-detect" line in default.pa. You must be using kernel 2.6.31-1-generic or later.

Or you can wait until the next update of PulseAudio.I've done some listening test and using resample-method = src-sinc-best-quality does make audible difference (in "good" HiFi system). Yes, it makes CPU run a bit more than with some other setting but it seems to be worth it ... :) One thing remains, I have to figure out how to make Performance governor stick with 2.6.31 without compile-ing kernel myself, which I did with 2.6.30 ...
**update:** [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7577339&postcount=17](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7577339&postcount=17)

---

### Post by JohnJackson on 2009-07-08
> **whoop said:**
> Did anyone try getting an creative x-fi card working with this kernel (without installing additional drivers) with alsa? If I am not mistaken this is supposed to work with .31...

I've only managed stereo with a Creative X-Fi Xtreme Gamer Fatal1ty

---

