---
title: "Karmic, Grub2, and EasyBCD"
date: 2009-09-20
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by KStorm on 2009-09-20
I have Kubuntu 9.10 installed to /dev/sdb8 with Grub2 installed to the root partition, with EasyBCD installed to /dev/sda.  Upon rebooting, choosing my new Kubuntu install on /dev/sdb8 results in a "cannot load from harddisk" error message.  I have other Linux installs at /dev/sdb5,6,7,and 9 that boot just fine.  Have searched for EasyBCD help but to no avail.  Any help getting into my new Kubuntu partition is appreciated.  Thanks.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-09-20
So you're getting the new Grub 2 menu at boot but can't boot Karmic?

---

### Post by VMC on 2009-09-20
> **KStorm said:**
> ... choosing my new Kubuntu install on /dev/sdb8 results in a "cannot load from harddisk" error message.  ....Print out the menuentry for Kubuntu.

---

### Post by KStorm on 2009-09-20
> **kansasnoob said:**
> So you're getting the new Grub 2 menu at boot but can't boot Karmic?Not getting the Grub2 menu at all.  I understand that Grub2 is different from Grub legacy when it comes to numbering drives and partitions; I might go through the install process again and look more closely at where Grub2 is installed.

---

### Post by VMC on 2009-09-20
KStorm, Just in case you didn't know. If you run into trouble go [**_here_**]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2") for a good explanation of how Grub2 works and some resolutions.

---

### Post by KStorm on 2009-09-20
> **VMC said:**
> Print out the menuentry for Kubuntu.

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
load_env
set default=0
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd1,8)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set eb7ac1b3-c697-495e-b814-3599c210ee2a
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
set timeout=10
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-10-generic" {
	set quiet=1
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd1,8)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set eb7ac1b3-c697-495e-b814-3599c210ee2a
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-10-generic root=UUID=eb7ac1b3-c697-495e-b814-3599c210ee2a ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-10-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-10-generic (recovery mode)" {
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd1,8)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set eb7ac1b3-c697-495e-b814-3599c210ee2a
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-10-generic root=UUID=eb7ac1b3-c697-495e-b814-3599c210ee2a ro single 
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-10-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title		Other operating systems:
root

---

### Post by VMC on 2009-09-20
Kstorm, there is a [**_LP_**]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/420933") bug report that you might want to read up on, since you are using two separate hard drives. Is you "/boot" on the same hard drive as karmic?

---

### Post by KStorm on 2009-09-20
> **VMC said:**
> Kstorm, there is a [**_LP_**]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/420933") bug report that you might want to read up on, since you are using two separate hard drives. Is you "/boot" on the same hard drive as karmic?
/boot is on the same hd as karmic; I can boot into karmic via chainloading grub2 from another Linux partition that has Grub legacy installed, so let's reckon this dilemma solved...for now.

---

### Post by sanyaldibya on 2009-10-20
I have the similar problem as KStorm. My HP Laptop is configured for multiboot. I have Vista, Ubuntu 8.10. I have EasyBCD to boot vista and Ubuntu 8.10. Here is the config:
 
/dev/sda1 Vista
/dev/sda2 /boot of Intrepid
grub legacy for Intrepid is installed in the boot sector of /dev/sda2
 
I wanted to install Karmic 9.10 (Ubuntu) Beta.
Upto /dev/sda11 is used by Intrepid. So I created 2 partitions for Karmic:
 
/dev/sda12 /boot
/dev/sda13 /
 
I chose to install grub2 in boot sector of /dev/sda12.
 
The these are the things I tried.
 
Both the partitions in ext4
Try to boot using EasyBCD by adding an entry for Karmic using grub in correct partition
Does not work (asks for system disk)
 
Both the partitions in ext4
Try to boot using grub legacy of Intrepid (press 'c' to go to command line)
grub> rootnoverify (hd0,11)
grub> chainloader +1
Does not work - I think it gave me something like 'Unknown boot format'.
 
/boot in ext3 and / in ext4 (thought that the issue is related to ext4 being new filesystem and not supported)
Try to boot using EasyBCD in the same way as above.
Does not work (asks for System Disk)
 
/boot in ext3 and / in ext4
Try to boot using grub legacy
grub> rootnoverify (hd0,11)
grub. chainloader +1
Does not work
 
I can see that KStorm's problem was resolved. Any help will be appreciated.

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-10-20
I boot karmic from jaunty with this. Karmic is on sdb so I put grub2 on sdb1 partition. It complains but it works.

```
title        SDB Karmic
root (hd1,0)
chainloader +1
```

---

### Post by sanyaldibya on 2009-10-20
I have a USB hard drive (device /dev/sdb). I can possibly try the same by putting grub2 on /dev/sdb1 and try to chainload tonight. I will post the results (work or no work).

---

