---
title: "9.10 Desktop no menubar/panels"
date: 2009-10-03
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Elkaintmoose on 2009-10-03
This might sound a little weird, but here goes:

I'm working on a project for school that involves Ubuntu on a generic Dell box. TO make a long story short, let's just say that sometimes the computer is hooked to a monitor, and sometimes it's not, and I connect to it either via ssh or vnc.

On 9.04, this setup worked fine. Just for kicks, I upgraded to 9.10, and now, when I'm using remote desktop, I can't see any panels/menubars, just a blank desktop. Everything else works, though, and hitting alt-f1 gives me access to the menus at the top of the screen. 

I thought it might have worked before under 9.04 because it was hooked to a monitor when I installed (it wasn't when I upgraded), and maybe the monitor settings "stuck" when I used it as a vnc machine. So I took the 9.10 install to a monitor and hooked it up. Sure enough, menubars and everything, just like you'd expect.

When I took it off, and used vnc instead, though, no menubar. 

I've been reading that xorg.config has been deprecated or something recently; is this correct? I noticed that my .config/monitors.xml was "blank" before I hooked it into a monitor. After I hooked it up, it now looks like this:

```
<monitors version="1">
  <configuration>
      <clone>no</clone>
      <output name="DVI-0">
          <vendor>DEL</vendor>
          <product>0x300e</product>
          <serial>0x42584355</serial>
          <width>1280</width>
          <height>1024</height>
          <rate>75</rate>
          <x>0</x>
          <y>0</y>
          <rotation>normal</rotation>
          <reflect_x>no</reflect_x>
          <reflect_y>no</reflect_y>
          <primary>no</primary>
      </output>
      <output name="S-video">
      </output>
  </configuration>
</monitors>
```

I thought that would do the trick, but evidently not -- monitors.xml still contains that information without a monitor attached, but is definitely not running at 1280x1024, for one thing...

Any ideas about what else could be causing this "missing menubar" behavior?

Thanks!

---

