---
title: "9.10 wubi's installation created a live-cd desktop after boot"
date: 2009-10-10
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Miki800 on 2009-10-10
downloaded 9.10 beta iso, mounted using daemon tools
installed ubuntu 9.10 using wubi, entered a username and a password in the wubi xp "NEXT NEXT NEXT" fields somewhere where it's relevant.


when I booted into wubi, to my surprise I found a live-cd desktop with no user other then ubuntu and root.
how other than that am I absolutely sure that this is a live-cd desktop?

well from the simple reason that there is an "Install Ubuntu 9.10" icon on the desktop.

if I already have done so from wubi, why would I want to do it again from ubuntu?
or maybe its just a bad-explained way of telling the user that ubuntu-team picked a bad name for a "configure this first time logged ubuntu install using this badly-named icon"?


anyways that was the first mistake I stumbled upon, and I though what the h*ck lets try this.

so I clicked on the "Install Ubuntu 9.10" icon and NEXT NEXT NEXT where needed.
The second mistake in this installation is that somewhere over that icon's program execution I got a small pop up window titled "Guided partitioning" and it froze for more then 30 minutes till I gave up.


so, what did I do wrong?
or did 9.10 went from Alpha to Beta without anyone stumbling or fixing this wubi mistake?


thanks so much for information about this, I do not know if I should expect solutions from the community but I need to know if this happened to more people to know that THAT problem is being treated so I can try the next beta after its fixed.


edit: I learned that using xkill can destroy xwindows so I did that on the installation and reactivated it - it worked wonderfully! :)

wierd that I have to re-do the live-cd installation experience when I actually did a wubi installation that should skip that and do the whole process from windows giving me a completed ubuntu installation

---

