---
title: "9.10 Karmic Requirements"
date: 2009-10-26
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by bsntech on 2009-10-26
Hi folks -

I have been using the 9.10 Karmic Beta for a few weeks now.  I am finding that the PC is running very sluggish and seems slower than my previous single-core XP3200 PC.  I have been updating the distribution daily with the updates.

Here is a run-down of the new PC I have it on:

ECS GF8200A motherboard (built-in GeForce 8200 video card, gigabit ethernet, 8-channel audio with S/PDIF header that I am using for digital out to the audio receiver)
Phenom X4 9650 2.3 GHz process
2 GB DDR2 1066 Memory in Ganged Mode (512 MB used for video card)
Hauppauage HVR-1600 tuner
Hauppauage HVR-1250 tuner
Hauppauge PVR-150 tuner (only using this for the remote capability since it seems the remote capability on the HVR-1600 is currently broke - see [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lirc/+bug/454371]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lirc/+bug/454371"))

Granted, I have a lot running on this PC - MythTV and the backend, Apache2 for Mythweb (allows scheduling of shows and configuration updates), and MySQL for the MythTV program to function.

However, the computer takes at least one full minute to boot up.  The BIOS page takes about five seconds - then it goes to the black page with the white Ubuntu logo in the middle for a good 30 - 35 seconds - and then to the new xsplash Ubuntu splash page for another 20 seconds.  Finally it loads into Ubuntu.

When attempting to load OpenOffice, it takes probably 15 - 20 seconds to fully open any of those applications.

Does anyone else doing the testing have these issues?  I cannot figure out how a quad-core processor would seem to be slower than a single core.  The old computer had only 1 GB of memory - so I also doubled the amount of memory in the new PC.

I have seen many videos on YouTube showing Karmic - and it seems the moment they click to open a program (even OpenOffice), it opens in a matter of 2 - 3 seconds and is very quick.

Would all of these updates be causing the slowness as well - since over the period of the release, there has been 300+ MB of changes and updates?

Also - I am using the 64-bit version of Ubuntu now - whereas on the older PC, I used the 32-bit version.

---

### Post by sanderj on 2009-10-26
I run 9.10 RC on my Atom netbook. A few days ago it was slow. I checked via System -> Administration -> System Monitor, tab Processes, sorting on CPU%, and discovered 'gdb' was eating all my CPU.

So: can you check your System Monitor what your CPU load and CPU% is?

BTW: why don't you apply the updates?

---

### Post by bsntech on 2009-10-26
Hmm.. maybe I mis-stated about the updates.  I do apply the updates - they are applied everyday - and sometimes twice a day as I see them!

In regards to GDB - this process isn't running at all.

The odd thing is, top shows the load averages are fairly small - and this is even with running a commercial flagger as MythTV is recording an HD show:

load average:  0.28 0.29 0.21

Here shows memory usage from TOP:

Mem:   1539392k total,  1526148k used,    13244k free,     3544k buffers
Swap:  1951856k total,   203556k used,  1748300k free,  1049080k cached

89% of the CPU is idle.

----------------

Here is what it looks like after the mythcommflag application was done:

load average: 0.09, 0.17, 0.18

Mem:   1539392k total,  1396556k used,   142836k free,     3628k buffers
Swap:  1951856k total,   222692k used,  1729164k free,  1004316k cached

99% of the CPU is idle.

----------------

Is it possible there is a memory issue?  I always was under the impression that Linux didn't use too much memory - and figured 2 GB would be sufficient.

System Monitor is showing only 408 MB of the 1.5 GB of memory is being used (512 is shared with the video card - so a total of 2 GB).  Swap space of 212 MB is being used.

Here is a link to one of the YouTube videos.  OpenOffice and Firefox open just in the blink of an eye - but on my system - it is like a turtle compared to this.

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sycEo1CGU1I]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sycEo1CGU1I")

---

