---
title: "9.10 beta kernel update with grub2 question"
date: 2009-10-12
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by rifak on 2009-10-12
hey everyone,
so the other day, i updated 9.10 beta to the newest kernel (2.6.31-13) and when it was compiling and configuring, it said that it couldnt find the file "/boot/grub/menu.lst" and asked if i wanted to create this. i checked yes, and it created it and added the new kernel option. however, when i rebooted, it did not show the new kernel option. now i know this menu.lst file is what grub1 uses to read at bootup, and grub2 uses "/boot/grub/grub.cfg", but how come the new kernels are not recognizing the usage of grub2? how i resolved this, is that i reinstalled grub2, and it then found the newest kernel when doing the configuring after installation...i now have the option to boot into 2.6.31-13. did i do this correclty? and also, is there another method that should be used that is more straight forward?

---

### Post by jeremyswalker on 2009-10-12
Well, this is how you could have added the entry without reinstalling grub2:
```
sudo update-grub
```

I'm not sure why it created a menu.lst file. I updated to the latest kernel and everything went fine for me.

---

### Post by Intrepid Ibex on 2009-10-12
I think what you did was just fine, if you don't see any difference :).

Though this would probably have saved you from the trouble:
```
sudo update-grub
```

**E:** ah, jeremyswalker was faster :).

---

### Post by rifak on 2009-10-12
thanks, i'll definitely use that for future reference. also, since the kernel update: in System Monitor, in the Processes tab, and under the Waiting Channel column, i am getting things like "do_wait" and "poll_schedule_timeout" and other things like that, is this normal? i don't remember seeing this with the older kernel, or with my previous version 8.04.

---

### Post by Intrepid Ibex on 2009-10-14
I remember getting a lot of them due my Ubuntu and GNOME times. I just ignored them as unnecessary information for me - so yes you should be just fine :).

---

