---
title: "2.6.31-4-rt won't boot"
date: 2009-09-02
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by trulan on 2009-09-02
After much enjoying the first several rt kernel releases in Karmic, I am unable to boot on either -3-rt or -4-rt.  (2.6.31-2-rt and 2.6.31-9 generic are working fine).

the latest rt kernel (4) gets quite a bit further in booting than does (3).  I had the Nvidia 185 drivers installed (and mostly working), but I continue to be a little suspicious of them.

At first, I was getting a message about the nvidia module 'tainting' the kernel.  Then, 'loading hardware drivers' then loading the nvidia module, then the system would freeze.

So, I purged nvidia-glx-185, and the message changed.  Now, it freezes after saying something about being unable to find ACPI or something like that.  But it's the same place in the boot sequence as it was crashing when the nvidia drivers were installed.

Any ideas what might be wrong? Any ideas where I might find a log file of this, or how I would go about getting a log of the problems?

Edit:  Here's an attempt at copying what the screen says before the crash (this is booting in recovery mode):
```
*Loading hardware drivers...
ACPI: I/O resource nForce2_smbus [0x4c00-0x4c3f] conflicts with ACPI region SM00 [0x4c00-0x4c05]
ACPI: Device needs an ACPI driver
nForce2_smbus 0000:00:0a1: Error probing SMB1.
i2c-adapter i2c0: nForfe2 SMBus adapter at 0x4c40
```After this, it will wait for several minutes, then say the thing about Superblock last write time is in the future.  Then, it tells me to run a manual FSCK and says it is dropping to a maintenance shell.  It gives me a prompt but is completely unresponsive.

---

### Post by trulan on 2009-09-08
I get the same behavior as described above on my laptop.  The differences in machines are:
32 bit Intel Core Duo vs. 64 bit AMD
Laptop vs. desktop
Intel graphics vs. NVidia graphics
Fresh install vs. many many updates

It makes me wonder if there is something broken in the Ubuntu Studio setup?

On this computer, there are no error messages while booting in recovery mode - it just hangs while loading hardware drivers.

Edit:  Okay, it lets me get to the recovery mode screen if I wait several minutes (not the desktop, it never loads the keyboard drivers) - but x fails to start.  So I can at least work with it in a small way...

---

### Post by trulan on 2009-09-10
I believe this is the bug that is affecting my AMD64 machine:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-rt/+bug/423152](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-rt/+bug/423152)

Not sure if my 32bit laptop is affected by the same issue or not...

---

### Post by soundcheck on 2009-09-12
I have a similar problem on a T60P. 

The 2.6.31-1-rt has been quite stable. I am still running it.

---

### Post by kvk on 2009-09-14
If I want to experiment with the 2.6.31-4-rt as a possible solution to my problems with JACK in 9.04, are there any red flags about running a previous version with a newer rt kernel?

---

### Post by hanzomon4 on 2009-09-14
I'm using 2.6.31-3-rt however all of the new rt kernels have the wrong system timer setting. run  grep CONFIG_HZ /boot/config* and you can see for yourself. I filed a bug so I hope it gets fixed

---

