---
title: "E17"
date: 2009-06-30
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by descendent87 on 2009-06-30
Just had a look and can't see any e17 packages in the repo? Does ubuntu not package e17? I've found a few guides on installing from SVN or 3rd party repo's but I'd rather install from the ubuntu repo's. Is there a reason why it's not packaged?

---

### Post by wayne_cat on 2009-06-30
> **descendent87 said:**
> Just had a look and can't see any e17 packages in the repo? Does ubuntu not package e17? I've found a few guides on installing from SVN or 3rd party repo's but I'd rather install from the ubuntu repo's. Is there a reason why it's not packaged?

You will no find it in the official repository. There is a description in the german Ubuntu Wiki:

[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/E17](http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/E17) (Try to translate the page with google language tools)

They say, that you are "allowed" to use the repositories from [opengeu.linuxfreedom.com]("http://opengeu.linuxfreedom.com/ubuntu")

---

### Post by brambles on 2009-06-30
Debian unstable packages which work on Karmic are available thanks to Kaethorn at

deb [http://debian.alphagemini.org/](http://debian.alphagemini.org/) unstable main

"Official" packages (but not in main archive) by the e17 packaging team are available for Jaunty at

deb [http://packages.enlightenment.org/ubuntu](http://packages.enlightenment.org/ubuntu) jaunty main extras

Cheers

---

### Post by durand on 2009-07-04
I tried the karmic packages but I get this error when trying to start E.

> durand@Deuterium ~> enlightenment_start 
E - PID=9766, do_precache=0
enlightenment: error while loading shared libraries: libeina-ver-pre-svn-01.so.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory


GDM just crashes, presumably due to the same error.

Do the packages not work on amd64?

---

### Post by nyarnon on 2009-07-05
I find it bad pratice anyway to install a cms from repo. F.I It would mean that every one would have and obey the same server setup. This will make you vunrable  for exploits. The exception to this might be groupware thats fine inside a intranet. A CMS is not.

---

### Post by brambles on 2009-07-05
Weird. apt-get install e17 should bring in the dependency on eina.

Running x86 tho':(

Check you have the right dependencies esp. libeina-svn-01

Ciao

mark@snowy:~$ dpkg -S libeina-ver-pre-svn-01.so.0
libeina-svn-01: /usr/lib/libeina-ver-pre-svn-01.so.0.0.2
libeina-svn-01: /usr/lib/libeina-ver-pre-svn-01.so.0

apt-cache depends e17
e17
  Depends: exchange
  Depends: libasound2
  Depends: libc6
  Depends: libcurl3-gnutls
  Depends: libdbus-1-3
  Depends: libecore-con-svn-01
  Depends: libecore-evas-svn-01
  Depends: libecore-fb-svn-01
  Depends: libecore-file-svn-01
  Depends: libecore-imf-svn-01
  Depends: libecore-input-svn-01
  Depends: libecore-ipc-svn-01
  Depends: libecore-job-svn-01
  Depends: libecore-svn-01
  Depends: libecore-txt-svn-01
  Depends: libecore-x-svn-01
  Depends: libedbus-svn-01
  Depends: libedje-svn-01
  Depends: libeet1
  Depends: libefreet-svn-01
  Depends: libeina-svn-01
  Depends: libembryo0
  Depends: libevas-svn-01
  Depends: libgnutls26
  Depends: libpam0g
  Depends: libx11-6
  Depends: libxext6
  Depends: libxml2
  Depends: e17-data
  Depends: libevas-engines
  Depends: libedje-bin
  Conflicts: <enlightenment>
  Replaces: emodule-mixer
    emodule0-mixer
  Replaces: emodule-systray

---

### Post by durand on 2009-07-05
Actually, libeina-svn-01 is the only eina package I have. 

```
dpkg -S libeina-ver-pre-svn-01.so.0
dpkg: *libeina-ver-pre-svn-01.so.0* not found.
```

even though that file is present in /usr/lib...

---

### Post by brambles on 2009-07-05
Assume you've tried reinstalling.

Have you tried

sudo ldconfig

?

---

### Post by durand on 2009-07-05
Yeah, didn't work :( I guess I'll just compile it myself.

---

### Post by brambles on 2009-07-05
Will have a ponder, but maybe drop a line to kaethorn, he would probably like to know if there's a problem. You can get his email at alphagemini.org.

---

### Post by durand on 2009-07-05
Sure thing.

---

### Post by Hairy_Palms on 2009-07-05
> **nyarnon said:**
> I find it bad pratice anyway to install a cms from repo. F.I It would mean that every one would have and obey the same server setup. This will make you vunrable  for exploits. The exception to this might be groupware thats fine inside a intranet. A CMS is not.

? not sure what thats got to do with enlightenment.

---

### Post by wayne_cat on 2009-07-05
> **Hairy_Palms said:**
> ? not sure what thats got to do with enlightenment.

I think the message is:  "**** ... wrong thread" :biggrin:

---

### Post by brambles on 2009-07-19
Make sure to use the version of libeina-svn-01 from the alphagemini repo.
The one in karmic causes the problem. In synaptic use the force version option to install the right one then lock (pin) it so it doesn't get automatically upgraded.

Cheers

---

### Post by wayne_cat on 2009-08-02
Is E17 usable on Karmic at the moment? I want to remove Gnome and so I need a new DE.

---

### Post by Tux Aubrey on 2009-08-05
> **wayne_cat said:**
> Is E17 usable on Karmic at the moment? I want to remove Gnome and so I need a new DE.

Frankly, I'm finding it a bit hit and miss.  The version in the "official" e17 repos (packages.enlightenment.org) totally screwed up a karmic install for me and has also been giving me some headaches with jaunty.  

I do have one working (in a VM) using the alphagemini repo version ([http://xsm.alphagemini.org/E17/repository/](http://xsm.alphagemini.org/E17/repository/)) (but you don't need to worry about the "pinning" recommended there).  Frankly, I'm not too confident that it will survive updates.  My heart goes up into my mouth every time I do sudo apt-get update.

I'm also struggling to get a decent karmic e17 install working directly from svn code - there are so many changes lately that the available scripts are not able to keep up and some odd conflicts between karmic packages and e17 dependencies also get in the way.

I am hopeful that all will settle down soon and we'll get something working reliably for karmic.  I don't think I could live without a decent e17 version of my Ubuntu!

Despite all this, I'm still running a fully up-to-date e17 on my "production machine" (which is Jaunty).  It does take a bit of hacking now and again, but the improvements and polish since June have been outstanding IMO and the beta will be well worth waiting for.

---

### Post by Tux Aubrey on 2009-09-07
Just an update on the e17 repos - they now have a karmic repo and I had few problems getting it installed on Alpha 5.

add the following repo to /etc/apt/sources.list

```
deb http://packages.enlightenment.org/ubuntu karmic main extras
```

get the key

wget [http://packages.enlightenment.org/repo.key](http://packages.enlightenment.org/repo.key)

add the key

sudo apt-key add repo.key

sudo apt-get update 

You can look at the packages available in Synaptic.

"**e17**" is the minimum installation - but fairly useless (IMO) without some modules.  You can just use "emodules-all" but that didn't work for me due to a problem with the "Tclock" module.  These are the ones I use:

> emodule-bling emodule-calendar emodule-cpu emodule-deskshow emodule-diskio emodule-edgar emodule-efm-nav emodule-efm-path emodule-efm-pathbar emodule-extramenu emodule-flame emodule-mail emodule-mem emodule-notification emodule-places emodule-screenshot emodule-taskbar emodule-tiling emodule-trash emodule-winselector emodule-wlan 

E17 is NOT compatible with the gnome-network-manager and will uninstall it.  That's why I always install my favorite replacement at the same time I install e17: 

apt-get install wicd


Theer are other goodies in the e17 repos but this is the basic set I find useful and workable.

---

