---
title: "-9.10 Beta- No Sound"
date: 2009-10-16
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by RandomP on 2009-10-16
I decided to try the beta and so I updated to it yesterday. The PC seems to run better than it did with 9.04, but for some reason, there is no sound. 

When I try watching a youtube video, I get the video, but not the audio. Do I need drivers for my Logitech speakers now or something?

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2009-10-16
Just try using different sound drivers that are already available in your system.  Go to System -> Preferences -> Sound and try different sound drivers for your output.  You don't need drivers for your speakers seeing as how all they do is amplify electrical signals from your machine.

---

### Post by RandomP on 2009-10-16
There does not really seem to be any options for a different driver. The only thing I found in output was the device Dummy Output.

[IMG]http://img63.imageshack.us/img63/7953/screenshotdz.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2009-10-16
You may have an unsupported sound card.  Try the [Ubuntu Sound Troubleshooting Guide](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting).  Tell us at what point you are having trouble.  Try listing your hardware in your signature the way mine are.

---

### Post by RandomP on 2009-10-16
Onboard audio or audio card	

    *
      Controller: AC97 audio
    *
      Location: Integrated

More stuff on this PC:
[http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?docname=c00496280&tmp_task=prodinfoCategory&lc=en&dlc=en&cc=us&lang=en&product=1130851](http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?docname=c00496280&tmp_task=prodinfoCategory&lc=en&dlc=en&cc=us&lang=en&product=1130851)

I have not really touched this PC much after buying it some years back. The only thing I changed was the hard drive to a 250GB.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2009-10-16
Do you mean USB speakers?

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2009-10-16
Thanks for that information.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2009-10-16
[This]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8043003") may help you.

---

### Post by RandomP on 2009-10-16
Apparently my system is saying that the audio is not supported.

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2009-10-16
Well did you follow the troubleshooting guide?  I'm assuming that somewhere on that list you have to check for supported hardware by the different sound drivers (alsa, pulse, oss, etc).

---

### Post by RandomP on 2009-10-16
The terminal finds it installed I think:

00:14.5 Multimedia audio controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 02)
        Subsystem: Hewlett-Packard Company Device 2a27
        Flags: bus master, 66MHz, slow devsel, latency 64, IRQ 17
        Memory at fe02a000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=256]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: ATI IXP AC97 controller
        Kernel modules: snd-atiixp

I have not found if it is supported on alsa's website.

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2009-10-16
Keep digging.  If you can't find a way to activate it, be sure to file a bug report.

---

### Post by RandomP on 2009-10-17
It also seems that my integrated graphics chip is not supported, but I am getting a decent picture through the default Ubuntu drivers (Though the colors are slightly off when viewing some images).

My integrated graphics chip is the ATi Radeon Xpress 200.
I attempted installing proprietary drivers from ATi again like I did when I first installed Ubuntu 8.10, but those drivers do not work anymore, it says it cannot install them. Problem is, the drivers are now part of AMD's legacy drivers and will not be updated anymore for newer versions of Linux. 

This is looking more and more like I will have to either go back to 9.04 or Windows XP.

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2009-10-17
ATI proprietary drivers on 9.04 won't support legacy ATI cards but 8.04 will.  I have a Hardy machine that uses an ATI x850 (which is now in a "legacy support structure) - runs beautifully.  I'm trying upgrade to 9.10 because I got a new motherboard and integrated ATI HD4200 (that is still actively supported by ATI) but for some reason I'm having a lot of trouble getting Counterstrike to work properly.  It's such a dillema - if I stay w/ the maching running 8.04 using the ATI x850 it's stable and does everything I need, but I can't use the newer features of 9.04 or 9.10.  If I want to stick w/ this 9.10 install on the new machine, I can't play Counterstrike which is a real dealbreaker for me :(

Whatever you have to do, please post and report your results so it helps the next user in your same situation.  Did you try 8.04?

---

### Post by dDaYb on 2009-10-17
hi
have no sound in 9.10 beta either

aplay -l
aplay: device_list:223: &#1085;&#1077; &#1085;&#1072;&#1081;&#1076;&#1077;&#1085;&#1086; &#1085;&#1080; &#1086;&#1076;&#1085;&#1086;&#1081; &#1079;&#1074;&#1091;&#1082;&#1086;&#1074;&#1086;&#1081; &#1082;&#1072;&#1088;&#1090;&#1099;... (in russian no sound card found)

but its [SB audigy]("http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=c322a38f9062f7da4bd8b843ad1b5d8e56210952"), worked fine in 9.04
i had [problem]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/+bug/453911") with update-initramfs while updating, is it related?

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2009-10-17
Try the sound troubleshooting guide listed at the top.

---

### Post by Greg Distortion on 2009-10-17
Try installing linux-backports-modules through synaptic package manager. Reboot afterwards.

---

### Post by RandomP on 2009-10-18
> **strAlan said:**
> ATI proprietary drivers on 9.04 won't support legacy ATI cards but 8.04 will.  I have a Hardy machine that uses an ATI x850 (which is now in a "legacy support structure) - runs beautifully.  I'm trying upgrade to 9.10 because I got a new motherboard and integrated ATI HD4200 (that is still actively supported by ATI) but for some reason I'm having a lot of trouble getting Counterstrike to work properly.  It's such a dillema - if I stay w/ the maching running 8.04 using the ATI x850 it's stable and does everything I need, but I can't use the newer features of 9.04 or 9.10.  If I want to stick w/ this 9.10 install on the new machine, I can't play Counterstrike which is a real dealbreaker for me :(

Whatever you have to do, please post and report your results so it helps the next user in your same situation.  Did you try 8.04?
It would work on 8.04 just fine I think since the drivers worked fine with 8.10 and 9.04.

> **Greg Distortion said:**
> Try installing linux-backports-modules through synaptic package manager. Reboot afterwards.

Could you be a little more specific as to which ones? There are quite a few available.

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2009-10-18
> **RandomP said:**
> It would work on 8.04 just fine I think since the drivers worked fine with 8.10 and 9.04.


I was just checking b/c my 8.04 setup worked great as well and of course I'm having a few issues w/ Karmic now :D  I'm working through it just like you are.

---

### Post by dDaYb on 2009-10-19
I found the problem -- it was in a script at /etc/initramfs-tools/scripts/local-top/cryptoroot -- where was a link to vol_id. Just removed it, everything went smooth after that. This scripts was mentioned somewhere in "HOWTO encrypted / partition", someone may have same problem ;)
Audio system works well now.

---

### Post by Phalangees on 2009-10-21
> **dDaYb said:**
> I found the problem -- it was in a script at /etc/initramfs-tools/scripts/local-top/cryptoroot -- where was a link to vol_id. Just removed it, everything went smooth after that. This scripts was mentioned somewhere in "HOWTO encrypted / partition", someone may have same problem ;)
Audio system works well now.

I have the same problem except the above solution does not work for me. The guides haven't helped either. Has anyone figured out what the problem is and how to fix it?

Thanks.

Edit: I solved my own problem. All I had to do was boot to a newer kernel. Usually I don't boot into new kernels because I have nvidia things built into my own compiled kernel which was compiled before I upgraded to 9.10. I didn't even have video problems. :D

---

