---
title: "9.04 upgrade to 9.10 BETA"
date: 2009-10-03
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by DarkMage2303 on 2009-10-03
After downloading the update to Karmic, it is unable to apply the changes to the 600 or so packages that need to be install, replaced or update.

Screenshots:



Even if I run dpkg --configure -a, I still receive the same error.

---

### Post by fela on 2009-10-03
hello, could you please post the exact output when you run:

```
sudo dpkg --configure -a
```

and

```
sudo apt-get -f install
```

Thanks.

---

### Post by DarkMage2303 on 2009-10-03
[quote="sudo dpkg --configure -a"]prohibited@scott-laptop:~$ sudo dpkg --configure -a
prohibited@scott-laptop:~$ 
[/quote]

[quote="sudo apt-get -f install"]
prohibited@scott-laptop:~$ sudo apt-get -f install
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  python-newt screen-profiles gnome-user-guide-en update-motd
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 439 not upgraded
[/quote]
:confused:

---

### Post by Litropy on 2009-10-03
I get: 

```
adam@Wayfarer:~$ sudo dpkg --configure -a
[sudo] password for adam: 
adam@Wayfarer:~$ sudo apt-get -f install
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  netbook-dkms
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 1033 not upgraded.
adam@Wayfarer:~$ 





```

---

### Post by Litropy on 2009-10-03
> **Litropy said:**
> I get: 

```
adam@Wayfarer:~$ sudo dpkg --configure -a
[sudo] password for adam: 
adam@Wayfarer:~$ sudo apt-get -f install
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  netbook-dkms
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 1033 not upgraded.
adam@Wayfarer:~$ 
```




I just ran ```
sudo apt-get autoremove
```

Now running update-manager -d, Upgrade...

Same result from update manager

Running the two commands suggested above:

```
adam@Wayfarer:~$ sudo dpkg --configure -a
adam@Wayfarer:~$ sudo apt-get -f install
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 1033 not upgraded.
adam@Wayfarer:~$ 


```

!@#$%^&*(](*,)

---

### Post by Litropy on 2009-10-03
Looks like update manager can do a partial install. Doing so.. Good thing this is my secondary machine.

---

### Post by DarkMage2303 on 2009-10-03
Litropy, if you are trying to get help would you mind creating your own topic instead of hijacking mine?

---

### Post by Litropy on 2009-10-03
Heh, I imagine this is like watching a trainwreck to you uber gurus. "What the hell?! why the hell would he do a partial install?!" OMG. OMG, here it comes..."

---

### Post by Litropy on 2009-10-03
> **DarkMage2303 said:**
> Litropy, if you are trying to get help would you mind creating your own topic instead of hijacking mine?

Good idea. Will do. Good luck.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-10-03
Karmic is a version you really don't wanna upgrade. There's a new GRUB and lots of changes that won't install on an upgrade. Back-up your important files (if you don't have a separate /home partition) and do a fresh install, you'll be glad you did.

---

### Post by DarkMage2303 on 2009-10-04
Downloading Karmic now, I downloaded 580 MB at 350kb/s, then it slowed down to 20-35kb/s and ended up taking a few hours :(

---

### Post by fela on 2009-10-04
> **theozzlives said:**
> Karmic is a version you really don't wanna upgrade. There's a new GRUB and lots of changes that won't install on an upgrade. Back-up your important files (if you don't have a separate /home partition) and do a fresh install, you'll be glad you did.

+1 Agreed.

Do what this guy said and you'll have zero problems. Hopefully.

---

### Post by legolas_w on 2009-10-10
> **theozzlives said:**
> Karmic is a version you really don't wanna upgrade. There's a new GRUB and lots of changes that won't install on an upgrade. Back-up your important files (if you don't have a separate /home partition) and do a fresh install, you'll be glad you did.

What if I download the Installation CD and upgrade using the Cd instead of internet?

I just can not cope with re-installing the OS. I want to upgrade to Karmic, and  get all Karmic features without doing a fresh install.


Thanks.

---

### Post by Longinus00 on 2009-10-10
Silly question, but have you tried running ```
$ sudo apt-get upgrade
``` from the command line and seeing what it prints out?

---

