---
title: "2.6.31-10 kernel problem"
date: 2009-09-20
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by DevilInPgh on 2009-09-20
I have just upgraded from Jaunty to Karmic Alpha 6.  When I tried to boot into the new 2.6.31-10 kernel that was included with Karmic, I ended up getting a flickering screen in the bootloader, which eventually froze at text login (gdm did not start up).  Using the latest kernel that was in Jaunty (2.6.28-15), I was able to successfully boot into Karmic.  Has anyone else experienced this problem with the latest Karmic kernel?

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-09-21
OK, so you're booted into Karmic? Post the output from terminal of:

```
cat /etc/issue 
```

and:

```
uname -a
```

and maybe:

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-09-21
OK, this is interesting.  Another file I had no clue about.  I admit that the ones I am clueless about out number the other kind.

What the devil does the "\n \l" business mean?

I checked 9.04, 9.10 and Mandriva2009.  Mandriva may have a file like this but it certainly does not have an /etc/issue file.  I am intrigued.

---

### Post by cdEWoozy on 2009-09-21
> **ranch hand said:**
> OK, this is interesting.  Another file I had no clue about.  I admit that the ones I am clueless about out number the other kind.

What the devil does the "\n \l" business mean?

I checked 9.04, 9.10 and Mandriva2009.  Mandriva may have a file like this but it certainly does not have an /etc/issue file.  I am intrigued.

```

ISSUE ESCAPES
       The issue-file (/etc/issue or the file set with the -f option) may con&#8208;
       tain certain escape codes to display the system  name,  date  and  time
       etc.  All  escape codes consist of a backslash (\) immediately followed
       by one of the letters explained below.
[...]
       l      Insert the name of the current tty line.
[...]
       n      Insert the nodename of the machine, also known as the hostname.
```

There are more codes than can be used, they are listed in the manpage of getty(8), which is referenced in the manpage of issue(5) :)

---

### Post by element103 on 2009-09-21
I'm in the same boat.  Just decided to upgrade to Karmic and the screen flickers when it tries to boot in 2.6.31-10.  The flickering subsides after a bit, but gdm and xsplash and whatnot never show up.  Flickering comes back every once in a while after I log into the text terminal.

cat /etc/issue
Ubuntu karmic (development branch) \n \l

uname -a
Linux funcooker 2.6.28-15-generic #49-Ubuntu SMP Tue Aug 18 19:25:34 UTC 2009 x86_64 GNU/Linux

I'm not sure if this is related, but when I was doing the upgrade the upgrade-manager stalled at update-initramfs for several hours so I killed it and ran it manually on reboot, along with a aptitude dist-upgrade.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-09-21
> **cdEWoozy said:**
> ```

ISSUE ESCAPES
       The issue-file (/etc/issue or the file set with the -f option) may con&#8208;
       tain certain escape codes to display the system  name,  date  and  time
       etc.  All  escape codes consist of a backslash (\) immediately followed
       by one of the letters explained below.
[...]
       l      Insert the name of the current tty line.
[...]
       n      Insert the nodename of the machine, also known as the hostname.
```There are more codes than can be used, they are listed in the manpage of getty(8), which is referenced in the manpage of issue(5) :)
Thanks a bunch, just lurking around "sampling" interesting looking threads and ran into this.

I have enough problems with the ATI issues around booting (7 of 9 variations on 9.10 are working correctly - other 2 so-so).  But need to just blow it off once in a while.  Other peoples troubles make me feel better an occasionally I even learn something.

Thanks a bunch.

---

### Post by element103 on 2009-09-21
turns out 2.6.31 broke some nvidia drivers.  the [190.32 beta driver]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_amd64_190.32.html") fixed it for me.

---

### Post by DevilInPgh on 2009-09-22
Yeah, my outputs are the same as for element103.  As for drivers, the link element103 gave is for 64-bit machines only.  My box is 32-bit.  Moreover, updating the NVIDIA driver did not fix this.  I have also noticed that a previous kernel in Karmic, 2.6.30-2, seems to be working fine.

---

