---
title: "2.6.31-13 Pyscodelic Man I can,t read a thing"
date: 2009-10-09
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-09
I updated an upgraded 9.04 to 9.10 install just now.  I am using the generic driver on that version of 9.10.

I rebooted.  The xsplash and GDM being really strange amused me.  I was able to log in by memory of how things worked (did have to click on user to get password prompt - "enter" did not work to do that).  Logged in fine.

I was not as amused when I got to the desktop and it, too, is really strange.  Can't read a thing and the icons are hard to find and then you really need to cursor over them to check where you are (that you can read).

I decided not to update the rest of my 32bit stuff yet.

If anyone has an idea I may just give it a whack.   Maybe I could read it in xterm.  I have not tried recovery either.

I have to go out for a bit and check for weather damage.  A little snow and a 40 degree drop from yesterday.

LET THE FUN BEGIN

---

### Post by Chilly_Willy on 2009-10-09
*When I update it asked if it should make a /boot/grub/menu.lst, but Karmic is using Grub2 which uses /boot/grub/grub.cfg. 2.6.31-13 doens't show up in the Grub2 menu.*


Edit: my bad, I install startupmanager, which in turn installed grub en deinstalled grub2...

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-09
Nope, can't do it.  Why have all these 9.10s on here if not to break them.

The first was a synaptic (Smart Upgrade) update.

I am doing another 32bit upgraded 9.04 after snooping (remotely) on the first 9.10s log files.  I am not sure that this has to do with the kernal.  It may be device kit.

This update (running currently) is an apt-get upgrade.  It, as expected, held back the kernal.  We will see.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-09
Well, I am sure that it is not the kernal.  The second 9.10, with out the kernal update  acts exactly the same.

While I was snooping remotely in the first screwed OS, I was looking at the /etc/X11/xorg.conf files of different 9.10s.  The more recent ones do not have that file (the old ones do due to the fun we had with the looping login with ATI).  I renamed the bugger in that screwed OS and now I am writing this in that OS.

Be sure to get rid of the proprietory driver before getting rid of the xorg file.

So, what ever the cause is, get rid of the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file and your OS should work.

---

