---
title: "Help with stupid printing problem."
date: 2009-10-15
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-10-15
Can anyone help with a printing problem I have in Karmic. 

I am unable to print to a network printer on a shared server in Karmic. While trying to sort this out I thought I would try to tidy up my printers on the local machine.

Currently my printers configuration looks like the attachment. These are all the same printer, but somehow, due to rebuild on the server / host I have duplicate copies. None of them work.

I thought it would be simple to delete them but -- no options in the Ubuntu menu nor in the CUPs application seems to allow me to delete a printer.

I decided to go to the command line to do it - however 

/etc/cups/printers.conf looks like this -
> # Printer configuration file for CUPS v1.3.9
# Written by cupsd on 2009-08-27 10:37
/etc/printcap looks like this

> # This file was automatically generated by cupsd(8) from the
# /etc/cups/printers.conf file.  All changes to this file
# will be lost.
HP_Photosmart_C4100_series_USB_MY76JJ113P04J7_HPLIP|HP Photosmart C4100 series:rm=Mesh:rp=HP_Photosmart_C4100_series_USB_MY76JJ113P04J7_HPLIP:
Photosmart-C4100-series|HP Photosmart C4100 series:rm=Mesh:rp=Photosmart-C4100-series:
Photosmart-C4100-series2|HP Photosmart C4100 series:rm=Mesh:rp=Photosmart-C4100-series2:
[EMAIL="Photosmart-C4100-series@vmserver.local"]Photosmart-C4100-series@vmserver.local[/EMAIL]|HP Photosmart C4100 series:rm=Mesh:rp=Photosmart-C4100-series@vmserver.local:
All the documentation suggests that these two files are used to define printers and queues ......
So the basic question is How do I delete a printer?

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-10-16
bump

---

### Post by todak on 2009-10-16
Click here: [http://localhost:631/](http://localhost:631/) (this is NOT a website, rather it is the CUPS interface local to your computer, rather like the interface for logging in to your router) then click on the **Printers** tab and then select the printer you wish to delete. Under the **Administration** drop-box will be an entry to delete the printer.

---

### Post by mdurham on 2009-10-16
> **Peter09 said:**
> All the documentation suggests that these two files are used to define printers and queues ......
So the basic question is How do I delete a printer?

Have you tried right-click delete?

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-10-16
Tried both of the solutions above, neither work. The Cups and right click options are greyed out.

---

