---
title: "a6"
date: 2009-09-23
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2009-09-23
some feed back on the alpha6 for 9.10 how is it going the a5  broke mine and other computer x was toast.had to reinstall 9.04 no big deal just like to  test new version i had absolutely no problem  with 9,04 after a4

---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2009-09-23
come on  gang some imput.

---

### Post by Nickedynick on 2009-09-23
It seems pretty stable to me so far, but there's every chance that whatever tweaks that are being done with regards to boot performance could mess things up again before the beta. Having said that, the only way to know if it'll work for your config is to try (as long as you're ok with things behaving strangely occasionally).

---

### Post by Ewingo401 on 2009-09-23
Working just fine for me so far.  I will say that at this point Jaunty seems to boot faster, but not by a whole lot.  Other than that all is well.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-09-23
I just installed another variation of A6 and had no trouble at all.  This was from the A6 LiveCD from when it was released.

The LiveCD won't boot to the desktop on my box so just hit "install ubuntu".  When done it would not boot, looping gdm.  Booted to xterm and updated and the bugger booted right up after that.  This surprised me as for some time now those of us with ATI cards have had to edit the xorg.conf.

Got medibuntu and restricted extras and gnome-alsamixer and have tunes and everything is just peachy.

---

### Post by Reiger on 2009-09-23
Pro's (this is about Kubuntu, mind you):
[list="1"]
[*]Grub 1.97 looks nicer than the old one (thinner font) and...
[*]<5 secs from Grub 1.97 to login screen. Gee all EXT4 makes a difference. Or is it the ...
[*]KDE 4.3. Air theme, much better & refined than previous KDE 4.x series. But let's not forget that...
[*]XFi sound works. Not quite there yet (not everything works) but I can at least play music using what can only be described as "the driver of the future" (i.e.: not the unmaintained blob found at creative's website).
... Which is especially useful since...
[/list]
Cons:
[list="1"]
[*]The ASUS USB-N11 adapter still doesn't work out of the box. :( It's nothing to do with the drivers not being there, but everything to do with the Device ID's not being among those claimed by the driver.
[/list]

Embarrassment/Fail on my part:
[list="1"]
[*]I installed grub 2. Update-grub2 brought back Vista, but it can't reanimate the older interpid->jaunty->karmic upgraded system. I guess it calls for some more manual surgery if/when I figure out what to edit.
[*]I wiped network manager to find that (downloaded via laptop) wicd has unsatisfied dependencies after the conflicts (network manager) are removed: no python-gtk2. This means I'll have to download the relevant kubuntu packages, install them then hope I can configure my WPA2-PSK connection with them ... Manually downloading the boatload of gtk assorted dependencies (apparently I don't have the GIMP, not that I care particularly much about that but if I had had the GIMP I would also have the GTK dependencies of wicd).
[/list]

---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2009-09-24
thank ya'll for the replies. going to do it again hopefully this time the alpha doesnt break my puter

---

### Post by steev182 on 2009-09-24
Works nicely for me - except for a couple of points:

-Wireless went up the spout after an update earlier today, but an update soon after fixed it.
-My video card driver module won't load.

---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2009-09-24
well just installed a6 and everything is still working

---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2009-09-24
used the command  line to force ubuntu to install all the currently upgrades

---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2009-09-24
last update taking forever

---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2009-09-24
install okay no problems

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-09-24
Yup, everything seems to be working right now, might limp a bit, but it works.

---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2009-09-25
just updated again b6 working great like the way 9.04 beta after b2 did. no problems

---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2009-09-25
more updates new kernel

---

