---
title: "2.6.31 RC2 Released!!"
date: 2009-07-04
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by woodbj on 2009-07-04
> It's out there. Larger than I'd like, but the bulk of the changes are due 
to some late arch updates (MIPS, and powerpc documentation).

There's also a fair amount of somewhat scary i915 updates, but the bulk of 
that is the new displayport support which shouldn't regress (but with some 
i2c api changes and mode fixes to round it up).

There's also an intel-iommu merge that was larger than I hoped, but it 
fixes bugs that weren't fixable without some major cleanups (handling PAE 
high pages correctly on x86-32).

Other than that? Various changes all over. Drivers, networking, 
filesystems, perf-counters (more archictectures supported, but also some 
extensions), and yes, regression fixes.

I'm going to be a bit stricter about merge requests now. I really want 
-rc3 (and later) to be smaller than this.

So please do try it out, and remind people about regressions both new and 
old, ok?

		Linus
[http://lkml.org/lkml/2009/7/4/76](http://lkml.org/lkml/2009/7/4/76)

---

### Post by budluva04 on 2009-07-04
good to hear :P

haha i just got .31-1 sorted...how often can we expect to see a new rc?

---

### Post by buzzmandt on 2009-07-04
how long before it's repo'd?

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-07-04
Good to hear it--as for "how often?"--fast enough to keep everyone on their toes....:p
As for repo'd---my guess would be late next week.......

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2009-07-04
How will this effect the patch that was need for the latest nvidia driver 185.18.14 w/2.6.31.1?:-k

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-07-04
Not sure--the patch was on the driver--so I would tend to not think it being a problem.....

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2009-07-04
> **buzzmandt said:**
> how long before it's repo'd?

If you're anxious to test, you'll probably find it packaged [here]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/") a little sooner than through an official update.

The mainline kernel probably won't work with restricted drivers, though.

---

### Post by Eclipse. on 2009-07-05
> **psyke83 said:**
> If you're anxious to test, you'll probably find it packaged [here]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/") a little sooner than through an official update.

The mainline kernel probably won't work with restricted drivers, though.

It will be there within a day or two but thats a vanilla kernel with no ubuntu patches applied (uses the same kernel config though).Very good for testing.

EDIT: *yawns* its there already.Although the i386 build failed.:(

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc2/]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc2/")

---

### Post by Joe_Bishop on 2009-07-05
Current 2.6.31 is extremely unstable for me, frequently hangs up during high disk usage. How can I see what's happened?

---

### Post by cmost on 2009-07-05
> **Eclipse. said:**
> It will be there within a day or two but thats a vanilla kernel with no ubuntu patches applied (uses the same kernel config though).Very good for testing.

EDIT: *yawns* its there already.Although the i386 build failed.:(

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc2/]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc2/")

I actually prefer a vanilla kernel myself as I don't use the restricted modules on my system anyway.  A vanilla kernel makes it a little easier to use my own compiled modules.

---

### Post by plun on 2009-07-05
> **tad1073 said:**
> How will this effect the patch that was need for the latest nvidia driver 185.18.14 w/2.6.31.1?:-k

I just installed RC2 from Ubuntu Mainline and the patch works just fine.
(Verified on 64 bit.)

---

### Post by Rollin Coal on 2009-07-05
> **Eclipse. said:**
> It will be there within a day or two but thats a vanilla kernel with no ubuntu patches applied (uses the same kernel config though).Very good for testing.

EDIT: *yawns* its there already.Although the i386 build failed.:(

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc2/]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.31-rc2/")


1st time posting here, ive noticed some of the recent builds havnt been including the i386 files.  if the build fails do they just skip it?

also, about the vanilla builds, are they different than the ones that are installed during an update?

Thanks

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2009-07-06
> **Rollin Coal said:**
> also, about the vanilla builds, are they different than the ones that are installed during an update?

Yes. As stated by user Eclipse. those builds don't have distribution specific patches applied (vanilla kernels are those build from the unchanged sources from kernel.org).

---

### Post by Regenweald on 2009-07-06
glad to see display port support in there. Not sure when I'll be able to afford display port hardware, but this is something i have been wondering about. usb3.0 and this, glad to witness how forward thinking the linux kernel developers are.

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2009-07-06
is 2.6.31-1.14 in the repos RC2?

---

### Post by rudenko_ruslan on 2009-07-06
> **Slug71 said:**
> is 2.6.31-1.14 in the repos RC2?
I don't think so. Check [this page]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=ubuntu/ubuntu-karmic.git;a=commitdiff;h=1b6da3b21c485375d9c5743232c8e454fc9f5d86") on kernel.ubuntu.com

---

### Post by tim1 on 2009-07-06
It's in the repos now

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2009-07-06
:~/Desktop$ uname -a
Linux thomthom 2.6.31-2-generic #15-Ubuntu SMP Mon Jul 6 01:13:01 UTC 2009 x86_64 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by plun on 2009-07-06
> **tim1 said:**
> It's in the repos now

Yup

[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/karmic-changes/2009-July/003622.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/karmic-changes/2009-July/003622.html)

> linux (2.6.31-2.15) karmic; urgency=low

  [ Andy Whitcroft ]

  * SAUCE: default ATI Radeon KMS to off until userspace catches up
  * [Config] Update configs following rebase to 2.6.31-rc2
  * [Config] update ports configs following update to 2.6.31-rc2

  [ Luke Yelavich ]

  * [Config] powerpc - Disable CONFIG_RDS

  [ Matt Zimmerman ]

  * Rename linux-doc-PKGVER to linux-doc and clean up its description
    - LP: #382115

  [ Upstream Kernel Changes ]

  **_* rebased to mainline 2.6.31-rc2_**


---

### Post by Milos_SD on 2009-07-06
Hi. Anyone having problems with k3b, brasero or any burning program reckognize your burning device? I compiled 2.6.31-rc2 from kernel.org and I can burn discs only if I start burning program with sudo. As normal user, programs don't reckognize my burning device. :(

---

### Post by zika on 2009-07-06
> **Milos_SD said:**
> Hi. Anyone having problems with k3b, brasero or any burning program reckognize your burning device? I compiled 2.6.31-rc2 from kernel.org and I can burn discs only if I start burning program with sudo. As normal user, programs don't reckognize my burning device. :(I think I have the same issue but in Gnome... with 2.6.31-{999-generic,-2-generic} ...

---

### Post by wayne_cat on 2009-07-06
```
linux (2.6.31-2.15) karmic; urgency=low

  [ Andy Whitcroft ]

  * SAUCE: default ATI Radeon KMS to off until userspace catches up
```Great ... yet another kernel that I can only boot with a ridiculous 640x480 console resolution. :roll:

---

### Post by zika on 2009-07-06
> **wayne_cat said:**
> ```
linux (2.6.31-2.15) karmic; urgency=low

  [ Andy Whitcroft ]

  * SAUCE: default ATI Radeon KMS to off until userspace catches up
```Great ... yet another kernel that I can only boot with a ridiculous 640x480 console resolution. :roll:Create ```
sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/radeon-kms.conf
```containing```
options radeon modeset=1
```line. I think that is it ...

---

### Post by wayne_cat on 2009-07-06
> **zika said:**
> Create ```
sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/radeon-kms.conf
```containing```
options radeon modeset=1
```line. I think that is it ...

I get a nice resolution on my notebook ...but ...

from Xorg.0.log ... no DRI ... no Compiz ;)

```
(II) [drm] DRM interface version 1.0
(EE) [drm] Could not set DRM device bus ID.
(EE) RADEON(0): [dri] DRIScreenInit failed.  Disabling DRI.
```and without Compiz:

```
Xorg:  about 15% CPU usage
metacity: about 20% CPU usage
```I'm still using 2.6.30-9-generic. It was the last version that supported a vga=xxx option
in the kernel boot line.

```
title           Ubuntu karmic (development branch), kernel 2.6.30-9-generic
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.30-9-generic root=/dev/sda3 ro quiet vga=0x354
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.30-9-generic
quiet
```

---

### Post by Hobbes on 2009-07-06
> **Milos_SD said:**
> Hi. Anyone having problems with k3b, brasero or any burning program reckognize your burning device? I compiled 2.6.31-rc2 from kernel.org and I can burn discs only if I start burning program with sudo. As normal user, programs don't reckognize my burning device. :(

Yes, I also am getting this issue.  I'm not even sure how you got it to burn with sudo.  I tried sudo brasero with no luck as well.  -rc1 and -rc2 kernels from Ubuntu repository.  Haven't gone back and tried .30 yet.

---

### Post by Milos_SD on 2009-07-06
> **Hobbes said:**
> Yes, I also am getting this issue.  I'm not even sure how you got it to burn with sudo.  I tried sudo brasero with no luck as well.  -rc1 and -rc2 kernels from Ubuntu repository.  Haven't gone back and tried .30 yet.

On 2.6.30.1 everything is working. And I didn't tryed to burn any disk with sudo k3b or sudo brasero. I just tryed to see if burner will be reckognized, and it is. As normal user, k3b poped up a warrning that I don't have a burning device, and brasero didn't show any device when I wanted to burn ISO to a dvd disc (with sudo everything is as it should be).

---

### Post by inportb on 2009-07-07
> **wayne_cat said:**
> ```
linux (2.6.31-2.15) karmic; urgency=low

  [ Andy Whitcroft ]

  * SAUCE: default ATI Radeon KMS to off until userspace catches up
```Great ... yet another kernel that I can only boot with a ridiculous 640x480 console resolution. :roll:

y'know, I'd rather have compositing than smooth boot ;)

---

### Post by xebian on 2009-07-07
> **inportb said:**
> y'know, I'd rather have compositing than smooth boot ;)

It has been updated to 31-2.16.  Didn't see any composting problem with ATI xpress 200m & x1250

---

### Post by inportb on 2009-07-07
> **xebian said:**
> It has been updated to 31-2.16.  Didn't see any composting problem with ATI xpress 200m & x1250

indeed.

---

### Post by wayne_cat on 2009-07-07
> **inportb said:**
> indeed.

True ... because KMS is disabled for ATI cards ... with KMS you would have problems ;)

---

### Post by zika on 2009-07-07
> **wayne_cat said:**
> True ... because KMS is disabled for ATI cards ... with KMS you would have problems ;)Not necessarily ... ;) Use KMS PPA for ATI ... ;)

---

### Post by wayne_cat on 2009-07-07
> **zika said:**
> Not necessarily ... ;) Use KMS PPA for ATI ... ;)

These?

```
https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/radeon-kms
```

---

### Post by zika on 2009-07-07
> **wayne_cat said:**
> These?

```
https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/radeon-kms
```
;)

---

### Post by wayne_cat on 2009-07-07
Fortunately I have enough space on my disc for another Karmic installation.

I will give it a try. :cool:

---

### Post by scradock on 2009-07-07
> **inportb said:**
> y'know, I'd rather have compositing than smooth boot ;)
The current 2.6.31-2 kernel includes the facility for modesetting on ATI Radeon, but the package has it turned OFF by default, because when 2.6.31-1 came out people found that it would not boot to X (vertical lines). 

Now we can indeed switch KMS on using the kernel-line option radeon.modeset=1 or the config file containing radeon modeset=1, but doing that leads us back to the vertical lines instead of boot. The failure to start dri is logged in Xorg.0.log.

Without KMS, the 2.6.31 kernels from the repos work fine with compiz, and are giving similar gtkperf speeds to 2.6.30-10 for me on a Radeon Xpress 200M (5955) chipset.

So don't bother trying to turn it on, inport! Doesn't work at the moment, apparently..

---

### Post by inportb on 2009-07-07
Thanks for the tip, scradock. I'm curious though, so I shall try with the kernel option :p

---

### Post by zika on 2009-07-08
> **scradock said:**
> The current 2.6.31-2 kernel includes the facility for modesetting on ATI Radeon, but the package has it turned OFF by default, because when 2.6.31-1 came out people found that it would not boot to X (vertical lines). 

Now we can indeed switch KMS on using the kernel-line option radeon.modeset=1 or the config file containing radeon modeset=1, but doing that leads us back to the vertical lines instead of boot. The failure to start dri is logged in Xorg.0.log.

Without KMS, the 2.6.31 kernels from the repos work fine with compiz, and are giving similar gtkperf speeds to 2.6.30-10 for me on a Radeon Xpress 200M (5955) chipset.

So don't bother trying to turn it on, inport! Doesn't work at the moment, apparently..I know that it is not "official". I have rv635 engine (2.6.31-999-generic) and I know that KMS doesn't work for it yet. But I get gtkpref 3.8 instead of 4.9 (without it) so I think it is OK for me to use it ... :) I am surely not sure what is happening but as a "dumb user" I choose a set-up that is faster. My choice ... :) That is the reason I did not give ppa URL ... :) I left it for other party to find it himself which just happened. Again, choice is yours ...

---

