---
title: "2.6.31-9 is in"
date: 2009-08-31
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by xebian on 2009-08-31
just updated to 2.6.31-9 and looking good.  I don't see any -9 release from kernel.org though.

This is the 2nd time Ubuntu is ahead of the kernel release starting with the 8th.  Any reason why?

---

### Post by lithorus on 2009-09-01
It's still -rc8 kernel. From the changelog :

> Rebased against 2.6.31-rc8 plus some inotify regression patches:
    up through git://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux-2.6.git
    adda766193ea1cf3137484a9521972d080d0b7af.


---

### Post by Jim March on 2009-09-01
I'm blocked from even getting the -8 kernel, never mind -9.  I'm on 64bit and wasn't able to use -7 because that's the one that choked hard on whole-disk-encryption and/or LVMs.

Now I can't even get the update manager to run.  Sigh.  Guess I'll wait for the Alpha5 and do a clean install - again, after doing so for A4.

Canonical is just hell on alpha testers.

---

### Post by Regenweald on 2009-09-01
> **Jim March said:**
> 
Canonical is just hell on alpha testers.

Alphas are just hell on alpha testers, as they should be :P

---

### Post by gradinaruvasile on 2009-09-01
> **lithorus said:**
> It's still -rc8 kernel. From the changelog :

Use the main servers repositories, there u will find the -9 version.

---

### Post by jppr on 2009-09-01
> **Jim March said:**
> I'm blocked from even getting the -8 kernel, never mind -9.  I'm on 64bit and wasn't able to use -7 because that's the one that choked hard on whole-disk-encryption and/or LVMs.

Now I can't even get the update manager to run.  Sigh.  Guess I'll wait for the Alpha5 and do a clean install - again, after doing so for A4.

Canonical is just hell on alpha testers.

use main server repositories , update-manager is updated and i new kernel works fine

---

### Post by taavikko on 2009-09-01
> **Jim March said:**
> 
Now I can't even get the update manager to run.  Sigh.  Guess I'll wait for the Alpha5 and do a clean install - again, after doing so for A4.

Canonical is just hell on alpha testers.

If update-manager doesn't work, you would resort to?
Yes, that's right, good ol apt.
"aptitude update && aptitude full-upgrade"

---

### Post by nhasian on 2009-09-01
update-manager was broken, but it fixed itself after today's upgrade.  I'm also on 64 bit karmic and 2.6.31-8 borked my machine and i had to restore from clonezilla.

---

### Post by Joe_Bishop on 2009-09-01
It's painfully slow again with xl2tpd: about 30 times slower than 2.6.30. Only first two RCs were normal with it (but they were extremely unstable, core dumps after at max 5 minutes of massive IO), 3-9 are damn slow.

---

### Post by Tompalaz on 2009-09-01
After this update gnome crashes. 
> tomas@MacintoshLinux:~$ gnome-panel

(gnome-panel:7347): libglade-WARNING **: could not find glade file '/usr/share/gnome-panel/glade/clock.glade'

** ERROR **: /usr/share/gnome-panel/glade/clock.glade not found; this installation is incorrect.
aborting...
Trace/breakpoint trap (core dumped)

---

### Post by taavikko on 2009-09-01
> **Tompalaz said:**
> After this update gnome crashes.```
tomas@MacintoshLinux:~$ gnome-panel

(gnome-panel:7347): libglade-WARNING **: could not find glade file '/usr/share/gnome-panel/glade/clock.glade'

** ERROR **: /usr/share/gnome-panel/glade/clock.glade not found; this installation is incorrect.
aborting...
Trace/breakpoint trap (core dumped)
```

Unrelated issue. Start a new thread on gnome-panel.
It's most probably caused by the fact that *-data was upgraded, and the gnome-panle is still missing the newer version.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2009-09-01
Dist-upgrade gnome-panel crashed 9.10 Karmic Alpha 4  Sept 1  3am PST

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel/+bug/422483](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel/+bug/422483)

---

### Post by froggyswamp on 2009-09-01
The update seems to (finally) have fixed the "sreadahead" issue which kept the CPU loaded after login.
Next we need to get read of the other 2 (but smaller) annoyances: not to ask the user to mount a drive (prompting for password) and not telling the user that he has faulty devices.

edit: the "restart/shutdown" menu items have been removed from the system menu to the user's icon, "a la Jaunty", which I regret.

---

### Post by Jim March on 2009-09-01
I've done a command line update.  Didn't help the "unable to update kernel" issue.

Can somebody point me to a URL for the latest kernels?

---

### Post by trulan on 2009-09-01
Running this kernel, the items on the taskbars flash on and off, as if it is trying to load them and can't.  It does the 'authenticating drives' thing, but never gets far enough to tell me my hard disk is failing.  Gnome is non-functional, but I can drop to a TTY and operate from there.  AMD64 architecture.

---

### Post by taavikko on 2009-09-01
> **trulan said:**
> Running this kernel, the items on the taskbars flash on and off, as if it is trying to load them and can't.  It does the 'authenticating drives' thing, but never gets far enough to tell me my hard disk is failing.  Gnome is non-functional, but I can drop to a TTY and operate from there.  AMD64 architecture.

It's not related to kernel.
use main server for updates, there's anewer version for gnome-panel that fixes it.

---

### Post by trulan on 2009-09-01
OK thanks!  I wondered what the gnome-panel bug mentioned earlier was all about, now I know.   Thanks again!

Edit:  Here's a thread on it.  This issue does appear to be resolved:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1255230](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1255230)

---

### Post by plun on 2009-09-06
Upstream RC9 is released....

> I know I said I'd just release the final 2.6.31 when I was done diving,
but there were more pull requests while I was away than I'm comfortable
with at this stage. So I'm doing an -rc9 to let it simmer for a couple of
days and get some last-minute testing before doing the final release.

In particular, inotify was still broken in -rc8, and while several people
have verified that the -git trees fixed it, doing an -rc9 to get wider
checking is a good idea. We've also hopefully -finally- fixed that last
annoying pty buffering bug, with Mikael Pettersson confirming that the
problems he saw are fixed.

There are also some (too big at this stage, oh well) updates to DM and a
couple of media drivers, and some Intel KMS fixes.

And then a random smattering of one-liners.

Go wild, and please give this a final round of testing.

Linus

[http://www.pubbs.net/kernel/200909/75584/](http://www.pubbs.net/kernel/200909/75584/)

Ubuntu Mainline:
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa...e/v2.6.31-rc9/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa...e/v2.6.31-rc9/)

Testing.......

---

