---
title: "9.10 beta broke my network"
date: 2009-10-05
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-10-05
I can't get i386 or AMD64 to access the network, I tried:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/samba start
```
it says [OK] but still nothing, no printers, nothing.

EDIT: I can ping back and forth and mount via Terminal but nothing shows up in Nautilus.

Correction, I can mount my Jaunty server via Terminal, or Nautilus (using IP, not hostname) but not the betas.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-10-05
Well, I have no icons in my Network folder except "Windows Network". If I click on that, no workgroups. I can, however, type the IP or host name and access shares. Any ideas?

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-10-07
bump

---

### Post by taavikko on 2009-10-07
I have my desktop 9.10 KDE running samba sharing 1 folder.
And I can access it with nautilus on my laptop 9.10 without any problems.

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-10-07
Make sure that winbind is installed.

```
sudo apt-get install winbind
```

and edit /etc/nsswitch.conf

so that the host line looks like this

> hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] wins dns mdns4


you will need to restart winbind

```
sudo /etc/init.d winbind restart
```

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-10-08
> **Peter09 said:**
> Make sure that winbind is installed.

```
sudo apt-get install winbind
```

and edit /etc/nsswitch.conf

so that the host line looks like this



you will need to restart winbind

```
sudo /etc/init.d winbind restart
```

Didn't work, hmmmf

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-10-08
If its installed properly you should be able to ping a macine on the network by name

```
ping <a host name>
```

---

### Post by yellerKat on 2009-10-08
Neither my two Jaunty machines nor my Karmic i386 can see the Karmic AMD64 hostname; but the two Jaunties can see the Karmic i386's.

Oddly enough the Netgear router picks up the Karmic AMD64 hostname.

(Scratches head)

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-10-09
> **yellerKat said:**
> Neither my two Jaunty machines nor my Karmic i386 can see the Karmic AMD64 hostname; but the two Jaunties can see the Karmic i386's.

Oddly enough the Netgear router picks up the Karmic AMD64 hostname.

(Scratches head)

I've been using and testing Ubuntu since Gutsy, I've NEVER seen a Beta in this bad of shape!

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-10-12
bump

---

### Post by yellerKat on 2009-10-13
The folder share created by right-clicking on 'Desktop' in Nautilus was (and still is) persistently reverting to lower-case: 'desktop'. By adding a few lines to /etc/samba/smb.conf (through the GUI system-config-samba) this seems to have resolved *my* hostname issues at any rate.

```

[Desktop]
	path = /home/xxx/Desktop
	writeable = yes
;	browseable = yes
	guest ok = yes

```

ED: I'm using nfs for networking, but sharing a folder through Nautilus seems to invoke samba.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-10-14
I'm just going to suffer through and do a clean install of the final copy of Karmic (unless the devs come out with a fix beforehand).

---

### Post by mitchellcipriano on 2009-10-16
I am having a similar problem. I cannot see most of the workgroup shares, but one server shows up. If it try to connect to it I get the message: "Failed to retrieve share list from server." I get the same message if I try to connect directly.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-10-17
> **mitchellcipriano said:**
> I am having a similar problem. I cannot see most of the workgroup shares, but one server shows up. If it try to connect to it I get the message: "Failed to retrieve share list from server." I get the same message if I try to connect directly.

Any ideas?

hmmm... I can connect by typing the address, but with the "pretty" icons and sometimes I get that message if I click on "Windows Networks". I haven't figured it out yet, just hoping it's resolved by RC.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-10-20
Well I got the idea to reboot my Jaunty server and my network is back (kinda). Funny I read that Linux (unlike Windows) didn't have to be rebooted periodically. I guess since I have Karmic on my other two machines, I had to refresh the network.

---

