---
title: "9.10 RC: radeon (r100) + compiz = big fail (&lt;-- artifacts)"
date: 2009-10-25
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by buellman on 2009-10-25
Hi,

I wonder if I'm the only one who has big problems with the radeon-driver and compiz? To be more specific: my IBM X31 has a radeon r100 built in.

I just tested the 9.10 RC desktop-CD and there are artifacts all over the screen. If I disable desktop-effects it looks normal. But as activated effects are default this seems to be a big fail.
To show you what I mean I made some screenshots.
Rather worse looks disabling compiz and activating the effects from metacity: I don't have a screenshot as it is impossible to make one but it looks like... someone from scotland puts his kilt over the whole desktop ;)

I am alone with this problem?

Greets. Buellman

---

### Post by rogerdean on 2009-10-25
I've just put my kilt over my whole desktop. Less than useful

---

### Post by PaulInBHC on 2009-10-25
I have a Radeon 7000 and have the plaid problem with System monitor and sound volume window.

I started a thread but nothing yet. I installed and uninstalled both the ATI open source package and the System monitor. Nothing helps yet.

---

### Post by buellman on 2009-10-25
@ rogerdean
lol... I mean the design ;)

@ PaulInBHC
Ok... at least I'm not alone.

BTW: should KMS work with a radeon r100? I tried to activate it by entering radeon.modeset=1 in grub but all I get is a blackscreen and no hdd-activity.

---

### Post by PaulInBHC on 2009-10-25
I just rebooted and the system monitor is now working. I think I needed to restart after uninstalling the ati package.

---

### Post by Rob2687 on 2009-10-25
Remove the quiet and splash option from the grub boot to see where it dies.

---

### Post by buellman on 2009-10-25
@ Rob2687:
I removed quiet und spash from bootoptions and added radeon.modeset=1. There is some text... pretty fast scrolling a few lines that I can not read because of the speed. Than comes the blackscreen.

Hmmm...

Ps: Maybe I should mention that my Notebook has encrypted / and swap. Could that be a Problem? /boot is not encrypted.
PS2: Maybe to be more clear: on my Notebook is 9.10 RC installed with all updates. The mentioned problems happen with the live-CD AND with the installed RC. I tried both because I thought that at least the KMS-problem could be caused by the encryption.

@ PaulInBHC: I reinstalled the xserver-xorg-video-ati and radeon package but the compiz problem still persists.

---

