---
title: "9.10: What to expect from Kinky Kangaroo?"
date: 2008-11-05
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by evilkastel on 2008-11-05
Hahaha got ya!
9.10 does not have a name yet, but I hardly can think of and adjetive and an animal with K. And after Jaunty Jackalope, (is hard even to write it) we can expect anything. Obviously Jaunty would be more of a "forgive us for Ibex" version. I expect a bit of hardware compatibility, for they to solve that ridicolous bug with amd x2 users... ( i have a X2 but I am currently using i386 Kubuntu).

Also the Wireless job theyre doing is great, and I hope for jaunty a lot (a loT!) and i mean a LOT! of bugfixes, also to include a newer version of KDE, yeah this one is pretty but has more bugs than a cupcake in the forest. 
better hardware support, a faster boot structure and better support for nVidia... i mean, i had to dance with the devil to get my xorg.conf right.

Once we have a stable ubuntu, the devs would be able to add stuff, but is pointless to keep going with daring advances when the last usable version of ubuntu was hardy heron and for a lot of pople, gutsy gibbon.

I understand the challenge that it is and that i have no right to demand anything, since i do not develope squad, but when i full switched to ubuntu, i expected the updates to be a upgrade... anyhow, is a rocky road and all this is for the best.

What do you expect?

---

### Post by Ripfox on 2008-11-05
Forgive us for Ibex? Ibex is the best yet on my laptop. Nothing to forgive, just to thank them for!

---

### Post by mentallaxative on 2008-11-05
Lots of baby kangaroos.

---

### Post by evilkastel on 2008-11-05
Ripfox, check the forums and see that your case is more of an exception than a rule. for me is barely working and KDE 4.1 is too buggy. Also, Ibex severally damaged a friend of mine laptop's. a quad core laptop, with a battery and a fan melt down in an exception at Ibex boot. so.... i do thank them, but i expect fixes. 
and for the second post all I can say is... LOL !!! OMG!

---

### Post by ankursethi on 2008-11-05
I'm expecting faster boot times and a lower memory footprint, along with a *much* better battery life on laptops. I could always install Arch along with a lightweight WM on my PC, but it's just not the same.

Oh, and can somebody please make it work nicely with the MacBook? I know Apple hates Linux, but many Apple users would do *anything* to get a distro working perfecty on their Macs.

---

### Post by Saint Angeles on 2008-11-05
> **evilkastel said:**
> Ripfox, check the forums and see that your case is more of an exception than a rule. for me is barely working and KDE 4.1 is too buggy. Also, Ibex severally damaged a friend of mine laptop's. a quad core laptop, with a battery and a fan melt down in an exception at Ibex boot. so.... i do thank them, but i expect fixes. 
and for the second post all I can say is... LOL !!! OMG!
people usually ask for help when they are having trouble, not when everything is working great.

the people having problems with intrepid are a small percentage of everybody running intrepid.

---

### Post by evilkastel on 2008-11-05
Ok, is true, but check not only the troubleshooting topics but the general ibex opinion ones, see that almost all nvidia users had trouble, 64 bit users had troubles, and a lot of people is reporting lower boot time. You cnat talk about percentage without numbers, but i'll say people having critical issues are far a lot more that the last versions. But again, there are a lot of topics about it, so, i'll like to know WW you improve. 
also, I believe Kevin Mutnick (im quite sure i mispelled the name) uses a macbook with Gentoo, offcourse, gentoo is gentoo. He says ""is the best hardware, with the best software"

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2008-11-05
> **evilkastel said:**
> Ripfox, check the forums and see that your case is more of an exception than a rule. for me is barely working and KDE 4.1 is too buggy. Also, Ibex severally damaged a friend of mine laptop's. a quad core laptop, with a battery and a fan melt down in an exception at Ibex boot. so.... i do thank them, but i expect fixes. 
and for the second post all I can say is... LOL !!! OMG!

The couple threads I've been following has been mixed but overall positive regarding II.

Personally I'm going to hold off, but that's more because I don't see anything enticing enough to make me upgrade yet.

If Jaunty does succeed in faster booting, better wireless and better battery support then that will be enough for me to upgrade.

Oh, and why did you have to say "Kinky Knagaroo"? Now I have this mental image of a Kangaroo in S&M gear and that's very distracting here at work! :lolflag:

---

### Post by lisati on 2008-11-05
> **mentallaxative said:**
> Lots of baby kangaroos.

I think we're a little late to use "Jumping Joeys" for the next release.... (I think there's a pun waiting to happen about "hopping mad" waiting to happen here)


Anyway, onwards and upwards with developing and refining the Ubuntu family of distros!

---

### Post by TwiceOver on 2008-11-05
I'm with RipFox on this, Intrepid has been by far the best version for my laptop.  

What I would like to see around 9.10:

Faster boot times
MUCH better theme (more professional looking please)
Smaller memory footprint
A Better selection of pre-installed apps (VLC, Exaile, etc) and removal of some of the worthless ones.

Something I would really like to see is a selection menu during install similar to server edition where I can select and or remove some of the things I won't use such as "Games".

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2008-11-05
> **TwiceOver said:**
> I'm with RipFox on this, Intrepid has been by far the best version for my laptop.  

What I would like to see around 9.10:

Faster boot times
MUCH better theme (more professional looking please)
Smaller memory footprint
A Better selection of pre-installed apps (VLC, Exaile, etc) and removal of some of the worthless ones.

Something I would really like to see is a selection menu during install similar to server edition where I can select and or remove some of the things I won't use such as "Games".

Aww.. Games is one of the things missing from Kubuntu's default list of applications! :lolflag:

---

### Post by evilkastel on 2008-11-05
great participation people, Im liking it. look:
> If you rock Ubuntu, you've probably already got your engines revved for the more immediately imminent Intrepid Ibex 8.10 release next month. But that's not stopping Canonical&#8212;Ubuntu's main developer&#8212;from jibber-jabbering about Jaunty Jackalope, the next major Ubuntu release, which is due in April. Ubuntu 9.04's code name stems from its focus on zip-zoominess, with a goal of making "booting or resuming Ubuntu blindingly quick" and a "blurring of web services and desktop applications." So it'll be a fast hybrid, just like an, uh, real jackalope. 
While it's not entirely certain how Jaunty will float on the cloud, Bits notes that Canonical CEO Mark Shuttleworth says they're after "weblications." Either way, it's surely not coincidental that Jaunty's two major goals&#8212;a light, snappy OS with serious web app/cloud computing integration&#8212;converge to accelerate the death of the traditional Microsoft-dominated desktop. We'll know how well it succeeds in just a few months. [Ars Technica]

OK, seems promising. Also, Kinky Kangaroo is something I tought a few nights ago while (don't hold your breath) i was brushing my theeth. I was thinking the names for the next versions. But after Kinky Kangaroo, who could help getting "Lusty Lion", "Masoquist Mamooth" or "Nymphomaniac Nabarlek" (seek it out, it IS an animal). But when I googled it, I found out that some folks@Slashdot already had fun with the Kangaroo. But Kinky Kangaroo was the only coincidence. ;)  Blinding Fast, eh? TwiceOver, you have something going on with the "selection".... i'll love that too!

---

### Post by Paqman on 2008-11-05
> **evilkastel said:**
> see that almost all nvidia users had trouble, 64 bit users had troubles

As a 64-bit Nvidia user, i'm looking very sceptically at this assertion. Intrepid works just dandy on both my desktop and my laptop.

Remember that Ubuntu forums has 700,000 users (out of Ubuntu's 8 million). If 100 or even 1000 of them had trouble, that indicates a pretty low failure rate.

---

### Post by evilkastel on 2008-11-06
HAve you a message with an error at bootup? I understand is an Ibex bug, that varies from PC to PC. some  pCs won't even start. Mine started but had a 20 sec delay while displaying that  "Aperture over 4GB ...Ignoring" text. So... and X server seting has a bug that makes very difficult top get a nvidiagenerated xorg.conf.  BUt youre right. still, i'm hoping a lot from jaunty, since Windows 7 is atound the corner and from what i have seen,   I don't think I'm switching back to MS. Actually I am using i386 aechitecture Ibex on my Amd X2 because i got tired of waiting almost 2 minutes for my Pc to boot. (That IS too much).

---

### Post by cb951303 on 2008-11-06
I expect plymouth and kms to be integrated so that we can finally have a stable bootsplash system and I also expect a better theme with true round corners for composite enabled users. Finally I expect metacity compositing become more stable so that I can uninstall compiz forever.

---

### Post by Ripfox on 2008-11-07
Ok but Ubuntu did NOT "melt your friends computer"

I'm sorry but it was some other problem with the hardware friend, not the OS. Sorry.

:lolflag:

---

