---
title: "ath5k/ar2413"
date: 2009-08-16
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by kestal on 2009-08-16
I did a clean install of karmic alpha 4 on my desktop. I cannot get wireless to work. Some of the entries are a bit odd.

sudo iwlist scanning

> wmaster0  Interface doesn't support scanning
wlan0     No Scan Results

ifconfig

> wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:14:a5:cc:4d:e5  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

ipconfig

> 802.11bg  ESSID:""  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.412 GHz  Access Point: Not-Associated   
          Tx-Power=27 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality:0  Signal level:0  Noise level:0
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

lspci -v | less

> 03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR2413 802.11bg NIC (rev ff) (prog-if ff)
        !!! Unknown header type 7f
        Kernel driver in use: ath5k
        Kernel modules: ath5k

(about 15 entries of those, with different numbers at the beginning, each saying the same thing).

I do not believe I had this problem in Jaunty, and I do not have this problem in Windows 7.

It does say that the kernel driver is in use, however I cannot connect, nor do I even see that my wireless is active. It is on a desktop.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by forumache on 2009-08-17
Same card (different revision though) and it works here in Karmic.
I used the completely autommated procedure (no configuration at all): it displayed a list of Access Points and I selected the right one, it asked for the password and ... connected.

dan@shuttle:~$ lspci -v |grep Eth
02:06.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR2413 802.11bg NIC (rev 01)
02:08.0 Ethernet controller: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 88E8001 Gigabit Ethernet Controller (rev 13)
dan@shuttle:~$ lsmod|grep ath
ath5k                 123908  0 
mac80211              180948  1 ath5k
led_class               4096  1 ath5k
ath                     8060  1 ath5k
cfg80211               93084  3 ath5k,mac80211,ath

dan@shuttle:~$ sudo iwlist scanning
[sudo] password for dan: 
lo        Interface doesn't support scanning.

eth0      Interface doesn't support scanning.

wmaster0  Interface doesn't support scanning.

wlan0     Scan completed :
          Cell 01 - Address: 00:0F:66:C7:DE:58
                    Channel:4
                    Frequency:2.427 GHz (Channel 4)
                    <other results omitted>

Tell me if you want me to run other things to help you debug. I have no ideea why it doesn't work, except the different revision of the card (01 vs. ff).

---

### Post by celticbhoy on 2009-08-17
[QUOTE]office@office-laptop:~$ lspci -v |grep Eth
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 02)
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR242x 802.11abg Wireless PCI Express Adapter (rev 01)
office@office-laptop:~$ 

/QUOTE]

I have a slightly different problem with this card, I can connect ok  and internet works, but whenever I load or refresh a webpage it takes 3-4 seconds resolving host before loading the page. In jaunty it works fine.

---

### Post by forumache on 2009-08-17
> **celticbhoy said:**
> 
I have a slightly different problem with this card, 

No, you have a different problem with a *different* card. Yours is 242x. The post is about 2413. Although the problem might be the same ;)

---

### Post by Matt Behrens on 2009-08-17
Wonder if this might be related to my AR928X (ath9k) sporadic disassociation problem.

Same adapter was very solid on jaunty.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/414560](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/414560)

---

### Post by kestal on 2009-08-17
I tested it on Jaunty this morning. It was detected perfectly and everything worked. I tried to install a new karmic and it does not even show up on my network manager list, or anything.. I will take a look at the launchpad entry ..

---

### Post by kestal on 2009-08-20
just mentioning, the problem mentioned was not the same problem. I cannot even see any wireless networks, cant connect. 

It does work perfectly fine in Jaunty, but for some reason not in Karmic.

I found some info about backport modules, but I cannot connect it via ethernet. So I am not sure if I can do anything else. Do the backport-modules/mad-wifi come on the cd? dvd? would I be able to somehow find the right driver from Jaunty's live-cd?

---

