---
title: "Grub2 editing"
date: 2009-06-30
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Kevbert on 2009-06-30
I'm running Karmic Alpha2 with Grub2. If I try to edit grub.cfg I get an error in terminal (is this a bug ?). Also I can't save the file using sudo as it complains that its read only. Commands used and error
```
/boot/grub$ sudo gedit grub.cfg
[sudo] password for kevin: 

(gedit:4376): Gdk-CRITICAL **: gdk_x11_xatom_to_atom_for_display: assertion `xatom != None' failed
```

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2009-06-30
If you do a 
ls -l /boot/grub/grub.cfg
you'll see it is marked as
-r--r--r--
which is read only.  Every time Grub2 updates the file it changes its permissions into read only.

What you do is
sudo chmod 644 /boot/grub/grub.cfg
which changes the permissions to
-rw-r--r--r--
so you can do a 
sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg.

Good luck.  I've had some limited success in changing grub.cfg without fouling myself up altogether.

I find Grub2 A WHOLE LOT MORE UNFRIENDLY AND MORE COMPLICATED than Grub which is no gem itself.  I assume there's a reason for Grub2?  I haven't looked into what advantages it may have.

Jerry

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-06-30
In grub2 the config file really isn't meant to be edited as is menu.lst in 'grub legacy'.  The .cfg file is created by update-grub and reads files in /etc/grub.d for its content. Anytime you do an 'update-grub' it is going to return the file to 'read-only' status.

I wrote a [post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275") about grub2 that explains it a bit. There isn't a lot of documentation so I put together a piece on how to edit it and what the new files are. The link is in my signature line.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-06-30
really isn't meant to be edited is a stupid idea, as experience to date proves . There will be cases where editing that file is necessary to get back into your system , or atleast the quickest way .Also custom or frequently changing boot configurations are often best handled that way . attempting to lock the sysadmin out of configuration files is bad bad bad .

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-06-30
> **ronacc said:**
> really isn't meant to be edited is a stupid idea, as experience to date proves . There will be cases where editing that file is necessary to get back into your system , or atleast the quickest way .Also custom or frequently changing boot configurations are often best handled that way . attempting to lock the sysadmin out of configuration files is bad bad bad .

It seems like the grub2 developers think of grub.cfg as a *result* rather than as the *initiator* of the process. 

I agree that there are more files (those in the folders of /etc/grub.d) and /etc/default/grub which can make editing more complicated that the single-file menu.lst of grub legacy.

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2009-06-30
The reason I want to edit grub2.cfg is due to the fact that two instances of the same OS seem to be displayed but the title labelling is wrong. I have two copies of Ubuntu 9.04 installed, one for general use on sdb5, and another copy to be left unmodified on sda7. The title message I changed in menu.lst for sda7, so that I didn't install anything (I want to help with Ubuntu documentation), prior to installing Karmic Alpha2.

The title for sda7 should read
```
title      Ubuntu 9.04, unmodified 2.6.28-13-generic (sda7)
```

My grub2.cfg
```
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from  and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
set default=0
set timeout=5
set root=(hd1,8)
search --fs-uuid --set 93d5d78f-42eb-4d8a-8806-adb40171f5fc
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/ascii.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=cyan/blue
set menu_color_highlight=white/blue
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, linux 2.6.30-8-generic" {
	set root=(hd1,8)
	search --fs-uuid --set 93d5d78f-42eb-4d8a-8806-adb40171f5fc
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.30-8-generic root=UUID=93d5d78f-42eb-4d8a-8806-adb40171f5fc ro  quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.30-8-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, linux 2.6.30-8-generic (recovery mode)" {
	set root=(hd1,8)
	search --fs-uuid --set 93d5d78f-42eb-4d8a-8806-adb40171f5fc
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.30-8-generic root=UUID=93d5d78f-42eb-4d8a-8806-adb40171f5fc ro single 
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.30-8-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
	linux	/boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
	linux	/boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Windows NT/2000/XP (loader) (on /dev/sda1)" {
	set root=(hd0,1)
	chainloader +1
}
menuentry "Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-13-generic (on /dev/sda7)" {
	set root=(hd0,7)
	linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-13-generic root=UUID=f0bc8483-f70d-4689-99bb-93a3e7eeb626 ro quiet splash
	initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-13-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-13-generic (recovery mode) (on /dev/sda7)" {
	set root=(hd0,7)
	linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-13-generic root=UUID=f0bc8483-f70d-4689-99bb-93a3e7eeb626 ro single
	initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-13-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu 9.04, memtest86+ (on /dev/sda7)" {
	set root=(hd0,7)
	linux /boot/memtest86+.bin 
}
menuentry "Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-13-generic (on /dev/sdb5)" {
	set root=(hd1,5)
	linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-13-generic root=UUID=9470ea92-8b37-4d18-8132-925d8f1aa888 ro quiet splash
	initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-13-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-13-generic (recovery mode) (on /dev/sdb5)" {
	set root=(hd1,5)
	linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-13-generic root=UUID=9470ea92-8b37-4d18-8132-925d8f1aa888 ro single
	initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-13-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu 9.04, memtest86+ (on /dev/sdb5)" {
	set root=(hd1,5)
	linux /boot/memtest86+.bin 
}
menuentry "Ubuntu 9.04 unmodified 2.6.28-13-generic (sda7) (on /dev/sdb5)" {
	set root=(hd1,5)
	linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-13-generic root=UUID=f0bc8483-f70d-4689-99bb-93a3e7eeb626 ro quiet splash
	initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-13-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu 9.04, unmodified 2.6.28-13-generic (recovery mode) (sda7) (on /dev/sdb5)" {
	set root=(hd1,5)
	linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-13-generic root=UUID=f0bc8483-f70d-4689-99bb-93a3e7eeb626 ro single
	initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-13-generic
}
menuentry "Kubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-13-generic (on /dev/sdb7)" {
	set root=(hd1,7)
	linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-13-generic root=UUID=90413117-5470-4897-bf4a-2f34e11736b7 ro quiet splash
	initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-13-generic
}
menuentry "Kubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-13-generic (recovery mode) (on /dev/sdb7)" {
	set root=(hd1,7)
	linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-13-generic root=UUID=90413117-5470-4897-bf4a-2f34e11736b7 ro single
	initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-13-generic
}
menuentry "Kubuntu 9.04, memtest86+ (on /dev/sdb7)" {
	set root=(hd1,7)
	linux /boot/memtest86+.bin 
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file is an example on how to add custom entries
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

```
Thanks for the feedback.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-06-30
Did you try "gksudo gedit"?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-06-30
"gksudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg" but even with gksudo the file properties must be changed from read-only first. So, if you must edit this file:
```

sudo chmod +w /boot/grub/grub.cfg
gksudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg

```

Note: I have added this to the [Grub 2 Basics]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275") tutorial/post.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-06-30
I've been making a copy of the file & working with that--is easier & you just put the original one in a safe place so you have it if you bugger the modded file.....

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2009-07-01
Just upgraded to 2.6.30.10 via
```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```
I had to manually run
```
sudo update-grub2
```
to get the new kernel to show in grub.cfg.  Now time to edit the file...
Thanks drs305 for the commands. I've backed up my new version of grub.cfg as it will probably be mucked up after an upgrade...

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2009-07-01
> **Kevbert said:**
> ```
Gdk-CRITICAL **: gdk_x11_xatom_to_atom_for_display: assertion `xatom != None' failed
```

Is this an up-to-date installation? This bug should be fixed: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+2.0/+bug/387912](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+2.0/+bug/387912)

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2009-07-01
> **MacUntu said:**
> Is this an up-to-date installation? This bug should be fixed: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+2.0/+bug/387912](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+2.0/+bug/387912)

This was fixed after updating earlier today. Thx.
The updates also fixed excessive noise from my SATA hard drives.

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2009-07-02
Confused...
I've managed to edit my grub.cfg file with no real problems. If I to change the first
```
set root=(hd1,8)
```
to
```
set root=(hd1,5)
```
it has no effect on the operation of bootup (but it should be (hd1,8).
Following drs305s' Grub 2 Basics guild I should be able to change my default booting menu entry in /etc/default/grub. If I change 
```
GRUB_DEFAULT=0
```
to
```
GRUB_DEFAULT=10
```
entry 0 still boots up. Does that mean I need to do another grub update as then my titles will probably need manually changing again ?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-07-02
> **Kevbert said:**
> 
Following drs305s' Grub 2 Basics guild I should be able to change my default booting menu entry in /etc/default/grub. If I change 
```
GRUB_DEFAULT=0
```
to
```
GRUB_DEFAULT=10
```
entry 0 still boots up. Does that mean I need to do another grub update as then my titles will probably need manually changing again ?

When you run the update-grub/update-grub2 command, it will enter the new boot default entry ("DEFAULT=10") into grub.cfg. Any change made to /etc/default/grub will not be placed into grub.cfg OR take effect until the update command is run. 

As you say, you would have to go back after the grub update to change your titles if desired. Of course, you could manually edit your DEFAULT= settings in grub.cfg since you will be going there anyway if you are going to change the titles. 

I would imagine the preferred method would be to
1. Make the DEFAULT= entry into /etc/default/grub. Now it will be updated whenever update-grub is run and you won't have to edit it again. (Once).
2. Run update-grub
If you want to change title entries...
3. Remove /boot/grub/grub.cfg "read-only"
4. Manually edit /boot/grub/grub.cfg if you want to change the titles. (Every time grub is updated)

The other way would be to:
1. Remove /boot/grub/grub.cfg "read-only"
2. Change DEFAULT= in /boot/grub/grub.cfg  (Every time grub is  updated).
3. Change titles in /boot/grub/grub.cfg  (Every time grub is updated).

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2009-07-02
Thanks for clarification drs305.  It looks like grub2 is a lot more involved when compared to the old legacy grub. I see it has some good points (backgrounds and by the look of it some sound files (?)) but seems a little overcomplicated. I've tried using backgrounds with the old grub but sometimes the colour settings have failed to work with various backgrounds from gnome-look.

---

### Post by wayne_cat on 2009-07-02
Grub2 is really powerful ... add a kernel and a good bootloader to it and you have a complete OS

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2009-07-02
How constructive... not.

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2009-07-03
[LEFT]Here is where I found the information:
[http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20/GRUB2%20Splashimages.html](http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20/GRUB2%20Splashimages.html)

I have been playing around with grub2 and the splash images. Below is a copy of my etc/default/grub:

```

# This file is sourced by update-grub, and its variables are propagated
# to its children in /etc/grub.d/
GRUB_DEFAULT=0
GRUB_TIMEOUT=30
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"

# Uncomment to disable graphical terminal (grub-pc only)
#GRUB_TERMINAL=console

# The resolution used on graphical terminal
# note that you can use only modes which your graphic card supports via VBE
# you can see them in real GRUB with the command `vbeinfo'
GRUB_GFXMODE=1280x1024

# Uncomment if you don't want GRUB to pass "root=UUID=xxx" parameter to Linux
#GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_UUID=true

```with my graphics card 1280x1024 is accepted for the resolution.
[/LEFT]

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2009-07-05
youtube video of my boot process with grub2:
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_SM7jYphZ7U](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_SM7jYphZ7U)

---

### Post by Done_Fishin on 2009-07-05
> **jerrylamos said:**
> If you do a 
ls -l /boot/grub/grub.cfg
you'll see it is marked as
-r--r--r--
which is read only.  Every time Grub2 updates the file it changes its permissions into read only.

What you do is
sudo chmod 644 /boot/grub/grub.cfg
which changes the permissions to
-rw-r--r--r--
so you can do a 
sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg.

Good luck.  I've had some limited success in changing grub.cfg without fouling myself up altogether.

I find Grub2 A WHOLE LOT MORE UNFRIENDLY AND MORE COMPLICATED than Grub which is no gem itself.  I assume there's a reason for Grub2?  I haven't looked into what advantages it may have.

Jerry

I have no idea as to whether I am using grub2 but I did manage to modify my grub.cfg using the information above to add acpi=off, from within the UNR Live CD installation.
Carefully using the "CD" command to get to my installation on the hard drive and then down to /boot/grub/grub.cfg I made it rw, modified it saved it and then rebooted into the USB install. I found that I didn't need to change it again since the properties remained set as per the previous edit. Because it was done via the Live CD ?? Don't know!!

but it was a great help having the info above to guide me through that hassle of making the file writable .. I had been tearing at my hair trying to find out why I couldn't do it! Mustt have re-installed UNR 5 or 6 times over the last 24 hours looking for various workarounds ):P):P

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-07-05
> **Done_Fishin said:**
> I found that I didn't need to change it again since the properties remained set as per the previous edit. Because it was done via the Live CD ?? Don't know!!

If you mean the r/w properties, they will change back to r/w the next time *update-grub* is run. Same with any changes you made to the grub.cfg file itself. Unless you made the changes in /etc/default/grub or one of the /etc/grub.d/ files any that you made will most likely be removed.

---

### Post by TheForkOfJustice on 2009-07-05
Poeple, people...

This is how you add entries to grub.cfg and you won't have to mess around with  permissions.

1. Go to /boot/grub/grub.cfg and copy the boot entries. They should look similar to mine:

```
menuentry "Ubuntu, linux 2.6.30-8-generic" {
	set root=(hd0,7)
	search --fs-uuid --set cdcc713f-58e0-4ad8-b61c-d4fedae073db
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.30-8-generic root=UUID=cdcc713f-58e0-4ad8-b61c-d4fedae073db ro  quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.30-8-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, linux 2.6.30-8-generic (recovery mode)" {
	set root=(hd0,7)
	search --fs-uuid --set cdcc713f-58e0-4ad8-b61c-d4fedae073db
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.30-8-generic root=UUID=cdcc713f-58e0-4ad8-b61c-d4fedae073db ro single 
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.30-8-generic
}
```

2. Once copied open this file:

```
sudo gedit /etc/grub.d/40_custom
```

And paste the code into the 40_custom file.

3. Change the UUID, name, settings and partition location to fit your needs. It's similar to the old menu.lst way of doing things just make sure you get it right or you won't be able to boot that partition.

4. Update Grub:

```
sudo update-grub
```

5.  Examine grub.cfg again and you notice your custom stuff on the bottom.  If there is a God and you've done everything right you'll be able to boot from the entries you've added.  I noticed that Koala won't add my main Jaunty installation so I had to add it myself by doing the steps above.  Haven't tested it yet but the entries are there now.  It added my Vista install flawlessly.

---

### Post by budluva04 on 2009-07-05
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2")

just for anyone who doesn't know, alot of useful information there

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-07-05
ForkofJustice:

I'll see your tip (very nice, by the way) and raise you one. Take your idea, and instead of adding it to 40_custom, name it 07_custom. Since the entries in grub.cfg are set by the file name (number), those in 07_ will appear before 10_, 30_ and 40_.

Make the file executable and then run 'update-grub'. Check to see if the default boot number is correct in grub.cfg. If it isn't, change the default number by running, with X being the 'menuentry' number you want to boot:
```

grub-set-default X

```

You will still have two sets of entries with this method, but at least the ones you want to see will be at the top of the menu.

---

### Post by TheForkOfJustice on 2009-07-05
Another thing I noticed:

While the vanilla Alpha2 install doesn't add other kernels to the boot list, if you update your installation (and run update-grub for good measure) then the missing entries WILL be present.

I was in the process of updating at the same time as I was posting that last post of mine.  Just noticed it now. 

Maybe now I'll try and see if I can edit things around so my Jaunty install will appear first on the list.  I think **drs305** just told me how.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-07-06
I have had great luck getting grub2 to work if it is the last installed OS on a multi-boot system.

Now I am trying to get it to be the boot-root after something else is installed.  so far just nothing but grief on that.

Update grub picks up all the OS' but I can't figure the syntax for intall-grub (from LiveCD) to get the bugger back to root.  

Anyone got any suggestions?

---

### Post by Nikayah on 2009-07-08
```

install-grub /dev/sda

```

Is what I use seeing as I have a single sata drive. You may or may not need to change the drive/partition to which you can install grub.

---

### Post by Regenweald on 2009-07-08
> **ranch hand said:**
> I have had great luck getting grub2 to work if it is the last installed OS on a multi-boot system.

Now I am trying to get it to be the boot-root after something else is installed.  so far just nothing but grief on that.

Update grub picks up all the OS' but I can't figure the syntax for intall-grub (from LiveCD) to get the bugger back to root.  

Anyone got any suggestions?

I have physically rearranged my sata connections so that my Karmic/grub2 drive is sata0 on my motherboard. After that, for all subsequent installations, make sure you install their respective bootloaders to their drive/partition. Then it's a matter of adding them to grub2. 
alternatively you could rearrange the hd boot order in your BIOS.

Grub2 is great, and it auromatically found my Xp so now i use it to dual boot, but before when I could not chainload for some reason I'd simply hit F12 and select which drive to boot. My needs are simple.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-07-08
Nikayah
Thank you.  I was giving too much information.  I will try this when I get over there again.

I may try it on the 9.10-64 that I have on 2 partitions on different HDDs too.  It didn't work as well as the one on just one partition.

The external that I am using for this is 2 SATA drives, no RAID (I know I am supposed to but I don't like RAID and think it is a silly idea).  I can only boot from the first drive when set up that way so I put / on it and /home on the other.

This means that I end up with more space on the 1st and can install on 2 partitions or 1 partition on the 1st every now and then which has been handy when pooling with Grub2.

I love grub 0.97 and can play with it in my sleep.

Grub2 looks like it will have a lot of advantages but I need to learn to use it.  As you can see from my outdated sig I am a distro whore.  I like them on their own partition so that they act like a real install.  I have VB on one Jaunty partition and while it is fun it does not really act as it would "in the wild".

I always install each OS to be bootable so the last installed is the boot root.  I need to be able to change that incase that OS really gets screwwed.  This happens.  My join date is when I started with Ubuntu and Linux in general so I have a lot to learn.  I push buttons to see what happens a lot.  Some times this is a good thing.  Sometimes a bad thing.  It is always fun.  But I need to be able to change where grub is getting its info from.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-07-08
> **Nikayah said:**
> ```

install-grub /dev/sda

```

Is what I use seeing as I have a single sata drive. You may or may not need to change the drive/partition to which you can install grub.
My / partitions are all on sda.
My attempts to use this command just got me;
```

ker@ker-desktop:~$ sudo install-grub /dev/sda
sudo: install-grub: command not found

```
This however seems moot right now, the grub-pc update has made it work on sda8 which is my 2 partition 9.10 that grub2 would not boot at all when installed in the first place (install A2 when it came out).

---

### Post by taavikko on 2009-07-09
> **Nikayah said:**
> ```

install-grub /dev/sda

```

Is what I use seeing as I have a single sata drive. You may or may not need to change the drive/partition to which you can install grub.

hmm, the correct code is "grub-install <drive>"

---

