---
title: "9.10 on Dell XPS1330.  DVD &quot;disappears&quot;"
date: 2009-09-29
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by haemphyst on 2009-09-29
Dowloaded 9.10 alpha (64-bit) from a perfectly functioning 9.04 (64-bit) installation on XPS-M1330.  All went well, and the MD5 matched.

Burned CD with Brasero, inside the (previously mentioned) perfectly functioning 9.04 installation.  All went well, and no errors reported.

Removed the 160GB hard drive with 9.04 on it, installed NEW 500GB hard drive into XPS-M1330, (I might mention that this drive has had one installation of Windows XP and one 9.04 (32-bit) on it in my Compaq 6444US, and there are no errors on it), booted from 9.10 Desktop CD, dedicated entire drive to install, and all files and applications were installed with not a single error reported.  I did have to power cycle the laptop manually after the installation process, as it got stuck in a loop, and would refuse to soft-reboot for itself.  I admit that I did not attempt running the Live CD first:  I'd never had issues with this laptop before, all the way back to (maybe) 7.10, I think.  All hardware is detected, including wireless, video, and webcam.  All hardware functioning is confirmed with installation of ccsm from web (all desktop effects work perfectly), and cheese.  Installed VLC (through Update Manager) and the DVD playback (though CLI) plug-ins.  All repository updates and installs went without a hitch.

Now for the weird part:  DVD appears in "Places".  Media card reader mounts media and appears in "Places > Computer-File Browser".  When I insert either video or data DVD, or a music or data CD, or any blank media, be it DVD or CD, the media will spin up as usual for identification, but then the DVD drive simply disappears.  It's gone.  There is no mount process, and any application that would be able to use the optical device (i.e. VLC or Brasero) cannot see it.  In the 9.04 install this device works just fine.  Additionally, this odd diappearance occurred from the very first boot, even before ANY applications were installed, I actually added the VLC to see what might be happening.

In the 9.04 install, the eject button on the button bar locks when a media is inserted, but I can use software to eject media, or I can wait until I reboot to eject inserted media using the eject button.  In this install, the eject button works perfectly, but because there is never any mount of the inserted media, of course there is no way to use software (the OS) to eject.  All hardware appears to be working EXACTLY as it should be.

Suggestions?

If you have any further questions, please ask, and I'll try to fill you in, as best I can.

**:::::EDIT 1:::::**
Rebooted from LiveCD, re-installed and tried again.  Same issue is occurring, but now while running from the hard drive, and NOT the LiveCD, even if I plug in an external drive, (different manufacturer than the internal...) it too disappears upon insertion of any media.  Will be back shortly, going to try to run USB CD from LiveCD.

**:::::EDIT 2:::::**
Currently running from the LiveCD, and I have the external USB DVD installed.  Once media is inserted, drive spins disc for identification, and the CD/DVD Drive simply goes away from within the "Computer - File Browser" window.  ANYTHING that I can try, I will...  I loved the 9.10 when I had it running on my Compaq, I just want to keep that one as a Windows machine and this Dell as a dedicated Ubuntu machine...  HELP!!!  Please!!!  I do have a 32-bit iso, but I have not tried it in this laptop.  The hardware's got 64-bit support and 4GB RAM, so I'd really like to use the 64-bit install.

**:::::EDIT 3:::::**
Does it on the 32-bit version, too...  Confirmed with both LiveCD and full install...  WTH is going on here?

---

### Post by haemphyst on 2009-09-29
Well...  Downloaded again, both 32- and 64- bit versions, re-burned, and re- ran and/or installed, on the Dell (32 and 64 bit) and the 32 bit version on the Compaq.  Still had the same issues.

I'm giving up on the 9.10 for now, wiped the 500GB for a 9.04 install, and I'll run that for now.  I'll keep checking in on this thread in case somebody wants to address the issue, in case somebody else has the same issues as I have had.

---

