---
title: "GRUB 2 Introduction"
date: 2009-10-08
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-08
DON'T PANIC

There is a lot of great information on grub2 on this forum.

I wrote this up to give folks a flying start.  This will not make you an expert but it will, hopefully, get you headed in the right direction.

A lot of people have trouble, right after installation, with other OS' being missing from the menu.  The first thing to do for this is go to your terminal and;
```

sudo update-grub

```This is all it takes a majority of the time.
EDIT (10-28-09)
There is another way to update grub;
```

sudo grub-mkconfig

```This is supposed to be the default and will, I believe, soon replace update-grub altogether.
END EDIT

                                 Grub2 is completely different from grub-legacy.  If you are using grub2 be prepared to learn something new.
 

 The menu that you see on the screen when you boot up comes from the /boot/grub/grub.cfg file.
 

 The /boot/grub/grub.cfg file is generated everytime &#8220;update-grub&#8221; is run.  This is run everytime you get a kernal update and many times when you get a grub update.  It does not make sence to edit this file.
 

 Grub.cfg is generated by scripts in /etc/grub.d.
 

 00_header gets the ball rolling and gets your timeout and hidden menu information for the menu.
 

 05_debian-theme sets up how your menu looks on the screen.
 

 10_linux is the one that gives you the menu entry for the OS that you are on.
 

 20_memtest86+ is what sets the memtest on your menu.
 

 30_os-prober is what is responcible for finding the rest of your OS'.
 

 40_custom is designed so that you can make custom entries.
 

 Grub2 gets its time out information and sets up a hidden menu for you in /etc/default/grub.
 

 If you need to edit a menu entry that does not work do not mess with grub.cfg.  It is silly to do so.  It will be over written.
 

 Go to /etc/grub.d and add to the 40_custom file.  For instance;
 30_os-prober does not generate a functional menu entry for my Mandriva installs.  So I have a custom entry that works every time and comes right up on the menu every time.  It is not over written because it is regenerated every time that &#8220;update-grub&#8221; is run.
 ```

 menuentry "linux-nonfb (on /dev/sda12)" {
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,12)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set c23ad2ca-67a5-4a42-8fcc-3baa6d8e454e
    linux /boot/vmlinuz BOOT_IMAGE=linux-nonfb root=UUID=c23ad2ca-67a5-4a42-8fcc-3baa6d8e454e resume=UUID=59fe476e-6d4f-e390-ced9-f29328538dfc
    initrd (hd0,11)/boot/initrd.img
}
 
``` As you can see the partition is defined as being in two different places in this entry.  It will not boot.  The entry below will boot very well indeed.
 


```

        menuentry "Mandriva-Gnome" {
        linux (hd0,12)/boot/vmlinuz
        initrd (hd0,12)/boot/initrd.img
}
 
``` This also works very well for your non-grub2 Ubuntu OS'.
 

 I use a slightly different entry for grub2 Ubuntu installs;
 ```

 menuentry "Kinky-Grub2-A2 on sda10 2.6.31-11-generic" {
        set root=(hd0,10)
        linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda10 so quiet splash
        initrd /initrd.img
}
 
``` This entry works even if you change the OS on the partition.  
 

 Your custom entries must be in the proper form.  The first thing to do is start your favorite text editor (I use gedit).  Go to preferences and set it so that there is NO test wrapping.
 

 Then, in your 40_custom file put in an entry such as;
 ```

 echo "Adding Kinky-Grub2-A2 on sda10 (2.6.31-11-generic)" >&2 
cat << EOF
menuentry "Kinky-Grub2-A2 on sda10 2.6.31-11-generic" {
        set root=(hd0,10)
        linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda10 so quiet splash
        initrd /initrd.img
}
EOF
 
``` That is the entire entry for that OS.  It is the one that I use for experimenting on grub2.  The part that does the work is between the { }s.  Make sure that they are where they belong.
 

 If you save this file as 06_custom it will appear at the top of  menu you see on the screen.  If you save it as 40_custom it will appear at the bottom of menu you see on the screen.
 

 Now, what is the advantage of this rigamarole compared to grub-leagacy.
 

 Well, if you have three OS' on your drive and you set up a custom menu you do not need any other menu entries at all.  So you change the permissions on 10_linux, 20_memtest86+, 30_custom so that they are not executable.  They will not run when &#8220;update-grub&#8221; is run and so the onoy thing on your menu is your custom entries.  There is nothing that can mess with these entries except you.
 

 You must remember to run;
 ```

 sudo update-grub
 
``` Everytime you do anything that is to change your menu.  This will overwrite your /boot/grub/grub.cfg file and thus the menu that shows up on your screen.


Here are some links, some more useful than others, that I have collected.

                                 Some grub2 links;
 

 [http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20.html]("http://members.iinet.net/%7Eherman546/p20.html")
 
 [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)
 
 [http://grub.enbug.org/](http://grub.enbug.org/)
 
 [http://grub.enbug.org/Manual](http://grub.enbug.org/Manual)
 
 [http://grub.enbug.org/CommandList](http://grub.enbug.org/CommandList)
 
 [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#Adding%20Entries%20to%20Grub%202](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#Adding%20Entries%20to%20Grub%202)
 
 [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#Recover%20Grub%202%20via%20LiveCD](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#Recover%20Grub%202%20via%20LiveCD)
 
 [http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20/GRUB2%20CLI%20Mode%20Commands.html#cli_loopback]("http://members.iinet.net/%7Eherman546/p20/GRUB2%20CLI%20Mode%20Commands.html#cli_loopback")
 
 [http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20/GRUB2%20Splashimages.html]("http://members.iinet.net/%7Eherman546/p20/GRUB2%20Splashimages.html")

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1287602](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1287602)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1287967](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1287967)

In case grub2 is just too much, you may want to take a look at this;

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298932&highlight=kansasnoob](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298932&highlight=kansasnoob)

Some other links that are just interesting and may help or inspire some one;

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8099549&postcount=16](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8099549&postcount=16)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1285098#post8100252](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1285098#post8100252)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1288604](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1288604)


HAVE FUN

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-10-08
Good post. 

I can just see the absolute beginners forum after karmic being flooded with grub2 queries. Especially dual and multibooters.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-10-08
make that a sticky both here and on the beginners forum , nice work ranchhand :)

---

### Post by KegHead on 2009-10-08
hi!

i'm testing 9.10 on a dell mini 9 running only 9.10

is there any reason for me to enter sudo update-grub?

please advise and thanks for your help!

KegHead

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-08
> **KegHead said:**
> hi!

i'm testing 9.10 on a dell mini 9 running only 9.10

is there any reason for me to enter sudo update-grub?

please advise and thanks for your help!

KegHead
As long as everything is working, leave it alone.

When you update, watch the details when the updates are installed.  You can do this in any update method that you use.

Update grub gets run a lot.  Most grub2 updates  and all kernal updates have update-grub run.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-08
> **philinux said:**
> Good post. 

I can just see the absolute beginners forum after karmic being flooded with grub2 queries. Especially dual and multibooters.
Yes, I  think this could be a nightmare.

I really like this grub but it is going to be rough.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-08
> **ronacc said:**
> make that a sticky both here and on the beginners forum , nice work ranchhand :)
A sticky of some kind is needed for sure.  I have no idea how to get that done.

Thank you for your kind words.  I have fooled with it for a while.

I hope we can avoid having 8 million treads all on the theme of "where is my menu.lst" and "just edit your grub.cfg file".

---

### Post by ikisham on 2009-10-08
Thanks, ranch.
The other post about grub2 is good too and I followed it to create extra entries in my menu (Puppy frugal install, which wont be automatically detected). 50_.., 51_.., like that.
I couldn't get the 40_custom to work (it says it can hold several menu entries in it) but since it's working ok the way it is, that's ok. Yes, grub2's system is much more flexible.

It's nice that you posted a lot of links too.

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2009-10-08
Nice one ranch hand!

---

### Post by KegHead on 2009-10-08
hi!

thanks for the info ranch hand!

i'll follow this tread for more info1

KegHead

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-10-08
Excellent job!

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-08
> **kansasnoob said:**
> Excellent job!
Boy am I glad to hear from you.  I knew I forgot a link.

An escape may be the best way out for some folks.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-10-08
> **ranch hand said:**
> Boy am I glad to hear from you.  I knew I forgot a link.

An escape may be the best way out for some folks.

I rather hope very few decide to downgrade.

I've got it down to where I can flip from old to new or vice versa in about 15 minutes.

Yesterday after reinstalling Grub2 totally fresh just for fun I ran update-grub and only one menu entry was added that needn't be, everything else just worked like it should!

---

### Post by lompolo on 2009-10-08
Nice thread

Configfile is nice command too. For example
```
configfile /boot/grub/grub.cfg.old
```
loads previous configfile.

or
```
configfile (partition)/boot/grub/grub.cfg
```
where you have to tell right partition if there is problem finding the grub.cfg.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-10-08
Excellent! I've added this as the top link on my [Grub 2 Basics]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275") post.

I believe once a version is released the testing forum section is closed and archived. Hopefully this will be preserved on an active forum.

---

### Post by Faolan84 on 2009-10-09
I really like this new system of updating grub a lot better. Auto detection of installed operating systems with a single command? Who'd a thunk it? :P I say it's about time for this. I do hope that custom boot options will be saved from one kernel upgrade to the next like they are in legacy along with preserving entries as well because I use Grub to boot from my CDs instead of the BIOS for added security. Basically my menu looks like this:

==================================
Ubuntu - 9.04 - KERNEL X.XX
Ubuntu Recovery

Boot from DVD / CD-ROM
Boot from USB
==================================

Of course a password is needed to boot the last three options :P

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-09
The contents of your custom file are in /etc/grub.d/xx_custom.  It is the source of  your /boot/grub/grub.cfg file which, in turn, is the source of the menu you see.  Therefore, running update-grub, does not effect it.  As long as you use the generic (sybolic) menuentry it is being pointed at whatever is bootable on that partition.

You can format and reinstall and the menuentry will work.

What I like better than the updating of your menu, is the setting of what OS you are using as boor/root.  Boot to that OS, run "sudo grub-install /dev/sda" and in a few seconds it is finnished and that is your new boot/root.  I use this to try different menu entries in custom files.  As long as I can boot to one other OS, I can get changed back quicker than booting the CD, going through the grub find, etc, sutting down the CD and rebooting.  Really slick.

---

### Post by ljrmorgan on 2009-10-09
If we're going to have a "one thread to rule them all" on grub2, can someone post how to limit the number of kernels that appear in the list, I have too many already!

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-09
I would remove most of those kernals.  A lot of the updates we have had will not work if you go back 4 or 5.  One old one is all you need.

Os-prober is going to look for all of them.  If you make a custom menu file in /etc/grub.d that is booting all of your OS', you can change the permissions on 10_linux, 20memtest86+ and 30_os-prober.  Run update-grub.  Nothing on your menu but your custom entries.

---

### Post by VMC on 2009-10-09
> **ljrmorgan said:**
> If we're going to have a "one thread to rule them all" on grub2, can someone post how to limit the number of kernels that appear in the list, I have too many already!

[FONT="Courier New"]Computer janitor[/FONT] is very good at picking up old kernels and removing them for you.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-10-09
> **ljrmorgan said:**
> If we're going to have a "one thread to rule them all" on grub2, can someone post how to limit the number of kernels that appear in the list, I have too many already!

Hopefully a new version of StartUp-Manager will be developed or Grub 2 will add this functionality in the near future.

I am just finishing up a post on Grub 2 Menu Tweaks that will include a way to hide specific kernels. It is an alternative to creating a custom folder, but will be primarily for control freaks as the user must set pararmeters. 

Others will be able to expand and improve the tweaks I post. I hope to publish the post tomorrow.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2009-10-09
> **ljrmorgan said:**
> If we're going to have a "one thread to rule them all" on grub2, can someone post how to limit the number of kernels that appear in the list, I have too many already!

What I do:
open synaptic, search for "kernel" scroll down to kernel files, uninstall all the old kernels. They get removed from grub. And you free up a lot of space (80mb or so per kernel).

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-10-09
> **ljrmorgan said:**
> If we're going to have a "one thread to rule them all" on grub2, can someone post how to limit the number of kernels that appear in the list, I have too many already!

I think ranch hand and andrewabc pretty much covered this, but if you would like another summary of how to remove older kernels check Section 3, Removing Entries from Grub 2, in this post:
[Grub 2 Basics]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275")

---

### Post by HankB on 2009-10-10
I would add that if you have another Linux OS installed and it uses a /boot partition, then grub2 may not generate the proper grub.cfg entries and you will not be able to boot the other OS. (There do seem to be bug reports for this but I see no activity on them.)

You can work around this by providing your own entries as described in the first post that specify the /boot partition for the search line and specify the correct path for the initial RAM disk and kernel. More on this in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1284332](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1284332)

-hank

---

### Post by legolas_w on 2009-10-10
Hi,

How I can enter the recovery mode after installing grub2? 
Maybe something is wrong with my installation but it does not show any menu and directly start the boot process for ubuntu (I have upgraded from 9.4 to 9.10 and only have Ubuntu on my computer)

Thanks

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-10
Ah yes.  It is easy for me to forget these things.

When you install 9.10 as the only OS, "hidden menu" is default.

Hitting Esc does not work as in grub-legacy.  Hold your space bar down and that should bring up your menu.

I would get into your /etc/default/grub file and hash out the hidden menu stuff;
```

GRUB_DEFAULT=0
#GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true
GRUB_TIMEOUT="100"

```
As you can see it is only the one line you need to hash out.

You need to run;
```

sudo update-grub

```
to get this written to the /boot/grub/grub.cfg file.

Yes I have a long time out on the menu.  It is my box and I can be silly if I want to.

You should have no trouble with grub2 with only one OS on your box.  It uses a different script to get the menuentry for the OS you are on and it does a great job.

Some people have had trouble on some boxes with this;
```

menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-13-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        save_env recordfail
    set quiet=1
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,16)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 593f6939-f51c-496d-a90a-c7cb942a22af
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-13-generic root=UUID=593f6939-f51c-496d-a90a-c7cb942a22af ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-13-generic
}

```
causing booting problems.

Hit "e" in the grub menu to edit and remove the lines;
```

  recordfail=1
        save_env recordfail

```
and you should be fine.

If you have this problem I would make a custom entry so you don't need to worry about it.

---

### Post by legolas_w on 2009-10-11
Thank you very much ranch hand. It solved my problem.

---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2009-10-11
ranch tks for taking the time good informative thread

---

### Post by professorYaffle on 2009-10-11
I'm having some trouble trying to work out the grub2 config.

I've installed karmic beta on my (already dual boot) and had the usual "where's my existing OSses gone?" moment. I've run "update-grub" and that brought all the old choices back into the grub boot menu...

Probelm is - they don't work. Every last one of the "other" osses gives me this error "You need to load the kernel first" when I try to boot it. Even the old memtest86es don't work.

My main existing OS is ubuntu jaunty running off /dev/vg2/ujroot with /boot mount ed on /dev/sda1. For the karmic beta install I created a new boot partition (/dev/sda9) and a new root partition (/dev/vg2/ukbroot).

Both old and new installs were done with the "alternative" installer (in order to access the LVM).

This is the menu entry the OS prober generated for my main OS.

```
 menuentry "Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-15-generic (on /dev/mapper/vg2-ujroot)" {
         insmod lvm
         insmod ext2
         set root=(vg2-ujroot)
         search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 05b50872-4bbb-4682-afc0-cdd8b62a5df5
         linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-15-generic root=/dev/mapper/vg2-ujroot ro
         initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-15-generic
}
```This looks, to me, like the os-prober has completely missed the fact that /boot is a separate partition! (I think this used to work in previous versions.) I've tried to rewrite this entry as suggested at the start of this thread, also changing the device to the boot partition and removing /boot from the paths, but this still doesn't work:

```
menuentry "Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-15-generic (on /dev/mapper/vg2-ujroot)" {
         set root=(hd0,0)
         linux /vmlinuz-2.6.28-15-generic root=/dev/mapper/vg2-ujroot ro
         initrd /initrd.img-2.6.28-15-generic
}
```Any ideas what's wrong?

---

### Post by professorYaffle on 2009-10-11
> **professorYaffle said:**
> I'm having some trouble trying to work out the grub2 config.
Okay - I found the problem. Looks like "(hd0,0)" should be "(hd0,1)". This works, but is rather confusing! Has grub2 *really *switched to counting partitions from 1 instead of 0, but at the same time *not* switched counting disks from 0 to 1?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-10-11
> **professorYaffle said:**
> Okay - I found the problem. Looks like "(hd0,0)" should be "(hd0,1)". This works, but is rather confusing! Has grub2 *really *switched to counting partitions from 1 instead of 0, but at the same time *not* switched counting disks from 0 to 1?

Yes, that is correct. A bit confusing - you just have to remember it. ;-)

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2009-10-11
Ping ranch hand : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8087552&postcount=65](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8087552&postcount=65)
:)

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-11
> **bapoumba said:**
> Ping ranch hand : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8087552&postcount=65](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8087552&postcount=65)
:)
That is great.  This is going to be a bugger,  I think, and the more info out there the better.

drs305 has really been digging deep.  Really great stuff.  FUN too.

Thanks

---

### Post by stevetxt on 2009-10-11
I am trying to simplify my grub2 menu and have cleaned it up a bit and changed titles and unneeded entries thanks to these posts.  Now I'm wondering about the Memtest86 entries.  I get two: "Memory test (memtest86+)" and "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)".  

Can anyone advise why there are two and if it is a good idea or not to remove them from the menu by making the 20_memtest86+ file nonexecutable?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-11
I would like to know why there are two of the buggers too.  They seem to work the same.

If you don't use the memtest, I don't think most people do very often, you can certainly make the 20_memtest86+ file non-executable.  If you ever feel the need for it you can always change it back.

You could add an entry to your custom file for it too and just turn off 10_linux, 20_memtest96+, 30_os-prober and 40_custom (unless it is the one you are using for your custom emtries) and still havethe option of the memtest on your menu.

I have turned all that stuff off but it is back on again so that I can see what it is doing.  When I get a "real" install of 9.10 you can bet that stuff will be gone.

If you have it all turned off now you can't play with all the neat stuff that drs305 is coming up with.

---

### Post by stevetxt on 2009-10-11
What about the option

GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_RECOVERY=true

That would clean up the menu nicely, but is this a bad idea?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-11
That should work too, but not for the memtest stuff.

---

### Post by stevetxt on 2009-10-11
What I mean is, is it a bad idea to remove the recovery entries from the grub 2 menu?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-11
Well, that is up to you.  They are real handy when you need them.

This is a beta.  I want mine where I can get to it.

That said, I have several OS' booting with grub2 so if I can get into one of them, I can get to all of them easily.  If I wanted I could kill everything but the custom menu on all but one of them and boot from one of the short ones.  Then if i needed some thing more just change where I am booting from to the long one and have it all there.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-10-11
stevetxt,

If you don't have a recovery mode displayed, you can stop the G2 menu, select a menu item and press E, then on the linux /boot/vmlinuz.... line just add the word "single" and boot (CTRL-X).

The question is, will you remember this when your computer is crashing?  ;-)

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-11
> **drs305 said:**
> stevetxt,

If you don't have a recovery mode displayed, you can stop the G2 menu, select a menu item and press E, then on the linux /boot/vmlinuz.... line just add the word "single" and boot (CTRL-X).

The question is, will you remember this when your computer is crashing?  ;-)
I really like the symbolic menuentries.

I did not think that adding the "single" to them would work and I was right - bummer.  One thing they will not do.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-10-11
> **ranch hand said:**
> I really like the symbolic menuentries.

I did not think that adding the "single" to them would work and I was right - bummer.  One thing they will not do.

I boot a standard Karmic kernel from a grub-generated entry. If I add "single" to the end of the line below it boots to the recovery menu. I don't know if the "quiet splash" options would need to be removed if present on the line.
```

menuentry "karmic 2.6.31-13-generic" {
   recordfail=1
   save_env recordfail
   set quiet=1
   insmod ext2
   set root=(hd0,1)
   search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 1c5760dc-493c279382f0
   linux  /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-13-generic root=UUID=1c5760dc-493c279382f0 ro  **[COLOR="Red"]single[/COLOR]**
   initrd  /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-13-generic
}

```

---

### Post by stevetxt on 2009-10-11
I tried what drs305 suggested and it worked.  Plus, the grub2 menu reminds me to type "e" for edit and "control x" to boot.  Based on the discussion between drs305 and Ranch Hand I deleted the quiet splash on the line in which I wrote "single".  That got me to the recovery menu.  So, thanks, I am cleaning up my grub 2 menu some more by uncommenting the line in /etc/default/grub to disable the recovery options.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-11
Grub2 is plainly a little rough around the edges yet but it really is pretty neat as it is.  I think that you will like it.

---

### Post by stevetxt on 2009-10-11
Yeah, I do like it.  I'm just seeing now I can do things with it I could not with grub 1, like move things around to have the automatically generated kernels placed lower in the menu after custom entries if I want.  

Thanks you guys.  These posts on grub 2 have really been helpful --- and fun.

---

### Post by gtpitt on 2009-10-13
Please advise. 
I have 3 physical HDD in my desktop machine. GRUB2 works fine until I remove one. Then it gives an error, presumably due to (hd1,1) now being (hd0,1) etc. I have UUID in the config file. Why does it not use the UUID to find the root partition instead of the unreliable (hd0,1) method?
How do I make GRUB2 install itself to each physical disk so that it won't freak out when one of them gets removed? I have looked at the documentation and various forum entries for hours and I am none the wiser.
Please note the error happens even when the removed disk is NOT the hd0 disk.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-13
I do not know how your bios works nor do you say if all the drives are internal.

I have, right now, three drives.  They are;

Main=internal with my production OS

32bit test=internal with 32bit OS' (this box will run either as 32bit or 64bit)

External=64bit test platform is a dual SATA external enclosure

All of these boot independently.  If I work on the 32bit test I have the external switched off and the Main turned of in bios.  When I work on the external I have both internals turned off in bios.

Now I have also installed a 9.10 on the 32bit test while leaving the external turned on so that it boots both from the 32bit test.  As my bios are set to boot first from the a usb device, if I am going to boot from the 32bit I have to hit the boot menu when my bios screen comes up because if the external menu comes up it will not work (just like yours).

The external menu works fine if it is the only drive being used.

So, I do not know why this is the way it is.

I do know that it is easy to change which grub2 using OS that you boot from.  Therefore, if you can have the grub2 version change to another before you take a drive off line that is set up for the drives that are going  to be left.

---

### Post by grantbow on 2009-10-14
Thanks very much ranch hand for your posting!!  The added grub 2 functionality is needed, that's for sure.  Chain loading works OK on my machine.

I am bracing to see what this change will mean for beginners in a few short weeks.  On first impressions, the package name is the first thing that seems off to me.  Why grub-pc and not grub2 or even a meta package?

Documentation seems an issue right now.  The man pages are minimalistic.  I can't find any info pages at all on a default install even though I do see grub.texi in the package sources.  The grub-doc package is not grub2.

All the instructions I have found say to do some kind of script but my trials so far show that 40_custom is just appended via the command

```
exec tail -n +3 $0
```

Tracing the execution path through all these scripts will be quite a challenge for beginners.  Rough around the edges indeed.  I guess it's better to get it all over with than delay the inevitable.  There are some good opportunities here for people to contribute.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-10-14
@ grantbow,

I feel your pain. There *is* some good information available - it's just not consolidated and it's not official. In particular to your post, here is a guide for installing/testing GRUB 2:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Grub2Testing]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Grub2Testing")

In addition to ranch hand's excellent introduction, I have fairly extensive posts on Grub 2 Basics and Grub 2 Title Tweaks, and Herman's site has more information than most of us would want/need at 
[http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20.html]("http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20.html")

I spent a good portion of today working on what will be the official Ubuntu Community Documentation page, which will include some information on initial installations and settings. Most of what I know about, however, I've already posted in my threads so there won't be a lot of new information there I'm afraid.

I completely agree that there is going to be a steep learning curve for users new to Grub 2 and October 29th may be pretty messy. I doubt it will happen, but I agree with ranch hand that there should probably be a separate GRUB 2 forum available - at least initially. That would at minimum consolidate all the posts about GRUB into one place where a new user could go for guidance and information.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-14
> **grantbow said:**
> Thanks very much ranch hand for your posting!!  The added grub 2 functionality is needed, that's for sure.  Chain loading works OK on my machine.

I am bracing to see what this change will mean for beginners in a few short weeks.  On first impressions, the package name is the first thing that seems off to me.  Why grub-pc and not grub2 or even a meta package?

Documentation seems an issue right now.  The man pages are minimalistic.  I can't find any info pages at all on a default install even though I do see grub.texi in the package sources.  The grub-doc package is not grub2.

All the instructions I have found say to do some kind of script but my trials so far show that 40_custom is just appended via the command

```
exec tail -n +3 $0
```Tracing the execution path through all these scripts will be quite a challenge for beginners.  Rough around the edges indeed.  I guess it's better to get it all over with than delay the inevitable.  There are some good opportunities here for people to contribute.
Well, thank you for the kind words.  I think I probably owed the "community" something for all the help I have received.

I agree with everything drs305 has said.  One of the reasons for my post was to put links up to information from him and herman and the wiki and where ever else I can find stuff that people can use.

I also wanted it to be non-threatening to bewildered folks who have a new and very different boatloader.

I think actual noobs, say dual booting with  Win Jerry Lewis Pro for their first Linux experience, will actually have little trouble with this.

We really do need a sticky in the ABT forum and, while the idea was not mine in the first place, a sub-forum would not be bad either.

I think grub2 is going to be better than grub-legacy.  I have only been at this a year and I have come to dearly love grub-legacy.  Grub2 is causing my eye to wonder.

---

### Post by grantbow on 2009-10-16
A new forum is a great idea! :KS It's the first thing I looked for on ubuntuforums.org when I had Grub2 issues.  While it may be an unusual thing for the forums council to consider, the ubiquity of the default boot loader (everyone uses a boot loader) and the lack of comprehensive Grub2 documentation might warrant this to consolidate tips and tricks rather than have them scattered across the forums.

First Thursdays, hmm.  Next Council meeting will be a bit late for the release but not too late for the Grub2 users looking for help.  [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncilAgenda](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncilAgenda)

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-10-16
> **grantbow said:**
> A new forum is a great idea! :KS It's the first thing I looked for on ubuntuforums.org when I had Grub2 issues.  While it may be an unusual thing for the forums council to consider, the ubiquity of the default boot loader (everyone uses a boot loader) and the lack of comprehensive Grub2 documentation might warrant this to consolidate tips and tricks rather than have them scattered across the forums.

First Thursdays, hmm.  Next Council meeting will be a bit late for the release but not too late for the Grub2 users looking for help.  [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncilAgenda](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncilAgenda)

No kiddin":

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1254972](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1254972)

:guitar:

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-17
> **grantbow said:**
> A new forum is a great idea! :KS It's the first thing I looked for on ubuntuforums.org when I had Grub2 issues.  While it may be an unusual thing for the forums council to consider, the ubiquity of the default boot loader (everyone uses a boot loader) and the lack of comprehensive Grub2 documentation might warrant this to consolidate tips and tricks rather than have them scattered across the forums.

First Thursdays, hmm.  Next Council meeting will be a bit late for the release but not too late for the Grub2 users looking for help.  [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncilAgenda](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncilAgenda)
The problem that I have is that I have no idea what I will be doing from day to day.  I am a currently unemployed ranch hand.

This means that I need all the "day work" I can get (day work pays by the day and is good for a day or a week or a month - who knows).

Today, for instance, was planned to be a day of a little concrete work on the foundation here, a little work on the wood stove in the dreaded mother in laws garage.  Instead I am sitting here updating 9.10 32bit installs waiting for a guy to pick me up for some riding job that may not happen today but tomorrow.

I am not a good person to propose an agenda item.  They seem to think that if you propose something, you should show up.  Seems reasonable to me.

---

### Post by zak89 on 2009-10-18
I've been scouting around the various Grub 2 guides on this forum, and there's one issue I can't figure out; how do you pass in options (like vga=xxx) to the various entries? I can't find anything on editing existing Grub 2 menu etries; just adding/deleting. Is there any way to pass in custom options for the various OS kernel lines?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-18
First, try editing the menu when it comes up by pressing "e".  Add your addition and boot.  See if it works.

Assuming it works, make a custom folder and add your edition to a custom menuentry.

I am a little groggy from being horse back for the first time in months (long unemployment and illness), I am whipped and very happy to be back in the saddle.  Simpler even than I nromally am though.

So I hope that helps.

---

### Post by VMC on 2009-10-18
ranch hand, since they removed this as a sticky, why not add it in your signature. See mine below. That way it gets carried where ever you go.

One of the great things about this topic is all the links you have listed on the first page. 

I hope you keep it updated when you run across new ones. thanks!

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-10-18
> **zak89 said:**
> I've been scouting around the various Grub 2 guides on this forum, and there's one issue I can't figure out; how do you pass in options (like vga=xxx) to the various entries? I can't find anything on editing existing Grub 2 menu etries; just adding/deleting. Is there any way to pass in custom options for the various OS kernel lines?

You add that to the /etc/default/grub file in the following line
> 
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="vga=791"

Save the file, run "sudo update-grub" and you should get a result in /boot/grub/grub.cfg something like this:

> 
linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-13 root=UUID=cb201140-8ce8 ro vga=791  quiet splash

(Number is for demonstration only).

The "linux" line replaces the "kernel" line from grub.

The line you added this to puts it in normal and recovery modes, which I suppose you would want for a video setting. Another line will put it in normal mode only.

See Grub Basics link in my signature line for the explanation.

---

### Post by zak89 on 2009-10-19
Thanks, guys. That answers my question perfectly.

---

### Post by legolas_w on 2009-10-20
Hello everyone.
I thought my problem might be related to GRUB 2 so I post a notification here.

After the grub OS selection menu I see some console stuff instead of xsplash.... is it related to GRUB 2?



I have another thread for this problem with some screenshots for a week but I have not found any solution so far. Would you please take a look?

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8135074#post8135074](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8135074#post8135074)

Thanks

---

### Post by nema.arpit on 2009-10-23
I recently formatted my hdd,installed win7 followed by Karmic rc. Following this I planned to install Arch,but the grub2 setup has me baffled.
After reading up a bit, I concluded it should be able to auto-detect my arch installation, and so I proceeded to install arch.
I have a separate boot partition,and since grub2 was supposed to autodetect, I **skipped installing a bootloader during arch install ,**since it would have left me unable to boot into Karmic.
From Karmic, I ran update-grub and it succesfully detected arch installation but it does not boot,saying something like "**You need to load Kernel first**". Further the name of the menuentry is also Ubuntu and the kernel version is also different from that of Arch.

Any advice on what install process should I follow to have arch running as well,would be much appreciated.

Here is my grub.cfg:
```

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,9)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 844f32db-8639-443c-81de-5cd5ad45b0fd
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    set quiet=1
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,4)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 444184f8-8c91-4056-9794-d9665364c075
    linux    /vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=844f32db-8639-443c-81de-5cd5ad45b0fd ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,4)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 444184f8-8c91-4056-9794-d9665364c075
    linux    /vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=844f32db-8639-443c-81de-5cd5ad45b0fd ro single 
    initrd    /initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    linux16    /memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    linux16    /memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sda1)" {
    insmod ntfs
    set root=(hd0,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec42bd5b42bd2b6a
    chainloader +1
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (on /dev/sda8)" {
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,8)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 2c54715c-378c-419f-8a91-afcf3826b9f0
    linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=844f32db-8639-443c-81de-5cd5ad45b0fd ro quiet splash
    initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode) (on /dev/sda8)" {
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,8)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 2c54715c-378c-419f-8a91-afcf3826b9f0
    linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=844f32db-8639-443c-81de-5cd5ad45b0fd ro single
    initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

```Also here is the output of update-grub:
```

Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /memtest86+.bin
Found Windows 7 (loader) on /dev/sda1
Found Arch on /dev/sda8
done


```

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-10-23
nema.arpit,

Do you also happen to have an old Ubuntu install on sda8 that it could be detecting?

I haven't used Arch, but just to try to get it into the menu here is what I would do:

Open 40_custom with a root text editor ( gksu gedit /etc/grub.d/40_custom ).

Leave the first 4 lines alone and add this:
> 
menuentry "Arch on sda8" {
    insmod ext2
    set root=[noparse](hd0,8)[/noparse]
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 2c54715c-378c-419f-8a91-afcf3826b9f0
    **linux** /boot/**vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic** root=UUID=844f32db-8639-443c-81de-5cd5ad45b0fd ro quiet splash
    **initrd** /boot/**initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic**
}


You are probably familiar with what an Arch menu looks like, so just edit the areas in **bold** to comply with the Arch files.

Save the file, then run "sudo update-grub" and that menu item should be incorporated into the GRUB 2 menu.

This is a temporary solution until you/others can figure out why the os-prober isn't picking up the correct information.

---

### Post by nema.arpit on 2009-10-24
Ok I got this problem solved.
Working menuentry :
```

menuentry "Arch" {
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,4)
    linux /vmlinuz26 root=/dev/sda8 ro quiet splash acpi_osi="Linux"
    initrd /kernel26.img
}

```(hda0,4) : my grub partition
sda8 : arch partition
The options after sda8 are optional.
I removed "search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 2c54715c-378c-419f-8a91-afcf3826b9f0" because the uuid value was not correct and I don't know if this line is really necessary.
I expect it would work fine with the corrected uuid values :
[B]--set [UUID of grub partition]
[/B]
(edit)Does not work with
**root=UUID=[UUID of arch partition] **- it tries to detect the partition but fails. It works well with root=/dev/sda8
[B] 

PS[/B] Dont copy and paste from the post, it seems to generate a syntax error even if it is correct.It's better to copy from the grub.cfg and edit as needed.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-24
This is very interesting, I have been wondering how menu entries like this would work outside of Ubuntu.

I have this that is booting all my 9.10 installs;
```

         menuentry "KinkyA4 on sda20" { 
         set root=(hd0,20) 
         linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda20 so quiet splash 
         initrd /initrd.img 
 }

```As you can see it is the same, except for your additional instructions in the one line.


Good job.

---

### Post by cyberkilla on 2009-10-24
Hello, I hear that the default behaviour is for GRUB2 to automatically boot unless you press SHIFT.

Unfortunately, if you have memtest and Vista in the GRUB list, it doesn't. Is there a way to force the "skip UI unless SHIFT down" behaviour?

Thanks:)

---

### Post by VMC on 2009-10-24
> **ranch hand said:**
> This is very interesting, I have been wondering how menu entries like this would work outside of Ubuntu.

I have this that is booting all my 9.10 installs;
```

         menuentry "KinkyA4 on sda20" { 
         set root=(hd0,20) 
         linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda20 so quiet splash 
         initrd /initrd.img 
 }

```As you can see it is the same, except for your additional instructions in the one line.


Good job.

Your doing the same thing with, ro, quiet, splash.
Apparently he needs the acpi_osi="Linux" line to work with his Archlinux.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-24
> **cyberkilla said:**
> Hello, I hear that the default behaviour is for GRUB2 to automatically boot unless you press SHIFT.

Unfortunately, if you have memtest and Vista in the GRUB list, it doesn't. Is there a way to force the "skip UI unless SHIFT down" behaviour?

Thanks:)
You should be able to go to /etc/default/grub and uncomment the hidden menu entry and that should do it.

---

### Post by richlyn9 on 2009-10-24
i have posted my issue here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298574&highlight=grub2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298574&highlight=grub2)

however lemme explain it again from scratch.
I have a multiboot on two HDD
windows xp  and intrepid on sda with a dedicated grub partition and now installed kramic on sdb.

i did a kramic fresh install and updated  intrepid to grub2 then booted with my kramic live cd and updated the grub partition. however at boot a get the gfrub prompt.

what needs to be done  ahead to configure grub2 totally?

---

### Post by woodbj on 2009-10-25
I just set up Fedora and wanted to add it to my Grub 2 list and its not coming up with update-grub

```
/dev/sda1: SEC_TYPE="msdos" LABEL="DellUtility" UUID="3030-3030" TYPE="vfat" 
/dev/sda2: UUID="FE726D38726CF6B5" LABEL="RECOVERY" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda3: UUID="1E286292286268AB" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda5: UUID="3c7f3157-e27a-40bd-8931-42d7a401a80b" TYPE="swap" 
/dev/sda6: LABEL="Ubuntu" UUID="8e8afc66-7377-498b-a2b8-231ab0dcb991" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sda7: LABEL="Home" UUID="d05dd653-4278-4881-8f63-34ebaede0abd" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sda8: LABEL="F12-Beta-x86_64-" UUID="465798e0-e1fc-4e32-9fff-0ea1b548fdeb" TYPE="ext4"
```

I put ```
menuentry "Fedora" {
        set root=(hd0,8)
        linux /vmlinuz-2.6.31.1-56.fc12.x86_64 root=/dev/sda8 ro quiet splash
        initrd /initramfs-2.6.31.1-56.fc12.x86_64.img
}
``` in 40_custom and when I go to bppt fedora it says error: need to load kernel first

Changed ```
linux /vmlinuz-2.6.31.1-56.fc12.x86_64 root=/dev/sda8 ro quiet splash
        initrd /initramfs-2.6.31.1-56.fc12.x86_64.img
```
to ```
linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31.1-56.fc12.x86_64 root=/dev/sda8 ro quiet splash
        initrd /boot/initramfs-2.6.31.1-56.fc12.x86_64.img
``` and all is now good

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-25
> **woodbj said:**
> I just set up Fedora and wanted to add it to my Grub 2 list and its not coming up with update-grub

```
/dev/sda1: SEC_TYPE="msdos" LABEL="DellUtility" UUID="3030-3030" TYPE="vfat" 
/dev/sda2: UUID="FE726D38726CF6B5" LABEL="RECOVERY" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda3: UUID="1E286292286268AB" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda5: UUID="3c7f3157-e27a-40bd-8931-42d7a401a80b" TYPE="swap" 
/dev/sda6: LABEL="Ubuntu" UUID="8e8afc66-7377-498b-a2b8-231ab0dcb991" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sda7: LABEL="Home" UUID="d05dd653-4278-4881-8f63-34ebaede0abd" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sda8: LABEL="F12-Beta-x86_64-" UUID="465798e0-e1fc-4e32-9fff-0ea1b548fdeb" TYPE="ext4"
```I put ```
menuentry "Fedora" {
        set root=(hd0,8)
        cc
}
``` in 40_custom and when I go to bppt fedora it says error: need to load kernel first

Changed ```
linux /vmlinuz-2.6.31.1-56.fc12.x86_64 root=/dev/sda8 ro quiet splash
        initrd /initramfs-2.6.31.1-56.fc12.x86_64.img
```to ```
linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31.1-56.fc12.x86_64 root=/dev/sda8 ro quiet splash
        initrd /boot/initramfs-2.6.31.1-56.fc12.x86_64.img
``` and all is now good
Is Fedora on the #8 partition?

Grub2 counts the drives like grub-legacy but partitions like gparted, so if Fedora is on the #9 partition it should be (hd0,9)
EDIT
Sorry, need to go to bed, can't read.  8 it is.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-25
Try this with your Fedora;
```

echo "Adding DailyGrub on sda22" >&2
cat << EOF
menuentry "Adding DailyGrub on sda22" {
        set root=(hd0,22)
        linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda22 ro quiet splash
        initrd /initrd.img
}
EOF

```
You need to edit it to your box of coarse. 

Should boot about anything in the partition.

---

### Post by VMC on 2009-10-25
> **richlyn9 said:**
> i have posted my issue here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298574&highlight=grub2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298574&highlight=grub2)

however lemme explain it again from scratch.
I have a multiboot on two HDD
windows xp  and intrepid on sda with a dedicated grub partition and now installed kramic on sdb.

i did a kramic fresh install and updated  intrepid to grub2 then booted with my kramic live cd and updated the grub partition. however at boot a get the gfrub prompt.

what needs to be done  ahead to configure grub2 totally?

Well, "Rub-A-Dub-Dub, Two-Grubs-in-a-tub"

Sounds like you tried to install grub all over the place. 

It's best to install grub2 on the first hard drive or your asking for issues. Did you use the command "grub-install /dev/sda" from karmic. No, I see, you used the livecd. You need to chroot to the karmic install.

Follow this [link]("http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1156240.html") to chroot, then use "grub-install /dev/sda".

---

### Post by woodbj on 2009-10-25
> **ranch hand said:**
> Try this with your Fedora;
```

echo "Adding DailyGrub on sda22" >&2
cat << EOF
menuentry "Adding DailyGrub on sda22" {
        set root=(hd0,22)
        linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda22 ro quiet splash
        initrd /initrd.img
}
EOF

```
You need to edit it to your box of coarse. 

Should boot about anything in the partition.

Thanks for that

---

### Post by richlyn9 on 2009-10-25
> **VMC said:**
> Well, "Rub-A-Dub-Dub, Two-Grubs-in-a-tub"

Sounds like you tried to install grub all over the place. 



yeah i was sooooooo  fustrated i tried it all over the place 

> **VMC said:**
>  Did you use the command "grub-install /dev/sda" from karmic. No, I see, you used the livecd. You need to chroot to the karmic install.


i was unable to boot to kramic as on boot nothing comes other than the grub menu "grub>":mad:

 Thanks for replying ...at least someone is and i will revert after looking up the links mentioned!!:)
i will need to install grub only in the dedicated grub partition right?
need to undo the "installing" that i did all-over?do i?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-25
This is a /boot partition that you keep referring to is it not?

If that is true, that is great.  Your boot information will come from there.  You still need to;
```

sudo grub-install /dev/sda

```
to get that information to your MBR so that it can work.

---

### Post by richlyn9 on 2009-10-25
> **richlyn9 said:**
> 

 and i will revert after looking up the links mentioned!!:)


i tried but now i am tired!
kindly assist me ....
To run a command as administrator (user "root"), use "sudo <command>".
See "man sudo_root" for details.

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xa64ca64c

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        2550    20482843+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            2551        5099    20474842+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3            5100       19457   115330635    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda5            5100        8953    30957223+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda6            8954       12809    30973288+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda7           12810       13052     1951866   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda8           13053       16294    26041333+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda9           16295       19456    25398733+  83  Linux
/dev/sda10          19457       19457        8001   83  Linux

Disk /dev/sdb: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xae1f8566

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1        1245    10000431   83  Linux
/dev/sdb2            1246       60801   478383570    5  Extended
/dev/sdb5            1246       60801   478383538+  83  Linux
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ ^C
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mkdir /dev/sda10
mkdir: cannot create directory `/dev/sda10': File exists
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mkdir /mount/point
mkdir: cannot create directory `/mount/point': No such file or directory
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mkdir /media/kramic
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /media/kramic
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo chroot /media/kramic
root@ubuntu:/# grub-install --root-directory=/media/sda10  /dev/sda
mkdir: cannot create directory `/media/sda10/boot': No such file or directory
root@ubuntu:/# sudo mkdir /media/sda10
sudo: unable to resolve host ubuntu
root@ubuntu:/# grub-install /dev/sda10
grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for /boot/grub.

No path or device is specified.
Try ``grub-probe --help'' for more information.
Auto-detection of a filesystem module failed.
Please specify the module with the option `--modules' explicitly.
root@ubuntu:/# mkdir /media/sda10
mkdir: cannot create directory `/media/sda10': File exists
root@ubuntu:/# cp /etc/resolv.conf /media/kramic/etc/resolv.conf
cp: cannot stat `/etc/resolv.conf': No such file or directory
root@ubuntu:/# chroot /media/kramic /bin/bash
chroot: cannot change root directory to /media/kramic: No such file or directory
root@ubuntu:/# /bin/bash
root@ubuntu:/# grub-install /dev/sda10
grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for /boot/grub.

No path or device is specified.
Try ``grub-probe --help'' for more information.
Auto-detection of a filesystem module failed.
Please specify the module with the option `--modules' explicitly.
root@ubuntu:/# 





i somehow dont know what to do......

---

### Post by richlyn9 on 2009-10-25
> **richlyn9 said:**
> 
i will need to install grub only in the dedicated grub partition right?
need to undo the "installing" that i did all-over?do i?

i tried it but i am tired!!!

please correct my commands...kinda new in the area!

To run a command as administrator (user "root"), use "sudo <command>".
See "man sudo_root" for details.

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xa64ca64c

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        2550    20482843+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            2551        5099    20474842+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3            5100       19457   115330635    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda5            5100        8953    30957223+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda6            8954       12809    30973288+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda7           12810       13052     1951866   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda8           13053       16294    26041333+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda9           16295       19456    25398733+  83  Linux
/dev/sda10          19457       19457        8001   83  Linux

Disk /dev/sdb: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xae1f8566

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1        1245    10000431   83  Linux
/dev/sdb2            1246       60801   478383570    5  Extended
/dev/sdb5            1246       60801   478383538+  83  Linux
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ ^C
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mkdir /dev/sda10
mkdir: cannot create directory `/dev/sda10': File exists
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mkdir /mount/point
mkdir: cannot create directory `/mount/point': No such file or directory
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mkdir /media/kramic
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /media/kramic
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo chroot /media/kramic
root@ubuntu:/# grub-install --root-directory=/media/sda10  /dev/sda
mkdir: cannot create directory `/media/sda10/boot': No such file or directory
root@ubuntu:/# sudo mkdir /media/sda10
sudo: unable to resolve host ubuntu
root@ubuntu:/# grub-install /dev/sda10
grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for /boot/grub.

No path or device is specified.
Try ``grub-probe --help'' for more information.
Auto-detection of a filesystem module failed.
Please specify the module with the option `--modules' explicitly.
root@ubuntu:/# mkdir /media/sda10
mkdir: cannot create directory `/media/sda10': File exists
root@ubuntu:/# cp /etc/resolv.conf /media/kramic/etc/resolv.conf
cp: cannot stat `/etc/resolv.conf': No such file or directory
root@ubuntu:/# chroot /media/kramic /bin/bash
chroot: cannot change root directory to /media/kramic: No such file or directory
root@ubuntu:/# /bin/bash
root@ubuntu:/# grub-install /dev/sda10
grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for /boot/grub.

No path or device is specified.
Try ``grub-probe --help'' for more information.
Auto-detection of a filesystem module failed.
Please specify the module with the option `--modules' explicitly.
root@ubuntu:/# 





i somehow dont know hat to do......

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-25
OK, first let us get some things straight in my old brain.

What is on sda9?

Does every thing on the 9.04 menu work?

Please quit trying to install grub 2 on a partition.

Please run and post results from;
```

blkid

```
No "sudo" needed in this command at all.

---

### Post by onlyconnect on 2009-10-25
I have Ubuntu 9.04 server running lvm raid. This used to boot with lilo because of the lvm support, but lilo doesn't work with the latest kernel (after 2.6.28-14-server) for some reason. So I've been trying grub2.

I've successfully booted with grub2 from a usb flash drive. I'd like to boot grub2 from hard drive too. I run the command:

grub-install --modules="pc ext2 biosdisk gpt chain lvm" /dev/sda

I get the following output:

error: no such partiton
grub-setup: error: Core image is too big for embedding, but this is required when the root device is on a RAID array or LVM volume.

Any ideas?

Tim

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-25
I am not up on servers or encrypted drives.  I believe that Herman has something about that on his site because he runs that way too.

It is the first link on the first post here.

The second link may have something on it now too, I haven't been there real recently and it is updated regularly.

---

### Post by onlyconnect on 2009-10-25
> **ranch hand said:**
> I am not up on servers or encrypted drives.  I believe that Herman has something about that on his site because he runs that way too.

It is the first link on the first post here.

The second link may have something on it now too, I haven't been there real recently and it is updated regularly.

Thanks, I've trawled through lots of links to no avail. That said, there is reference to bugs involving the error message I saw so it might be fixed in a newer build - but I don't really want to do my own build.

Tim

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-25
OK.

I thought herman had gotten it to work for him and said how on one of his pages.

---

### Post by Garyu on 2009-10-25
I haven't tried Karmic yet. But seriously, after reading your little guide; this really sounds like something that needs an interface in Gnome/KDE.

Shouldn't be too difficult to put together an app that does this for the users, right? I'm not a linux programmer, so I can't do it, but surely someone who is used to making apps this one should be a breeze. And needed, from what it seems.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-25
I like it the way it is but, there is always a but, the guy that does the Start Up Manager is supposed to be putting out a grub2 version.

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2009-10-25
I just got done with my multi-boot system and after messing between Grub2 and Grub Legacy so much Grub2 definitely takes the cake.

Its just way better at detecting other OS's. The loader is a bit of a mess at the moment with its entries and needs some improvement but it works non the less.

ReactOS, PC-BSD, OpenSolaris and Fedora werent detected after installation of Kubuntu(Karmic-Grub2) but it got openSUSE, !#Crunchbang, Xubuntu(Karmic), Linux Mint and sees the entry for Mandriva but it doesnt boot.

I havent gone in and run os-prober yet though.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-25
I would just run update-grub first and then check you grub.cfg file to see if it picked them up.  It should be running os-prober.

If you get a different result running os-prober from terminal, you should probably file a bug.

Try the custom entry stuff forthose that won't boot.  You have a bunch that I don't and I would like to know how many will boot on the "generic" or symbolic entry.

BSD should (with slight additions), Fedora I think does.  I haven't tried Mandriva because of the entry (in the 1st post) that I have been using.

Mandriva will boot from the generated menu.  You pick the first one of however many you get, hit "e" and look at the 2 places it defines the partition.  The second one is one partition lower.  Change that to match the 1st one and hit Ctrl+x and watch it boot.  They are getting better.

I expect some os-prober updates after the Final that will improve it more.

Please try that "generic" entry.  You even have that crazy ReAct OS.  I love that entry because, like the one I am using on Mandriva, it just looks for the partition.  I haven't tried the one I use for mandriva on others but it might do the same, but I have, with the generic, just formated and installed another Ubuntu and never even needed to change the menu entry (I did chage them after trying them - I needed a different title.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2009-10-25
I've heard people say that grub2 is silent and you don't see it unless you press a button.

I've installed ubuntu 9.10 beta on an old computer (fully updated), and it shows grub for 10 seconds (it is grub 1.97 beta 3 I think).

Was this a change made after the beta or is my grub not doing what they want (bug)?

Also grub 1.97 was released today.
[GRUB 2.0 Moves Closer With GRUB 1.97 Release](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NzYzOQ)

Will ubuntu 9.10 get this since they were running 1.97 beta?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-10-25
> **andrewabc said:**
> I've heard people say that grub2 is silent and you don't see it unless you press a button.

I've installed ubuntu 9.10 beta on an old computer (fully updated), and it shows grub for 10 seconds (it is grub 1.97 beta 3 I think).

Was this a change made after the beta or is my grub not doing what they want (bug)?

Also grub 1.97 was released today.
[GRUB 2.0 Moves Closer With GRUB 1.97 Release](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NzYzOQ)

Will ubuntu 9.10 get this since they were running 1.97 beta?

The intent was for G2 to boot directly to the desktop if there were no other operating systems detected. That is, if Ubuntu were your only operating system, it would just boot to the the latest kernel. That was to be the default action for the first boot, until and unless the user decided to change it.

If there were multiple operating systems, G2 was going to display the menu so the user could decide. The intent was to get GRUB 2 out of the picture as much as possible and get the user to the Desktop as efficiently as possible.

There are still some outstanding issues with the Hidden Display option. I know that just a few days ago the devs were asking for inputs about who was still getting the menu on dual boot systems, so apparently they are still trying to work the kinks out of the menu display options.

---

### Post by VMC on 2009-10-25
> **andrewabc said:**
> Also grub 1.97 was released today.
[GRUB 2.0 Moves Closer With GRUB 1.97 Release](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NzYzOQ)

Will ubuntu 9.10 get this since they were running 1.97 beta?
Thanks for the find. BSD's and more RAID support among some interesting updates.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2009-10-25
> **drs305 said:**
> 
If there were multiple operating systems, G2 was going to display the menu so the user could decide. The intent was to get GRUB 2 out of the picture as much as possible and get the user to the Desktop as efficiently as possible.

Ok, there is winxp and ubuntu 9.04 installed on same computer. So that could be why. I'll probably format and just put 9.10 when released.

It is 80gb hard drive. winxp has most. ubuntu 9.04 has 10gb I think.

9.10 (formerly 8.04 partition) has 4 gb. I figure formatting and installing 9.10 on entire disk should make it slightly faster (7 year old computer). Since OS and apps would be installed at best part of disk.

---

### Post by kstarkey1 on 2009-10-26
ranch hand,
Thanks for all that you're doing here!  You help is greatly appreciated!

I hate to join in the chorus of questions, but here goes.

I've got a single-boot Karmic laptop.  All updates have been applied.

Ever since this morning the grub2 menu appears and if I go away for > 30 minutes it's still there when I come back (not sure how long it's set for).  How can I get it to take the first entry and go with it.  If I hit the enter key everythings cool.  I just want it to show the grub2 screen for a ~3 seconds and then go with the first entry.

It seems like that should be simple, but I'm not getting it.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks!

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-10-26
> **kstarkey1 said:**
> 
Ever since this morning the grub2 menu appears and if I go away for > 30 minutes it's still there when I come back (not sure how long it's set for).  How can I get it to take the first entry and go with it.  If I hit the enter key everythings cool.  I just want it to show the grub2 screen for a ~3 seconds and then go with the first entry.


Open /etc/default/grub for editing as root:
```

gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub

```

Make it look like the following:
> 
GRUB_DEFAULT=**[COLOR="DarkRed"]0[/COLOR]**
**#**GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true
GRUB_TIMEOUT=3


Leave the "[COLOR="DarkRed"]DEFAULT=[/COLOR]" line with whatever it is currently set to if it is defaulting to what you want.

After saving the changes:
```

sudo update-grub

```

---

### Post by kstarkey1 on 2009-10-26
> **drs305 said:**
> Open /etc/default/grub for editing as root:
```

gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub

```

Make it look like the following:


Leave the "[COLOR="DarkRed"]DEFAULT=[/COLOR]" line with whatever it is currently set to if it is defaulting to what you want.

After saving the changes:
```

sudo update-grub

```

Thanks for the help drs305, but that didn't fix it.  I made the change, ran sudo update-grub, and rebooted to test it out.  Same as before.

Here's what's in my /etc/default/grub file:

```

GRUB_DEFAULT=0
#GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true
GRUB_TIMEOUT=3
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""

```

Anything else I can try?

Thanks,

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-10-27
> **kstarkey1 said:**
> 
Anything else I can try?


There is a section in /boot/grub/grub.cfg about "recordfail" and if the value is "-1" then the  menu won't advance automatically. The "recordfail" is also generated in the /etc/grub.d/10_linux entry. 

A possibility is that at the value is 'stuck' on one.

There could be a much simpler explanation and I hesitate to give you instructions on how to disassemble the watch when all it needs is to be wound up! But here it goes anyway.  ;-)

If you would like to briefly tinker to see if this is the cause, you could run this and see if it boots. I wouldn't leave it there permanently, just if you are curious.

```
sudo sed 's/timeout=-1/timeout=3/g' -i /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```

This is strictly an exercise. It won't mess up your boot but is not a permanent solution. You can reset the value by running "sudo update-grub".

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-27
This is real interesting.

Is your menu still visible?

With only one OS on your box it should never have been visible.  So, the first thing to do is;
```

ubuntu-bug grub2

```
and follow the directions.

How about showing us your /boot/grub/grub.cfg file.  It should have all that information in it and it sounds like it doesn't.

Just for fun, try running;
```

sudo grub-mkconfig

```

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-27
> **drs305 said:**
> There is a section in /boot/grub/grub.cfg about "recordfail" and if the value is "-1" then the  menu won't advance automatically. The "recordfail" is also generated in the /etc/grub.d/10_linux entry. 

A possibility is that at the value is 'stuck' on one.

There could be a much simpler explanation and I hesitate to give you instructions on how to disassemble the watch when all it needs is to be wound up! But here it goes anyway.  ;-)

If you would like to briefly tinker to see if this is the cause, you could run this and see if it boots. I wouldn't leave it there permanently, just if you are curious.

```
sudo sed 's/timeout=-1/timeout=3/g' -i /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```This is strictly an exercise. It won't mess up your boot but is not a permanent solution. You can reset the value by running "sudo update-grub".
You may be on to something here.

It sure acts stuck on something.

---

### Post by kstarkey1 on 2009-10-27
> **ranch hand said:**
> This is real interesting.

Is your menu still visible?


It's still visible (see here): [http://twitpic.com/n5ivk]("http://twitpic.com/n5ivk")

Here's my /boot/default/grub.cfg
```

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,1)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set f973cc35-65c0-4b83-b71b-3484e63643d1
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=3
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	set quiet=1
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set f973cc35-65c0-4b83-b71b-3484e63643d1
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=f973cc35-65c0-4b83-b71b-3484e63643d1 ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set f973cc35-65c0-4b83-b71b-3484e63643d1
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=f973cc35-65c0-4b83-b71b-3484e63643d1 ro single 
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

```

I'll try running those command you suggested next

---

### Post by kstarkey1 on 2009-10-27
> **drs305 said:**
> There is a section in /boot/grub/grub.cfg about "recordfail" and if the value is "-1" then the  menu won't advance automatically. The "recordfail" is also generated in the /etc/grub.d/10_linux entry. 

A possibility is that at the value is 'stuck' on one.

There could be a much simpler explanation and I hesitate to give you instructions on how to disassemble the watch when all it needs is to be wound up! But here it goes anyway.  ;-)

If you would like to briefly tinker to see if this is the cause, you could run this and see if it boots. I wouldn't leave it there permanently, just if you are curious.

```
sudo sed 's/timeout=-1/timeout=3/g' -i /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```

This is strictly an exercise. It won't mess up your boot but is not a permanent solution. You can reset the value by running "sudo update-grub".

Thanks drs305!

This kinda worked.  I still saw the grub2 boot menu (I suppose I'm not even supposed to be seeing this??), and it stayed on screen for ~3 seconds,

So what do you think this means then?

---

### Post by kstarkey1 on 2009-10-27
> **ranch hand said:**
> This is real interesting.

Is your menu still visible?

With only one OS on your box it should never have been visible.  So, the first thing to do is;
```

ubuntu-bug grub2

```
and follow the directions.

How about showing us your /boot/grub/grub.cfg file.  It should have all that information in it and it sounds like it doesn't.

Just for fun, try running;
```

sudo grub-mkconfig

```

Ok, I submitted a bug report for this.

And I just ran sudo grub-mkconfig.  I guess I'll reboot and see it that did anything.

---

### Post by kstarkey1 on 2009-10-27
Well, rebooted, but nothing seems to have changed.  It booted to the grub2 menu and just sat there waiting for me to hit enter.

Any thoughts?

Thanks,

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-10-27
> **kstarkey1 said:**
> Well, rebooted, but nothing seems to have changed.  It booted to the grub2 menu and just sat there waiting for me to hit enter.

Any thoughts?

Thanks,

That happened because "update-grub" would have reset the value back to -1.

The only thing I can think of it to go through and select every item in your menu. If they work, perhaps it will reset the value of whatever is making the recordfail -1. That, as they say, is just a WAG. 

I tried loading an incorrect splash image to see if that would freeze the menu, but it didn't. It just booted to the mono background.

I'm going to play around in a VM to see if I can duplicate it.

---

### Post by kstarkey1 on 2009-10-27
> **drs305 said:**
> That happened because "update-grub" would have reset the value back to -1.

The only thing I can think of it to go through and select every item in your menu. If they work, perhaps it will reset the value of whatever is making the recordfail -1. That, as they say, is just a WAG. 

I tried loading an incorrect splash image to see if that would freeze the menu, but it didn't. It just booted to the mono background.

I'm going to play around in a VM to see if I can duplicate it.

I gave it a shot and tried all the options from the boot screen (recovery mode, 2 memtest86+), but still no change.  I ran update-grub again too.

I guess I'll move on to my printing issue now.  If you all have any other suggestions, I'd love to hear them :)

Thanks again for all the help!

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-28
Well, the onlything that I can think of is to get rid of the;
> 
cat << EOF
if [ \${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=${GRUB_TIMEOUT}
fi
EOF

part of your 00_header file (/etc/grub.d/00_header).

We know from the stuff that drs305 had you run that the lack of that in your menuentry does not hose your boot, and that you get a 3 second timeout on your menu.

I would hash out that whole section like so;
[code]
cat << EOF
## if [ \${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
##   set timeout=-1
## else
##   set timeout=${GRUB_TIMEOUT}
## fi
## EOF
[code]
and see what happens.

---

### Post by kstarkey1 on 2009-10-28
> **ranch hand said:**
> Well, the onlything that I can think of is to get rid of the;

part of your 00_header file (/etc/grub.d/00_header).

We know from the stuff that drs305 had you run that the lack of that in your menuentry does not hose your boot, and that you get a 3 second timeout on your menu.

I would hash out that whole section like so;
[code]
cat << EOF
## if [ \${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
##   set timeout=-1
## else
##   set timeout=${GRUB_TIMEOUT}
## fi
## EOF
[code]
and see what happens.

Thanks for taking the time to help ranch hand!

I'm sorry to report, but it didn't make a bit of difference.  I made the change, did sudo update-grub, rebooted, and after waiting about a minute at the grub2 menu I hit enter, and ...

I put the 00_header file back the way it was, just in case.

Any other ideas would be greatly appreciated!

(I'm not having any luck w/ my cups or touchpad issues either :( )

---

### Post by Paool on 2009-10-28
good introduction :) ok, but I used to put 'apci=off' to menu.lst, where can I turn it off now?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-10-28
> **Paool said:**
> good introduction :) ok, but I used to put 'apci=off' to menu.lst, where can I turn it off now?

If you want it in normal boots, open /etc/default/grub:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```

Change this line (*acpi=off* to it if you already have "quite" and/or "splash"). Adding it to this line will cause normal boots to start with this option:
> 
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="acpi=off"

Save the file, then run:
```

sudo update-grub

```

---

### Post by Paool on 2009-10-28
works like a charm now, thank you very much! :)

---

### Post by kstarkey1 on 2009-10-28
Does anyone know whether it's possible that a future update will fix my grub2 boot menu issues?

I'm still really bummed that we can't fix this.

I'm not having any luck squashing my other bugs either :(

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

thx

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-28
Grub 1.97 has been released.  We are using 1.97beta4.

I am not sure what the change log is, I thought I had it bookmarked.  It will probably be one of the early updates after release of 9.10.

If you filed the bug report, at least the Ubuntu devs know about the issue.  It might be good to file with the grub devs too.

I hope the update fixes your problems.  There are still several with grrub2.

The priority is probably the improvement of os-prober performance.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2009-10-28
> **ranch hand said:**
> 
I am not sure what the change log is, I thought I had it bookmarked.  It will probably be one of the early updates after release of 9.10.


[Announcement](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/grub-devel/2009-10/msg00373.html)

[Changelog](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/grub-devel/2009-10/txtjHthN7vYkM.txt)

---

### Post by VMC on 2009-10-28
> **kstarkey1 said:**
> ...I'm still really bummed that we can't fix this...
So your problem is that once you turn on your pc and presented with a grub2 menu, there is no count down timer to boot the default partition, correct?

output ```
sudo fdisk -l
``` and ```
sudo blkid
```
I know this may have nothing to do with anything, but just complete the picture. I feel your frustration. Also, you may have mentioned this before, but have you have any OS installed and any quirks with them?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-28
> **andrewabc said:**
> [Announcement]("http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/grub-devel/2009-10/msg00373.html")

[Changelog]("http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/grub-devel/2009-10/txtjHthN7vYkM.txt")
Thanks a bunch for that.  I was just going to go hunt it up.

I had it before but it was on one of my 9.10 installs and I am on Jaunty now.

Have to have this.  Like grub2 or not, it is what we are using and we need to keep up with it.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-28
The one that we need to be the most aware of is;

"update-grub is replaced by grub-mkconfig"

This will be the one with the most impact on the most people.  It has been in the blue print all a long.  It has worked all along.  We are all more familiar with "update-grub" so we have been using it.

A nice bit of something we recognize in the new system.  Now it is going the way of the Mammoth.

---

### Post by etxkesa on 2009-10-29
I have a very simple situation. The installation has picked up my Windows XP disk fine. All I want to do is change the default to XP so the rest of the family is happy. I can't find any grub file in /etc/default. I cat find a .cfg file in /boot/grub. I can find the old file which seems to have been updated to reflect the new boot order, but changing the default there has no impact, as it shouldn't.
Regards Ken Sayers


> **ranch hand said:**
> The one that we need to be the most aware of is;

"update-grub is replaced by grub-mkconfig"

This will be the one with the most impact on the most people.  It has been in the blue print all a long.  It has worked all along.  We are all more familiar with "update-grub" so we have been using it.

A nice bit of something we recognize in the new system.  Now it is going the way of the Mammoth.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-29
How about running;
```

grub-install -v

```
If you did a clean install you should have a /etc/default/grub file.  The "Grub=0" line would need to be edited to meet your conditions.

The above "code" will tell us what grub your box thinks it is running.  Then we will see what is up.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-10-29
with karmic ready for release you might want to post a link to this thread in the lucid forum when it opens  , or just repost your first entry from this thread .

---

