---
title: "Problems Restoring grub From Backup"
date: 2009-10-13
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by igb on 2009-10-13
I am testing Karmic beta on my laptop and am having problems with nvidia drivers. I am backing up an image of my / partition before installing the nvidia stuff, so I can easily roll back when it all goes pear shaped.

I am backing up using the experimental Clonezilla, which backs up ext4. I can backup and restore OK. However, when I reboot after restoring I get dumped at a grub prompt. Normally doing the following fixes this sort of problem:

```
sudo grub
find /boot/grub/stage1
root (hd#,#)
setup (hd#)
quit
```

From the output of the commands, it appears to have worked. However,  I still end up at a grub prompt after rebooting. I presume that grub2 works in a different way. So given that I seem to have all the correct files in /boot/grub what should I do to regenerate grub?


Ian.

---

### Post by john.nicholls on 2009-10-14
Grub2 is normally regenerated by
```
sudo update-grub2
```

---

### Post by budluva04 on 2009-10-14
> **john.nicholls said:**
> Grub2 is normally regenerated by
```
sudo update-grub2
```

```
sudo update-grub
```

works aswell fyi

---

### Post by igb on 2009-10-14
Thanks, I managed to get it working by following the instructions at:

[HTML]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#Recover%20Grub%202%20via%20LiveCD[/HTML]

Now to try and sort out my Nvidia problem!

Ian.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-14
Please mark these threads that are solved "solved".  It is under forum Tools at the top of this page.

Thanks.

---

### Post by VMC on 2009-10-14
What version of Clonzilla are you using. Latest addresses Grub2 problem.

"We are happy to announce that Clonezilla Live **1.2.2-31** is the new stable release. In this release some programs were updated and some bugs fixed. Features: based on Debian 'Lenny' repository as of 2009-10-05; Linux kernel 2.6.30; updated Partclone to 0.1.9, Memtest86+ to 4.00, live-initramfs to 1.157.3; bugs in partclone.xfs and partclone.fat have been fixed; by default '-r' option is on; **option '-g auto' is skipped when GRUB 2 is found in the restored OS**; an option to mount NFS 4 server was added to prep-ocsroot; language files have been updated...."

---

### Post by igb on 2009-10-14
Thanks, the version I am using is a couple of months old and based on Jaunty. I have downloaded the latest testing version, based on Karmic.

[Edit]
Just tried the latest experimental version, based on Karmic and it does correctly restore grub2. Also the latest kernel updates in Karmic fixed my Nvidia problem!

Ian.

---

### Post by george1984 on 2009-10-14
I had this problem when temporarily restoring jaunty using dd. I presume that this is the general case that will be experienced by everyone using dd "across the grub boundary", in which case "sudo update-grub" will be essential knowledge.

I proceeded by installing/reformatting root partition using the jaunty cd before dd'ing - and yes, you've guessed, used the karmic cd to reverse the process. 

"sudo update grub" is soo much better.

---

