---
title: "How to use static IP instead of DHCP with KDE?"
date: 2009-10-23
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-10-23
I have already configured a static IP connection using the Network Manager, but it's never used. Whenever I boot KDE, the DHCP kicks in.

I don't want to use wicd. Is there another thing that I should change to use the static IP connection?

---

### Post by Zorael on 2009-10-23
I used static IP on wireless network yesterday, not sure what to say but WFM.

[img]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=132870&d=1256328873[/img]

If anything it's *VERY* difficult to get it to use DHCP again once it's been set up to use static. It lacks any way to renew your IP, which is apparently a missing functionality in networkmanager and not in this frontend to it.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-10-23
> **Zorael said:**
> I used static IP on wireless network yesterday, not sure what to say but WFM.

The setup tool for WFM is similar. I have already a connection there, but it's never used. DHCP always kick in.

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=132874&stc=1&d=1256330354[/IMG]

> **Zorael said:**
> If anything it's *VERY* difficult to get it to use DHCP again once it's been set up to use static. It lacks any way to renew your IP, which is apparently a missing functionality in networkmanager and not in this frontend to it.

I have tried editing **/etc/network/interfaces** but that didn't work well, so I put the backup in place, which uses dhcp.

```
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
```

I guess the network manager should save the connection info in **/etc/network/interfaces**, but it doesn't.

---

### Post by seeker5528 on 2009-10-23
I think if you remove network manager, configuration in the interfaces file should work.

I just noticed I had at some point set up a static ip in the interfaces file on the computer I'm on.

```
auto eth3
iface eth3 inet static 
address 192.168.1.10
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1
dns-nameservers 69.10.208.10 69.10.208.12

```

resolvconf is installed to handle the DNS entries in the interfaces file, so on a fresh boot looking at resolv.conf should indicate it should not be edited because it is being managed by resolvconf. Instead it indicates you should not edit it because the file is being managed by network manager.

Also interesting, if I open a terminal window and type:

```
sudo dhclient
```

the inferface gets assigned a dynamic address and doing:

```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

shows the expected information about the file being automatically generated by resolvconf.

If I have time tomorrow, I might have to look at this further.

Later, Seeker

---

### Post by seeker5528 on 2009-10-24
Static config works for me with all networkmanager-* stuff removed. Didn't even have to tell Synaptic not to treat recommends as dependencies. :P

I'll have to do this for my wireless stuff at home now, doing the wireless config in the interfaces file is a little screwy.

Later, Seeker

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-10-24
See my sig, the network link could help :)

---

### Post by seeker5528 on 2009-10-24
> **slakkie said:**
> See my sig, the network link could help :)

There is some good information there.

Don't know how the OP feels, but for me peronally it's a little overly complex for my situation. I only connect to a single wireless network using WEP, so there should be no reason to add configuration anywhere but /etc/network/interfaces, with or without using WPA supplicant. I think it is only network manager that is screwing things up, sometimes all I have to do is ifdown/up the connection, but the majority of the time I have to ifdown the connection, unload/reload the module for my wireless card, then ifup the connection.

 I still have one system with a wireless B card that doesn't do WPA, I don't think the Wii does WPA either, but in the past I did have the relevant wpa-* stuff in the interfaces file to use WPA supplicant for a WEP configuration.

Later, Seeker

---

### Post by seeker5528 on 2009-10-25
On my home system, with resolvconf installed to handle the dns lines in the interfaces file, if I remove network manager both of these work for WEP wireless configuration, the first uses WPA supplicant, the second uses iwconfig:

```
iface eth1 inet static
address 192.168.1.11
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1
dns-nameservers 68.87.85.98 68.87.69.146

wpa-ssid your-ssid
wpa-key-mgmt NONE
wpa-wep-key0 your-hex-or-text-WEP-key
```

```
iface eth1 inet static
address 192.168.1.11
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1
dns-nameservers 68.87.85.98 68.87.69.146

wireless-mode Managed
wireless-chanel 11
wireless-essid your-ssid 
wireless-key your-hex-or-text-WEP-key
```

Should probably be noted that in Gnome, you could click on the network manager applet on the panel and uncheck the box for wireless, but it wouldn't stay disabled across a logout/login, much less a reboot. After being disabled this way I could get the wireless-* type configuration to work without having to reboot.

For the wpa-* type configuration it wouldn't work until I removed network manager and rebooted.

Later, Seeker

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-10-25
Thank you guys for all the info. I will make some tests when I have some time. Nevertheless, I would like to fix the network manager instead of editing config files manually.

---

### Post by seeker5528 on 2009-10-26
This stuff was broken in the Jaunty development cycle too, but if I remember correctly they had it fixed before the RC releases came along.

There are always people that have problems with it, but for the most part it seemed to be working in Jaunty, it allowed static config and there was a way to indicate specific entries should not be managed by networkmanager without having to uninstall it.

Don't know what happened this time around.

I don't have a lot of patience for dealing with issues network manager has when I can fall back to the interfaces file as the reliable, not point and click but not too hard either, old faithful option.

I do consider networkmanger to be the best of the GUI options, but wicd is another option that seems to be winning some people over and some times you just gotta go for the tool that works. The listed features [ at the website](http://wicd.sourceforge.net/features.php) indicate static configuration and automatic connection at boot. Not having used it I don't know if *at boot* really means *at boot* or if they misused the term when they really mean *at login*. 

Later, Seeker

---

