---
title: "31.14 kernel out..."
date: 2009-10-13
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by darco on 2009-10-13
ok, 31-14 kernel is out....get ready for some breakage or not!

Change Log:
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/2.6.31-14.46/+changelog](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/2.6.31-14.46/+changelog)


darco

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-10-13
Working very well here----:)

---

### Post by darco on 2009-10-13
The icons are now fixed but I cant see it unless I choose the drive...maybe a theme issue...

Reboot did not break compiz...running the 185.18.36 drivers


darco

*edit*  yup theme issue,.,,,all good

---

### Post by oboedad55 on 2009-10-13
Can't edit menus and the openoffice update broke oo writer, the infamous crash on load.

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2009-10-13
downloading now.

---

### Post by rifak on 2009-10-13
everything went well for me. as far as i can tell, nothing broken.

---

### Post by graaant on 2009-10-13
Smooth upgrade for me and seems to perform well. :)

---

### Post by inportb on 2009-10-13
Whoa, major fixage. I'm not sure if it's the kernel update or something else, but my preferred desktop environment has stopped crashing. I'd been using Fluxbox for a couple of days now.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-10-14
all ok here including OO .

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-10-14
I finished the update about 10 minutes ago, everything is running well, no problem with menus or OOO.

---

### Post by Squonk07 on 2009-10-14
Yep, still trucking here. I haven't experienced any major breakage since Alpha 5, and the rather annoying Ubuntu One checkmark issue has been cleared up. It's been uneventful for me over the past few weeks. Boring, even. But I guess that's the price we pay for stability. ;)

---

### Post by rogerdean on 2009-10-14
Huh, lost sound again...

---

### Post by dino99 on 2009-10-14
i'm not so happy:

when booting, screen turn black & have lot of flashing about modem-manager and acpid.
xorg.log: fatal error, no display found !!! ( silly warning as it seem to run fine)

lot of nautilus warnings

---

### Post by wfp on 2009-10-14
Major breakage here. Here's the error message Usplash setting mode failed. Usplash using mode 1024X768 Screen just flickers. Had to go back to Kernel 13. I have 2 monitors a crt 17inch and a 20inch hdmi. Ubuntu is the only disto that has problems with my monitors. Suse and Fedora, Debian, and Sabayon all put my monitors in the  correct resolution. And it's just not the beta this goes back all the way to hardy poor job. By the way my Native resolution on the hdmi is 1600x900 on the crt is 1024x768  And It's just a major pain having to hack xorg. I love Ubuntu really i am Just upset that it can not find my native resolution on both Monitors.

---

### Post by hanzomon4 on 2009-10-14
let it flicker it eventually boots

---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2009-10-14
no problems on my end thank goodness

---

### Post by wfp on 2009-10-14
No it just brings me back to tty1, and from there nothing Thanks.

---

### Post by Ichtyandr on 2009-10-14
My gdm does not work any more, I have to login manually and startx.

Also for the first time I have ubuntu without sound!


EDIT: OK the problems are gone miraculously after couple of reboots, so now it is a perfect system again!

---

### Post by Ekeluo on 2009-10-14
Kubuntu Karmic here, system response faster than before after last set (183mb) of updates. 31-14 is just fine, already removed 31-13.

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2009-10-14
All is running good on 32 bit and two 64 bit installs.

---

### Post by ingegnerlillo on 2009-10-14
Karmic doesn't boot anymore for me :(

Black & white logo disappear and then everything start to blink.

No problem with 31.13...

---

### Post by rubenverweij on 2009-10-14
For everyone who can't boot with a blinking screen - here is how I solved it. Apparently usplash wrongly detected the resolution of the screen, so editing the usplash config file is all there is to it. You can find it here:
/etc/usplash.conf. Just change the resolution to the right size. Then run:
```
sudo update-initramfs -u -k all
```
Tell me if it worked for you guys too.

---

### Post by rubenverweij on 2009-10-14
Filed a bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usplash/+bug/451251](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usplash/+bug/451251)

---

### Post by ingegnerlillo on 2009-10-14
> **rubenverweij said:**
> For everyone who can't boot with a blinking screen - here is how I solved it. Apparently usplash wrongly detected the resolution of the screen, so editing the usplash config file is all there is to it. You can find it here:
/etc/usplash.conf. Just change the resolution to the right size. Then run:
```
sudo update-initramfs -u -k all
```
Tell me if it worked for you guys too.

For me it doesn't work :(

usplash.conf already contain right value (1280x800), anyway I've tried to execute initramfs but no success...

---

