---
title: "Poor display resolution in Karmic Koala"
date: 2009-10-04
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Castor68 on 2009-10-04
Just upgraded to Karmic Koala and the display resolution is horrible. I got  800x600 and 640X480 and I need a higher one.

**With $ lspci -nn | grep VGA I found**:

[COLOR="RoyalBlue"]00:02.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device [8086:2562] (rev 03)[/COLOR]

**And this is the xorg.conf file**:

[COLOR="RoyalBlue"]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
#	Driver		"kbd"
#	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
#	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
#	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
#	Option		"XkbVariant"	"intl"
#	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
#	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
#EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
[/COLOR]

As you can see, there is almost nothing .....

Any ideas?

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-10-04
Have you tried running the command:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-10-04
BTW a fresh install of Karmic no longer even has a /etc/X11/xorg.conf:

> lance@lance-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
cat: /etc/X11/xorg.conf: No such file or directory
lance@lance-desktop:~$ 


I haven't yet tried an upgrade.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-10-04
> New Intel video driver architecture available for testing

The Intel video driver has switched from the "EXA" acceleration method to the new "UXA", solving major performance problems of Ubuntu 9.04. Ubuntu 9.10 Beta also features kernel mode setting by default on Intel hardware, which reduces boot-time flickering and dramatically speeds up suspend/resume. 

[http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/karmic/beta#New%20Intel%20video%20driver%20architecture%20available%20for%20testing](http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/karmic/beta#New%20Intel%20video%20driver%20architecture%20available%20for%20testing)

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/KernelModeSetting](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/KernelModeSetting)

---

