---
title: "9.10 Adobe flash plugin problems"
date: 2009-10-10
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by William78 on 2009-10-10
I get the following error

E: adobe-flashplugin: Package is in a very bad inconsistent state - you should  reinstall it before attempting a removal.

When i try to upgrade or remove i get the same error.  Any help on how to get this working?

---

### Post by rusty815 on 2009-10-10
did you try installing it through synaptic?

---

### Post by William78 on 2009-10-10
Yes,  that is the error i got from synaptic.

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2009-10-10
Moved to Karmic.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-10-10
Startup Synaptic and completely remove flash, before doing anything else.

WHat version of Flash are you trying to install? 64-bit from the repositories. 32-bit from the repositories, or the 64-bit alpha from Adobe?

---

### Post by emarkay on 2009-10-11
I had that exact issue and posted about it a few days ago - prob because I installed Adobe's version - I had to MANUALLY delete all files and directories pertaining to flash and tehn reinstall teh repo version.

---

### Post by xngk on 2009-10-23
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Startup Synaptic and completely remove flash, before doing anything else.

WHat version of Flash are you trying to install? 64-bit from the repositories. 32-bit from the repositories, or the 64-bit alpha from Adobe?

I have the same problem as the original poster. When I try to open synaptic, though, I get this error:
> E: The Package adobe-flashplugin needs to be reinstalled, but I can't find an archive for it.
E: Internal error opening cache (1). Please report.
:confused:

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-10-23
Post #6 here got me straightened out:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298935](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298935)

---

