---
title: "9.10 Alpha 4 on a Dell Studio XPS 13 w/Hybrid Graphics"
date: 2009-08-31
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by spotdog14 on 2009-08-31
Hello all.

I have been trying out the new Alpha for a while in VM, but wanted to boot into a live cd to see how it really performs on my system. I have a Dell Studio XPS 13 with the hybrid Nvidia graphics chip.

I cannot get this live cd to load into any type of GUI, it boots to command line only. Here are a few of the threads that got me going using the last release. 

Hopefully you guys could point me in the right direction on what I could do to get this live cd working.

Thanks!

[http://venkyms.wordpress.com/](http://venkyms.wordpress.com/)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1067944](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1067944)

---

### Post by spotdog14 on 2009-09-01
Does anyone at least have any adivce to give me on how to try to get this to work?

---

### Post by jmmL on 2009-09-01
I don't have any experience of hybrid graphics, but have you tried using 9.04? Are you trying to use karmic just for fun, or does it contain fixes you need? If 9.04 works then you could try upgrading from there.

You say that it will only boot to a command-line. Are there any obvious errors reported that you can see? Apologies for not being particularly helpful.

---

### Post by spotdog14 on 2009-09-01
> **jmmL said:**
> I don't have any experience of hybrid graphics, but have you tried using 9.04? Are you trying to use karmic just for fun, or does it contain fixes you need? If 9.04 works then you could try upgrading from there.

You say that it will only boot to a command-line. Are there any obvious errors reported that you can see? Apologies for not being particularly helpful.
Yes 9.04 works fine after I edited xorg.conf. 

Here is a post in another forum about my problem, this seems to solve the issue, but something they might want to take a look at. 

I was just trying it out for fun.

[http://forum.notebookreview.com/showpost.php?p=5267679&postcount=71](http://forum.notebookreview.com/showpost.php?p=5267679&postcount=71)

---

### Post by Sephoroth on 2009-09-11
In the Karmic alpha on the SXPS 13, for whatever reason, the nv driver fails to load and vesa is either not automatically loaded or fails for some reason as well.  You may try to boot from the LiveCD and force vesa as an argument.  That said, LiveCD's usually aren't a good way to judge performance....  For me, performance feels about the same as it was on Jaunty Jackalope (which had been running ext4).

---

