---
title: "9.10. Problems with su after dist-upgrade from jaunty to karmic"
date: 2009-10-05
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Tyler_Durden on 2009-10-05
Hi Folks,
we have just updated our fileserver to Ubuntu 9.10. Since then we are experiencing problems with the su command. It is no longer possible to su <otheruser>:

~me: su <someoneelse>
Password:
initgroups: Operation not permitted
~me:


I have googled around a bit and found that sometimes file permissions of su were not set correctly. Yet:

~me: ls -ahl `which su`
-rwsr-xr-x 1 root root 36K 2009-07-31 15:59 /bin/su

So I assume this is not the real issue.


Additionally, we have tried to disable LDAP authentification and test su with a local host. Yet, no luck. It is now only possible to su as root.


Does anyone know how to fix this issue?


Kind regards,
Tyler

---

### Post by t3r0 on 2009-10-05
> **Tyler_Durden said:**
> Hi Folks,
we have just updated our fileserver to Ubuntu 9.10.


You realise that Karmic is still BETA and things like this are likely to happen?

You should never ever use development versions of any software or operating system in production servers.

---

### Post by Tyler_Durden on 2009-10-05
Thanks for your nice reply, which is not helping at all :).

Unfortunately, we needed the Karmic release due to the fact that no backports of Samba 3.4 are available to the last release of Ubuntu. To make our Windows 7 clients correctly work with Samba, the upgrade was mandatory.

Anyway, things like this should not happen. So, is there anyone around knowing the cause for this erroneous behavior? Any maybe someone with a workaround or fix?

---

### Post by cdenley on 2009-10-05
This would probably be a better place to post about your problem.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=359](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=359)

Or maybe file a bug report if one doesn't exist already.

---

### Post by Tyler_Durden on 2009-10-05
Ah, I'm sorry. I have not found the appropriate forum for this. Could a moderator move the thread for me?

---

### Post by Tyler_Durden on 2009-10-05
Follow-Up Post is now in the correct part of the forum:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8056068](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8056068)

---

