---
title: "2 Grub questions"
date: 2009-08-28
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by zoomy942 on 2009-08-28
so GRUB2 is really Grub 1.96 right?

Also, i used some grub editing steps i found on the wiki and they didnt seem to apply to this version of ubuntu.  how can i make it so i dont see the kernel list at boot up?  I only have 1 kernel so i just want ot to go past that step.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2009-08-28
you are right: grub2= 1,96 (2 serie)

if you have 1 kernel on your system, the grub menu is hidden by default (seem normal as it has no more choice !!!)
Otherwise, sys & esc are the hot keys to unhide menu

---

### Post by zoomy942 on 2009-08-28
> **dino99 said:**
> you are right: grub2= 1,96 (2 serie)

if you have 1 kernel on your system, the grub menu is hidden by default (seem normal as it has no more choice !!!)
Otherwise, sys & esc are the hot keys to unhide menu

Thanks for the response!  As for the grub menu, I had rc7 and rc8 on here and now its only rc8, but the menu isn't hidden.

---

### Post by clubsoda on 2009-08-28
Maybe set GRUB_TIMEOUT=0 in /etc/default/grub and then sudo update-grub2.

I really should read the grub2 manual to learn how to do per-kernel boot options. /boot/grub/grub.cfg says "DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE" but I just can't help myself. :)

clubsoda

---

### Post by FrancoNero on 2009-08-30
> **clubsoda said:**
> /boot/grub/grub.cfg says "DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE" but I just can't help myself. :)


it sounds too much like an invitation :)

---

### Post by garba on 2009-08-30
> **clubsoda said:**
> Maybe set GRUB_TIMEOUT=0 in /etc/default/grub and then sudo update-grub2.

I really should read the grub2 manual to learn how to do per-kernel boot options. /boot/grub/grub.cfg says "DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE" but I just can't help myself. :)

clubsoda


yep take a look at the scripts somewhere in /etc/grub, those files get parsed by update-grub to build the resulting grub.cfg file

---

