---
title: "Reinstalling but save list of packages or setup?"
date: 2009-07-21
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Bonzai11 on 2009-07-21
Well Have to rewrite this again. Another problem with Karmic where sometimes when I press enter it will log out.
Well went jaunty->karmic route thought it would be cool to be on the bleeding edge(well in kernel sense not really karmic is outdated atm..)
Just like any other 16 year old would want to.
Well I was wrong audio acts up shuts off then i need to logout and re-login to get it back.
(Sometimes doesn't work)
And the inability to use Vmware because or kernel modules has led to the last straw.
Theres some more problems which I found out how to fix through searching, but I'd rather go back to good 'ol Jaunty.:cry:
Already have check the downgrade page in Wiki. SPits out humongous list of packages.
And I'd rather just get a list of packages and just nuke the install.
Seems harsh but I want it to be gone.:twisted:
I've reinstalled before to find out everything has to be reinstalled and it take quite awhile to find everything.
Anyone have any help?
I'm gonna be religiously refreshing this thread I want to set it to download tonight.:popcorn:
Thanks in advance.
Also if anyone knows of a guide just post the link it is getting kind of late wouldn't want some one to be typing up an essay for me.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-07-21
the first four lines of my deblist file, unmodified, that i use for exactly what you intend to do:

```
#generated 14 jul 09, except these four lines, using this command: 
#aptitude search -F '%100p' '~i!~M' > deblist
#to restore, use the following command:
#sudo apt-get install $(cat deblist)
```

i add those 4 lines to any new deblist file i create, so i don't lose it. you can replace 'deblist' with whatever file name you want to use. use 'deblist2' or something when making a new one, and then rename it after, so you don't override the cheat sheet!

to back up settings for specific programs:

navigate to /home/(username)/ in places -> computer and then go to view -> show hidden files.

every hidden file and folder (files/folders starting with . are hidden) you see contains the settings for one specific program.

some (.firefox) are obvious, some are not: .purple and .libpurple are for pidgin IM client.

you can back all of them up and restore all of them, or (what i do) back all of them up, and restore them selectively.

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-07-21
dpkg --get-selections > package.list


When you have reinstalled Ubuntu just run these commands:

sudo dpkg --set-selections < package.list
sudo apt-get dselect-upgrade

Good luck

---

### Post by Bonzai11 on 2009-07-21
Thanks for the help got the lists generated by both commands.
Probably just gonna flip a coin to pick one.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-07-21
> **Bonzai11 said:**
> Thanks for the help got the lists generated by both commands.
Probably just gonna flip a coin to pick one.

mine is way cooler, since it only uses _***two***_ commands instead of three!


also -- you should verify that the restore command(s), whichever you choose, work. manually modify the list generated (follow the pattern) to include a package you do not presently have installed, and see if it picks up on it and installs it.

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-07-21
> **earthpigg said:**
> mine is way cooler, since it only uses _***two***_ commands instead of three!


Mine is cooler since I don't need so many arguments :P

---

### Post by Bonzai11 on 2009-07-21
Well went through both basically got a list of what I needed to keep.
Program wise. Then just saved them reinstalled this morning got all the packages and copied most program settings over.
Worked perfectly thanks for the help guys.

---

### Post by pelle.k on 2009-07-21
erhm, the command you're looking for is ```
debfoster -s
``` You need to install debfoster first though. It's not perfect, but does a fairly good job at showing what you've actually installed, by hand.
Seems i'm too late, anyway. Try it out, it'll come in handy for those times you forget all the crap you've installed the past few days...

---

