---
title: "9.10 beta - Hauppauge WinTV not found"
date: 2009-10-07
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Ron-In-Kerrville on 2009-10-07
Upgraded Dell XPS-420 computer from 9.04 to 9.10 beta.  Wonderful, they got the sound working in this beta version.  The Creative SB X-Fi sound board is now found and works fine.  The TV card is still not found.  The card description is Hauppauge WinTV, HVR-1250 Model 79xxx Hybrid ATSC/QAM.  I tried various software like TvTime, and none of them find the card to assign channels.  
* Just wanted to pass the info on the beta.  Guess I will wait for the final 9.10 before trying to find any patches for the TV card.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-08
No help here, just like your box, see sig for mine.

---

### Post by seeker5528 on 2009-10-09
> **Ron-In-Kerrville said:**
> The card description is Hauppauge WinTV, HVR-1250 Model 79xxx Hybrid ATSC/QAM.  I tried various software like TvTime, and none of them find the card to assign channels.

The linux driver for these do not support the analogue capabilities of the hardware, so TV Time and the other analogue TV software will not work with it.

Looks like it uses a DVB driver so assuming that part is working Me TV or other DVB TV software may work. The card does it's own MPEG encoding so it should work fine with Myth TV, it does take some time to run through the set up.

If you want Myth TV, it's probably suggested to install the Mythbuntu Control Center and use it to take you through the different stages of installtion/configuration. Have not tried it with Karmic so I don't know how the Myth 0.22 stuff is working.

Some information here:

[http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/Hauppauge_HVR-1250](http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/Hauppauge_HVR-1250)

: does indicate some recent variants of the hardware are still not working with the 2.6.30 version of the kernel and this might still hold true for 2.6.31.

Also if this was included in the package when you got the system from Dell, you never know what kind of weird tweaks Dell has had done to the cards that are made specifically for them. Could be as simple as a PCI ID that needs to be added to the driver or there could be some tweak to the card the driver doesn't expect.

The may be something in the output of dmesg or in the syslog file that provides a clue. Open a terminal window and type:

desmg

:or one of:

less /var/log/syslog
gedit /var/log/syslog
kate /varlog/syslog
etc....

: If you use less to view syslog you probably want to hit the end key and scroll up, since the is usually a lot of stuff. Not sure what you would grep for to get a reduce amount of text.

Later, Seeker

---

### Post by Ron-In-Kerrville on 2009-10-12
Thanks Seeker,
I tried MeTV but it cannot find any channels either.
Think I will wait for the "final release" of 9.10 and then download Myth TV since
it is a large install with many parameters.  I printed your suggestions and will
apply them to the final release.  Ron

---

### Post by rajeev1204 on 2009-10-14
> **Ron-In-Kerrville said:**
> Upgraded Dell XPS-420 computer from 9.04 to 9.10 beta.  Wonderful, they got the sound working in this beta version.  The Creative SB X-Fi sound board is now found and works fine.  The TV card is still not found.  The card description is Hauppauge WinTV, HVR-1250 Model 79xxx Hybrid ATSC/QAM.  I tried various software like TvTime, and none of them find the card to assign channels.  
* Just wanted to pass the info on the beta.  Guess I will wait for the final 9.10 before trying to find any patches for the TV card.  Any ideas?

Do you see this card when you type the command lspci?

In tvtime use from terminal tvtime --device /dev/video0 etc once it shows in lspci command.

R

---

