---
title: "2.6.31-8 booting problem with USB Hard Drive"
date: 2009-08-31
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by ljrmorgan on 2009-08-31
Hi,

When I boot into karmic with the 2.6.31-8 kernel while my external hard drive is plugged in, my system hangs with a flashing cursor in the top left. When I unplug the hard drive and restart it boots fine. As far as I can tell that's the only thing I'm changing.

Does anyone else have this problem??

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-08-31
Check your bios for boot sequence, make sure your internal hdd is selected before cd and/or usb devices.

---

### Post by jlacroix on 2009-08-31
> **ljrmorgan said:**
> Hi,

When I boot into karmic with the 2.6.31-8 kernel while my external hard drive is plugged in, my system hangs with a flashing cursor in the top left. When I unplug the hard drive and restart it boots fine. As far as I can tell that's the only thing I'm changing.

Does anyone else have this problem??

I had that problem with Jaunty. The blinking cursor happens after the Ubuntu logo so it is NOT the boot order, it's a bug I haven't had an opportunity to report yet. If you get a chance to report it before I do, post back a link to the bug report.

---

### Post by ljrmorgan on 2009-09-04
> **slakkie said:**
> Check your bios for boot sequence, make sure your internal hdd is selected before cd and/or usb devices.

Well, removable devices (e.g. USB) come first in my boot sequence, however my USB hard drive isn't bootable, grub shows up (which is on my internal HD obv) and I am selecting Karmic from GRUB, so it's not like my computer is trying to boot from my USB hard drive. I still have this problem with 2.6.31-9, and after I unplug my hard drive and boot I then also get this "superblock in the future" problem on my root and boot partitions. If I boot into it without the hard drive plugged in I don't get the superblock in the future error.

I'm not sure where to file a bug report, I'm not entirely sure what's causing the problem, that's why I thought I'd post here first, see if anyone had the same problem, or any suggestions on how to fix it.

---

### Post by ljrmorgan on 2009-09-04
I should also add that when/if I plug my hard drive in (afterr booting into Karmic) it's mounted fine.

---

