---
title: "9.10 Broadcom Wireless to Work"
date: 2009-10-11
forum: Karmic Koala Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by jomtois on 2009-10-11
Perhaps this will help someone out there.

I was using Jaunty fine on my laptop (Dell e1705) with wireless working.  I installed 9.10 beta and could not get it to work.  In jaunty I was using the Broadcom Wireless driver that showed up in System > Administration > Hardware drivers.  

When I installed 9.10 as a fresh install from the live cd, it would list only the Broadcom Wireless driver.  I kept choosing "Activate" and entering my password, but it would never activate.  Having no network connectivity, I was unable get any updates.

However this worked for me:

1) Open Synaptic Pacakage Manager
2) Ensure 9.10 LiveCd is in CD drive
3) Settings > Repositories > Ubuntu Software
4) Check the installable from cd and close
5) Refresh 
6) Search for "bcmwl-kernel-source"
7) Mark for installation
8) Install it
9) Reboot computer

That worked for me.  It was activated Hardware Drivers now.  Also, after doing this (I think because dkms installed with it) now the graphics drivers appeared in the Hardware Drivers scan, which hadn't before.

Basically, installing bcmwl-kernel-source was the key to success for me.  Handily, it is on the livecd.

Jon

---

### Post by novafluxx on 2009-10-11
> **jomtois said:**
> Perhaps this will help someone out there.

I was using Jaunty fine on my laptop (Dell e1705) with wireless working.  I installed 9.10 beta and could not get it to work.  In jaunty I was using the Broadcom Wireless driver that showed up in System > Administration > Hardware drivers.  

When I installed 9.10 as a fresh install from the live cd, it would list only the Broadcom Wireless driver.  I kept choosing "Activate" and entering my password, but it would never activate.  Having no network connectivity, I was unable get any updates.

However this worked for me:

1) Open Synaptic Pacakage Manager
2) Ensure 9.10 LiveCd is in CD drive
3) Settings > Repositories > Ubuntu Software
4) Check the installable from cd and close
5) Refresh 
6) Search for "bcmwl-kernel-source"
7) Mark for installation
8) Install it
9) Reboot computer

That worked for me.  It was activated Hardware Drivers now.  Also, after doing this (I think because dkms installed with it) now the graphics drivers appeared in the Hardware Drivers scan, which hadn't before.

Basically, installing bcmwl-kernel-source was the key to success for me.  Handily, it is on the livecd.

Jon

I had similar issues, and resolved them exactly how you did. My wireless used to work out-of-the-box, but with 9.10 its never worked unless I've manually installed that package.

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2009-10-11
Hope this is taken care in the final

---

### Post by mlentink on 2009-10-16
> **jomtois said:**
> Basically, installing bcmwl-kernel-source was the key to success for me.  Handily, it is on the livecd.

Jon

Would you have any clue on how to do this if you installed with usb-stick rather than cd?
I'm trying to do this on a Compaq mini 700 netbook

---

### Post by 2roombas on 2009-10-17
> **mlentink said:**
> Would you have any clue on how to do this if you installed with usb-stick rather than cd?
I'm trying to do this on a Compaq mini 700 netbook

Did you ever get an answer on this?  I have this same no-wireless-now issue on my mini 9 after installing 9.10 with a usb-stick.

---

### Post by redbook4574 on 2009-10-18
> **2roombas said:**
> Did you ever get an answer on this?  I have this same no-wireless-now issue on my mini 9 after installing 9.10 with a usb-stick.

I had the same problem with a packard bell netbook, I just connected via a cable and downloaded restricted drivers, after that I used the sta option and all was fine.

---

### Post by meborc on 2009-10-18
from USB, just browse to POOL->RESTRICTED->B->bcmwl.... and install the deb file from there

as i remember, you need to install 1 dependency first from the MAIN folder

USB has all the .deb files, so it is simple ;)

---

### Post by zenarcher on 2009-10-18
> **redbook4574 said:**
> I had the same problem with a packard bell netbook, I just connected via a cable and downloaded restricted drivers, after that I used the sta option and all was fine.

This is the same way I resolved my problem with the Dell Mini 9.

Cheers,
zenarcher

---

### Post by stiller on 2009-10-19
Thanks jomtois, your suggestion worked for me.

---

### Post by NachoKB on 2009-10-19
I have the same problem, and will try installing that package tonight (it didn't occur to me, as even when connected via wired it kept failing, so I thought it didn't have anything to do with packages failing to install due to connectivity).

ref [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jockey/+bug/449268](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jockey/+bug/449268)

-- nachokb

---

### Post by josepicco on 2009-10-19
Thanks jomtois por your help!!! Finally I could get my wireless card working fine

---

### Post by mugen-R on 2009-10-20
what is that dependency that i need from main???
whatever i do it keeps says that i need to put the cd in the drive....

please need answer asap as i have work tomorrow !!!!

thanks in advance...

---

### Post by alexmurray on 2009-10-21
You can see the dependencies here:

[http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/bcmwl-kernel-source](http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/bcmwl-kernel-source)

Probably dkms...

---

### Post by mugen-R on 2009-10-21
I've got all the 3 others debs but whatever i choose to install first got the same error
is there a how to guide to help me please?

---

### Post by colinnwn on 2009-10-25
This didn't work for me on a Compaq Presario M2000 and Broadcom 4306 wireless card. Does anyone know if bcmwl-kernel-source should work with this card? I tried to remember and remove all the wireless driver kludges I tried prior to finding this thread. Does anything need to be blacklisted for this to work?

---

### Post by redbook4574 on 2009-10-25
> **colinnwn said:**
> This didn't work for me on a Compaq Presario M2000 and Broadcom 4306 wireless card. Does anyone know if bcmwl-kernel-source should work with this card? I tried to remember and remove all the wireless driver kludges I tried prior to finding this thread. Does anything need to be blacklisted for this to work?

I believe you need b43 in restricted drivers vice sta for the 4306, I used to have the m2000. If that doesn't work I used ndiswrapper in intrepid and it worked fine.

---

### Post by colinnwn on 2009-10-25
> **redbook4574 said:**
> I believe you need b43 in restricted drivers vice sta for the 4306, I used to have the m2000. If that doesn't work I used ndiswrapper in intrepid and it worked fine.

Ah, I didn't realize this was the sta driver. Yes I know that won't work. Before I followed the steps here, I had nothing in my hardware drivers menu. Afterwards I had a "Software Modem" entry only. 

I tried another tutorial using fwcutter, and that caused "Broadcom B43 wireless driver" to appear in the hardware drivers menu, and that also didn't work (though it did activate the card because the light for the wlan finally came on). Network Manager continued to show wlan as being disconnected. This is the same thing you are talking about right?

Thanks for the clarification.

---

