---
title: "12.10.iso problems"
date: 2012-05-13
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Quantal Quetzal) (Closed)
---

### Post by Miykel on 2012-05-13
G'Day Does anyone else have problems with the 12.10 iso ??, I've downloaded it twice and burned several discs but every time I do an install using it I have trouble with Grub and the nVidia drives will not install, the only way is to upgrade the xorg server with nVidia drivers. This install I used the 12.04 disc and upgraded to 12.10 and it all worked fine.
Regards Miykel

---

### Post by ronacc on 2012-05-13
the nvidia problem has already been reported , for a workaround read the part of the bug report marked workaround .[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/993506](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/993506) .

what problem do you have with grub , installed ok for me from the quantal .iso , found and added all my other  installs .

---

### Post by Miykel on 2012-05-13
Thanks for thet ronacc, I run that workaround and kept a copy for the next install, the problem with grub is sometimes I get no grub, just the windows bootloader with no Ubuntu option, so have to use the repair disc to create the grub boot loader or Grub windows options don't work then I have to do a mbr repair first with the windows disc then do a grub repair with the grub repair disc, but using the 12.04 disc it never happens.  Just another test lol.
Regards Miykel

---

### Post by pressureman on 2012-05-13
This is why I liked the alternate CD... the report.html gave you a list of uninstallable packages.

It would be great if there were some type of test/report for the daily live CD too.

---

### Post by Miykel on 2012-05-13
> **pressureman said:**
> This is why I liked the alternate CD... the report.html gave you a list of uninstallable packages.

It would be great if there were some type of test/report for the daily live CD too.

G'Day Pressureman, isn't that what we're doing, getting the output from the developers and trying it out to see what goes bang. If everything went fine straight away we'd be out of a job, look at it as job security  lol.
Regards Miykel

---

### Post by ronacc on 2012-05-13
> **Miykel said:**
> Thanks for thet ronacc, I run that workaround and kept a copy for the next install, the problem with grub is sometimes I get no grub, just the windows bootloader with no Ubuntu option, so have to use the repair disc to create the grub boot loader or Grub windows options don't work then I have to do a mbr repair first with the windows disc then do a grub repair with the grub repair disc, but using the 12.04 disc it never happens.  Just another test lol.
Regards Miykel

always take a close look where the live cd is going to put the boot loader , ubiquity rarely calls the drives by the same letters that gparted does or that the bios does . after getting into ubuntu does running ```
 sudo update-grub
``` in a terminal find your windows partition and add it correctly to your grub menu ?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-05-13
I ran the live session with both 12.10 i386 and amd64. I got Unity 3D without proprietary drivers being installed. The top command showed Compiz running.

I then installed 12.10 amd64 and ended up with Unity 2D. The Nvidia X-Server settings utility was installed but not the Nvidia driver. I even failed installing a driver from the Nvidia web site.

I just now reinstalled 12.10 without ticking the restricted extras option and I now have Ubuntu 3D on the Nouveau open source driver.

I have been able to re-size the launcher icons and after installing CCSM I could set wobbly windows. Compiz had a bit of a hiccup and crashed and Apport did not get very far in building its report but the system is still up and running.

I think that this is good progress from the Nouveau Devs. I might not need to install the Nvidia driver at all.

As regards Grub, are you also using Grub Customizer? I regard that as essential for anyone dual booting with the development release.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1664134]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1664134")

Regards.

---

### Post by pressureman on 2012-05-13
> **Miykel said:**
> G'Day Pressureman, isn't that what we're doing, getting the output from the developers and trying it out to see what goes bang. If everything went fine straight away we'd be out of a job, look at it as job security  lol.
Regards Miykel

I meant more along the lines of automated test runners, or continuous integration, which is what I assume generated the old report.html for the alternate CD.

Job security? I don't feel the need to secure a job that doesn't pay, since they're easy to come by ;-)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-05-13
Seeing as we are really early in the cycle, have you tried installing without checking the install 3rd party software option? I seem to remember that the same sort of problem happened early in the Precise development cycle.

---

### Post by Miykel on 2012-05-14
Thanks for the replies guys;

@ Cariboo; Yep I tried each option, this is, I think No5, best so far is the "try Ubuntu" then click on the install icon.

@ Pressureman;  Job security? I don't feel the need to secure a job that doesn't pay, since they're easy to come by :wink:   ....  LOL.

@ Grahammechanical; Until Ronacc told me about the workaround the only way I could get the nVidia drivers to install was to upgrade xorg server

@ Ronacc;  Couldn't do a Grub update from the disc, found out about no grub when the install finished and had to reboot, if I had Grub and booted up ok tried grub update which showed the other OS's but at boot the grub entries for windows went nowhere just a black screen.

Hope that all helps
Regards Miykel

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-05-14
No luck so far with May 14 quantal iso on an Acer Intel netbook and an Acer AMD notebook. 

1.  Try booting .iso file direct with Grub 2 function.  Has been working well with 10.04, 10.10, 11.04, 11.10, 12,04, not with 12.10 because squashfs can't find files.  Fails on both pc's.

2.  Try iso hybrid USB flash memory gets up to trying to copy files then gets some error writing syslog and says to clean the CD.  How do I clean the USB memory bits?  Fails on both pc's.

3.  Use unetbootin to make USB install.  Gets a lot farther but then on "Detecting hardware" gets "Bug: unable to handle null pointer dereference at 0000004C"

In none of the three cases will ubuntu-bug do anything.

Finally found Dash's "Startup Disk Creator" which Dash has filed under "C" not under Startup.  Sure is a lot faster on 10.04 to find some application....

Let me try quantal's startup disk creator...

Jerry

---

### Post by williejones on 2012-05-14
> **jerrylamos said:**
>  then on "Detecting hardware" gets "Bug: unable to handle null pointer dereference at 0000004C"


Jerry

Same with me. I have downloaded three daily live 64 bit desktops, burned to DVD, and then tried to install to a 16G usb.  In each time it hangs on Detecting hardware.

---

### Post by jbicha on 2012-05-14
Miykel, I highly recommend trying Startup Disk Creator to make a bootable USB disk, especially in this early alpha stage of the development cycle. There's not much use in using a CD for something that may or may not work and is only useful for about a week or so anyway.

---

### Post by VMC on 2012-05-15
> **jerrylamos said:**
> No luck so far with May 14 quantal iso on an Acer Intel netbook and an Acer AMD notebook. 

1.  Try booting .iso file direct with Grub 2 function.  Has been working well with 10.04, 10.10, 11.04, 11.10, 12,04, not with 12.10 because squashfs can't find files.  Fails on both pc's.

...

I always use a usb flash disk. In fact I don't use disk-creator, I use syslinix and my own syslinux.cfg file and use 7zip to extract just the files needed for the usb.

Regarding the loopback boot from grub2. I have searched for a few days now. Your right, it worked on all the previous releases. Hopefully its just something with the current iso and will work on the first beta iso.

---

### Post by Miykel on 2012-05-15
G'Day Guys, Just done another install from a disc I just burned from the latest release and all is good, providing I got to try ubuntu then click n the install icon, if I install straight up , grub is a drama (???), one thing I noticed is that when I do a straight install the program wants to install grub on sdb1 but when i go through install icon it selects sdb1, next install I'll try the straight install and change grub location to sdb1 and see what happens.
 nVidia drivers still need the workaround before they will install or upgrade Xorg.
  I've tried burning the disc with braserio, startup disc, and in windows, iso burner and nero all the same result.
Regards Miykel

---

### Post by cmccauley on 2012-05-15
Just downloaded the daily build (May 15th) and booted using VirtualBox - no problem at all.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-05-15
> **jbicha said:**
> Miykel, I highly recommend trying Startup Disk Creator to make a bootable USB disk, especially in this early alpha stage of the development cycle. There's not much use in using a CD for something that may or may not work and is only useful for about a week or so anyway.

Yep, tried the "quantal startup disk creator", went fine, seemed to me install was 90% done and then the "null pointer 0000004C" errror again.  For whatever reason ubuntu-bug doesn't work either.  It starts then all its windows disappear.

Jerry

p.s. Startup disk creator to a USB is many times slower than booting .iso direct from hard drive like I did in Alpha and Beta for Precise, Oneiric, Narwhal, Meerkat, Lynx, Mint, ... plus, I was led to believe that "isohybrid" method was supported by ubuntu.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-05-15
> **cmccauley said:**
> Just downloaded the daily build (May 15th) and booted using VirtualBox - no problem at all.
Can you then do an install to the hard drive from Virtual Box?  I've never used Virtual Box since I've got multiple partitions and just choose one to try the .iso's.

Jerry

---

### Post by jppr on 2012-05-15
I just did fresh daily-live usb-stick installation and I haven´t any problem,

system works and run fast :popcorn:

---

### Post by cmccauley on 2012-05-15
> **jerrylamos said:**
> Can you then do an install to the hard drive from Virtual Box?  I've never used Virtual Box since I've got multiple partitions and just choose one to try the .iso's.

Jerry

Yes Jerry, you can add it as a virtual CD. When the VM starts up it acts as if it were booting from a live CD. Marginally easier than using a USB drive.


Chris

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-05-15
Made it!  Used an old technique to loop mount the .iso on a 1G partition on the main hard drive, multi booted with Windoze....7 which boots fine.  Much faster than creating a startup disk and doesn't care if the size is too large, boots and runs install a lot faster than CD or flash drive.

Install is on a left over laptop drive in a $10 USB case from Tiger Direct.  It's got a quetzal updated from precise apt sources.list, about 400 kb bigger than this fresh install, of course I do add some packages.

pc is set to boot from the USB.  Hopefully if the install goes bonk or if grub is screwed up it will be confined to the USB hard drive and not disturb (hopefully) the main hard drive which has Windoze...7, meerkat, two vintages of precise, and the loop mount quantal.  And an archive. 

All these contortions to semi-protect from the inevitable unstable development quetzal, grub, and particularly ubiquity install breaks.  Ripe field for finding bugs tho.

Jerry

---

### Post by VMC on 2012-05-16
> **jerrylamos said:**
> Made it!  Used an old technique to loop mount the .iso on a 1G partition on the main hard drive, multi booted with Windoze.......

Is your loop mount from grub2 or something  else?

If grub, then does it look like this:
```
menuentry "Ubuntu Live" {
	set root=(loop)
	set isofile="/ISO/quantal-desktop-amd64.iso"
	loopback loop (hd0,9)$isofile 
	linux /casper/vmlinuz boot=casper iso-scan/filename=$isofile quiet noeject noprompt splash --
	initrd /casper/initrd.lz
``` Mine still doesn't work. As you stated above, it has always worked until Quantal.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-05-16
What worked - first, gparted an ext3 partition at least 800 MB I use 1 GB
Then here's an exec to load the .iso:
Choose whatever partition # fits on your setup:

Do note, working with partitions can be dangerous, but this is a development forum on an "unstable" linux.

gedit Live8
#!/bin/bash
echo "LivePartition 8 hda(0,8)"
echo "sudo apt-get install gparted"
echo "sudo gparted"
echo "select 1 gb partition #8"
echo "format ext3"
echo "apply"
echo "quit"
mkdir /tmp/install_cd
sudo mount quantal-desktop-i386.iso -o loop /tmp/install_cd
sudo mkdir /mnt/installer
df
echo "Achtung!  Dangerous - which sda?"
reply temp
sudo mount /dev/sda8 /mnt/installer
sudo cp -rv /tmp/install_cd/* /mnt/installer
sudo cp -rv /tmp/install_cd/.disk /mnt/installer
sudo umount /tmp/install_cd
#
sudo gedit ~/40_custom Livesda8
exit 0

Append the following to /etc/grub.d/40_custom
sudo gedit Livesda8
menuentry "Live /dev/sda8" {
set root=(hd0,8)
linux /casper/vmlinuz boot=casper root=/dev/ram ramdisk_size=131072 rw quiet noprompt noeject
initrd /casper/initrd.lz
}

sudo update-grub

Reboot and choose Live /dev/sda8  It worked and I installed successfully, with the live partition on the hard disk and the target install on a USB hard drive.  Not sure if install will work to the same hard drive as the live partition.  It used to in the old days, then "someone" put in a check and it didn't, now I'm not sure.  I also have a tower with two hard drives so I can use the live partition on one of them to install to the other.

Now if you have a partition labelled casper-rw you could boot the live partition persistent, at which point the live partition performance approaches a real install performance, my opinion.  Just make sure if doing a new .iso to re-format casper-rw.

Have fun.  I'd really rather prefer to just boot the .iso but as is noted in this forum quantal's squashfs isn't working.

Now during pre-alpha alpha beta I do -lots- of installs on 4 pc's so I'd rather not fiddle with USB's so directly running off the hard disk works.

Jerry

---

### Post by bedbug on 2012-05-23
booting .iso file direct with Grub 2 

Now it Works !!

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/20120522/quantal-desktop-i386.iso](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/20120522/quantal-desktop-i386.iso)

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-05-24
?  Not a .iso problem per se, just noticed on today's update/upgrade to 3.4.0-3 it's generic without pae, while it was generic-pae on 3.4.0-2.  Yes the processor has a pae flag and has 2G memory.

Jerry

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2012-05-24
Downloaded and installed 64 bit daily today.
Partition on a 'triple' boot. Went very well. Running smooth :)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-24
My grub loopmount did not work with my first download. But the update a couple of days ago worked. But I changed my boot drive from sdb  to sdd, so my numbering in my 40_custom changed & I had to edit it from hd0 to hd2. The iso folder in on sdb4 on a gpt partitioned drive.

```
menuentry "Uubuntu 12.10 Quantal ISO 64bit" {

    set isofile="/iso/quantal-desktop-amd64.iso"
    insmod part_gpt
    loopback loop (hd2,4)$isofile 
    linux (loop)/casper/vmlinuz boot=casper iso-scan/filename=$isofile nomodeset
    initrd (loop)/casper/initrd.lz
}

```

---

### Post by VMC on 2012-05-25
Yes, finally, today's loop worked. I'll try again tomorrow's ISO. I already installed today's from usb flash.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-05-31
Quantal ubiquity 31 May zsync stopped dead when I assume trying to scan partitions.  Note running from USB flash, intended target USB hard drive hopefully not screwing up the internal hard drive.  No matter, pc stopped cold while scanning partitions.  Only thing that worked was the power off button.  Whole screen full of messages no way to copy short of a camera.

Update: 1 June i386.iso installed USB stick O.K. from precise startup disk creator.  quantal's startup disk creator USB stick screwed up desk top, see thread in this forum.

Jerry

---

