---
title: "...is it me, or have you put on weight?"
date: 2012-09-28
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Quantal Quetzal) (Closed)
---

### Post by WorLord on 2012-09-28
TL;DR: Call for info -- I would like to know how much memory everyone's Xorg and Compiz process are using, and does it grow with time?  And what video card and driver are you using?  This will help me figure out whether or not to create a defect in Launchpad.

Regular Version: Brand new install, older system.

Compiz *started* the session taking up 240MB of RAM.  Xorg was around 100.  Using Unity (opening closing programs, doing stuff, you know) kept increasing Compiz's memory footprint, so I decided to take action and see what processes were running.

There were eight ( 8 ) unity-music-syncdaemon processes in the list, and some other services.  I thought this odd, and won't plan on using that lens anyway, so I thought I could trim some fat by uninstalling some lenses and services.  

After a reboot, Compiz was around 120MB.  Better.  Much better.  More like Precise.  But with use after three hours or so, Compiz was up to 260MB.  

In contrast, Gnome-Shell never even made it to 200 (175MB average), but with an Xorg of 130MB or so.

Is anyone else noticing how *fat* Compiz has become?  Is this part of the plan?  Are there leaks in the indexing services, or is it just me?  

For the record: Intel Dual Core, nVidia 560Ti, binary blob driver ("Experimental" 304.whatever.)

---

### Post by GreatDanton on 2012-09-28
According to conky compiz is using 83,5Mb, Xorg 54,8Mb. I didn't noticed high ram usage, but I noticed that my both processors are constantly running at 15%. I am not doing anything special (I am listening to music and browsing). In the previous versions processors were around 6-9%.

Hope this helps.

Regards.

---

### Post by WorLord on 2012-09-28
What video card and driver are you using?  There have been differences in the past, especially between vendor-supplied binary vs. open source driver.

Also, the processor time is likely the indexing (video/music/ubuntuone sync daemons).

---

### Post by GreatDanton on 2012-09-28
Graphic card: Ati radeon HD4870
Drivers:  lshw -c video
```
 *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: RV770 [Radeon HD 4870]
       vendor: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: 00
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm pciexpress msi vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=radeon latency=0
       resources: irq:44 memory:d0000000-dfffffff memory:fe8e0000-fe8effff ioport:c000(size=256) memory:fe8c0000-fe8dffff

```

---

### Post by WorLord on 2012-09-28
Thanks.  I wonder if its nVidia blob related, given that news.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-09-28
There are blogs about significant internet traffic increases with QQ Beta and also significant battery life loss like from 5 hours down to 3.5.

All I notice in Ubuntu Planet is more and more stuff to be in the standard release.  How big are USB sticks.....

Now I've still got disk space and no limit on internet traffic rather than boredom at 1.5 mb.

If the clutter and overhead and "everything for everyone all the time" bother me I just log out of unity/compiz and log into another desktop, in my case lately lxde.  If I boot Precise I use 2D which I prefer to lxde but there's no interest in Ubuntu development.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2012-09-28
Well, a fresh install of Beta2 results in good stuff. Compiz takes only 4% CPU, quad Intel at idle runs at 2% with an analog clock with sweep second hands, Gkrellm running showing all the good stuff, and indicator-multiload running. Wow!

And I've never seen such video speed: gtkperf = 2.96; in 12.04, 4.6. Now that is one big improvement. Of course I have Intel graphics, Intel box. Notice my signature. Unity rocks!

---

