---
title: "12.10, Wine, Google Earth unable to connect to  Internet"
date: 2012-09-16
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Quantal Quetzal) (Closed)
---

### Post by mynot on 2012-09-16
Wine and Google Earth are unable to connect to the Internet. Everything else is OK (Chrome, Thunderbird etc). Any ideas where I should start? A Google search on the title hasn't turned up anything that works.
Thanks

---

### Post by Toz on 2012-09-16
Why not use the linux client of google-earth? See: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GoogleEarth]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GoogleEarth"). Works pretty well.

---

### Post by mynot on 2012-09-17
Thanks.I should've been more explicit. 

Under Ubuntu, Firefox and Thunderbird (also ping etc.) find the Internet ok.

Under Ubuntu, Google Earth doesn't contact the Google image server.

Under Wine, Firefox doesn't connect to the Internet. 

(There may well be two separate problems here, but it seems odd).

I've completely removed Wine and Google Earth then re-installed Google Earth only and it still can't connect to the server. I can, however, ping the server (kh.google.com).

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-09-17
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu +1 (Quantal Quetzal)**.*

---

### Post by mynot on 2012-09-17
What on earth does this last message (from "nothing special" mean? As far as I can work out my query has nothing to do with the next version of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-09-17
12.10 is the development version, due for release in October.  The current release is 12.04.

If you are running 12.10, you are using the development version -- the next version.

Your post was moved to the section for discussion of the development version.

---

### Post by mynot on 2012-09-18
It was not a good day! It's 12.04. I'll start again on the 12.04 thread.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-09-18
Thread closed, as the op isn't using Quantal.

---

