---
title: "12.10 system lockup"
date: 2012-10-12
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Quantal Quetzal) (Closed)
---

### Post by Billxyzzy on 2012-10-12
Got a problem with 1210.  My mouse is locked up and non functional.  Reboots do nothing.
Using the recovery console and selecting dpkg cause dpkg to hang up.
Selecting a terminal on boot up and run sudo dpkg --configure -a causes a lockup 
Running sudo apt-get update causes a message that dpkg failed with requirement of running sudo dpkg --configure -a
but just a lockup when tried.
apt-get upgrade same dpkg message.
Any one got a workaround short of reinstall?
I can't run zsync.

---

### Post by balloons on 2012-10-12
Does a livecd work properly -- that sounds a bit like some hardware quirkiness.

---

### Post by Billxyzzy on 2012-10-12
Need a bigger hammer.  
When I ran dpkg --configure -a and got a lockup I
issued CtrlC  and it continued.
reported problems with Memtest86 and ubuntu-standard.
Further it reported /var/lib/os-prober/mount not
able to unmount.
also reported same as not existing.
was able to run sudo apt-get upgrade but it locked up at the end.
Did a system restart and am now up (for how long I don't know)
are these GRUB problems?
It found my Windows 7 disk and seemes like this just adds to the problems.

---

### Post by Billxyzzy on 2012-10-12
P. S.  I will use the DD command to create a bootable disk and see what happens.

Don't want to install yet until I get into later this week. Closer to the release.

---

