---
title: "12.10 daily build on asus eee x101ch crashes"
date: 2012-09-02
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Quantal Quetzal) (Closed)
---

### Post by michelf41 on 2012-09-02
Lubuntu 12.10 quantal alpha 3 is working fine on my Asus x101ch. I can recommend.
(see bug 1014035 if black screen)
But when trying Ubuntu daily build (01/09/2012) from usb, startup ends with an insertion dash on top of a black screen.
Just hoping this report may be useful to developers.
Best regards

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2012-09-02
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu +1 (Quantal Quetzal)**.*

---

### Post by GreatDanton on 2012-09-02
Yes daily build is currently not working. If you want to install Ubuntu 12.10 you have to download Alpha3 image and after that install all updates: [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.10/alpha-3/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.10/alpha-3/)

Regards.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-09-02
> **michelf41 said:**
> Lubuntu 12.10 quantal alpha 3 is working fine on my Asus x101ch. I can recommend.
(see bug 1014035 if black screen)
But when trying Ubuntu daily build (01/09/2012) from usb, startup ends with an insertion dash on top of a black screen.
Just hoping this report may be useful to developers.
Best regards

Unfortunately most of the developers don't read this sub-forum, you would be better to add your info to an existing bug. 

Due to the lack of details in your post, I can't point you to a bug report. We need to know what graphics adapter your system is using.

---

### Post by Gyokuro on 2012-09-02
**Forbidden**

 You don't have permission to access /~jbicha/gnomebuntu/quantal-ubuntu-gnome-amd64-20120902.iso.torrent on this server.

---

### Post by michelf41 on 2012-09-02
My system crashes when I update and I have to reinstall alpha 3. 
I have done it twice already.
So I won't try again soon.
As for the graphic adapter, I think my netbook does not have any : graphics is managed by the Intel atom dual core processor.
That is why I had to opt for 12.10. (On 12.04, I could not get the right resolution.)
I apologize if I say stupidities : I am a layman.

---

### Post by nm_geo on 2012-09-02
> **GreatDanton said:**
> Yes daily build is currently not working. If you want to install Ubuntu 12.10 you have to download Alpha3 image and after that install all updates: [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.10/alpha-3/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.10/alpha-3/)

Regards.

Not exactly correct.... I did get a complete entire drive install from a live persistent USB 20120902 build..

However tried the "Do Something Else" manual install also and it crashed in partitioning... 

I am now updating and see a new unity in the packages will see if I can reboot 
and return on this little old Samsung N150 Plus notebook.

Intel® Atom&#8482; CPU N450 @ 1.66GHz × 2

Just updated all 8 packages and I still have a workable install with unity working

---

### Post by nm_geo on 2012-09-02
> **michelf41 said:**
> My system crashes when I update and I have to reinstall alpha 3. 
I have done it twice already.
So I won't try again soon.
As for the graphic adapter, I think my netbook does not have any : graphics is managed by the Intel atom dual core processor.
That is why I had to opt for 12.10. (On 12.04, I could not get the right resolution.)
I apologize if I say stupidities : I am a layman.

You might provide the following ..
```
test@test-N150P-N210P-N220P:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Atom Processor D4xx/D5xx/N4xx/N5xx DMI Bridge
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Atom Processor D4xx/D5xx/N4xx/N5xx Integrated Graphics Controller
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Atom Processor D4xx/D5xx/N4xx/N5xx Integrated Graphics Controller
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 2 (rev 02)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 3 (rev 02)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 4 (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.3 USB controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e2)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation NM10 Family LPC Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH7 Family SATA Controller [AHCI mode] (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family SMBus Controller (rev 02)
05:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) (rev 01)
09:00.0 Ethernet controller: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 88E8040 PCI-E Fast Ethernet Controller
test@test-N150P-N210P-N220P:~$ 

```Lots of the recent problems are hard ware related.

---

### Post by michelf41 on 2012-09-03
Reply to nm_geo:
Here is the output of lspci:

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Atom Processor D2xxx/N2xxx DRAM Controller (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Atom Processor D2xxx/N2xxx Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 09)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 2 (rev 02)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 3 (rev 02)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 4 (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.3 USB controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e2)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation NM10 Family LPC Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH7 Family SATA Controller [AHCI mode] (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family SMBus Controller (rev 02)
02:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) (rev 01)
04:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR8152 v2.0 Fast Ethernet (rev c1)

---

### Post by michelf41 on 2012-09-14
X display down again after updating today (14/09/2012) !
Startup ending with command line.
Could it be linked to kernel 3.5.0.14 ?
Everything was OK with daily build 20120909.
What command should I try to launch X display ?
Thanks

---

### Post by michelf41 on 2012-09-18
Still no X display with Lubuntu quantal beta release.
Startup ends with command line.
"startx" ends in error.
(Testing in "try" mode from usb stick.)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-09-18
The live image still has some problems, did you try setting nodmodeset, before booting?

---

### Post by michelf41 on 2012-09-19
Today, after upgrade, booting still ends in command line mode.
Trying startx crashes with "(EE) Segmentation fault at address 0x3c"
Fatal server error:
Caught signal 11 (Segmentation fault). Server

---

### Post by michelf41 on 2012-09-28
Anyway, it is not due to the kernel.
but it is still there today.

Here is what I did:
Lubuntu quantal alpha 3 install: OK, working fine.
Updating kernel to 3.6.0-030600rc7: OK, same.
Upgrading the usual way excluding kernel, then booting with 3.6.0-030600rc7: no X display, command line only.
Entering xinit (or startx) on command line: "Segmentation fault at address 0x3c ... aborting"

---

