---
title: "12.10 upgrade vs dist-upgrade"
date: 2012-08-20
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Quantal Quetzal) (Closed)
---

### Post by sml on 2012-08-20
I have been running 12.10 for a few weeks now and regularly upgrade packages.

When I run 'dist-upgrade', it occasionally pulls in more packages than just 'upgrade'.

As no 13.04 is in existence yet, I would have thought that they would do the same thing.

I don't want to head to 13.04, just keep updating 12.10, so should i use 'upgrade' or dist-upgrade'?

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-08-20
dist-upgrade does not attempt to upgrade your Ubuntu version, nor does it pull in packages from the next version.  dist-upgrade does the same thing as upgrade, adding also the attempt to "intelligently" resolve dependencies associated with new versions of packages in the current Ubuntu version.  So newer dependencies are often drawn in and newer kernel versions within the same Ubuntu version are may be drawn in sooner.

This can sometimes cause issues for users who often compile from source, as new dependencies drawn in for "standard" application packages from the repos may break manually compiled applications expecting the older dependencies.

Are you running Quantal as a daily use machine?  Do you realize that it is still in development and subject to breakage?

---

### Post by sml on 2012-08-20
but there is no 13.04 yet, so the command would do the same thing then?

but it doesnt?

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-08-20
No, it does not do the same thing, as I explained.  It does more.  And it has absolutely nothing to do with any version other than the current version you are using.

Updating to a new version of Ubuntu is an entirely different command.

Edit:  perhaps reading through 

```
man apt-get
```

would be helpful.

---

### Post by sml on 2012-08-20
sorry .. yes, understand.

ok .. so pretty much all general users would use dist-upgrade regularly.

---

### Post by meborc on 2012-08-20
> **sml said:**
> sorry .. yes, understand.

ok .. so pretty much all general users would use dist-upgrade regularly.

yes, but you must be careful and see if dist-upgrade does not want to remove some packages that are important to you

i run "sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade" daily, but will abort if I see major parts of the system being removed (gnome, nautilus etc... ) it can happen if there is a depencency hell going on in the mirrors :)

also see this - [http://askubuntu.com/questions/81585/what-is-dist-upgrade-and-why-does-it-upgrade-more-than-upgrade](http://askubuntu.com/questions/81585/what-is-dist-upgrade-and-why-does-it-upgrade-more-than-upgrade)

---

### Post by Sworddragon on 2012-08-20
"apt-get upgrade" holds packages back if it will add or remove another packages but "apt-get dist-upgrade" will do all the actions. You will automatically stay at Ubuntu 12.10 if you doesn't update your sources.list.

---

