---
title: "12.04 vs 12.10"
date: 2012-09-22
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Quantal Quetzal) (Closed)
---

### Post by Yeeha on 2012-09-22
What will be good points for sticking with 12.04 or going for 12.10 when 12.10 will be released?For example - since everything possible is going to be ported to Python3 will it mean that this release wont be as stable as LTS probably? I am thinking whether to wait for 12.10 or stick with 12.04 for such enviroment that keeps working and i dont plan to upgrade every now and then. So its latest stuff vs stability.

---

### Post by Lyfang on 2012-09-22
I plan to upgrade to 12.10 since I use Lubuntu and Lubuntu 12.04 is not a LTS.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2012-09-22
Xubuntu 12.04 seems quite solid, and it IS a Long Term Support release which 12.10 won't be. I've put a couple of things from 12.10 into my 12.04, via PPAs; I've taken XFCE itself from 4.8 to 4.10, and the cpugraph plugin for Thunar also (to get a bug fix that has not yet been back-ported since it's not security related, just makes a feature unusable). There's also a bug in lightdm that leaves zombie processes behind, that is fixed for 12.10 but not yet back-ported; I'm waiting for either an update or a PPA to correct that as well.

Nevertheless, I'm using 12.04 on a production machine and it's working well for me. My advice would be not to wait -- any new release is going to have a few bugs for the first couple of months. I waited almost five months before getting 12.04, giving time for most of the bugs to be found and swatted.

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2012-09-22
> **Yeeha said:**
> What will be good points for sticking with 12.04 or going for 12.10 when 12.10 will be released?For example - since everything possible is going to be ported to Python3 ...


Well almost nothing will be ported to Python3, leaving Python2.7 the main base.
If it is stability you want, then stick to LTS only.

---

### Post by exploder on 2012-09-22
I plan on staying with 12.04 myself because it has been so dependable and working pretty much bug free at this time. The only real fix I had to do to 12.04 was for mp4 playback and I added the ppa for the new version of minitube. I have been keeping an eye on 12.10 and the refinements and features that are going into Unity though.

My thinking is that by the time the next LTS release rolls around Unity will be very refined and greatly improved. Unity has exceeded my expectations and I am happy with the new ideas that are being used and I think it is attracting new users to at least give Linux a try now. 

I do agree about waiting at least a couple of months before switching to a new release to ensure most of the bugs are resolved.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-09-22
I will have both. 

But my wife has complained about too many changes, so we may be on 12.04 for a while. But I will have 12.10 on another 25GB partition and see if I can configure it close enough that my wife will not complain. :)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-09-22
IF you are looking for stability, stick with 12.04, as the others have stated. The interim releases (between LTS releases) aren't meant to be stable, they are used to try out new features that will be included in the next LTS release.

---

### Post by robtygart on 2012-09-22
I will go to Kubuntu 12.10. I am using Beta now, and its going smooth, I haven't had a crash yet :-({|= and its Beta :confused:

---

### Post by funicorn on 2012-09-22
Unity as a key DE project is under developing and not perfect. Thus it's certain users  should keep upgrading, experience the new features and make sure these can be done in a natural way, i.e., distro upgrade.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-09-22
> **funicorn said:**
> Unity as a key DE project is under developing and not perfect. Thus it's certain users  should keep upgrading, experience the new features and make sure these can be done in a natural way, i.e., distro upgrade.

That's why we have this sub-forum, for the majority of users, that don't have the inclination or the skill to use a development release, I would much rather seem them stick with LTS releases, after all there's a new LTS release every 2 years. :)

For those of us that are concerned with using the latest application versions, even the development version isn't enough.

---

### Post by StinkySQL on 2012-09-22
Ravenous technical appetite = 12.10 ;)

---

### Post by mensfort on 2012-09-22
I have to use Ubuntu 12.10, even the beta-releases... because it supports multi-touch devices. My touch screen does nothing in Ubuntu 12.4 and also not in Maya 13. So, it depends on your hardware.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-09-23
I have been switching to every new Ubuntu development release since 7.04. For those who need Long Term Service support an LTS release will suit their purposes. That, I think, is the most import reason for sticking to an LTS and not upgrading to the next distribution release.

By switching to each new distribution release I have received as much support as those who stayed at 10.04 but in addition I have received what is new in Ubuntu each time.

By the way I would never use a development release as the only operating system on my machine. I have been using the development release since 11.10 and I always have the latest distribution release controlling the machine with a dual, triple or even a quadruple boot in the development branch.

Regards.

---

