---
title: "13.04 Raring Ringtail"
date: 2012-10-18
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Quantal Quetzal) (Closed)
---

### Post by Harry33 on 2012-10-18
Mark Shuttleworths words:

"Yes, we are talking about Ubuntu 13.04, dubbed Raring Ringtail and scheduled for release next year on April 25th.
 
 Some of you will be thrilled to learn that Ubuntu 13.04 will be built  especially for mobile hardware, from netbooks and laptops, to tablets,  TVs and smartphones.
 
 Therefore, it looks like Ubuntu 13.04  promises better battery life, better memory management, better  management of running processes."
 
 The release schedule for Ubuntu 13.04:
 
 December 6th, 2012 – Alpha 1
 February 7th, 2013 – Alpha 2
 March 7th, 2013 – Beta
 April 18th, 2013 – Release Candidate
 April 25th, 2013 – Final release

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2012-10-18
BTW.
Ringtail *(Bassariscus astutus)* is a cat like mammal.
A close relative to a common raccoon[I] (Procyon lotor).
[/I]

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-10-18
raring :P raring to start:P

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-10-18
[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/1195](http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/1195)

---

### Post by buckyaustin on 2012-10-18
Can't wait to see this Ubuntu, wonder what will be updated, I'm sure there will be a graphical difference in this Ubuntu. Also being able to be installed in a tablet means Ubuntu will be progressing along with Windows and Mac. Sounds good to me.

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-10-18
> **buckyaustin said:**
> Can't wait to see this Ubuntu, wonder what will be updated, I'm sure there will be a graphical difference in this Ubuntu. Also being able to be installed in a tablet means Ubuntu will be progressing along with Windows and Mac. Sounds good to me.

I have a feeling it will be performance under the hood and bug fixing unity and dash.

There are way too many services started at boot up.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2012-10-18
considering that most entry level tablets would be considered "low resource" by desktop or laptop standards , they need to step back the requirements and the "abandoning" of older hardware that occured with quantal is going in the wrong direction .

---

### Post by ventrical on 2012-10-18
> **ronacc said:**
> considering that most entry level tablets would be considered "low resource" by desktop or laptop standards , they need to step back the requirements and the "abandoning" of older hardware that occured with quantal is going in the wrong direction .

Lets hope so. I mean tablets are cool.. but they are impractical and are mostly a fad.  Tablets and smartphones are just too tight to work with. IMO

---

### Post by ronacc on 2012-10-18
If the target is desktop replacement as MS seems to be aiming for with the "surface" that will not be a satisfactory use . if they are targeted at mainly entertainment and information access as Apple and the Android tablets are doing I think the fill a huge need that we didn't even know we had a couple of years ago .

---

### Post by rg4w on 2012-10-18
> **Harry33 said:**
> Mark Shuttleworths words:

"Yes, we are talking about Ubuntu 13.04, dubbed Raring Ringtail and scheduled for release next year on April 25th.
 
 Some of you will be thrilled to learn that Ubuntu 13.04 will be built  especially for mobile hardware, from netbooks and laptops, to tablets,  TVs and smartphones...."
Has Canonical posted the User Interface Design Guidelines for this yet?  I like the scope defined for 13.04, but in order to have apps for it we'll need to see some serious revisions from developers.

---

### Post by kaldor on 2012-10-18
> **ventrical said:**
> Lets hope so. I mean tablets are cool.. but they are impractical and are mostly a fad.  Tablets and smartphones are just too tight to work with. IMO

My tablet has replaced my laptop as a mobile device. It's also more enjoyable for lazy web browsing/reading than my desktop PC :-) 

There are some real issues, yes, but I assume they'll gain a lot of traction over the next few years.

I *really* can't see how Ubuntu can compete with Android, iOS, Blackberry, or Windows on tablets though.

---

