---
title: "12.10 RC Images live now!"
date: 2012-10-12
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Quantal Quetzal) (Closed)
---

### Post by balloons on 2012-10-12
The first RC images started landing on the isotracker last night. You know what this means :-) Testing time! Have a look here and get started!

[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/240/builds](http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/240/builds)

If you've never tested before, check out this handy wiki guide:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO/Walkthrough](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO/Walkthrough)

I know there was some confusion about if we're having RC's or not.. I think it's just the label that may be confusing. These images are being tested as the final image -- in that sense they are candidate images for the final. Etheir way, we could use your help! Take time to test the installer on your hardware, test upgrades from precise, etc. Use real hardware, complex systems, etc. If you find something of the critical nature, file a bug and please raise it on the ubuntu-qa list, on #ubuntu-testing or #ubuntu-release if possible so it can be looked at asap. Thanks for helping test everyone!

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-10-12
is there some torrents set around to help the servers ? as they are already slowing down when updating today .

---

### Post by balloons on 2012-10-12
> **dino99 said:**
> is there some torrents set around to help the servers ? as they are already slowing down when updating today .

I don't believe any torrents are made for these images, since they can and do change as we test them. Although, the torrent could be self-updating to reflect this -- anyways, zsync is your best friend here. And yes, things are getting hammered! I hope that's a good sign? ;-p

---

### Post by funicorn on 2012-10-12
$ cat /etc/issue
Ubuntu 12.10 \n \l

---

### Post by quids on 2012-10-12
Not going well on my system. I can't get nvidia drivers installed on todays build.

I got the nvidia drivers installed on the daily build two days ago, but was getting applications crashing everytime I was trying to save a document.

---

### Post by nardusg on 2012-10-12
O crap, now I will have/need to reinstall ;)

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-10-14
20121013 build install to:
Acer Aspire 1 netbook (running B2)
USB hard drive 
manual partitioning "change" drop down window appears then
hung up 
whole thing froze nothing worked except power off button.  
No way to do a ubuntu-bug ubiquity. 
Repeats same failure.

Copied same .iso to Compaq tower 
installed O.K. 
in midst of doing setup flashplugin turn off website integration clutter etc.

Doing another zsync.  93% complete so there are some changes....
Try install again...

Edit: as of 10/16 installed and running.  External TV monitor displays two sizes of wallpaper overlaid and two sets of top panel applets. bug #1067330  That's a regression, not seen on A1, A2, A3, B1, B2 

Jerry

---

### Post by converted on 2012-10-14
> **quids said:**
> Not going well on my system. I can't get nvidia drivers installed on todays build.

I got the nvidia drivers installed on the daily build two days ago, but was getting applications crashing everytime I was trying to save a document.

I'm glad it's not just me.

Just by luck I happened to jump in early yesterday and grab the daily build that must have become the RC (no updates to it at all since the time I installed yesterday).

Anyhow, I can't get any nvidia driver installed either.  Well, I can get it installed, but my system is useless until I remove it -- After installing any of the nvidia binaries, I get wrong resolution at the greeter, and the system hangs up before fully loading the desktop.

Are these similar to your symptoms?  Any idea if there is already an open bug?  (I haven't found one, but want to be sure before I would submit.)

This has just happened to be my first taste of 12.10, so no idea if there is known history here..

---

### Post by sgage on 2012-10-14
> **converted said:**
> I'm glad it's not just me.

Just by luck I happened to jump in early yesterday and grab the daily build that must have become the RC (no updates to it at all since the time I installed yesterday).

Anyhow, I can't get any nvidia driver installed either.  Well, I can get it installed, but my system is useless until I remove it -- After installing any of the nvidia binaries, I get wrong resolution at the greeter, and the system hangs up before fully loading the desktop.

Are these similar to your symptoms?  Any idea if there is already an open bug?  (I haven't found one, but want to be sure before I would submit.)

This has just happened to be my first taste of 12.10, so no idea if there is known history here..

I just installed yesterday's daily about an hour ago. nvidia-current installed and works fine. I just used apt-get, nothing fancy.

---

### Post by converted on 2012-10-14
Hmmm..

I can't imagine why it would make a difference, but on the off chance it's the Additional Drivers front end causing the problem, I'll give it another shot using apt-get.

Then open a bug report I guess...

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-10-14
Reference note #7

Was able to get install of 20121014 up on the Aspire 1 netbook.

Compiz has fits of shakes.

Install "change" drop down menu really wild flickering back and forth with a bunch of wild selections.  Held down left button and used up/down arrows to finally get Ext4 selected.  Compiz doing some funny flashing in background.

Anyway, up and running and updated (with sudo-apt get update, dist-upgrade I turn "Update Manager" off ASAP in Software Sources.

Using external TV "unknown monitor" 1366x768 with xrandr in .xprofile and a manual xorg.conf.  Took some wild searches in the forums to get it running.  Obviously not Ubuntu's target market.

Wireless WPA2 security up and running - network manager difficult and very slow eventually gets going.  On boot it Connects then automatically Disconnects requiring manual sudo dhclient wlan0, wait 5 seconds, Ctrl-c.  Obviously not Ubuntu's target configuration.  Yes there's a bug written.  No action from developers.

No showstoppers.  Obviously not "plug and play" for a newbie.

---

### Post by converted on 2012-10-14
> **sgage said:**
> I just installed yesterday's daily about an hour ago. nvidia-current installed and works fine. I just used apt-get, nothing fancy.

OK well if anyone else **is** having my problem as noted a few posts back, here is your solution:

Running apt-get in the terminal (thanks for making me think of that), and piping it through less, I noticed this:

```
Building only for 3.5.0-17-generic
Building for architecture x86_64
Module build for the currently running kernel was skipped since the
kernel source for this kernel does not seem to be installed.
```

So I did:

```
sudo apt-get purge nvidia-current
```

Then:
```

sudo apt-get install linux-source linux-headers-generic
```

Then:

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
```

And all is well...  :)

Edit:  Left out a step.  Also, I suspect that you may only need the headers, but I didn't feel like any further experimentation, so installedboth to be sure.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-10-14
Install O.K. on Acer Aspire 5253 wide screen notebook

Booted to solid purple screen
Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Wrestler [Radeon HD 6310]

Had same trouble with B2.

Booted again, removed splash, booted O.K.

So far RC much less buggy on my netbook, notebook, with tower fewer anklebiters no showstoppers.

Disabled integration clutter I think.

Thursday Oct 18 still boots to solid purple screen unless "splash" removed.  Advanced options really lousy jerky screen 1024x768 instead of 1366x768.

Network manager very flaky.  Half the time disconnects fromn wireless WPA security instead of connecting.
Broadcom Corporation BCM43225 802.11b/g/n (rev 01)

---

### Post by ventrical on 2012-10-15
zsynced the Oct. 14th daily. Works just great  on all the three systems I have tested so far.  This Release has some surprises for older laptops (Acer Aspire 3620/1.5Mhz). From the USB key with 'Try Ubuntu' one gets a really snappy Unity experience (where the USB flash actually runs faster than the hdd.) It's just one of those hybrid phenomenons which happens with Ubuntu every so often (as with Maveric and Lucid).

 Also works great 'live'  with ATi system but I did not get Ubiquity on a tower with a much older nVidia card (but with Kubuntu Quantal - or any other version of Kubuntu it's a no-brainer that most older graphics cards will be detected and utilized properly).+1 for Xubuntu and Lubuntu.


So if it is any consolation to the devs .. Great work!!

As for the Acer Aspire ?? Unity is just hopping. I don't understand the entire mechanics of why this is .. however I am gong to install to hdd and see what happens next ! :)

Always surprises!!:)

regards,

ventrical

---

### Post by thotz on 2012-10-15
I have tested RC so far.

+ Start times are ok

+ Shutdown takes too long (not only happenening to me)

+ Still Unity integration and Compiz bugs [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/1065578](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/1065578)

+ Very ugly Icons for xterm and xdiagnose: There is a bug report somewhere it was fixed at least for GNOME, but not in Unity the Design Team has to look at this

+ Still not very pleased with default turning on amazon and one music store, here in the installer there should be asked would be the most logical way!

---

### Post by vaibhav on 2012-10-15
Is it good time to upgrade from 12.04?

---

### Post by mcellius on 2012-10-15
> **vaibhav said:**
> Is it good time to upgrade from 12.04?

It's gettin' close.  In three days - on Thursday - it'll be better.  The Release Candidate out there now is good, but over the next few days there'll be additional bug fixes, so when the final version comes out on Thursday, it should be more reliable and complete.

---

### Post by sugarysnack on 2012-10-15
> **converted said:**
> OK well if anyone else **is** having my problem as noted a few posts back, here is your solution:

Running apt-get in the terminal (thanks for making me think of that), and piping it through less, I noticed this:

```
Building only for 3.5.0-17-generic
Building for architecture x86_64
Module build for the currently running kernel was skipped since the
kernel source for this kernel does not seem to be installed.
```

So I did:

```
sudo apt-get purge nvidia-current
```

Then:
```

sudo apt-get install linux-source linux-headers-generic
```

Then:

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
```

And all is well...  :)

Edit:  Left out a step.  Also, I suspect that you may only need the headers, but I didn't feel like any further experimentation, so installedboth to be sure.

These steps worked for me. Thanks a ton.

---

### Post by converted on 2012-10-16
^^ I'm thrilled that I was able to help someone out! :mrgreen:

---

### Post by ventrical on 2012-10-17
> **vaibhav said:**
> Is it good time to upgrade from 12.04?

At this stage of development  Quantal has greatly stablized and now may be a good a time as any. It is rock-solid Ubuntu at it's best. There may be some video graphics drivers on some hybrid machines (or older machines with older-lesser graphics adapters) but for the most part my several install of quantal have performed  exquisitely. All of my Intel chipset based towers and laptops have rarely even burped and ATI  cards have responded just as well.  There was only one major glitch with past developed nvidia driver and  xserver-xorg side by side but even that has been resolved and I had been able to recover all of my busted nVidia installed without re-installation.

  If you want to play it safe then try Kubuntu instead. It has behaved exceptionaly well through this most recent whole development process.

Regards, ventrical

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2012-10-17
> **ventrical said:**
> At this stage of development  Quantal has greatly stablized and now may be a good a time as any. It is rock-solid Ubuntu at it's best.

Agreed, for me a very good release. No major problems noted while I've been running Ubuntu over the last couple of weeks. I've reported or confirmed a couple of bugs but nothing serious enough to stop me using 12.10. :)

> **ventrical said:**
> If you want to play it safe then try Kubuntu instead. It has behaved exceptionally well through this most recent whole development process.

I'm still using my Kubuntu installation dating from early June, i.e. Alpha 1. But then recent Kubuntu development cycles are always like this, at least that's been my experience. :p

Edit: Lubuntu on my netbook has behaved itself too.

---

