---
title: "UNR 10.10 Launcher not working properly"
date: 2010-11-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bbright20 on 2010-11-12
I recently download the UNR 10.10, the look and feel is great on my netbook; however, I've ran into a few problems.

First, when I right click on an item in the launcher I do not have the option to "keep in launcher" or "add to launcher" whichever it maybe. I've added a few applications and would like to add them to the launcher.

[COLOR="Red"]***I assume all it took was for me to post this and this problem was fixed. I installed it 2 nights ago and never had any luck. I restarted multiple times also!***[/COLOR]

***I'm still having problems with the last two items. Any suggestions?***

Second, I can't right click on the top menu to add to the panel. Has this option been replaced?

Third, How do I access my the system settings or even just the main menu? I have looked all over for these.

I've tried several google searches and looked throughout the threads on here and no luck. Any help would be much appreciated!

---

### Post by Oracladeus on 2011-03-10
Funny to me how old this post is and NO ONE ANSWERED IT!!!  Here I am 5 months later with the same crazy question.  Where is the system settings?????  

I mean really guys.  Geez.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2011-03-10
> **Oracladeus said:**
> Funny to me how old this post is and NO ONE ANSWERED IT!!!  Here I am 5 months later with the same crazy question.  Where is the system settings?????  

I mean really guys.  Geez.


that's because it was new at the time & they built it using mutter, which sucks.

> Where is the system settings?????

what settings? system is a whole list of things. any which way there all in the applications, just got to look.
the panel can not be added to because it is not gnome-panel.

the 10.10 version sucks, you might as well, grab 11.04 which is being built using compiz, sure it's not complete, but it's still better than the 10.10 version.
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/)

menu is named "main menu" in the applications. see pic

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-03-10
I believe the system settings are in amongst the programs in the Applications place. Otherwise you can open the terminal and type 'gnome-control-center'.

---

