---
title: "7.10, 8.04 and 8.10 wont work!"
date: 2008-11-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Rave Gloves on 2008-11-18
Ok i have been trying to get ubuntu for about 4 days now and i started off and downloaded 8.10 the disk is fine it has no errors but when i try to install the screen goes black and my laptop is just not reponsive at all same happend with 8.04 and 7.10.

Can someone help i have no idea what i have done wrong.

---

### Post by Therion on 2008-11-18
Are you familiar with how to burn an .iso file to create a bootable CD or DVD?

---

### Post by Rave Gloves on 2008-11-18
Yes i followed the guide at [http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/iso](http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/iso)

and everything seems to be in order disk loads up fine but when the install bar gets to the end it makes a theme noise and just black :/

---

### Post by Therion on 2008-11-18
> **Rave Gloves said:**
> Yes i followed the guide at [http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/iso](http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/iso)

and everything seems to be in order disk loads up fine but when the install bar gets to the end it makes a theme noise and just black :/
Ah... Okay, now we're getting somewhere -- the infamous black screen of Death.  This is a video issue and is *usually* resolvable.  Do you know, or can you ascertain, what video card or integrated graphics chipset your PC has installed?

EDIT: Currently at work and leaving soon...  Search the forums on "black screen" or "black screen of death" and you should get some hits on how to resolve this (assuming your PC is using either nVidia or ATI graphics).

---

### Post by Rave Gloves on 2008-11-18
Is this what you are looking for 

Chip type: Intel(R) 82852/55 Graphics Controller

?

---

### Post by Rave Gloves on 2008-11-19
I searched and its nothing for what im looking for other people are having the problem but they have already installed ubuntu and are updating it.

Anyone else got any ideas?

---

