---
title: ".tar"
date: 2011-08-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cbennett926 on 2011-08-02
I've seen this file type and some associated with them and have NO idea what they are and what they do. Please educate me!

---

### Post by SavageWolf on 2011-08-02
Tar is an archive format, like zip, you should be able to open them with the archive manager.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-08-02
It's a type of archive. [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tar_(file_format](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tar_(file_format))

---

### Post by EkuquoL on 2011-08-02
That is a tarball. A cabinet file / archive file / zip file. They are compressed and are very basic -- Containing no automatic function or executions .

There is different versions of them -- Still have that same basic functionality too just compress. You can manually open up the tar file .... Extract the contents and do manual make install commands to the file -- That is if you have all the dependencies.

---

### Post by cbennett926 on 2011-08-02
Where do I extract them to? I downloaded a synaptics patch for my touchpad and extracted it to my home folder and it didnt do anything.

---

### Post by EkuquoL on 2011-08-02
The file roller should automatically open those files.

After you extracted them into your home folder... Go into your terminal
type

$ ls
<find the directory your files are in>
--once you find which folder you need to go to--
$ cd <folder name>
---then configure the files---
$ sudo ./configure \ make \ make install

then if you have all the dependencies it should automatically install it

---

### Post by cbennett926 on 2011-08-02
Ok, I did all of that here's what it told me 


cody@cody-HP-Pavilion-dv6-Notebook-PC:~$ ls
Audiobooks             HP-SLED-Commercial-15.2.4-1.i386.rpm  synaptics-0.1.1
clickpad_patch         Insallation instructions              Templates
Desktop                Makefile                              Ubuntu One
Documents              Music                                 Videos
Downloads              Pictures                              VirtualBox VMs
examples.desktop       Podcasts
Firefox_wallpaper.png  Public
cody@cody-HP-Pavilion-dv6-Notebook-PC:~$ cd synaptics-0.1.1
cody@cody-HP-Pavilion-dv6-Notebook-PC:~/synaptics-0.1.1$ sudo ./configure \ make \ make install
[sudo] password for cody: 
configure: error: can only configure for one host and one target at a time
cody@cody-HP-Pavilion-dv6-Notebook-PC:~/synaptics-0.1.1$

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-08-02
First of all, you should be using the Ubuntu repositories 

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories/Ubuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories/Ubuntu)

What is it you are trying to install and why are you not using the repositories ?

Second, I see a .rpm, Ubuntu is a .deb system and you can cause a number of problems installing a rpm unless you know what you are doing.

Third, to compile from source, see:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompilingEasyHowTo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompilingEasyHowTo)

The commands are typically

./configure

make

sudo make install

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-08-02
> **EkuquoL said:**
> That is a tarball. A cabinet file / archive file / zip file. **They are compressed and are very basic** -- Containing no automatic function or executions .


Are you sure that a plain tar is compressed? I've always thought that it was a plain join of files and is not necessarily compressed.
The resulting file is only compressed when using the proper options when creating it (e.g. -z) or piping it through *compress*.

---

### Post by cbennett926 on 2011-08-02
I am trying to install the correct drivers for my touch pad because at the moment I can not configure the touch pad from "Mouse" or "Pointing Devices"

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-08-02
What touch pad is it ?

---

### Post by cbennett926 on 2011-08-03
I believe a PS/2 Synaptics touchpad. When I was using windows 7 I had synaptics touchpad software and driver so I am sure its synaptics but whether or not it is PS/2 is another story. I know Linux doesn't have full support of Synaptics (gestures, edge scrolling) but I don't see a reason why I can't manage it.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-08-03
what is the output of

```
xinput list
```

---

### Post by cbennett926 on 2011-08-03
Code:
```
cody@cody-HP-Pavilion-dv6-Notebook-PC:~$ xinput list
&#9121; Virtual core pointer                        id=2    [master pointer  (3)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Virtual core XTEST pointer                  id=4    [slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; PS/2 Synaptics TouchPad                     id=11    [slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9123; Virtual core keyboard                       id=3    [master keyboard (2)]
    &#8627; Virtual core XTEST keyboard                 id=5    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                                id=6    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Video Bus                                   id=7    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                                id=8    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; 2SF022                                      id=9    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; AT Translated Set 2 keyboard                id=10    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; HP WMI hotkeys                              id=12    [slave  keyboard (3)]

```

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-08-03
It appears the correct drivers are installed, at least your touchpad is recognized.

What problem are you having with it ?

For your reference:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad)

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingTouchpadDetection](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingTouchpadDetection)

---

### Post by cbennett926 on 2011-08-03
Ok, I had some modprobe file that messed up my touchpad, I removed it and can now configure and edit my touchpad. Although do you know if there is anyway to configure the touchpad "region" like where you tap. Cause I can tap the extreme bottom right of my touchpad and it will recognize as it as a right click, is there a way to expand the touch zone?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-08-03
> **cbennett926 said:**
> Ok, I had some modprobe file that messed up my touchpad, I removed it and can now configure and edit my touchpad. Although do you know if there is anyway to configure the touchpad "region" like where you tap. Cause I can tap the extreme bottom right of my touchpad and it will recognize as it as a right click, is there a way to expand the touch zone?

Not sure ...

---

### Post by cbennett926 on 2011-08-03
Haha fair enough, perhaps there's a way to gedit or something

---

