---
title: "Cannot bring up command line"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by newport_j on 2010-05-03
I had to rebuild 8.04 after a hardware failure on Friday. I also have an NVIDIA Geforce 440 with AGP graphics cards which is again working. 

I am unable to bring up a command line, however, it just creates a white screen with no command prompt.

The same happens when I bring Open Office. I can file-close. But, I cannot go to the upper right hand corner and click the screen away.

I am thinking that the outer rims of all opening windows are hidden under the barrier that encompasses Unbuntu desktop and that is why I cannot get to it.

What can I do to correct this error?

Newport_j

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2010-05-03
[Qoute ... I also have an NVIDIA Geforce 440 with AGP graphics cards which is again  working.]

Ok

Is the graphics card working fully ?

can you go into System > Administration > Nvidia X-server Settings

and do a screen shot ..... of it .....

should look similar to this .......

[IMG]http://i43.tinypic.com/2r2tdth.jpg[/IMG]


If not try this ....

sudo nvidia-xconfig

then reboot ..... use this to find the resolutions available ........

xrandr  -q

will list the resolutions that you can set too .........

---

### Post by newport_j on 2010-05-04
I had the command line back yesterday, but on reboot, I lost it all.

My best guess is to reinstall/rebuild Ubuntu 8.04. It will surely give me back my command line.

Can I rebuild without destroying any of the existing program that I have put on my computer at present?

From what I have read, I can do this. I cannot imagine messing up my existing config just because I rebuild Ubuntu 8.04 LTS.

System => Admin => NVIDIA-Settings is gone. But on reboot I get the NVIDIA screen which means I am running the NVIDIA card. 

Newport_j

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2010-05-04
When you boot up do you get the Boot Menu ..... 

as I cannot see you losing that .... you say alls lost ?

If it worked yesterday you can get it back to where it was by replacing the 

xorg.conf

with the backup file which will have been created in this directory

/etc/X11/

xorg.conf.backup

[IMG]http://i44.tinypic.com/ra6xxi.jpg[/IMG]

and that will put you your display back to where it was yesterday ....... check the backup files 

maybe one that is in there is the one that works properly ..... 
look for the resolution that you are trying to achieve in the settings in the xorg.conf file.

This lets you list the contents of the file to screen in console mode ..... Alt + Ctrl + F1 should get a console up

less xorg.conf 

will display whats in the file page by page depending on its size ........ q to exit ....

sudo cp xorg.conf.backup xorg.conf

then reboot .......

If the Nvidia sign comes up then the Driver is loading in ....... you can then set the screen size then using xrandr ..... 

No need to start to reload everything up again ..... if the graphics is the only problem
here .....

( once you have the xorg.conf back and your display working ....  then  you can change the resolution )


Make sure that the Nvidia Settings is installed by doing this ...... 

sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings

____________________________________________________________________

I just read your other threads ..... maybe you are best waiting till you get your graphics card back > ? or do you have it now

---

### Post by newport_j on 2010-05-04
Out of desperation with this I rebooted right before lunch and here is what I did.

When it came up with the boot list I got

2.26.24-27 (generic)
2.26.24-27 (generic) recovery mode

I chose the recovery mode option and guess what it worked. I got a command line again. I am not sure why, but when all fails try something.

Now when I go and reboot and get the screen:

2.26.24-27 (generic)
2.26.24-27 (generic) recovery mode

I chose the top one, the non-recovery mode one. I still got the command line easily again.

Since I installed the Nvidia driver for my GTX 440mx with AGP. I am assuming that I am still using the driver for that card. 

What did I do that worked and where is my System -> Administration -> NVIDIA X-server Settings? I also get no NVIDA screen when I reboot. So what is going on? 

I do not want to look a gift horse in the mouse, everything is fine. But where is NVIDIA in all of this?

Newport_j

---

### Post by newport_j on 2010-05-04
Wehn I ran

sudo nvidia-xconfig

I got the following output:

VALIDATIOn ERROR: Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf
           Device section "Configured Video device" must have a
           Driver line. 

Then it went on to say that is backed up xorg.conf. 

Now my xorg.conf file is:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder57)  Wed Jul  2 12:30:48 PDT 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

So what is wrong. It do not have a Driver line in my xorg.conf file?

What can I do to get Nvidia-Xserver settings back in my Admin list?

Newport_j

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2010-05-05
run this ...... to get the Nvidia Settings

sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings

---

### Post by newport_j on 2010-05-05
Okay here is my situation as of today, May 5, 2010, 10:25. I can force the install of the NVIDIA GTX MX 440 drivers and get an NVIDA on boot up.

However, I do get only white screens and no command line when I try to bring up a command line.

Not too worry. 

I merely reboot and upon the list of what systems to reboot:

2.26.24-27 (generic)
2.26.24-27 (generic) recovery mode

I choose recovery mode and everything is fine. I get no NVIDIA screen on boot up, however on either mode.

I never get the Systems Administration NVIDIA -> Server -> Settings. 

I still on both versions get the same screen resolution.

My guess is that 2.26.24-27 is a relatively new version of Ubuntu 8.04 and NVIDIA has no driver for its old GTX 440 with AGP video card. Hence, I seem to be chasing something that I cannot fix.

What should I do next? When I do not get the NVIDIA screen on boot up, what graphics system/card am I running?    

Newport_j

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2010-05-06
How much Memory does the Graphics Card have .....

What Monitor are you using .... ?

What Screen Resolution do you want to use on it ...... ? 

( reason for these questions wanted to see if you were asking too much of your Graphics Card )

What is the output of 

xrandr -q 

( reason for this wanted to see the available resolutions you have available to you )

This information will help to point us towards a solution .....

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-06
Try this from a command prompt however you can access it:
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf xorg.conf.old
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```
Now reboot.

---

### Post by newport_j on 2010-05-07
I left a message here. My problem has been solved. I used the driver 96.43.05, not 96.43.07 via ENVYNG and everything worked. I have NVIDA Xserver settings and a command line. that is the key. IT IS SOLVED.
 
Newport_j

---

