---
title: "at a complete loss"
date: 2008-11-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tjefferson on 2008-11-25
Help!

I'm running 8.10 and it was smooth sailing until I booted my computer just a while ago. My screen resolution, the one issue I've never had before, is now really screwed up. I've had Ibex since it was released with no issues save a slower shutdown. Now this.

My display is now distorted quite significantly - circles look like american footballs. If I try to reset the resolution with the usual program, "Screen Resolution," it corrects the problem but puts black bars over half of my screen, like I'm watching a widescreen movie on a standard television.

The other accounts - this is the only administrator account - are unaffected. I'd rather not create a new admin account over something like this, but if worst comes to worst... Let me know if you can help or need other information.

---

### Post by diablo75 on 2008-11-25
It sounds like your refresh rate is what needs to be adjusted.  What kind of monitor are you using?

And can you paste the contents of your xorg.conf file?  Open a terminal (applications>accessories>terminal) and type the following:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

It's case-sensitive, so capitalize the X in X11.

---

### Post by tjefferson on 2008-11-25
all right, here's a paste of the window that opened:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
#	Driver		"kbd"
#	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
#	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
#	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
#	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
#	Driver		"synaptics"
#	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
#	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
#	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
#	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
#EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by diablo75 on 2008-11-25
Well short of making edits to that, lets try something a little simpler.  

First, check System>Administation>Update Manager and see if there are any updates you need to download.  Next, check in System>Administration>Hardware Drivers to see if you have any proprietary video drivers that need to be enabled.  If so, enable them.  

Then in terminal (close gedit with the xorg.conf file if you still have it open)... type this:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xorg-xserver
```

Answer all the questions as best as you can, but don't worry about the ones you can't answer.  Often times you can just leave things blank, and press Enter to keep the default.  When it gets to the question about the Kernel Buffer, say No.

Then restart the computer.

---

