---
title: "14.04 - digital camera not mounting since updates"
date: 2014-05-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-05
For some reason, with some update(s) that have come in the last week or 2, my digital camera no longer mounts so I can use it.  In syslog there are a number of entries for each of the times I tried to use it last night until I gave up, went to Windows - it was recognized right away - so I could post some photos I needed to post.  So, after getting those posted, I thought I'd try now to figure out what is going on.  I've seen at least 1 other recent thread on this same problem.

My log always has this error message:

```
May  4 03:24:31 davelaptop mtp-probe: bus: 3, device: 16 was not an MTP device

```

What I've seen on the net is as if ubuntu thinks it supposed to be an Android device.  It's just a "dumb" older Kodak digital camera.  To top it off, my true Android tablets all mount fine.

Anyone have any information on this?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Dane_Jorgensen on 2014-05-05
maybe try reverting the updates and see what broke it?  Was it something that you updated on purpose?

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-06
No special updates - all the pushed updates from Ubuntu.  I don't want to go through reversing them as I have no easy way to know which one might affect another and thereby cause me more problems, and I sure don't want to back them all out.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-09
Well, it's still not mounting even after some updates.  It used to mount fine and this just started in 14.04.  Here's a snippet of syslog when the camera is plugged in and turned on:
```
May  9 21:57:12 davelaptop kernel: [ 1733.117649] usb 3-3: new full-speed USB device number 3 using ohci-pci
May  9 21:57:12 davelaptop kernel: [ 1733.316743] usb 3-3: New USB device found, idVendor=040a, idProduct=05d1
May  9 21:57:12 davelaptop kernel: [ 1733.316760] usb 3-3: New USB device strings: Mfr=1, Product=2, SerialNumber=3
May  9 21:57:12 davelaptop kernel: [ 1733.316769] usb 3-3: Product: KODAK EASYSHARE C182 Digital Camera
May  9 21:57:12 davelaptop kernel: [ 1733.316778] usb 3-3: Manufacturer: Eastman Kodak Company
May  9 21:57:12 davelaptop kernel: [ 1733.316785] usb 3-3: SerialNumber: C182 020552828
May  9 21:57:12 davelaptop mtp-probe: checking bus 3, device 3: "/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:12.0/usb3/3-3"
May  9 21:57:12 davelaptop mtp-probe: bus: 3, device: 3 was not an MTP device
```

Perhaps something got changed in the default udev rules.

---

### Post by JeQhdMD on 2014-05-10
What happens if you remove the media card and insert it into media hub or built in MMC port?   Will the card mount and show up as a removable drive, so you can use file manager to get your photos?

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-10
That works as always - I've never had a problem with recognizing the cards in the reader or USB devices.  Even my external USB drive is mounting ok (I thought it wasn't, but I was incorrect).  It appears, for my case at least, that the camera is not mounting.  Looking in /lib/udev I found some things I don't remember seeing the last time I checked udev (probably about 12.04) - the hwdb.d being one.  Some of these are for gphoto, where my camera was not in either list.  I added it to the list but apparently it's either not in the actual database, or it's not getting that far.  Since it's still reporting it is not a valid mtp device.  I changed 75-probe_mtd.rules to just go to the end so it doesn't do anything - still doesn't mount.

I really think this is something that has changed in udev or what ever the probing for mtd does.  I just don't have a clue at the moment on how to prove it.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-12
Hey, I don't know squat about opening or posting or what ever in launchpad.  Can someone tell me how to report this problem on launchpad as it is obviously a 14.04 problem.

---

### Post by JeQhdMD on 2014-05-13
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gvfs/+bug/1296275](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gvfs/+bug/1296275)

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-13
Thanks for that link.  I added myself to the affected list and also commented on my experiences.

I can't mark this as solved, since it isn't, but I will leave it inactive until more is known.

For those with this same type of problem who are reading this thread:  the link that JeQhdMD posted to launchpad also includes a work around.  You'll need to do some reading in that thread.  Remember it is a work around, not a solution, so it may seem a little awkward having to do it each time you want to access your camera.  I won't duplicate it here because it needs to stay centralized in the bug report thread.

---

