---
title: "Verizon DSL w/Westell 6100 modem - Microsoft email"
date: 2008-11-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by LindaBee on 2008-11-23
Hello All:

I'm trying to switch my microsoft email to thunderbird...no luck, yet.  Right now I'm switching back and forth to microsoft checking every now and then for messages and sending messages.  Please tell me a better way...

---

### Post by greg@localhost on 2008-11-23
Could you be a bit more specific? Are you trying to de an account up on Thunderbird? Are they both currently connecting to the same mailbox?

---

### Post by LindaBee on 2008-11-23
I have Unbuntu preinstalled in this System 76 laptop.  My ISP is verizon and I used microsoft for email, etc.  It was recommended that I use mozilla/thurderbird for emails.  So...i've gone through the 'account settings' several times: name of incoming server - pop.incoming.verizon.net; outgoing.verizon.net,and any configuration in between...no luck.  So now i just log into microsoft and access my emails and minimize it when not in use...  crazy, hugh...

---

### Post by greg@localhost on 2008-11-24
Have you defnatley got the correct login details and server addresses? You should check this with your provider. What error message is generated by Thunderbird?

You should also ensure that you have configured Outlook to 'leave a copy of the messages' on the server for the time being. If I remember correctly, this is located under the 'Advanced' tab, under 'More Settings'.

---

### Post by Tom--d on 2008-11-24
Try Evolution.

---

