---
title: "./home partition"
date: 2011-06-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by crip720 on 2011-06-18
Hi, I have heard that having a separate home partition is useful, and should be setup on install.  I have been using Ubuntu for over a year now, so I guest that I cannot even think of trying this, is this true?, without backing up and reinstalling everything.  Thanks Colin.

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2011-06-18
i never done this myself, but i think the steps are

allocate partition for home

move /home folder to the new partition

edit your /etc/fstab

having a seperate home has it advantages such as data recovery or installing another linux os

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-06-19
Just as idoitprone says:

Details, three versions essentially identical except for copy command used. See if one makes more sense to you.

Uses cp -ax
[http://www.ivankuznetsov.com/2008/04/moving-home-to-its-own-partition.html](http://www.ivankuznetsov.com/2008/04/moving-home-to-its-own-partition.html)
cp without -a and copying as sudo root takes ownership
To move /home uses rsync  
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving)
Uses cpio
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/separatehome](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/separatehome)

Just 5 minutes after I did move /home as I had new drive with lots of room I realized I did not want a separate /home but /data. So I then moved all the folders with data like Music, Documents etc and some hidden folders with data into my /data. I keep only User setting in /home and it is less than 1GB. (that copy of /home has not been deleted yet and still is in a 100GB partition. My 100GB /data now is about 70% full so I will soon have to reorganize.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-06-19
Having a separate /home on the same hard disk is not terribly useful these days. It used to be good for when you wanted to reinstall Ubuntu, because it would mean that /home wouldn't be erased. However, these days, the Ubuntu installer doesn't erase /home even when it's on the same partition as /.

Having /home on a different hard disk, however, is useful. Have / on an SSD and /home on a big HDD, for instance.

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2011-06-19
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Having a separate /home on the same hard disk is not terribly useful these days. It used to be good for when you wanted to reinstall Ubuntu, because it would mean that /home wouldn't be erased. **However, these days, the Ubuntu installer doesn't erase /home even when it's on the same partition as /.**

Having /home on a different hard disk, however, is useful. Have / on an SSD and /home on a big HDD, for instance.

See bold above... how sure are you about this?  And since when exactly is this and what steps are needed to achieve this (only asking because I have never had Ubuntu not completely format a partition when I specify it has to format it...)  Or maybe I am not understanding?  (It won't be the first time)


404

---

### Post by vanadium on 2011-06-19
This indeed will not be true if the installer is going to reformat the drive.

I used to have no separate home on my 80 GB laptop drive. At some point, I decided to move my data to a separate partition in order to avoid havingt o copy them back for each reinstall.

I found that sometimes, I was inadvertently filling my / partition, forgetting that folders such as "Downloads" or others were not on the separate partition. Then I moved my home.

My current recommendation is to have a separate /home. 10 GB is more than sufficient for the root partition.

When upgrading to a new Ubuntu distribution, I prefer a fresh install, i.e., avoid taking over configuration data of an old install. To that aim, I rename my home directory to "move it away" (eg: /home/vanadium -> /home/vanadium_old). After installation, data can be moved to the new /home/vanadium in a few seconds.

I experienced another advantage of a separate home last friday. For the first time in the years I am using linux, I was forced to reinstall. I instructed the installer to reformat the / partition, and use my /home directory without formatting. After the reinstall, my system was largely intact again (email settings, data, wallpaper, etc all preserved) except for a few applications I needed to reinstall.

---

### Post by crip720 on 2011-06-19
Thanks for your ideas.  It will give me info to look into.  Colin.

---

