---
title: "12.04 or 13.10 w/ GeForce 6200 PCI - giving up? 3 days and hit the wall"
date: 2014-01-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by BostonLinux99 on 2014-01-07
Hello everyone,

I'm about to give up on my GeForce 6200 pci video card and just go back to integrated graphics which were ok but not great. It's a dell dimension (yes*) and the bios is set to "auto".
After 30 various attempts and 30 other posts of techniques I just can't apply any drivers or any drivers correctly to get it to work.

On a straight install, the new video card renders out - but the hardware drivers sections doesn't recognize it as having any proprietary drivers available in either 12.04 or 13.10
I read on nvidia they exist, and  many people with issues, some fixing them and some not - but after 3 days I realized maybe trying to force this video card to work isn't fun any more!

On my laptop, everything picked up naturally.  With this machine, not so lucky.  

If anyone has got GeForce 6200 or FX5500 PCI cards running with 12.04 or 13.10 on a desktop machine and are new to this like me, please let me know.
Else, I think maybe there is just something going on that I don't understand.  Everything else I've done in Ubuntu/Xubuntu has been awesome, this not so much.

Thank you very much for reading.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-01-07
Del dimension is a broad category, could you add as to which?

---

### Post by BostonLinux99 on 2014-01-07
Dell Dimension 8110 or B110 - some note it differently.

It's a P4 3ghz 800mhz, 2gb ram, 478 socket

The MB as the A01 bios.
The MB has 3 pci slots.

Thank you!

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-01-07
You might have better luck with some other old nvidia card. I have run a few of different age. Some work reasonably well with the built in nouveau driver as well as with some proprietary driver (but I have to try a few before finding the best driver).

What is the built in graphics? Intel? What model/version number? It might work better with UXA acceleration than what is default in newer Ubuntu systems.

---

### Post by BostonLinux99 on 2014-01-07
intel 82865g graphics - integrated
That runs fine, but I can't figure out if OPENGL is working, and I don't think it is.

So I wanted to try the PCI cards and no dice there.
Sorry for the long thread.  I've just spent 3 nights on this and I have tenacity but I know I don't understand something important - after this many issues.

Overall, on the PCI cards, it doesn't list anything in the drivers section - even nouveau - that's why I keep thinking it's not set up correctly.

Then I go through driver installs, in various ways, and of course botch my install.
I've done this many times now, and

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-01-07
I have an nvidia GeForce GT 430/PCIe/SSE2 card, that works with nouveau as well as the proprietary driver NVIDIA 304.88, than can run OpenGL version 4.2.0

---

### Post by BostonLinux99 on 2014-01-07
Thank you, I'll close this.  I went back over everything and it appears my 6200 card is working with the Nouveau drivers - at least so far. 

Anyone else, new to this who's trying to evaluate the status of their card.

For these older Nvidia cards, the Nouveau driver may be working just fine for most things.  

Install "mesa-utils", and try "glxinfo | grep render" and you'll see the status of your open gl rendering.
glxgears, will show you a frame rate tool with a small opengl image.
lspci will how you grafix card info.

I think this really wasn't working last night, but now it seems it is. i'll close. Thank you for your help!!
I'm not using any nvidia driver but it's looking good right now.

Xubuntu 12.04 1.6.2014

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-01-08
> **BostonLinux99 said:**
> That runs fine, but I can't figure out if OPENGL is working, and I don't think it is.


install mesa-utils and then run glxgears

---

### Post by bobblex on 2014-01-08
I'm running an old Dell 2350 with a 1.8 P4, 1.5G RAM, and a PCI GeForce 6200.  I used to have trouble getting the Nvidia drivers to run.  My BIOS supposedly only supports 1 G RAM, but I used 2 X 1G modules under XP and all worked great.  I found that Linux was a lot touchier about that as I saw a lot of memory conlicts in the syslog files.  I dropped back to 1.5 G and then the Nvidia drivers (304.108) loaded and ran great.  I'm using Lubuntu 13.10, and LXLE 12.4.04 with no problems.  I loaded the Nvidia drivers using the Synaptic Package Manager and that seemed to take care of all of the configuration nits that one would normally need to go through if using the driver straight from Nvidia.

Good luck

---

