---
title: "Mounting issues"
date: 2008-10-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by DarkSaga70 on 2008-10-17
Ok after this last update I am about ready to scrap Linux. I got all my video and sound working again now all of the sudden out of the blue my 300 gig wil not mount. It was fine now it says this " mount: wrong fs type,bad option,bad superblock on/dev/sda 1.   missing code page or helper program or other error. I mean just when you thought this is the distro for me this crap happens. Any help would be appreciated. Thank you.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2008-10-17
Well what format is it? Have you tried manually mounting it? Is this an external drive or an internal drive? Does it have an fstab entry?

---

### Post by DarkSaga70 on 2008-10-17
this drive worked fine before a reboot.....it's EXT 3
Have you tried manually mounting it? If by clicking on it in the menu yes
Is this an external drive or an internal drive? Internal
Does it have an fstab entry? Not sure how to find that out. Its in my menu like it's always been. In the file browser under places.

---

### Post by drowner on 2008-10-17
can you post the ouput of 
> 
sudo fdisk -l (that's a little L)

and 
```

cat /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2008-10-17
Ok Let's try manually mounting and see if that throws errors

```
sudo mkdir /media/workplease
sudo mount /dev/sda1 /media/workplease
```

If that doesn't work might help to see a few things

```
sudo fdisk -l
cat /etc/fstab
mount
```

---

### Post by DarkSaga70 on 2008-10-17
I figured it out....For some reason my new dvd burner was creating the issue. I unplugged it and now the drive is just fine.....So now I need to figure out the issue with the burner...Thanks for the help though.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2008-10-17
edit: I also stumbled on this bug might have something to do with the issue [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5530231&postcount=44](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5530231&postcount=44)

It might have to do with the way your fstab is setup, I'll bet the new cdrom is throwing /dev/sdxx entries off and that is throwing your fstab off.

Would you mind posting the output of those commands with everything hooked up?

```
sudo fdisk -l
cat /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by beaubeau on 2008-10-22
duplicate

---

### Post by beaubeau on 2008-10-22
> **jerome1232 said:**
> edit: I also stumbled on this bug might have something to do with the issue [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5530231&postcount=44](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5530231&postcount=44)

It might have to do with the way your fstab is setup, I'll bet the new cdrom is throwing /dev/sdxx entries off and that is throwing your fstab off.

Would you mind posting the output of those commands with everything hooked up?

```
sudo fdisk -l
cat /etc/fstab
```
jerome1232,

'd love some help with this. I have the same problem. I spanked my computer new and reinstalled ubuntu 8.04 completely. But now not a single external HD will mount. I ran the requested command and came up with this:

sudo fdisk -l
cat /etc/fstab

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=fcdae50c-eb39-4225-b659-8a179628a4e1 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=39bf0c60-ad85-46de-be74-810804ea8fcf none swap sw 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0

obviously i had deleted something important when i did the full reinstall. perhaps those seemingly innocent swap partitions held some important mounting info. I have 3 other drives. All will not mount. The current one in question is FAT32. The others i don't recall. Will have to check gparted.

Any help greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by MST3Kakalina on 2008-10-22
Would also appreciate any help on the issue.  I have an 80 gig Maxtor (FAT32) with all of my stuff on it, which will no longer mount after a full reinstall.

cat /etc/fstab yields:

```
katherine@:/media$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda1
UUID=586deba4-a7a7-4d5d-acd2-d675c40e97df /               ext3    relatime,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda5
UUID=a53091d1-b133-4330-87e4-ef0aa1980745 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

```

and sudo fdisk -l shows:

```
Disk /dev/sda: 120.0 GB, 120034123776 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14593 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x1ea71ea6

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       14030   112695943+  83  Linux
/dev/sda2           14031       14593     4522297+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5           14031       14593     4522266   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sdb: 81.9 GB, 81963515904 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9964 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x885bb6c3

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1        9964    80035798+   c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
```

So the computer realizes it's there, it's just a question of correctly configuring fstab, which alas I know not how to do.

EDIT a little digging around found me this tutorial on making sense of fstab: [http://www.tuxfiles.org/linuxhelp/fstab.html](http://www.tuxfiles.org/linuxhelp/fstab.html).  

And I was able to add my drive to fstab and successfully mount it from the command line.  The only tricky thing was using "sudo vol_id /dev/sdb1" to get the UUID, which I would not have figured out on my own.  But after that, it was all gravy.

---

### Post by beaubeau on 2008-10-24
EDIT a little digging around found me this tutorial on making sense of fstab: [http://www.tuxfiles.org/linuxhelp/fstab.html](http://www.tuxfiles.org/linuxhelp/fstab.html).  



Thanks for the link!  It took me some time to figure out but i was able to get it to work... for now, by using the tutorial.  Really appreciate it.

---

