---
title: "Xubuntu 8.04.4 LTS:  Still able to install apps &amp; do Security Updates after April 201"
date: 2011-07-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by _crash_ on 2011-07-19
On one of my CPUs, I am still running Xubuntu 8.04.4 LTS, (Hardy Heron).  I thought all support ended in April 2011 for all variants of Ubuntu 8.04.4 LTS.  Yet I am still able to install application software and do Security Updates on said CPU.


I installed some application software on:
Mon Jul 11 2011


I have done Security Updates On:
Tue Jul 19 2001
Mon Jul 11 2011
Fri May 6 2011


Don't get me wrong.  I am not trying to "look a gift horse in the mouth."  I am glad that I can still do these things.  I am just wondering why I am able to do this stuff.  So...

1)
How long will I be able to download and install application software off of Ubuntu's servers using Synaptic?

2)
How long will I be able to do Security Updates via Update Manager?

THANKS!

---

### Post by _crash_ on 2011-07-19
I forget to mention this.  I while back I installed [[COLOR="Red"]BackupPC[/COLOR]]("http://backuppc.sourceforge.net/").  I think I remember reading somewhere that BackupPC uses the Apache web server.  (Not totally sure about that though).

Also, the [[COLOR="Red"]BackupPC Introduction page[/COLOR]]("http://backuppc.sourceforge.net/info.html") says this:


> "BackupPC is written in Perl and extracts backup data via SMB using Samba, tar over ssh/rsh/nfs, or rsync. It is robust, reliable, well documented and freely available as Open Source on SourceForge."


So maybe because Apache might be installed, or the packages mentioned in the above quote are installed, is the reason why I am still able to get updates?  Server related packages have 5 years of support.  And all of the stuff I have mentioned in this post are server related packages.  Maybe that is the reason?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-07-19
8.04 server has 5 years of support, that is until April 2013. If the software you install or update falls under the server category, then you have till then, the rest won't be updated.

---

### Post by _crash_ on 2011-07-19
I used Google as best as I could to try to answer my own questions.  The only thing that seemed to be close to what I am asking is this:

[URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1728377&highlight=ubuntu+8.04.4+LTS+support+extended
"][COLOR="Red"]Ubuntu LTS Desktop 3 years and Ubuntu LTS server 5 years question[/COLOR][/URL]


The above thread did help me some.

In Post #2 of the above thread one of the forum members pointed to these 2 pages:

[[COLOR="Red"]Ubuntu Documentation> Community Documentation> ServerGUI[/COLOR]]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerGUI")

[[COLOR="Red"]Ubuntu Documentation> Community Documentation> ServerFaq[/COLOR]]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerFaq")

I read the above 2 pages.  While informative, most of what was said is over my head.

Anyway, just trying to figure things out on my own.  Comments are welcome.

---

### Post by _crash_ on 2011-07-19
> **mikewhatever said:**
> 8.04 server has 5 years of support, that is until April 2013. If the software you install or update falls under the server category, then you have till then, the rest won't be updated.

Mike, thanks for your help.

Yes, I am aware that Ubuntu Server 8.04.4 LTS is supported to April 2013.

> If the software you install or update falls under the server category, then you have till then, the rest won't be updated.

Tell me if I understand you correctly.  For server type software that I have installed on my own, I can continue to get updates on those packages and their dependencies for 5 years?  Like my previous post about BackupPC (maybe) using the Apache web server, and (definitely) using rsync, etc..  But ONLY those packages and their dependencies that are covered in the server category.  Right?

For applications like Firefox, the Xfce GUI, the gedit text editor, the Thunar file manager etc., Security Updates for said software ended in 04/2011.

Do I understand this correctly?

Because I am still able to do Security Updates for what appears to be the Linux kernel.  Here is an excerpt from a Security Update log:


> Commit Log for Mon Jul 11 10:08:42 2011

linux-headers-2.6.24-29 (2.6.24-29.88) to 2.6.24-29.90
linux-headers-2.6.24-29-generic (2.6.24-29.88) to 2.6.24-29.90
linux-image-2.6.24-29-generic (2.6.24-29.88) to 2.6.24-29.90
linux-libc-dev (2.6.24-29.88) to 2.6.24-29.90

---

### Post by _crash_ on 2011-07-19
Sorry about the smiley icons in post # 5.  They are being generated by the forum software.  I tried to suppress them but could not.

---

### Post by Sef on 2011-07-19
> Sorry about the smiley icons in post # 5. They are being generated by the forum software. I tried to suppress them but could not.


I did 8). Next time just tic 'Disable Smilies in Text'. (Scroll down on the 'Reply to Thread' page.)

---

### Post by _crash_ on 2011-07-19
Here is another excerpt from a Security Update log:

> Commit Log for Fri May  6 20:14:18 2011

Upgraded the following packages:
firefox (3.6.16+build1+nobinonly-0ubuntu0.8.04.1) to 3.6.17+build3+nobinonly-0ubuntu0.8.04.1
firefox-3.0 (3.6.16+build1+nobinonly-0ubuntu0.8.04.1) to 3.6.17+build3+nobinonly-0ubuntu0.8.04.1
firefox-branding (3.6.16+build1+nobinonly-0ubuntu0.8.04.1) to 3.6.17+build3+nobinonly-0ubuntu0.8.04.1



What does the "nobinonly" strings in the above package names mean?  Does it mean that updates are available for said packages, but because support has been dropped, the binary files in the above packages were not updated?

Or does it mean something else?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-07-19
Yep, that's pretty much right. Check your version of Firefox, for example, did you get the 3.6.18 version?

> **_crash_ said:**
> ...


What does the "nobinonly" strings in the above package names mean?  Does it mean that updates are available for said packages, but because support has been dropped, the binary files in the above packages were not updated?

Or does it mean something else?

Looks like a naming convention.

---

### Post by _crash_ on 2011-07-19
> **Sef said:**
> I did 8). Next time just tic 'Disable Smilies in Text'. (Scroll down on the 'Reply to Thread' page.)

Sef,

THANKS for nuking those Smilies!!!

> Next time just tic 'Disable Smilies in Text'. (Scroll down on the 'Reply to Thread' page.)

OK, I see it!  

Additional Options> Miscellaneous Options> Disable smilies in text

(I feel like a dope, LOL)!

---

### Post by _crash_ on 2011-07-19
> **mikewhatever said:**
> Yep, that's pretty much right. Check your version of Firefox, for example, did you get the 3.6.18 version?


Nope!  Just took a look:
3.6.17 is what I am running.

Boy am I ever ignorant...

THANKS MIKE!



> Looks like a naming convention.

Mike, thanks again.


OK, well, unless anybody else wants to throw in their 2 cents worth...

I think I will wait a few hours before marking this thread as SOLVED.  Just for laughs.

Mike: I owe you one!  THANKS!

---

