---
title: "11.04 doesnt seem to install most of the packages older versions did?"
date: 2011-05-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Bugsy_malone 666 on 2011-05-13
Ok so I have gone through umpteen versions of Ubuntu and now at 11.04 in the hope I could solve my graphics issue, although not yet! However I am still running in basic graphics mode fine but am having trouble installing stuff.

Previously I downloaded items marked for linux which would use .deb or .run files, I'd double click and off it would go and install with the debian package installer, this doesnt seem to work? I downloaded video card drivers from ATi which are a .run file and have no idea what to run them with, even though I used the software centre and downloaded various installers, the options for programs I can use when I right click doesnt really seemed to have changed.

I also downloaded a version of flash from adobe which is a .so file and dont know what to run that with either, previously I am sure 10.04lts/10.10 I had on here was fine with that sort of stuff.

Any Clues?

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-05-13
For debs install gdebi I find it much easier to use as far as an right click and run, it also addresses any missing dependencies.

There is a deb for the adobe flash. If you just install the restricted extras for your desktop it gets installed automatically.

It is rare that I cannot find a deb version on the web, for just about anything I need.

As well some tar.gz and other downloads are as simple as extraction and clicking a install, or run file.

You have to be creative at times, and ask the forum for help in specific problems, and or find the links that explain installation of specific file types.

Wait that's what your doing.;) Be specific though with actual packages some as I suggest are actually easier then they seem.

---

### Post by astex on 2011-05-13
.run files are usually just shell scripts.  Though I strongly recommend using the debian package manager instead, you can open a terminal:

```
$ cd [directory where script is]
$ ./[script file name]
```

---

### Post by Bugsy_malone 666 on 2011-05-13
According to the ubuntu software centre I have 2 versions of Gdebi installed, doesnt seem to be working on a right click though and the list of programs I get doesnt include it!

The piece of software that I am trying to run is a driver install for my graphics card which is a .run file, I have used it before, but have since reinstalled and am now on 11.04 so now I cant just double click and linux do is business and make it work.

Should I mention I am running a 64bit system? will this make a difference.

The flash playing thing is a .so file and its a test version of 64bit adobe flash player, I am keen to do some testing but need to get it to run first!

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-05-13
> **Bugsy_malone 666 said:**
> According to the ubuntu software centre I have 2 versions of Gdebi installed, doesnt seem to be working on a right click though and the list of programs I get doesnt include it!

The piece of software that I am trying to run is a driver install for my graphics card which is a .run file, I have used it before, but have since reinstalled and am now on 11.04 so now I cant just double click and linux do is business and make it work.

Should I mention I am running a 64bit system? will this make a difference.

The flash playing thing is a .so file and its a test version of 64bit adobe flash player, I am keen to do some testing but need to get it to run first!

I don't use the software center, synaptic will give you dependencies missing and just more information. The software center is good just has some limitations that don't provide what I want.

64 bit flash I have no clue, other then the restricted-extras or the FF add on flash aid for an installation that will work.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-13
> **Bugsy_malone 666 said:**
> Ok so I have gone through umpteen versions of Ubuntu and now at 11.04 in the hope I could solve my graphics issue, although not yet! However I am still running in basic graphics mode fine but am having trouble installing stuff.

Previously I downloaded items marked for linux which would use .deb or .run files, I'd double click and off it would go and install with the debian package installer, this doesnt seem to work? I downloaded video card drivers from ATi which are a .run file and have no idea what to run them with, even though I used the software centre and downloaded various installers, the options for programs I can use when I right click doesnt really seemed to have changed.

I also downloaded a version of flash from adobe which is a .so file and dont know what to run that with either, previously I am sure 10.04lts/10.10 I had on here was fine with that sort of stuff.

Any Clues?

Hi if you go to the forum that says media and video click on it and then on Comprehensive Multimedia & Video Howto and follow the instructions carefully you will install all the packages needed including adobe flash player.This will get dvd play back working,mp3, dvd and cd recording. Hope this helps.):P

---

### Post by Bugsy_malone 666 on 2011-05-14
I so feel like I am banging my head against the wall coz I dont know enough about ubuntu and the names for all the bits to do with how the system works.

Theres certainly nothing more I can install from the update manager, thats got everything, I have installed various deb installer/viewer things from the software centre and I guess I just dont know what else you do? do you use terminal or something to run stuff?

I am not to hot on this! I am really struggling to just get simple stuff running on 11.04 where as 10.10/10.04lts seemed fine and worked ok.

At least my system is more stable from doing a fresh install to 11.04, when I did an upgrade from 10.10 I couldnt install anything extra/upgrade!

Have they changed something about the way everything installs?

---

### Post by PPPilot on 2011-05-14
I agree with the above posts that GDebi or Synaptic are the better way to go with installs. Are you running the Unity desktop? It caused a lot of issues for me until I selected the "Classic Ubuntu" session at log in. With the old Gnome desktop it runs fine.. There seems to be a lot of Unity problems on this forum...

---

### Post by Bugsy_malone 666 on 2011-05-15
> **PPPilot said:**
> I agree with the above posts that GDebi or Synaptic are the better way to go with installs. Are you running the Unity desktop? It caused a lot of issues for me until I selected the "Classic Ubuntu" session at log in. With the old Gnome desktop it runs fine.. There seems to be a lot of Unity problems on this forum...

I take it by Unity, you mean having that weird little side bar that appears as a menu??

Because I am still having issues with my graphics card and cant get it to install the right drivers without knackering everything up, It wont actually run unity desktop and runs the classic style one which looks like it used to.

I have eventually found synaptic package manage ( I think ) by using the file search facility as using the 'help and support button' on the menu got me as far as telling me how to use synaptic in unity and by pressing the 'meta key' which I then had to look up what that was and in the end it turned out to be a "this is how you do it in the unity desktop, even though your not running that" series of instructions, really frustrating! 

Anyway I have found a file in usr/share/menu marked synaptic, which bought up a program and the first thing that happened was it came with a warning/error window with this in:
[I]
W: Duplicate sources.list entry [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) natty/restricted amd64 Packages (/var/lib/apt/lists/archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_natty_restricted_binary-amd64_Packages)
W: Duplicate sources.list entry [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) natty-updates/restricted amd64 Packages (/var/lib/apt/lists/archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_natty-updates_restricted_binary-amd64_Packages)[/I]

I dont know if that is relevant to my problems or not?

I'm going to have a go at installing some stuff through the  synaptic and see what I break lol!

---

### Post by PPPilot on 2011-05-15
Yes, you have it exactly right. That weird menu is Unity. From the Gnome Desktop, if you select the System>Administration pull down menu from the top bar, you should see "Synaptic Package Manager" about 3/4 of the way down in alphabetical order list. Selecting that will get you into Synaptic. Of course you must enter your password.

The errors you are seeing appear to be duplicate entries in your sources.list file. Again go to the System>Administration pull down menu and select "Software Sources". After you enter your password and the Dialogue Box Opens, under the first tab "Ubuntu Software" the first four boxes should be checked. Then go to the "Other Software" tab. Here, look for any duplicate entries and uncheck them. Also while on this tab, make sure any entries that start with SRC are unchecked. These are source code updates that you do not need. Then select the "Updates tab. here the first two boxes should be checked. Under "Automatic Updates", you should set that up however you like. Under "Release upgrade", I would suggest "Normal releases".

By the way, you should be able to use GDebi by selecting, from the top bar, "Applications>System Tools. You should see GDebi Package Installer, again in alphabetical order. 

Hopefully this will cure some of your problems....

---

### Post by Bugsy_malone 666 on 2011-05-15
> **PPPilot said:**
> Yes, you have it exactly right. That weird menu is Unity. From the Gnome Desktop, if you select the System>Administration pull down menu from the top bar, you should see "Synaptic Package Manager" about 3/4 of the way down in alphabetical order list. Selecting that will get you into Synaptic. Of course you must enter your password.

The errors you are seeing appear to be duplicate entries in your sources.list file. Again go to the System>Administration pull down menu and select "Software Sources". After you enter your password and the Dialogue Box Opens, under the first tab "Ubuntu Software" the first four boxes should be checked. Then go to the "Other Software" tab. Here, look for any duplicate entries and uncheck them. Also while on this tab, make sure any entries that start with SRC are unchecked. These are source code updates that you do not need. Then select the "Updates tab. here the first two boxes should be checked. Under "Automatic Updates", you should set that up however you like. Under "Release upgrade", I would suggest "Normal releases".

By the way, you should be able to use GDebi by selecting, from the top bar, "Applications>System Tools. You should see GDebi Package Installer, again in alphabetical order. 

Hopefully this will cure some of your problems....

Ah right ok I see exactly what the problem is now you mention about the software sources, I think I did tick a few too many things! 

As for the Gdebi thing being under applications>system tools, its not all I have there is nepomuk backup? thats it nothing else!

I'm still playing with synaptic, will I have to reboot for any changes to take effect or should it just work?

---

### Post by PPPilot on 2011-05-15
First, I do not think you will have to reboot. The only time I see a reboot is when the kernal is updated but in any case it will tell you if you need to reboot. 

Since GDebi does not show in the menu, you can do a search for GDebi in Synaptic and install it from there if you wish.

---

### Post by Bugsy_malone 666 on 2011-05-17
Well synaptic is showing gdebi is installed, but it certainly isnt in the menus, I also installed heaps of other stuff and I am not convinced its working properly, for example in applications>system tools I have Debian installer now which when I click on it gives the error message:

**Could not Launch Debian Installer**
*Failed to execute child process "su-to-root" (no such file or directory)*

I decided to 'log out' and when looing in you have the choice of ubuntu classic, safe mode or just 'ubuntu' and regardless of what I load it seems to be the same, I found a little utility that lets you configure stuff (CompizConfig Settings Manager) and all the extra bits that you can engage are there mostly unticked, so I tick loads of boxes including 'wobbly windows' then press close, and nothing happens! when I open Compiz again all the boxes are back to being unticked. What would be helpful is if I was actually getting any error messages but I am not getting those either.

I'm sure the system is just broken!

---

