---
title: "10.10 boot problems - no such device error"
date: 2011-02-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ubu nick on 2011-02-02
Hello, 

I'm a complete beginner in the world of Ubuntu (and my general knowledge of computers is pretty limited) but it's all pretty interesting. It's great to see so many people willing to help out when there are problems!

I installed Ubuntu 10.10 a while ago. It was my third time round. The first time I messed up the installation and ended up with boot problems. The second time I tried to separate things completely - Ubuntu on one disk and Windows on the other - hoping that I could choose which hard disk to boot through the boot menu. That didn't really work. 

Now I have Windows XP and Ubuntu 10.10 installed on one 80GB hard disk and I use the other 160 GB hard disk for storing all the data in NTFS so I can access all of it from either OS. When I did the install I was asked to create a partition on the 160 GB hard disk for the boot, which I thought was a bit strange. I have a suspicion that there are partitions all over the place that don't need to be there. 

I did it anyway and it worked for a couple of days. Then it stopped working so I did a bit of online research and decided I needed to swap the master and slave over. I did that and hey, presto! It all worked.

Things went fine for about 3 weeks but now I can't boot at all. 
I get: 

error : no such device: 3e809ada-c472-4782-af9f-c55498f29a30

and then the grub rescue prompt. 

I had a look on some of the forums for some info, and used the LiveCD to download and run bootinfo. I've put the results in an attachment - they looked pretty long to paste straight into the post. 

Any help or suggestions would really help me out. 

Thanks

---

### Post by robsoles on 2011-02-02
Welcome to UF :KS

I had a quick poke through your results.txt file and it looks to me like your Linux partitions are a little out of whack.

If you haven't already done a similar action then boot from the LiveCD, try Ubuntu, and open "System"->"Administration"->"Disk Utility". Select the 80Gb drive and click on each of the Linux partitions and complete the following actions.

Note if the partition is mounted (or will mount) in Places, if mounted, unmount the partition and then click the 'Check Filesystem' button and take note of any messages you get back. 

How does that go?

---

### Post by ubu nick on 2011-02-02
Thanks for the reply and the suggestions. 

From the partitions available only one gave me the option to mount (see screenshot of disk utility)
I was able to mount and unmount. 
I checked the file system. It told me it was clean. 

I have tried to reboot but nothing has changed.

---

### Post by robsoles on 2011-02-02
Where is your ext4 [s]extension[/s] file-system that I am expecting to find your Ubuntu installation in?

What [s]are[/s] is [s]these[/s] this unknown file-system[s]s[/s]? How big was your partition for Ubuntu again?

---

### Post by robsoles on 2011-02-02
Sorry, reconsidering: would you please select the 54Gb 'Unknown' partition and see if you are allowed to click the 'check filesystem' button for it. If so, what does it say?

---

### Post by ubu nick on 2011-02-02
Doesn't look good, eh?

The check file system option is not given. 
I can format it, delete the partition or edit the partition.

---

### Post by rajeev1204 on 2011-02-02
From your bootlog it says grub2 is on /dev/sdb , the second disk.In bios can you check if disk boot order is correct?


YOu could try reinstalling grub which is fairly simple process from the live cd.

sudo grub-install /dev/sdx where x is device name you want to install to.
In case grub complains of no such device, go to places>drives and click it to mount the drive.

Then run the command again and once its done run a sudo update-grub

Reboot.

---

### Post by ubu nick on 2011-02-02
It doesn't seem to matter which way round I set the bios. I've tried both ways. 

If the smaller hard disk (IDE-0) is set 1st in the priority list, the bios reports "ok" when searching for the boot:

IDE-0 ok 
IDE -1 ok 

then I get the error report. 

If I do it the other way round (i.e. set the device priority in bios to boot off IDE-1 first I just get the Ok report for IDE-1 but not for IDE-0

---

### Post by robsoles on 2011-02-02
> **ubu nick said:**
> Doesn't look good, eh?

The check file system option is not given. 
I can format it, delete the partition or edit the partition.

I know of one instance where Windows software (3rd party, not MS) borked a file-system that Windows does not support - I gained the impression that the software (along lines of a disk manager) re-wrote the start of the drive (just a few bytes or so) and I was not able to successfully restore it at the time.

This may or may not help you, I hope it does: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DataRecovery](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DataRecovery)

---

