---
title: "Ubuntu 9.10 does not start GDM, flickerin login window"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pmp on 2009-11-05
I get the flickering login window in ubuntu 9.10. Login in normal mode is not possible. I can not start the 9.10 gdm successfully.
 
I see a message that tells about about firewall program (firestarter) going down when I try to login in the flickering login window.
 
I updated from 9.04 (that was working fine) to 9.10.
 
I can get the cli up but not gui, if I first login to to the failsafe mode (failsafe login does not flicker!).
 
If I try to start gdm in the cli it does not come up but gives following error:
 
ubuntu 9.10 acer_acpi: No or unsupported WMI interface, unable to load.
 
My PC is ACER aspire t135 pc with 250 GB hard disk.
 
I have given the manual upgrade steps in the CLI (that are in ubuntu page) to ensure upgrade is complete. I also have done all the steps in failsafe login menu (correct broken packages, update grub etc). None of above has helped the situation. I had the latest 9.10 packages available 4th October and this was the result.
 
Any advice would be appreciated!

---

### Post by hellblazer on 2009-11-05
I had the flickering screen problem and it turned out to be a NVidia driver issue.
For some reason the driver gets broken during upgrading so what I did to fix:
1 booted with a live cd
2 backed up /etc/X11/xorg.conf on the HD
3 replaced xorg.conf with the one from the live cd
4 reboot in low graphics mode
5 run update to ensure you have all the latest bug fixes
6 go to System > Administration > Hardware Drivers and installed the latest NVidia driver

Hope this helps

---

### Post by Registered User on 2009-11-05
> **hellblazer said:**
> I had the flickering screen problem and it turned out to be a NVidia driver issue.
For some reason the driver gets broken during upgrading so what I did to fix:
1 booted with a live cd
2 backed up /etc/X11/xorg.conf on the HD
3 replaced xorg.conf with the one from the live cd


How do you replace the xorg.conf file? It says "permission denied" if I try to overwrite it.

---

### Post by pmp on 2009-11-05
Thanks for advice!
 
 
I copied the xorg conf from live CD. The file is similar autoconfigured file generated by dexconf. I.e no real values of resolution in the file just text. The old file looked similar. How could I now change to lower resolution?
 
Somehow the behaviour changed in the meantime to less flickering, so that I can login, but still no login GUI come up only cli login. The normal login drops to CLI login instead of GUI that has flickered only little. I still get the same messages at login:
 
acer_acpi: No or unsupported WMI interface, unable to load
 
and I always see *Stopping the Firestarter firewall
 
Only piece of GUI is the ubuntu circle before the system drops to cli login mode.
 
Still after cli login sudo start gdm makes nothing - no gui started.
 
I have run:
 
aptitude update
aptitude -f install
dpkg --configure -a
aptitude dist-upgrade
 
I have **ATI Radeon 9250 **graphics card
 
I did run 
 
sudo apt-get remove --purge xorg-driver-fglrx
and
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg -phigh
 
based on [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=786160](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=786160)
 
This had no effect firstly also because xorg-driver-fglrx did not exist.
 
Same HW was working with Ubuntu 9.04


After some furher investigation from ideas in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8245862](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8245862) 
 
NOW I GOT GUI UP:

What i did at cli was:


sudo Xorg -configure

to generate a completely filled out xorg.conf

and then copied the resulting xorg.conf-new file to 

/etc/X11/xorg.conf

after that I stopped GDM by 

sudo stop gdm 

after that command miracle happened and gdm gui started up automatically!

(I wonder if gdm process was somehow running even if was seeing only CLI?)

---

### Post by danketchpel on 2009-11-05
> **pmp said:**
> I get the flickering login window in ubuntu 9.10. Login in normal mode is not possible. I can not start the 9.10 gdm successfully.
 
I see a message that tells about about firewall program (firestarter) going down when I try to login in the flickering login window.
 
I updated from 9.04 (that was working fine) to 9.10.
 
I can get the cli up but not gui, if I first login to to the failsafe mode (failsafe login does not flicker!).
 


I got the same result!!! A flickering command line login prompt that doesn't work in the upper left corner of the screen.

I just reinstalled 9.04, it works.

I don't think 9.10 is ready for prime time yet.

I'm running a 3D labs graphic card so I must use VESA drivers.

---

### Post by hellblazer on 2009-11-06
> How do you replace the xorg.conf file? It says "permission denied" if I try to overwrite it.

You have to change the permission of the file, sorry I forgot to include that as I did it ages ago. In the /etc/X11 directory type the following command to make the file writable:
```
sudo chmod 777 xorg.conf
```
You'll be able to overwrite the xorg.conf file now

---

### Post by pmp on 2009-11-06
[quote=pmp;8251527]

My Ubuntu 9.10 starts and works nicely now!

The symptom was: Ubuntu 9.10 does not start GDM, flickerin login window

Main fix I think was: Get a working etc/X11/xorg.conf

So a summary of what I think was crucial in what I described in previous mail.

1. Login via fail safe option as it does not flicker and start a cli - in my case I could choose either start the root option or start normal mode options in the failsafe menu - in both cases i had a cli where I could give commands below.

2. Backup your old etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup_2009_11_05

3. Generate real values to your xorg.conf, ie. completely filled out xorg.conf
sudo Xorg -configure

4. Copy the generated new xorg.conf to right location

sudo cp /home/*MY-USER*/xorg.conf.new /etx/X11/xorg.conf

5. Stop gdm if the process is running (I'm not sure if this was a must but in my case GDM GUI came up/system started after stopping gdm step as I was in the normal mode cli)
sudo stop gdm 

6. Start system either through reboot or through going from fail safe menu to normal boot directly

Someone could maybe explain why the symbolic /etx/X11/xorg.conf did not work - or is it not supposed to work. Anyhow I'm now happy Ubuntu9.10 user.:D

---

### Post by sxe4ever on 2009-11-12
So.... I've been having difficulty getting my video card to like Linux software and it hasn't been able to do so yet, so with 9.04 I was dealing with the basic video drivers..... Now that I installed to Linux 9.10 I was originally getting the flickering login screen.  I had some backup xorg.conf files that I made while it was working under 9.04, but when I tried to use them it was giving me the same issue.  Using the Xorg -configure command's xorg.conf I got to a GUI but it doesn't give me anything at the login screen.  After googling pictures of what the login screen is supposed to look like, it appears to be brighter than the posted images, and my cursor is coming in fine, but nothing else is loading..... Any ideas on this one???

[IMG]http://etcomeback.com/Hosting/CIMG0078.jpg[/IMG][IMG]http://etcomeback.com/Hosting/CIMG0079.jpg[/IMG][IMG]http://etcomeback.com/Hosting/CIMG0080.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by Shmalignant on 2009-11-12
> **pmp said:**
> [quote=pmp;8251527]

My Ubuntu 9.10 starts and works nicely now!

The symptom was: Ubuntu 9.10 does not start GDM, flickerin login window

Main fix I think was: Get a working etc/X11/xorg.conf

So a summary of what I think was crucial in what I described in previous mail.

1. Login via fail safe option as it does not flicker and start a cli - in my case I could choose either start the root option or start normal mode options in the failsafe menu - in both cases i had a cli where I could give commands below.

2. Backup your old etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup_2009_11_05

3. Generate real values to your xorg.conf, ie. completely filled out xorg.conf
sudo Xorg -configure

4. Copy the generated new xorg.conf to right location

sudo cp /home/*MY-USER*/xorg.conf.new /etx/X11/xorg.conf

5. Stop gdm if the process is running (I'm not sure if this was a must but in my case GDM GUI came up/system started after stopping gdm step as I was in the normal mode cli)
sudo stop gdm 

6. Start system either through reboot or through going from fail safe menu to normal boot directly

Someone could maybe explain why the symbolic /etx/X11/xorg.conf did not work - or is it not supposed to work. Anyhow I'm now happy Ubuntu9.10 user.:D

Thanks a bunch, worked like a charm!

---

### Post by sxe4ever on 2009-11-13
My computer is still having this issue that I listed above, can anyone assist please????? Thank you!!!!

---

### Post by sxe4ever on 2009-11-14
> **sxe4ever said:**
> My computer is still having this issue that I listed above, can anyone assist please????? Thank you!!!!

So more news on this issue.... If I go to previous installs, I can get it to work fine, in fact the very first previous one (2.6.28-16) does work fine.  Does anyone know how I can roll back to this install and then try to install the newest update afterwards or what about the newest install (2.6.31-14) could be causing this issue??? Please & thank you for any information!!!!

---

### Post by neurophyre on 2009-11-15
Just FYI, the drivers above version 96 do not support a number of older graphics cards, at least according to the package info displayed by 'aptitude' (or whatever).  I have a GeForce 4 card and upon attempting to install 190, and later manually resolve dependency/conflict hell and install 185, I got the flickering login screen problem.  I did 'Xorg -configure' and then tested the server using the command it suggested, and the error was that the GLX extension couldn't be loaded.

If you have an older card, you may need to stay at 96.  :(

---

### Post by sxe4ever on 2009-11-16
I don't believe that my issue is that my video cards are too old as I have two 512MB ATI Mobility Radeon HD 3870 with CrossFireX in my Alienware M17.  I'm still having this issue however, anyone able to assist please????

---

### Post by graydo64 on 2009-11-23
Similar problem for me.  Have been happily using kernel 2.6.31-14 with the 190.42 drivers downloaded from nvidia.  I then installed 2.6.31-15 through Update Manager and rebooted.  At that point GDM did not start and I got the flickering login window.  My resolution was to reboot into 2.6.31-15 recovery mode then drop into the shell.  I then did telinit 3 and re-ran NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-190.42-pkg2.run as root, taking the options to overwrite xorg.conf.  Rebooted as normal and everything now OK again.

Hope I don't have to do this for every kernel update!

AMD Athlon(tm) 64 Processor 3500+
1023MB
Ubuntu 9.10
GeForce 6600 GT/PCI/SSE2

---

### Post by Godspeed you on 2009-12-17
Hello, I have registered just to ask some questions that I hope aren't stupid enough to ignore me completely. I recently just tried to make the switch from XP and I seem to be having the same awful problem with the flickering log in. I know my drivers have been an issue with my computer in the past so I pretty positive that I am facing the same problem as you guys. I have no idea what terms and names to the different screens or where everything is located. So if someone responds could you please put it into the most layman of terms as humanly possible?


EDIT: I reinstalled ubuntu without an Nvidia driver and it works fine. Only problem is the fuzzy, small resolution which I will need a driver for...

EDIT2: Alright I solved it. The cause: Stupidity. 

I ran the hardcopy before I installed Ubuntu 9.10 and saw that the video card driver was to be updated so I downloaded it, THEN i downloaded ubuntu. That was stupid. So to solve this problem I re downloaded ubuntu without downloading the driver, like a normal person, then I updraded EVERYTHING via system>administration>update manager. restarted the computer and then updated the graphics card. I am now a happy 9.10 user.

---

