---
title: "xorg.conf not being seen"
date: 2009-01-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by edurning on 2009-01-24
I just installed Ubuntu 8.10 and can't seen to get my screen resolution of 1280x1024 to work.

I have a GeForce 5600 and installed the nvidia drivers (both the 96 and 173 versions).  Doing this my maximum resolution is 640x480.  

I've tried using dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and that didn't work.  I've tried editing my xorg.conf file but that didn't work either.  Additionally, I put a couple errors in the xorg file and no errors were generated making me think that the xorg.conf file is being skipped during install.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-01-24
After you edited /etc/X11/xorg.conf, did you restart the X server?

<Ctrl><Alt>Backspace

Run **sudo nvidia-xconfig** from a terminal to configure your machine.

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2009-01-24
How did you install the legacy Nvidia drivers?

---

### Post by edurning on 2009-01-24
Tried nvidia-xconfig and nothing changed.

I installed the drivers using the hardware install under system, administration, hardware drivers.

my xorg.conf is below:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:46 UTC 20$

Section "Server"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-1"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5600"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1280x1024 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2009-01-25
It certainly does seem to be something wrong with the xorg.conf file, can you please post the contents of the Xorg.*.log files in the /var/log folder.

---

