---
title: "8.10 vs 9.04"
date: 2009-05-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Viligam on 2009-05-21
I was wondering which one the people thought was better.

I have been reading some of the support tickets (not smart enough to answer questions) but given the number and types of problems involved in 9.04 is it really better to upgrade from 8.10?

The biggest issue for me has to be the ATI video card issue and the small problem that my video card (Radeon X600) is not supported for 3d. :(


So, the question on the table people is which do you think is better?

---

### Post by neopsalmist on 2009-05-21
Strictly personal and only considering aesthetics, I think 9.04 has better looking fonts and splash screens.

---

### Post by MattCBrowne on 2009-05-21
I have to say that I prefer 9.04 for myself.

---

### Post by bhishan on 2009-05-21
I think 9.04 is the way to go.

---

### Post by majamba on 2009-05-21
8.10 because my wiressless works

---

### Post by Chemical Imbalance on 2009-05-21
9.04 has been extremely buggy for me, so much that I migrated to another distro.

It depends on how well it works with your hardware.

It looks nice though.

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2009-05-21
3D is supported in Jauntys open source driver

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-05-22
I never upgraded.  I stuck with 8.10
It serves me perfectly and i have it set the way i want.  I will upgrade when i have to.

---

### Post by TheNosh on 2009-05-22
9.04 is the way to go
-ext4 support
-new notification system
-and did i mention ext4 support? (it really is that much faster in my experience)

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-05-22
> **majamba said:**
> 8.10 because my wiressless works

my wireless worked in 8.10 and still does in 9.04. I like 9.04 because it looks nicer and it's much faster. I think the deal with data loss is mostly "pilot error".

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-05-22
i'd stick with 8.10 for a while , 9.04 is still buggy

---

### Post by Jimmynemo2 on 2009-05-22
I've found 9.04 to be much faster, but only after having done a clean install of it. The problems when doing an upgrade were too numerous and erratic to be doing another upgrade- but comparing a clean install of 8.10 and 9.04, jaunty is much snappier and easier on the eyes.

---

### Post by Viligam on 2009-05-22
> **clhsharky said:**
> 3D is supported in Jauntys open source driver


I am probably incorrect but I thought that only 2d was working for older ATI cards and 3d was more of the "Good Luck" situation

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-05-22
I prefer 9.04.  But I bought a brand new computer to put it on, put in a second drive as my primary (Vista dual boot on the other drive) and I installed 9.04 clean from disk.

You will most likely have trouble with your graphics card, since it is considered legacy in 9.04 (discontinued driver support from ATI).

You may or may not get satisfactory results using the open source driver.  If you plan to stick with 2D, you will probably be OK.  You might get lucky on 3D.

---

### Post by Cresho on 2009-05-22
8.04 performs better and has LTS.  I know this for a fact!

---

### Post by bcschmerker on 2009-05-22
Tough call!  Having upgraded from a third-party mod of 7.10 Gutsy, I'm currently stuck with 8.04-LTS Hardy.  8.10 Intrepid supports some of the hardware I am currently considering retrofitting to my AMD/nVIDIA-equipped Everex, and quite well; 9.04 Jaunty supports some other hardware that missed the Intrepid cutoff date, although some drivers are still buggy.  I have yet to learn what new gear will be supported in 9.10, as 9.1beta2 Karmic is in flux.  What I am currently waiting to upgrade to is 10alpha1 Limber, as new drivers for hardware previously unsupported in the LinUX Kernel (especially snd-emu20k2, which I'll need for the Creative Laboratories X-Fi Titanium Fatal1ty Champion) are slated for Kernel 2.6.31 (unsupported even in Karmic, which is testing with 2.6.29 and scheduled for release October 2009 with 2.6.30).

---

### Post by TheNosh on 2009-05-22
> **Cresho said:**
> 8.04 performs better and has LTS.  I know this for a fact!

has LTS? yup
performs better? surely you jest sir

---

### Post by dastasha on 2009-05-22
> I never upgraded. I stuck with 8.10
 It serves me perfectly and i have it set the way i want. I will upgrade when i have to.

I did upgrade...broke my wireless and my only internet connection. So I did a fresh install...and it still didn't like my USB modem.

So I went back to 8.10 and set it all back up the way I had things;)

They say don't fix what ain't broken

---

### Post by djdarrin91 on 2009-05-22
Well i never really used 8.10, i went from 8.04 to 9.04.but i really like 9.04.Ubuntu is getting better and better:)

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2009-05-22
X server X.Org ATI Radeon display driver 1:6.12.2 is the driver I use in Jaunty 64bit ext4 with Sapphire X1650, and MSI X550 on another desktop. Using kernel 2.6.29.3 stable. glxgears gets 26000, Penguin Racer gets over 100 fps. Nothing outstanding but no freezes or crashes, flash works everywhere, firefox is fast and compiz works. My WiFi card worked right from the begining. To me Jaunty has been the best release yet. That said, I do have a newer desktop with MSI 3650 that I had to install drivers manually.

---

