---
title: "8.04 upgrade from 7.1 problem w/update manager"
date: 2008-05-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by scholzilla on 2008-05-02
Hi, 

According to the web site and a sticky I read:

"Users of Ubuntu 7.10 will be offered an automatic upgrade to 8.04 via
Update Manager. As always, upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu are
entirely free of charge. For further information about upgrading, see

    http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading"

Unfortunately, when I follow those instructions (check updates, install to ensure I'm up to date, then check updates again), I do not receive a message saying that 8.04 is available and a upgrade button. What's up with that? btw, I'm using an amd64 bit architecture if that makes a difference.

Thanks

---

### Post by Nepherte on 2008-05-02
You could download the alternate cd and upgrade your current version with it:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardyUpgrades#head-7311a7de9fdf1ca310c6937460c0a9d33f54279d](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardyUpgrades#head-7311a7de9fdf1ca310c6937460c0a9d33f54279d)

---

### Post by scholzilla on 2008-05-02
Thanks. Unfortunately, even though the integrity of the burned disk is fine, this doesn't work. I still don't get an upgrade dialog. In addition, if I try 
gksu "sh /cdrom/cdromupgrade" nothing happens at all.

---

### Post by rouge568 on 2008-05-03
Try running this command in a terminal:```
sudo update-manager --dist-upgrade
```

---

### Post by scholzilla on 2008-05-03
Thanks for the response. Unfortunately, when I run that command, an upgrade check is run but the result is a message that says that my system is up to date and there are no upgrades available. I should also note that the output of <lsb_release -a> is:

No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 7.10
Release:        7.10
Codename:       gutsy

---

### Post by rouge568 on 2008-05-04
Ok, then try ```
gksudo update-manager -c
or
gksudo update-manager -d
```

If neither of those works, you could download the alternate cd and upgrade from that, or do a clean reinstall (though this should probably be your last option). Also, make sure you have all of your repositories enabled.

---

### Post by scholzilla on 2008-05-05
<gksudo update-manager -d> worked. Thanks a lot for your help!

---

### Post by rouge568 on 2008-05-05
You can always use the thank-you button (the little ribbon on the bottom of posts). :D

---

### Post by scholzilla on 2008-05-06
I was wondering how to do that....I don't see a ribbon at the bottom of the post though. I also can't find anything in my own refrigerator.

---

