---
title: "Cannot start JACK to use Creox c for my guitar"
date: 2009-11-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by boredpcguy on 2009-11-16
[EDIT - UPDATE]  I used the package manager to install linux-rt and dependencies, but I am not given a choice to boot using the realtime kernel - how might I do that? [/EDIT - UPDATE]

Hey everyone, 3-day Ubuntu noob here, loving it so far!

I am currently running Karmic and I have encountered a tiny issue.  I cannot seem to get the mixer to recognize any input levels from my SB Live Platinum's Line2 from the LiveDrive.  I also can't get JACK to start so I can use Creox c.  Below is my comp and the steps I've taken.

Here's my setup (laughs totally welcomed):
(most equipment circa 2001ish)
Asus P4t motherboard with last BIOS produced for it.
P4 1.7gHz and 1 GB of RAMBUS
200GB HDD
52X generic CD-ROM
Plextor Plexwriter 40/12/40x
nVidia geForce2 MX 200 AGP 4x card with 64 big ones
SB Live! Platinum with Live Drive (line2/Mic2 inputs - this is the part I need help with)

I was able to use alsamixer to turn up the levels on the "Line LiveDrive" slider and get sound through my speakers.  Clean guitar is good to go!  It doesn't register any levels in Preferences > Sound though, no matter which input I select, using "Analog Stereo Duplex."  Also tried "Analog Stereo output + Analog Mono input"... no dice.

I installed JACK and Creox c for guitar effects, but when I open Jack control and click start (searched to get this step), I get this in the log:



 p, li { white-space: pre-wrap; }  [COLOR=#999999]14:12:24.280 Startup script terminated with exit status=32512.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#999999]14:12:24.282 JACK is starting...[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#990099]14:12:24.285 /usr/bin/jackd -R -dalsa -dhw:0 -r44100 -p1024 -n2[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#999999]14:12:24.397 JACK was started with PID=7618.[/COLOR]
 no message buffer overruns
 jackd 0.116.1
 Copyright 2001-2005 Paul Davis and others.
 jackd comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
 This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
 under certain conditions; see the file COPYING for details
 JACK compiled with System V SHM support.
 cannot use real-time scheduling (FIFO at priority 10) [for thread -1216829760, from thread -1216829760] (1: Operation not permitted)
 cannot create engine
 [COLOR=#999999]14:12:24.422 JACK was stopped successfully.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#999999]14:12:24.431 Post-shutdown script...[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#990099]14:12:24.432 killall jackd[/COLOR]
 jackd: no process found
 [COLOR=#999999]14:12:24.854 Post-shutdown script terminated with exit status=256.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#ff0000]14:12:26.497 Could not connect to JACK server as client. - Overall operation failed. - Unable to connect to server. Please check the messages window for more info.[/COLOR]



I am stumped.  any ideas?  I have no idea what to search for at this point.  "Operation Not Permitted" is hinting at needing some sort of root command, yes?

Thanks in advance to anyone who can help! :)

---

### Post by nathan726 on 2009-11-16
RT kernel stuff is a bit over my head, but I'll try to help anyway.
Personally, I just use jack without realtime by unchecking the "Realtime" checkbox in setup (on the settings tab, under Parameters).

If the rt kernel option isn't appearing in the boot list, you should be able to add it manually with a bit of effort, but I'll need a bit more info first...
So open a teminal (applications>accessories>terminal) and type:
```
find /boot/*rt
cat /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```And post the results.

---

### Post by boredpcguy on 2009-11-17
Thanks for replying.  I have tried JACK in non-realtime, but it doesn't seem to play well with that front Line2 input.  When I open Creox , start it after starting JACK in said mode, I can adjust the gain and hear something happening, but it is happening to a different input.  The guitar remains clean as a bell with no effects.  I will find an adapter to check the results of other jacks on my sound card.

Here's my find output:
```
boredpcguy@boredbuntu:~$ find /boot/*rt
/boot/abi-2.6.31-9-rt
/boot/config-2.6.31-9-rt
/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-9-rt
/boot/System.map-2.6.31-9-rt
/boot/vmcoreinfo-2.6.31-9-rt
/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-9-rt

```

The realtime kernel is there and chilling, but I don't get a boot menu even with recovery options.  I should also add I know of no hotkeys to bring up the boot menu during boot so that might be the problem itself.

Here's the output for my grub.cfg...

```

boredpcguy@boredbuntu:~$ cat /boot/grub/grub.cfg
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,1)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 7730e19a-0634-4db9-a6df-ac19a59b99c8
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    set quiet=1
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 7730e19a-0634-4db9-a6df-ac19a59b99c8
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=7730e19a-0634-4db9-a6df-ac19a59b99c8 ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 7730e19a-0634-4db9-a6df-ac19a59b99c8
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=7730e19a-0634-4db9-a6df-ac19a59b99c8 ro single 
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-9-rt" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    set quiet=1
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 7730e19a-0634-4db9-a6df-ac19a59b99c8
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-9-rt root=UUID=7730e19a-0634-4db9-a6df-ac19a59b99c8 ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-9-rt
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-9-rt (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 7730e19a-0634-4db9-a6df-ac19a59b99c8
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-9-rt root=UUID=7730e19a-0634-4db9-a6df-ac19a59b99c8 ro single 
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-9-rt
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
if [ ${timeout} != -1 ]; then
  if keystatus; then
    if keystatus --shift; then
      set timeout=-1
    else
      set timeout=0
    fi
  else
    if sleep --interruptible 3 ; then
      set timeout=0
    fi
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

```

I guess the real question is whether or not my noobness is holding me back or if there is something that needs to be switched on.

---

### Post by nathan726 on 2009-11-17
Your grub.cfg has the RT kernel added. So give this a try: if you hold down the Shift key as the computer attempts to boot it should display the GRUB 2 menu.

---

### Post by boredpcguy on 2009-11-18
I was able to boot up using the RT kernel, thanks to that hotkey info!  However, JACK still errors to "operation not permitted" as in the first post.  Looks like I'll just uncheck realtime and try it out that way.

In JACK, does anyone know which port I am supposed to connect to the soundcard, to be able to record from line2?  maybe that'll be my solution to creox.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by nathan726 on 2009-11-18
Try this - open a terminal and run:
```
sudo useradd -G audio yourusername
```That will add you to the "audio" user group, and hopefully let you run jack in real-time.

---

### Post by boredpcguy on 2009-11-18
Thanks again.  I am now able to run JACK in realtime, ended up adding myself to audio.  One more victory! :-)

Now, I seem to be stuck at the next phase, which is getting some effects working.  I tried the line2 input and also my mic input using what audio equip I had lying around that fit.  (yeah, I was using some old headphones as a mic - quite effectively - hahaha)  Unfortunately, nothing is causing any change in audio from either port. I have tried alsa-mixer on mic1, mic2, and line livedrive, but I fail to make a change in the output.  I even searched outside of the forum for a tutorial and found out I was setting up my connections right.  I tried both Creox c and JACK rack.  Nonesuch luck.  I am beginning to believe there is something stupidly easy I'm not doing right.  Is there a different driver out there that supports SB Live Platinums better than EMU10k1?

Here's what I have gathered for info so far:
1.  The software is happy as a clam.  No errors, looks satisfied with the RealTime kernel etc...  I am familiar enough with priorities to know not to mess with it (nice seems scary haha) :-)
2.  I have tried every input in System > Preferences > Sound > Input and made sure they weren't muted, and tried varying levels.
3.  I have tried the proper, and various improper ways to connect the sevices together with playback in JACK.
4.  I have determined the Line2 on my LiveDrive is controlled in AlsaMixer by "Line LiveDrive" and nothing else.
5.  Even the mic input, which works when enabled in AlsaMixer, doesn't get affected in any of the above configurations from points 2 and 3.

This is driving me (more) insane.  I am doing something wrong.  I'd give up on it but I have the same issue with Sound Recorder and using that input to record.


I love open source forums, never had so much good will and help in my life.  I can't wait to get better at this so I can return the favors someday.

---

### Post by nathan726 on 2009-11-18
So that's one problem solved :D
 Now, lets try and figure out why you don't have any audio input... :-k

Open a terminal and run:```
alsamixer -Vcapture
```And take a screenshot of that with <Alt+PrtSc> and post it here.

---

### Post by boredpcguy on 2009-11-19
[FONT=monospace]I will get a screenshot going in a sec, apparently there are a billion controls for alsa and/or my sound card.  I just remembered one important thing...  The only way I was able to get the line2 ever wasa when I was in windows running AudioHQ from Creative, under the recording volume it allowed me to choose a source, and either Line2/Mic2 or "What U Hear" worked with the input.  Others have gotten it working but I guess this card is a real PITA to work with.


EDIT:  I added the screenshot, didn't include the first couple (bass, treb, 3d control) because they are trivial and set appropriately.  The one I have my cursor over is the one that affects the volume of my Line2.

[IMG]http://i650.photobucket.com/albums/uu230/boredpcguy/Screenshot-1.png[/IMG]
[/FONT]

---

### Post by nathan726 on 2009-11-19
A few links:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=810442](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=810442)
[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-hardware-18/soundblaster-emu10k1-cant-record-line-inmicrophone-584538/#post2892116](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-hardware-18/soundblaster-emu10k1-cant-record-line-inmicrophone-584538/#post2892116)
[http://folk.uio.no/haakoh/emu10k1/](http://folk.uio.no/haakoh/emu10k1/)

From [http://alsa.opensrc.org/index.php/Emu10k1](http://alsa.opensrc.org/index.php/Emu10k1):
> In alsamixer, set Capture to something reasonable (I have 53) and *hit space bar* to enable Capture. Then set the volume for the source you want, and hit spacebar for capture on that too. I have AC97 set to zero and AC97 Capture set to 100, not sure if this does anything, but mic/line/cd recording now works for me.[]("http://folk.uio.no/haakoh/emu10k1/")

---

