---
title: "12.04 install hangs, loads perpetually"
date: 2013-01-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gorgor on 2013-01-06
Installing from a CD given out by ubuntu at an event.

last line on screen reads,

*Stopping enable remaining boot-time encrypted block devices     [OK]

and the cursor is set to load.

I've tried numerous times to install, there is no other OS intalled, ive tried 11.10 12.04 and 12.10 and they have all failed, although 11.10 and 12.10 actually installed but booted to a screen of garbled text which i could type into but not read.

All work fine from live CD boot.

Its vital I get this working as soon as possible. any help will be greatly appreciated, this si my first install, ill try and provide any info as needed.

Gonna try an alternate install, seems to help some people.


Solved by alt install, it no longer hangs but now i have the problem of garbled text on boot.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-01-06
What hardware, and is the CD for 32 or 64 bit system?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-01-06
We want to help, but need more information. Are you attempting a WUBI install or do you plan to create partitions dedicated for Ubuntu or would you be able to run Linux inside a virtual machine which would be much less risky, IMHO.

I organize annual InstallFests for my LUG and the last year, we've been using VirtualBox for 90% of the new installations provided the hardware is a C2D (or better) CPU, 4GB ( or more) of RAM and 10G (or more) of disk space available on an existing partition. If your system meets those minimals, then it is much less risky to run any Linux inside a VM, virtual machine, than to repartition or use WUBI. You do not risk making your existing OS unavailable.

Also, before you start, please, please, please create a full, 100% backup that you ABSOLUTELY KNOW you can recover.  It doesn't happen often, but it does happen that an installation performed by someone new can destroy everything on an existing hard disk.

Backup, backup, backup ... please.

I wouldn't worry about that error message.  Are there any others, does the screen go blank, do you see a boot menu, what is the last screen that you see? What hardware - specific models for MB, desktop, LAN card, ... basically, we need to know your hardware to be able to help.  With laptops, it is usually easiest to google with "{insert laptop model} ubuntu install" for tips to getting it installed. 

Since it works on a liveCD, that is a very good sign. THAT is the first thing that everyone should do before installing a new version onto any hardware. Good move.

---

### Post by tlhIngan on 2013-01-06
As you've read, install problems usually get corrected by the alternate installers.
Do post your system technical specs.
:)

---

### Post by gorgor on 2013-01-07
Sorry for the delay, I'm still dealing with relatives visiting for christmas.

Doing a full install (not dual boot) onto an empty computer (former xp). VM is not an option here I'm afraid as it will be the sole OS.

As to backing up, the HD is empty atm.

Release 12.04 (precise) 32-bit
Memory - 1.4 GiB
AMD Sempron(tm) 3000+ (2 GHz)
One 80GB HD

 description: Ethernet interface
       product: nForce2 Ethernet Controller
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 4
       bus info: pci@0000:00:04.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: a1
       serial: 00:11:2f:f2:3e:b7
       size: 100Mbit/s
       capacity: 100Mbit/s
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list ethernet physical mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=forcedeth driverversion=0.64 duplex=full ip=192.168.1.3 latency=0 link=yes maxlatency=20 mingnt=1 multicast=yes port=MII speed=100Mbit/s
       resources: irq:22 memory:fe800000-fe800fff ioport:eff0(size=8)

Hopefully that info might shed some light on the problem. 
Thanks again for the help!

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-01-07
It is worth trying to run the live CD session and install from that as it may help you figure out if any particular boot options are needed, and you do not say if you booted to  the live session or simply went straight to the install option.

Try running with the **nomodeset** option first, which you can do by hitting esc at the first screen you see after booting the CD, then F6 and simply choose nomodeset, to see if it helps.

---

### Post by gorgor on 2013-01-07
Alright, im gonna try that now. Install from live CD session with nomodeset on.

Thanks for the help.

Edit: at what point do i hit esc? Before the purple screen comes up it gives me some kind of terminal, at the purple screen it toggles a log of whats happening?
Am i missing something here?

---

### Post by gorgor on 2013-01-07
No good I'm afraid. Copied files, but once the UI for the install disappeared I got stuck with he loading icon for the cursor and its been like that for 10 mins now.

Edit: Gonna try from an alt CD

---

### Post by gorgor on 2013-01-07
Booted up after install. Black screen with garbled white text that is unreadable, i think its some kind of terminal because there's a prompt to type.

What now?

I'll count this as solved, it doesnt hang on install, now I need to get it working.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-01-07
When you boot the computer, hold shift and you should see the grub menu appear.  With the cursor on the top line for the kernel version that will normally boot by default, press "E" to edit the entry.

On the screen that appears look for the line that contains the kernel version number and towards the end will also have "quiet splash" and before those two words add nomodeset.  Now hit Ctrl+X to boot and with luck you may get your desktop.

If that works you will now need to edit the **/etc/default/grub** file and add nomodeset to the line GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="splash quiet"
or GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash" so it says:-
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="nomodeset quiet splash"

---

