---
title: "11.10, lost internet on Dell C521"
date: 2011-11-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Stadawim on 2011-11-03
Greetings all, new here. Not new to Linux or Unix interfacing, but new to Ubuntu.

I have searched a lot of threads here, i have searched other q&a's elsewhere and i have tried some of the answers i have seen but i do not get the same results so i am going to start my own thread in the hopes of conquering this in one shot (hopefully). Forgive the post/thread for i know it's a dupe - i just want the info and posts in one reference area.

So i put 11.10 on a bare Dell C521 machine. It was bench tested before hand and all hardware checked out. After just having put GDE on it all worked fine. I then put KDE on board as well to have a variety of looks to the o/s. It did work - for awhile. Like 20 minutes or so. I am pretty sure i slipped and did that ca upgrade for i have lost all internet connectability through the network manager. I have the 'no network devices' listed in the network manager icon (but i do still have the icon). I have seen multiple answers to this here and elsewhere and have tried running some of the lines i have seen to regain the internet, but so far no go. I did notice that my libnss3.so is missing from ____ (wherever it is said the primary place for it to be is), but it is still in a couple of other areas. Trouble with that is, it doesn't let me copy and paste it to where it needs to be.

So i'm getting a tid bit frustrated with that and was hoping to get some help in this thread. I'll list whatever needs showing, and install whatever. Could someone just get me going here?

'Preciate the help. Again, sorry about what maybe the umpteenth thread on this.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-11-03
> **Stadawim said:**
> Trouble with that is, it doesn't let me copy and paste it to where it needs to be.


How did you try and copy it? As just an example, I would
```
sudo cp /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/gecko-mediaplayer.so /usr/lib/chromium-browser/plugins
```
are you copying as root?

---

### Post by Majorix on 2011-11-03
> **wolfen69 said:**
> are you copying as root?

I would ask the same question.

---

### Post by Stadawim on 2011-11-03
I did not... I will try that one.


EDIT: That being put, is the thinking that the missing libnss file is the culprit?

---

### Post by Stadawim on 2011-11-03
Not to be too stupid, but is /x86_64-linux-gnu where libnss3.so supposed to go? And is simply copying good enough to correct the issue?



EDIT: Okay scratch that - i see that /x86 is the proper place for it to go. I now did the copy and am seeing nothing new, except that libnss3 is the only file in the /x86 folder. Time to reboot?

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-11-03
> **Stadawim said:**
> Time to reboot?

Sometimes you need to.

---

### Post by Stadawim on 2011-11-03
Dammit. Still showing no network devices. Next?

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-11-03
> **Stadawim said:**
> Dammit. Still showing no network devices. Next?

Please post the output of
```
lspci
```

---

### Post by Stadawim on 2011-11-04
lspci results as follows:

Dimension-C521:~$ lspci
00:00.0 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Host Bridge (rev a2)
00:00.1 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 0 (rev a2)
00:00.2 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 1 (rev a2)
00:00.3 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 5 (rev a2)
00:00.4 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 4 (rev a2)
00:00.5 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Host Bridge (rev a2)
00:00.6 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 3 (rev a2)
00:00.7 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 2 (rev a2)
00:02.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation C51 PCI Express Bridge (rev a1)
00:03.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation C51 PCI Express Bridge (rev a1)
00:04.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation C51 PCI Express Bridge (rev a1)
00:05.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation C51 [GeForce 6150 LE] (rev a2)
00:09.0 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation MCP51 Host Bridge (rev a2)
00:0a.0 ISA bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP51 LPC Bridge (rev a3)
00:0a.1 SMBus: nVidia Corporation MCP51 SMBus (rev a3)
00:0a.2 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation MCP51 Memory Controller 0 (rev a3)
00:0b.0 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP51 USB Controller (rev a3)
00:0b.1 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP51 USB Controller (rev a3)
00:0e.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation MCP51 Serial ATA Controller (rev a1)
00:0f.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation MCP51 Serial ATA Controller (rev a1)
00:10.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP51 PCI Bridge (rev a2)
00:10.1 Audio device: nVidia Corporation MCP51 High Definition Audio (rev a2)
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
04:07.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4401-B0 100Base-TX (rev 02)
04:09.0 Communication controller: Conexant Systems, Inc. HSF 56k Data/Fax Modem

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-11-04
Changed the thread title. The old one did not contain much information.

---

### Post by Stadawim on 2011-11-05
Would also like to add - i'm showing only a local loopback status on the internet/ethernet connections from the ifconfig results. I've seen a thread or two here mention that the ifconfig command results when network manager is running should show an ethernet status when ran.

---

### Post by Stadawim on 2011-11-06
Since this seems to be a well known bug, has there been a bug fix released yet? I suppose i could simply input it from a flash drive if there is.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-11-07
If there has been a bug fix, you will find it by googling within [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu)

---

### Post by Stadawim on 2011-11-07
Okay. So perhaps not. If this is the situation i have the fix didn't take. I was going to ask if perhaps this was a kernel not having my necessary drivers issue, but that doesn't make sense since it worked before. Maybe the trouble was KDE - how can you dump specific KDE drivers in favor of GDE drivers? Or is that even possible?

---

