---
title: "Overheating"
date: 2012-06-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by goonybird on 2012-06-11
Hello.

I thought I was beginning to get the hang of Ubuntu...

I am trying to install Ubutnu 11.10 on an Acer Aspire 3515 laptop which previously had Windows Vista on it.

I ran the live Ubuntu dvd and opted to replace Vista. Unfortunately the machine now switches off after about 10-15 minutes. The research I have done points to the fan not working properly. Many people have found updating the BIOS solves the problem and there are a lot of How-tos explaining the process. Great - and many thanks to those who have posted those items.

My problem is this... Ubuntu has formatted the hard drive and begun installing itself. But the machine has overheated and crashed before installation was finished. I have tried several times but it just won't last long enough.
If flashing the BIOS will solve the problem, how can I do it on a computer that has no operating system?

I would be grateful for any ideas on this, I am going bald trying to sort this one out and I have another Acer to do after this!!

---

### Post by Redblade20XX on 2012-06-11
If your going to update your BIOS, you'll most likely need a Windows installation to actually flash it.  Go check Acers support site for BIOS information.

-Red

---

### Post by loseby on 2012-06-11
Not 100% certain about laptops but with desktops you dont need an o/s to flash the bios. You should be able to put the BIOS upgrade on an USB stick and boot from the USB or something like that. 

Actually I would disconnect the hard drive completely before doing this.

But the best advice is to go to the Acer forums or some other forums that deal with laptops and ask the question there


[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l6GRhsvP-og]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l6GRhsvP-og") shows one way but for a different model. Investigate this  ......  do not try it until you are sure it will work on your model

---

### Post by Senior_Buckethead on 2012-06-11
> 
But the best advice is to go to the Acer forums or some other forums that deal with laptops and ask the question there


I agree. Ive got an acer desktop and in the Bios are settings are for a overheat cutoff temperature, which you can change. But being a laptop, the bios settings could be completely different, even by the same manufacturer.

---

### Post by agillator on 2012-06-11
If you think you have an overheating problem, and it sounds like that may well be true, the first thing to do is to try to correct the problem before you go updating BIOS, etc., etc. Besides, it is easier. So, check the fan vents in the case to make sure they are clear. If so and the problem persists, take it into a repair shop. It may well be something as simple as replacing the thermal grease between the cpu and the heat sink. This is something you can probably do yourself if you are careful, or a repair shop can do in a few minutes. I have fixed a couple of laptops myself that way.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2012-06-12
Howdy,

You are fortunate that it switches off.  A burnt out processor or GPU basically means a new laptop, since it is usually impossible to source a new mother board for a laptop machine.

My best advice is to put the machine on top of a fan/"laptop cooler" and re-install some sort of Windows, then sell it on Ebay and buy a Lenovo.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-06-12
Laptops are very sensitive to overheating -- not much space, and a lot of heat being generated by the CPU and GPU chips.

While I can't dispute that a BIOS update would help the heating issue, it's more likely the case that it will NOT -- when you're running Ubuntu.

The basic problem is most likely that the Linux kernel is not throttling back your CPU when you are not using it much -- causing it to run fast all the time, generating more heat than the laptop can handle.

You can look into installing Jupiter to see if that helps:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1854019]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1854019")

But if that doesn't fix it, then there may not be anything else you can do.  This is a known kernel bug, and while it has been fixed for some Sandy Bridge processors, there's no word on when (or if) it's going to be fixed for others.

---

### Post by Pi-Rat on 2012-06-12
Happened on your post as I am searching for an answer to my problem (laptop fan does not appear to be kicking on, so I'm looking to see what to do if the hardware checks out ok after I'm done checking it). I have a nagging feeling the hardware on mine is fine, but not yet confirmed it. Also, first time dealing with fans under Ubuntu, so looks like I might have a learning experience coming up.

You can go low tech hack to try and finish the install: put laptop on a desk, use the thick bottle caps from soda bottles to lift it, then point a desk fan, box fan, room fan of any sort towards it. It may help keep it cool enough to finish the install.

Sounds and feels dumb to do, I know. Did work for me when I was repairing a friends laptop. The case fan was dead and I had to tweak software settings (under windows) to get it to recognize there really was a new fan inside the case.

---

### Post by goonybird on 2012-06-12
Hello.

Thanks for all your thoughts and ideas. To answer some of your comments:

[LIST]
[*]Most guides that I found on BIOS updates seemed to include Windows, which doesn't help me.
[*]I had already physically cleaned the fan and airways (seriously blocked) but that made no difference.
[*]There is still thermal grease on the cpu but I will try putting some new on.
[*]The fan runs for a few seconds when the machine is switched on so I know it's not dead. I can't feel any airflow after that so I wonder if something is not controlling it properly.
[*]I don't know if updating BIOS will help or not. I searched through a few forums and several people said it fixed it for them. Just thought I'd try it.
[/LIST]
I'm on a learning curve with Ubuntu myself. I have it running fine on a desktop but this is my first attempt with a laptop. I will try a laptop forum as suggested and see what comes up.


I will also try Jupiter. I assume though that I will need to have the OS fully installed to install Jupiter? Could this be done using the live DVD?


I know it sounds daft but I will try the extra cooling to try and get a full install. (Perhaps I should wait for a stiff north wind!!)


A thought just occurred - if this is a known kernel bug, how many Linux distros are affected by it? Are there any that aren't?


Will come back soon with the results.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-06-13
> **goonybird said:**
> Most guides that I found on BIOS updates seemed to include Windows, which doesn't help me. 
Yeah ... this tends to be a major problem.  Some motherboards provide a way to press a key combo and boot into some routine that then allows you to flash the BIOS -- from  CD or from USB.  But this depends on the make and model motherboard.
> [*]I had already physically cleaned the fan and airways (seriously blocked) but that made no difference.It won't -- if the kernel bug is the problem.
> [*]There is still thermal grease on the cpu but I will try putting some new on. Generally, less thermal grease is better than more.  Only a very thin layer is needed.  Changing the grease won't accomplish anything unless the original grease is gone or was low grade.
> [*]The fan runs for a few seconds when the machine is switched on so I know it's not dead. I can't feel any airflow after that so I wonder if something is not controlling it properly. NO - that's how lots of PCs work these days.  The fan then drops to a low speed, so much so that you often can't hear it or feel any airflow.
> [*]I don't know if updating BIOS will help or not. I searched through a few forums and several people said it fixed it for them. Just thought I'd try it. Which, if you don't know what you're doing, or do it wrong -- will turn your PC into an electric "brick".  It's generally a good ideal to NOT flash the BIOS unless it's absolutely needed.
> I'm on a learning curve with Ubuntu myself. I have it running fine on a desktop but this is my first attempt with a laptop. I will try a laptop forum as suggested and see what comes up.Laptops are different because they have so much specialized hardware (for which, there are often NO Linux drivers) and they have no space for add-on cards.
> I will also try Jupiter. I assume though that I will need to have the OS fully installed to install Jupiter? Could this be done using the live DVD?Don't know about using Live mode to do this because it's NOT persistent.
> A thought just occurred - if this is a known kernel bug, how many Linux distros are affected by it? Are there any that aren't?
Every Linux distro that uses the kernel versions affected by the bug.  Supposedly, the 12.04 Ubuntu versions have an upgraded kernel version that was "fixed" for some Sandy Bridge processors, but there's no info about other processors.

---

### Post by goonybird on 2012-07-04
Hello. Back again. ):P

I'm sorry to have been away so long, I've been quite ill for a couple of weeks or so. Something I have to live with I'm afraid.

I managed to get an OS back on the laptop and tried the live CD with version 11.10 on it. The same problem. 
I also bought Ubuntu User with Precise Pangolin on it and had no problem running from live CD. Can't work that one out?

Installed Precise (using the hairdrier method). Running Precise caused overheating. I installed 'Jupiter' to throttle-back the CPU and that helped, but fan still not working.

Tried installing 'Acer fan-control' together with 'mempat' and editing 'rc.local'. That didn't work either.

In the end I temporarily installed XP, updated the BIOS to the latest version, re-installed Precise Pangolin ----- and everything is hunky-dory!!! It's working fine.

I just don't get it. All the things I tried did work for someone so who can really understand computers?

Anyway, I really appreciate your thoughts and suggestions and I am sorry to be so long in getting back.

---

