---
title: "10.04 Flash Plugin sudden death in Firefox"
date: 2011-03-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Viman on 2011-03-31
Hello all,
I have switched from windows to Ubuntu a good 2 months ago, not sure whether I am a really absolutely beginner...
I finally decided to join ubuntuforums.org 10min ago after searching some answers with no success. Currently my Ubuntu 10.04 is installed on an Eee PC 900HD (probably it doesn't matter the specs...)

I have several times wiped out the HDD and installed fresh distributions without dual booting, looking for the distro that would suit me best. However, I always end up returning to Ubuntu. With that said, I presume I have **reinstalled Ubuntu at least six times, every single time having restored the OS to a flawless state. **(desktop, drivers, compiz, flash, java etc)

Last week, however, I reinstalled Ubuntu and noticed that flash wasn't working on good ole firefox (Not to worry, as you have to install it later anyway). But here is the change: turns out that even after installation (procedures followed through the wizard) flash wouldn't get to work. 

==> When loading a page such as youtube, instead of telling me that I need to install flash player, the whole page loads standardly but instead of the video, there's a black rectangle covering the space it's supposed to occupy.

==>When right-clicking on this black space, the menus shown are the same as clicking in empty webpage space.

==> Flash ads are loaded as blank (white) space. 

==> Javascript (google instant and such) appears to be fine.

==> Upgrade to FF4 did not change any of the above.

Could I have some conflicting plugins installed?
Sorry for the long post. I look forward to hearing from this great forum!

V

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-03-31
Uninstall any flash you may have, (uninstall gnash also if you have it) and go to [http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/](http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/) and download the tar.gz flash file. Extract it and put the resulting **libflashplayer.so** file into ~/.mozilla/plugins (plugins folder needs to be created) Restart firefox.

Btw, do Ctrl-H in your home folder to see your hidden folders such as .mozilla

---

### Post by TenPlus1 on 2011-03-31
or you could go into Synaptic Package Manager and do a quick search for 'flash' then install the Flashplayer-installer which will download the latest flash and install the file for you...

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-03-31
> **TenPlus1 said:**
> or you could go into Synaptic Package Manager and do a quick search for 'flash' then install the Flashplayer-installer which will download the latest flash and install the file for you...

Op already tried this, but did not work. Hence my alternative suggestion.

---

