---
title: "[SOLVED] Pidgin strange insults"
date: 2008-08-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Gonz_91 on 2008-08-31
Hi everyone!

I'm starting this thread because I've just experienced the strangest thing I ever saw on Ubuntu.


Here's the thing: while chatting to a friend of mine through Pidgin, he says "dumb". I found this strange, since we were speaking in portuguese, our native language, and none of our private jokes include this word. (yet)

So, even stranger, I tell him he said that, and he replies stating that I said it. We exchanged screenshots and, in fact, on my screen he said it, and on his it was me.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by lisati on 2008-08-31
It could be that there's some spam-bot out there that's somehow jumping into your conversations. I regularly get spam IM through Gaim/Pidgin, and the odd interaction I've had suggests that it's generated by a bot.

---

### Post by adobrakic on 2008-08-31
you got h4x0r3d?

---

### Post by pyromanic123boom on 2008-08-31
sounds like you got jacked up through an oscar server...oho or maybe it's his idea of a funny joke. new screen name?

---

### Post by tommynz1975 on 2008-08-31
> **adobrakic said:**
> you got h4x0r3d?
say again please, what is this.. :}

The funnyest (now) thing was, I went onto the #ubuntu channel using Gaim 
and afterwords when talking on msn via gaim. Half my keys didnt work.
I'd type and only a few keys would work.

A while back I noticed a thread about protecting your self while on IRC.
could some one please who is upskilled on this, make a comment and sticky it.

---

### Post by Gonz_91 on 2008-09-01
Thank you all for your responses! :)


> **adobrakic said:**
> you got h4x0r3d?

What's that? Haxored? Hacked?
I hope not!


I'm starting to think maybe it's not a bad idea to get a firewall up and running over here. What do you think?

---

### Post by erudite on 2008-09-01
Yes he means you got hacked.

@Gnoz...there is a firewall built in to ubuntu.  Messages are sent in plain text in msn...you can get a add-on for pidgin that encrypts your converstions so that won't happen but only if your both on ubuntu.

```
sudo apt-get install pidgin-otr
```

---

### Post by Gonz_91 on 2008-09-01
I've enabled ufw, for now.
Only discovered its existence  after some googlin' xD

Anyway, any ideas in making networking safer, i.e., in avoiding this kind of problems? Will the firewall do the trick?

---

### Post by Gonz_91 on 2008-09-01
> **erudite said:**
> Yes he means you got hacked.

@Gnoz...there is a firewall built in to ubuntu.  Messages are sent in plain text in msn...you can get a add-on for pidgin that encrypts your converstions so that won't happen but only if your both on ubuntu.

```
sudo apt-get install pidgin-otr
```

No, very few people with which I intercat are using ubuntu. Here on Portugal people tend to stick with Windoze...

But thanks for the add-on :)

---

### Post by erudite on 2008-09-01
Made a slight error there...what i meant to say is only if your both using pidgin.  Not ubuntu.

:-)

---

### Post by Gonz_91 on 2008-09-01
We're not both using pidgin, anyway... :)

---

### Post by Gonz_91 on 2008-09-01
I've set up Firestarter, and so now I've got another doubt.
Will the firewall be active on system startup? I mean, do I have to initiate Firestarter in order to be protected, or do I use it only for configuring and creating rules?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2008-09-01
It's not:

:dumb:

is it? Because that's the code to create a particular similie that probably isn't installed into Pidgin.

---

### Post by Gonz_91 on 2008-09-01
No, it's just "dumb", and "dummy", without the quotes.

---

### Post by Gonz_91 on 2008-09-02
Well, I think the firewall did the trick.

---

### Post by k3lt01 on 2008-09-02
> **Gonz_91 said:**
> Well, I think the firewall did the trick.Unless you put in rules stopping certain traffic from getting your computer the firewall has done nothing. Ubuntu has a firewall working anyway firestarter is merely a GUI for it.

---

### Post by erudite on 2008-09-02
k3lt01 is right.

Whatever was doing it might just have stopped.  Don't be surprised if you get the same problem again.

---

