---
title: "13.10, no sound in speakers but headphones work fine."
date: 2014-01-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by karl.umea on 2014-01-05
I am a complete beginner and have installed Ubuntu 13.10 on my Alienware m14xR2 recently. Initally the sound worked great in via the speakers but not via headphones. I did a quick search and installed ALSA-mixer wich solved that problem. That was yesterday. When i boot up this morning I dont get any sound from the speakers but if i plug in my headphones the sound works fine. 

I tried the fix that was posted in this link: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/390835/sound-from-headphones-but-not-from-speakers-in-alienware-14](http://askubuntu.com/questions/390835/sound-from-headphones-but-not-from-speakers-in-alienware-14)

But the unfortunately problem remains. I had a look around in the ALSA-mixer as well as the regular sound-settings but found nothing muted or different from what i remember previously. Did a search this morning but didnt really get any new ideas that didnt seem way over my head so decided to post a thread.

Any help would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by PopsTheSailor on 2014-01-05
Are you installed on a laptop? If you are, this is going to sound crazy but has worked for me twice now. Boot up and log in. Then with the everything running, close your laptop screen and open it back up. I found this suggestion in a thread in the forums somewhere and I tried it and it worked. If that doesn't fix it, I don't have a clue.

---

### Post by karl.umea on 2014-01-06
Thanks for the tip. Never got around to try it since when I booted up this morning the comp just booted to the wallpaper with nothing else on the screen a couple of times. I don't know what's going on but I ended up uninstalling it. Might give it a new try after dinner. We can consider this thread pretty much closed for the moment.

---

