---
title: "11.10 really slow"
date: 2011-12-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cheatos on 2011-12-07
Hi,

I'd bet there has already been a million of articles about this topic, but I couldn't find any helpful advice via the search, so I'm starting a new post...

What I have done is completely installing 11.10 and after the first reboot the computer would start really slow in comparism with 11.04.
Still this wasn't my main problem, it was the slow shutdown process what I admired after the change from Windows to ubuntu 11.04.
I have like 2 or 3 seconds to wait at the moment until ubuntu is shut down, but with 11.10 it was about 10seconds or more. (havent stopped the time) Even with lubuntu or xubuntu 11.10 (dont know which one I tried)  the shutdown process was still that slow.

Is it the OS which takes so much longer to shutdown, or is it the fact that some of my drivers aren't correctly supported so the system needs longer to terminate the running processes?

Thanks for your help

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-12-07
There is a known bug that causes a long delay before loggin out or shutting down.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-2d/+bug/812104](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-2d/+bug/812104)

As for drives, it's really hard to tell. After all, they are your drivers.

---

### Post by cheatos on 2011-12-07
Hi,

thanks for the link, but I don't think that this causes the problem, as if I use 11.04 I don't have any troubles shutting down and as far as I understood in the link the trouble also appeares if 11.10 is used with 2d shell (well I don't use the 2d-shell maybe this explains it) but I also didn't do anything about the configs of my 11.10.

It's already just after I had 11.10 installed. And as far as I remember it wasn't a long error code, it was just the system not shutting down and the five red dots running along the screen...

---

### Post by cheatos on 2011-12-09
bump

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-12-09
Ubuntu 11.10 is known to start up and shut down slowly. This should hopefully be fixed in 12.04, due for release in April next year.

---

### Post by cheatos on 2011-12-10
ok thank you, just wasn't sure, if it's my system that has a specific bug, or if it's normal...
I also hope they'll change that for 12.04, as I have switched to ubuntu because of the high speed of the system.

---

### Post by techvish81 on 2011-12-10
if u dont want to wait , u can try xubuntu, lubuntu etc..
they are really snappier compared to ubuntu in startup and shutdown.

---

### Post by cheatos on 2011-12-11
thank you, I'll mark this as solved.
I still think about trying one of the other distros, but first I'll wait for 12.04 and then decide wether to change or not...

---

