---
title: "12.10 new full install - cannot see panels"
date: 2012-12-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pilgrim64 on 2012-12-26
Hello, I searched to to try and figure this out before starting this thread, but no luck. I have an Acer Aspire 5100 AMD 64x2 2GB DDR 160GB HDD and ATI Radeon Xpress 1100 with Vista.
I loaded Ubuntu 12.10 next to Vista to try it out from a DVD. The panels showed up on the display as I expected. But it was pretty sluggish and slow. But I liked it enough to get rid of Vista.
I then installed it as my only OS thinking it would go faster.
But now I cannot see anything except the background. I have the aility to change the background pictures. And if I press alt+tab I can see "show desktop" and "firefox" buttons. By the way, I am on the Acer in question writing this thread. 
Is there a way to get desktop to show up with all the panels and buttons, or should I just reinstall it again? 
Thank you very much!

---

### Post by coldcritter64 on 2012-12-26
> **pilgrim64 said:**
> ... I have the aility to change the background pictures. And if I press alt+tab I can see "show desktop" and "firefox" buttons. By the way, I am on the Acer in question writing this thread. 
Is there a way to get desktop to show up with all the panels and buttons, or should I just reinstall it again? 
Thank you very much!
Try using alt + F2 on your keyboard, in the command box try the command ```
compiz --replace
```Unity is a compiz plugin, it may help call up the top panel / side launcher.

---

### Post by ckrescho on 2012-12-26
I had no luck with Ubuntu 12.10 on my desktop. My laptop ran it okay, although I switched to Kubuntu 12.10.

---

