---
title: "9.10 Network Manager deleted :("
date: 2009-12-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dunbrokin on 2009-12-21
While trying to restore my NM applet, I accidentally deleted NM completely....I have tried various suggestions from the forum but none seem to work....I am without my internet connection......HELP!!

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2009-12-21
...hope you get something from this one :
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=878000](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=878000)

---

### Post by dunbrokin on 2009-12-21
Thanks....tried this...I have no internet connection which is the current problem.

---

### Post by clive littlewood on 2009-12-21
Hi

Try installing Wicd network manager from the repos.

I prefer this app over network manager anyway.

Hope this helps

Clive

---

### Post by dunbrokin on 2009-12-21
Believe me, I would love to....but I cannot get any internet access on that PC...nada....I tried starting with an older kernel....but no luck also..I am using a friends PC to write this!!

---

### Post by nush on 2009-12-21
hi
not sure about this
but have you clicked add to panel and selected notification area
nush

---

### Post by dunbrokin on 2009-12-21
Yes, thanks ...the problem is that I cannot connect to the internet.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2009-12-21
I believe on one install I removed and had to go to bottom task bar and right click
and add to panel and it was in there like notification area I believe. I put it on bottom
task bar until I figured it out. Hope it works for you. I did not take notes on that. But I
know it put the 3 dots and the icons behind it.
  Anyway around it I just looked and it is in startup applications so check box there if
it is not checked anymore.

---

### Post by CaptainMark on 2009-12-21
if you have the 9.10 live cd you can insert and take the packages from that rather than going online, go to admin>software sources and it should give you the option of using a cd, then go back a post and try again

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-12-21
If you have the ubuntu CD, that can be used as a repo, right?

---

### Post by dunbrokin on 2009-12-21
Thanks...I seem to have reinstalled it...but it keeps losing the connection and it runs SOOOO SLOWWWLY compared to yesterday.

---

### Post by CaptainMark on 2009-12-21
some packages could have been lost somehow, try running a live session from the cd, see if you get better speeds

---

