---
title: "8.10 + Vista Home Basic: access &lt;--&gt; files?"
date: 2009-02-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by walterius on 2009-02-11
Once upon a time, a year or so back, I had Ubuntu <--> Windows 2000 set up so Ubuntu (6.x?) could read/write Win 2000 FAT32 files. Today I want to do at least the same thing (preferably both ways) with 8.10 and Vista Home Basic NTFS files.

How do I do this?

Many thanks. :)

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2009-02-11
It is a standard feature now (8.10). You'll have to install software for Windows to read ext3 drives (soon to be ext4) if you want to do it both ways.

---

### Post by walterius on 2009-02-13
I don't see my Vista C: drive in Ubuntu 8.10. What's wrong?

Walterius :confused:

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2009-02-13
> **walterius said:**
> I don't see my Vista C: drive in Ubuntu 8.10. What's wrong?

Walterius :confused:

you have your eyes closed?.. really more info is needed.

```
 nano /etc/fstab
```

you might need to install ntfs-config

```
sudo apt-get install ntfs-config
```

and if that doesn't work, you might need

```
sudo apt-get install ntfs-3g
```

good-luck..

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-02-14
Unless you have a Vista DVD, it's a BAD idea allowing Ubuntu to read/write access to the Vista partition.  It's not unusual to get data corruption doing that, and without a Vista DVD, you will have major problems fixing that because you probably won't be able to boot into Vista.

It's a better idea to setup a shared NTFS partition to hold the data files you want both OSs to use.  That way, if the partition gets corrupted, you can boot into Vista and run a chkdsk -- without risking damage to the Vista OS partition.  Ubuntu can use the ntfs-3g package to read/write the data files in an NTFS partition.

---

### Post by Embryonic on 2009-02-15
(Deleted by User)

---

### Post by walterius on 2009-02-15
Thanks to pastalavista and mark phelps. I am studying and trying your recommendations.

---

