---
title: "10.04 or 11.04, old Dell inspiron 2650"
date: 2011-06-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-06-28
Picked up an old Dell Inspiron 2650 real cheap.  I put the max memory you can add (256mb, giving a total of 512mb).  Ubuntu runs off the LiveCD just fine, but if I install it, it acts sort of screwy when it boots (seems to take a LONG time to get to the Ubuntu logo).  When it gets to the logon screen, the touchpad  and keyboard do not work.  I tried a USB mouse with the same result.  I don't understand how something as simple as the keyboard and touchpad don't work, so I assume something else is going on which causes the problem.  In searching the net I haven't found anything that describes this problem.  I installed Windows just to test, and the keyboard and touchpad work fine there.  So, they both work in Windows, in Ubuntu when on a LiveCD, but not from an Ubuntu installation.  I'm stumped.

Anyone out there have any ideas?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by beew on 2011-06-28
It has an old Nvidia graphic card, that would explain the screwy behaviour. You need to install the proprietary Nvidia driver for it to work properly. The nouveau open drivers work for newer cards but probably not one that old. I have a Dell Inspiron 8500 and and have the same problems until the I installed the Nvidia driver (nouveau 3D doesn't work on the card) 

I would go with 10.04 because I think there is still some problems with the legacy Nvidia drivers in 11.04 (Nvidia-96 most likely). I would like to hear about an update as well because I am not sure whether to install xubuntu 11.04 or 10.10 on my Dell inspiron 8500 ( I have installed Ubuntu 10.10 before but it was kind of sluggish and I think xubuntu would perform better on a weak machine with only 512 mb of ram. When I installed 10.10 there was no support for the Nvidia-96 driver so I had to downgrade xorg to the 10.04 version. Support came a few months after I have done that)

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-06-30
Sorry so late getting back - been busy.  It appears that the PC is locked up at that point, so what would I do to install the recommended driver - do I need to use the command line somehow?

Thanks!

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-06-30
On an older dell with only 512 memory I would use 10.04 LTS. It will give you the longer support period and better support for nvidia cards.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-06-30
About 2 hours ago I tried the 10.04 install from LiveCD - this time it seems to lock up right at the first screen as the mouse and keyboard do nothing and I have to power-off to reset the PC.  I have just downloaded and installed OpenSuse and it works fine, although I have to figure out how to get my wireless working.

I would prefer to use Ubuntu like my other PC's, but have no idea what to do.  I even tried the 10.10 alternate CD with no luck and same results.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-07-03
Okay, got this figured out thanks to some long time searching on the net.  It turns out not to be a video driver problem at all, but is all due to the 2650 only providing partial power management.

I used the 10.10 alternate CD and successfully install 10.10 on the 2650 but with 512mb of memory (I bought a used 256mb stick to put in the only slot - tried 512 but it won't work - the max is 256mb on the stick).  Combine the 256mb stick with the built-in memory and you get the max for the 2650 - 512mb.  So that helped a lot.

But I was still having problems with the mouse and keyboard not working.  I tried some of the different VGA= options in the boot, but the closest to anything working was 722 - the keyboard worked but not the mouse.

All the searching on the net payed off when I found that all I needed to do was add acpi=off to the boot line - everything works fine then.

I know the built-in graphics on the laptop are terrible, so I can't run Unity, but I was hoping I could install 11.04 anyway and just use Gnome as the desktop.  Well, the LiveCD hangs before I even get any screens beyond the very initial screen with the little symbols way on the bottom.  Might play with that later, but for now it at least works with ubuntu and I don't have to use opensuse.

BTW - I bought one of those tiny USB wireless N adapters off Ebay for $6.95 with free shipping, thinking yeah it might work in Windows but good luck with Linux.  It turns out it uses rtl8192cu.  While I couldn't figure out how to get a native driver, I just used the Windows driver files via ndisgtk - so simple and it works great!

---

### Post by romano007666 on 2011-07-12
Hi there,
 
Thanks for the tip on the acpi=off, it let me start the LiveCD version of 11.04 on my Inspiron 2650 with 400Mb of RAM.
 
FYI, I also experience the OS freezing: I very much doubt the problem is just related to keyboard and mouse not being usable as I can't even get the light for Caps Lock or Verr Num to work when the freeze occurs, which potentially indicates a more serious problem (the keyboard has one of the highest priority at computer level for interrputs if I'm not mistaken). 
I've only tested it twice so far, but both time I was able to use the system for a few minutes before a complete hang of keyboard and pad (starting a terminal, task monitor and one tab in firefox should be ok) and I ended up powering the machine down after several minutes.
 
So it looks like a proper hang of 11.04 on this model.
 
I won't go for the full install at that point and will try the LiveCD of Ubuntu 10.04 recommended above but it seems 10.x versions experience the same problem.
 
Hope this helps.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-07-12
Using 10.x I had no problem as long as the acpi=off was present.  However, I couldn't get 11.04 to run even with acpi=off.  I don't know if it's a driver problem (I tried vga=722 on boot but it didn't like it) or what.  I have a little more memory than you (512mb - 256 on board + a 256 stick in the user accessable slot - the max this laptop allows).  You may want to take the service tag number from the bottom of the laptop and go to Dell support and enter the service tag.  It will come up with several options, and you may want to check and see if yours has the same video as mine - it may be a different one and therefore may require something else at boot.

---

### Post by schulwitz on 2012-06-24
I have 12.04 installed on an Inspiron 2650 with 512 mb ram!  No problems at all with the LiveCD or installation thanks to your "acpi=off" install tip.

One problem though, the computer can't power off via shut down and the battery status meters do not work.

To solve this problem, use this solution:

Edit your Grub 2 linux boot script from terminal:
> sudo gedit /etc/grub.d/10_linux

Find the line that reads:
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="$GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT"
```
and make it
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="$GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT pci=noacpi"
```

Save changes and exit.
Then update your grub.cfg file by typing:
> sudo update-grub2
then
> sudo reboot

Setting "pci=noacpi" should work for the Inspiron 2650, but if it didn't, try the other ACPI boot options specified at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingACPI](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingACPI).

---

### Post by uRock on 2012-06-25
Very Old Thread

Closed

---

