---
title: ".bin .deb . rpm YUM ??"
date: 2010-12-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mayt on 2010-12-06
How do i know what one I'm supposed to download? i see the question of what to download a lot. How am i supposed to know which to download? i have ubuntu 10.4   this what I'm trying to download [http://get.adobe.com/air/](http://get.adobe.com/air/)

---

### Post by lbarnes on 2010-12-06
.deb

---

### Post by mayt on 2010-12-06
> **lbarnes said:**
> .deb
  is it always going to be .deb whenever i download something?

---

### Post by cdnmike on 2010-12-06
Yup! :) Almost always .deb files.  YUM = RedHat/Fedora... APT=Ubuntu/Debian ... you can also use the .bin files as well when certain apps might come packaged that way. (unetbootin for one!)

---

### Post by mayt on 2010-12-06
> **cdnmike said:**
> Yup! :) Almost always .deb files.  YUM = RedHat/Fedora... APT=Ubuntu/Debian ... you can also use the .bin files as well when certain apps might come packaged that way. (unetbootin for one!)
thanks both!

---

### Post by kaldor on 2010-12-07
Let me clear this up for you :)

.deb is a Debian package. It's a software package for distros using Dpkg (Ubuntu, Debian, others). It is your basic installation file for Ubuntu.

.rpm is short for RedHat Package Manager. .rpm files are the equivelent of .debs for RPM distros (RedHat, Fedora, CentOS, openSUSE).

.bin are binary files and should be platform independent for the most part. Mark them as executable (right click, preferences, allow execution as program) and then run them in the terminal.

It is possible to convert .rpms to .deb with a command line tool called Alien. 

Good luck :)

---

