---
title: "12.10 - system freezing"
date: 2013-02-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by adam s on 2013-02-04
Hi,

I upgraded from 12.04 to 12.10 yesterday.
Everything went well.
Some upgrades (patches) were installed this morning and everything seemed to be fine.

This evening (had not re-booted the pc) the system just froze

I have re-booted the PC now several times and I can log in, but as soon as I try and do anything the whole system just freezes and I can do nothing (except pull out the power cable).

Does anyone have any ideas? Is the only solution a full re-installation? This would be an issue because although I backed up yesterday - I literally received an important email today that I wish to keep....

Thanks,

Adam.

---

### Post by superchar42 on 2013-02-04
What kind of computer are you running? Can you try booting into a different window manager instead of gnome/unity

---

### Post by adam s on 2013-02-04
> **superchar42 said:**
> What kind of computer are you running? Can you try booting into a different window manager instead of gnome/unity

I have a simple white box tower that is only Ubuntu. If I specifically need windows (due to silverlight etc) I use my work laptop.
The box is about 3 years old and was a reasonable spec. Ubuntu has never recognised the graphics card and so I never got any of the fancy animations.

Thanks,

Adam.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-02-05
Boot up again. The moment you see the logon screen, do not log in. Instead do <Ctrl>+<Alt>+<F1>. This will bring you to a command line console. Log in on this console instead and run the following command:

```
sudo nano /etc/default/grub
```You will be asked for your password. Once you enter your password, a command line text editor (nano) will be launched and will load your grub configuration file. Be careful here because you will be editing an important system file with root privileges.

Find the line:

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
```After the word *splash* add a space, then the word: *nomodeset* so that the entire line looks like this:

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nomodeset"
```You must do <Ctrl>+<o> to save your changes, then, <Ctrl>+<x> to exit Nano. Then:
```
sudo update-grub
```then:
```
sudo shutdown -r now
```...to reboot.

Post back with report of results.

Even if the system runs without freezing, we have not solved the problem, but only used a work-around. Ultimately, we need to provide you with a proper and stable driver. If the system is now at least stable, please provide output of the following commands:

```
lspci -vk | grep -iA10 vga
``````
sudo lshw -C processor
``````
free -m
```

---

### Post by adam s on 2013-02-05
Hi Duckhook,

Thank you for the reply.

OK. The first thing that I did was to copy the grub to the filename grub.orig

I made the changes that you suggest and then rebooted.
The computer re-booted - showed the plain purple/maroon screen (without an ubuntu sign) and then the signal to the monitor was lost.

..
I tried to do the following blind :
CTRL-ALT-F1 
login
sudo cp /etc/default/grub.orig  /etc/default/grub
sudo update-grub.

And have managed to get back to my freezing system!!!

The lspci gives no output at all.
But, within the lspci command there is the following:
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
subsytem: Intel Corporation Device d613
Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 44
Memory at d0000000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4M]
Memory at c0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
.....

The (reduced) output to the lshw command is :
Pentium(R) Dual-Core CPU E6300 @ 2.80 GHz
width 64 bits
clock 2.66Mhz
capacity 4GHtz
size 1596 MHz

The free -m command is probably irrelevant as this is working from the CTRL-ALT-F1 terminal but ....

                  Total              used             free                 shared        buffers          cached
Mem:              965                 425             539                     0            75               219
-/+ buffers/cache:                    131             834
Swap              2823                 0              2823

Thanks for your help so far.


Adam


Adam.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-02-05
Sorry to leave you hanging like that, but it was getting late last night and even a night owl like me has to go to bed eventually...

I'm glad you had the good sense to make a backup of grub before making my changes. Foolish of me not to include that step initially. Good detective work on the lspci info as well.

Okay, you have an integrated Intel GPU chip on your system. So you don't need special drivers for it. Do you also have another separate graphics card? (We are trying to figure out the physical architecture of your system). If so, then do not follow instructions below.

Your CPU is also capable of running Unity. And you are a little underpowered in RAM (1GB), but it should still work.

Next steps:

We want to get you to the point where you can print/copy off the critical e-mail that you received. After that, you have the option of reinstalling 12.10 from scratch, going back to 12.04, investing further time and trouble trying to make this work, etc. Many options, but little pressure because you all of your critical data is backed up and safe.

1. At next bootup, hold down <Shift> key as system is booting up. This should bring up the grub menu. If <Shift> doesn't work, on some systems it is <Esc>. We want to try "recovery mode". This may be the second line on your grub menu, but it may not, depending on how you installed. The line should read "Ubuntu, with Linux <your_version> (recovery mode)". If system starts up, get your critical e-mail first. Either print it off, copy it to a USB stick or mail it to yourself so that it resides on your ISP's mail server.

2. If this doesn't work, then repeat step 1, but instead of recovery mode, try falling back to an older kernel. At the grub menu, you can select "Previous Linux versions". Try the version before your latest upgrade. Keep regressing until you find a kernel that works.

3. This is troubling:
> **adam s said:**
> Ubuntu has never recognised the graphics card...
...and is likely at the root of your current problems. If you upgraded through the network the first time, it is time to spin off a Live DVD. You can download ISO on your laptop and burn this disk. Then boot up with Live DVD and see if it works. If this session works, then you should consider installing from scratch so that your system does not inherit old incompatible configuration files.

Alternatively, you can install 12.04 again, which has many advantages.
A) you know it works,
B) it is LTS which means that it will be supported to 2017,
c) it tends to be more stable than the latest and greatest.

4. However, if this is not a production machine and you want to really learn Linux, then there's no better way than wrestling with a balky install. We must try to get to a working desktop using 1 or 2 above then look at log outputs: start with dmesg and syslog. Also, would be useful to see your xorg.conf, but let's wait for working desktop first.

<edit>
You may wish to explore other 'buntu flavours. I would especially recommend Lubuntu, but Xubuntu should also work on your system. These are lighter weight distros and given your 1GB of RAM, which is likely also shared with your video chip, they may prove better suited to your system profile. Would suggest that you also burn CDs of these distros and take them for a test drive. Not as much eye-candy, but you're not getting the eye-candy of Unity now anyways, and all of the 3D stuff may be what is actually causing your current problems.
</edit>

---

### Post by adam s on 2013-02-05
Hi DuckHook,

I held down the shift button and my computer went into a memory test..... 20 mins later it is still doing it.

Once (if) I get it working I will copy of the emails - and look at the message logs. But I will take your advice and look at either lubuntu or xubuntu.

I will update the post once I have more information.

Thanks again for your help so far.

Adam.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-02-05
I just came up with a solution to a similar problem in another thread and only after dickering around with less optimal solutions (as I've done here too, unfortunately). So, consider the following solution instead:

Since your system is just barely powerful enough to run Ubuntu (the main resource limitation is your system RAM) and you are already thinking about replacing it with Lubuntu/Xubuntu, then the only issue at this point is retrieving your e-mail. Try the following:

1. Burn a copy of the distro you want to test/use.

2. Attach your backup media to your current computer.

3. Boot into LiveCD mode. Do NOT install. Install will obviously overwrite your current system, including all data.

4. Using the file manager in your LiveCD session, simply copy over the files you want to keep from your /home directory to your backup media. You can see all hidden files by typing <ctrl>+<h> in your file manager, and your e-mail is usually in a hidden file like .thunderbird, or whichever e-mail client you use.

5. Test your backup by seeing if you can read the data on another machine.

6. Once satisfied that all of your data is safe and you have a good backup, install your distro of choice into your current machine.

We could continue trying to work out the issues on your current install, but this will likely take more time than simply installing a current lighter-weight distro. In any case, this is the easiest way to backup your e-mail or anything else, and you then have the luxury of doing whatever you like--either continuing to tinker or just getting to a point where it works with L/Xubuntu.

---

### Post by adam s on 2013-02-06
Thank you.

I will do this. I will also buy some more memory as it is time that my computer has a bit of an upgrade.

Thanks,

Adam.

---

