---
title: "Looking for help with Ubuntu 16.04 lts access to Buffalo Nas smb shared folder"
date: 2018-05-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mishap2 on 2018-05-12
I'm a long time linux user (mostly Red Hat though) but I'm trying something a little different to try to resolve a long standing issue on my home network.  I am running Windows 10 version 1803 on an Intel Core2 Quad with 8Gb ram.  I have installed the Windows Subsystem for Linux and downloaded the Ubuntu linux app from the Windows store.

I had everything working, I thought, and was doing well using *find *to make a list of ALL of my audio files on all of my drives, then using the list to do a sum and create a csv file I could work with in Excel to look for duplicates.

My problem is that I have a Buffalo LinkStation LS220D NAS that uses CIFS shares and **does not support NFS**.  I have discovered that all of the local windows drives are mounted under /mnt by their drive letters.  However the Windows mounted shared drive from the NAS is not!

I attempted to install the CIFS utilities but when I try to mount the NAS I get the following:
larry@LarrysWin10Pro:~$ sudo mount /mnt/n
[sudo] password for larry:
mount error: cifs filesystem not supported by the system
mount error(19): No such device
Refer to the mount.cifs(8) manual page (e.g. man mount.cifs)
larry@LarrysWin10Pro:~$

My /etc/fstab entry is:
//nfs/share     /mnt/n  cifs    username=larry,password-larry,iocharset=utf8,sec=ntlm 0 0

My /etc/hosts file has:
# This file is automatically generated by WSL based on the Windows hosts file:
# %WINDIR%\System32\drivers\etc\hosts. Modifications to this file will be overwritten.
127.0.0.1       localhost
127.0.1.1       LarrysWin10Pro.localdomain      LarrysWin10Pro
192.168.12.254  router
192.168.12.253  nas

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters

So, my real question is: **How can I mount the nas share** so I can *find *the audio files on it and include them in the list of audio files I want to process?

Thanks to all for taking the time to read this.
And double thanks to anyone that responds!!

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2018-05-12
[Here]("https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/wsl/2017/04/18/file-system-improvements-to-the-windows-subsystem-for-linux/") is a blog post on msdn that explains how to mount network shares on WSL.

Holger

---

### Post by mishap2 on 2018-05-12
Thanks, that was exactly what I needed!

---

