---
title: "14.04 keyboard not working"
date: 2015-09-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mgleason2 on 2015-09-26
I recently purchased a Dell Inspiron 3551 with Ubuntu 14.04 installed.  For a few weeks, I had no problems.

This may or may not be relevant, but yesterday, Ubuntu notified me about several updates it wanted to install.  I went ahead and installed them.

This morning, on waking up the laptop, the built-in keyboard does not work.  A wireless USB keyboard does work (now that it has new batteries, anyway... :redface:), however, as does the on-screen keyboard.  The touchpad is also fine.  I'm fairly certain it's not a hardware issue, though, as I've been able to (inconsistently) hit F2/F12 during startup to bring up the different startup options - but once I get in, the built-in keyboard is useless.

I've searched the internet and the forums for various solutions, and found nothing that worked.

Solutions I've found and tried:
sudo apt-get install --reinstall xserver-xorg-input-all

sudo apt-get --purge autoremove xserver-xorg-input-all && sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-input-all

I also went into /etc/default/grub, and changed the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash" line to GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash i8042.nopnp=1 i8042.dumbkbd=1" and ran "sudo update-grub".

I've also gone into Language Support settings and changed the keyboard input method from IBus to None.

I've rebooted in between all these solutions.  No joy.

Help?

---

### Post by Dreamer Fithp Apprentice on 2015-09-26
You might try searching the Dell site for drivers. Since this is a recent purchase you could also email their customer support. As a last resort you could reinstall from a cd. If you don't want to wipe out your tweaks, you could repartion to make space for a new installation, and then copy config files and such over, one at a time.

---

### Post by mgleason2 on 2015-09-30
Well, I was going to try some of those suggestions and hadn't been able to get around to it, but the keyboard mysteriously started working again today.

It's like the classic Windows haiku error message joke: "Yesterday it worked.  Today it does not work.  Windows is like that."  But this isn't Windows...?

Not sure I want to mark this thread as solved without knowing what's going on and whether it's likely to recur and how to fix it if it does... but it's working fine now.

---

