---
title: "14.04.1 Is there a difference with support"
date: 2015-10-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by AWB70UK on 2015-10-12
Setting up Ubuntu 14.04 on a dated work computer,3 Gig Ram, Athlon XP3200 CPU with Nvidia 6800GT. Firstly installed 14.04.3 and found I had issues with Unity and Compiz, didn't like My gcard wih the 304.128 drivers. I managed to get round this by using fallback gnome with meta.

Now that I've got things working and due to messing about a lot with the system I'm going to do a fresh install from scratch. However, I notice [here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases") that 14.04.2 and 14.04.3 will be end of life in August 2016 but 14.04.01 is still good until 2019. Should I download 14.04.1 and use that if I'm looking for stability and what difference would there be as oppose to using the others?

---

### Post by VMC on 2015-10-12
That's kernel support. If you go _[here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack#Kernel.2BAC8-Support.A14.04.x_Ubuntu_Kernel_Support")_ you'll see that 14.04.5 will extend it out to the full length of the LTS.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2015-10-13
awesome PC :-) similar to mine.... these CPU were one of best single core home PC CPU.

anyway you need to find out the correct drivers. the releases just use newer kernels and they will upgrade automatically. 14.04.1 will not upgrade the kernel. if for some reason you find info that older kernel would work better with you card you could try it. if you have live USB you can create persistence on it and try to install drivers on older version.

still I think you need to find where the issue with drivers is (can't help you there as mine has AMD card). there might be some work around or some kernel parameter you need to switch. I find it interesting when NVidia card with official support and proprietary drivers do not work. I couldn't get NVidia on another PC to work as well. no idea why it didn't work with recommended drivers or testing or any NVidia driver for that matter.

one more thing if you can't find anything I suggest you ask NVidia tech support. since they support Linux they have people that know about Linux and they will help you. you just need to provide the results of logging script to them (see their forums on how to get it and run it). they couldn't help me (I could not provide the results) but they were friendly and ready to help, which still counts for something, right?

---

