---
title: "8.04 Server - Users question and SSH"
date: 2008-05-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by fozzyuw on 2008-05-13
Hi All,

Here's a question.  I've installed 8.04 server edition.  I've moving right along learning how to use Ubuntu better.  

I'm currently working on learning/practicing setting up users/groups and permissions.  I've pretty familiar with traditional Linux permissions and I'm also working with ACL's now.

There's my quick background, here's my question.  I've got my first user name "fozzy" that has sudo permissions.  I used "fozzy" to create a new user "test"... ```
sudo useradd -c "Test User" test
```

When I do that, and log the "test" user using PuTTY SSH program (I'm working on my office desktop which is WinXP and connecting to the Ubuntu server through SSH, which is running just fine) my BASH prompt and keys are not working right.

First, the BASH isn't showing the standard BASH.  It's just '$ '.  It should show ```
\u@\h:\w\$
```, which is what... ```
echo $PS1
``` shows under the "fozzy" account.  I tried changing this by doing ```
PS1=\u@\h:\w\$
``` but all I end up with for a BASH is ```
u@h:w$
```.

Anyone know why I cannot get my BASH to interpret special characters (such as \u) under my "test" user?  I'm guess it has something to do with permission levels, but I cannot seem to find the reason.

Second, when logged in under "test" I cannot use the arrow keys to move backwards through the shell commands I entered.  Under "fozzy" I can move back and forth through all the previous commands I entered.  Under "test" all I get is ```
^[[A (or B,C, or D depending on what arrow key I used)
```  I'm guessing it again has something to do with permission levels?

Any ideas?

Cheers,
Fozzy

---

### Post by SomethingCronic on 2008-05-13
You seem to be quite knowlegable about this anyway so I'm not sure I can help, but from first glance it looks like you havn't set bash as your default shell. echo $SHELL should tell you what one you have.

I think you need to set this for your new user, can't remember how too off hand.

EDIT

sudo nano /etc/passwd 

I think you set /bin/bash here if this is what is causing the problem.

---

### Post by fozzyuw on 2008-05-13
> echo $SHELL should tell you what one you have.

It told me I have ```
/bin/sh
``` set for "test" while "fozzy" had ```
/bin/bash
```.

> sudo nano /etc/passwd

I think you set /bin/bash here if this is what is causing the problem.

Yup, that did the trick.  I changed the "test" users "/bin/sh" to "/bin/bash" and that solved both problems.

Thanks SomethingCronic!

I'll have to read up on BASH and sell stuff some more, I recall reading there are multiple ways to use the shell and this is what I was confused about.  I must have been using the very slim down shell version.  (not sure on terminology, so I'll pass it for now)

---

### Post by SomethingCronic on 2008-05-13
No problem.

Look on the web about adduser/useradd - you normally define at this point what shell the user would be using.

Bash (Bourne Again Shell) is the standard and one of the most feature rich shells. I beleive the /bin/sh shell is a throwback to UNIX and is used if no other is defined - although I might be wrong about it's true value :)

---

