---
title: "13.10, Handbrake and Arista both hang - suspect libdvdcss"
date: 2013-11-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-12
I'm running 13.10.  I have Handbrake installed and am trying to rip my Monsters University dvd.  It goes to .001% and just hangs there - I have to cancel it.  I installed Arista and tried it -  shows a black preview screen and just hangs right after starting the copy.  I have to kill it.

I wanted to use makemkv but since going to 13.10 I hadn't reinstalled it.  So I went back to the makemkv forums, downloaded the 2 files and followed the instructions.  It errors out with:

```
dave@davepc:/usr/bin$ makemkvcon
makemkvcon: error while loading shared libraries: libmakemkv.so.1: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
dave@davepc:/usr/bin$ 

```

I have no clue what to do.  I want to rip the dvd, but it is apparently non-standard in some way - something makemkv used to handle in 13.04 (since 13.10 I hadn't reinstalled it).  I followed the instructions for their make with install, but open a search in the file manager that file only shows in the subfolder in my account where it was built.  I tried copying it to /lib32, /lib64 and /usr/share and /usr/lib.  I don't know where the heck it goes so I tried those since they had .so files, though the makefile.linux would indicate /usr/lib (the make install never put it there).  Still the same error.

If anyone could help an idiot by pointing to either where the file goes or what is wrong with the makemkv instructions for linux it would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-13
Found a script to download the latest makemkv, compile it, build a deb and install it, and that solved the makemkv problem.

However, I am not able to convert the DVD.  It runs through makemkv fine, but makemkv issues quite a few messages about errors in the files.  The resulting mk4 file is fine, but it obviously couldn't figure out the order of the various chapters and pieces, as the movie is just a jumbled mess of short scenes.  Tried running that output through Handbrake, which of course kept the same scrambled chapters, but at least Handbrake could read the mk4.

It appears that they are using "better" ways of making loading your DVD's to disk harder by messing up the contents of the video_ts files in such a manner that some things aren't the correct size, offsets are different, etc..  The DVD can still be played, but using the currently availalbe tools it's apparently not possible to load this DVD to disk for my media center.

---

