---
title: "New load of 10.04 - No wireless Internet access"
date: 2010-07-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Dovedale on 2010-07-15
Ubuntu 10.04 loaded onto a Dell Optiplex GX270. All great but "Service not found" when Firefox started? 
The desk top is using a Edimax USB WiFi adapter and rt73usb driver which is connected ok to a BT Homehub. The device has an IP address assigned of 192.168.1.66 which I have ping'd to ok. The primary DNS address is 192.168.1.254 which I cannot ping to, so assume is where the issue is? 
I also have a problem where the desk top will not recognize a wired LAN connection and a USB memory stick (even though Ubuntu 10.04 was loaded via a USB memory stick!!)
I have gone through the Wireless Trouble shooting guide which seems to point to an issue with the PC - Router link. Either the driver for the USB adapter or the IPv6 (tried to disable but no aliases file found in modprobe.d folder as specified)
Any ideas as I have now reached the limit of my knowledge.;)
Thanks in advance 
First time Ubuntu user

---

### Post by ubudog on 2010-07-16
This might fix your wireless issue: Change your /etc/resolv.conf file (with gedit or whatever you like) to say exactly this.  (in the config below, it is using opendns, but you can change that when you want) 

It should look like this:
```

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220
```

and then in a terminal run 
```
sudo chattr +i /etc/resolv.conf
```
(too lock it like that for now)
and to unlock it to change the config, but don't do that now, or it will all get changed when you reboot, type this
```
sudo chattr -i /etc/resolv.conf
```
Then, restart your computer and connect to your network, and try to get online.  Let me know if that doesn't do it.  Good luck.

---

### Post by ubudog on 2010-07-16
Also, as for the USB issue.  Plug in your flash drive and copy the output of this...
```
ls /media/
```

---

