---
title: ".thumbnails directory missing, how to refresh thumbnails"
date: 2013-08-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by alanhorizon on 2013-08-29
hi,

i've read in a few places that you can clear the nautilus thumbnail cache by deleting the ~/.thumbnails directory, however, this folder doesn't even exist on my machine. This is just a standard ubuntu 13.04 desktop installation. has this folder been moved, and in any case, what would be the best way to clear the thumbnail cache, or just refresh the thumbnails.

thanks

---

### Post by toady2 on 2013-08-29
Right click on any empty white space in nautilus and click show hidden files. If it is not on the right click menu, then click view (drop down menu) and click show hidden files.

---

### Post by Jonathan Precise on 2013-08-29
Press Ctrl. + H to show files and folders that start with a dot, which mean they are hidden (e.g: .thumbnails).

---

### Post by alanhorizon on 2013-09-02
Apologies, I already know how to see hidden files and have viewed my home directory in command line as well. the directory just doesn't exist. does nautilus still store thumbnails in the .thumbnails directory as of ubuntu 13.04? if not, where are they stored?

in addition, if there's a gui way to clear/refresh thumbnails, that knowledge would be much appreciated as well.

---

### Post by Jonathan Precise on 2013-09-02
> **alanhorizon said:**
> Apologies, I already know how to see hidden files and have viewed my home directory in command line as well. the directory just doesn't exist. does nautilus still store thumbnails in the .thumbnails directory as of ubuntu 13.04? if not, where are they stored?

in addition, if there's a gui way to clear/refresh thumbnails, that knowledge would be much appreciated as well.

.thumbnails still exists as of 13.04. Make sure you have all updates installed.
To clear the thumbnails (and give you other settings to tweak), install ubuntu tweak:

```
sudo -i
add-apt-repository ppa:tualatrix/ppa
apt-get update; apt-get install ubuntu-tweak
exit
```

Launch ubuntu-tweak. Then click on Start janitor. Check everything, then click on clean. That will clean thumbnails and other unneeded "cruft".

---

