---
title: "How do I enable lubuntu hotkeys?"
date: 2011-03-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by brawnypandora0 on 2011-03-31
I just switched from Ubuntu to lubuntu a few minutes ago. When I had Ubuntu, if I wanted to increase/decrease my laptop volume, all I had to do was simultaneously press the Fn (function) button on my laptop plus the up/down volume key. Now when I do that nothing happens. So what do I do to enable these hotkeys

---

### Post by TCAllen07 on 2011-11-03
[This thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1784263") provided some help for me. It doesn't seem to be a one- or two-step solution, though. Perhaps there's a newer, easier method available in 11.10, however...

-Trevor

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2011-11-03
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#I_want_to_bind_a_key_to_lock_my_screen.2C_how_do_I_do_it.3F](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#I_want_to_bind_a_key_to_lock_my_screen.2C_how_do_I_do_it.3F)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422861](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422861)

It's an old thread by the way :)

---

### Post by muppet317 on 2011-11-17
I've been struggling with this and I'm not sure what I'm getting wrong (sorry! I've checked the One Stop Thread, here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422861](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422861) and here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1867907](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1867907))

I've tried editing both  /home/<user>/.config/openbox/lubuntu-rc.xml and  /home/<user>/.config/openbox/lxde-rc.xml to get the volume buttons to work

They both currently read:

```
<keybind key="XF86AudioRaiseVolume">
      <action name="Execute">
          <command>amixer -q sset Master 3%+</command>
      </action>
    </keybind>

    <keybind key="XF86AudioLowerVolume">
      <action name="Execute">
         <command>amixer -q sset Master 3%-</command>
      </action>
    </keybind>

    <keybind key="XF86AudioMute">
      <action name="Execute">
          <command>amixer -q sset Master toggle</command>
      </action>
    </keybind>
```I've tried commenting these sections out and also tried replacing 'Master' with 'PCM' in lubuntu-rc.xml, re-starting after every change - with no success

To make sure that it wasn't just that the settings weren't taking effect I also tried running 'openbox --configure' but that produced
```
Openbox-Message: Invalid command line argument "--configure"

```Any help, greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by marinara on 2011-11-19
when you login, do you login with LXDE as your session, Lubuntu, or what?
Last week I was running the live CD (well usb) on my laptop, those keys were working outta the box

---

### Post by SteveDee on 2011-11-19
> **muppet317 said:**
> ...I've tried editing both  /home/<user>/.config/openbox/lubuntu-rc.xml and....

I don't think the problem is with lubuntu-rc.xml because this is a standard file using standard key descriptors.

Assuming that amixer is OK then this is a hardware specific problem, probably due to they way the keys are mapped or identified at a lower level in the system. If you trawl through the packages in Synaptic Package Manager you will find some that relate to laptops, and its possible that the solution is in one of these.

---

### Post by marinara on 2011-11-19
stupid question, but is the mixer working otherwise?

---

### Post by muppet317 on 2011-11-19
Not a stupid question! Yes, otherwise the mixer works fine.

I login using lubuntu, though I upgraded from regular ubuntu (gnome) simply by adding lubuntu-dektop and lubuntu-core through synaptic. the volume keys work fine when I login into ubuntu (gnome) just not lubuntu. could it be because I've still got gnome on my system?

Other function keys, such as brightness, work fine - its just the volume keys that aren't working.

I'm running lubuntu on an asus eeepc (if that makes any difference)

---

### Post by marinara on 2011-11-19
do you have the crap at the top of the xml file
this stuff:
```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!-- Do not edit this file, it will be overwritten on install.
        Copy the file to $HOME/.config/openbox/ instead. -->
<openbox_config xmlns="http://openbox.org/3.4/rc">


```

I've noticed that it's easy to mess up editing the lubuntu-rc.xml file.  In particular, it expects a tag heirarchy, and you can't just paste in code like you can with other configuration files.

---

### Post by muppet317 on 2011-11-20
After having a few minor issues like this, I tried to remove ubuntu from my system (using the code from here: [http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/purelxde](http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/purelxde) ) so that I would have clean lubuntu system to work from. After running the code my computer failed to restart, only reaching the initial lubuntu loading screen, and never getting to the login page. 

I'm now trying out a clean install of xubuntu, so no longer have the lubuntu volume keys issue...

---

### Post by edsonmatos on 2013-01-17
Try this:

[INDENT][INDENT]<!-- Keybinding for Volume management -->
    <keybind key="XF86AudioRaiseVolume">
      <action name="Execute">
        <command>amixer -q -c 1 sset Master 3%+ unmute</command>
      </action>
    </keybind>
    <keybind key="XF86AudioLowerVolume">
      <action name="Execute">
        <command>amixer -q -c 1 sset Master 3%- unmute</command>
      </action>
    </keybind>
    <keybind key="XF86AudioMute">
      <action name="Execute">
        <command>amixer -q -c 1 sset Master toggle</command>
      </action>
    </keybind>
[/INDENT][/INDENT]To test run in terminal: amixer -q -c 1 sset Master 3%+ unmute
change the number after "-c " to find the number of your card (0, 1, 2...)

---

### Post by overdrank on 2013-01-17
From the _[Ubuntu Forums Code of Conduct]("http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy")_.
> If a post is older than a year or so and hasn't had a new reply in that time, instead of replying to it, create a new thread. In the software world, a lot can change in a very short time, and doing things this way makes it more likely that you will find the best information. You may link to the original discussion in the new thread if you think it may be helpful.
Thread closed.

---

