---
title: "10.10.10 or 42!"
date: 2010-10-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-10-07
I know this sounds stupid, but I am a noob and the number of beans I have only go to prove that I have had lots of my stupid questions - and this is another! When 10.10 comes out, to upgrade, will I need to delete the partition that Lucid is on and then install 10.10 from a live cd?

---

### Post by Bhamid on 2010-10-07
no, you can upgrade through the update manager if you like, and preserve your data and customizations, just press Alt and F2 and type in 'update manager -d' (when 10.10 comes out).

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-10-07
that would be my recommendation. they call it a "clean install". there is the option to perform a distribution upgrade, but i personally find them to take hours and hours longer than a clean install, and can cause problems if you have apps that came from outside the repositories. 

next time around, consider creating a seperate home or data partition where your files will live. that way you can blow away the OS partition (/) while keeping all your data. 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=282018](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=282018)

---

### Post by catlover2 on 2010-10-07
no.

go to system>administration>update manager and it will say "Distribution upgrade"

and then you can upgrade the distro and keep all your settings.

catlover


(oops two pepole posted while i was!! :biggrin:

---

### Post by cgroza on 2010-10-07
> **catlover2 said:**
> no.

go to system>administration>update manager and it will say "Distribution upgrade"

and then you can upgrade the distro and keep all your settings.

catlover


(oops two pepole posted while i was!! :biggrin:

Lucid is an LTS,  so the user will not be notified about 10.10  unless he changes some settings.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-10-07
You can upgrade directly to 10.10 from update manager.

I prefer clean installs, but that's probably cuz all my data is stored on a seperate drive.

> **cgroza said:**
> Lucid is an LTS,  so the user will not be notified about 10.10  unless he changes some settings.

They don't need to change anything. See [here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat/TechnicalOverview#Upgrading%20from%20Ubuntu%2010.04%20LTS").

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-10-07
Cheers for that everyone

> consider creating a seperate home or data partition where your files  will live. that way you can blow away the OS partition (/) while keeping  all your data.I read about that just after I had already not done it lol....we live to learn :-)

Edit - I'm getting rid of windows this time around, so may as well go for a fresh install with a seperate /home partition

---

