---
title: "8.10 live cd freezes"
date: 2009-02-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by minsf on 2009-02-09
my XP box freezed today. i'm fed up with XP and want to install ubuntu (i have a couple of other ubuntu boxes and i love it).
_problem:_ while running ubuntu 8.10 from live cd, the splash screen freezes
_more details:_ 1. when connecting to the ac power, i dont even get the BIOS screen, just a black screen with a blinking "_".
2. when running from the battery, i get the normal BIOS. then the system boots from the live cd. i choose "english" and to "run without changes" and it starts loading, but freezes.
3. live cd freezes after 14 squares have been filled with orange, out of the 20 squares of the bar (under the ubuntu logo). 
4. it's ubuntu 8.10's live cd (desktop)
5. i have an output file of "lshw" that i ran on this box a month ago, so i can probably give you more hardware details upon request.
6. i ran the "test memory" from the live cd, and it passed.
7. hardware testing from the Bios passed ok
8. as I said, booting from XP freezes too. but the XP "safe mode" works ok. 
ideally, i would like to install ubuntu on the hd, but i am afraid i'll get into more trouble if it freezes in the middle of the installation. should i try installing anyways?

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2009-02-09
Have you checked the cd for integrity?

---

### Post by HavocXphere on 2009-02-09
If both XP and ubuntu freeze then there is probably something wrong with your hardware. The blinking _ when AC is connected also doesn't sound good.

I'd suggest sorting the hardware out before installing anything.

I'd suggest:
->Check temperatures in bios
->Running memtest for longer period 6h+
->Running in a heavily aircon'd room to see if its a hardware issue
->Check the hdd for errors

I don't think you'll be able to sort out the AC thing on your own. It'll probably require a professional to take a look at the laptop in detail. Could also be the power brick.:confused:

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2009-02-09
hi,

as mentioned above, seems like a hardware issue which cannot be that easily fixed. Have some strange things happened before the freezes started? Is this a newer or older laptop?

Have you tried the alternate CD?

---

### Post by minsf on 2009-02-12
> **TeoBigusGeekus said:**
> Have you checked the cd for integrity?
it is actually a cd that i got from canonical (thank you canonical!) and i know it used to work on this box before. so i did not think it is a problem with the cd (recall that XP also gets frozen).
nevertheless, i did check it: i created an image file from the live cd, and verified that the md5sum is the same as the md5sum posted on ubuntu.com

actually, the cd contains 300KiB of additional zero bytes (i viewed it via xxd). when one cuts this zero tail, one gets an iso file which matches the md5sum posted on ubuntu.com. this zero tail mystery is a subject of another thread of mine [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1057305](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1057305) (other people seem to also be interested in an explanation of this phenomena) 

bottom line: the live cd is good

---

### Post by minsf on 2009-02-12
so the big news are that i can run Slax on this box (it's a live cd version of slackware). i prefer to run ubuntu, but this is not yet possible. and yet, this is good news because i can get a standard linux command line, so let me know if you have an idea for a cool command.
Before, if i plugged in the AC adapter, the box would freeze. or if i tried to start it on AC, i wouldnt even get the bios. but now i can start it on battery, run slax live cd, and then connect the ac adapter without a freeze.
my guess is that this is because slax is a little less heavy than XP/ubuntu. maybe it's just a memory problem and slax using less RAM than ubuntu's live cd. just guessing- not sure yet.
  
> **HavocXphere said:**
> 
I'd suggest:
->Check temperatures in bios
i cannot see the temprature in the bios. is there a cool way to do it with Dell's bios? (Inspiron 1150)
> **HavocXphere said:**
> 
->Running memtest for longer period 6h+

at first this seemed impossible. remember, i can only work on battery. so the longest memmory test i was able to do is for 40 min. through the live cd. it said it passed it ok.
however, now that i can run some linux on this box (slax), please let me know if there is a way to test the memory from the command line.

> **HavocXphere said:**
> 
->Running in a heavily aircon'd room to see if its a hardware issue

i tried this but it didnt work. i think there used to be a temprature problem that CAUSED this break, but right now the laptop is very cool.

> **HavocXphere said:**
> 
->Check the hdd for errors
what is the command line for this check?

---

### Post by minsf on 2009-02-14
> **Michael.Godawski said:**
> Have some strange things happened before the freezes started? Is this a newer or older laptop?
it's a Dell Inspiron 1150 a bit more than 3 years old. i know this means ages in computer industry, but i was still hoping to make it work :)

it used to complain about tempratures. that is, if put on the bed- thereby probably blocking one of its ventilation exits- it would shut down after awhile, and on the next boot it said it had to shut down due to temprature.

thanks!

---

