---
title: "1204"
date: 2012-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by thorbs on 2012-05-11
I installed 1204 ten days just before going on vacation (with out internet access). I loved my 1104 but my 1204 has been a complete mess with bootup breaking, programs constantly breaking and even the help messages being all messed up.

I have updated the system after comming back but its still a mess. So I was wondering if I should go through another fresh install or wait for some time for bug fixes.

---

### Post by dniMretsaM on 2012-05-11
> **thorbs said:**
> I installed 1204 ten days just before going on vacation (with out internet access). I loved my 1104 but my 1204 has been a complete mess with bootup breaking, programs constantly breaking and even the help messages being all messed up.

I have updated the system after comming back but its still a mess. So I was wondering if I should go through another fresh install or wait for some time for bug fixes.

Did you do a fresh install or an upgrade? And what specific problems are you having?

---

### Post by thorbs on 2012-05-12
I did a fresh install, next to my mint partition. I am experiencing constant messages about problems happening in lubuntu, and lubuntu having to close. 
I get an error on boot. I have my browser (chromium) and mplayer, vlc closing down on me constantly with a message of errors. The messages themselves (which are in danish) are missing letters.

A few times the comp has completely refused to boot and I have had to turn off and turn on. 


The mint partition seems to work flawless. The only thing that seems to work flawless on lubuntu is Geany.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2012-05-12
Installed 12.04 5 days ago and no problems here. There is the occasional message popping up about something not being just right and I've had to fine tune the system since then, which is natural, but runs great here. I'm using "Classic Gnome".

---

### Post by codingman on 2012-05-12
Try reinstalling; my only thought. Unless you have crazy old hardware, which could mean bad drivers and all that stuff...

---

### Post by infectedorganism on 2012-05-12
I also did a clean install and am constantly getting crash reports on 12.04 whereas I didn't have any on 11.10. I don't see myself switching to another distro, but hopefully in a few weeks some of these bugs are sorted out.

---

### Post by codingman on 2012-05-12
...but I have not tried the 12.04 lubuntu version so I do not know how buggy that is compared to ubuntu 12.04

---

