---
title: "My 8.10 Installation Won't Start Anymore"
date: 2009-11-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nheather on 2009-11-18
My Ubuntu 8.10 installation was working fine last time I tried.

I don't use it that often but I've never had a problem with it starting.

Just tried it today and it simply won't start.

When I select the Ubuntu 8.10 option in GRUB I get a black screen and the following is displayed

> Boot from (hd1,0) ext3 {some serial number}
Starting up...

and that's it.  No matter how long I leave it, nothing else happens.

The only recent change I can recall is a graphics card update from a 8800GTS to HD4890.

I've done some searching and found similar reports but they all relate to Ubuntu never running, not cases where it was running fine and then stopped.

Any ideas?

Cheers,

Nigel

---

### Post by yanceypd on 2009-11-18
Can you boot to recovery mode and select repaiir broken packages?

---

### Post by nheather on 2009-11-19
> Can you boot to recovery mode

How do you do that?

I suspect the answer is NO.  It is getting very far in the boot up at all - it's not like the boot is getting so far and then failing, it is barely starting.

An the point that it gets to I have no keyboard control so the only way I can abandon the boot is the power down the PC.

Cheers,

Nigel

---

### Post by pootan on 2009-11-19
You boot into recovery mode by scrolling down the grub menu to the option with the same kernel name as your default boot option with recovery mode after it. This is usually directly under your default boot option. Once you've highlighted that entry press Enter.

If you don't see the grub menu you hit the Esc key to see the options.

---

### Post by ilil on 2009-11-19
What error GRUB writes after "Starting up... "?
It definitely writes more than just starting up!

---

### Post by a94060 on 2009-11-19
My 2 cents: After grub says starting up, doesnt that mean it is attempting to load the kernel/system.map or whatever it may load? Does that mean that possibly that one of those files are corrupt? Do you get the "Press escape to see boot menu prompt?"

---

