---
title: "14.04, Handbrake, VLC"
date: 2014-05-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-21
My previous 14.04 installation was via an distribution upgrade from 13.10, not a fresh install.  At that time I had to install Handbrake from the Saucy repository since it wasn't "there" yet for 14.04.  I had libdvdcss installed, etc., and everything was working good, including playback via VLC.

Had to do a reset to factory defaults on my laptop and just reinstalled Ubuntu 14.04 from scratch this time for dual boot with Windows 8.1.  I found Handbrake was in the repositories so I marked it and installed it.  I installed VLC, and I installed libdvdcss.  After encoding a DVD to m4k file I started VLC and the playback was distorted - like the decoding partially worked.  When I opened the file in the default video player instead of VLC, it played fine.  Never had this happen before.

Does anyone know of any problems with either/or VLC, Handbrake and libdvcss in 14.04?

Thanks!

---

### Post by veddox on 2014-05-21
I've had problems with VLC too under 14.04, couldn't play a DVD with it. Haven't found a bug fix yet, though.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-05-21
If you use Unity you may find your desktop grinds to a halt when using handbrake to rip a dvd (not sure about other DEs)  The workaround is to disable the tray icon for handbrake then it all works.
I have not had problem with vlc playing back dvd, but occasionally some videos appear pixiated (does not happen in 13.10, same videos). I compiled vlc from source though.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-21
No problems so far as far as speed goes for Handbrake in 14.40 for me (the latest that I had to reload to my Windows 8.1 side doesn't even work!), and since I was able to view the ripped file in the default viewer, I'm guessing it must be something with VLC.  I doubled checked to be sure that besides libdvdcss I also had ubunt-restricted-addons installed, which they are.  Strange.  I guess I'll transfer the movie to my Pi XBMC media center and see if it plays there or not.  In VLC, it's like the last 1/3rd of the screen is in the front, the middle I guess is ok, and the rest is on the right, but it all slants to the upper right and needless to say can't be view.  I don't get the pixalation, etc., one might expect if libdvdcss wasn't installed/working.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-21
veddox:

If you are talking about a commercial DVD you need to to install libdvdcss in order to descramble it.  Be sure you have libdvdread4 installed (I think it may be by default now), and then go to the /usr/share/doc/libdvdread4 folder and run the install-css.sh shell file.  If you need instructions on how to do that please post back, as I would assume others viewing this thread might be looking for the same thing, even though it is not what this thread is about.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-22
OK, this is definitenly something with VLC.  Handbrake and libdvdcss obviously worked as the movies play fine on my Pi media center.

Anyone know if this needs to be reported somehow and to who?

---

