---
title: "9.10 After login restarts back to login screen"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by yozgoesdigital on 2009-10-30
Hi All, Unfortunately I am one encoutering a problem with the upgrade from Kubuntu 9.04 to 9.10.

During the upgrade I got the option to replace the modified file */etc/kde4/kdm/kdmrc* To be safe I chose to keep the old file.
After the upgrade I get to see the old (9.04) login screen after login in shows the new (9.10) startup screen. While loading the screen turns black and see the login menu again.

Before trying (and completly screwing up) myself like last time I first want to ask here. Any ideas?? 

By the way runs on:
Acer aspire 1350 notebook

---

### Post by phillw on 2009-10-30
> **yozgoesdigital said:**
> Hi All, Unfortunately I am one encoutering a problem with the upgrade from Kubuntu 9.04 to 9.10.

During the upgrade I got the option to replace the modified file */etc/kde4/kdm/kdmrc* To be safe I chose to keep the old file.
After the upgrade I get to see the old (9.04) login screen after login in shows the new (9.10) startup screen. While loading the screen turns black and see the login menu again.

Before trying (and completly screwing up) myself like last time I first want to ask here. Any ideas?? 

By the way runs on:
Acer aspire 1350 notebook


This refers to 9.04, but it should be the same thing...

> Yay! I have successfully upgraded to KDE 4.3!! 

The only downside is, I'm stuck with the default Oxygen icons.

So was I so I reverted to default settings by deleting ~/.kde/

I did this:
Log out of my session.
Ctrl-Alt-F1 to go to tty1.
Backup my ~/.kde to kde.tar
tar -cvvf kde.tar .kde/
Delete ~/.kde
rm -rf .kde
Restart
sudo shutdown -r now

Then after a restart KDE went to defaults for 4.3. I just had to copy my ktorrent config back into the new ~/.kde from my backup (I had some half-downloaded torrents)
   izizzle
August 7th, 2009, 02:43 PM

Thanks Krazyd. I did that, but it removed ALL my setings (Bespin configs, color schemes, etc), so I reverted back to the backup...I guess I'll stick with KDE icons until I get the time to redo everything.



They were discussing about the kdmrc file - I'm pretty sure it'll work for 9.10

There is stuff on kdmrc here  [http://www.kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php](http://www.kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php)

just search for kdmrc

Hope that helps.

Phill.

---

### Post by yozgoesdigital on 2009-10-30
Hi Phil,
Thanks, tried your what you quoted and does not work... 
Searched the kubuntuforums without any clue 

I am afraid the problem in that case is not the  *kdmrc* file, but some general hardware support problem (it is an old machine already) Or any other ideas?

YOz

---

### Post by hanzomon4 on 2009-11-08
It's bespin... Change your style back to oxygen or remove the .kde directory in your home folder

---

### Post by yozgoesdigital on 2009-11-08
As far as I understand the commands in the quote of phillw use the tactic of removing the .kde folder.
I tried this (checked with command ls -a and the folder .kde was gone). But afterwards logging in still doesn't work.

So the other option would be change style back to oxygen (which it was only with a changed colour scheme), but would this in the end not have to same effect as removing the .kde folder? (correct me if I am wrong)

I have had problems before with upgrading to a new version and the video card support (VIA if I remember correctly) see this thread:[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=852101&highlight=aspire+1350&page=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=852101&highlight=aspire+1350&page=4)
Could this be the problem again, since the machine is not able to even open the default style?

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by kapcom01 on 2010-02-10
is this solved?

---

### Post by yozgoesdigital on 2010-02-11
Long time ago already, but to answer your question: No.
the proposed answers did not solve it. 

Without any clue to solve it, I started experimenting en got the kubuntu Netbook Remix and Lubuntu both working. Both are working, but have both their issues. Could also be bugs or something, but next listening music and watching movies the machine is not used.

And since I did not hear anybody else about it, it is problably something to this specific machine.

---

### Post by ZombieApocalypse on 2010-02-11
Hi yozgoesdigital

I had the same problem with the same laptop (Acer 1355LC to be specific). The problem seem to be KDE. I acquired the Ubuntu 9.10 disk and did a fresh install, this seemed to resolve the problem. The display runs on the generic vesa driver, but you need to install the openchrome drivers for proper video playback (see [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-openchrome/+bug/258764](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-openchrome/+bug/258764) for details). Everything seems to run fine, but don't expect to run any intensive 2D applications - guess we'll have to wait for better display drivers...:D

Hope this helps

---

### Post by yozgoesdigital on 2010-02-11
Hi ZombieApocalypse,
Thanks for your reply, I expected something like that, but had given up on it. Now I know the ubuntu works I will give it a try the coming weeks.

* As I said it is used by my housemates too, and with the current installation it is hard to convince them to switch to linux :biggrin:

YOz

---

