---
title: "Problems mounting my /home on a new partition"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jdfoote on 2008-04-28
First, thank you to all of the great Ubuntu enthusiasts on the forums! You have made my transition from Windows painless, and have converted me to a full-fledged FOSS zealot. I appreciate those who spend their time helping n00bs like me.

That being said, I need more help :)

I tried to move my /home directory to its own partition (following the instructions at [http://ubuntu.wordpress.com/2006/01/29/move-home-to-its-own-partition/](http://ubuntu.wordpress.com/2006/01/29/move-home-to-its-own-partition/)) so that I could do a fresh install, and now I'm in a world of hurt. 

When I tried to restart I got a message that said "Your home directory is listed as: 'home/myname' but it does not appear to exist. Do you want to log in with the /(root) directory as your home directory? It is unlikely anything will work unless you use a failsafe session."

This is true - nothing worked, and it logged me out immediately. So, using the shell I tried to move my backup of the home directory back to /home, and now when I start up I get:


fsck.ext3: No such file or directory while trying to open /dev/sd5 /dev/sda5:
The superblock could not be read or does not describe a correct ext2 filesystem. If the device is valid and it really contains an ext2 filesystem (and not swap or ....

If I push ctrl+d, then it continues to boot, but brings me back to the original error message "Your home directory is listed as..."


I have a backup of my most important files on DVD, so I can do a disk format and reinstall, but I would love to be able to save my /home directory.

Any help would be _greatly_ appreciated. Thanks!

---

### Post by Tatty on 2008-04-28
I followed that guide yesterday (well i followed the psychocats one, but its based on that guide).  I had the same problem you did, to solve it i did a few things...

firstly i added "sudo" before the find command.  This seemed to make the command go a bit more smoothly and it enabled me to boot up into a desktop without that error message you mentioned, although there were still some permission problems...

Secondly i had to boot to a command line and chown the home directory to my username and my group.

```
sudo chown -R *username*:*groupname* /home/*yourhomedir*
```

thirdly i searched my backed up home directory (the untouched one moved to /old_home) for all files which were owned by root using: ```
ls -l -a -R | grep root
``` (make sure you are in your home direcotry when doing this)

and then i manually chowned each of those files in the new /home back to root

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-04-28
How did you partition the disk for your /home?

---

### Post by jdfoote on 2008-04-28
I partitioned it using GParted.

I saw a few people saying something about adding the UUID for the partition to fstab, but I don't know where to find the UUID. Is that a possible fix?

Tatty, how do I know my group name?

---

### Post by Tatty on 2008-04-28
Your group name is usually the same as your username.  To check for certain go to System->Administration->Users and Groups, then select your username and click "properties", go to the advanced tab and its under "main group".

But its almost certainly the same as your username.

So assuming your username is jdfoote then you would do:

```
sudo chown -R jdfoote:jdfoote /home/jdfoote
```

Then when you are setting the files owned by root back you would do:

```
sudo chown -R root:root /home/jdfoote/*path*
```

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-04-28
maybe post your fstab please?

---

### Post by jdfoote on 2008-04-28
Commented out, it says that the file has been generated by ntfs-config, then (I'm typing what I think is important, since I can't copy & paste from that box):

proc /proc proc defautls 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=blah blah blah / ext3 defaults.errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID= blah blah blah none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf ,iso9660 user ,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Windows....
/dev/sda5 /home ext3 nodev,nosuid 0 2



When I looked at /dev/disk/by-uuid I see entries for sda1, sda2, sda4, and sda3, but nothing for sda5...

---

