---
title: "8.04 going back to 32 bit"
date: 2008-11-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by fcorourke on 2008-11-24
Hi I had some system trouble [printer would not re-install something else] with 7.10 and backed up data & decided to go to 8.10  -- too many hoops for my ATI 9800 Pro. So mistakenly loaded 8.04 64 bit & went through changing what I needed to work. All but Flash that is, I have tried most every thread -- done clean outs etc & still no flash :-( .. Is there any way to go from 64 bit 8.04 to 32 bit version without a complete redo?? Oh a different note -- anybody like Xover Linux for games>? It nagged me to point I un-installed before really trying. It is worth paying the money to not have the nags.

    Fred

---

### Post by biriachan on 2008-11-24
> **fcorourke said:**
> Hi I had some system trouble [printer would not re-install something else] with 7.10 and backed up data & decided to go to 8.10  -- too many hoops for my ATI 9800 Pro. So mistakenly loaded 8.04 64 bit & went through changing what I needed to work. All but Flash that is, I have tried most every thread -- done clean outs etc & still no flash :-( .. Is there any way to go from 64 bit 8.04 to 32 bit version without a complete redo?? Oh a different note -- anybody like Xover Linux for games>? It nagged me to point I un-installed before really trying. It is worth paying the money to not have the nags.

    Fred

If you partitions your root and home folders its pretty easy, if you didn't you may need to do a full reinstall.

On a side note there is a new Beta 64-bit Flash player thats works great!

I have installed it on 4 different 64bit ubuntu 8.04 installs and have not had one crash with the new beta flash player.  If you stay with 8.04 64-bit give the new beta flash player a try.

There is a script I found somewhere on the net that will remove any old flash packages and install the new beta flash player

---

### Post by squaregoldfish on 2008-11-24
Thanks for providing the Flash installer script, wherever it came from!

Steve.

---

### Post by fcorourke on 2008-11-24
Thanks, I will give that a shot. How do I open or do I go in terminal and like open??

   Fred

---

### Post by biriachan on 2008-11-24
Download the file "install flash - 64bit.sh".  Once you have the file saved right click and goto "Properties".  Next click on the "Pressmissions" tab and check the box for "Execute: - Allow execution file as program"

Once finished giving the script file rights to execute simply double click the file.  A new dialog box will open with 4 options "Run in Terminal", "Display", "Cancel", and "Run".

Select "Run in Terminal"

Once stated you will need to enter your login password into the newly opened terminal.

The script will then execute and should take about a 1 minute with broadband internet speeds.

---

### Post by fcorourke on 2008-11-24
I will be giving it a try now thanks.

    Fred

---

### Post by fcorourke on 2008-11-24
Ah well, still in same place, I do to Adobe or You Tube & it says install Flash. No bad side effects noticed -- Ah well, that is life, I should be working anyway.

---

### Post by biriachan on 2008-11-24
Not sure if this will help but I tracked down the original website where I found the script I posted.

[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-install-adobe-flash-player-10-in-ubuntu-804-hardy-heron.html]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-install-adobe-flash-player-10-in-ubuntu-804-hardy-heron.html")

Maybe that will help.

---

### Post by fcorourke on 2008-11-24
I tried that also, why is mine different?? Mainly how, I do a basic install with basic options -- nothing special and I guess it might be the computer, but that [this one] is pretty basic too AMD 3800 with ATI 9800 XT Pro with 3 gigs of memory. Thanks so much for trying. I try and run [and do mostly] Ubuntu all the time, only some things -- I lost internet in Windows 2 months ago & I do not care as I only use some apps. But flash is important in email and too much now to ignore. :-(  

     Fred

---

### Post by biriachan on 2008-11-24
> **fcorourke said:**
> I tried that also, why is mine different?? Mainly how, I do a basic install with basic options -- nothing special and I guess it might be the computer, but that [this one] is pretty basic too AMD 3800 with ATI 9800 XT Pro with 3 gigs of memory. Thanks so much for trying. I try and run [and do mostly] Ubuntu all the time, only some things -- I lost internet in Windows 2 months ago & I do not care as I only use some apps. But flash is important in email and too much now to ignore. :-(  

     Fred

Personally I like to do all my installs with a 3 partition setup. One for "/" (root), one for "/home" (User's Home Folders), and one for Swap.  

Having a partition for "/home" makes it easy to formation and reinstall the OS without losing your files and program settings.

You can also create a list of all your packages you have installed on the system.  If you every need to reinstall the OS it's simple to reinstall all your packages with one command.

To create a list of all currently installed packages:
```
sudo dpkg --get-selections > $HOME/package.selections
```

Note: Make sure to get a copy of your sources.list file, if you've added any additional repositories.

```
sudo cp /etc/apt/sources.list $HOME/source.list
```

This will create a backup in your user's home folder.

After the OS  has been reinstalled to the "/" (root) partition.

Now you can restore all the packages in use before the OS was reinstalled with this command. I also think is a good idea to get all your OS updates first before install your packages.

```
sudo dpkg --set-selections <$HOME/package.selections && sudo apt-get dselect-upgrade
```

This can possibly take a long time based on the number and size of packages.

---

