---
title: "2.1 Speakers + HDD"
date: 2009-09-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Lazy-buntu on 2009-09-30
I just bought the Logitech S-220 as a cheap solution for speakers [http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16836121014](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16836121014) and I'm worried about damaging my hard drive.

The bundle comes with a small sub-woofer, and I don't want the vibrations to kill my HDD. I read the paperwork that came with the speakers and it doesn't say to keep the sub-woofer X amount of feet away from the case.

I've always been a little paranoid about crashing disks into each other (I don't even like to pick up my laptop when the drive is spinning lol). How are hard drives these days with vibrations? I'm not talking about picking up the computer/laptop and shaking it. You know average laptop use of picking it up and moving it while it's running. More on the topic: placing a small sub-woofer within a foot of the case (but probably 2 feet from the HDD).


Are slight vibrations okay? I know the golden rule is always back things up, but right now I don't have money for a backup solution. Once I get enough spare money do I go for an internal HDD, an external drive, or an internal drive + external enclosure?

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2009-09-30
Hi,
That's not a bad buy for the price. I have a 30 watt 2.1 Altec Lansing speakers, and my subwoofer never hurt my hard drives. I honestly don't think it is powerful enough to hurt my pc. I never blasted my speakers though, but I have made it loud enough to feel a little vibration. I keep my subwoofer on the floor, and my tower sits on my toolbox to keep it off the floor (long story). Anyways, don't keep your sub sitting on your PC tower and you should be fine (unless this is for your laptop).
James.

---

