---
title: "11.10 mounting USB/CDs opens as attachment in new email in Thunderbird"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by toomanymatts on 2011-10-19
So this is a weird one...went up to 11.10 last night on my Dell v13 Vostro.  Install painless enough, some wifi issues, but basically good to go.

This morning I put in a USB thumb drive (called 'Kingston'), a new email in Thunderbird opens up and in the attachment pane on the right is an attachment called Kingston.

Odd, but I write it off as maybe I accidentally dragged and dropped it or something.

Do some stuff, click on the drive icon in the launcher, new email starts, in attachment pane...Kingston.

Later I put in a CD (via usb drive, laptop has no CD drive).  Same thing.  CD called gnomebaker data disk (or whatever the default is) comes up in a new email attachment pane.

Same again with USB hard disk later on.

Anyone else seen this? Any ideas?

- Matt

---

### Post by toomanymatts on 2011-10-19
the plot thickens...so I finished downloading a torrent (ebook) and selected 'show in folder' from the list of options...and the folder appears in a new message in Thunderbird as an attachment.  Close that, do it manually, put it into Calibre, convert it for my Kindle, and same again, select the 'view in folder' option from Calibre - and same again...Thunderbird starts a new message and there is my ebook folder as an attachment in an email.

Super weird.

---

### Post by toomanymatts on 2011-10-22
am I the only one with an issue like this?  It's super odd

---

