---
title: "17.10 minimal server booting into graphics?"
date: 2017-12-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jstateson on 2017-12-08
Returning to ubuntu after absence of 3 years, I installed a USB flash to boot 17.10.  Selected minimum server as all I wanted was to run BOINC app 24/7.  All worked fine for a while with builtin graphics on really cheap motherboard.  Then I added an nVidia board and installed CUDA with the linux drivers downloaded from nVidia.  I followed the instructions and the video board, gtx670, was recognized.  However, when I rebooted the system boots to a "backlit" screen.  ie:  CTRL-ALT-DEL exits momentarily to the purple ubuntu display then the system reboots.  If I hold down shift and select recovery I can log in and observe that BOINC is using the gtx670 on einsteinAThome and also processing a bunch (16) of CPU only tasks,.  I can monitor this server from a windows PC running boinctasks and all seems ok.  I just cannot boot into the server login unless I hold down the shift and select recovery.



Maybe I should have installed a desktop system?  My suspicion is that ubuntu wants to boot into a graphics system?  Maybe it does not know which graphics board to use???   I have my digital monitor connected with a VGA cable to the motherboard but if I switch and use a DVI cable to the GTX670 I do not see anything either.

[EDIT] have some more information

Booting with either DVI on nvidia or analog on VGA makes no difference.

Letting it boot to that "backlit" screen one can see a message about the nouveau driver cannot find something.  Clearly that driver must be enabled even though there is a a file "nvidia-installer-disable-nouveau" in modprobe.d that contains:

blacklist nouveau
options nouveau modset=0

I also noticed that BOINC is actually running w/o any login.  Must have been installed as a service.  However, the nVidia CUDA is not enabled and looking at the BOINC messages I read that the gpu cannot be found.  I am using boinctasks from a windows pc to read those messages.  

Anyway, CTRL-ALT-DEL on the server brings up that ubuntu screen momentarily before the system reboots.  Holding down the shift allows recovery entry and after login in I can observe that the nVidia board is working and so is CUDA and boinc is happy.

How can I stop that nouveau driver and start using the nVidia, or at a minimum continue with the VGA / analog cable direct to the motherboard.

THANKS FOR LOOKING!

---

