---
title: "SWAP issues, hibernation and all that good stuff"
date: 2008-05-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by the8thstar on 2008-05-26
Okay, I created a swap partition using **Gparted** with the LiveCD 8.04. Then I rebooted my laptop and tried to put it into hibermation and it didn't work. It said: "try **swapon -a**". Well, it still didn't work after that.

When I checked the Gnome system monitor, it said that I was using 0 of 0 bytes... I assumed this was a mounting problem and tried to edit **fstab**

This is what I got there:
> 
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=b4e6eff7-9ae6-4ea2-af4b-65aedeee0a6c / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=55346f1c-dca7-43e8-9ef1-9f4a4d5b2d41 /home ext3 relatime 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
/dev/sda3 /media/Vista ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
# Entry for /dev/scd0 :
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sd4 :
UUID=6ff48263-df75-4ca3-aa2d-e575897fbef2 /swap       none            swap    sw              0       0

When I issue **swapon -a**, I get nothing in return. Same with **swapoff -a** by the way.

**Swapon -s** gives me the following output:

> Filename				Type		Size	Used	Priority
/dev/sda4                               partition	4192956	0	-1

So, it's there but nothing happens.

I'm confused. Can someone help me figure this out please?

---

### Post by Paqman on 2008-05-26
I don't think your syntax is correct in fstab. Delete the initial /swap and try it again.

---

### Post by the8thstar on 2008-05-28
Er, could you be a little more precise?

---

### Post by Oldsoldier2003 on 2008-05-28
if /dev/sda4 is your swap you can replace the UUID=6ff48263-df75-4ca3-aa2d-e575897fbef2 with /dev/sda4. 
It looks to me that your UUID is incorrect. you can either replace it withe the /dev/sdaX (as above) or do ```
ls -alh /dev/disk/by-uuid
``` and correct the uuid in your fstab entry for the swap file

---

### Post by plucky on 2008-05-29
> Er, could you be a little more precise? 

This line in fstab

```
UUID=6ff48263-df75-4ca3-aa2d-e575897fbef2 /swap none swap sw 0 0 
```

should look like this 

```
UUID=6ff48263-df75-4ca3-aa2d-e575897fbef2  none swap sw 0 0 
```

But also do what **Oldsoldier2003** wrote,because if your UUID is incorrect,the swap partition will not mount on startup.


To edit your fstab file,open a terminal window and ```
sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.old
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```

This will make a backup copy of your fstab file, after you input your password, in case you make a mistake with the edit. The second command will open the fstab file in sudo mode for you to edit.


Good Luck

---

### Post by the8thstar on 2008-05-29
Thank you all very much. I now have swap activated on my system.

I have one more question to ask in regard to hibernation now. When I choose this option, the system informs me that it's going down the normal way, etc. Nothing to report there.

However, when I hit the power button again, the computer restarts from scratch, with the GRUB screen and all. When I get back to the main desktop screen, the applications that were running prior to hibernation are not recovered (ie they are not running, I have to start them again)

Is this a flaw with Ubuntu, my desktop, my GRUB??? :(

---

