---
title: "9.04:  My cdrom was working, now it's not"
date: 2009-11-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sbelz79 on 2009-11-07
I just recently re-installed ubuntu 9.04 after something got royally screwed up and I couldn't get gnome to boot.  My cdrom was working just fine the other day, now when I insert a cd, it doesn't show up on the desktop like it used to, and I rhythmbox won't recognize it.  When I go to Places>cdrom0, I get the following error message:

Unable to mount cdrom0
mount: block device /dev/sr0 is write-protected, mounting read-only
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/sr0,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so

When I use the command line:
sudo mount /dev/sr0 /media/cdrom0
I get the messages:
mount: block device /dev/sr0 is write-protected, mounting read-only
mount: you must specify the filesystem type

On top of that, when I go to Places>Computer, I get:
Could not display "computer:".
Nautilus cannot handle "computer" locations.

I recently tried to install gdesklets manually, and during the process I had to install a bunch of different packages manually to satisfy dependencies.  These problems seemed to start since then.  Unfortunately, I can't remember all the packages I installed, but here's a couple:
libgtop2
librsvg

Then there were a few other packages upon which librsvg had dependencies that I had to install.  

Any ideas?

---

### Post by sbelz79 on 2009-11-07
so I tried a different disk (I was using an audio cd).  I inserted a dvd and typed "sudo mount /dev/sr0 /media/cdrom0"
I got the message:
mount: block device /dev/sr0 is write-protected, mounting read-only
but the disk mounted successfully.  "cdrom0" showed up on my desktop and I was able to watch the DVD with VLC
And:  Mounting using Gnome by going to Places>cdrom0 worked as well with the DVD.  I tried a different audio CD and it wouldn't work.

---

### Post by lhb1142 on 2009-11-07
Would you consider "wiping" your computer with DBAN < [http://www.dban.org/download](http://www.dban.org/download) > (assuming your computer will recognize a data disc and you can set your computer to start with the CD drive instead of the hard drive)? You may have to burn the DBAN disc on another computer if your computer won't recognize a blank CD-R.

After you 'wipe' it, you will have a completely empty hard drive with no operating system on it.

Then, from a previously downloaded disc < [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download) >, install Ubuntu 9.10 'Karmic Koala.' (You may also have to burn this disc on another computer.)

Check to make sure that your drive will recognize a data CD by putting the Ubuntu Live CD in it and see if it is recognized. If it is recognized, then follow my instructions above.

Of course, before you do any of this, make sure you have backed up everything in your Home Folder to an external hard drive so you can reinstall all of your Documents, Music, Pictures, etc. when you have a properly operating computer.

It's not hard to do all of that though the 'wiping' takes a long time, depending on the size of your hard drive (mine is 160 GB and it takes about five and a half hours - I let DBAN do its 'wiping' overnight.

The clean installation of 'Karmic' takes only an hour or less.

Configuring your computer to your tastes (downloading and installing your program from the Synaptic Package Manager or the Ubuntu Software Center (the new name for the Add/Remove Programs section found in 'Jaunty') and recopying all of your Documents, etc., is what takes the time; figure an afternoon.

Of course, if your CD drive is not working or won't recognize a data CD (including DBAN and/or the Ubuntu Live CD), all the above is moot and you may have to have your computer repaired.

But, if it does, you will be in business.

Best of luck. ):P

---

### Post by sbelz79 on 2009-11-07
I just reinstalled ubuntu and configured it the way I like it, and downloaded a bunch of music that I like, so I'd prefer not to have to do it again.  I'd rather just deal with not being able to use audio cds until I can afford to build a new computer (something I'm currently saving up $$$ for).  Hell, it's faster and less resource intensive to bittorrent an album than it is to rip it from CD- and I can get a whole discography without having to feed discs into my drive.
Plus, I can't get my computer to mount a usb flash drive, so I'm not sure I'd be able to get it to mount an external hard drive in order to backup my files.  I already have my documents and pics backed up at adrive.com, but I'd have to bittorrent all my music and movies (again).

---

### Post by sbelz79 on 2009-11-09
> **lhb1142 said:**
> Would you consider "wiping" your computer with DBAN < [http://www.dban.org/download](http://www.dban.org/download) > (assuming your computer will recognize a data disc and you can set your computer to start with the CD drive instead of the hard drive)? You may have to burn the DBAN disc on another computer if your computer won't recognize a blank CD-R.

After you 'wipe' it, you will have a completely empty hard drive with no operating system on it.


My computer is already set up to boot from my DVD drive first, and then the hard drive if there's not a bootable disk in the optical drive.  
I didn't think of it at first, but today I tried booting from the Ubuntu 9.04 live CD, and I can mount a USB flash drive no problem that way.  And I have full access to all of my media files.  So, if I get an external hard drive to back up all my media, I can do so by booting from the live CD.

I don't think I can burn a CD right now in ubuntu- and I can't do that when I'm running the live CD since I only have one optical drive.  But I can create the DBAN cd on my girlfriend's windows machine, then wipe my hard drive with it and reinstall jaunty (I'm not trying 9.10 until I get a new machine).  I'll still have to reconfigure my machine, which will take a little time, but at least I'll still have my media files.  Thanks for the advice!

---

### Post by sbelz79 on 2009-12-21
I was finally able to get an extenal hard drive, get it working with my computer, which was a huge hassle (it finally worked once I cleaned dust out of my CPU's heatsink for some unknown reason), and nuked my hard drive.  I did a fresh 9.10 install, and now things are working fine.  Except now my HDD is locking up making clicking noises that sound ominously like a death-rattle, so there's that.  But at least by data is backed up and I can just buy a new hard drive.

---

