---
title: "13.10 won't boot"
date: 2013-12-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nirunge on 2013-12-01
13.10 installed successfully, but it won't boot.  What do I do next?  (I've never used ubuntu before.  I'm not even a beginner yet)

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-12-02
Where are you stuck at during the boot process?
Does it just show a blank screen?

---

### Post by kulen19 on 2013-12-10
What happens when you're starting up the computer? The first thing you should try is to enter BIOS and set the partition containing the Ubuntu installed as the first in the boot-order. Good luck!

---

### Post by cessanfrancisco on 2013-12-10
What hardware are you using?

Have you tried just leaving it alone to see if it eventually boots up?  I've read that with some hardware it can take up to 15 minutes to boot.

I have had similar issues after installing 13.10 on a Lenovo Z580 laptop.  Most of the time it boots up fine, but every once in a while it gets hung up on a purple screen, or a black screen with a flashing cursor in the upper left corner.  From my research, in my case, this is a bug with Ubuntu 13.10 and my particular hardware.  So for me, what has worked, is to do a hard reset and try powering on again, until it works.  

I wish I had more info for you.

---

### Post by ernie1972 on 2013-12-12
I have had a similar problem in the past, and all i did was remove a SD card i always have inserted in my laptop, i then reinstalled ubuntu and it booted after that.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-12-12
> **kulen19 said:**
> What happens when you're starting up the computer? The first thing you should try is to enter BIOS and set the partition containing the Ubuntu installed as the first in the boot-order. Good luck!

Start there and to improve your chance of getting help you need to give a LOT more info about what's happening. We are not psychic. ;)

Please provide what you have done to try and fix, at what stage of boot it is hanging (do you get to the menu, choose a kernel, or what/when?) and any error messages you are receiving when it does hang.

---

