---
title: "8.10 sound: firefox, lastfm=good; mp3s in exaile, in virtualbox windows xp=bad"
date: 2008-11-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by JohnGalt131 on 2008-11-05
I installed Intrepid and love it. There is however a problem with sound. If I'm just using firefox all's well. If I use exaile I get the following Results:

Shoutcast Radio=fine
Lastfm    Radio=fine

mp3s=choppy
m4as=choppy

Also, VirtualBox with Winxp (I need it for Ruckus) which sounded great in Hardy sounds choppy.

It seems any local media is choppy and streaming media is fine.
However, the audio in my avi files sounds fine as well as when I watch dvds.

In Hardy there was the issue of deciding which apps had sound and which didn't (ie firefox didn't like to share) so, already Intrepid is way further ahead.
Hopefully this is a setting I can change to fix the problem.

---

### Post by chargersfan420 on 2008-11-13
BUMP!

I'm having the same, if not a similar problem.

Was running Hardy (64bit) just fine, everything worked great.  Now i'm on a fresh install of Intrepid (64bit).

Audio works when i have Autodetect in Sound Preferences (after a reboot only, and it even makes the Ubuntu startup sounds choppy), and when i select ALSA (although when i press the Test button, the first second is a skip).  No other options here give me sound.

With ALSA selected, Totem sometimes plays music, and sometimes claims to be playing but no sound comes out.  With Autodetect, Totem plays sound normally.  With either option, the visualization is horribly choppy, and makes a strobe light effect.  Repositioning the window doesn't move the visualization pane for a couple of seconds, and the visualization pane will overlap other windows, even if they are on top of Totem.

Any media player i use in VirtualBox (WinXP) will cause the sound to skip exactly every 5 seconds.  This also includes using flash to watch youtube videos.  I've tried all of the sound options for VirtualBox and they all give the same result. 

I have also recompiled ALSA a few times by following [these instructions]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=870681&page=15") (post 146), which may be fairly specific to my laptop... but not the exact same model.

I have no idea what to try next.  Any help would be greatly appreciated!

---

