---
title: ".sh install not working"
date: 2013-09-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by chrissie-c-l on 2013-09-19
Hi,
I have a .sh file for Mathematica from my school in my home directory.  I gave it executable permissions, and am trying to run it.  
I type
sudo ./Mathematica_9.0.1_LINUX.sh
it prompts me for my password.  I give it.  Very quickly it gives me a new terminal line and nothing else happens.  No error messages, no installation.

---

### Post by whitesmith on 2013-09-19
Post permissions for the file by running this from a terminal in the containing directory: ```
ls -lat Math*.*
```. Maybe an error message is flashing by too quickly for you to see. Also, why are you running as sudo? Is it owned by root?

---

### Post by chrissie-c-l on 2013-09-19
-rwx--x--x 1 christina christina 0 Sep 18 21:06 Mathematica_9.0.1_LINUX.sh  

I used sudo because that seemed like that was what people used when they were trying to install things.  Nothing different happens when I leave out sudo except for it never prompts me for my password.

---

### Post by whitesmith on 2013-09-19
In general sudo should only be used for "administrative" tasks, like installing a program. Your group permissions differ from your owner permissions. Make group permissions = owner and you should be OK. In other words:  ```
chmod 774 Mathematica_9.0.1_LINUX.sh
``` gives read, write and execute to owner and group, and limits all others to read. The numbers are octal. Does this make any sense at all?

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-09-19
Any error message should remain visible in the terminal (you started it from a terminal, right?) There is no error message, so the script runs. It just doesn't give any output, which is strange. What is the script supposed to do?

And I don't think the group permissions matter at all.

For your interest, this explains why we sometimes use sudo: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)
It is usually to write in system directories. As long as you stay at home, you don't need it.

---

### Post by chrissie-c-l on 2013-09-19
Thanks.  So what are the distinctions between user, group, and other if it is a personal computer with only one user? 

 I just realized that in trying to be concise I left out something important.  I do not currently have Mathematica.  I am under the assumption that when I get this to successfully work, it will be installed, since I downloaded the file from my school's software distribution site.  So this is a 1.9 GB file.

---

### Post by whitesmith on 2013-09-19
If files (applications, probably) referenced by the script don't exist then the script isn't going to work. You did not mention this in your original post. Also group permissions *do* matter or they wouldn't be there. For an explanation of these concepts you might download and read *ubuntupocketguide-v1-1.pdf*.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-09-20
The group permissions handle the case when the user is not the owner of the file but is a member of the group of the file. In this case, the group of the file by default only contains the owner of the file, so in this particular case the group permissions are irrelevant.

But now that I read that output from ls -l again, the file size is 0 bytes. This explains everything. The script is empty. I checked, this does not give an error message. It seems that copying the script to your computer went wrong.

---

### Post by chrissie-c-l on 2013-09-22
I believe I didn't have enough open hard drive space.  It is now working.  Thanks for all your replies anyway.

---

