---
title: "2 issues with upgrade"
date: 2009-04-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by 4me on 2009-04-29
1) under "System", I no longer have a 'shut down' drop down....I only have 5 categories:  Preferences, Administration, help and support, about gnome, about ubuntu.    any ideas here?

2) my nvidia graphics card can't be enabled (like the last update).  I assume something will come along here eventually (like last time).   but are there any solutions now?

---

### Post by Spiritous on 2009-04-29
Shutdown is moved to the right top, where your username is...

Probably your graphics card is very old or very new...

---

### Post by Didius Falco on 2009-04-29
> **4me said:**
> 1) under "System", I no longer have a 'shut down' drop down....I only have 5 categories:  Preferences, Administration, help and support, about gnome, about ubuntu.    any ideas here?

2) my nvidia graphics card can't be enabled (like the last update).  I assume something will come along here eventually (like last time).   but are there any solutions now?

1. That's been removed. It's under the User Fast Switcher now. It's also available to add to a panel if you want, but it won't take long to get used to it in the UFS.

2. What kind of nVidia card do you have?

---

### Post by 4me on 2009-04-29
I can't find the where my Nvidia card is.....it shows up in 

System > admin > hardware drivers  as

Nvidia accelerated graphics (version 180)

in my:

applications > graphics 

I have nothing.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-04-29
Post the output of:

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

### Post by Didius Falco on 2009-04-29
Open a terminal window and type 

```
lspci
``` and look at the output for "VGA compatible controller".

Mine shows up close to the bottom of the output.

On Edit: Kansasnoobs way is better - it filters the output. I'm just lazy enough that I'd rather move my eyes than my fingers. <G>

---

### Post by 4me on 2009-04-29
nVidia Corporation G86M [GeForce 8400M GT]

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-04-29
Appears to be supported by "nvidia-glx-173" which is in the repos.

---

### Post by 4me on 2009-04-29
how do I get what I need?

---

### Post by Didius Falco on 2009-04-29
open a Terminal window and type ```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-173
```

---

### Post by creat0r on 2009-04-29
what version of ubuntu do you have? your graphics driver should work if you have all the updates or upgrades for ubuntu.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-04-29
Well, read this all! **Better yet print it!** Do not proceed until you've made notes and know exactly what you're doing!

First of all re-enable Ctrl > Alt > Bckspc to restart X by going to terminal and running:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

You want to add the lines shown below in **bold print**:

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

[B]Section "ServerFlags"
        Option          "DontZap" "false"
EndSection [/B]


Then save & file > quit! And try it! You should be able to restart X requiring you log in again.

Then go to terminal and run:

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-173
```

Then actually restart your computer, if all goes well you can smile and that's it! If not you'll need to restart X and drop to a cli shell to run the command:

```
startx -- -ignoreABI
```

Then remove the nvidia-glx-173 driver:

```
sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx-173
```

Then when you restart you should be back where you began!

No guarantee though! I don't have identical hardware to test that on!

---

### Post by 4me on 2009-04-29
this is what i get:

Package nvidia-glx-173 is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
is only available from another source
However the following packages replace it:
  nvidia-glx-180 nvidia-glx-173
E: Package nvidia-glx-173 has no installation candidate

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-04-30
Are you not running Jaunty?

It's in the Jaunty repos!

---

