---
title: "22.04 LTS boots to GRUB &amp; and then black screen.  UUID issue?"
date: 2023-08-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nh2023 on 2023-08-03
[SIZE=3]**Background:**[/SIZE]

I have been running exclusively (not a dual-boot) Ubuntu 22.04 LTS on my desktop computer for about a year (Installed, I think, via USB.), but I truly do not understand anything going on "under the hood."  My knowledge/capability heretofore extends to copy+paste-ing commands into the Terminal.  I have had no issues since installation until the past week. 

 I foolishly have no backup for the desktop and although I don't stand to lose anything "Critical", it would be "Exceedingly Annoying & Inconvenient".

GPU:  GeForce GTX 1660 Super

[SIZE=3]**The Issue:**[/SIZE]

When I turn on my computer, it boots to the GNU GRUB menu.  If it times out (or I select the "Ubuntu" option), the screen turns black indefinitely. 
During my troubleshooting (see below), I found the message ```
 ALERT!  UUID=4bd03829-29-ae-475d-8666-8d1835319b49 does not exist.  Dropping to a shell!" 
```
 
I found this thread on the forum ([https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2482195](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2482195)) that links to a possible solution ([https://support.system76.com/articles/bootloader/](https://support.system76.com/articles/bootloader/)), but A) the terminal error message this person received slightly differed & B) It's complicated and I don't understand all of the different options.  I'm not sure if my drive is encrypted, so I'll cross that bridge when I get there.

**My Questions:**

1) Is the above a viable potential solution?
2)My troubleshooting seems to indicate that I have an EFI boot, so given that I should use the code under the "EFI Boot - Ubuntu"? I know this is a super stupid question, but there are so many sub-headers and options that I'm confused.
3) If yes, what parts of the following do I change?
```

for i in dev dev/pts proc sys run; do sudo mount -B /$i /mnt/$i; done
sudo cp -n /etc/resolv.conf /mnt/etc/
sudo chroot /mnt
apt install --reinstall grub-efi-amd64 linux-generic linux-headers-generic
update-initramfs -c -k all
update-grub
```
4) Do I enter each line one-by-one in the terminal?

[SIZE=3]**Possible Causes:**[/SIZE]

For the past week my HDMI audio was not being recognized as a device (plugging headphones into the audio jack did work).  After trying a whole bunch of solutions, last night I tried selecting a different version of my nvidia driver (probably 535-->525), which apparently had updated on July 27th, which is when I think the issue had started.  My system rebooted and sound worked!  Eventually I turned off the computer and when I tried to turn it back on today it wouldn't boot.

[SIZE=3]**My attempted troubleshooting (included in case I IDed the wrong problem):**[/SIZE]

To the extent that my limited abilities allow, I have tried to troubleshoot as detailed on [this page]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/BlankScreen").

If I edit the Ubuntu command option by removing "quiet splash", my computer screen freezes on the message "EFI stub: UEFI Secure Boot is enabled".  I tried multiple boots where I removed different lines from the command, but to no avail.

If I select "Advanced options for Ubuntu"
- Selecting the first two options do not work.  The first leads to a blank screen.  The second (recovery mode) gets stuck on the message "Loading initial ramdisk...." with the message "EFI: UEFI secure boot is enabled" superimposed at the top of the screen.
- If I select the nvidia, or "generic" options, the following output, which was displayed whenever I booted up even when ubuntu was working, is shown:
```

[    0.472796] blacklist:  Problem blacklisting hash (-13)
[    0.472800] blacklist:  Problem blacklisting hash (-13)
[    0.472820] blacklist:  Problem blacklisting hash (-13)
[    0.472836] blacklist:  Problem blacklisting hash (-13)
[    0.472857] blacklist:  Problem blacklisting hash (-13)
[    0.472871] blacklist:  Problem blacklisting hash (-13)
```
- Then the ubuntu logo briefly flashes on screen before a long pause.  Eventually I receive the following message  (the recovery versions are the same, minus the ubuntu logo, plus more terminal output flashing by):

```

Gave up waiting for root file system device.  Common problems:
- Boot args (cat /proc/cmdline)
   - Check rootdelay= (did the system wait long enough?)
- Missing modules (cat /proc/modules; ls /dev)
ALERT!  UUID=4bd03829-29-ae-475d-8666-8d1835319b49 does not exist.  Dropping to a shell!
```
- I am then left at what looks like a command line interface, except the bit on the left says "(initframfs)"

---

### Post by nh2023 on 2023-08-04
I was able to figure out and implement the potential solution...it didn't work.  Below stuff is from a USB live boot (that's probably obvious but idk I don't understand this stuff).

I also tried the solution here ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)) and perhaps ill-advisedly ran it without consulting anyone first. Some of the paste-commands threw errors.  No improvement.  I then ran the diagnostic summary again--the pastebin is here: [https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/v9GY4w7Vw2/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/v9GY4w7Vw2/)

I found this thread ([https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2479761](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2479761)).  Here are the results when I do the fsck and parted command things.
```

root@ubuntu:~# sudo fsck /dev/nvme0n1p1
fsck from util-linux 2.37.2
fsck.fat 4.2 (2021-01-31)
/dev/nvme0n1p1: 13 files, 2423/130812 clusters

root@ubuntu:~# sudo fsck /dev/nvme0n1p2
fsck from util-linux 2.37.2
e2fsck 1.46.5 (30-Dec-2021)
/dev/nvme0n1p2 is mounted.
e2fsck: Cannot continue, aborting.


root@ubuntu:~# sudo parted -ls
............................
Model: WDC PC SN530 SDBPNPZ-1T00-1006 (nvme)
Disk /dev/nvme0n1: 1024GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: gpt
Disk Flags: 

Number  Start   End     Size    File system  Name                  Flags
 1      1049kB  538MB   537MB   fat32        EFI System Partition  boot, esp
 2      538MB   1024GB  1024GB  ext4

```

Finally, I checked the "/boot/grub/grub.cfg" file.  The UUID number matches what comes up when I do the blkid command
```

root@ubuntu:~# blkid
/dev/nvme0n1p1: UUID="186C-1889" BLOCK_SIZE="512" TYPE="vfat" PARTLABEL="EFI System Partition" PARTUUID="bc949f57-62e6-45ac-a1c3-60bf604b4d86"
/dev/nvme0n1p2: UUID="4bd03829-29ae-475d-8666-8d1835319b49" BLOCK_SIZE="4096" TYPE="ext4" PARTUUID="f8b873a8-1fb2-46f6-8982-2b34fd04a58e"
/dev/sda1: BLOCK_SIZE="2048" UUID="2023-02-23-04-13-44-00" LABEL="Ubuntu 22.04.2 LTS amd64" TYPE="iso9660" PARTLABEL="ISO9660" PARTUUID="a0891d7e-b930-4513-94d8-f629dbd637b2"
/dev/loop1: TYPE="squashfs"
/dev/loop8: TYPE="squashfs"
/dev/loop6: TYPE="squashfs"
/dev/loop4: TYPE="squashfs"
/dev/loop2: TYPE="squashfs"
/dev/loop0: TYPE="squashfs"
/dev/loop7: TYPE="squashfs"
/dev/sda4: LABEL="writable" UUID="bfad6799-144a-49c1-8f20-35698ba597a9" BLOCK_SIZE="4096" TYPE="ext4" PARTUUID="8b358b56-fd48-494e-bb00-05d2f789bffd"
/dev/sda2: SEC_TYPE="msdos" LABEL_FATBOOT="ESP" LABEL="ESP" UUID="F7DB-4D56" BLOCK_SIZE="512" TYPE="vfat" PARTLABEL="Appended2" PARTUUID="a0891d7e-b930-4513-94db-f629dbd637b2"
/dev/loop5: TYPE="squashfs"
/dev/loop3: TYPE="squashfs"
/dev/sda3: PARTLABEL="Gap1" PARTUUID="a0891d7e-b930-4513-94da-f629dbd637b2"

```

---

### Post by yancek on 2023-08-04
The messages shows the partition is mounted and fsck (filesystem check) will not run on a mounted system so unmount it before running fsck.

```
umount /dev/nvme0n1p2  
```

I don't think fsck will provide a solution as the problem is it cannot find the specified UUID.

The correct UUID shows in /boot/grub/grub.cfg, the grub.cfg file in /boot/efi/EFI/ubuntu as well as in the /etc/fstab file.

Do you have an option in the BIOS to boot from EFI file?  If so, look for the file shimx64.efi and select it.  Have you tried booting with 
Secure Boot off?

---

### Post by tea for one on 2023-08-04
> **nh2023 said:**
>  I foolishly have no backup for the desktop and although I don't stand to lose anything "Critical", it would be "Exceedingly Annoying & Inconvenient".
As you have booted into a live session, why not take the opportunity to backup your data?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2023-08-04
Did you at some point also do an UEFI firmware update?
That resets UEFI to defaults & you normally have to directly boot into UEFI and redo your UEFI changes.
One typical change is to turn off UEFI Secure Boot.

One issue seems to be nVidia.
With UEFI Secure Boot on, you have to leap thru hoops to verify that it is secure. Ubuntu cannot verify it since binary blob. An owner/user can verify any software by creating his own MOK key  (Machine Owner Key). With Secure Boot on & nVidia the user must create the MOK.
For most users easier to just turn off UEFI Secure Boot. In future we may need it, but currently it does not really add much in the way of security.

Also if you change a driver, like the nVidia driver, you must purge old driver, or you get conflicts. Install of a new driver does not uninstall old.
If wrong nVidia driver or upgrade, you must purge & install correct driver
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1478024/how-do-i-install-an-arbitrary-proprietary-nvidia-gpu-driver-on-ubuntu-studio-22](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1478024/how-do-i-install-an-arbitrary-proprietary-nvidia-gpu-driver-on-ubuntu-studio-22)
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2362351&p=13649946#post13649946](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2362351&p=13649946#post13649946)
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2380061](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2380061)
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2362351](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2362351)

---

### Post by nh2023 on 2023-08-04
[SIZE=3]**UPDATE: **[/SIZE]I tried more of the boot modes and the OEM one actually boots the system.  Unfortunately...sound (the original issue) is off again it seems based on some searching that OEM isn't intended to be what you use long term?


> The messages shows the partition is mounted and fsck (filesystem check)  will not run on a mounted system so unmount it before running fsck.
I have done that now and here is the result:
```

fsck from util-linux 2.37.2
e2fsck 1.46.5 (30-Dec-2021)
/dev/nvme0n1p2: clean, 553585/62480384 files, 25399365/249919744 blocks

```

> Do you have an option in the BIOS to boot from EFI file?  If so, look  for the file shimx64.efi and select it.  Have you tried booting with 
Secure Boot off?
I tried booting from the shimx64.efi and the result was the same as regular booting.  I have disabled Secure Boot, but this has not improved the outcome.

> As you have booted into a live session, why not take the opportunity to backup your data?         
I  now have to the extent that I can!

> Did you at some point also do an UEFI firmware update?
Not to my knowledge.

> 
Also if you change a driver, like the nVidia driver, you must purge old  driver, or you get conflicts. Install of a new driver does not uninstall  old.
If wrong nVidia driver or upgrade, you must purge & install correct driver

I will keep that in mind in the future...I didn't do that &#128517;



At this point should I be looking to do a fresh install and hope that all these problems are resolved?

---

### Post by tea for one on 2023-08-04
> **nh2023 said:**
> [SIZE=3]**UPDATE: **[/SIZE]I tried more of the boot modes and the OEM one actually boots the system.  Unfortunately...sound (the original issue) is off again it seems based on some searching that OEM isn't intended to be what you use long term?
As your OEM kernel boots successfully, then this thread is somewhat redundant?
If you do not have sound, perhaps start a new thread?
Do you have sound when using the live session?

Now, to satisfy my curiosity, how did you manage to acquire such a variety of kernels?
[COLOR="#0000FF"]Lines 148 -174[/COLOR] shows oem, azure, aws, nvidia low-latency etc.
Quite a collection - somewhat unusual.

---

### Post by nh2023 on 2023-08-05
> 
Now, to satisfy my curiosity, how did you manage to acquire such a variety of kernels?
I have no clue.  Obviously I've tried a fair few solutions, but they (the kernels) were all there in the advanced options before I tried any.

> As your OEM kernel boots successfully, then this thread is somewhat redundant?
It feels quite mystifying why the default boot still doesn't work and only one of the options does.  Plus, maybe I don't understand these things, but is the OEM boot intended for actual use?  
And it's annoying that I have to select a specific boot option whenever I start up.  
Would just reinstalling ubuntu solve this and the sound problem?  
> Do you have sound when using the live session?
Yes, no issues.

---

### Post by tea for one on 2023-08-05
> **nh2023 said:**
> Plus, maybe I don't understand these things, but is the OEM boot intended for actual use? 
Generally, yes, it should be fine. The kernel should be "tuned" to the hardware by the vendor.
Sound should work but, in your case, it's giving you a problem.
If the PC is newish, have you contacted the vendor?
> Would just reinstalling ubuntu solve this and the sound problem?  
Yes, quite probably.
I hesitate to say "definitely" because the presence of all those kernels is something I've never seen.

Can you tell us more about the PC?
Have a look at the system-info script [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2475931](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2475931)

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-08-06
If after either downloading the script or installing it from a PPA, if your start it up like this:
```

# If downloaded as a script
./system-info --details
# If installed as a package from the PPA
system-info --details

```
That would show more detail, such as what the BIOS says the Computer is, the BIOS and BIOS version... As well as turning on the details of the sound section to help diagnose his sound problem.

I am also curious what he has going on. Very odd.

---

