---
title: "12.04 panel?"
date: 2012-04-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2012-04-26
In my new 12.04 the panel remains stationary, no slide in or out. This

takes up more screen than I like. I liked the way it was in 11.10 better.

Why did they do this? I found a work around that lets me do full screen here.. is there a better idea?

[http://www.webupd8.org/2012/04/real-window-dodge-unity-launcher.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2012/04/real-window-dodge-unity-launcher.html)

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2012-04-26
You can make the launcher (panel?) auto hide in the system settings. Be aware that if you do that you may also need to tweak the sensitivity. You make the launcher appear by pushing the mouse pointer against the edge of the screen.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2012-04-26
> **alphacrucis2 said:**
> You can make the launcher (panel?) auto hide in the system settings. Be aware that if you do that you may also need to tweak the sensitivity. You make the launcher appear by pushing the mouse pointer against the edge of the screen.

+1 used this for a while now. Works great. :)

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2012-04-27
Where in system settings? 

Actually the way I have it now using the above download, is not bad, if I maxamize the screen the panel disappears, and vice versa.

---

### Post by TREESofRIGHTEOUSNESS on 2012-04-27
System Settings -> Appearance

change to the "Behavior" Tab

You'll see "Auto Hide Launcher"

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2012-04-27
> **rosswmcgee said:**
> Where in system settings? 

Actually the way I have it now using the above download, is not bad, if I maxamize the screen the panel disappears, and vice versa.
If you have installed that script, then changing in System Settings won't do anything. I suggest you keep your settings.

...*WHY SHUTTLEWORTH??? Precise is filled with great ideas, except for this one of yours which removed dodging windows for the Launcher.*

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-04-27
Try Appearance > Behavior for Unity 2D. System Settings can be found from dash, the gear icon on the top right, or by right clicking the desktop and selecting change background .    

For Unity 3D additional panel settings are in the CCSM - Unity Plug-in like 11.10 . You can also install Myunity or Ubuntu Tweak to adjust the settings. The first is in the software center.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-04-27
> **zombifier25 said:**
> ...*WHY SHUTTLEWORTH??? Precise is filled with great ideas, except for this one of yours which removed dodging windows for the Launcher.*

I like Dodge Windows, but I heard that it was removed because it failed new user testing. (people unfamiliar with Ubuntu got confused when the Launcher wasn't there) Still it should have been retained as an option, if not the default.

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2012-04-27
> **3rdalbum said:**
> I like Dodge Windows, but I heard that it was removed because it failed new user testing. (people unfamiliar with Ubuntu got confused when the Launcher wasn't there) Still it should have been retained as an option, if not the default.
Agreed. I'm not angry at the default option for the Launcher's behavior, I'm angry at **the decision to remove that option completely instead of keeping it.**

---

### Post by codingman on 2012-04-27
I'm using MyUnity just fine, CCSM burns my desktop bad.

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2012-04-27
You are probably right, this way the panel is there when you need to move between

a spreadsheet, or text document, and gone when you do not need it. Perhaps the 

whole thing would be a moot point if

Shuttleworth had left the panel at the top or bottom as an option. For the 

folks who opted out of Ubuntu this was a big issue. It seems that the Ubuntu 

folks stuck to their guns for larger purpose and were willing to see a drop in 

the user ship. I have learned to like it for several reasons, Unity for example.

OK played around with the settings, and you were right I like the download settings better.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-04-29
> **rosswmcgee said:**
> For the 

folks who opted out of Ubuntu this was a big issue. It seems that the Ubuntu 

folks stuck to their guns for larger purpose and were willing to see a drop in 

the user ship.

The whole "That's it, I'm moving to Arch/Fedora!" meme is mostly an empty threat. I remember hearing those grumblings on the release of Ubuntu 6.06; I can't remember what the pet issue was about, but I suspect it may have been the change of colour scheme from brown to orange.

Since them I've heard grumblings about "They've changed it, now I'm moving back to Windows / to Arch / to Fedora" about Network Manager, Pulseaudio, changing the X kill key combination, the change in theme to purple, changing the window buttons to the left side, and even introducing those lovely notify-osd notifications. Heck, I even grumbled once about dropping official PowerPC support for Mac users - therefore I know that it's usually an empty threat.

When the next inevitable change occurs to the Linux desktop (maybe when Wayland is on the default install) everyone will say "Ubuntu 11.10 was the best, why did they have to mess it up in later versions? I'm moving to Fedora!".

---

