---
title: "11.10 hangs @ boot"
date: 2012-04-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gordonfan24 on 2012-04-19
I'm a total noob with Ubuntu. Ever since I did the updates after initial install, it's been hanging up @ boot.
System specs:
EVGA 780iSLI/1200W PSU
C2Q Q9550 @ 3.78GHz
EVGA GTX470 SLI
C: Internal drive 2X WD 150GB Raptor in RAID Stripe w/ W7 Ultimate 64 bit
F: Internal drive Storage 500GB
G: External USB drive Storage/Ubuntu install point 1TB

I've tried all I know so far. I've used the Gentoo minimal install disc 'boot-repair-disc' with no change. I have no idea what to do in recovery mode either. I took a pic of where it hangs. 
Should I uninstall from the G: USB drive and reinstall on F:?
[[IMG]http://img18.imageshack.us/img18/3293/020ehu.jpg[/IMG]]("http://imageshack.us/photo/my-images/18/020ehu.jpg/")

---

### Post by josephmills on 2012-04-19
Looks like it is crashing when gui is going to start aka lightdm the display manager I am guessing that this has to do with the gfx card try this when it hangs press ctrl+alt+f1 
sign in 
then do a 
```
lspci -nn | grep VGA
```
take picture and up load we are also going to want to see a
```
lsmod
```

thanks 

Joseph

---

### Post by gordonfan24 on 2012-04-19
Thanks for the speedy assistance Joseph. Here are the requested images.
[IMG]http://img23.imageshack.us/img23/1016/020uv.jpg[/IMG]
By [gordonfan247]("http://profile.imageshack.us/user/gordonfan247") at 2012-04-19
[IMG]http://img820.imageshack.us/img820/6519/021xt.jpg[/IMG]
By [gordonfan247]("http://profile.imageshack.us/user/gordonfan247") at 2012-04-19

---

### Post by josephmills on 2012-04-19
Bingo was his name oh 
Press Enter when asked to and also press y when asked 
do the same thing ok but ctrl+alt+f1 signin ...


then 
```

sudo add-apt-repository  **ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates** 
```then 
press ente
```

sudo apt-get update 

```then 
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current 
```then reboot does it work now ? 


Joseph

---

### Post by gordonfan24 on 2012-04-19
B-I-N-G-O...get this though, I went to reboot to follow thru with your second set of instructions and it booted. I said hmmmm, let's see if it was an anomaly or was I just imagining things. Sure enough on the second reboot it hung up.
I therefore followed your instructions and it booted with no issues. I sincerely appreciate your assistance in this matter Joseph. I'll be back I'm sure.

---

