---
title: "11.10 Oneiric - Lost in Java Jungle ref Moneydance!"
date: 2011-11-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-11-05
_**The problem:**_  Moneydance, having run quite happily in all Ubuntu distro’s including 11.04 Natty, suddenly won’t open in Oneiric.
My Solution: Laptop is dual-boot. I boot into Windows-7 and run Moneydance from there. I don’t like it but one bit, but am heavily dependent on the program.

**_Notes on what I’ve tried in my Journey:_** 
First I identified the problem outlined here: [http://help.infinitekind.com/discussions/bugs/402-moneydance-refuses-to-launch-in-ubuntu-1110](http://help.infinitekind.com/discussions/bugs/402-moneydance-refuses-to-launch-in-ubuntu-1110)

The man who posted the query understands more of all this than I ever can.

_I then tried_ to update 11.10 to the latest java from here:  [http://askubuntu.com/questions/52154/how-do-i-install-the-latest-version-of-sun-java](http://askubuntu.com/questions/52154/how-do-i-install-the-latest-version-of-sun-java)
[I][U]
but the main detailed answer simply doesn’t work[/U][/I]. I got this msg: “W: GPG error: [http://ppa.launchpad.net](http://ppa.launchpad.net) oneiric Release: The following signatures couldn't be verified because the public key is not available: NO_PUBKEY B725097B3ACC3965”

So I couldn’t understand why a solution was posted which doesn’t work!

So I’m thoroughly lost in this Jungle and would much appreciate a helping hand to guide me.
Reverting to Windows is a sorry state of affairs but at least it works and that’s all I want any program to do!

---

### Post by davdo2004 on 2011-11-05
The removal of sun java from the partner repo in Ubuntu 11.10 has caused quite a few problems. The open jdk and icedtea plugin simply don't work for a lot of sites such as some banking sites, pogo games and possibly others.
I installed sun java from the following ppa....
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ferramroberto/java 
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jdk sun-java6-plugin

---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-11-05
> **davdo2004 said:**
> The removal of sun java from the partner repo in Ubuntu 11.10 has caused quite a few problems. The open jdk and icedtea plugin simply don't work for a lot of sites such as some banking sites, pogo games and possibly others.
I installed sun java from the following ppa....
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ferramroberto/java 
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jdk sun-java6-plugin

Yup! =D>

Everything working fine, when I did this thro' command line! :)

After doing the java I installed moneydance through this link:
[http://moneydance.com/download/2011/installers/moneydance_no_java.deb]("http://moneydance.com/download/2011/installers/moneydance_no_java.deb")

Everything hunky-dory now, and many thanks, Sir!

---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-11-06
One strange footnote to this saga:
I upgraded another machine from 11.04 to 11.10
and the Moneydance program continued working fine.
That's computers for you, I guess!

---

### Post by mick222 on 2011-11-08
Sun java was already installed on the other computer it wouldn't be removed in the upgrade process

---

