---
title: "12.0 2 completely freezes 2 min after boot"
date: 2012-05-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tbsexton on 2012-05-23
This is my first experience with Linux;I was fed up with windows boot time and thought I'd try Ubuntu. I have a Gateway FX laptop with an Nvidia 8800 GTS GPU. 

I originally made a bootable USB flash drive to try it out, and everything worked beautifully pre-installation. Then, from this boot, I partitioned a secondary hard disk (made for RAID but I'm using it as a secondary boot disk) and formatted one partition to ext4. Then I installed Ubuntu 12.04 onto this secondary drive via the Ubuntu GUI from the USB boot. 

Except now, when I boot using the secondary drive, I have about 2 min to log in or start programs before everything completely freezes, including keyboard shortcuts for the terminal or reboot. The mouse still moves, but that's it. 

What can I do?

---

### Post by UsmanKhan on 2012-05-23
First try to boot into ubuntu by Ubuntu 2d(unity 2d) in the login manager. and see if this problem still occurs. If not then it might be due to compiz(a decorative window manger) or your Graphic Drivers.

Have you installed the proprietary graphic drivers of Nvidia. if not install them by going to the Ubuntu lens button and search additional drivers. 
Also see if u have updated you system. ( ALL this provided if your system runs in the ubuntu 2d version).

---

### Post by tbsexton on 2012-05-23
Thanks for the reply.

The 2d version is still freezing. I did some research and tried installing a gnome ui from the command line (alt +ctrl+F1 before freezing). The install was successful was successful but the freeze problem persisted. Then I tried to get a list of drivers via the command line using a jockey-text --list command. It listed two nvidia drivers, one enabled and one called "current updates" that was disabled. However, a jockey-text --enable=[DRIVERNAME] command failed. 

I really don't know if any of that means anything, I've just been trying everything I could find on Google. 

Thanks for the help, and please let me know what else I can do.

---

### Post by mosaic2s on 2012-05-23
Try 10.04.4 on the same setup.

I am using 12.04 but 10.04.4 LTS was much better in speed and had far lesser hardware issues.

---

### Post by UsmanKhan on 2012-05-23
Well it will help if u provide the list of all your hardware.:)

I also second installing a previous version or other DE like xubuntu (XFCE) or try Linux mint.

---

