---
title: "12.04 Huawei  E353 connection issues"
date: 2012-06-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gorrion on 2012-06-18
Yes, well, against my wishes someone went and got this..device.

They were running 11.04 and I was figuring I'll eventually have to upgrade them to 12.04 so why not now ?  I got the LiveCD and started it up and then plugged in the stick and it asked for the info I provided it and..:
 it worked (Now, I'm wondering if this is why I'm having issues ?) 
I did wonder if it would work on his current setup.  It did but 
then after a restart it stopped working.  
Going back to the LiveCD and it worked again.  I installed from the LiveCD and well besides a few issues it worked.
Turned it off, unplugged it turned it on plugged it in didn't work.  
Restart and it still didn't work.
Restart into a live environment and it did work yet again.  I'd screwed up the partition, keyring issues, and a few other missteps and I reinstalled.
Finish and reboot and it works again.  Turn off and on again and it works.
Next day turn on without the computer plugged into the wall and it doesn't work.  Plug it in still nothing boot to LiveCD left it on for a few hours (Damn SSBB) reboot and it works again.
Next day doesn't work.  Turn it off, unplug the dongle, remove the SIM card, put it all back together turn it on and it works.
Today turn it on doesn't work, turn it off for a bit, back on again and it works.

This is not an optimal solution....

[http://techotopia.com/images/c/c9/Ubuntu_11_unity_network_menu.jpg](http://techotopia.com/images/c/c9/Ubuntu_11_unity_network_menu.jpg) = How it looks like when not working.
When it is I think it says it's connected to a wired device.  It's all in a language I can't read so that's just a guess.

lsusb returned
Bus 002 Device 004: ID 12d1:14db Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
Rebooted a few times till it worked again and the output is
Bus 002 Device 003: ID 12d1:14db Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
I'm guessing that small change is very important ?

I've looked around tried something called insmod didn't work heard should try modprobe didn't do anything tried sakis3g says it fails it can switch it though although I'm guessing it's already been switched at one point throughout this ordeal I think  it did not and there was a HiLink icon on the desktop and there was a Linux browser with a linux folder and some install script ?  Not sure what the heck HiLink was so I didn't touch it maybe I should have ?
Also, I've seen a bunch of scripts online but they  specifically said for 10.XX or 11.XX or they were talking about the stick being detected as wan2 ?  Mine seems to be  eth1 (Which by the way eth0 is DOWN, which I would expect nothing is plugged into it eth3 is DORMANT (Not sure what this "device" is ?) and eth1 is UNKNOWN is that normal ?) ? Does that change the dynamics ?  If I unplugged it it showed up in "$ ip addr show" as renamed5.  Other search results  talked about /dev/ttyUSB* but I don't see anything like that when I look in my /dev directory.  Even when the device is in fact working

Thanks for reading my terribly worded post.  Any help would be greatly appreciated.  If anything is required be sure to let me know.

---

