---
title: "12.04 Unity Programs"
date: 2012-05-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cfbmoo1 on 2012-05-03
So I decided to give Unity a serious try and I've been doing some searches to find specific things but now I want to browse my entire list of programs. How do I do that and is there any way to tell the search thingy to stop showing me stuff available for download? I thought that was what the software center was for?

---

### Post by r-senior on 2012-05-03
MyUnity allows you to stop the display of items for download. It's available in Software Centre.

To see all your installed programs, open the dash and go to the applications lens. (Or press super-a). Next to the title for 'Installed' there is a link to show more items. Maximizing the dash helps gives you a better view.

---

### Post by Rodney9 on 2012-05-03
In the Software Centre there is a Tab called 'Installed'

Click on it and it will show everything installed by category.

Rodney

---

### Post by Henkdroid on 2012-05-03
If you click on 'Dash Home' then the 'Applications' Lens, the one with the ruler, the pencil and the paintbrush, and click 'Filter results' and then 'sources'. You can choose there whether you see apps available for download. You can also browse through all your applications under the applications lens

---

### Post by cfbmoo1 on 2012-05-03
Ok I hit Super A and got the thingy up. I saw there was a filter in the corner and was able to shut off non-local aps. I then selected every app type and it dumped a whole mess of icons on the search area. I started filtering by games, internet, etc and it seems to be mixing things up nicely between the different categories.

I just realized the filter buttons stick so I had both games and Internet selected. This is really messy. :confused:

---

### Post by cfbmoo1 on 2012-05-03
> **Rodney9 said:**
> In the Software Centre there is a Tab called 'Installed'

Click on it and it will show everything installed by category.

Rodney

Yeah but I don't go to the software center to launch programs. It'd be like where I go to launch programs showing me stuff from the software center.

---

### Post by cfbmoo1 on 2012-05-17
I gave up on Unity.. I wiped my drive and put Xubuntu in and now I have a normal system. My laptop is useable again with an actual programs menu. :popcorn:

---

