---
title: "12.04 Locking Up and Blacking Out"
date: 2012-06-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Sidney232 on 2012-06-11
After updating to 12.04 I have an issue with my display going totally black for a few seconds and then coming on again. Mostly things go back to how they were but sometimes this is followed by a complete lockup requiring hard reset.

I have intel mobo and i5 processor. 4GB memory (memtest86+ ran OK for 3 passes). Using mobo integrated graphics. Everything was running perfectly before the update. I have also opened the case up and hoovered out all the dust although this appears to have made no difference.
Does this sound like software or hardware? How to diagnose? Thanks.

Becoming more frequent now...:confused:

---

### Post by Noble Bell on 2012-06-12
I had a similar problem a few months ago with an earlier version of Ubuntu. It turned out that it was the restricted video card driver that I was using. Just a thought?

---

### Post by Sidney232 on 2012-06-12
Thanks. I don't think I'm using any restricted video drivers. I'm using the Intel motherboard graphics and it used to work perfectly with no problems under 11.10.
Are there any logs I can inspect to see what happened before the system froze?

---

### Post by Sidney232 on 2012-06-15
In preparation for a fresh install of 12.04 when I finally get too peed off with this thing blanking out I have a question about partitioning.
I run two hdd with partitions as follows:
sda1 for /
sda2 for swap
sdb1 for /home

If I do a fresh install and point the /home at sdb1 will the install overwrite my /home or will it detect it's already there and leave it alone?

---

### Post by Sidney232 on 2012-06-21
Going to mark as solved as I found out it's an official bug...

---

