---
title: "6.06 wifi won't work"
date: 2008-11-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by MrCr0 on 2008-11-17
I wasn't sure whether to put this thread here (Absolute Beginner Talk) or in the networking section. I put it here since I am a noob and have a noob question. I'm 17. I'm a long time mac user. Recently got a laptop with Vista pre-installed. Didn't like it. Found an old copy of Dapper Drake (Ubuntu 6.06) lying around. Decided to completely replace Vista with Ubuntu. Once installed, I found that I wasn't connected to the internet. I can't update to 8.10 without internet access. I use a wifi connection. Checked system documentation. Tried going to system > administration > networking. Under "connections" I only saw "modem connection". I tried to follow the documentation by clicking "properties". Couldn't find anything there. Next I tried typing my ip address in random places, hoping it would make the internet work. Nothing happened. Since I don't know anything about networking and am new to Ubuntu, I have no idea what to do. Any ideas? I don't want to have to install windows just to access the internet.

---

### Post by DGortze380 on 2008-11-17
> **MrCr0 said:**
> I wasn't sure whether to put this thread here (Absolute Beginner Talk) or in the networking section. I put it here since I am a noob and have a noob question. I'm 17. I'm a long time mac user. Recently got a laptop with Vista pre-installed. Didn't like it. Found an old copy of Dapper Drake (Ubuntu 6.06) lying around. Decided to completely replace Vista with Ubuntu. Once installed, I found that I wasn't connected to the internet. I can't update to 8.10 without internet access. I use a wifi connection. Checked system documentation. Tried going to system > administration > networking. Under "connections" I only saw "modem connection". I tried to follow the documentation by clicking "properties". Couldn't find anything there. Next I tried typing my ip address in random places, hoping it would make the internet work. Nothing happened. Since I don't know anything about networking and am new to Ubuntu, I have no idea what to do. Any ideas? I don't want to have to install windows just to access the internet.


Don't bother with Dapper. It's unsupported, and likely won't support the hardware of a newer laptop. Download an 8.04 LTS or 8.10 ISO and burn it, and install that. I recommend 8.04.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2008-11-17
Have you got a wired connection that you could temporarily use? There were a lot of updates to the networking process, especially wireless networking, over the last 2-and-a-half years that apparently made the whole process quite a lot easier. Otherwise, downloading the 8.10 image might be worthwhile, to do a fresh install.

I seem to recall that the most widely used method in the Dapper days to get wireless networking going was to use ndiswrapper to load the proprietary firmware onto wireless devices. I never tried it, since I don't use wireless, but you should still be able to find information about the process in the Archive.

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2008-11-17
i'd reccomend 8.04 over 8.10 seeing as a focus of it's development was to improve wireless....

---

### Post by Bölvaður on 2008-11-17
from what I have heard 8.10 was to tackle the problem of wifi not working on some laptops, so I'd say go with 8.10

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-11-17
lets not make this into an agument over 8.04 or 8.10
maybe we can help him run 6.06 until he can upgrade
MrCr0 can you please run this command from terminal
```
lspci
```
and please copy and paste all of what it says, thanks, it will help us identify your Wireless network card

---

### Post by ibizatunes on 2008-11-17
8.10 has a newer kernel with ALOT more wireless support, I would go with with the newest ubuntu possible!

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-11-17
guys, some poeple dont have the option to always download a new CD for every distro. some people are still on dial up internet or maybe in this case has no ability to use an wired internet connection. So lets help him with what he ask, not giving him the only option of trying a newer disto. Because "what if" the new distro doesn't support it either, he is then in the same boat!!!

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2008-11-17
> **LowSky said:**
> guys, some poeple dont have the option to always download a new CD for every distro. some people are still on dial up internet or maybe in this case has no ability to use an wired internet connection. So lets help him with what he ask, not giving him the only option of trying a newer disto. Because "what if" the new distro doesn't support it either, he is then in the same boat!!!

Although I tend to agree, I would say we need more information.

This is after all a fresh install, so to be honest it is probably best to download and do a fresh install of either 8.04 or 8.10. Surely this would be easier for a new user and the bandwidth of a fresh CD is going to be about the same as an upgrade.

Now if we know what wireless card we are talking about we could check a hardware compatibility list ;)

---

### Post by felker2 on 2008-11-17
> **MrCr0 said:**
> Recently got a laptop with Vista pre-installed. Didn't like it. Found an old copy of Dapper Drake (Ubuntu 6.06) lying around..

Good chance that your laptop hardware is newer than Ubuntu 6.06 (dated ... 2006-06), resulting in your new hardware (like the Wifi) not recognized by Ubuntu 6.06.

So don't bother trying to get Ubuntu 6.06 working. Get Ubunu 8.10 (download, shipit, magazine, or a friend) and try that.

HTH

---

