---
title: "Think I deleted my Windows"
date: 2011-03-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by johnstrand1989 on 2011-03-29
So here's the deal

I have an asus 1000he netbook that has a C partition, where windows is/was/hope is still there and a D partition where i installed ubuntu 10.10 via usb. So I had windows 7 on D which installed the newer MBR to dual boot windows xp on c and 7 on d, now grub is installed and there is no reference to windows xp on the boot menu. There is however a reference to the f9 restore partition that comes witht these netbooks.

The only thing I can think of is during installation it asked what to use as a swap space and i selected drive C. Now not being familiar with what a swap space entails exactly that was probably an amazing idea. Help!!!

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-03-29
When you log into ubuntu, go to places, computer

do you see any additional drives besides, 'file system' ?

---

### Post by matt-fender on 2011-03-29
Open a Terminal

Applications>Accessories 

Paste this in and hit enter ( you will be asked for your password )

```
sudo update-grub2
```Paste output, should look something like the following

```
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found background image: moreblue-orbit-grub.png
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-30-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-30-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-29-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-29-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Microsoft Windows XP Professional on /dev/sda1
done
```

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-03-29
Click on the bootscript in my signature, run it and post the text from the generated file between the code tags. Code tags can be generated by clicking on the **(#)** in the reply panel when posting a reply

---

### Post by Canime on 2011-03-30
Open Synaptic package manager and get, os-prober. Run it and see if it finds windows. If it does run, update-grub and it will find it. If os-prober doesn't find it it may have been deleted.

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-03-30
**+1 on wilee-nilee's post to run the info script.**

From that we will be able to tell if Windows is still present, or if you need os_prober or a fresh run of update-grub; or if windows really did get deleted....

[B][I]
The Hedge[/I][/B]

:KS

---

### Post by johnstrand1989 on 2011-03-30
Okay great leads, give me a couple hours and i'll get an update.

---

### Post by johnstrand1989 on 2011-03-31
> **collisionystm said:**
> When you log into ubuntu, go to places, computer

do you see any additional drives besides, 'file system' ?

Only "Flash Reader"

---

### Post by johnstrand1989 on 2011-03-31
> **matt-fender said:**
> Open a Terminal

Applications>Accessories 

Paste this in and hit enter ( you will be asked for your password )

```
sudo update-grub2
```Paste output, should look something like the following

```
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found background image: moreblue-orbit-grub.png
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-30-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-30-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-29-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-29-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Microsoft Windows XP Professional on /dev/sda1
done
```

This is what comes up...

john@john-1000HE:~$ sudo update-grub2
[sudo] password for john: 
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-22-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-22-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Windows NT/2000/XP on /dev/sda3
done
john@john-1000HE:~$ ^C
john@john-1000HE:~$ 



...where the last entry is the f9 recovery drive

---

### Post by matt-fender on 2011-03-31
I'm short of answers here someone else maybe able to help,but have you tried booting into recovery console from a windows installation CD to see if it picks up your installation?

---

