---
title: "Can't install/configure a file through terminal"
date: 2015-05-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by aaron92 on 2015-05-07
Hello, 
I have been researching online and many different people have had this issue, and I have not seen an actual solution to the problem, so I am attempting to get this problem resolved by posting a new thread.

My main problem is that I cannot get "./configure" to work at all. I keep getting the error *bash: ./configure: Permission denied*. I understand that *su *doesn't work because Ubuntu does not have a default root file installed, but even using *su username* still does not work (it will create a root directory, but still gives me the permission denied error). 
I have tried *sudo su*, with no result. Using *sudo su username* also produces no result. The problem is not with the file I am trying to install because the file has nothing to do with permissions in the Linux operating system. For further specificity, the program I am attempting to install is VMD (Visual Molecular Dynamics). 
If anyone could provide a link to information about how to solve this issue, or if someone would be kind enough in explain to me how to overcome this issue, I would be very grateful.

Thanks!
-Aaron

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2015-05-07
Hello and welcome to the forums

Where (in the filesystem) are trying to configure and build the software? what is the result of

```

ls -ld {.,configure}

```

from that directory?

Normally, it's simplest to configure and make in your home directory (where you shouldn't have file permission issues, since you own everything) and run the final install command(s) using `sudo` if the final installation destination is a "system" location such as /usr/local or /usr

---

### Post by sandyd on 2015-05-07
> **aaron92 said:**
> Hello, 
I have been researching online and many different people have had this issue, and I have not seen an actual solution to the problem, so I am attempting to get this problem resolved by posting a new thread.

My main problem is that I cannot get "./configure" to work at all. I keep getting the error *bash: ./configure: Permission denied*. I understand that *su *doesn't work because Ubuntu does not have a default root file installed, but even using *su username* still does not work (it will create a root directory, but still gives me the permission denied error). 
I have tried *sudo su*, with no result. Using *sudo su username* also produces no result. The problem is not with the file I am trying to install because the file has nothing to do with permissions in the Linux operating system. For further specificity, the program I am attempting to install is VMD (Visual Molecular Dynamics). 
If anyone could provide a link to information about how to solve this issue, or if someone would be kind enough in explain to me how to overcome this issue, I would be very grateful.

Thanks!
-Aaron
The ./configure is actually a script and requires execute permissions to run

Either
```

chmod u+x configure
```
or
```

bash ./configure
```

./configure does not require root, please do not use it as it causes issues when you want to delete the folder later and find that you can't because the files generated by ./configure are owned by root.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-05-08
Just to make sure, you have installed the **build-essential** package, yes?

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2015-05-08
I'll add to the good advice here that what you are doing is not configuring a software package.  You are building software.  './configure' is a script intended to set things up for the tools that will do the compiling and building in the next step, the 'make' step.

One thing: There's no dependency resolution here.  If the build needs something that is not installed, or that is installed but it can't find, it will just complain and leave it up to you to fix things.

---

### Post by aaron92 on 2015-05-11
Thank you all for your help so far. Although, my problem still persists.
I apologize for not responding sooner, but I have been very busy this past week. Anywho, here is the result of everything that you guys have suggested.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]261934[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]261935[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]261936[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]261937[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]261938[/ATTACH]

All results are in picture form above.
I tried the ls -ld {.,configure} command. 
Then, I decided to select the folder that housed the file I wished to configure and ran the ls -ld {.,configure} again.
Since that did not amount to anything at all, I moved on to the next option. I tried chmod u+x configure in a few different ways, none of which did anything at all. Literally... it did absolutely nothing as far as I can tell.
Then I tried the bash configure option in the same different ways and got even less of a result.

I have also attached a picture of the original issue I am having.

Lastly, I am extremely new to the Linux operating system and this is why I am having so many issues. 
The operating system that I am running is a clean install of Ubuntu 14.04 LTS.
The reason that I need to use this command is because I am following this installation guide for VMD found at this site: 
[http://blog.thismagpie.com/2012/11/how-to-install-vmd-on-linux-ubuntu-64.html](http://blog.thismagpie.com/2012/11/how-to-install-vmd-on-linux-ubuntu-64.html).
The problem stems from the fact that the *su* command does not work not matter what I do. 
It also seems that if I am having this problem and my OS is a clean install of Ubuntu, there should be an easy solution since I am sure other have had this same issue. The main road block is that when I searched this issue online, anyone who previously had the issue did not post a solution. The only material that was posted was useless information about basic commands that obviously do not work for anyone.
Again, I really appreciate you guys' help on this issue and I am grateful for your continued support.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2015-05-11
There's absolutely no reason to use **su **- you can just use **sudo **for the final install command:

```

sudo make install

```

I don't recommend running the ./configure LINUXAMD64 command as root (i.e. with sudo or su) as shown in that link, since it will leave root-owned files in your private directory (making subsequent configure attempts liable to fail, with 'permission denied' errors). [B]In fact, that may be your issue now.
[/B]
Another issue is that you are not being careful about following instructions exactly: for example when you say

> **aaron92 said:**
> 
Then, I decided to select the folder that housed the file I wished to configure and ran the ls -ld {.,configure} again.
Since that did not amount to anything at all, I moved on to the next option.


it looks like you actually ran

```

LS -ld {.,configure} 

```

(note the upper case LS) - that's not working because Linux is case sensitive, you must use lower case ls

BTW, what does

```

file configure

```
**run from the folder that houses the file the you wish to configure** say?

---

### Post by The Cog on 2015-05-11
I don't think he has been able to run configure as root because he can't get su to work. 

It looks to me like ./configure actually worked (screenshot 3), so maybe the next step is to run the command **make**?
```
make
```

@aaron92:
For your info, about su on Ubuntu:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)

---

### Post by aaron92 on 2015-05-11
Everything seems to have worked. now. It tells me that my installation is complete!
Thanks guys. 

Hear is what worked:
  c*d Documents/vmd-1.9.2*
  *chmod u+x configure*
./configure LINUXAMD64
cd src
sudo make install

Now it says everything has installed correctly!
Here is the code:
```

aaron@aaron-alien:~/Documents/vmd-1.9.2$ ls -ld {.,configure}
drwxr-xr-x 15 aaron aaron   4096 May  7 16:12 .
-rwxrw-r--  1 aaron aaron 118764 May  7 16:06 configure
aaron@aaron-alien:~/Documents/vmd-1.9.2$ file configure
configure: Perl script, ASCII text executable, with very long lines
aaron@aaron-alien:~/Documents/vmd-1.9.2$ cd LINUXAMD64
aaron@aaron-alien:~/Documents/vmd-1.9.2/LINUXAMD64$ file configure
configure: ERROR: cannot open `configure' (No such file or directory)
aaron@aaron-alien:~/Documents/vmd-1.9.2/LINUXAMD64$ cd
aaron@aaron-alien:~$ cd Documents/vmd-1.9.2/
aaron@aaron-alien:~/Documents/vmd-1.9.2$ chmod u+x configure
aaron@aaron-alien:~/Documents/vmd-1.9.2$ ./configure LINUXAMD64
aaron@aaron-alien:~/Documents/vmd-1.9.2$ cd src
aaron@aaron-alien:~/Documents/vmd-1.9.2/src$ make install
if [ ! -d "/usr/local/lib/vmd" ]; then \
        mkdir -p "/usr/local/lib/vmd" ; \
    fi ; \
    if [ ! -d "/usr/local/bin" ]; then \
        mkdir -p "/usr/local/bin" ; \
    fi ; \
    if [ ! -d "/usr/local/lib/vmd"/doc ]; then \
        mkdir -p "/usr/local/lib/vmd"/doc; \
    fi
mkdir: cannot create directory ‘/usr/local/lib/vmd’: Permission denied
mkdir: cannot create directory ‘/usr/local/lib/vmd’: Permission denied
make: *** [install] Error 1
aaron@aaron-alien:~/Documents/vmd-1.9.2/src$ sudo make install
[sudo] password for aaron: 
if [ ! -d "/usr/local/lib/vmd" ]; then \
        mkdir -p "/usr/local/lib/vmd" ; \
    fi ; \
    if [ ! -d "/usr/local/bin" ]; then \
        mkdir -p "/usr/local/bin" ; \
    fi ; \
    if [ ! -d "/usr/local/lib/vmd"/doc ]; then \
        mkdir -p "/usr/local/lib/vmd"/doc; \
    fi
cp ../Announcement  "/usr/local/lib/vmd"
cp ../README        "/usr/local/lib/vmd"
cp ../LICENSE       "/usr/local/lib/vmd"
cp ../doc/ug.pdf        "/usr/local/lib/vmd"/doc
if [ -f /usr/local/lib/vmd/vmd_LINUXAMD64 ]; then \
           mv -f "/usr/local/lib/vmd/vmd_LINUXAMD64" "/usr/local/lib/vmd/OLD_vmd_LINUXAMD64" ; rm -f "/usr/local/lib/vmd/OLD_vmd_LINUXAMD64" ; fi
cp ../LINUXAMD64/vmd_LINUXAMD64 "/usr/local/lib/vmd"
if [ -d "../lib/redistrib/lib_LINUXAMD64" ]; then \
        cd ../lib/redistrib/lib_LINUXAMD64; tar -cf - ./* | \
        (cd "/usr/local/lib/vmd" ; tar -xf -) \
    fi ;
cp ../lib/stride/stride_LINUXAMD64 ../lib/surf/surf_LINUXAMD64 ../lib/tachyon/tachyon_LINUXAMD64 "/usr/local/lib/vmd"
cd ..; tar -cf - scripts | \
    (cd "/usr/local/lib/vmd" ; tar -xf -)
cd ../lib; tar -cf - scripts | \
    (cd "/usr/local/lib/vmd" ; tar -xf -)
cd ..; tar -cf - python | \
    (cd "/usr/local/lib/vmd"/scripts ; tar -xf -)
cd ..; tar -cf - plugins | \
    (cd "/usr/local/lib/vmd" ; tar -xf -)
cd ..; tar -cf - shaders | \
    (cd "/usr/local/lib/vmd" ; tar -xf -)
if [ -f ../LINUXAMD64/OptiXShaders.ptx ]; then \
        cp ../LINUXAMD64/OptiXShaders.ptx "/usr/local/lib/vmd/shaders"; \
    fi; 
cp ../data/.vmdrc ../data/.vmdsensors ../data/vmd_completion.dat "/usr/local/lib/vmd"
cd ../bin ; \
    if [ -f run_vmd_tmp ]; then rm -f run_vmd_tmp; fi ; \
    if [ ! -x "/bin/csh" ]; then \
        echo "Info: /bin/csh shell not found, installing Bourne shell startup script instead" ; \
        echo '#!/bin/sh' >> run_vmd_tmp ; \
        echo 'defaultvmddir="/usr/local/lib/vmd"' >> run_vmd_tmp ; \
        echo 'vmdbasename=vmd' >> run_vmd_tmp ; \
        cat vmd.sh >> run_vmd_tmp ; \
    else \
        echo '#!/bin/csh' >> run_vmd_tmp ; \
        echo 'set defaultvmddir="/usr/local/lib/vmd"' >> run_vmd_tmp ; \
        echo 'set vmdbasename=vmd' >> run_vmd_tmp ; \
        cat vmd.csh >> run_vmd_tmp ; \
    fi ; \
    chmod +x run_vmd_tmp ; \
    cp run_vmd_tmp "/usr/local/bin"/vmd ; \
    rm -f run_vmd_tmp
echo Make sure "/usr/local/bin"/vmd is in your path.
Make sure /usr/local/bin/vmd is in your path.
echo "VMD installation complete.  Enjoy!"
VMD installation complete.  Enjoy!
aaron@aaron-alien:~/Documents/vmd-1.9.2/src$
```

Many thanks to everyone who helped and put up with my "noviceness." 
This is one problem down and many more to go!

---

### Post by kulen19 on 2015-05-13
Glad to hear its working. A quick tip to make your ubuntu experience  smoother: pay very good attention to what steeldriver says. **Its essential to use sudo instead of su, to avoid permission problems. **Seems like you got some problem swhen running make install aswell, due to permission problems(this is because you need elevated permission when creating new files/folders in /usr/local/lib).

---

