---
title: ".run Files, GRUB, and I'm a newbie (gutsy)"
date: 2008-08-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Chalks on 2008-08-04
Hi.  :)

My last hard drive died, forcing me to finally getting around to installing Ubuntu!  I would love it if you guys could help me out with a few questions.



I'm trying to install ATI's Catalyst Control Center 8.6 for linux, and the install file I have has an extension of ".run".  I'm tried putting "/pathToFile/filename.run" and "sudo /pathToFile/filename.run" in the terminal and both times I got "unrecognized command".  How do I use .run files?

When my machine boots up, GRUB shows:
windows xp home edition
ubuntu 7.10
ubuntu 7.10 (recover)
memtest 86
I would like to put a second new line between the 0th entry and the 1st entry, but I don't want to make a blank entry in menu.lst because that would make ubuntu 7.10 the 2nd entry, and I'd have to press the down button twice to select it.  This is a very minor issue, but is there any way to add new lines without adding blank new entries (with '\n' or something)?

To set up the installation of Windows XP and Ubuntu, I first installed XP.  Then, I used parted to resize XP and installed Ubuntu on the remaining partition.  XP's partition is NTFS, and Ubuntu's is ext3 (I think?).  Sadly, I resized it backwards from how I wanted it it and now the XP partition is 22gb, the Ubuntu is 50gb, and there's another 8gb partition that (only shows up in windows) I have no idea what it is.  Can I use resize to switch the XP partition to 58gb, and the Ubuntu partition to 22gb?  What (exactly) are the commands to do so?  Parted confuses me a little bit.

Thanks very much, and I'm already loving Ubuntu... don't know why I didn't install it years ago.

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2008-08-04
You can use the Live CD and use the GParted program on it. It will give you a graphical way of resizing and moving your partitions.

Another option is to actually download and burn the GParted live cd itself.

For the .run files, you will have to make them executable first ```
chmod +x /path/to/.run_file
```

Then if it is a script you will have to run it as```
sh /path/to/.run_file
```Add a sudo to this command if you want it installed system wide or without a sudo it will be installed only for the current user.

---

