---
title: "32 and 64"
date: 2012-06-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by MWGod on 2012-06-03
Hello,

I am thinking of getting a new computer with a 64-bit processor. Can I install 32-bit Ubuntu on there? And if so, will I still be able to get more than 4 GB of RAM?

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2012-06-04
> **MWGod said:**
> Hello,

I am thinking of getting a new computer with a 64-bit processor. Can I install 32-bit Ubuntu on there? And if so, will I still be able to get more than 4 GB of RAM?

yes if the processor is a x86_64, which it is probably is
if it is itamium then no

get ubuntu with a pae kernel and you can allocate more than 4gb of ram, but it wont be as fast
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnablingPAE](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnablingPAE)

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-06-04
Hi, it would be best to use 64 bit operating system, I have for several years and have never had a problem with it.
Thanks

---

### Post by synapsys on 2012-06-04
+1 on installing the 64 bit version. You can even install 32 bit applications on 64 bit Ubuntu by installing the 32 bit libraries (ia32-libs).

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-06-04
> **synapsys said:**
> +1 on installing the 64 bit version. You can even install 32 bit applications on 64 bit Ubuntu by installing the 32 bit libraries (ia32-libs).

+1. Not sure why you would want to install 32bit OS on a 64bit machine but hey, you may have your reasons.

I use 64bit on my 64bit machines and 32bit on the one 32bit desktop. Never had problems with any of them, not related to bits anyhow ...

---

### Post by MWGod on 2012-06-04
So I should just use 64-bit? Thanks, I'll mark the thread as solved.

---

### Post by traditionalist on 2012-06-04
+1  ( that means another vote) for a 64 BIT system.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-06-04
> **MWGod said:**
> So I should just use 64-bit? Thanks, I'll mark the thread as solved.

+1. Do both and good luck. Start a new thread with any further issues.

When you boot the CD/USB to install, 'Try Ubuntu' first to see how it runs on your hardware. There is an icon on the desktop 'Install Ubuntu' and you can install from there if all good.

---

