---
title: "13.10 Unity alternatives"
date: 2013-12-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Val87 on 2013-12-21
Hey Folks,
I was wondering has anyone tried using KWIN on a unity desktop for Ubuntu 13.10? Will it work on Unity. I heard it was hard to use and lacked the graphical UI that Compiz has, but was considered to be more stable. Any opinions on that? Where would a newbie go to decorate his desktop? :)

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2013-12-21
Why don't you just run Kubuntu? I don't agree that kwin is more stable than Compiz.

---

### Post by Val87 on 2013-12-21
Kubuntu, that is just a different version of Ubuntu? Right? Probably lacks functionality and support?

---

### Post by BlinkinCat on 2013-12-21
> **Valeri_Tarassov said:**
> Kubuntu, Probably lacks functionality and support?

There are many thousands of happy Kubuntu users who certainly wouldn't agree with you at all!

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-12-22
kwin is associated with the KDE Desktop Environment and is included with Kubuntu.  KDE uses a different compositor than Compiz.

Kubuntu lacks neither functionality nor support.  It is one of the  official derivatives (generally referred to as "flavors") of Ubuntu.

[http://www.ubuntu.com/about/about-ubuntu/derivatives](http://www.ubuntu.com/about/about-ubuntu/derivatives)

Please look to the right.  I use Kubuntu.

---

### Post by Val87 on 2013-12-22
Well if switching to Kubuntu does it mean:


[LIST=1]
[*]Ubuntu has to be removed completely? And fresh install to be made? 
[*]My pictures, music and college work are all on ubuntu one on back up? Can it be synched later? 
[*]I run World of Tanks on Playonlinux and Wine, will i still be able to do so? 
[*]It will be a KDE desktop, so i could have something like that?: [http://fc06.deviantart.net/fs71/f/2013/240/7/0/kubuntu_13_10_by_chriptik-d6k5eu5.png](http://fc06.deviantart.net/fs71/f/2013/240/7/0/kubuntu_13_10_by_chriptik-d6k5eu5.png) 
[/LIST]

Thanks for all your help! :)

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-12-22
You should have no concerns with any of that, so long as you make sure you either back everything up or preserve your /home if you reinstall.  You won't get "kicked out" of Ubuntu One.

You can also just install kubuntu-desktop if you want and choose Unity or KDE for your session when you log in.  Some applications are "specific" to each DE with dependencies that belong to each, but by and large most apps will work on either.  I use Gedit in Ubuntu and Kate in Kubuntu, for instance.

Remember that we're talking about an "official" derivative, which is sanctioned by Canonical under the Ubuntu "family".  It's not like Mint, which is derived from Ubuntu but is not Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Val87 on 2013-12-22
> **QIII said:**
> You should have no concerns with any of that, so long as you make sure you either back everything up or preserve your /home if you reinstall.  You won't get "kicked out" of Ubuntu One.

You can also just install kubuntu-desktop if you want and choose Unity or KDE for your session when you log in.  Some applications are "specific" to each DE with dependencies that belong to each, but by and large most apps will work on either.  I use Gedit in Ubuntu and Kate in Kubuntu, for instance.

Remember that we're talking about an "official" derivative, which is sanctioned by Canonical under the Ubuntu "family".  It's not like Mint, which is derived from Ubuntu but is not Ubuntu.

Thank you. Frankly i kicked Windows 7 couple of months ago, and do not want to go back ... Unity seems nice, but sometimes it is driving me insane, especially with applications that are meant to run on full screen and when it comes to switching between them while working ... and mostly i want to have a good looking desktop, like the one i showed in my previous post, and i know for a fact that Unity does not like when you interfere with it ... Ubuntu 14.04 LTS is to come out soon, does it mean that there will be a Kubuntu 14.04 LTS?
And when i get it installed, will you people help me to create an attractive looking desktop?

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-12-22
For all the official derivatives, the LTS versions are all LTS versions, although the length of time for support is not always what it is for Ubuntu.

What you consider an attractive desktop may not be the next person's cup of tea, but people will be happy to help by telling  you where you can look for themes that you might like.  That's all a pretty subjective thing.  But the possibilities for configuration seem endless, so you can make things just the way you'd like.

Don't be fixed on Kubuntu.  Xubuntu is also configurable.  Lubuntu is, too, but you can configure it right out of being light weight.

---

### Post by Val87 on 2013-12-22
[http://netrunner-mag.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/xubuntu.png](http://netrunner-mag.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/xubuntu.png)
Something like this. 
Or this: [http://www.thepowerbase.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/Desktop-1_002.png](http://www.thepowerbase.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/Desktop-1_002.png) is absolutely perfect.
I just ran a Kubuntu media to try it out, i liked it. We should probable rename this thread, so others who look for help on similar topic can find it. 

Thanks

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-12-22
Here's mine clean: 

[ATTACH=CONFIG]248801[/ATTACH]

and "dirty":

[ATTACH=CONFIG]248802[/ATTACH]

I like things pretty simple.  Just an example of making it the way you want it.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2013-12-22
> **Valeri_Tarassov said:**
> Unity seems nice, but sometimes it is driving me insane, especially with applications that are meant to run on full screen and when it comes to switching between them while working ..

Install ccsm (compiz-config-settings manager), enable scale and choose a hot corner to pick applications. In KDE I would use the same method (somewhere in system settings > effects) to  switch between full screen applications, by far the most efficient way IMO if you don't use keyboard shortcuts.

---

