---
title: "Ubuntu 7.10 hangs after boot."
date: 2009-01-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by melrokz on 2009-01-11
I have Ubuntu 7.10 installed.
My PC is 4 years old - (P4 2.4GHz, 160GB HDD, 760MB RAM, Intel 845GL graphics card).
Ubuntu rocks, I've been using it for more than an year now, but sometimes only a black screen comes after booting. When I restart, e2fsck (check disk) runs and it restarts the pc. Then it's fine. 

1. How to avoid this sequence of events and boot normally? 

2. Any other free linux distributions as good as Ubuntu? (I doubt it)

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2009-01-11
There have been a number of improvements since 7.10, particularly in hardware drivers. You might consider 8.10 or 8.04 LTS. 
It could be that the linux kernel requires some simple parameters to run properly on your system. The dmesg file is a diagnostic message generated by the kernel. It will contain some helpful information regarding how the kernel is running on your system. It can be difficult to interpret, but some hints are obvious...like "Try using acpi=off." A message like that is telling you to use acpi=off as a boot option at the end of the kernel line in the file /boot/grub/menu.lst. In this section:
```
## ## End Default Options ##

title		Ubuntu 8.10, kernel 2.6.27-9-generic
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-9-generic root=UUID=XXXX ro **acpi=off**
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-9-generic
quiet
``` If you were to look at the same section of the file, shown above, you might see "quiet splash" in place of acpi=off, highlighted above.
To read dmesg try the command ```
dmesg > ~/Desktop/dmesg.txt
```this will write the file to your desktop. You can right click the file and select "create an archive." You can upload the archive here for more help.

---

### Post by melrokz on 2009-01-11
This is the archived dmesg file.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2009-01-11
Is there a printer hooked up during boot? There was some bug in Gutsy related to: ```
type=1503 operation="inode_permission" requested_mask="a" denied_mask="a" name="/dev/tty" pid=4767 profile="/usr/sbin/cupsd"
```From your dmesg.txt

Beyond that, nothing really jumped out at me...maybe try deleting quiet splash and using pci=routeirq.
But my first recommendation is to do a clean install of Intrepid Ibex 8.10.

---

### Post by melrokz on 2009-01-11
no printer...

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2009-01-11
well...regardless of whether a printer is actually hooked up, the cups daemon runs during boot. This bug affects apparmor, I believe, and occasionally you are denied /dev/tty.
Do you understand how to try pci=routeirq?
Are you interested in upgrading to 8.10?

---

### Post by melrokz on 2009-01-12
I did a clean install of Ubuntu 8.10, but not even the Live cd starts. I installed it using the install option in the CD. on hdd boot, no login screen appears. the monitor seems to have a wierd coloured pattern. What may i do?
(P4 2.4GHz, 160GB HDD, 760MB RAM, Intel 845GL graphics card)

---

