---
title: "12.10 hangs on boot. Windows 7 dual boot machine"
date: 2013-03-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tjuklondon on 2013-03-22
I am experiencing some issues in upgrading from Ubuntu 12.04 LTS to 12.10. I initially did a install of LTS and when it was all working I did the upgrade via the Software Update tool.
 
On re-booting it hangs on a purple screen with Ubuntu and five yellow dots that don’t move.

I have a Samsung Q320 with Nvidea graphics card.

I have done the following
 
Before booting changing the default wording from $linux_gfx_mode to nomodeset.
Run updates in terminal including nvidea. This gave a warning about broken packages so I then run the utility that fixes broken packages (fmck? - cant remember dont have that computer with me now)
 
I am new to Ubuntu having switched from Fuduntu (which I found very stable and compatible but a little dated). Whilst I would be happy with Ubuntu LTS I would then be stuck on that version and to me there does not seem a lot of point in having an operating system that you are afraid to upgrade.
 
As you may tell I am not an expert. I can follow instructions to enter commands in terminal but don’t have a proper understanding.
 
If someone could post some commands to get outputs which I could paste or make any other suggestions I would appreciate it greatly.

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-03-22
What happens when you boot without adding "nomodeset"?

I think the issue is of broken packages. Post the output of:

```
sudo apt-get update
```

[Read Here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCdRecovery") to learn how to run the above command if your system is not loading (refer to the section "Upate Failure").

Personally, I don't recommend UPGRADE... always do a CLEAN INSTALL when you are upgrading to a newer version.
12.04 is LTS and supported till 2017. All the packages will be 'latest' except the Linux Kernel (it will be updated regularly but not much). If you want latest I suggest you install [13.04-daily build]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/") (which is anyways due in April). Its quite stable and IMO better than 12.10.

---

### Post by tjuklondon on 2013-03-22
Thanks fantab. I will post the results later when I get home. 

If I dont change to nomodeset it freezes as described in the original post (ie purple screen with Umbuntu written in the middle with 5 or so static yellow dots underneath)

Was interested that its better to do a clean install rather than upgrade. If I do this is there a way if keeping my data intact or do I have to back up and then reload? The other issue for me is that I like to configure my set up in specific ways (small font, show all active windows when pushing curser to certain corner, Gnome Do, Skype etc) and it would be a pain to re-do at every install. If this is the case would I get round this by having two partitions - one for the OS and one for data?

Thanks again

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-22
With 12.10 it does not install headers which correct install of nVidia needs.

 # You may need headers first - meta package for 12.10 version:
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic

   Re: How To Install Nvidia Drivers [v8.1.2.12 by Bogan]. post 1126
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535&page=113](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535&page=113)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2081649](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2081649)

I prefer clean installs but have all data in separate data partitions. For newer users it is easier just to have a separate /home.

You also need to export a list of installed apps to reimport but if you have used ppa's that complicates it. But you never should upgrade with pps's enabled anyway as the pps may not have a new version and that causes all the issues of not correctly upgrading.

My entire backup assumes a new clean install, so I want to backup everything I need to restore with minimal effort.

 Oldfred's list of stuff to backup May 2011:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1748541](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1748541)

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-03-22
> **tjuklondon said:**
> Was interested that its better to do a clean install rather than upgrade. If I do this is there a way if keeping my data intact or do I have to back up and then reload? The other issue for me is that I like to configure my set up in specific ways (small font, show all active windows when pushing curser to certain corner, Gnome Do, Skype etc) and it would be a pain to re-do at every install. If this is the case would I get round this by having two partitions - one for the OS and one for data?

Thats what I do. I just install my Ubuntu to 20GB partition as /. (Which means my / and /home is one). I install all my DATA on separate partition formatted with ext4. When browsing your "Home" hit Ctrl+H, it will reveal all your hidden dot (.)folders and files. These hidden files and folders save your per application preferences. 

I just carry forward my .thunderbird by moving it to my Data partition before installing a newer ubuntu and after clean install I copy back my .thunderbird to Home. 

I find reconfiguring all over again to be fun. Only the first time it will be a pain, then you know what you want and how you want it... you can customize it in less than a few minutes. Do make a note of oldfred's last link on what to back up.

---

### Post by tjuklondon on 2013-03-23
Thanks all for all the advice. In the end I decided I needed to set up a /home partition so decided it was easiest to do a fresh install of 13.04 and its running great!

Best wishes

Michael

---

### Post by tjuklondon on 2013-03-23
* I would mark as solved but this option doesnt come up in my thread tools....*

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-23
Sometimes a clean install is the easiest solution.

See  my signature as upgraded forum does not yet have an add-in for closed.

---

