---
title: "12.04 locks up shortly after booting"
date: 2013-07-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by josh3 on 2013-07-31
I wanted to try out Ubuntu on my laptop and thought that wubi would be a good way to go about it, for minimal fuss with Windows. I installed 12.04 LTS fine, and it boots all-right, but after 3-4 minutes after doing so things stop responding. First Unity stops, then whatever application I'm using. Both ignore anything from my mouse and the laptop keyboard, but I can still use the power button & external keyboard to restart my laptop (but seemingly little else, can't change applications etc). Sometimes I get a popup error saying that Ubuntu's encountered a problem (doesn't say what the problem is) and that I should restart if it continues, but not always. I've done a bit of searching, and I'm not really sure where to go with this, so any help would be appreciated, thanks!

Some information on my system if it's any help:
Dell Studio 1749
BIOS Ver 1.00 A08
Intel Core i5-520M
4GB RAM
AMD Radeon 5650M

---

### Post by SchnappiJedi on 2013-07-31
Did you install the 32bit or 64 bit version? If you installed the 64bit version maybe installing the 32bit version in its place would solve the problem.

You would think a newer machine would have no problem with a 64bit version. Yet just a few days ago I saw a fairly new machine experience a great deal of issues with a 64bit Linux mint installation. After installing the 32bit version there were absolutely no problems.

---

### Post by josh3 on 2013-07-31
How do I check this? I can't remember Wubi specifically saying which version it would install when I did so.

---

### Post by Karlchen on 2013-07-31
```
uname -a; lsb_release -rd
```
As you just say Ubuntu 12.04. In case this really means the first release from May 2012, then make sure you install all available updates including the latest kernel which should K3.2.0-51#77 at the time of writing this.

---

### Post by SchnappiJedi on 2013-08-09
> **josh3 said:**
> How do I check this? I can't remember Wubi specifically saying which version it would install when I did so.

Sorry for the delay in responding. When you login over SSH (and maybe when logging in locally, I can't remember) the first line after entering your password should read something like this: 

"Welcome to Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.5.0-37-generic x86_64)"

It will vary depending on what version you have installed. In the above example "**x86_64**" means that you have the 64-bit version. If you post this line I think someone could tell you what version you have.

---

