---
title: "[SOLVED] Screen resolution only 800x600 or smaller hp mx70"
date: 2008-05-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by canonge2 on 2008-05-30
Hi,
I am very new to Linux. The install went well, but there are only 2 options for the screen resolution. I am using the hp pavilion mx70 monitor and the hp pavilion 520w computer. Any help would be appreciated. 
Thanks,
Melissa

---

### Post by littletinman on 2008-05-30
ok, whats your graphics card?


I had the same issue. I solved it by going to Restricted drivers and enableing them. system>administration> Hardware Drivers


Give that a shot

---

### Post by jimv on 2008-05-30
You're looking at this from the glass is half empty perspective.  Your screen resolution isn't smaller, your icons are bigger!

---

### Post by littletinman on 2008-05-30
Um, Well technically you have a smaller workspace. So everything is crammed into a smaller area, making them apear to be bigger.

---

### Post by canonge2 on 2008-05-30
I went to hardware drivers, but it stated "NO proprietary drivers are installed." Was I supposed to download a driver from somewhere?
Thanks

---

### Post by littletinman on 2008-05-30
actually no, it just means that the hardware drivers don't see any use. Ok next step is finding your graphics card. Do you know what brand your computer graphics are? like on your computer there should a be a lil sticker.

---

### Post by canonge2 on 2008-05-30
Hi,

This is what I have:
00:01.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 (CGC) Chipset Graphics Controller (rev 03)

HP Pavilion 520w says Video Adaptor is onboard in chipset 810

Thanks,
Melissa

---

### Post by littletinman on 2008-05-30
ok, hmmmmmm. I have a bunch of work to catch up on, but i recommend looking around on the forum for people who have posted about your graphics card.

---

### Post by canonge2 on 2008-06-02
Hi,
I searched, but I can't find anything to help me. Does anyone know how I can fix my resolution?

Thanks,
Melissa

---

### Post by phr0ze on 2008-06-02
Reboot and on the boot menu, choose the Recovery mode. When a new menu comes up, choose the XFIX option. See if that helps

Thanks,
John

---

### Post by canonge2 on 2008-06-02
Hi,
Thanks for your reply, but I tried and it did not change the options for the screen resolution. I have noticed on other posts that they post their xorg file. In case someone needs it this is my xorg.conf file:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
 Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
 Driver "kbd"
 Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
 Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
 Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
 Identifier "Configured Mouse"
 Driver "mouse"
 Option "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
 Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
 Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
 Identifier "Default Screen"
 Monitor "Configured Monitor"
 Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
 Identifier "Default Layout"
 Screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Thanks,
Melissa

---

### Post by Mjölner on 2008-06-02
Hi Melissa,

The Intel driver for your onboard 810 Graphics Controller chipset is xf86-video-intel 2.3.0

It you do a search in the Synaptic Package manager for "X.Org X server -- Intel i8xx, i9xx display driver" You should find it there. Hopefully its not already installed :) as this could solve your problem.


I have included a link to a page on the Intel site which deals with your graphics chipset and GNU/Linux


[http://downloadcenter.intel.com/Detail_Desc.aspx?agr=N&Inst=Yes&ProductID=178&DwnldID=13815&strOSs=39&OSFullName=Linux*&lang=eng]("http://downloadcenter.intel.com/Detail_Desc.aspx?agr=N&Inst=Yes&ProductID=178&DwnldID=13815&strOSs=39&OSFullName=Linux*&lang=eng")

Let me know what happens

Mjolner

---

### Post by canonge2 on 2008-06-02
Hi,
I ran the search and the following 2 packages were installed:


X.Org X server -- Intel i8xx, i9xx display driver 
This package provides the driver for the Intel i8xx and i9xx family
of chipsets, including i810, i815, i830, i845, i855, i865, i915, and
i945 series chips.

This package also provides an XvMC (XVideo Motion Compensation) driver
for the same chipsets.

More information about X.Org can be found at:
<URL:http://www.X.org>
<URL:http://xorg.freedesktop.org>
<URL:http://lists.freedesktop.org/mailman/listinfo/xorg>

This package is built from the X.org xf86-video-intel driver module.

X.Org X server -- Intel i8xx, i9xx display driver 
This package provides the driver for the Intel i8xx and i9xx family
of chipsets, including i810, i815, i830, i845, i855, i865, i915, i945
and i965 series chips.

This package also provides an XvMC (XVideo Motion Compensation) driver
for i810 and i815 chipsets.

More information about X.Org can be found at:
<URL:http://www.X.org>
<URL:http://xorg.freedesktop.org>
<URL:http://lists.freedesktop.org/mailman/listinfo/xorg>

This package is built from the X.org xf86-video-intel driver module.

I'm not sure what to do next. Do I download another driver from the link you sent me? I tried to download the first one listed, but I didn't understand how to install it.

I'm sorry if I seem ignorant, but I am.(LOL) 
I hope you can help me further.

Thanks, 
Melissa

---

### Post by canonge2 on 2008-06-02
Hi,
I'm still looking for an answer. Just wanted to bump this post up and hope someone will be able to help me.

Thanks,
Melissa

---

### Post by Snappo on 2008-06-02
I've been trying to get this working for over a month now and no luck for me.

---

### Post by canonge2 on 2008-06-03
That's not very encouraging! Is there anyway to change the screen resolution?

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-06-03
Well lucky for you I have a HP MX50 and our models are not far off, I suggest trying the screens and graphics application by typing gksu displayconfig-gtk.
But first what version of edubuntu are you using?

---

### Post by canonge2 on 2008-06-03
I am running 8.04
Thanks

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-06-03
alright, well you can start by doing what I suggested, and go to the "screen" tab
is your monitor picked up as a plug and play?

---

### Post by django0909 on 2008-06-03
Hi Melissa,

I've just fixed this problem with a fresh Hardy install. On startup it told me it was stuck in Low Graphics mode and did I want to configure my monitor/hardware setup. I have a HP L1706 flatscreen monitor which wasn't in the list, but the HP L1702 was, and it worked. If you can get to the same screen as me and your monitor isn't there, it might be worth picking the closest match, because it worked for me.

Best of luck!

---

### Post by canonge2 on 2008-06-03
I am really new at this, so I'm not sure where this "screens and graphics application" is located.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-06-03
type gksu displayconfig-gtk in a terminal.

---

### Post by tcommbee on 2008-06-03
It's under System>Preferences
EDIT: SunnyRabbiera got the right one

---

### Post by canonge2 on 2008-06-03
Ok. I did it and it is listed as plug and play.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-06-03
> **canonge2 said:**
> Ok. I did it and it is listed as plug and play.

figured so, and one can assume the max resolution in it is 800x600.
I suggest trying one of the other generic settings, to get mine to work past 800x600 I had to use the generic lcd 1024x768 driver to make my screen co operate and maybe that will work for you.

---

### Post by canonge2 on 2008-06-03
YEAH! It worked. Thank You very much!!!

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-06-03
> **canonge2 said:**
> YEAH! It worked. Thank You very much!!!

No problem.
I am sorry this issue took you long to fix though, but trail and error does help in the end trust me.

---

### Post by Snappo on 2008-06-03
> **SunnyRabbiera said:**
> figured so, and one can assume the max resolution in it is 800x600.
I suggest trying one of the other generic settings, to get mine to work past 800x600 I had to use the generic lcd 1024x768 driver to make my screen co operate and maybe that will work for you.

This worked a wee bit for me then i edited my xorg file and made it the exact resolution i needed and it worked :)

1280x600

---

