---
title: "10.04: Suspend and hibernate problem"
date: 2011-07-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ColAlf on 2011-07-26
Hi,

I have problems with suspending and hibernating my laptop.

When I suspend it from the menu the screen goes black and won't resume so I have to force it to turn off by pressing the power button.

When I hibernate it powers off and when I turn it on again it boots instead of resuming.

In my search for help I found the "uswsusp" and installed it from the Ubuntu Software Center, but this doesn't seem to have done any good.

Any ideas on how to fix this?

I'm running UNR 10.04 on a [MSI X320]("http://www.msi.com/product/nb/X320.html#?div=Specification"). I have 2GB RAM and my swap partition is 6GB.

And btw, this is my first linux installation.

- Jeppe

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-07-26
Are you sure it reboots and does not resume from hibernate?  The two can look a bit similar if you are not used to it.

You can easily test this by leaving applications open when you hibernate;  they should still be open when you restart.  If they are not still open, you are probably correct, but I can not imagine why, unless you have set the system to shutdown when the hibernate button is pressed in power management.

---

### Post by ColAlf on 2011-07-26
> **ajgreeny said:**
> The two can look a bit similar if you are not used to it.
True, quite a lot of things are hard to tell how they're supposed to be when this is the first time running linux.

I discovered through [*this site*]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/MSI%20X320") that my laptop has a few issues running linux. Among other things is a non-functional SD card reader. Before, when trying to resume from hibernating, the card reader malfunctioned and forced the laptop to boot. Now, I've blacklisted it (with help from [*this site*]("http://wolfs-ubuntu.blogspot.com/2009/06/msi-x320-graphics-installation.html")) so it works slightly better now.

After testing the hibernate function a few times (with running applications) I found out that only 1 out of 4 times it resumed with the applications still running. And 3 out of 4 times it resumed without the applications - like on booting.

Suspending the laptop works better now after I blacklisted the card reader.

---

