---
title: "9.04 works but not 9.10"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by scottishbloke on 2009-11-04
Hi,having troubles with karmic koala,jaunty works on my pc no bother,just done a clean install with karmic,all was fine and after the white symbol at start up it just goes onto a black screen and stays there,i cant type or nowt?any suggestions are greatly appreciated

---

### Post by ukripper on 2009-11-04
What graphics card do you have?

---

### Post by danill2008 on 2009-11-04
Yes, mine also does that ...im also not sure what causes it. Is your PC a AMD?

---

### Post by scottishbloke on 2009-11-04
I'm not sure what graphics card i have,its a fairly old system,so then i cant use 9.10?

---

### Post by ukripper on 2009-11-04
until we find out the problem is caused by which component, it is hard to provide any sort of workaround.

Can you put 9.10's live cd in and boot from it and see if you get the same?

---

### Post by scottishbloke on 2009-11-04
ok i will try and boot up from the live cd

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-11-04
> **scottishbloke said:**
> I'm not sure what graphics card i have,its a fairly old system,so then i cant use 9.10?

It is likely to be an Intel 845G integrated graphics if it is the comp in your signature unless you have upgraded ?

---

### Post by scottishbloke on 2009-11-04
Right thats me using the live cd to type this?

---

### Post by scottishbloke on 2009-11-04
nope ive not upgraded anything,just my ram a month back wich has been fine

---

### Post by ukripper on 2009-11-04
> **scottishbloke said:**
> Right thats me using the live cd to type this?

Are you using Wubi install within windows by any chance?

---

### Post by scottishbloke on 2009-11-04
no,no windows on my system,running with live cd

---

### Post by ukripper on 2009-11-04
> **scottishbloke said:**
> no,no windows on my system,running with live cd

While using livecd, can you open terminal and type below command and post output here :
```
lspci
```

---

### Post by scottishbloke on 2009-11-04
sure yeah heres what i got in the termianl after running that command..

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE/PE DRAM Controller/Host-Hub Interface (rev 01)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 01)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 01)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 01)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 01)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-M) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 01)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev 81)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL (ICH4/ICH4-L) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 01)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801DB (ICH4) IDE Controller (rev 01)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) SMBus Controller (rev 01)
00:1f.5 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 01)
01:0c.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82540EM Gigabit Ethernet Controller (rev 02)
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$

---

### Post by ukripper on 2009-11-04
> **scottishbloke said:**
> sure yeah heres what i got in the termianl after running that command..

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE/PE DRAM Controller/Host-Hub Interface (rev 01)


ok looks like there is a problem with graphics driver being used during install and Live cd is using different driver. See this link:[http://www.backports.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=675870](http://www.backports.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=675870)

Someone there made below changes:
> [I]**I had a similar problem with a new Macbook. While running the live CD, compiz worked fine.[B] When I installed Ubuntu, compiz did not work. For some reason, the live cd loaded a driver that worked, but the install used another driver. I rebooted with the live cd, and went to System, Administration, Screens and Graphics and wrote down the name of the driver that worked. I then rebooted to the install, went back into Screens and Graphics and changed the driver to the one that worked.** I rebooted X and all was well with compiz.
Sorry for the non-answer, but it is how I solved my similar problem.[/B][/I]
Good luck!


> it worked!!

the driver with live cd was 'intel -experimental modesetting driver'
and that in system was 'VESA - GENERIC vesa'

**[COLOR="Blue"]i changed the driver in system to 'intel -experimental modesetting driver' , first it didnt work, i mean, it didnt change, after i click OK and open 'screen and graphics preferences' again, it showed the driver as 'VESA - GENERIC vesa' itself[/COLOR]**

thn i clicked som other driver and clicked OK, but at that point computer just hang up

when ubuntu reloaded it said "low graphics mode" and asked to select my graphics card.
at this point, i selected 'intel -experimental modesetting driver', and eurekka!!

it worked

You can try these changes and see if it helps.

.

---

### Post by scottishbloke on 2009-11-04
Thanks very much for your help,ive went to system and administration but theres nothing there to click for screens and graphics?

---

### Post by ukripper on 2009-11-04
> **scottishbloke said:**
> Thanks very much for your help,ive went to system and administration but theres nothing there to click for screens and graphics?

Right now i am not on my 9.10 box. Can you see where it says anything related to screens or display?

---

### Post by lindix on 2009-11-04
> **scottishbloke said:**
> Thanks very much for your help,ive went to system and administration but theres nothing there to click for screens and graphics?

some problem for me.

---

### Post by swilleyman on 2009-11-04
I did a fresh install of 9.10 and did have some video issues similar to those described here, blank screen or flashing screen.  I am running an Alienware m9700 with dual Nvidia 7900GS cards. 

First issue encountered was a blank screen:  It had to do with the generic xorg.conf.  It appears that xorg was having trouble building of the configuration and auto detecting the video hardware.  So I ran 

so I booted into the recovery console (with Networking) and ran

```
sudo Xorg -configure
```

This generated a full xorg.conf with hardware mapping and such.  So I ran with this.

I rebooted and got the flashing screen issue.

This appeared to be the result of the "nv" driver for my NVIDIA cards.
So back to the recovery console....

I changed the "nv" settings to "vesa" and rebooted to get to the GUI.

From there I installed the "recommended (185)" restricted driver from NVIDIA.

Reboot and cross fingers.....   Fail
I was back to a blank screen.  

I checked the /var/logs/xorg.0.log and found no EE (errors)  So I thought what could this be?..

Because I have 2 video cards I though, hey maybe this is an a mapping issue.  X11 was loading but displaying on what it thought was the primary card/output.  

So back to the recover console and change the mapping of "Card0" to "Card1" and "Card1" to "Card0"  and reboot.

Hooray!!! X11 loads smooth and very fast.

Next odd issue.
```

glxinfo 
```

shows No Direct rendering

I confirm that I am running the NVIDIA drivers so what could it be?

How about permissions.  

```
sudo glxinfo
```

There it is Direct Rendering Yes

So to get that working I went System>Administration>Users and Groups

"unlocked" the UI 

Highlight my UserID

Properties

User Privileges 

And checked  "Use Video Devices"

reboot (to be sure)

now direct rendering works for the non rooted users.


I now have all the display and video related pieces working.  9.10 runs significantly faster than 9.04 ran on the same hardware and for those who like their windows games like HL2, Dark Messiah, etc.  Wine and NVIDIA drivers run the directx stuff at far higher frame rates.  

Overall I am very happy with 9.10.  


I hope some of this helps people having trouble.

---

### Post by scottishbloke on 2009-11-04
if i go to preferences then display it shows me my monitor but theres not a lot there i can do.

---

### Post by scottishbloke on 2009-11-04
Well i tried to reinstall again and this time i have it installed side by side with jaunty and its booted up fine so far,should i just delete jaunty now?and if so how can i do that?thanks for the help folks

---

### Post by scottishbloke on 2009-11-04
So ive booted up from live cd first and then installed karmic koala on my whole hard drive and so far so good,its working,thanks everyone who posted here for your help,very much appreciated.:D

---

### Post by grumpyoldgit on 2009-11-09
I also have Dell Optiplex GX260 with 1Gb RAM.
I found that 9.40 was stable but with 9.10 I have to press Esc when booting. Also the PC will freeze from time to time.
I have tried upgrading from 9.40 and also installing from scratch with a 9.10 CD.
I have tried three different hard drives just to be sure.
Each time, by the time I get to 9.10 I have the black screen unless I press Esc several times. Sometimes the freeze is after a few minutes. Sometimes after several hours.
I must have installed the system about 10 times now but with the same end result.

By the way, this is a clean install. I got rid of windows completely after the first few installs. 9.10 takes up all the hard drive.

---

