---
title: "10.04 email notification"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dps9682 on 2010-04-30
I love that email and chat are now built in to the shell, however I was a little upset to see that the mail part really is just a link to evolution and nothing more, evolution still has to be kept open which for me kind of kills the point of having a notification area if the window is open all the time, is there something I'm missing or do I have to always keep the window open?

also I tried alltray but that just adds a second email icon which looks out of place, thanks.

---

### Post by stinkinrich88 on 2010-05-01
same here. Mine also says I always have 0 new emails, even when evolutions says I have 2. 

I want the icon to go green on new mail! Like for a new chat!!!!!

---

### Post by stinkinrich88 on 2010-05-01
it's gotta be a bug. On the file menu in evolutions, there is an option to close window and an option to quit. Both do the same thing. Can't be right.

---

### Post by XerXeX on 2010-05-18
I have the same problem, anyone figured it out?

---

### Post by XerXeX on 2010-05-25
Anyone?

---

### Post by XerXeX on 2010-05-28
> **stinkinrich88 said:**
> it's gotta be a bug. On the file menu in evolutions, there is an option to close window and an option to quit. Both do the same thing. Can't be right.

Is it a bug or something we are missing here?

---

### Post by Zemblan on 2010-05-28
I think it's an annoying feature. Would be nice if one could get email notifications in the indicator applet without having to have evolution open in the same way that you get them in KDE without having to have the kmail window open all the time, but I don't think you can.
Although if you have gmail there is a nifty add-on which will allow notifications for that without evolution.

[http://gmnotify.sourceforge.net/](http://gmnotify.sourceforge.net/)

---

### Post by HomeSlixe on 2010-06-02
The developers of Indicator Applet seem to want that function too [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MessagingMenu/](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MessagingMenu/) and more is talked about email notification functionality here [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MessagingMenu/#Recommended%20behavior%20for%20e-mail%20clients](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MessagingMenu/#Recommended%20behavior%20for%20e-mail%20clients) 
considering Indicator Applet works differently ONLY for email I think it is only a matter of time before this feature is implemented! (I hope :S)

---

### Post by tom.swartz07 on 2010-06-02
if any of you use gmail, this small program will do exactly what you want: see the article about it on OMG!UBUNTU! 

The one I am talking about is #1 in the list, personally, #2 is kinda rough and gross.

[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/05/gmail-notifier-puts-gmail-in-your.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+d0od+(Omg!+Ubuntu](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/05/gmail-notifier-puts-gmail-in-your.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+d0od+(Omg!+Ubuntu)!)

---

### Post by HomeSlixe on 2010-06-02
ok upon further research it already works and is flawless for me with so long as evolution-indicator is installed!

my mistake worked for 1 brief second the way it should right after installing it... probobly glitched it... damn evolution

---

### Post by HomeSlixe on 2010-06-02
[tom.swartz07]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=831692") THAT IS SEXY!

---

### Post by HomeSlixe on 2010-06-02
using gmail and its notifier you can basically combine all your other email and either have them all replay *.gmail or you can specify the mail suffix... good bye evolution for good!

---

### Post by Noo 2 Ubuntoo on 2010-06-14
> **stinkinrich88 said:**
> same here. Mine also says I always have 0 new emails, even when evolutions says I have 2. 

I want the icon to go green on new mail! Like for a new chat!!!!!

It sounds like you have more than one e mail account. An unfortunate shortcoming/feature of the mail icon is that it can only look at one account at a time, which means it will only look at whichever account you highlight in Evolution and yes you have to leave Evolution running for the thing to work, so imho it's no good. 

I use Jean-Yves Lefort's mail notification. You can be notified on multiple accounts from this widget without opening Evolution, although it is another icon to go into your panel.

---

