---
title: "12.04 installed NO LAUNCHER"
date: 2012-11-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Kellemora on 2012-11-13
Against my better judgement, I bit the bullet and installed 12.04
Now my computer is useless, as expected.

NO LAUNCHER or if it is there, it's way off the screen in Limbo.

No EXIT button on any of the screens I open.

Display says Laptop, this is a Desktop, found no way to change that.
Screen Resolution is 1024x768, where I want it.
Background is reading as 1920x1280, no adjustment to change it, and my monitor does not go up that high either, according to the resolution settings displayed.
No way to shut down, other than using the button on the computer front.
No Access to ANY of the programs I had installed.
No Panels to keep things simple.
Cannot find anywhere to make changes.  I did open a thing call ALL SETTING, but there are no settings you can set in there worth anything.  And it has no Exit Button or sizing buttons.

Very sad with Ubuntu and their MANY DOWNGRADES since 8.04!
10.04 has and remains to be a nightmare.
Now there is no way to adjust anything or even shut the program down.
Somebody screwed up royally with this piece of GARBAGE, and that's the best thing I can say about Ubuntu since 8.04.........

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-11-13
> **Kellemora said:**
> 
Screen Resolution is 1024x768, where I want it.
Background is reading as 1920x1280, 


I believe this is the crux of the problem. All your panels and whatnot are most likely there, but outside the boundaries of the monitor. I must say, I haven't seen any other posts describing a similar problem.

What graphics card do you have, and do you have a proprietary driver installed for it?

Incidentally, to shut down safely, if you can get to a terminal, do
```
sudo shutdown -P now
```

---

### Post by Kellemora on 2012-11-13
Hi Audiomick
Thank you for responding.
I figured the launcher was outside of the visible monitor window.
And the ALL SETTINGS area I can get to, has no viable adjustments to change anything.
I CANNOT get to the TERMINAL, since I cannot get to the Launcher.
Graphics card is Nvidia and I'm using the Recommended Setting.
I think the problem is, the background setting is FIXED at 1920x1280 with no way to adjust it down to my monitor size, which is 1024x768.
I do have a flat panel LCD monitor, but my only choice is LAPTOP.
In Ubuntu 8.04 I had numerous screen sizes and resolutions to choose from.  10.04 reduced those to only a few.  Now 12.04 has only a few Out Of Range options, none affect the Background Setting STUCK at 1920x1280.
If the only screen I could get to provided a way to change that setting, it might solve part of the problems.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-11-13
try ctrl + alt + t to get a terminal.

If you do, try 
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```
to start the nvidia setup thing. You should be able to configure properly in  there, I think.

If that doesn't help, I'm afraid you'll have to wait for someone else to come along. I have to go to bed now, and am not likely to be back in for a couple of days. Good luck.

If a terminal should open, but be half outside of the visible part of the screen,  point the mouse at the bit you can see and try alt+F7 to grab it and drag it completely onto the visible part of the screen. Hit enter to release when you get the whole window onto the visible area. Same goes for the nvidia-settings window.

---

### Post by Kellemora on 2012-11-13
OK, I've now tried different drivers, the Launcher is still way off the screen, if it is there at all. 
At least now it is showing the correct monitor and all of it's settings.
But still no way to change the Background Setting.
And still no way to open up a window, other than the full screen setting, which you cannot get back out of without rebooting.  Ctrl-W does not work.

---

### Post by Kellemora on 2012-11-13
Thanks for the try Audiomik

The Ctrl-Alt-t does not work to bring up the terminal.

I was not at all happy with all the problems with 10.04 and have heard nothing but horror stories about 12.04, but thought I would give it a chance.

It's just a shame I didn't try it out on an unimportant computer, not the one I need to do my work on in the morning.

Looks like Ubuntu is forcing me to look elsewhere now.
Sad, because their 8.04 is what brought me back to Linux after an absence, it was a perfect turn-key install.  My only problems were learning the system after choking to death on that illogical Windoze for a few years.
Then 10.04 installed on three identical computers, turned out different on each of them, months of tweeking to get it to work right.
Now this!  An install with no settings to make it better.
Ubuntu has become worse than Windoze!

I installed Debian on another older computer, and other than having to install everything you need, which takes time, it hums along quite well.

Thanks for your help.  But it looks like Ubuntu is now History.

---

### Post by vegas89 on 2012-11-13
I once had the same problem, try ctrl + alt + t to get a terminal.  then enter unity --reset  this worked for me. Good luck  \\:D/

---

### Post by Kellemora on 2012-11-13
Thanks Vegas  Ctrl-Alt-T was not working either!
I did finally find a workaround all this mess by turning off automatic log-in, then playing with the different log-in options.  The Ubuntu 2D option finally showed the Launcher.  But the only way to get to the once nicely organized Programs, was to use the Dash, then change its setting from home to whatever those three lines next to the house Icon is, then scroll through hundreds of apps to find the one I was looking for.
At least I will be able to do my work tomorrow, then after work I think I'll try to figure out how to return to the classic gnome desktop.

As you could tell by my previous posts, Ubuntu has gone steadily downhill since version 8.04, I need my computers to do work, not play with them for hours.  I don't experiment with all the new gadgets and don't much care about them, especially when they make my work exceedingly harder to do.  
One of my favorite features was the separate Desktops all in a row in the bottom panel, ONE CLICK AWAY.  There are just way to many steps and wasted time trying to use that stupid launcher, wait for it to open, wait for it to scroll down to the Desktops, open them, then select which one you want.  Time is MONEY and I can't waste it playing around.  I need a computer that does what I want it to do, NOW, not after I play around for half an hour.

I've already set one computer up with Debian, not easy when your not a computer geek, but at least it works right, once you get everything you need installed.
Can't say that for the last Ubuntu DOWNGRADES, sorry, I can't call them Upgrades!

They've take an excellent OS and totally DESTROYED IT!
The question is WHY?????

I'll mark this SOLVED, as soon as I figure out how to do that again.

Thank You for your Input!

TTUL
Gary

---

### Post by vegas89 on 2012-11-13
You seem to be a bit more savoy with the work arounds  than I am. The best thing is there's usually three or four ways to get to where you need to go. I am constantly learning. I just had a  new desktop box built with plenty of horsepower and no OS installed. I downloaded 12.4 and burned an  install dvd from my wifes laptop. I have no prior experience with Ubuntu or anything else Linux. So far the 12.4 works great for me. I have talked with other Linux users and it seems everyone seems to have a favorite version. I looked at the 12.10 and as you say it seemed downgraded to me. I'm just gonna stick with what works best for me.

---

