---
title: "screen shaking"
date: 2008-06-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by phanipalagummi on 2008-06-11
My screen is shaking and i does not find these problem in 7.10(i m using 8.04),i want to know why it is happening like these,and it does not happend even in XP also( im dual booting),i tried to change resolution but there was no use,please any one help me

---

### Post by ukripper on 2008-06-11
> **phanipalagummi said:**
> My screen is shaking and i does not find these problem in 7.10(i m using 8.04),i want to know why it is happening like these,and it does not happend even in XP also( im dual booting),i tried to change resolution but there was no use,please any one help me

Can you post output of the following to start with:

```
lspci
```

and 
```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by CameO73 on 2008-06-11
I don't know what you mean by 'screen shaking', but I'm guessing it's a low Refresh Rate setting. Check your current setting by going to System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolutoin. The Refresh Rate is not very important for TFT screens (i.e. the flat monitors), but is very important for CRT screens (the 'TV like' monitors). Anything below 70Hz will be noticable (85 Hz or higher is preferred).

If you don't have the right refresh rate available, check out [this thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973). Be warned that setting incorrect refresh rates in the xorg.conf file can result in a 'out of range'-error from your monitor (resulting in a black screen).

---

### Post by phanipalagummi on 2008-06-11
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
EndSection





thanks for very fast reply.

---

### Post by ukripper on 2008-06-11
Can you go to system-->Preferences--> screen resolution and check what refresh rates you have got?

---

