---
title: "dvd-amd64 and amd64"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2008-04-26
I was thinking of trying out the amd64 version of Hardy. But downloading from [http://www.acc.umu.se/~mighty/ubuntu/](http://www.acc.umu.se/~mighty/ubuntu/) has to different versions. Whats the difference of:

ubuntu-8.04-desktop-amd64.iso.torrent and 

ubuntu-8.04-dvd-amd64.iso.torrent??

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-26
The desktop version will fit onto a single CD-R(W) and the DVD will only fit on a DVD as it is around 3.5GB in size :)

Hope this helps. And I assume you have a 64 bit processor :)

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2008-04-26
Thanks for your reply man. Yeah i have a 64 bit processor. I've been thinking of installing Ubuntu single boot. But my current setup is Dualboot Win XP X64 PRO and Hardy Heron. How can i best make a Ubuntu single boot from here on after downloading the torrent? Should i install from windows or from within the current Ubuntu for example?

I'm also a bit concerned because i only have an external dvd rom. Can this become a problem? Or is it simple enough if the disc (dvd/cd) is checked and ok after it's burned?

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-26
I'm not sure how installing from an external disc would work. If you can boot from it, it should be fine :)

And if you just want Ubuntu on your PC, make sure you back everything up onto a separate drive (preferably external) or to CD's/DVD's so you won't lose anything. It's simple enough to install

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2008-04-26
I'm going to make a backup on an external HDD. I have three internal drives. How will the installer detect these? I reckon it'll detect them automatically. But all howtos i have found so far only explains how the install proceeds on one HDD.

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-26
The installer will detect all of them, and only install on 1 drive, however you can format the other 2 drives if you like later on, or from the Live CD Session :)

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2008-04-26
Nice. And after I've backed up my drives, if i understand everything correct, i can just make a clean install from the live cd from within Ubuntu!?

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-26
If you've backed everything up, and are 100% sure about that, then yes.

As long as I don't get the blame for any data loss ;)

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2008-04-26
I'm a bit more confident now. Thanks a million man. I'm just a bit nerves since I've never had a Ubuntu single boot. And far from a successful 64 bit. But I'll give it a try after I've managed to backup my 600 GBs. Boring job. But all the more fun once it's done. Kinda tired of Win XP no. Installing should be a breeze now. Getting my ATI X700 card to work with tv out and working overlay (with compiz) should be more like hell i think. Hehe....I might just go for the big desktop option. Not quit sure yet.

Edit: while I'm asking newbie questions here: How large swap do you recommend? I'm running a AMD Athlon 64 Processor 3000+ 1,181 GHz, 3,00 GB of RAM. Three internal HDDs (aprox 600 GB) and a 750 GB Backup disc.

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-26
ATi support is getting better, you shouldn't have too much difficulty.

And if you want to use Windows for something you can always try Wine - or install it in a Virtual Machine (you'll need a relatively powerful machine for that though)

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2008-04-26
Yeah i know. Everything depends on the external dvd drive. If it's possible to make a clean install of Ubuntu 64 from the existing Ubuntu partition (or from the existing XP partition) all should run smooth i think.

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-26
Sure :)

Let me know how it goes (I'll subscribe to this thread :))

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2008-04-26
Yes man, I'll do that. I'll use the next week for tidying up and taking backup of everything. Then I'll give it a shot.

With luck I might be back at the end of the week (i really do hope so) :)

Regards,

Peaks

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-26
I look forward to hearing from you :D

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2008-04-28
I'm back on my clean Hardy 64 install. The screen resolution is all wrong. I haven't installed any new drivers. I'm running a clean system. The resolution is 1280 X 768. The right resolution shoud be 1280 X 1024. The screens and graphics preferences doesn't help at all. * Edit: Now running with 1280 X 960 Res :) Strange. But better than the last res.

Xorg output:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"no"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"ATI Radeon (fglrx)"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"ati"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"ATI"
	Option		"MergedFB"	"off"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1280x1024"
	Horizsync	31.5-64.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1280x960@60" 102.1 1280 1360 1496 1712 960 961 964 994 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1280	1024
		Modes		"1280x1024@60"	"1280x960@60"	"1024x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"	"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"dri"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"ATI Radeon (fglrx)"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"ati"
	Screen	1
	Vendorname	"ATI"
	Option		"MergedFB"	"off"
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

This is priority one for me since I'm also using this machine for work :) So i hope to see some help about how to proceed from here on.

In addition i think Hardy is only installed on one of my three HDDs. The two others i have to mount. And the files from my windows install are still there. This i want to fix as soon as the resolution problem is done with.

Compiz is working nicely. And i want to keep it.

I have a restricted ATI driver in the hardware drivers manager (not in use).

For starters. Anyone have some tips and tricks?

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-29
What happens if you try to install the restricted ATI Drivers? It might fix your screen (could break compiz...not sure)

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2008-04-29
He, I'll bet money on it breaking Compiz. So I hoped to first get the right resolution so i can find out of every other small things before I once again started battling with the mystical ATI drivers. You can see how many threads are commenting ATI problems. There wite a few.

Isn't there a way to manually force the right resolution in xorg?

_______________--

Edit:

Tried the proprietary driver from the restricted driver manager. Didn't work at all. Broke Compiz and made me stuck in 800 X 600 resolution. Nightmare de lux once again. Uninstalled the driver. No difference.

Installed fglrx. got my screen resolution back. The screens and graphics manager still says it's 1280 X 960. And not 1280 X 1024 which is what i want. If I try it i get a black screen and a message telling me 1600X1024 out of range. Then it hangs there before it goes back to the desktop with the resolution before i tried 1280X1024.

Compiz is still broken. Tried to reinstall via synaptic. Didn't work. No compiz kinda takes the fun away....beginning to get disappointed now. Been working all day on this and other small things. Not sure at all how to proceed. Maybe envy?

---

