---
title: "10.04 and webcams - a step back?"
date: 2010-06-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pablolie on 2010-06-24
i have 2 10.04 systems with webcams (both by Logitech, both Quickcam Pro (a 9000 and an older Vision Pro). I know the 9000 worked under 9.10, but with 10.04 they don't work (neither under Cheese nor Skype or anything). 

it seems to me that 10.04 represents a step back when it comes to webcam support -a traditional ubuntu achilles heel- but i can't find much info about what has changed.

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-06-27
try this for cheese

LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so cheese 


try this it it dont come on then that

open a terminal type, gstreamer-properties click enter
click video try v4l1 and v4l2
click the bottom test button for each 1

cheese has a nice help file look in the faq's

hope this helps

---

### Post by GlazedWicker on 2010-06-27
I'm surprised your webcams aren't supported under lucid. I've tested several and they all worked flawlessly.

---

### Post by calmsiva on 2010-06-28
Yes Sir,

you are right.  previous - in 9.04 & 9.10 - I had trouble in using the integrated webcam in my lenovo 3000 G530 laptop - core2duo - 2GB.....  CHEESE - did not recognised the integrated webcam.

But, 10.04, with CHEESE - just works fine, every time.   Could use the webcam - even while in SKYPE (now that SKYPE has come to Ubuntu repo, so no problem)

---

### Post by pablolie on 2010-07-24
That is not my experience at all.

None,and I mean NONE of my 4 computers with 10.04 on them, have a working webcam now. Whether built in or different Logitech models - *none* work. And changing the video source with gstreamer-properties doesnot make a change at all.

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-07-25
do you have gstreamer good,bad,ugly and 10 installed

---

### Post by pablolie on 2010-08-04
yes, i have it all installed.

---

### Post by mojo risin on 2010-08-04
I have got a Phillips Webcam for laptops and it is working.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-08-04
I have the same issue .. Logitech 9000 on 10.04 .. Doesn't work in Skype .. works fine in Cheese and audio checks out .. so the issue is NOT Ubuntu!!

Skype is to blame as their program does not even turn the camera  on!

---

### Post by SGAZ on 2010-08-05
I was having a problem with Logitech webcam that used to work then stopped working (no video in gstreamer-properties (audio yes, video no), Cheese, Skype, or Empathy).

I went to synaptics and reinstalled gstreamer ugly, ugly multiverse, bad and bad multiverse (they were already installed) and suddenly my Webcam worked again in Gstreamer-properties, Cheese, and Skype (at least in the options).  Jury's still out on Empathy.

Good luck,

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-08-05
That doesn't work either.

---

### Post by corrytonapple on 2010-08-05
> **pablolie said:**
> i have 2 10.04 systems with webcams (both by Logitech, both Quickcam Pro (a 9000 and an older Vision Pro). I know the 9000 worked under 9.10, but with 10.04 they don't work (neither under Cheese nor Skype or anything). 

it seems to me that 10.04 represents a step back when it comes to webcam support -a traditional ubuntu achilles heel- but i can't find much info about what has changed.
I think that all the .04s introduce new features and all the .10 perfect the new features. It will all be fixed in 10.10. Also, there are a lot of threads on this.

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-08-05
[oldsoundguy]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=438031")

did you only do the upgrade frome 910 to 10.04
you did not install frome a disk
that way it saves all your old settings and the cam did not work in/on 910

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-08-05
> **no2498 said:**
> [oldsoundguy]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=438031")

did you only do the upgrade frome 910 to 10.04
you did not install frome a disk
that way it saves all your old settings and the cam did not work in/on 910


I updated from 8.04 to 10.04, did not use the disk. .. had to remove xorg.conf  because it brought a bunch of unusable trash with it .. that fixed my display.  That MAY have done a number on the web cam, but doubt it.

But no joy with Skype.

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-08-05
Have you tried running..
```
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so skype 
```




and you can install v4l2ucp from synaptic then run it to configure your webcam, may improve performance.

I found that using manual exposure and increasing the exposure value improved the frame rate.
You have to fiddle with one then adjust other settings to find the right balance for performance.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-08-05
> **robert shearer said:**
> Have you tried running..
```
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so skype 
```




and you can install v4l2ucp from synaptic then run it to configure your webcam, may improve performance.

I found that using manual exposure and increasing the exposure value improved the frame rate.
You have to fiddle with one then adjust other settings to find the right balance for performance.

That doesn't work either.  Get the same sign in screen I always get  .. sign in and try and run the test connection .. and no  connection.

No need to improve performance if it won't even TURN ON in Skype .. as noted WORKS in Cheese just fine and can be adjusted in that program.
(the Logitech is an HD camera .. had to turn down the resolution and the mess with the frame rate to decrease the performance lag, but did so.)

Skype .. not a clue as it does nothing!

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-08-06
success reported here......

 [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9683862#post9683862](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9683862#post9683862)

using logitech 9000, 10.04, and skype.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-08-06
> **robert shearer said:**
> success reported here......

 [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9683862#post9683862](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9683862#post9683862)

using logitech 9000, 10.04, and skype.

Not enough info .. and wrong info on the secondary link .. improper code on the code itself .. "no such file" .. and the steps to get into Skype itself is wrong.

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-08-06
> **oldsoundguy said:**
> Not enough info .. and wrong info on the secondary link .. improper code on the code itself .. "no such file" .. and the steps to get into Skype itself is wrong.

Well, from the secondary link, I have tested it again and it works.

 this command in a terminal...
```
sh -c 'export XLIB_SKIP_ARGB_VISUALS=1 && LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so /usr/bin/skype'
```

opens the skype log-in and once logged in my Logitec works for the test call.

From there it is a simple matter of opening the menu editor and changing the command that calls the skype app to the one above.

 where you are getting the > "no such file" from ??

and what does this mean.. > and the steps to get into Skype itself is wrong.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-08-06
> **robert shearer said:**
> Well, from the secondary link, I have tested it again and it works.

 this command in a terminal...
```
sh -c 'export XLIB_SKIP_ARGB_VISUALS=1 && LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so /usr/bin/skype'
```

opens the skype log-in and once logged in my Logitec works for the test call.

see comment #1


From there it is a simple matter of opening the menu editor and changing the command that calls the skype app to the one above.

see comment #2


 where you are getting the  from ??

and what does this mean..

comment 1:
.....not for me .. camera is dead no video no sound and no connect.

comment 2:
And just how is this done?  Right click on applications and selecting Edit Menu then I get to Internet and thus Skype .. but where do we go from there? .. there is no "menu editor".

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-08-06
> **oldsoundguy said:**
> comment 1:
.....not for me .. camera is dead no video no sound and no connect.
But when you run the command in the terminal Skype opens and you can log-in ??

What error messages are there from the terminal when you try to test the camera ?. 

You may have altered a configuration file at some stage or you have a hardware conflict.
I would be interested in the outputs of ..
```
lsusb
``` run now. Then reboot and run it again.

**Until we get the cam working then editing the menu is pointless.**
However this is how it would work......

> comment 2:
And just how is this done?  Right click on applications and selecting Edit Menu then I get to Internet and thus Skype .. but where do we go from there? .. there is no "menu editor".

Right click on  "Applications" from your main panel and select 'edit menus'.

In the window that opens, on the left column, select 'internet'.
Then in the next window,from the right column, highlight Skype.
click on properties at the far right and the box that opens will have a 'command' entry (I think the default is 'skype-wrapper')
Replace this (copy and paste) with the command I noted earlier.

so just so we are clear, **don't modify the menu** until we find what command will get your setup working.

Once you have rebooted and posted the two lsusb outputs you could try the command from the terminal again.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-08-06
YES .. the Skype sign in comes up, I sign in, my contacts list comes up including the test number.   But the camera fails to turn on, and the microphone fails to turn on.

(thing works fine in Cheese)

output lsusb:

Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 046d:0990 Logitech, Inc. QuickCam Pro 9000
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

after reboot:
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 046d:0990 Logitech, Inc. QuickCam Pro 9000
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-08-06
AH....... login to Skype and at the **bottom left** of the Skype window there is a little blue skype logo.

Right click on it and choose 'options'

The window that opens has several options on the left.
 
Look in sound devices and video devices and see if there is anything obvious that needs changing.

If you need help from there take a screenshot of each of those windows resize the screenshots and post using 'manage attachments' from 'additional options' found below the screen where you type in your forum posts.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-08-06
> **robert shearer said:**
> AH....... login to Skype and at the **bottom left** of the Skype window there is a little blue skype logo.

Right click on it and choose 'options'

The window that opens has several options on the left.
 
Look in sound devices and video devices and see if there is anything obvious that needs changing.

If you need help from there take a screenshot of each of those windows resize the screenshots and post using 'manage attachments' from 'additional options' found below the screen where you type in your forum posts.

Screenshots not needed .. when I test the camera, it comes on .. sound, however will not test.  And can not call out to the Skype test number
Sound preferences are all Pulse audio.

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-08-06
Great, nearly there !

Open skype and get back to the 'sound devices' window.
click on 'make a test call' and then go to your speaker icon on the main panel, right click and select 'sound preferences'

In the window that opens select 'input' and then your webcam.
Select the tab at the right 'applications' and check that the volume is turned up.

Do all that while the testcall is happening. You may need to start the test call a couple of times or so and recheck the new settings.

Finally run the test call and see if it all works now.

If so then thats probably all you need to do.
 Don't worry about changing the menu command from the earlier posts, the standard one you have now should be fine.

I am off to collect my better half from the airport but will check in when I get back in an hour or so.

Cheers,
Bob.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-08-06
Nope!!

Make a call ends almost immediately .. get the weird Skype signal of unable to complete.

I use the Pulse audio control and it shows my settings for the Quick Cam Pro at 74%.

No, it still is dead in the water .. camera does not come on by default.  It only comes on when I test it with the previous test program.

Baffling! 

(I am West coast US .. time for my beauty sleep.)

BTW .. North or South island?  Nephew & family live in Raglan. WERE in Christchurch for a while.

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-08-06
Edit...check that you have libv4l-0 installed and if not then install it.

ok, sounds like you have had it produce **some** video and sound, yes ?.

If so reboot,  then recheck the audio and video devices to see that the settings have stuck, close Skype, and then run the original command from the terminal.

```
sh -c 'export XLIB_SKIP_ARGB_VISUALS=1 && LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so /usr/bin/skype'
```

Login and try the test call. If it works then fine, edit the menu as noted to use that command to start Skype..

If it still cuts out look at the output in the terminal that is still running and copy and paste that here.The error messages may help.

The only other question I have is where did you get Skype from ??.

Did you download it from the Skype site  ?, or is it the one from Synaptic package manager. ??

(The other thread I linked, the O/P was using the Ubuntu version installed from the Ubuntu repositories through Synaptic and so am I.)


Bottom of the North. Used to be Hokitika in the South.(opposite coast to Christchurch and a 3 hour drive.)

---

### Post by TNT1 on 2010-08-06
I found the exact oppposite. Bought a Labtec 2200 webcam, went home, plugged into usb, opened up skype, and got a skype notification that my video was now working... Worked fine. Plugged the webcam into wife's laptop, same thing, just works.:D

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-08-06
OK .. somewhat awake!! LOL

Robert, know you are not up yet .. BUT

Still no joy.  Removed Skype (there was still a grayed out icon but not logo in the applications>internet, so not sure if all was removed or not)
Installed from the repositories .. open screen is same .. Skype 2.1 beta.

Same results .. can use the Skype utility to turn the camera on .. no audio on the test when I tell it to "make a sound".  Punch up the test number and get the "can't complete call" sound.

It HAS to be the Skype program itself.  As we have proven the camera works in everything else Ubuntu and even within Skype when tested!

ADD:
The only way I can fully shut the program off is TO RE_BOOT .. it stays running in the background somewhere....close DOES NOT WORK. And, because I have not set it up that way .. NO ICON in the panel .. really only want it to open when I want to and CLOSE when I want to.

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-08-07
> Removed Skype (there was still a grayed out icon but not logo in the applications>internet, so not sure if all was removed or not)

OK, I don't think that you removed the old Skype completely and there may be a configuration that is subverting the new one..

So, go to the terminal and run

```
sudo apt-get purge skype
```[COLOR="Black"][/COLOR]

then go to Places=>Home folder and select 'view' from the taskbar.

check (tick) 'show hidden files' and there will be a whole lot more folders and files visible in your Home folder.
scroll down to find the folder [COLOR="Red"].Skype[/COLOR] note that it has a "." in front of it.
If you don't find it that is ok, it must have been purged already.
If you do find it then right click on it and delete it.

Now all trace of skype should have been removed from your system.

Download it afresh and go through the set-up steps from posts #23, 25, & 27.

If it still doesn't work then I start to run out of ideas.
We know the Camera works and we know others can run the application using that camera and Ubuntu version you run.

Other than that it could be something related to your computer hardware, permissions, or internet configuration.

Do you run a firewall, if so which one...?

Are you behind a home router or on a shared connection..?

Do you dual boot on this machine and if so can the other o/s run skype ..??.

Do you have another computer there that runs skype successfully ..?

When was the last time you were able to log-in to your skype account...??


(from post 27, what was the error message from the terminal when skype failed ??)

---

### Post by egalvan on 2010-08-07
> **corrytonapple said:**
> I think that **all the .04s** introduce new features and **all the .4s** perfect everything.
 This will all be fixed in **10.4**.

This is not the proper numbering scheme...

here are two citations to Ubuntu Numbering

[https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/about-ubuntu/C/version-numbers.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/about-ubuntu/C/version-numbers.html)
[http://adventuresinswitching.blogspot.com/2008/01/ubuntu-version-numbers-and-release.html](http://adventuresinswitching.blogspot.com/2008/01/ubuntu-version-numbers-and-release.html)


>  Also, there are a lot of threads on this.

Yep, since the manufacturers refuse (or can't be bothered) to release the hardware specs, the software boys will lag far behind...
but they are doing an admiral job in light of the difficulties.

And since Skype is closed & proprietary, problems abound there, also.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-08-07
> And since Skype is closed & proprietary, problems abound there, also.

This is a known fact.  But SOME have been able to get the program up and running with the equipment I listed .. just trying to find our way around and fiddle with it until it finally works.

PERSONALLY, it is a matter of "if it is there and I want to use it, let's see if we can get it going."  This is NOT a deal breaker bug as far as I am concerned as I have cameras on other computers that can be used and THEY work.

I find some bugs just annoying and inconvenient.  Like having to go into terminal to re-start cups after booting .. not all the time, just some of the time, or having to reboot several times before my home network shows up, or having to re-install BOINC in order to start it up after a re-boot .. those are much more annoying to me.  Still and all, I really like 10.04.  
Know that in the long term (since this is a LTS), THOSE issues will be fixed as they are known bugs.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-08-10
Thought I would give this a nudge and see if any body else has an idea.

---

### Post by pablolie on 2010-08-14
In the end, plugging in a different webcam solved the issue. Clearly the Logitech camera (m/n V-UAR33) is utterly and totally incompatible with Ubuntu 10.04. I would not have expected a Microsoft cam (LifeCam NX-6000) to be more compatible, but it is, and works.

Should have tried it earlier. Would have saved me shelling out $70 on Windows 7 that now I don really need to install on my Mom´s machine!

So my advice before you waste a lot of time fiddling with gstreamer stuff (which I did), is simply... get another webcam. 

So for the sake of capturing info, let me repeat that the Microsoft Lifecam NX-6000 works like a charm.

---

### Post by pablolie on 2010-08-17
Wow, now I know without a doubt something very fishy is going on with video support in 10.04.

The stuff that worked 2 days ago is now totally broken, again. Nothing was touched or changed, but now the same webcam that I saw work perfectly is again utterly unable to show video in gstreamer-properties, cheese or skype. They all worked.

So the subsystem is unstable. Until then, this machine will have to run Windows 7.

---

### Post by ormonde on 2010-08-18
I am having the same problem. My camera is a Logitech 9000 which had been working perfectly. However, I have just had to reinstall Ubuntu 10.04. on my computer. My Skype video which was working fine now causes a crash of Skype when I test it under "Options". On "Testing" the camera, the camera light comes on for a short time and then Skype crashes the panel disappears along with the icon on the top panel. My web camera works fine with "Cheese"; "Gstreamer-properties"; "Luvcview" and "Kopote". I have tried all the suggestions give above but to no avail. If I use the following in a terminal I get the following:

[B]mike@ormonde:~$ sh -c 'export XLIB_SKIP_ARGB_VISUALS=1 && LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so /usr/bin/skype'
QInotifyFileSystemWatcherEngine::addPaths: inotify_add_watch failed: No such file or directory
Segmentation fault[/B]

Also, strangely, the very same version of the camera functions perfectly with Skype on my Wife's computer using Ubuntu 10.04

Has anyone a suggestion on how to resolve this problem?

---

### Post by atherakhia on 2010-08-18
guys, i have installed Kubuntu on my Sony Vaio, and the motion eye camera isn't working.
I can see it in Cheese (kinda), as it is upside down.
Can't use it in apps like aMSN tho.

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by Fireball533 on 2010-08-18
I've had this similar issue in Skype.  I also have a Logitech 9000 and it works fine in Cheese and Guvcview.  Also just upgraded to Ubuntu 10.04.  I had the issue where the test video wouldn't work, but others could see my video, but I couldn't see myself (just a white box in the corner).  I tried the fix suggested by others with the LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so command, but it crashes my Skype when I hit test video every time.  I had to remove it from a file I created in my /usr/local/bin/skype that was made during one my attempts to fix it.  I had to find this file and delete it before I could run Skype again.  At least it now works, but still can't see myself, but I can still have a video call.

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-08-19
> **ormonde said:**
> 
**mike@ormonde:~$ sh -c 'export XLIB_SKIP_ARGB_VISUALS=1 && LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/[B]libv4l**/v4l1compat.so /usr/bin/skype'
QInotifyFileSystemWatcherEngine::addPaths: inotify_add_watch failed: No such file or directory
Segmentation fault[/B]

Check that libv4l-0 is installed and if not then install it.

> Also, strangely, the very same version of the camera functions perfectly with Skype on my Wife's computer using Ubuntu 10.04

Check that libv4l-0 is installed ;)

---

### Post by ormonde on 2010-08-19
Yes I do have libv4l-0 installed version 0.6.4-1ubuntu.

I have now tried a slight modification which allows the test to show my video, however now if I try to make a video call then it crashes

If I start Skype from the terminal it comes up with:
"QInotifyFileSystemWatcherEngine::addPaths: inotify_add_watch failed: No such file or directory"
whatever that means. which was in my original post.

---

### Post by ormonde on 2010-08-19
I should have said that I used this method to get this far:

4) Downloaded latest Skype from:

[http://www.skype.com/intl/pt/downloa.../linux/choose/](http://www.skype.com/intl/pt/downloa.../linux/choose/)
(of course, get the skype download according your language, mine is portuguese)

The downloaded file was skype-ubuntu-intrepid_2.1.0.81-1_i386.deb .

5) Install Skype (simply clicked the downloaded file and select install).

6) Renamed the skype executable located on /usr/bin to skype.real on the same directory

7) Created a batch file under /usr/bin named skype containing:

#!/bin/sh
export XLIB_SKIP_ARGB_VISUALS=1
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so skype.real "$@"
exit 0

8_) Made this script executable by chmod

chmod +x skype

---

### Post by ormonde on 2010-08-24
I have now found that if I remove the Nvidia-nouveau driver from my Ubuntu 10.04 installation and just use the restricted Nvidia graphics driver Skype seems to work with my Logitech web camera. Hopefully that has completely solved the problem

---

### Post by greenpeace on 2010-08-26
Having sat up all night faffing with the microdia drivers, I finally got it to (kind of) work, though the picture was terrible and it wasn't working in Skype.

I just tried this... 

```
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so skype
```

and it worked a treat!  

Now, can anyone tell me... how does one make it so that this lib is used everytime Skype starts?

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-08-26
> **ormonde said:**
> I have now found that if I remove the Nvidia-nouveau driver from my Ubuntu 10.04 installation and just use the restricted Nvidia graphics driver Skype seems to work with my Logitech web camera. Hopefully that has completely solved the problem


Yes, this works .. provided you can get the NVidia current to WORK.  Two machines it worked just fine, but my MAIN computer was a no go!
I get the "activated but not in use" message in the hardware manager.  And it will not go "in use".  It is a KNOWN bug and been reported dozens of times .. yet to be fixed.
On the two machines where the above quote WORKED, Skype works.
So the issue is with the default Nouveau driver as it works with the restricted driver in most cases.

---

### Post by JakcV on 2010-08-31
I have some problem here. I am using compaq v3794tu laptop with a Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd VGA 30fps UVC Webcam. The webcam cannot be use even in 'CHEESE' 

p/s: I do some searching and notice that my webcam is using the same driver with logitech 900. I have used Ubuntu since 8.04LTS and i update with every version(fresh install). All the previous versions do not have problem to use the webcam, until Lucid 

```
lsusb
Bus 007 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 006 Device 003: ID 046d:c019 Logitech, Inc. Optical Tilt Wheel Mouse
Bus 006 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 004: ID 04f2:b016 Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd VGA 30fps UVC Webcam
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

```

from the lsusb, my webcam is recognize in ubuntu. 
at the gstreamer-properties, when doing the test for v4l and v4l2, it pop up "Cannot identify device '/dev/video0'"

then, I try the code
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so cheese

the "Cheese" still fail to use the webcam.

p/s: I have gstreamer ugly, ugly-multiversal, bad, bad-multiversal installed.

---

### Post by firebreather on 2010-09-09
My webcam seems to be also messing up currently, unfortunately...just as I need it....

It /does/ work in Skype, but Cheese just closes before it can completely open, and gstreamer-properties says that it "Failed getting controls attributes on device '/dev/video0'."

I'm at a bit of a loss of what to do right now.

---

### Post by rapattack1 on 2010-09-23
My Logitech Quickcam is not working in Skype either but does now work in Cheese. Skype shows that it is there but when i press the 'test' button it doesn't do anything. I have waited and waited quite a few times. Nothing happened.

From lsusb i get 
Bus 003 Device 003: ID 046d:0850 Logitech, Inc. QuickCam Web

and lsmod i get
Module                  Size  Used by
binfmt_misc             6587  1 
snd_usb_audio          75765  1 
snd_usb_lib            15801  1 snd_usb_audio
snd_intel8x0           25588  3 
snd_hwdep               5412  1 snd_usb_audio
snd_ac97_codec        100646  1 snd_intel8x0
ac97_bus                1002  1 snd_ac97_codec
snd_pcm_oss            35308  0 
snd_mixer_oss          13746  1 snd_pcm_oss
snd_pcm                70662  5 snd_usb_audio,snd_intel8x0,snd_ac97_codec,snd_pcm_oss
snd_seq_dummy           1338  0 
snd_seq_oss            26726  0 
snd_seq_midi            4557  0 
snd_rawmidi            19056  2 snd_usb_lib,snd_seq_midi
snd_seq_midi_event      6003  2 snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi
snd_seq                47263  6 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi,snd_seq_midi_event
snd_timer              19098  2 snd_pcm,snd_seq
snd_seq_device          5700  5 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq
gspca_stv06xx          23274  0 
fbcon                  35102  71 
tileblit                2031  1 fbcon
font                    7557  1 fbcon
bitblit                 4707  1 fbcon
softcursor              1189  1 bitblit
ppdev                   5259  0 
nvidia               4701243  32 
gspca_main             21199  1 gspca_stv06xx
snd                    54148  19 snd_usb_audio,snd_intel8x0,snd_hwdep,snd_ac97_codec,snd_pcm_oss,snd_mixer_oss,snd_pcm,snd_seq_oss,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq,snd_timer,snd_seq_device
led_class               2864  0 
parport_pc             25962  1 
videodev               34361  1 gspca_main
vga16fb                11385  1 
v4l1_compat            13251  1 videodev
vgastate                8961  1 vga16fb
psmouse                63245  0 
soundcore               6620  1 snd
serio_raw               3978  0 
joydev                  8708  0 
snd_page_alloc          7076  2 snd_intel8x0,snd_pcm
intel_agp              24119  1 
agpgart                31724  2 nvidia,intel_agp
shpchp                 28820  0 
lp                      7028  0 
parport                32635  3 ppdev,parport_pc,lp
floppy                 53016  0 
usbhid                 36110  0 
hid                    67032  1 usbhid
tg3                   109324  0 

I have the nvidia driver installed and i know there have been some problems there. 1st boot/1st session and there is no bar up the top/bottom of the desktop. 2nd boot and everything is ok. This is a new(3days ago) of Ubuntu 10.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2010-09-23
have you already tried the previously menitoned command?:
 
```
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so skype
```

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-09-23
JakcV
make sure you have good bad ugly and 10
p/s: I have gstreamer ugly, ugly-multiversal, bad, bad-multiversal installed.

---

### Post by rapattack1 on 2010-09-24
OK i plugged in a different cam that has better resolution and i did the 
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so skype
command 
I can't remember what i got but skype did come up. 
I then had to download and install something else and i can't remember what that was. It was to adjust some settings. After that everything worked. But today when i log in neither cheese or skype are showing the camera. So i have to bring that thing up again that you change from mplayer to skype. Dunno why it didn't stick. Will search through this thread again!

Ah i found it by going backwards in the commands i used in the terminal. Linux is so clever!!!! It is v4l2ucp
I had to change mplayer to skype and adjust the settings for the camera there. Now i am using a shaw nightvision camera but it is a bit too dark even though the room has light and not sure if the resolution is what it should be. 640 x whatever....hmmmm I hope this time it sticks!!!!

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-09-24
rapattack1
you can set the brightness in cheese

---

### Post by rapattack1 on 2010-09-25
Yeah but it is different to the settings for skype. I booted back up twice more and the settings don't stick for Skype so the camera doesn't work again. I have to keep doing those damn commands. How do i get it to stick?

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-09-25
i have seen how to make it into a file but i do not use skype sorry i did not save it
i would ask my own ? how to make a file for skype

---

### Post by rapattack1 on 2010-09-25
OK will make a new thread thanks :0)

---

### Post by JakcV on 2010-11-30
I found out that the module uvcvideo for my webcam is not loaded after open the cheese. Then I tried to load it with "sudo modprode uvcvideo", then an amazing thing appear, I execute 'cheese' again, and the webcam blue light is ON and my webcam is working. (^o^)

I think the logitech webcam can also be solved with the same method. 

Is there any method to load it from the begining? Add the command at the .profile at the home?

---

### Post by rapattack1 on 2010-12-02
Odd i am getting a new problem. I had gone back to Ubuntu 9 and the webcam worked well. For the last couple of days though i was getting in cheese a black screen and if i played around with the lens of the cam and waved my finger in front of the lens it produced a kelidoscope of colours. I tried with two different webcams with the same results. I also have tried to see if skype will take either webcam and it won't. Says 'no devices found'. 

I did these commands:
carla@carla-desktop:~$ sudo modprode uvcvideo
[sudo] password for carla: 
sudo: modprode: command not found
carla@carla-desktop:~$ sudo modprobe uvcvideo
WARNING: Deprecated config file /etc/modprobe.conf, all config files belong into /etc/modprobe.d/.
carla@carla-desktop:~$ lsusb
Bus 001 Device 006: ID 04a9:1904 Canon, Inc. 
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 003: ID 04b3:310b IBM Corp. Red Wheel Mouse
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 045e:00dd Microsoft Corp. 
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
carla@carla-desktop:~$

---

### Post by JakcV on 2010-12-07
for the first command why you don't have the modprobe command? but second line you have?

Your webcam doesn't seem to be detected by your ubuntu. For my situation, my webcam is detected but, it doesn't have the correct module to be loaded. Sorry, I am also a beginner, can't help any thing. 

Bus 007 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 006 Device 002: ID 046d:c019 Logitech, Inc. Optical Tilt Wheel Mouse
Bus 006 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
**Bus 002 Device 002: ID 04f2:b016 Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd VGA 30fps UVC Webcam**
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

---

### Post by rapattack1 on 2010-12-07
OK now Skype is detecting the camera and with some manual adjustment of the lens it is working again. Although very dark! In cheese the kaleidoscope of colours is there again. I took a video of it but it is in *.ogv format so will have to do a snap....ah ok figured it out and it is attached now.

Now i get this :
carla@carla-desktop:~$ lsusb
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 005 Device 007: ID 0c45:6128 Microdia PC Camera (SN9C325 + OM6802)
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 04a9:1904 Canon, Inc. 
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 003 Device 003: ID 04b3:310b IBM Corp. Red Wheel Mouse
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 045e:00dd Microsoft Corp. 
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub

Am i right that it is seeing two cameras?

What is modprobe? I am still very much a beginner i think too:0)

---

### Post by JakcV on 2010-12-10
this is the definition of modprobe - program to add and remove modules from the Linux Kernel.
I used modprobe, because I know that the uvcvideo driver of my webcam is not loaded automatically. modprobe is the program that come in default with ubuntu and other gnu linux, even you might not use it.

---

### Post by rapattack1 on 2010-12-10
OK that makes sense. Gee i have so much to learn! 

Still getting the other problems i also mentioned :0)

Well i gave up because there were too many other problems and now i have Ubuntu 10.04 installed. Webcam now works with Cheese and Skype. Just wish it was brighter because the image is so dark. This camera has night vision. Used to use it as a security camera with my windows machine :0)

---

