---
title: "No hardware drivers ??"
date: 2009-01-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by martrum on 2009-01-27
Hi, New to Ubuntu in fact only installed yesterday so I'm suprised I got this far !

All seems OK except I'm stuck on 800x600 screen resolution. That is the highest choice available in the settings menu.

I've checked System>Administration>Hardware Drivers but it says there are none installed !

In Windows I would be able to select a hardware device and search for drivers for it. How do I do that for the graphics card in Ubuntu ?

Thanks.

---

### Post by mhh91 on 2009-01-27
what is your graphics card?

---

### Post by martrum on 2009-01-27
Its a nVidia Corp NV5M64

---

### Post by stchman on 2009-01-27
> **martrum said:**
> Its a nVidia Corp NV5M64

Enable the Nvidia driver in System--->Administration--->Hardware Drivers

---

### Post by martrum on 2009-01-27
But there are NO drivers listed !!! Thats the problem !!

---

### Post by stchman on 2009-01-27
> **martrum said:**
> But there are NO drivers listed !!! Thats the problem !!

I Googled NV5M64 and it appears that your card is an old Riva TNT2 card.

If that is the case you are going to need the old nvidia drivers.  I recommend the 71.84 drivers.  Try this for size if indeed your card is a TNT2.

```

sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-71
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings
sudo nvidia-glx-config enable

```

Make sure all your repositories are enabled.

---

### Post by martrum on 2009-01-27
OK - that last command 'not recognised'

I do have a Nvidia X Server setting box now in the Admin tools. When I open it, it says Not running Nvidia X driver. Please configure the X file...

How do I do that ?

---

### Post by stchman on 2009-01-27
> **martrum said:**
> OK - that last command 'not recognised'

I do have a Nvidia X Server setting box now in the Admin tools. When I open it, it says Not running Nvidia X driver. Please configure the X file...

How do I do that ?

Did you reboot?  The installation of the nvidia-glx installs new kernel modules.

---

### Post by martrum on 2009-01-28
Here is a copy of my config file.....

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Thu Jun 26 06:22:40 UTC 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection



Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

