---
title: "10.10 Partition Table --Clean Install"
date: 2011-03-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by spinniker on 2011-03-03
I preface this by saying that I am a brand new linux user from Win7 so I apologize ahead of time if this seems to be in the wrong forum area etc., or if this has been posted somewhere else that I haven't seen.

System Specs:
Dell Precision M2300
4gb Memory
Nvidia Quadro Fx330
Western Digital 320gb (brand new)

I used Unetbootin to flash 10.10 Live x64 to a USB stick and have been installing without problems repeatedly.

I initially I followed the setup guide and used the option to 'use entire disk' for ubuntu.  After installing package updates, wireless drivers, video drivers, and fetching email I got a warning the entire disk was full and the computer would only boot to a grub rescue screen after that.  (Later discovered that the entire root partition was full, however other partitions were nearly empty. As a new user I have no idea why.)

On one forum it was suggested that the disk be partitioned as follows, so I reinstalled using the manual partition option and divided up the disk like this
sda1     mounted to /     size:4gb
sda2     mounted to /HOME     size:~304gb
sda3     swap     size:12gb

Once again in no time at all root was full.  Stumped, I tried to experiment a little, reinstalled again with manual partition.  Made a swap partition of 12gb, and left the remainder of the disk as an ext4 partition with mount point '/'.  The machine is now running and "df -l" returns that the partition is less than 1% full.  However, I feel that this partition scheme is non-standard and could potentially lead to issues down the road.

Should I be worried about my current partition setup?  If so what would a recommended setup for a disk of this size be?  Or is there a way to reinstall with the 'use entire disk' option and change fstab in some way so all files i download go to the proper partitions instead of all to root.

Thank you for your patience, and assistance.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-03-03
If you don't have a separate home partition it doesn't mean that all your work will go to root.
It just means that your /home folder is in the same partition as your root partition, which is perfectly acceptable.

The only reason that a separate /home partition is recommended (recommended mind you, not necessary) is this: the /home partition holds your user settings (gnome preferences, installed apps' preferences, etc.) If ever you need to reinstall, you can use your old /home partition as your new one (ie. without formatting it) and you will magically see all of your settings return even after reinstallation. If on the other hand your /home folder is in the same partition as /, then, upon reinstalling, the installer won't have the means to separate your old home folder and reuse it.

Having said that, 4gbs for / root is too little. My recommendation is a root partition of over 10gbs.
12gbs for swap? Where did you read this? Was there perhaps a dot between 1 and 2? With 4gbs of ram I wouldn't even bother creating a swap partition, or I would create one of 1gb, just in case.

tl;dr; Don't worry, relax and enjoy linux.

---

### Post by maqtanim on 2011-03-03
***sda1     mounted to /     size:4gb*** This is really too small for the root partition. At least 10GB is required. I myself use 20 GB partition for root.
***sda3     swap     size:12gb ***If you have 4GB of RAM then I donot see any need of using swap. But if you want to use one (just in case) then 2GB for swap is more than enough. 
***sda2     mounted to /HOME     size:~304gb*** Just use the rest of the partition as home.

I personally do not like the idea of installing the "'use entire disk'" option. If you have a separate /home directory, then in future you can install a new version of ubuntu without altering anything in your /home directory. And this is the main reason for creating separate /home directory. It is a good habit to use separate /home partition.

---

