---
title: "10.04 - &quot;vesa&quot; in /etc/X11/xorg.conf file"
date: 2011-09-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Swaphead on 2011-09-16
Hi, guys

I have an old IBM Lenovo computer running Lubuntu 10.04 with SIS
graphics. 
The display is very grainy, like an old film.
I thought I would need to buy a graphics card to improve it
(SIS do not provide any drivers). However I have been playing with a Live CD of Slitaz 3.0 and was surprised to see the display was much improved. Slitaz uses the generic(?) VESA driver.

I need to know what text to insert into the
/etc/X11/xorg.conf file to get Lubuntu to use a VESA driver.
The file is currently empty.
In the past I have edited the file on a laptop running Lubuntu to change its screen resolution, but I am out of my depth here: the changes I tried stopped Lubuntu from working - I had to delete them using a Puppy Live CD  :redface:

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2011-09-16
Do "sudo X -configure" it should fill in the xorg.conf, which you can the change the sis to vesa.

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2011-09-16
If I remember correctly Lubuntu 10.04 was really buggy and since it is not a long term release, the simple solution would be to download and install 11.04 which is the current release or upgrade through 10.10.  Lubuntu 10.04 will reach end of life next month.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-09-17
I think 10.04 is the latest LTS release - 11.04 definitely is not a LTS release, unless lubuntu releases run contrary to regular ubuntu releases.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2011-09-17
Lubuntu has not, as yet, been officially recognized as an Ubuntu distro.  That is expected with the release of 11.10 next month.  To my knowledge there has been no LTR of Lubuntu.  However,they are on the same cycle as the other Ubuntu distros.

---

