---
title: "Fail to boot Ubuntu"
date: 2010-04-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by hungryOrb on 2010-04-06
Hi all,
Running 9.10 with all the latest updates installed. I have a problem when booting from cold startup, and that is that it doesn't boot at all.. I just get an error of connecting at grub.. :(
However, if I go to the livecd, and mount the ubuntu drive, and then restart, it will boot properly.
I guess this must be a kind of common problem, please could someone advise?
Thanks for considering,
Robin

---

### Post by goldblattster on 2010-04-06
What sort of grub error do you get?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-07
Is computer booting before hard drive spins up. Or is the problem only on cold starts not restarts?

To see if there is any configuration issue:
Boot Info Script courtesy of forum member meierfra
Page with instructions and download:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
Be sure to highlight and use code tags (# in edit panel) to make it easier to read when you post the results.txt.

---

### Post by candtalan on 2010-04-07
Is the drive in question seen by the bios ok?

---

### Post by hungryOrb on 2010-04-19
Hi guys, thanks for replies.
I'm in China and ubuntuforums isn't working flawlessly all the time, perhaps connection, but I don't know.

Yes, only get the problem after cold startups. If I load ubuntu live cd, mount the ubu drive, and then restart and load ubuntu from hard drive, it works fine. But if I shut down, then launch, it will fail. I will go and record the exact error now. 
The drive must be ok, because it's the same drive, just split for both windows and ubu. 
Oh, thanks for script! I'll use that.
Thanks again for help <3

Robin

---

### Post by hungryOrb on 2010-04-19
Here are the results from RESULTS.txt!

                Boot Info Script 0.55    dated February 15th, 2010                    

============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #5 for /boot/grub.

sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows XP
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  Windows XP
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot.ini /ntldr /NTDETECT.COM

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda5: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 9.10
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

sda6: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 320.1 GB, 320072933376 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinders, total 625142448 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x28ff28ff

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1    *             63   563,977,889   563,977,827   7 HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2         563,977,890   625,137,344    61,159,455   5 Extended
/dev/sda5         563,977,953   622,518,749    58,540,797  83 Linux
/dev/sda6         622,518,813   625,137,344     2,618,532  82 Linux swap / Solaris


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/sda1        3AD401CFD4018E77                       ntfs                                     
/dev/sda5        70aa8ff6-ca98-4cd3-9dd1-8a5feec23dfd   ext4                                     
/dev/sda6        dde5c428-a8f0-41b1-b05c-f30dd9f40382   swap                                     

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/sda5        /                        ext4       (rw,errors=remount-ro)


================================ sda1/boot.ini: ================================

[boot loader]

timeout=30

default=multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS

[operating systems]

multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS="Microsoft Windows XP Professional" /noexecute=optin /fastdetect


=========================== sda5/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,5)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 70aa8ff6-ca98-4cd3-9dd1-8a5feec23dfd
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.


menuentry "Windows XP" {
	insmod ntfs
	set root=(hd0,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 3ad401cfd4018e77
	drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
	chainloader +1
}

menuentry "Linux 2.6.31-20-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	set quiet=1
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,5)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 70aa8ff6-ca98-4cd3-9dd1-8a5feec23dfd
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-20-generic root=UUID=70aa8ff6-ca98-4cd3-9dd1-8a5feec23dfd ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-20-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

=============================== sda5/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# / was on /dev/sda5 during installation
UUID=70aa8ff6-ca98-4cd3-9dd1-8a5feec23dfd /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda6 during installation
UUID=dde5c428-a8f0-41b1-b05c-f30dd9f40382 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

=================== sda5: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


 291.4GB: boot/grub/core.img
 291.3GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
 289.5GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
 289.5GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-20-generic
 289.3GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic
 289.6GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-20-generic
 289.5GB: initrd.img
 289.5GB: initrd.img.old
 289.6GB: vmlinuz
 289.3GB: vmlinuz.old

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-20
I do not see anything in your boot_info script results. The grub points to the correct partition. But if you have to use the liveCD to get it to boot I would first try reinstalling grub to the MBR, sometimes it looks ok but a reinstall works. Boot into your system and run this update to reinstall grub & run the recheck even if you do not get an error.

reinstall from working system - first find Ubuntu drive:
sudo fdisk -l
if it's "/dev/sda"  then just run:
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
If that returns any errors run:
sudo grub-install --recheck /dev/sda
Then:
sudo update-grub

---

### Post by hungryOrb on 2010-04-20
Thanks for reply :D I'll try!

---

### Post by hungryOrb on 2010-04-20
-

---

### Post by hungryOrb on 2010-04-25
Ahh, just to be sure, could I check if I'm reinstalling grub to the correct partition?

I've attached a screenshot of fdisk list:
Natural guess is that it's /dev/sda5 as 'Linux' but :O What else is there to indicate that it's that one?
Thanks,
Robin

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-25
IF you look at the result.txt it shows you. Script is real good when you have multiple installs as it clearly tells which linux is which.

sda5 
Operating System: Ubuntu 9.10
Boot files/dirs: /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

---

