---
title: "8.10 Freezes using Live CD"
date: 2009-01-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by barryell on 2009-01-21
I downloaded and burned the CD satisfactorily, put the CD in the drive and rebooted.

I want to explore using Live CD until I finish a couple of jobs I'm doing and then can dump windows.

The first few times I booted from the CD, everything came up beautifully. I ran hardware tests and started to become familiar with the system. On the third try I was working on network configuration and the system froze.

I shut down and have tried three of four times more. The boot-up gets to the point where I caught some text " Starting system tools backend system..." and then freezes with a blank screen. One time the caps-lock and scroll-lock leds were blinking.

I have an IBM/Lenovo Thinkpad T21, Pentium III 850 Mhz;
Windows 2000 Pro
512 MB sdram;
25 GB free on hard disk
Actiontec 802ctg wireless PC card
SMCWGBR14-N home network router

Any suggestions?

Thanks

barryell

I ran a memory test for a few hours and all looks good

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2009-01-21
hi,

you surely understand that such random freezes without any specific error message are hard to explain.

Of course you can try to download the alternate installer and install in text mode -  much more stable, but does not give you the opportunity to just "try out" the system.

One thing you can do is applying additional boot options:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

But again it is a wild guess from my side... :)

---

### Post by barryell on 2009-01-22
Thanks Michael

Just for the heck of it, I burned a new CD and it booted right up.

I ran through the hardware test to see how it reacted and everything tested OK.

Then when I tried to configure the network it froze and refuses to boot up again.

I tried once without the "splash" and "quiet" and saw the verbose loading sequence. Is there a way to get that written to disk so that it can be used for troubleshooting?

I'll keep working on it.

Thanks again

Barry

---

### Post by barryell on 2009-01-23
Well, I've tried several times again with no improved results.

Every time I boot up using Live CD, it allows me to explore for about 10 minutes and then freezes.

If I try to reboot immediately after a forced shutdown (using the power switch) it won't start, but if I wait about 15 minutes I can start up -- but it again freezes after approx 10 minutes.

It might be a heat issue. The laptop gets pretty warm around the CPU fan area although it doesn't feel much different than when I'm using Windows 2K.

Although I'm intrigued by UBUNTU and really like the look and feel, I might try some other flavor of LINUX to see what happens.

Barry

---

### Post by Therion on 2009-01-23
I suggest you try Ubuntu 8.04 (Hardy Heron) instead.

---

### Post by barryell on 2009-01-24
Thanks, Therion --  I'll give it a go.

Barry

---

### Post by barryell on 2009-01-25
Well, that did the trick! I'm working right now from Hardy Heron Live CD and have been exploring for about an hour.

When I get a little more confident, I'll probably try a dual install with my Win 2K system until my current projects are done -- then I'll consider dumping Windows.

Thanks for your help.

Barry

---

