---
title: "9.10 Notification Area Icons and username in Top Panel"
date: 2009-11-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rjromanc on 2009-11-12
[FONT=Arial]Two Questions from a newcomer to the forum[/FONT]
[FONT=Arial][/FONT] 
[FONT=Arial]1.  [/FONT][FONT=Arial]I recently upgraded from Ubuntu 9.04 to Ubuntu 9.10, and I liked that in  9.04 my full name was displayed on the right side of the Top Panel. Ubuntu 9.10 displays my login username instead.  Is there a way I can change this to my full name as it was in 9.04 ? This looked better.[/FONT]
[FONT=Arial][/FONT] 
[FONT=Arial][FONT=Arial]2.  [/FONT][FONT=Arial]At one point, I accidentally removed the Notification Area from my top panel, then after adding it back, I don’t like the network connectivity icon that gets displayed there.  When I try to choose different icons by customizing a theme under System > Preferences > Appearance > Themes, its OK until I shutdown the computer, but when I boot up again, then icon is either totally not there, or it reverts back to the one I don’t like.[/FONT]
[FONT=Arial][/FONT] 
[FONT=Arial]Has anyone else had these issues or know how to solve them ?[/FONT]
[FONT=Arial][/FONT] 
[/FONT]

---

### Post by rjromanc on 2009-11-16
OK, so after doing a search on Notification area, I see lots of people have this type of problem with the notification icons, but the problem seems to have fixed itself after the last update.

And about the 2nd issue, turns out a search on the username thing tells me that this is by design and connot be changed at this time, so as suggested in another thread, I removed this from the panel, and added the switch user and shutdown, now it looks better.

But still, some one should at least reply with "Welcome to the forum and Linux !"

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-11-16
Welcome to the forums and Ubuntu. Have fun.

---

### Post by Felliph3 on 2009-11-23
yeah I want my name to show up there, not the username, have no idea either

---

### Post by mrawlings on 2009-11-23
hmm ive had the update install but i still seem to notice that my notification icons have been somewhat ghostly, dissappearing and reappearing as they please. after reading around it seems the best solution people have is to uninstall the notification area and then reinstall it everytime something goes missing.  Is this really the best solution? is there an alternative package to use for the battery, internet connection, and sound?

---

### Post by vikingr on 2010-01-23
Right-click on the panel, open panel properties & check the box to "Show hide buttons" will make them show; has anyone come up with a fix to make the icons use the system theme?

---

### Post by d3v1150m471c on 2010-01-23
The icons do use the system theme. The theme(s) you are trying probably don't have a difference for icons. Customize the theme and change the default icons and/or download more from the link when your appearance preferences menu.

---

