---
title: "12.04 update/boot problems"
date: 2012-05-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by krisgal tay on 2012-05-13
I have just recently upgraded from 11.10 to 12.04 and when I run the updates for 12.04 and restart the computer, it goes to the purple loading page and freezes there. I have tried re-installing it several times and several different ways, but it continues to do it. If I do not install the updates it runs just fine and turns on. I think there is a problem with one of the updates. What can I do? Thanks! I tried the reinstallation of the update manager and it didn't help, still hangs on the boot. I mounted the system as read/write in recovery mode through the shell prompt, and tried to update and upgrade, which gave me a lot of errors, and still didn't fix the problem, the only thing it changed is now I see a message when it hangs in the shell line saying swapon failed then mountall failed then problem activating swap. help please? thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Utkarsh Ray on 2012-05-13
Try doing clean-install.
Remember to backup data with encryption keys (if any).

1. Pop the CD in optical-drive bay.
2. Wipe the drive clean.
3. Make a partition for swap(recommended is double the size of your RAM, but linux is so efficient that 512MiB is more than enough for my 4GiB RAM)
4. Make another ext4 for /home (just to be on the safe side)
5. Make one ext4 for the OS and use it as /
6. Select it as the partition to install bootloader in.

Some prefer to make a dedicated /boot, however my system runs fine with only a swap and /

If you attempt to proceed through clean-install without making a swap you will get the information that there might be errors in the installation. Probably that is the reason, make a swap of size equal to your RAM.

If you don't want to wipe the HDD/SSD clean, relocate data to a convenient place (I prefer end of the drive) and do 1. and 3. to 5.

There are better and verbose install guides on the forum in the section, tutorials.

---

### Post by pissedoffdude on 2012-05-13
> **krisgal tay said:**
> I have just recently upgraded from 11.10 to 12.04 and when I run the updates for 12.04 and restart the computer, it goes to the purple loading page and freezes there. I have tried re-installing it several times and several different ways, but it continues to do it. If I do not install the updates it runs just fine and turns on. I think there is a problem with one of the updates. What can I do? Thanks! I tried the reinstallation of the update manager and it didn't help, still hangs on the boot. I mounted the system as read/write in recovery mode through the shell prompt, and tried to update and upgrade, which gave me a lot of errors, and still didn't fix the problem, the only thing it changed is now I see a message when it hangs in the shell line saying swapon failed then mountall failed then problem activating swap. help please? thanks in advance.

Hit f2 as it starts booting so that it goes into verbose mode.  Let us know where it hangs.  If grub lets you choose another kernel, try booting it and see if it works.  Also, please post your system specs

---

### Post by krisgal tay on 2012-05-13
I have reinstalled the entire system and used seperate partitions each time, even tried a seperate /var and /home and all that. Still the same hang up after updating, works great until I update though so it's odd. I have tried using a flashdrive and also using all the appropriate ways like md5 sums and ect. No dice.

---

### Post by krisgal tay on 2012-05-13
THe specs are, it is a dell inspiron 14r with a pentium dual core and 4 gigs of RAM. Verbose mode wasn't working, it wasn't displaying anything it hangs right when it boots after POST. This only happens after updating the system and works fine prior to that. I tried recovery mode, scanned the filesystem for errors, tried updating manually from the root shell (then I get networking errors) and tried booting in the failsafe x fallback or whatever it is called. Then I can see where it hangs but it's different each time, once it is CUPS server, then bluetooth daemon, ect. Again, thanks for helping out an amateur guys :)

---

### Post by jtarin on 2012-05-13
Try making a list of updates and saving. Then before updating de-select all but one.Update then reboot. Do this until you can find the offender.

---

### Post by krisgal tay on 2012-05-13
There's 115 updates and each time the computer crashes I lose use of it and have to re install (along with all my data) the system. Is there any other way to do it other than doing this process 115 times?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-14
If it booted once, I would not think you have to reinstall.

Do log files show anything, where it stops may not be the issue, but what it cannot load or tries to load and crashes may be the issue.

Did it update any video drivers as part of the update? What video card?

---

### Post by txwooley on 2012-05-17
I also am having the same problem.  After updating (>150MB worth of updates) my computer hangs while booting.

The screen output is:
swapon failed: device or resource busy
mountall terminated with status code 255
mountall: problem activating swap
initct1: event failed
checking battery state  [OK]

Then it hangs.  It's nice to know I'm not the only one, but with limited bandwidth I can't be re-installing the whole OS and then all my extras on a regular basis.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2012-05-17
> **txwooley said:**
> I also am having the same problem.  After updating (>150MB worth of updates) my computer hangs while booting.

The screen output is:
swapon failed: device or resource busy
mountall terminated with status code 255
mountall: problem activating swap
initct1: event failed
checking battery state  [OK]

Then it hangs.  It's nice to know I'm not the only one, but with limited bandwidth I can't be re-installing the whole OS and then all my extras on a regular basis.txwooley....it would be better to start your own thread rather than hijack this one. You will get individual attention if you do.

---

### Post by krisgal tay on 2012-05-18
> **oldfred said:**
> If it booted once, I would not think you have to reinstall.

Do log files show anything, where it stops may not be the issue, but what it cannot load or tries to load and crashes may be the issue.

Did it update any video drivers as part of the update? What video card?

It boots fine before installing updates, which is the way I am using it now, normal usage, sans updates. It worries me because I know I will run into problems with out-dated dependencies and the like by never hitting updates. I am using integrated graphics through Intel chipset I think it has an Nvidia piggy-back or something because windows used to do something with Nvidia, I even tried installing separate Nvidia drivers and it changed nothing. I am really comfortable with ubuntu as an operating system except for this error. After looking twice, no updates mention anything with graphics drivers or the like. I am not sure how to access the log files without replicating the error and making my computer useless again. Forgive the ignorance, I am still relatively new to linux.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2012-05-18
Can you give us the output of the terminal command ```
sudo blkid
```

---

### Post by miroi on 2012-05-24
Hi, I have the same problem (nvidia, Ubuntu 12.04, x86_64 AMD QuadrCode)

Booting in the text mode is stopping at the text message "Checking the battery state"... Sometimes after restarting it boots, sometimes I have to repeat it.

Note: I also have made fix of the nvidia blank screen in /etc/default/grub.

---

### Post by krisgal tay on 2012-05-26
I have started running ubuntu 11.10 instead with no issues upon updating. I will be sure to get the blkid command output to you pronto, sorry for not being on recently guys. Thanks for the help, and any idea why 12.04 just wont work for me? After googling it more and more, it appears I am not the only one having the issue?

---

