---
title: "10.10 - integrated ATI Radeon HD4200 graphics controller"
date: 2010-11-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-11-12
My system bit it, and now I had to buy a new MB, processor and of course memory as well (my old system is so old none of the parts are compatible with the new stuff now).  I'm on Social Security Disability, so I got the best deal I could at our local Microcenter store:

Athlon II X4 640 (it was cheap - and it will beat the heck out of my old Athlon 64 3200+) - $95.99

4 gig of ocz ddr3 memory -$69.99 plus a $10 mail in rebate

MSI 785G-E53 motherboard - combo deal with processor - $79.99 board for $29.99 and I get a $20 mail in rebate

This was the cheapest I could do on anything that seemed worthwhile, it is pretty hard on my SSDI budget to get it, but I had to.

So, the mb comes with ATI Radeon HD4200 graphics on board.  My old system used an ATI Radeon 9250 Pro with no problems in 10.04 using the default driver that ubuntu/X assigns to it at boot (10.10 didn't get GUI, had no time to work on it before system died).

Does anyone know if the HD4200 will work out of the box, or do I have to enter some parameter(s) or get a driver for it?  BTW - I can't hard wire to my router, but I can load the wireless drivers in a command line.  So, if I will need to do the old apt-get update followed by looking in System/Administration/Hardware Drivers, I'll need a little help actually getting the network up (it's a hidden ESSID, using WPA2-PSK/AES (I think - it's been a while since I set it up).  It would all need to be things I can enter at the command line to get the wireless working so I could try the update.

Thanks in advance!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-11-13
I not ashamed of being stupid!  ;)

So.....

A shameless bump.......

---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-11-13
> **anewguy said:**
> My system bit it, and now I had to buy a new MB, processor and of course memory as well (my old system is so old none of the parts are compatible with the new stuff now).  I'm on Social Security Disability, so I got the best deal I could at our local Microcenter store:

Athlon II X4 640 (it was cheap - and it will beat the heck out of my old Athlon 64 3200+) - $95.99

4 gig of ocz ddr3 memory -$69.99 plus a $10 mail in rebate

MSI 785G-E53 motherboard - combo deal with processor - $79.99 board for $29.99 and I get a $20 mail in rebate

This was the cheapest I could do on anything that seemed worthwhile, it is pretty hard on my SSDI budget to get it, but I had to.

So, the mb comes with ATI Radeon HD4200 graphics on board.  My old system used an ATI Radeon 9250 Pro with no problems in 10.04 using the default driver that ubuntu/X assigns to it at boot (10.10 didn't get GUI, had no time to work on it before system died).

Does anyone know if the HD4200 will work out of the box, or do I have to enter some parameter(s) or get a driver for it?  BTW - I can't hard wire to my router, but I can load the wireless drivers in a command line.  So, if I will need to do the old apt-get update followed by looking in System/Administration/Hardware Drivers, I'll need a little help actually getting the network up (it's a hidden ESSID, using WPA2-PSK/AES (I think - it's been a while since I set it up).  It would all need to be things I can enter at the command line to get the wireless working so I could try the update.

Thanks in advance!
Dave ;)
hey, nice to see you around.

THe default radeon drivers should work, I have a 47xx series card in my laptop and it works fine.

TBH, it actually works better than the nouveau drivers, many users have to use nomodeset to get a GUI.....

---

### Post by onaridge on 2010-11-13
That's what I have and it worked with no intervention from me BUT I can't get the HDMI to work when trying to watch a movie on my tv (and it works just fine when I boot into Windows.

---

### Post by desnaike on 2010-11-13
I have on my desktop and laptop 10.04 u/k/xubuntu all worked. Compiz effects worked in ubuntu  had some compiz problems with kubuntu but kwin effects were flawless.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-11-14
Great!  Thanks so much everyone!  Now I can get off this old laptop and get busy putting a working desktop back together!

Thanks again!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by CowzRule on 2010-11-14
> **onaridge said:**
> That's what I have and it worked with no intervention from me BUT I can't get the HDMI to work when trying to watch a movie on my tv (and it works just fine when I boot into Windows.

I believe you'll need to install the restricted drives to do that if you have both your monitor and tv plugged in at the same time.

---

### Post by iluminameluna on 2011-07-02
> **anewguy said:**
> Great!  Thanks so much everyone!  Now I can get off this old laptop and get busy putting a working desktop back together!

Thanks again!

Dave ;)

I have a working system but it's hiccuping graphically. The new system I'm thinking of getting has the same onboard vid proc you got on your mb. Can you post an update, pls?

The old & the new are both Dells but I don't think it's relevant ... Although I am going for only 3G of ram ..

I too am on SSDis but living overseas so it's not possible to just hop to the nearest comp store. Not to mention I've become house-bound too ...

If I may impose, could I ask you, or anyone else who sees this post, to look over the sys I'm planning on getting?

[http://configure.us.dell.com/dellstore/config.aspx?oc=ddcwba11&c=us&l=en&s=dhs&cs=19&model_id=inspiron-570](http://configure.us.dell.com/dellstore/config.aspx?oc=ddcwba11&c=us&l=en&s=dhs&cs=19&model_id=inspiron-570)

ANY help given is GREATLY appreciated!

---

