---
title: "10.10 download"
date: 2011-02-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Possom on 2011-02-22
When seeking to download 10.10 a DVD is asked for to download to. Why is this needed and can't I download directly to the hard drive?
I don't want a dual boot system but just a single OS on this laptop. How would this be accomplished starting with a download? When I tried a download I ended up with an ISO file I didn't know what to do with so I unzipped it to get at the contents, then launched wubi.exe. Is there a way to remove Windows during install?

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-02-22
Hi Possum!

The [www.ubuntu.com](www.ubuntu.com) has two tutorials that are jsut what you need.

To learn how to convert an ISO file into a CD:

[Click This Link and then press [show me how] on #2]("http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/download")

To see how to install Ubuntu on your PC with lots of nice pictures:

[Click This Link and then press [show me how] on #4]("http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/download")

Happy Ubuntu(ing)!

:KS

---

### Post by LewRockwellFAN on 2011-02-22
> **Possom said:**
> When seeking to download 10.10 a DVD is asked for to download to. Why is this needed and can't I download directly to the hard drive?

That seems exceedingly strange, so strange in fact that I suspect that you misstated the problem. DOWNLOADING an iso file is normally done to a HD or something that works similarly, like a RAM drive or one of those new nonvolatile solid state thingamabobs. It is POSSIBLE that there is an internet browser or download manager that would let you download directly to a DVD, although I've never heard of one. It certainly wouldn't be REQUIRED to download and you can, of course allways download to a hard drive, which is what most people would do. I think you are confusing 2 different things - downloading and installing.
 
> **Possom said:**
> I don't want a dual boot system but just a single OS on this laptop. How would this be accomplished starting with a download? When I tried a download I ended up with an ISO file I didn't know what to do with so I unzipped it to get at the contents, then launched wubi.exe. Is there a way to remove Windows during install?

The iso is a compressed image of CD or DVD. You "burn" it to a CD which means you open it with some CD/DVD burning software, like Nero or some other Windows ap for burning CD/DVDs if you are using Windows. By the way, are you sure you need a DVD specifically? I'm under the impression all the versions are still small enough to fit on a CD, i.e., smaller than about 600 mb, but I might be wrong. If you are using Ubuntu now I'd use Kburner with Brasero being my second choice. Most likely you can just double click on the iso file and some sort of burning ap will come up, no matter what OS you are running. After you burn a CD or DVD, you reboot. If you are lucky the bios may already be set to boot from bootable CD/DVDs. If not, reboot again and read what goes by on the screen looking for some message like "To enter setup hold down the F2 key". The wording and which key will vary with the type of motherboard, or strictly, I suppose, with the type of bios. Anyway, whatever it says, do that. Then you will get a program that lets you change some basic things about how the computer works, including, what devices it can boot from and in what order it tries them. Set the CD/DVD drive to be first. DON'T MESS WITH ANYTHING ELSE THERE UNLESS YOU ARE SURE YOU KNOW WHAT YOU ARE DOING. Then reboot again. If you did it right, you can follow the prompts and install Ubuntu. Unless, perchance it is a really old computer that won't boot from an optical drive. If it is the procedure gets more complicated but I'm not going into that because the chances are it isn't relevant. 

WARNING: Think twice before you do this. If there is any data on the partition you are installing Ubuntu to, unless you know what you are doing, you may wipe it out and you should NEVER install an OS on a system that has unbacked up data. Also think twice before wiping out a legitimate copy of Windows. If you don't have an installation disk, once it is gone, it's gone. You can back it up with a tool like Clonezilla or reinstall if you have the disk, but otherwise, if you change your mind, you'll have to buy it. I'm not saying that because I don't like Ubuntu better than Windows. I do. Windows sucks on the whole. But it doesn't sound like you've had much experience with computers and while I don't mean to be patronizing I'm not sure what the basis of your conviction you want to ditch it is. If you don't have any more reason than "all the cool people use linux and revile Windows" I wouldn't get rid of it without leaving myself at least some path of retreat if not a dual booting system in case you change your mind. Windows does do some things well and most people find it a little easier to use.

If you search, either here in the forum or with google you will find lots of step by step installation instructions and suggestions about partitioning.


PS added immediately afterwards:
@ Hedgehog - While I was slowly typing my prolix answer you got in an out ahead of me. You need to give me lessons in conciseness. :)

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-02-22
> **Possom said:**
> When seeking to download 10.10 a DVD is asked for to download to. Why is this needed and can't I download directly to the hard drive?

You physically can't change a tire on your car while driving it down the road - that's probably the best analogy. You need to download Ubuntu, then burn it to CD, then boot up the computer from the CD. There's no way to download Ubuntu and have it simulatenously replace the operating system that is currently downloading it.

---

