---
title: "9.04 hiccups."
date: 2009-05-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pankirk on 2009-05-21
So just a couple problems I'm having are the fact that switching between windows theres hiccups as well as switching between tabs in firefox. Also many web pages load slow (not because of the internet, but because of the buggyness) everything acts normal and is quick and nice but theres just something about the entire operating system which makes me feel like everythings just a tiny bit buggy (reasons stated above)

so anyway, heres my system specs:
CPU: amd athlon 6000+
HD: western digital raptor
ram: 4gb 800mhz
GPU: 8800gt nvidia

I do have my nvidia 8800gt updated to the newest drivers as well.

when I run windows, everything runs flawlessly and I was hoping it would be the same for linux. Thanks for the help in advance!

---

### Post by Zzl1xndd on 2009-05-21
I'm running the same card and everything runs rather smoothly. Have you installed the Nvidia driver yet?

If not check System > Preferences > Hardware drivers.

---

### Post by pankirk on 2009-05-21
Yes in the system>prefs>hardware drivers, I do have my drivers updated to 180, the one that has [reccomended] by it.

---

### Post by Steelmourne on 2009-05-21
It could be desktop effects. Disable them (none) and see what happens. It can't your specs as my 1.6ghz centrino laptop with 1gb ram and geforce go 7400 has no problem running multiple apps across different workspaces with compiz. RAM usage never goes past 45%. Also try defragmenting the hard drive.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-05-21
> **Steelmourne said:**
> Also try defragmenting the hard drive.

Fragmentation is a Windows thing. There is no need to defrag an ext3 partition, although it seems that ext4 supports defragmentation.

---

### Post by pankirk on 2009-05-23
Okay well so far I have turned off the advanced theme settings, its still pretty buggy and everything takes a second before the actual task is done.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-05-23
> **pankirk said:**
> Okay well so far I have turned off the advanced theme settings, its still pretty buggy and everything takes a second before the actual task is done.

Turning off the effects never worked for me. I don't see much difference.

This might help you: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1152095](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1152095)

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-05-23
Are you booting Ubuntu clean from a hard drive or running it in a virtual environment or a wubi install?

---

