---
title: "[9.04]my sound system stop responding without any reason"
date: 2009-06-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by legolas_w on 2009-06-13
Hi
I was watching a film using smplayer and in middle of the movie the sound stopped.
I tried to stop an resume the film with no chance, I tried to play some mp3 files with no luck. I restart the machine and tried some mp3 and ... with no luck :O

I changed the headphone and speakers again with no luck, is there any bug related to this? is there any kind of diagnosis which I can perform?

Songbird shows that it is playing the song but I have no voice in my speakers and headphones...

Thanks

---

### Post by jenkinbr on 2009-06-18
Could you open a terinal and post the output of ```
aplay -l
```

I fear you may be suffering from HDA-intel issues within alsa, because this happened to me.  I've yet to find a fix.

---

### Post by legolas_w on 2009-06-18
Hi

Here is the result of the given command:

```

aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: ALC883 Analog [ALC883 Analog]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 1: ALC883 Digital [ALC883 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0


```

Please let me know if you found any solution for this.

---

### Post by jenkinbr on 2009-06-18
Unfortunatly, [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7466476&postcount=8") is all i have for you.  It involves spending money, though.  You can find some for around 8 USD online though.

I will keep an eye out for the HDA Intel issue, though.

---

### Post by mgmiller on 2009-06-18
I recently had a similar issue where my sound stopped while playing a game and nothing looked wrong in any of my settings.  After rebooting, there was still no sound, but when I clicked on the speaker icon in the top panel, I found that the volume slider had moved all the way down.  When I moved it back up, I had sound again.  Until I rebooted, the sound slider was in the right place.

---

### Post by jenkinbr on 2009-06-29
I found this in another thread.  It solved my issue, and may well work for many people, including you.

> **Buntuyang said:**
> Try this , it worked for me.
---------------------------------

Ubuntu sound no sound speakers

In 8.04, double click on the volume control, click on Edit/Preferences, then check External amplifier to be visible. The switches tab then appears. Uncheck External amplifier in that tab. Worked for me anyway."
This really worked for me, I just installed ubuntu today and it took me 6 hours to get sound work.

It worked for me, and I am in 9.04, not 8.04

---

### Post by GUESS WHO525 on 2009-06-29
The same thing happened to me but luckily i have at the back of the computer to conections to the speakers i just changed them and walla! i had sound! you should try that to OK!:p

---

