---
title: "9.10 On Dell Inspiron 1100 Laptop"
date: 2009-12-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ovid9 on 2009-12-11
Hey all.  Well, I finally got Karmic on my wife's laptop after XP had sucked up over half her HD space with its bloat.
 
It was a bit of a rough process and I'm still having issues (wireless issues mostly, but I'll try more of the workthroughs posted here later).  I'm not in front of the machine right now as it was quite late when I finished last night, but here's the issue.
 
Basically, the interface "locks up."   What I mean is, the computer will be sitting there, I'll go to do something, the mouse will move, but I can't click on anything, nor will the keyboard do anything.
 
I can't be certain, but I believe this mostly happened after the machine had sat idle for a few minutes.  (I was working on my computer as well.)  
 
What might be causing this?  It happened 2x when I was booted from the liveCD trying to install Karmic and a 3rd time when as I was installing drivers for Java, flash, etc.  Actually,  I had finished installing the drivers and the machine was sitting there waiting for me to do something.

---

### Post by tom66 on 2009-12-11
During a 'lockup' do you observe any of the following?:
[LIST]
[*]You can toggle Caps Lock and/or Num Lock light
[*]You can switch virtual terminals (Ctrl-Alt-F1, Ctrl-Alt-F7)
[*]The Caps Lock light flashing on and off. This indicates a kernel panic.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by ukripper on 2009-12-11
post output of this command:
```
lspci
```
If your chipset is 945 there has been bug reported for this : [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/451518](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/451518)

you may want to disable compiz.

---

### Post by ovid9 on 2009-12-11
Thanks.
 
1) Not sure
2) NO. I tried ctrl-alt-Fkeys combos. Nothing
3) I don't believe so, but it was late last night. 
 
Since I have brought the issue up, it probably won't do it again. I'll keep an eye on it, and if it does it again, I'll test for #1 and #3. 
 
Thanks again.
 
And, now i see someone else posted, I will do that and post it up.

---

### Post by Terl on 2009-12-11
What are the specs on that laptop?  IIRC, that laptop is somewhat older and sometimes did not have a lot of RAM.  It also has a shared Intel graphics card further reducing RAM.  Low specs could cause issues too....

---

### Post by ovid9 on 2009-12-11
It is older, probably 6 years or so?  However, specs are plenty robust to run Xubuntu from all I've read.  IIRC it is a Intel 1.9 ghz celeron with 1gig of RAM and 20 gig of hard drive space. I'll double check when i have my hands on it again.

---

### Post by ukripper on 2009-12-11
can you post output of lspci?

---

### Post by ovid9 on 2009-12-11
I go to lunch in an hour or so, hope to get it then.  Until then, thanks for the input so far!

---

### Post by ovid9 on 2009-12-11
Here's the output.
> 
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE/PE DRAM Controller/Host-Hub Interface (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-M) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev 82)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL (ICH4/ICH4-L) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801DB (ICH4) IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.5 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.6 Modem: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 02)
02:01.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4401 100Base-T (rev 01)
02:04.0 CardBus bridge: Texas Instruments PCI1510 PC card Cardbus Controller
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. Atheros AR5001X+ Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01)
Also, it locked up when i first booted up just now.  So:

1) No, i couldn't toggle caps or num lock light.
3)No, caps light was not flashing.

Looks like i have an 845 chipset?  I think?  hmmm.

Also, this is a 2ghz processor with 1gig or Ram. should be plenty for Xubuntu.

---

### Post by NinjaNumberNine on 2009-12-11
> **ovid9 said:**
> 
Also, this is a 2ghz processor with 1gig or Ram. should be plenty for Xubuntu.
Whoah, that's more than I've got in one of my computers, and mine even lets you draw fire and rotate the desktop cube! (Yeah it's got a crappy Intel card too) ;)
So I don't think it's a problem with RAM, if anything.

Good luck,


NinjaNumberNine


Oh and when the Caps/Num Lock lights don't work that would imply a problem with the keyboard maybe? (I don't use laptops much, I wouldn't know) 
But that still leaves the mouse unaccounted for... :confused:

Oh well... :)

---

### Post by ovid9 on 2009-12-11
Ninja,
Thanks.  Its not the keyboard as I can't do anything with the mouse pointer but move it.  I can't click on the taskbar, right click, anything.

Something is getting, messed up for lack of a more technical term.  

However, I have gotten wireless working thanks to the helpful folks around here, so I'm sure they'll help me pinpoint this as well.

---

### Post by ovid9 on 2009-12-11
Sorry to double post, but apparently this is a problem happening to a lucky few with 9.10.

Here is a link to another forum talking about it.  An aside, wow am I glad I found ubuntuforums.org for help.  
[http://www.technologyquestions.com/technology/linux/467767-ubuntu-9-10-keeps-freezing.html](http://www.technologyquestions.com/technology/linux/467767-ubuntu-9-10-keeps-freezing.html)

They were utterly useless there, but here are others discussing the exact symptoms I'm showing.  I'm starting to wonder if I shouldn't just install the Xubuntu 8.04 i have sitting around...

---

### Post by shadetree1 on 2009-12-23
Hello,  I just installed a early version of Karmic on my Inspiron 1100 P4 2.4Ghz 1GB 16mb video, with a few problems.  

But after updating the system, all is well so far and fast.  

Even have some effects, thou I can't turn on any yet.

I'll watch this thread.  :)

---

### Post by shadetree1 on 2010-01-04
Well I spoke too soon, as 1-2-10 my old Dell Inspiron 1100 is starting the Intel freeze after a few minutes :(.  

Have mouse movement with the pad but not with bluetooth and nothing else works.   Hard restart and all is well for a few.

It was solid, booted every time and was faster than XP ever was.  

9.10 was the only distribution besides 8.04 that ran from the box.

---

### Post by ovid9 on 2010-01-05
My solution was just to install 8.04. I haven't had any issues yet. I've seen some of the "bug report" links about, but I don't know anywhere near enough to understand them. Apparently it just happens to a lucky few with Intel chipsets or something.
 
8.04 has no issues for me except that my wife can't play Farmville on Facebook. BUT, she couldn't do that with XP either on account of the silly amount of memory and graphics power that game uses. Just ridiculous. 
 
Anyway, good luck, and I'd give a version older than 9.10 a chance. Seems to just be wonky with Karmic.

---

