---
title: "display - resolution problem issue"
date: 2008-05-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-19
I tried plugging my ubuntu computer into a new TV (which has a PC input, so it can be used like a regular VGA monitor).

I was delighted to find that it worked - but then dismayed to find that the resolution was changed and screwed up now on my regular ubuntu system.

now everything is freaking enormous!  I can barely get the whole screen of any program on there because everything is so big.

I tried going into the preferences, and it only offers three options, and even the one which I think is the smallest (800 x 600) is too big - and I noticed that changing it doesn't seem to help at all!

help!  what to do?  how can I change the resolution back to the default setting?

thanks!

W

---

### Post by |{urse on 2008-05-19
If you could paste up the contents of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf I might be able to help.

---

### Post by |{urse on 2008-05-19
at any rate hook up your monitor you plan to keep using and run

dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

will probably fix it.

---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-19
thank you -

I imagine I can do that via a terminal command involving SUDO - can you tell me how to do that?

/etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by |{urse on 2008-05-19
actually try

dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

first. but in the terminal

gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

and copy and paste

If you were to open it with sudo you would be able to make changes to the conf file.

---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-19
I don't think this is what you want --- I ran the command in terminal and it opened up this text file :  (is this any use?)

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Matrox Graphics, Inc. MGA G400/G450"
	Driver		"mga"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"OldDmaInit"		"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Matrox Graphics, Inc. MGA G400/G450"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by |{urse on 2008-05-19
yep thats it.

did you run 

dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

?

---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-19
or is this what you wanted?

will@will-dell:~$ dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
/usr/sbin/dpkg-reconfigure must be run as root
will@will-dell:~$

---

### Post by |{urse on 2008-05-19
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-19
okay - now it's asking me if I should use "kernel framebuffer" yes or no?

not sure in general how to use the "xorg" thing in terminal - what happens next?  what do I do with it?

thanks again,

W

---

### Post by |{urse on 2008-05-19
just press enter for the default.

---

### Post by Victormd on 2008-05-19
I think you might have anticipated yourself running sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg because your system was working to begin with... 

There are a few checks before going with dpkg-reconfigure, i.e., did pluging your comp. to the TV generate a backup of your xorg.conf? If so, all you would have to do is replace the existing with the backup. Also, you could have tried to modify the line "***Modes "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"***" leaving only the modes you want, i.e., ***Modes "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768"***

---

### Post by |{urse on 2008-05-19
thanks Victormd but i think it's all good now. Move along.. Nothing to see here.

---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-19
hey - i'm stuck in "configuring Xorg" - it's on a keyboard thing. it's just sitting there - not letting me do anything - am thinking I should quit maybe and start all over again?

w

PS: how would I check if a backup was made, and how would I use it to replace the current one? (if indeed one was generated when I plugged in the TV) should I look into that?

---

### Post by |{urse on 2008-05-19
a keyboard thing? try hitting tab until the OK box is highlighted then press enter

---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-19
am not sure if anything happened - I got this in terminal (sorry for being so dense!)

will@will-dell:~$ dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
/usr/sbin/dpkg-reconfigure must be run as root
will@will-dell:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
[sudo] password for will: 
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20080519235109
will@will-dell:~$

---

### Post by Victormd on 2008-05-19
reboot and you'll find out... :)

> **willfriedwald said:**
> am not sure if anything happened - I got this in terminal (sorry for being so dense!)

will@will-dell:~$ dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
/usr/sbin/dpkg-reconfigure must be run as root
will@will-dell:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
[sudo] password for will: 
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20080519235109
will@will-dell:~$

that's just telling you that a backup (xorg.conf.20080519235109) was created after you ran sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

to check for backups of xorg.conf, just go to /etc/X11 and most likely you'll see a list of xorg.conf.BACKUP where BACKUP can be anything from date to number to a description...

to replace the existing backup
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.BACKUP xorg.conf
```
(replace BACKUP to match what you have)

PS... sorry |{urse...

---

### Post by |{urse on 2008-05-19
just keep pressing enter for defaults, use the tab key to highlight selections and the enter key to select them. If it asks you something you aren't sure of just pick the default selection (the one thats already highlighted). And its no prob ill hang out until youre finished so feel free to ask lots of questions

or try
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak /etc/X11/xorg.conf

which im pretty sure would be the pre-"tv as monitor" backup.

 ^^

---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-20
sorry - am no good with this terminal :

will@will-dell:~$ /etc/X11
bash: /etc/X11: is a directory
will@will-dell:~$ cd /etc/X11
will@will-dell:/etc/X11$ ls
app-defaults             xinit                     Xsession
cursors                  xkb                       Xsession.d
default-display-manager  xorg.conf                 Xsession.options
fonts                    xorg.conf.20080519235109  Xwrapper.config
rgb.txt                  Xresources
X                        xserver
will@will-dell:/etc/X11$ 

is this as it should be - thanks - sorry to be so dense!

w

---

### Post by Victormd on 2008-05-20
> **willfriedwald said:**
> 
xorg.conf                 xorg.conf.20080519235109


Ok, so you don't have the backup we expected... per your previous post, the file xorg.conf.20080519235109 was created after you ran sudo dpkg... so that would be your original xorg.conf (prior to sudo dpkg... but after TV-monitor). That's important to know because if you restart and can't get into X, you can do
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20080519235109 xorg.conf
``` and you'll be Ok...

---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-20
update -

I totally blew it!

something totally messed up the system - I did the SUDO in terminal and now it won't restart at all - the system has been fried!

oh well - it's a pain in the neck - but there wasn't anything essential on that computer.  I guess I have to burn a new Live CD (for U 8.04 - what's the link for that again) and re-install the OS.

it's a pain but not the end of the world.

my remaining question:

1 - why did this happen - why does attaching a TV monitor screw up the resolution on the computer when you go back to a regular monitor?

2 - is there any way to prevent this from happening in the future?

3 - is there any precaution I can take that it case it does happen, I can get back to normal?

another idea - rather elaborate - buy a cheap used PC and make that into a linux-TV machine, I could just use it for watching movies & stuff, in other words, NEVER connect it to a standard monitor.

but I still don't know why ubuntu doesn't offer me more resolution options and why I couldn't find an adequate resolution option just using the basic gui interface, without having to resort to terminal...

still love ubuntu, of course....

Willfriedwald

---

### Post by unutbu on 2008-05-20
There was a typo in one of the previous messages. 
Reboot your computer, press escape (ESC) to get to the GRUB menu. Boot into "Recovery mode".
At the terminal prompt, type:
```

cd /etc/X11
cp xorg.conf.20080519235109 xorg.conf
dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

```

(You should be root in recovery mode, so no sudo necessary.)

Try dpkg-reconfigure one more time. Select the resolution that's appropriate for your monitor, and the driver which is appropriate for your video card.

When you are done with dpkg-reconfigure, at the root prompt type
```
startx
```

This should get you back to the GUI. If it doesn't, try rebooting once more.


To answer your questions:
#1: I don't know
#2: If we can restore your computer, then the solution will give us a clue about what to do to "prevent" this from happening in the future. 
#3: At the moment, I don't know. Once we fix the display problem (hopefully), we'll at the very least have a procedure which you could use to restore your machine after hooking up to a TV in the future.

---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-20
all right - will give it a try when I get home tonight.

last night - last time I tried it, it just wouldn't boot at all - frankly I was nervous about it even being able to start from the liveCD. 

will try and let you know!

willfriedwald

---

### Post by unutbu on 2008-05-20
When you turn on the computer, pray that you see the BIOS screen. Usually you can enter BIOS by pressing F2 or F12 or something. It depends on your BIOS. If you can do that, you should be able to select the device from which to boot. If you can select "Boot from CD", then we have an array of options to help you. If you aren't even seeing the BIOS screen, then I'm afraid I don't know how to help you.

But don't try booting the liveCD first. Wait until the BIOS screen goes away, and then press ESC to hopefully enter the GRUB menu. Then try the instructions from my previous post.

Good luck.

---

### Post by Victormd on 2008-05-20
Sorry to hear that it didn't work...

> **willfriedwald said:**
> 1 - why did this happen - why does attaching a TV monitor screw up the resolution on the computer when you go back to a regular monitor?

when you hooked up the TV, your configuration file changed to match the TV properties and something kept it from going back... I have no idea why...

> **willfriedwald said:**
> 2 - is there any way to prevent this from happening in the future?
Once you have a functional computer, backup your xorg.conf file
```
 sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```

> **willfriedwald said:**
> 3 - is there any precaution I can take that it case it does happen, I can get back to normal?
See note #2 and restore your previously backed-up xorg.conf
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-20
bad news and good -

I wasn't able to get into the "grub" - when I powered on the computer, nothing happened at all - no screen of any kind.  

however, I put in the CDROM - pulled out the plug - then restarted it, and after 5 minutes it finally came on...

so should I re-install the system?  this is actually an 8.00 disc, which means I would install 8.0 and then upgrade to 8.04.  

or is there something else I should try before re-installing?

better than having to buy a whole new computer...

thanks!

w

---

### Post by Victormd on 2008-05-20
Before 8.04 there was 7.10, I'm not sure what you have there, but I would probably download the up-to-date Ubuntu release for the re-install...

---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-21
okay, I reinstalled, am back on track.

am going to look into the resolution thing - I STILL would like to use the TV as a monitor for watching movies etc. right before this happened, I ordered a big bunch of monitor extension cables (now I can connect the TV to the monitor from across the apartment), so am tempted to try agin.
 am not sure what the safest way to go about that would be.  

checking the TV manual, it tells me that the optimum resolution is 1920 x 1080 pixels - it does say that's for windows XP{, I imagine it would be the same for ubuntu (or would it?)

I did try attaching my Mac iBook (which is about 5 years old, a G3 book running OS 10.4) and it worked fine - nothing terrible happened.

I will proceed slowly...


------

PS: I just checked the resolution. two points:

1 - now that it's in the default mode, I notice that there are dozens of resolution choices available.  after  I had plugged in the TV, then looked at resolution options, there were only THREE choices available, and switching between the three of them didn't seem to make any difference.

2 - the default setting that it's currently on is 1680 x 1050 (you probably knew that)

thanks!

---

### Post by Victormd on 2008-05-21
> **willfriedwald said:**
> okay, I reinstalled, am back on track.

am going to look into the resolution thing - I STILL would like to use the TV as a monitor for watching movies etc. 

As I mentioned earlier, backup your xorg.conf and everything should be fine because you'll have a working configuration file that you can copy back and forth, or, better yet, you'll be able to see what's different between them and ultimately create a single configuration file for both settings. This is very easy and would take a simple reboot between changes...

> checking the TV manual, it tells me that the optimum resolution is 1920 x 1080 pixels - it does say that's for windows XP{, I imagine it would be the same for ubuntu (or would it?)
Yes, the resolution should be the same.

> 1 - now that it's in the default mode, I notice that there are dozens of resolution choices available.  after  I had plugged in the TV, then looked at resolution options, there were only THREE choices available, and switching between the three of them didn't seem to make any difference.

I think the issues you had were due to display frequency settings more than resolution issues because the resolutions are a function of the vertical and horizontal frequencies of the display, and most likely, they're different between the TV and your monitor... This is something you can check when/if you backup xorg.conf and plug in your TV (and get a new xorg.conf)...

---

### Post by unutbu on 2008-05-22
willfriedwald, if you can get 2 xorg.conf's, one that works with your monitor, and one that works with your TV, (let's call them xorg-mon.conf and xorg-tv.conf) then you can switch between them this way:

First make sure xorg-mon.conf and xorg-tv.conf is in the /etc/X11 directory. Then save this script in a file called 'mon'

```
#!/bin/bash
cd /etc/X11
cp xorg-mon.conf xorg.conf
```

Save this script in a file called 'tv'

```
#!/bin/bash
cd /etc/X11
cp xorg-tv.conf xorg.conf
```

Make both executable:
```
chmod 755 mon
chmod 755 tv
```

Then when you want to display on the TV, you could just type 

```
sudo tv 
```

and then press CTRL-ALT-Backspace.
Be aware that this will kill your X session (so close all apps before doing this) and restart X (thus re-reading xorg.conf).

When you want to display on the monitor, just type 

```
sudo mon
``` and then press CTRL-ALT-Backspace.

---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-22
guys thanks!  I am definitely going to try this ASAP!  

admittedly it seems a little awkward to have to go into terminal and screw around everytime I want to watch a movie that way, but it is a good first step, once I know that this works, then I (we?) can proceed from there!

thanks once again, will let you know what happens.

W

---

### Post by unutbu on 2008-05-22
Once we have scripts that work, you can create a menu item on your gnome panel, or make a launcher on your desktop to run the script.

To make a menu item on the gnome panel: Go to System>Preferences>Main Menu. Click on, say, Sound & Video in the left panel (the one that says Menus: at the top). Then click on the "+ New Item" button on the right. Name it whatever you want the menu item to say. For the Command, put gksudo followed by the absolute path to the 'mon' script, something like:

```
gksudo /home/willfriedwald/bin/mon
```

Do the same for the 'tv' script.

Making launchers is basically the same. Just right click on the root window and select "Create Launcher". Post if it isn't clear what to do.

---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-22
thanks yet again

after seven months or so of linux, I am still a clueless newbie..

I see how to get a list of what's in that directory:

will@will-linux:~$ cd /etc/X11
will@will-linux:/etc/X11$ ls
app-defaults             rgb.txt  xorg.conf   Xsession.d
cursors                  X        Xresources  Xsession.options
default-display-manager  xinit    xserver     XvMCConfig
fonts                    xkb      Xsession    Xwrapper.config
will@will-linux:/etc/X11$ 

but I don't know how to store these files in that directory!  am clueless - sorry!

I guess a first step is to open the current xorg.conf and see what's in there -

obviously I want to first open it and look without changing anything (I know that could screw up the whole system)...

I can do that in a text editor on the gui desktop?

sorry for the stupidity of these questions!

w

(incidentally, the info above is from my linux machine at the office,NOT the one at the home/apartment, which is the one I want to hook up to the TV...)

---

### Post by unutbu on 2008-05-22
> **willfriedwald said:**
> thanks yet again

after seven months or so of linux, I am still a clueless newbie..
No problem. Every trick you learn here will add to your bag of tricks and before you know it you'll be an expert.

> **willfriedwald said:**
> 
I see how to get a list of what's in that directory:

will@will-linux:~$ cd /etc/X11
will@will-linux:/etc/X11$ ls

Next time try
```
ls -l
```
It is prettier and more informative.

> **willfriedwald said:**
> but I don't know how to store these files in that directory!  am clueless - sorry!

If you are referring to the little bash scripts 'mon' and 'tv', I suggest you don't put them in /etc/X11. Instead, put them in /usr/local/bin or /home/willfriedwald/bin. This is just a matter of style, but I think most people would agree that /etc/X11 is not the place for it.

You own /home/willfriedwald, so you can put the scripts there with no root powers:

```

cd                   # Go to home dir
mkdir bin            # make dir called bin
cd bin               # Go inside bin
gedit mon            # Run text editor gedit on file mon
Cut and paste the mon script from the web page to the gedit window; Save and exit.
gedit tv
Cut and paste tv script; Save and exit.

```

> **willfriedwald said:**
> I guess a first step is to open the current xorg.conf and see what's in there -

Victormd's very good advice does not require you to edit xorg.conf at all! 

> **willfriedwald said:**
> 
obviously I want to first open it and look without changing anything (I know that could screw up the whole system)...

but Linux is all about freedom, so here you go:

```
gksudo gedit
```
Use the menu to go to /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Be careful not to save any changes, as I'm sure you know.

A safer way to look inside a file with absolutely no chance of modifying it is to type:

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf | less
```

Okay, now one more thing: The little scripts 'mon' and 'tv' are not going to work until after you obtain xorg-mon.conf and xorg-tv.conf. The way Victormd and I are suggesting that you obtain these files is by doing the following:

```
Boot computer.
Make sure the monitor is working as you like it.
cd /etc/X11
sudo cp xorg.conf xorg-mon.conf
```
You now have xorg-mon.conf -- it's just a copy of xorg.conf.

```
Plug the TV to the computer.
Do whatever it is you do to get the computer displaying to the TV. (Here, I'm the clueless newbie)
Presumably the computer automagically changes your xorg.conf.
cd /etc/X11
sudo cp xorg.conf xorg-tv.conf
```
That's how we're proposing to obtain xorg-tv.conf.

---

### Post by willfriedwald on 2008-05-22
thanks again!  will try this over the weekend, when I can take a deep breath and hopefully have the time to get it right!

w

---

