---
title: "~/.screenrc where is it?"
date: 2011-01-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lance bermudez on 2011-01-06
i feel really stupid asking this one. I thought it was in /home/user/.screenrc but i do not see it I used the ls -a and nautilus with ctrl+h and do not see it any where. i was going to try a Linux journal article on how to use screen and customize it.

---

### Post by LewRockwellFAN on 2011-01-06
Clicking Applications,Accessories,Search for Files  finds for me a file of that name (but not hidden, no dot(.), just plain screenrc, in /etc which is probably the one you want. I'm running the 32 bit 11.04 at the moment. If you don't see it there try running the search. There is another one in usr/share/doc/screen/examples in my system, presumably used as an , um ... example ... for some documentation on editing the real one. Just guessing.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-01-07
Have you installed and run screen? ~/.screenrc won't exist until you do.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-01-07
I have a feeling that ~/.screenrc doesn`t exist until you make it.

Before that screen reads /etc/screenrc
[B]
**Edit - yep I`m right, just make your fancy .screenrc and away you go - tidE**[/B]

---

### Post by lance bermudez on 2011-01-07
do i edit the screenrc in /etc/screenrc or move/copy it to /home/user? I have stated and used screen a # of times and no .screenrc appears in the home dir

---

### Post by QLee on 2011-01-08
[QUOTE=lance bermudez]do i edit the screenrc in /etc/screenrc or move/copy it to /home/user? I have stated and used screen a # of times and no .screenrc appears in the home dir[/QUOTE]

You might try saving a copy of the file in your home with the name, .screenrc, and use it as a template for any changes you wanted to try. Initially it would be the same and after you had uncommented parts or modified parts only your user would be affected and all you would have to do to get back to default would be to delete the .screenrc from your user home.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-01-08
Or just make your own.

The .screenrc in your home folder overrides the one in /etc.

If you mess it up just delete it.

---

