---
title: ".gz files"
date: 2010-11-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ericstrom on 2010-11-18
i want to download a program called rkward. The download page for the Lucid version (im runing lucid) shows the following:

Downloads
File	Size	MD5 Checksum
rkward_0.5.2.orig.tar.gz	1.1 MiB	c272660aa2eff52e357c33a8c25e0df5
rkward_0.5.2-1.diff.gz	6.9 KiB	969f8e36ca181086a77813baa42342f3
rkward_0.5.2-1.dsc	1.0 KiB	955b99f7d6f19c53ce7a0ed23d806073
Available diffs
diff from 0.5.1-0ubuntu1 to 0.5.2-1 (313.0 KiB)
Binary packages built by this source
rkward: a KDE frontend to the R statistics language
 RKWard aims to become an easy to use, transparent frontend to R,
 a powerful system for statistical computation and graphics.
 Besides a convenient GUI for the most important statistical functions,
 future versions will also provide seamless integration with an
 office-suite.

How do i download this ? What do i do with these .gz files ?

---

### Post by asmoore82 on 2010-11-18
Modern linux systems use sophisticated package management systems that
handle
downloading, installation, removal, updates, and dependencies of software.

If you are using plain Gnome-based Ubuntu, you can simply open
"Applications -> Ubuntu Software Center", search for rkward and install.

---

### Post by ericstrom on 2010-11-18
asmoore82

Thanks for the response. I'm sorry for the dumb question. I knew that. I just jumped to the conclusion that it would NOT Be in the software center. And I've seen the .gz files for a while now and never been clear how to handle them.

But you were right on. I went to the software center, put rkward in and there it was.

Once again...my mistake for not checking. And thanks for the response.

---

### Post by iponeverything on 2010-11-18
rkward_0.5.2.orig.tar.gz   : compressed archive
rkward_0.5.2-1.diff.gz     : compressed patch for source in the archive
rkward_0.5.2-1.dsc         : text file with information.

To open any of them, just click on it. Look at the contents of the archive for clues as to what to do with it. Many time they will have a file called "readme", "install" or something equally obvious.

---

