---
title: ".avi problems even after VLC 1.0.2 install"
date: 2010-01-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Duck86 on 2010-01-04
Hi! I'm a new Ubuntu User, using the Jaunty release.

I've been tinkering all afternoon trying to get video playing on the computer, but its not working. I installed Ubuntu yesterday and tried it with Totem player. Downloaded the .avi codecs,  no joy. I then tried downloading Dragon player, still no joy. Uninstalled Dragon and downloaded VLC 0.9.9a through Synaptic Package Manager. All I got was audio and no video on my avi files. Sometimes the player would just close itself down straight away without doing anything.

Then I really went hunting. Got instructions to download VLC 1.0.2 through terminal. (Some people said they had similar problems and dowloading VLC 1.0.2 helped) Went through the whole rigmarole and it still closes itself down when I go to play a file and I haven't even been able to get the audio I was getting (sometimes) before.

Anyone any ideas?

Thanks in advance

Duck

---

### Post by Duck86 on 2010-01-04
Trying this now:

> sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras

will post to let ye know how I get on

---

### Post by Duck86 on 2010-01-04
Still no go after installing restricted-extras  :confused:

---

### Post by Methuselah on 2010-01-04
If you are running desktop effects, try turning them off.
I don't know if this was an issue in 9.04 but it may be worth a try.

---

### Post by Duck86 on 2010-01-04
No, Im not running effects. I'm a minimalist :-P

---

### Post by Duck86 on 2010-01-04
I've tried running vlc through the terminal. I opened a file and got the following error message:


VLC media player 1.0.2 Goldeneye
[0x99a7140] main libvlc: Running vlc with the default interface. Use 'cvlc' to use vlc without interface.
QPainter::begin: Paint device returned engine == 0, type: 1
QPainter::begin: Paint device returned engine == 0, type: 1
[0x9fdb8a0] alsa audio output error: cannot write: Broken pipe
[????????] x11 video output error: X11 request 132.19 failed with error code 11:
 BadAlloc (insufficient resources for operation)
X Error of failed request:  BadAlloc (insufficient resources for operation)
  Major opcode of failed request:  132 (XVideo)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  19 ()
  Serial number of failed request:  106
  Current serial number in output stream:  107
Segmentation fault




I've still no clue...

---

### Post by Duck86 on 2010-01-04
I know whats wrong. :-(

I'm working from my Dell. It has an onboard Intel Graphics card, which as it turns out, Ubuntu 9.04 does not support:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1134283&highlight=avi+problems](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1134283&highlight=avi+problems)

---

### Post by rifter on 2010-02-27
Changing the video output to X11 video in vlc 

Tools -> Preferences -> Video -> Output -> X11 video output

will fix the badalloc error for most people.

Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic Koala improved support for onboard Intel video chipsets as well. Good luck.

---

