---
title: "12.04 how do i focuce ubuntu update to 12.10"
date: 2013-01-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by blake7 on 2013-01-03
thank you

---

### Post by Calinou on 2013-01-03
In the "Software Updater" menu, go to "Settings" then allow non-LTS upgrades to be shown. Then upgrade it like you would do it as usual.

---

### Post by blake7 on 2013-01-03
just had a look there and i can not see that 

cheers

can i do it thought the ternamal 

thank you

im not sure that its is working update manager

it has not been updated for 8 month and yet it says there are no updates that can not be right

---

### Post by blake7 on 2013-01-03
thank you

---

### Post by Pjotr123 on 2013-01-03
Do a clean upgrade; that's generally the best way:
[https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/upgrade](https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/upgrade)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-01-03
> it has not been updated for 8 month and yet it says there are no updates that can not be right

Then your settings are wrong or they are what you have set them to be.

We have options to check for updates 1) Daily; 2) Every two days; 3) Weekly; 4) Every fortnight; 5) Never.

We can be notified of updates 1) Immediately; 2) Weekly; 3) Every two weeks.

There is also an option to be notified of new releases of Ubuntu 1) For any new version; 2) For long term support versions; 3) Never.

Your system must be set to never check for updates and the notification of new releases must be set for long term support or never.

The next LTS release from after 12.04 is 14.04. You need to change this  setting to 'any new version.' Then a button will appear in Update Manager offering an upgrade to 12.10.

Regards.

---

