---
title: "13.04, Environment and search path not permanent"
date: 2013-08-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by zemega on 2013-08-26
Hi. I'm using Asus 1225B. I'm trying to get NCL running in my Ubuntu 13.04. The instructions are here [http://www.ncl.ucar.edu/Download/install.shtml](http://www.ncl.ucar.edu/Download/install.shtml) . 'uname -m' gives me i686. I downloaded the Debian version for i686. Followed the instructions. And its running. Now here's the problem, everytime I restart my laptop, when I typed the command 'ncl' its not working. What I found out is that when I repeat the instructions '**Set the NCARG_ROOT environment variable and your search path to where NCL/NCARG resides**', its working as it supposed to be. When I restarted, its not working anymore. I assume I should do the bash instructions instead of sh instructions. is this correct?

From bash or ksh (the file might be ".bash_profile" or ".bashrc" or ".bash_profile"):   
    export NCARG_ROOT=/usr/local/ncl-6.1.2
    export PATH=$NCARG_ROOT/bin:$PATH

I absolutely have no idea what to do about this.

Edit: Okay, I tested it again, apparently closing the terminal emulator also 'reset' this. So I have to open the terminal emulator, and type in those instructions before I can use NCL again. How do I solve this?

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-08-26
Hi zemega.

For system-wide (all users), add the path here:
```
/etc/environment
```
For instance, something like this:
```
PATH="/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/ncl-6.1.2/bin"
```
As per user basis, set this file in the users' home:
```
~/.pam_environment
```
For example:
```
PATH DEFAULT=${PATH}:/usr/local/ncl-6.1.2/bin
```
Note that the syntax is **different**.

Here's a good tutorial about [environment variables]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnvironmentVariables#Session-wide_environment_variables").

Hope it helps. Let us know how it goes.
Regards.

Note: this is for Ubuntu. I'm not sure if this applies for Debian at this point.

---

### Post by zemega on 2013-08-26
I remember that ~ is /home/something . How do I make NCARG_ROOT = /usr/local/ncl-6.1.2 ?

Edit:
When I put PATH DEFAULT=${PATH}:/usr/local/ncl-6.1.2/bin in the /etc/environment, log out and log in again, running ncl gives different error. So I think that NCARG_ROOT is hardcoded into the application. So I think I need to set into Ubuntu that NCARG_ROOT is equal to /usr/local/ncl-6.1.2 . Is this a correct approach?

---

### Post by zemega on 2013-08-26
Okay, I think I solved this. I edited /etc/environment to be like this:

PATH="/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games:/usr/local/ncl-6.1.2/bin"
export NCARG_ROOT="/usr/local/ncl-6.1.2"

And the magic step is to log out and log in again. Before I edited ~.profile, ~.bashrc, and /etc/environment. When I restarted the laptop, it got stuck into infinite loop after splash and before logging in. I'm going to be working for a few hours before I try restarting this laptop again to see if I have any problems, so I'll report back later.

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-08-27
Don't use the keyword 'export' on /etc/environment.

This would do fine:
```

PATH="/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games:/usr/local/ncl-6.1.2/bin"
NCARG_ROOT="/usr/local/ncl-6.1.2"
```
Regards.

---

### Post by zemega on 2013-08-28
That's true, I'm going to mark this as solved. Anyway, this forum really needs a sticky thread of what to do in Ubuntu when the instruction gives general Linux instructions, when Ubuntu apparently changed many things.

---

