---
title: "M.I.A. window minimize, maximize, and close buttons?"
date: 2009-01-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ||Z0di4C|| on 2009-01-02
i dont know i just got on firefox today and the minimize maximize and close buttons are not there, not only that but the whole bar is gone and the desktop work bar on the bottom is gone how do i fix this?!?!

---

### Post by caro on 2009-01-02
Use the F11 key.  It takes Firefox into full screen mode.

If it keeps launching in full screen mode, hit F11 twice to get back to "normal" and then use the maximize/unmaximize button on the window to get the screen where you like it.  Close FF and then relaunch and it should save your settings.

---

### Post by Bölvaður on 2009-01-02
that was a good guess that firefox is fullscreened, but it might not be the case so lets keep guessing.

If the panels are not showing when there is no program you launched, then you might need to start them: Alt+F2  and type : gnome-panel

it also looks like metacity isnt enabled or any other window manager, I cannot remember the command but it was something like, metacity --replace or something

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-01-02
Yes..if the window decorator has died, in a terminal:

metacity --replace

will restart it

---

### Post by caro on 2009-01-02
There seems to have been quite a few posts recently about Firefox defaulting to full screen, so I started with the easiest to check.  :D

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-01-02
> **caro said:**
> There seems to have been quite a few posts recently about Firefox defaulting to full screen, so I started with the easiest to check.  :D

And I suspect you are right...

The odds of the window decorator dieing are slim and I have not had it happen since goofing around with emerald and the like.

---

