---
title: "12.04 new intall of ubuntu and ive just down loaded flash"
date: 2013-01-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by blake7 on 2013-01-05
but the bbc site and 4od does still not work 
and keep saying to down load flash which i have done from
ubuntu software center

can you help

---

### Post by scratman on 2013-01-05
Head over to [http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/]("http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/") and download it from there.

---

### Post by TheodoreP on 2013-01-05
I would suggest downloading and installing the "Ubuntu restricted extras" package from the software center.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-01-05
What hardware have you got; there are some ATI graphic cards which will not work at all with the latest flash 11.2.202, mine included, an ATI 9200SE.

I have installed the 11.1.102 version which works well, but note the security warnings on that linked page, and use flashblock and/or no-script if you do use the earlier version..
[Flash 11.1.102-63]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1953796")

---

### Post by iMac71 on 2013-01-05
> **blake7 said:**
> but the bbc site and 4od does still not work 
and keep saying to down load flash which i have done from
ubuntu software center

can you helpit might be that those sites require a more recent flash plugin version (i.e. 11.3 or newer) than the one shipped with ubuntu restricted extras; if so, the only solution is to install google chrome, that uses the pepper modified release of flash plugin.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-01-05
> **iMac71 said:**
> it might be that those sites require a more recent flash plugin version (i.e. 11.3 or newer) than the one shipped with ubuntu restricted extras; if so, the only solution is to install google chrome, that uses the pepper modified release of flash plugin.
The BBC and 4oD both work well with flash 11.1.102, so I don't think that's the problem.  If the problem is a result of the ATI card incompatibility I mention above, Google Chrome will not help as the version of flash in that (pepperflash 11.5.31.5) does not work with that card either.

@OP -  Have you got other flash applications installed as well as adobe flash, eg gnash, swfdec etc etc?  If you have, remove them and try flash again; the best site to test your flash is [http://www.adobe.com/software/flash/about/](http://www.adobe.com/software/flash/about/) which will tell you the version and all details.

A final thing you could use is the firefox flashaid add-on, which ensures any conflicting flash apps are removed from the system before installing the most recent version, but be warned, if you have the ATI problem it will not work as flashaid installs 11.2.202 by default.

---

### Post by tlhIngan on 2013-01-05
> **blake7 said:**
> but the bbc site and 4od does still not work 
and keep saying to down load flash which i have done from
ubuntu software center


> **ajgreeny said:**
> What hardware have you got; there are some ATI graphic cards which will not work at all with the latest flash 11.2.202, mine included, an ATI 9200SE.

I have installed the 11.1.102 version which works well, but note the security warnings on that linked page, and use flashblock and/or no-script if you do use the earlier version..
[Flash 11.1.102-63]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1953796")

What CPUs are you guys running? The issue is often not the graphic card but the CPU. Flash 11.2+ requires SSE2 support from the CPU.

---

### Post by blake7 on 2013-01-06
sorry im still haveing problems
with the bbc

i have a dell
latitude 
d420

Genuine Intel® CPU U1300 @ 1.06GHz

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-01-06
I am using an AMD Sempron 2400+ which "cat /proc/cpuinfo" shows sse but not sse2 support.  Perhaps that is the problem?

Assuming google chrome's pepper-flash 11.5 also needs sse2 support, it explains why the flash in chrome does not work either.

---

### Post by neu2buntu on 2013-01-08
the problem might be as i experienced where i think firefox does not search the path where the gnash plugin is installed in 12.04. to fix this i copied it to the correct location.
in my case i had to create a "plugins" folder in ~/.mozilla/firefox/h6ap750f.default/  ( im unsure if the h6ap750f.default will be the same for everyone tho) and copy libgnashplugin.so from /usr/lib/gnash/libgnashplugin.so  into the new plugins folder you just created hth ;)

then in firefox goto tools>addons and enable gnash and restart firefox ;)

---

### Post by scratman on 2013-01-08
I'm using a Dell Latitude E6400 as follows:-

Ubuntu
[INDENT][/INDENT]Release 12.04 (precise) 32-bit
[INDENT]Kernel Linux 3.2.0-35-generic-pae[/INDENT]
[INDENT]GNOME 3.4.2[/INDENT]

Hardware
[INDENT]Memory:- 3.9 GiB[/INDENT]
[INDENT]Processor :- Intel® Core™2 Duo CPU T9600 @ 2.80GHz × 2[/INDENT]

Firefox :- 17.0.1  Mozilla Firefox for Ubuntu Canonical -1.0
          
Adobe Version 11,2,202,258 installed

Both 4OD and iPlayer work fine for me

---

