---
title: "11.10, ipheth and linux-sources"
date: 2011-11-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by auraithx on 2011-11-26
Hi,

Just installed 11.10 on my pc, I use my iPhone 4S as my main internet connection at home.

Trying to get the internet to work on my ubuntu install but it didn't recognise it naturally and I had to install ipheth (according to mr. google). Downloaded the general .deb file and installed (Install was greyed out for some reason so I installed via dpkg -i) but it appeared to have installed fine, produced no errors. and now reads as 'Installed' when I open the .deb file. But it doesnt seem to do anything? Tried searching for 'ipheth' in the unity search thing to see if it had a GUI but it didnt return any results other than the original .deb file.

So the next step was trying to make the ipheth specifically for 11.10 and my chipset. But I kept running into this error ```
markg@markg-HP-Compaq-dc7700-Small-Form-Factor:/media/FREECOM HDD/Others/8188cus-Linux/driver/rtl8192CU_linux_v2.0.1042.20100902$ make
cp: target `HDD/Others/8188cus-Linux/driver/rtl8192CU_linux_v2.0.1042.20100902/include/autoconf.h' is not a directory
make ARCH=i386 CROSS_COMPILE= -C /lib/modules/3.0.0-12-generic/build M=/media/FREECOM HDD/Others/8188cus-Linux/driver/rtl8192CU_linux_v2.0.1042.20100902  modules
make[1]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-3.0.0-12-generic'
make[1]: *** No rule to make target `HDD/Others/8188cus-Linux/driver/rtl8192CU_linux_v2.0.1042.20100902'.  Stop.
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-3.0.0-12-generic'
make: *** [modules] Error 2
markg@markg-HP-Compaq-dc7700-Small-Form-Factor:/media/FREECOM HDD/Others/8188cus-Linux/driver/rtl8192CU_linux_v2.0.1042.20100902$
```

So I googled that error and I came across this page [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1047374](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1047374)

And from this I gathered that I would have to install build-essentials or the linux-source.

As the ability to make/compile programs inst bundled within the default Ubuntu installation.> [13:08] <oCean> Auraithx_: programs for most users are available through repositories and they don't need to compile anything. Just installing the package build-essential will give you the tools required for compiling

I spent about 2 hours in the #ubuntu IRC room trying to find a way to install the above without an internet connection, but a lot of people seemed to think it wouldn't be possible? I have tethering working on a seperate laptop and I can download and copy any neccesary files onto a USB disk.

Would appreciate any input.

---

### Post by auraithx on 2011-11-28
bump, anyone have any input? :(

---

### Post by scarleo on 2011-11-28
Don't you have wifi tethering on that phone? Should create a hotspot for you that you can connect to with your ubuntu laptop so no need to download to another laptop and then transfer.

---

### Post by auraithx on 2011-11-29
> **scarleo said:**
> Don't you have wifi tethering on that phone? Should create a hotspot for you that you can connect to with your ubuntu laptop so no need to download to another laptop and then transfer.

My computer doesn't have a stock WiFi card, I have a WiFi dongle but I cannot install the drivers for it as I need to compile it (and I dont have build-essentials installed)

I found this keryxproject.org - which would solve my problem, but it doesn't work on 11.10.

---

### Post by auraithx on 2011-11-29
Problem Solved.

To fix this I connected my laptop (win7) to my iphone via wifi tethering and then joined them with a Ethernet cable. Bridges the connection in Windows long enough to download all the essential stuff and get my WiFi working.


ps: for people finding this thread via google; I couldn't get USB tethering to work via ipheth. It says on the website it says it supports up to the iPhone 3G. So if you have a model higher than that you're out of luck. Also the program doesnt even open properly in 11.10

---

