---
title: "Is 8.10 Stable?"
date: 2008-12-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by zutronius on 2008-12-07
I am currently running Ubuntu Studio 7.0.4 on my Compaq f500 laptop due to Hardy Heron being unstable on this machine (making it unusable). Is 8.10 a relatively stable OS on laptops? I'm asking because I'd like to try out the newest ubuntu distro but am worried about having to deal with the nightmare of an unstable system.

---

### Post by PocketDog on 2008-12-07
Unstable in what way? You can't get any more stable than an established LTS. Try the live CD for a bit. It'll be slow but you'll find out if it's more compatible than Hardy for your hardware.

---

### Post by zutronius on 2008-12-07
It would randomly crash my laptop after a half hour or so and make it unusable. I had to downgrade to 7.0.4. I'm wondering if was a result of a video card issue (Nvidia).

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2008-12-07
Gutsy was my favorite Ubuntu so far. But 8.10 detects my wireless card (where as I had to use ndiswrapper). Didn't have any probs with Hardy except now I can't share my scanner. (Getting off track) I have no prpbs with 8.10. I had probs with 7.04, but I was new so it may have been "pilot error".

---

### Post by mhh91 on 2008-12-07
yes,8.10 is stable

---

### Post by jamil_1 on 2008-12-07
I don't think it is stable at least in my case. Feisty was rather stable. Intrepid has started to behave oddly ofter a few improper shutdowns (because of power failure).Now I have long boot times and no network connection. Intrepid even stucks some times.](*,)

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-12-07
Personally I've found it to be **very** stable on my laptop, I've had a few issues with it sure, but they were minor and easily fixable.

As somebody said above, try the Live CD for a bit, see if it throws up any errors then :)

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2008-12-07
try it on a usb stick and see how the laptop runs

---

