---
title: "14.04 Locks Up Get's Overwhelmed - Can't Dock Digital Camera"
date: 2014-05-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Grendel336 on 2014-05-04
I will start by saying I am using a "very old" Dell laptop computer. A Latitude D620. So I am using the 32 bit version of everything. 

I've been using Ubuntu for a long time time. I recently upgraded to the 14.04 LTS. I downloaded and created the DVD, and installed 14.04 from DVD. 
I've never had success doing a major release upgrade wirelessly. 

First issue I noticed immediately was that I could not dock my digital camera. It just won't be recognized. 

Biggest and by far the most annoying problem I'm having though is the entire computer becomes locked up when viewing many different web pages on the internet. 
Any page with video content just completely overwhelms the system and the screen goes to gray-out and won't respond for minutes on end. 

Youtube videos often do it too. I do have the pepper flash player thingy installed. 

I did mention my laptop is quite old, but Mint 9 and previous versions of Ubuntu have run flawlessly for the past few years on the same computer. 

Is there just too much new stuff running in background of 14.04 now for older computers to handle? 

And why won't 14.04 recognize my Nikon digital camera when I connect it via a usb port? 


Thanks for your help and any suggestions.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-04
The lock up in 14.04 doesn't appear so far at least to be specific to hardware.  i've seen a lot of posts about systems locking up in 14.04 in the last few days.  My system had been running fine since the final beta and with all subsequent updates until some updates earlier this week.  Since then I've been having the same lock up issues.  I'm going to look for a bug report in launchpad and add  myself to the "effects me" too.

I find it interesting with your camera as well.  This had worked fine for me as well until these same updates earlier in the week.  Since then I plug in the USB cable from the camera, turn on the camera, and nothing.  It's never seen by the system now.  I thought perhaps I was doing something strange by some means that would make no sense to me (after all - I can't really screw up just plugging in a USb cable ;) ), but since you are having this problem as well I'm going to look for a bug report on that as well.

---

### Post by llamabr on 2014-05-04
It's not impossible that your old hardware is having trouble keeping up with the demands of the software.  It would be a matter of memory, and it may be that you didn't allocate sufficient swap?

Regarding the camera, plug it in, wait 10 seconds, and then paste the output of:

```
dmesg | tail
```

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2014-05-05
I have a few Latitudes that are sister models of the D620. Mine are D820s. I am sure that they share the same video subsystem. If so, then your D620 is not really powerful enough to run Unity 3D. Please post output of```
lspci -vk | grep -iA20 vga
``````
free
```Because *squakie* has been experiencing the same symptoms, it may simply be a bad update that broke something, in which case, the only solution may be to wait for a subsequent update that fixes it.

However, you may wish to try a completely different option and install Xubuntu or Lubuntu instead. This is what I've done on my D820s, and these leaner-meaner flavours have breathed new life into these old machines. Whereas they laboured under Ubuntu 12.04 (even when constrained to 2D), they are fast and responsive especially under Lubuntu. I suspect that your graphics issues may go away as well, but at the cost of eye candy (Lubuntu's interface is pretty stark). Can't make any predictions about the camera though.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-05
I just looked in syslog tonight, and every time I tried to get the camera recognized the system did see it, but then it said unable to mount mtd device.  I thought mtd was for Android devices, but I'm probably wrong there.  At any rate, my camera is just an old Kodak digital camera.  On the other hand, my Android tablets both show and mount fine.   A little odd.......

and btw - I *think* this problem started at the same time I started getting lock-ups.  Probably something in those updates that needs fixing.

---

### Post by Grendel336 on 2014-05-05
Easy things first. Prior to installing 14.04 I was running 13.08. Computer ran fine. Camera mounted fine. No issues. 

Is 14.04 that much more cumbersome than 13.08? 

It's not like I upgraded from from 8.04 or something that old.

Also - I've been having these issues right from the start of upgrading to 14.04.

---

### Post by Grendel336 on 2014-05-05
> **DuckHook said:**
> I have a few Latitudes that are sister models of the D620. Mine are D820s. I am sure that they share the same video subsystem. If so, then your D620 is not really powerful enough to run Unity 3D. Please post output of```
lspci -vk | grep -iA20 vga
``````
free
```Because *squakie* has been experiencing the same symptoms, it may simply be a bad update that broke something, in which case, the only solution may be to wait for a subsequent update that fixes it.

However, you may wish to try a completely different option and install Xubuntu or Lubuntu instead. This is what I've done on my D820s, and these leaner-meaner flavours have breathed new life into these old machines. Whereas they laboured under Ubuntu 12.04 (even when constrained to 2D), they are fast and responsive especially under Lubuntu. I suspect that your graphics issues may go away as well, but at the cost of eye candy (Lubuntu's interface is pretty stark). Can't make any predictions about the camera though.

> ed@ed-Latitude-D620:~$ lspci -vk | grep -iA20 vga
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
	Subsystem: Dell Device 01c2
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 16
	Memory at dff00000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=512K]
	I/O ports at eff8 [size=8]
	Memory at c0000000 (32-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
	Memory at dfec0000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=256K]
	Expansion ROM at <unassigned> [disabled]
	Capabilities: <access denied>
	Kernel driver in use: i915

00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
	Subsystem: Dell Device 01c2
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0
	Memory at dff80000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=512K]
	Capabilities: <access denied>

00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation NM10/ICH7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 01)
	Subsystem: Dell Device 01c2
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 43
	Memory at dfebc000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
ed@ed-Latitude-D620:~$ 



> ed@ed-Latitude-D620:~$ free
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:       1016444     931012      85432     241120       5308     368904
-/+ buffers/cache:     556800     459644
Swap:            0          0          0
ed@ed-Latitude-D620:~$ 




Hope this is what you were asking for.

---

### Post by Grendel336 on 2014-05-05
> **llamabr said:**
> It's not impossible that your old hardware is having trouble keeping up with the demands of the software.  It would be a matter of memory, and it may be that you didn't allocate sufficient swap?

Regarding the camera, plug it in, wait 10 seconds, and then paste the output of:

```
dmesg | tail
```

> ed@ed-Latitude-D620:~$ dmesg | tail
[   47.073890] audit_printk_skb: 150 callbacks suppressed
[   47.073896] type=1400 audit(1399318593.469:62): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_replace" profile="unconfined" name="/usr/lib/cups/backend/cups-pdf" pid=2274 comm="apparmor_parser"
[   47.073908] type=1400 audit(1399318593.469:63): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_replace" profile="unconfined" name="/usr/sbin/cupsd" pid=2274 comm="apparmor_parser"
[   47.074609] type=1400 audit(1399318593.469:64): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_replace" profile="unconfined" name="/usr/sbin/cupsd" pid=2274 comm="apparmor_parser"
[  673.692211] usb 4-1: new full-speed USB device number 2 using uhci_hcd
[  673.865207] usb 4-1: New USB device found, idVendor=04b0, idProduct=0170
[  673.865216] usb 4-1: New USB device strings: Mfr=1, Product=2, SerialNumber=3
[  673.865222] usb 4-1: Product: NIKON DSC COOLPIX S560-PTP
[  673.865226] usb 4-1: Manufacturer: NIKON
[  673.865230] usb 4-1: SerialNumber: 000036267071





Thanks for the help

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-06
Precisely.  I don't know when you updated to 14.04 - some time in the last 2 weeks or so?  The timing would be interesting since my problems - lock ups and camera not mounting - have only started in the last couple of weeks.  Lock ups in particular since early last week.  Camera worked before, but not actually sure if I tried it in 14.04 (pretty sure I did and it worked), but the camera doesn't mount now.  When you plug the camera in and wait a few minutes, then go to syslog itself, do you see the message like I get about an MTP device?  That message for me follows after the information where the camera is recognized - it happens after that when it is actually trying to mount the file system from the camera.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2014-05-06
> **Grendel336 said:**
> Hope this is what you were asking for.Yes it is. Just a few observations:

1. You have an Intel video chipset which is a surprise. Most of the D620 were (at least to my knowledge) nVidia chipsets. Intel makes things easier in one sense because your 14.04 drivers will already be the best you can get for it. It makes things tougher in another sense because we can't attribute the bad behaviour to a sub-optimum driver and there isn't much you can fiddle with in an attempt to further optimize video performance.

2. You only have 1 GB system memory, which is not really sufficient for Ubuntu. This will prove to be your primary resource constraint going forward.

As already mentioned, I run both Xubuntu and Lubuntu on my old D820 laptops with the same 1 GB RAM and they run quickly and rock solidly. Aside from waiting for the next update and hoping that it resolves whatever may be causing the instabilities in your system, I'm out of ideas.

---

### Post by Grendel336 on 2014-05-07
> **squakie said:**
> Precisely.  I don't know when you updated to 14.04 - some time in the last 2 weeks or so?  The timing would be interesting since my problems - lock ups and camera not mounting - have only started in the last couple of weeks.  Lock ups in particular since early last week.  Camera worked before, but not actually sure if I tried it in 14.04 (pretty sure I did and it worked), but the camera doesn't mount now.  When you plug the camera in and wait a few minutes, then go to syslog itself, do you see the message like I get about an MTP device?  That message for me follows after the information where the camera is recognized - it happens after that when it is actually trying to mount the file system from the camera.

Yeah, I did the "upgrade" less than 2 weeks ago. :(

I'll try to look at syslog sometime later today and get back to you.

---

### Post by Grendel336 on 2014-05-07
> **DuckHook said:**
> 

2. You only have 1 GB system memory, which is not really sufficient for Ubuntu. This will prove to be your primary resource constraint going forward.


And I'm fine with that to some extent, but as I said, my previous full version of Ubuntu (13.08) ran just fine AND my digital camera mounted wonderfully. 

I may just end up re-installing my 13.08, but I'm hoping a "fix" for this magically appears soon. 

For the time being I can happily exist running Mint 9  and giving Ubuntu warriors some time to "discover" a fix to these issues.

---

