---
title: "32 or 64 bit?"
date: 2010-04-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by grobar87 on 2010-04-13
anyone tell me how to know what version of ubuntu to download 32 or 64bit?

---

### Post by s_ø on 2010-04-13
If your computer can run 64 bit, download that.
Do you know what processor you have?

---

### Post by grobar87 on 2010-04-13
Intel dual core...2.0GHz 
???

---

### Post by MichealH on 2010-04-13
A good way to find out is if you are on windows Vista+ you can goto the Experience Index number and view the details and It will tell you if its 64 bit capable. I, for one checked that and Mine does so Yipee! If the 64 bit capable thing doesnt show up you are running 64 but **now**.

---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2010-04-13
To be on the safer side you can download the 32 bit version as it works very well on a 64 bit machine also. I have tried 64 bit vesion but it did not work well with my 64 bit AMD machine.

---

### Post by lyceum on 2010-04-13
Yeah, 32 bit is the way to go either way, but if you can't figure it out and really want to know, download the 64 bit and try to install. If you don't have 64 bit (which it sounds like you don't) it won't let you install as you won't have the right hardware, at least that's been my experience.

---

### Post by grobar87 on 2010-04-13
Ok i will try 64bit version and i know for sure...tnx to all :)

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2010-04-13
It depends on how much ram you have. 32 bit can handle up to 4gb's, if you have more you can either use 32 bit with a pae kernel or 64 bit.

---

### Post by grobar87 on 2010-04-13
i forget...
so what the difference between 32 and 64?64 is much better or what?

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-04-13
> **grobar87 said:**
> i forget...
so what the difference between 32 and 64?64 is much better or what?

If you do a forum search this topic has come up many time with lots of discussions.

However this is why I use 64 bit.
[http://www.tuxradar.com/content/ubuntu-904-32-bit-vs-64-bit-benchmarks](http://www.tuxradar.com/content/ubuntu-904-32-bit-vs-64-bit-benchmarks)

To see if your machine can run 64 bit use this command
```
cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep model

```

---

### Post by Calash on 2010-04-13
Go 64bit.  There are very few 64bit only issues left to worry about.  It is where computers are going, so if you switch now you will not have to worry about it a few years from now.

---

### Post by grobar87 on 2010-04-13
thank you ! :)

---

