---
title: "Dual booting fedora 9 with hardy"
date: 2008-05-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by stueau on 2008-05-13
hey,
I've just installed fedora on a separate partition, but my computer only boots Ubuntu...

A bit of research has led me to find that fedora isn't that great at recognising other distros on the hard drive (unlike ubuntu apparently).

In the installation of fedora, it asked where I want to store to boot system, either on the master or on my newly created partition. Not wanting to do anything to damage my working ubuntu  installation, I said to create it on the new partition. I think this may have been the error, though I'm not sure. Now, on booting ubuntu, there is a /boot volume appearing on my desktop, which I imagine shouldn't be there...

Any suggestions? Thankyou in advance.

---

### Post by Het Irv on 2008-05-13
I think you need to either add a line in GRUB or Restore Fedora's Bootloader (GRUB?).

This is an older thread, but it might help.
[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-general-1/fedora-boot-loader-no-longer-appears-384949/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-general-1/fedora-boot-loader-no-longer-appears-384949/)

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-05-13
you should have just installed grub to the MBR (master boot record), it would have booted ubuntu and fedora  no problem (it does for me anyway)

as for the desktop icon i have no idea (it will probably disapear if you delete all fedora paritions and reinstall the right way)

> (GRUB?).

yes, fedora uses grub, its the same boot loader ubuntu uses

> Not wanting to do anything to damage my working ubuntu installation, I said to create it on the new partition
no need to worry because you could always pop in the live cd and restore the original grub if anything goes wrong with fedoras boot loader

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2008-05-13
I think it would be easier to just add the proper entries into the Ubuntu grub.

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-05-13
> I think it would be easier to just add the proper entries into the Ubuntu grub.

yea, thats probly a better idea, now that youve gotten this far (but next time you should just install to the mbr)

---

### Post by Het Irv on 2008-05-13
[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-software-2/adding-a-new-entry-to-grub-271903/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-software-2/adding-a-new-entry-to-grub-271903/)

This might help you if you need it.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2008-05-13
I wrote a brief how-to on this :

[How to Multi-boot (Maintain more then 2 OS) - Ubuntu Forums]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=724817") 

It depends on how you set up Fedora, LVM ?

You almost certainly have a fedora /boot partition somewhere ....

IMO it is easiest to install gurb into the ubuntu partition and chainload from fedora, although you can go the other way as well.

Setting up Fedora, however, depends on if you used LVM and / or a separate /boot partition for Fedora ...

---

### Post by stueau on 2008-05-14
Thanks for all the replies. As a 'non-expert' I'll try the simplest first: deleting the fedora partition and starting again...

I'll give it a go tonight and post here the results.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by Oldsoldier2003 on 2008-05-14
> **stueau said:**
> Thanks for all the replies. As a 'non-expert' I'll try the simplest first: deleting the fedora partition and starting again...

I'll give it a go tonight and post here the results.

Thanks again.

nooo the easiest solution will take about 2 minutes since you can see the fedora boot partition... just copy the fedora boot information to the end of Ubuntu's /boot/grub/menu.lst if you don't feel confident in setting up multiboot as per Bodhi's tutorial.

---

### Post by stueau on 2008-05-14
hmmm ok, got that reply a little late. That make a lot of sense having read through a few forum entries on other sites. Thanks for the attempt to stop me doing something stupid, appreciated.... However, I'm an idiot, so I've just reinstalled fedora and was actually looking all good. However, I now cannot boot ubuntu!

Apparently, I need to edit the /boot/grub/menu.lst file as mentioned by Oldsoldier2003. I've been looking at various 'How to's but I can't really get my head round all the issues... Anyway, I thought I'd post details here and hopefully somebody could tell me what to put in the menu.lst file?

Harddrive partitioned thus:

/dev/sda1 <- ubuntu 8.04
/dev/sda3 <- /boot partition for fedora 9
/dev/sda4 <- LVM volume for fedora 9
/dev/sda2 <- not sure, was there for the ubuntu install Filesystem: "extended"
    /dev/sda5 <- again not sure. Filesystem: "linux-swap"

Current contents of /boot/grub/menu.lst:

```
# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /boot/, eg.
#          root (hd0,2)
#          kernel /vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/VolGroup00/LogVol00
#          initrd /initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/sda
default=0
timeout=5
splashimage=(hd0,2)/grub/splash.xpm.gz
hiddenmenu
title Fedora (2.6.25-14.fc9.x86_64)
	root (hd0,2)
	kernel /vmlinuz-2.6.25-14.fc9.x86_64 ro root=UUID=743afcdc-88f7-4466-a9fd-1170102d2a17 rhgb quiet
	initrd /initrd-2.6.25-14.fc9.x86_64.img


```



So, having messed this up quite alot I could do with some help. To recap the situation is as follows:

- originally running ubuntu 8.04
- wanted to install fedora 9 alongside ubuntu
- created space on my hard drive using the GNOME partition editor on the ubuntu live CD
- installed fedora using the empty space to create a new partition, installing GRUB on the MBR
- now can only boot fedora and have no idea how to configure grub...gah!

Many thanks for you help and/or patience!

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2008-05-14
LOL

1. Boot Fedora. Add this stanza to /boot/grub/menu.lst :

[quote]Title Ubuntu 8.04
root (hd0,0)
chainloader +1[quote]

At the bottom, below the Fedora Stanzas ....


2. Boot the Ubuntu live CD, open a terminal ...

```
sudo grub
```

At the grub prompt type:

```
root (hd0,0)
setup (hd0,0)
quit
```

Reboot -> viola you can now boot either Fedora or Ubuntu. When booting Ubuntu you will get a second grub screen, select Ubuntu again. If you like you can edit the Ubuntu /boot/grub/menu.lst and change the defaults to boot faster ...

---

### Post by louieb on 2008-05-14
To boot Ubuntu just add a configfile in Fedora's menu.lst 

it will look something like this
```

title        Linux on (hd0,0) configfile
      configfile (hd0,0)/boot/grub/menu.lst

```


May have to adjust the (hd0,0) part. What you are doing is telling Fedora's GRUB to use Ubuntu's menu.lst.  Works great.
more good stuff on GRUB  [IDBS GRUB Page]("http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm")

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2008-05-14
Very cool option louieb

---

### Post by stueau on 2008-05-15
cheers bodhi.zazen, worked a treat.

Also thanks louieb, although went for the other option, thought I'd know what was going on more if I needed to configure the grub in the future.

---

