---
title: "Grsync: Persisten attr transferrence error messages"
date: 2011-09-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-09-01
I sync an important folder from My UbuntuOne to my Dropbox and I'm persistently and consistently getting a small number of error messages (details attached).
I've trawled google for this issue and have found what is almost my problem described. However I feel I've never totally understood, and think this would be a good time for understanding it properly.
In the past I've just deleted the offending file or folder, but in this case the files are ones I'm working on and want to keep.
The files are not being transferred to the daughter folder in Dropbox.

---

### Post by aeiah on 2011-09-01
those look a lot like temp files that are generated by gedit and openoffice as you're actively working on the documents. perhaps the documents cease to exist (or are changed, or locked due to writing) during the transfer?

do the documents continue to exist after you've closed the relevant applications?

try running the same thing in normal rsync with verbose logging and see if it tells you more

```

rsync -aPv /home/andavane/Desktop/fingleOwen /home/andavane/Desktop/Dropbox


```

---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-09-01
> **aeiah said:**
>  
>"do the documents continue to exist after you've closed the relevant applications?"

The source files (*.gedit & *.odt) continue to exist the source folder (FingleOwen) after saving and exiting.
In the daughter folder (in Dropbox) I get the picture attached showing 2 folders with white space conflict.

Verbose was ticked in options in previous  posting as it is now.

Below are the results from the terminal.


> andavane@andavane-VGN-S3HP:~$ rsync -aPv /home/andavane/Desktop/fingleOwen /home/andavane/Desktop/Dropboxsending incremental file list
rsync: link_stat "/home/andavane/Desktop/fingleOwen" failed: No such file or directory (2)

sent 12 bytes  received 12 bytes  48.00 bytes/sec
total size is 0  speedup is 0.00
rsync error: some files/attrs were not transferred (see previous errors) (code 23) at main.c(1060) [sender=3.0.7]
andavane@andavane-VGN-S3HP:~$ rsync -aPv /home/andavane/Desktop/FingleOwen /home/andavane/Desktop/Dropbox
sending incremental file list
FingleOwen/.dropbox
          46 100%    0.00kB/s    0:00:00 (xfer#1, to-check=1013/1015)
FingleOwen/Perennials/Archives/libreoffice/Backup_docs/
FingleOwen/Perennials/Archives/libreoffice/Backup_docs/A1LRBD8-IBM Quote.bak
       87552 100%    1.49MB/s    0:00:00 (xfer#2, to-check=1007/1333)
FingleOwen/Study/Blog/Cedilloid/2011/110813 ~ The Surprise Prize /
FingleOwen/Study/Blog/Cedilloid/2011/110813 ~ The Surprise Prize /110813  The Surprise Prize.gedit
        2821 100%    6.74kB/s    0:00:00 (xfer#3, to-check=1053/2799)
FingleOwen/Study/Blog/Cedilloid/2011/110813 ~ The Surprise Prize /110813  The Surprise Prize.odt
       31185 100%   74.28kB/s    0:00:00 (xfer#4, to-check=1052/2799)

sent 201122 bytes  received 578 bytes  134466.67 bytes/sec
total size is 804350344  speedup is 3987.85
andavane@andavane-VGN-S3HP:~$ 


---

