---
title: "Install an executable"
date: 2015-09-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mervynb on 2015-09-09
I receive an account via email in an encrypted file with the extension .efa

When I was using Windows I downloaded the decryption application which installed itself.  To view the encrypted file all I needed to do was to double-click on it and a readable copy was opened in the default browser.   A separate window was created on the desktop with a pushbutton to destroy the decrypted file after it had been viewed.

With Windows, everything worked like magic. Now that I'm using Ubuntu 14.04 I'm having problems.  :(

I have downloaded a tar containing an executable Encrypt which I have extracted.

When I try to open the encrypted file using "Open with other Applications"  I'm asked to select an application but Encrypt is not in the list.

How do I get the executable Encrypt into the list of "Other Applications"?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-09-09
First time im seeing that .efa extension  ;) so i cant help much
[http://dotwhat.net/file/extension/efa/8619](http://dotwhat.net/file/extension/efa/8619)
so ecryptfs-utils might be usefull; but the link above also propose a  download icon.

the other solution is to open it from wine -> windows guest

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-09-09
I am of the opinion that for this to have work in Windows you would have needed to install a special application. And so it is in Linux.

You have downloaded Ecrypt for Linux and it was an archive file which you extracted. Now you need to install the application. For Ubuntu you need a file with the .deb extension. Open that using the Ubuntu Software Centre with a right click on the file and select Ubuntu Software Centre and the Software Centre will install the application for you.

In Ubuntu .deb files are in some ways equivalent to Windows .exe files. 

Regards.

---

### Post by mervynb on 2015-09-10
> **dino99 said:**
> First time im seeing that .efa extension  ;) so i cant help much
[http://dotwhat.net/file/extension/efa/8619](http://dotwhat.net/file/extension/efa/8619)
so ecryptfs-utils might be usefull; but the link above also propose a  download icon.

the other solution is to open it from wine -> windows guest

The .efa extension is used by a proprietary encryption program to process invoices generated by my mobile phone service provider.  The decryption application is available for Windows, Linux, Mac and Android operating systems.

I'm trying to get the Linux version working so that I can be rid of Windows once and for all. :p

---

### Post by mervynb on 2015-09-10
> **grahammechanical said:**
> I am of the opinion that for this to have work in Windows you would have needed to install a special application. And so it is in Linux.

You have downloaded Ecrypt for Linux and it was an archive file which you extracted. Now you need to install the application. For Ubuntu you need a file with the .deb extension. Open that using the Ubuntu Software Centre with a right click on the file and select Ubuntu Software Centre and the Software Centre will install the application for you.

In Ubuntu .deb files are in some ways equivalent to Windows .exe files. 

Regards.

The Tar file that I downloaded contained only the ecrypt file which is marked as executable.  It wouldn't execute though until the penny dropped and I moved it to the bin folder.  I can now run ecrypt, which requires a .efa file as a parameter, from a terminal and it creates a temporary folder with a set of .html files which can be viewed.  A lot less elegant than the Windows solution where all it needs is for one to double-click on the .efa attachment in the email for it to be opened automatically in the browser.  Still, I can at least view the account without resorting to Windows which was the object of the exercise. :p

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2015-09-10
You should be able to replicate the double-click open behaviour by creating a desktop launcher

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToAddaLauncher](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToAddaLauncher)

---

### Post by mervynb on 2015-09-11
> **steeldriver said:**
> You should be able to replicate the double-click open behaviour by creating a desktop launcher

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToAddaLauncher](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToAddaLauncher)



I've managed to access the .efa file from a terminal using the following command.

/bin/ecrypt /home/mervyn/Documents/VodacomInteractiveBill_Sep2015.efa

The response was  

Open the following file please
/tmp/EFA.KjEXJW/index.html

You should delete the following temporary directory after using the files
/tmp/EFA.KjEXJW


I've used Windows for years but I'm completely new to Ubuntu.   

I've had a look at the link and it appears that I need a BASH script to automate this as ecrypt needs to be passe a filename.

In Windows all I need to do is double-click on the attachment and the .html file opens automatically in the default browser.

A separate form is created on the desktop which has a pushbutton to delete the temporary files and directory.

Is there any way to emulate this (or even to come close) using a BASH script?

Added later.

Please ignore this message. 

Firstly, it's off the  original topic which was to get ecrypt working.  

Secondly, now that I've  been pointed towards BASH scripts I need to do some reading before I  start asking for help with them.

---

