---
title: "12.04 does not recognize my samsung galaxy s4 (thinks it is a s2)"
date: 2013-06-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by hansnn on 2013-06-26
First of all, I've searched all over the web and tried every solution I can find but nothing works.

When using usb3.0 ports, I get this error every time I try to enter the filesystem: **Error initializing camera:-1:unspecified error**
When using usb2.0 ports, I only get this error sometimes. Other times I can indeed enter the filesystem, but all the folders are completely empty.

When I do 'lsusb', the output is: ```
 Bus 001 Device 006: ID 04e8:6860 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd GT-I9100 Phone [Galaxy S II] 
``` It's the same on both 2.0 and 3.0 usb ports.

Please ask if you need any other information.

I would prefer a solution that allows me to install and test my own android applications on the device.

If you have any idea how I can troubleshoot/fix this it's very appreciated. Thanks!

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-06-26
There have been LOTS of threads complaining about how badly Linux recognizes the Samsung S3 -- with no good solutions.

I read that it worked  better with 13.04 and tested it, and indeed, when I connect my S3, a windows opens showing the SD card and the Phone filesystems.

Sorry, but I've not found any good solutions with 12.04 or 12.10 with that phone -- or any Android device that uses the ICS or JB versions of their OS.

---

### Post by roger_1960 on 2013-06-26
Hi

With android 4.0 and above and 12.04 the best solution for file management I have found is to set your phone as an FTP server and connect to it using Filezilla (or similar) in linux.  This gives full access to the phone memories (and system if rooted).  The ftp server can be set up using free apps such as ES filexplorer or eshare.  You of course need the devices on the same wifi network.

Roger

---

### Post by boregard on 2013-06-26
+1 on ftp, thats how i got android tablet to work.

---

### Post by cortman on 2013-06-26
Never got my s2 to work the way you describe too, although I have scoured the web for help. It just doesn't look possible.
+1 for FTP.

---

### Post by hansnn on 2013-06-26
Thank you all for replying. I will definately try to use FTP.

I'm guessing I wont be able to test my android apps, then. I'm all for installing 13.04 but sadly it's not good friends with my lenovo g580.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2013-06-26
the version of libmtp in 12.04/12.10 is too old I think
Try [http://www.webupd8.org/2012/12/how-to-mount-android-40-ubuntu-go-mtpfs.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2012/12/how-to-mount-android-40-ubuntu-go-mtpfs.html)

---

### Post by hansnn on 2013-06-26
Using an FTP server was easy and works great. Thanks.

I would mark the thread as solved except it's strangely not an option in my 'Thread Tools'

---

### Post by boregard on 2013-06-26
> **hansnn said:**
> Using an FTP server was easy and works great. Thanks.

I would mark the thread as solved except it's strangely not an option in my 'Thread Tools'

go to the first post in your thread and clk on edit then click on the GO ADVANCED in there you will find option to change prefix to solved.

---

### Post by brian-pongonova on 2014-06-02
Actually, it works fine under 12.04 and 12.10 if you follow these instructions:

[http://www.computerandyou.net/2012/01/how-to-fix-android-samsung-galaxy-s2-not-recognized-on-linux/](http://www.computerandyou.net/2012/01/how-to-fix-android-samsung-galaxy-s2-not-recognized-on-linux/)

---

