---
title: "9.04 LAMP - Phpmyadmin"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by superharas on 2009-11-04
Hi,

So, I installed LAMP server on my Ubuntu 9.04 Home edition.

Apache works fine, PHP works fine, but PHPMyAdmin doesn't work or I don't know how to use it.

How do I go to the 'Phpmyadmin Control Panel', I tried doing Localhost/phpmyadmin .
But it doesn't work, can anyone please say how to get to phpmyadmin.

Thanks

---

### Post by thescubadude on 2009-11-04
Have you installed phpmyadmin?

**sudo apt-get install phpmyadmin**
**sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart**

[FONT=Arial][SIZE=2]After installing my phpmyadmin it was not working and I had to do the following:[/SIZE][/FONT][B]

sudo ln -s /etc/phpmyadmin/apache.conf /etc/apache2/conf.d/phpmyadmin.conf
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 reload[/B]

After doing th above I could access phpmyadmin at: localhost/phpmyadmin

I got this error when restarting apache: 
*apache2: Could not determine the server's fully qualified domain name, using 127.0.0.1 for [ServerName]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerName")*

to fix it I had to do the following:
**echo "ServerName localhost" | sudo tee /etc/apache2/conf.d/fqdn**
                                                                                                       
                                                                 
I got this info from these two links:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ApacheMySQLPHP](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ApacheMySQLPHP)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/phpMyAdm]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/phpMyAdmin")

---

### Post by superharas on 2009-11-04
Restartign Apache is not working !?
I don't know why ?
I get the following message;
>  * Starting web server apache2                                                  Syntax error on line 1 of /etc/apache2/conf.d/fqdn:
Invalid command '*', perhaps misspelled or defined by a module not included in the server configuration


---

### Post by OffAxis on 2009-11-04
your configuration file has a problem.

you can edit it with

```
sudo nano /etc/apache2/conf.d/fqdn
```

Or just remove it with
```
sudo rm /etc/apache2/conf.d/fqdn
```

Either way you need to reload your configs:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 reload
```

you can delete that file; you don't actually have to have anything as the fqdn.

the line:
```
Could not reliably determine the server's fully qualified domain name, using 127.0.1.1 for ServerName

```
is just a warning; not an error (it's just letting you know there isn't a fqdn, it doesn't break the set up).

---

### Post by superharas on 2009-11-04
Thanks this worked, but if I try logging in, it doesn't work.
I tried as my user name I created, and as admin with no password.
I get the following error:
> #2002 - The server is not responding (or the local MySQL server's socket is not correctly configured)

---

### Post by OffAxis on 2009-11-04
for username did you try 
**admin **
or 
**root**? 
(I forget which is the default)

if your password or username is wrong it'll tell you so.
Not receiving a response is usually indicative of the server not being installed, the server not running, or the server running on a different port.

First off, try restarting mysql.

```
sudo /etc/init.d/mysql restart
```
That may fix your problem.
If not then try logging in from the command line.

```
mysql -u <your username> -p
```

and then input your password. If you have no password drop the -p.

If that works then it's your phpmyadmin that's borked. You might be able to correct it with
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure phpmyadmin
```

otherwise you can manually edit the configuration file.
**/etc/phpmyadmin/config-db.php**
(which is auto generated from this file)
**/etc/dbconfig-common/phpmyadmin.conf**

---

### Post by superharas on 2009-11-05
I don't know what is wrong with my Ubuntu ?
But, now I have an other error showing up: >  * Starting MySQL database server mysqld                                 [COLOR=Red][fail][/COLOR]

---

### Post by superharas on 2009-11-05
Anyone ?

---

### Post by OffAxis on 2009-11-05
looks like your mysql install is messed up.

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure mysql-server
```

(I think that'll do it. The package name could be mysql-server-5.1 or mysql-server-5.0)

you could also try purging the package and starting over.

```
sudo apt-get purge mysql-server
```

---

