---
title: "11.10 and Clonezilla - sysprep required?"
date: 2012-01-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by JeremySchubert on 2012-01-03
Before moving over to 11.10, I syspreped my xp box and created an image as a backup with Clonezilla.  I need to reload my xp image to reclaim some data I forgot to export.  Are there any pre admin tasks I need to complete (like sysprep) to my 11.10 box before I create an image?
Thanks,
Jeremt

---

### Post by SteveDee on 2012-01-03
> **JeremySchubert said:**
> ...Are there any pre admin tasks I need to complete (like sysprep) to my 11.10 box before I create an image?...

No, the 2 processes are quite different. You can create a clone of your ?buntu system at any time using Clonezilla. Probably the only restriction is that your target disk must be as large as (or greater than) your original. When you re-image your ?buntu you will immediately have a running system.

However, when you image an XP system and use sysprep, the re-image process is not a direct image of the original. When it boots for the first time, it goes through a Windows mini-install. You should be aware that you can't just keep cloning and syspreping an XP image. I think it only works 3 times.

The way we re-image XP systems is to create a working image and save it as a "pre" image. We then sysprep it to create a "post" image we can deploy. That way, if we need to make changes, we go back to the "pre" image, make changes, save the "pre" image, then create a new syspreped "post" image for deployment.

I hope this helps.

---

