---
title: "Resolution problem"
date: 2008-05-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dnns123 on 2008-05-08
When I log in, my resolution is twice as big than i need.
I fix this problem by going to the NVIDIA X server settings and setting the resolution to 1024x768.
The problem is that i have to do this every time i boot up.

I installed the graphics driver by the hardware devices menu.

How do I keep my 1024x768 resolution when I boot up? my refresh rate is 85 Hz

---

### Post by sy88 on 2008-05-08
Edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf by going to the SubSection "Display" under the Section "Screen" and putting the correct resolution for your mode (ie. Modes "1024x768"). Then just restart X by ctrl-alt-bksp or restart your computer.  See how that works out?

---

### Post by dnns123 on 2008-05-08
My Screen section looks like this
oddly, I dont have a Display sub section
Can you edit the screen section so ill just copy it?

> 
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection


---

### Post by dnns123 on 2008-05-08
This is what my whole xorg.conf looks like

> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection


---

### Post by sy88 on 2008-05-08
```
Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
Defaultdepth 24
SubSection "Display"
    Depth   24
    Modes "1024x768"
EndSubSection
EndSection 
```
Should do it.  Btw, is this a fresh install of Hardy?  I just *recently* learned that Hardy doesn't put screen resolution info in the xorg conf, so others might provide a gui or more user-friendly method.

---

### Post by dnns123 on 2008-05-08
Thanks a lot! I learned 2 things from you. How to restart X and how to configure my xorg.conf
I just realized that its like HTML programming :P

---

