---
title: "10.04 with Win 7 dual boot questions..."
date: 2010-07-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2010-07-20
I need to ask some questions before I get into putting Ubuntu 10.04 into my new computer (Asus UL50AG-RBTK03 from XoticPC). I've got a little different situation and asked about it here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1532183]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1532183") 
*Dual boot for warranty purposes* ~ Pg. 2 & 3, Post #17 and #19 thru #22 tells the story quickly. 

Two things I'm wondering about for now...

I made a full recovery disk right after starting up the computer. I also have  a minimized recovery disk XoticPC made and sent with the machine... they left off all the bloat-ware. 

I understand I can shrink Win7 some amount (has hidden recovery section, I believe) and use the remaining space for 10.04. 

Is there any advantage to clearing the computer with Live Disk and putting minimized Win 7 in first partition?

So you know, I don't need room in a computer. My now-deceased Ubuntu 6.06 laptop had 30GB total and I wasn't using half of it. 

Other question is:

I've got all "my stuff" backed up on a USB memory stick. Coming from Ubuntu 6.06, is it going to go into Ubuntu 10.04 seamlessly?

Mike

---

### Post by SkyNet2029 on 2010-07-21
Hmmm.
I think I understand your questions now. Had to read them over some coffee. :D

I too dual boot Win 7 (Ultimate) 64 bit and Ubuntu 10.04 (also 64 bit).

What I did was this:

Install Windows 7, allocating 40 GB of space. You will have a small boot partition for windows, and the system partition, also for windows.
Install Ubuntu, allocating the remaining drive space to Ubuntu.


> Is there any advantage to clearing the computer with Live Disk and  putting minimized Win 7 in first partition?

Windows needs to be installed first, as Ubuntu will install the Grub2 bootloader into the MBR of your drive, allowing you to choose to boot either into Windows or Ubuntu at system startup.
If Windows is installed AFTER Ubuntu, then you won't have this option available to you.


> 've got all "my stuff" backed up on a USB memory stick. Coming from  Ubuntu 6.06, is it going to go into Ubuntu 10.04 seamlessly?

Short answer: Yep. This is the easy part. Just plug in the USB drive and copy the necessary files.

I Hope that I understood your question and was helpful.

---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2010-07-21
A screen-shot of the hard drive is attached. Seems to me there are three existing partitions, one hidden (recovery, I assume), OS that I can try to shrink and "data" that I don't know if I should delete or shrink or if it can be used for combined data storage with 10.04. 

Mike

---

### Post by clive littlewood on 2010-07-21
Hi

Remember that Linux can "see" all your other partitions so utilizing the windows data partition is fine.

I actually use my windows backup partition (data) to store relavant files that I need for both windows and Ubuntu.

Clive

---

### Post by Thryn on 2010-07-21
For what it's worth, I dual-boot Ubuntu and Windows 7 on an ASUS UL30A, which has the same default partitions on it. I shrank data significantly to make room for Ubuntu - when installing, it's the furthest-to-the-right partition, and therefore the one that you can easily make smaller.

But I don't think it matters that much where you get the space (OS or Data) or how much you make, as long as it's enough for the OS, because as clive says, you can read and write to both OS and Data from Ubuntu quite easily (which was fortunate for me, since I had saved a file of wireless settings in OS...). It makes sense to put a little extra space in your Ubuntu partition though, just to have enough for programs and whatnot.

---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2010-07-21
> **SkyNet2029 said:**
> I Hope that I understood your question and was helpful.

I didn't respond specifically to this and I should have. Yup, helpful and thanks. 

I think you did understand... that getting Win 7 very small and not using it would be facilitated by manual 10.04 partitioning and putting Win 7 minimal in. 

I just don't know that I need to maximize space for Ubuntu, really, so the question about advantages.

Mike

---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2010-07-21
Well, I'm confused... you all are going to find I don't get stuff easily.

If I shrink the Win "OS" partition down, does the space go to "data"? 

Is that "data" Win 7 specific (I thought Ubuntu was read-only on NTFS)?

If I then shrink "data", the rest of the space becomes 10.04 but there is only one primary partition left. 

Does it make sense (is it possible?) to use Live CD install to delete Win 7 "data"? 

In the end, though I don't intend to use Win 7 at all (warranty stuff only), it seems like having combined storage area (documents, pics, etc.) might be found to be useful... but I don't know the "why's and "why not's" of that.

Does it make sense... to have Win 7 "data" amount, a combined use storage, and /home? 

Mike

---

### Post by kameleontti on 2010-07-21
Mike, those 3 (primary) partitions, as you showed in your attached pic, is quite common style within laptop manufacturers nowadays. 
That small first partition is for their own, usually linux-based, quick-start environment - I suppose it lays there or that partition is reserved for it. Windows 7 itself doesn't need such tiny starting partiton. 
Windows 7 is installed on that 2nd partition and it is set active, first bootable partition in your machine now - sometimes Windows 7 boot loader can be installed on that 1st partition, but in your computer it's not, bcause that 1st partition seems not to be fat/ntfs-partition, so not usable for windows boot loader. That 3rd partition is reserved - or made for - to your data - noticeable that's not primary partition, it's logical drive (I suppose that no more primary partitions can't be created after it, so for that it should be backed up, then destroyed and then recreated as primary partition if such needed). Often in Windows and in any OS is good idea to have separate partitions for OS and for data - bcause in that way you can easily even format your OS installation partition and install all as clean start and thus have your separate data partition untouched while you do that OS reinstallation. 

But, because PC standard (despite any OS) is such that physical disk can only have max 4 primary partitions and partition that boots any OS has to be primary partition. Moreover there can be many secondary partitions/logical drives after primary partitions, but they together take one of those primary partition max count. So either only max 4 primary partitions and no logical partitions, or max 3 primary and several logical partitions can exist on single physical hard drive. And computer can only boot on primary partition, so master boot loader (so for example grub or windows boot loader) must exist on such primary partition. 

Moreover your machine propably has hidden restore partition for the factory installation setup files, at the end of hard disk. 

I had also in my new laptop such a preinstalled partition structure, so 3 partitions. But, I took first backups and then I installed my machine so that repartitioned it, getting rid of that manufacturer quickboot-OS-partition (bcause I use 3G-mobiledata when I'm on the way with my laptop and that quickboot-OS couldn't use my 3Gmobiledata, so it was quite useless to me). 

It's a shame and not so good habit of pc/laptop makers to have that small quickboot-os-partition at the start of hard disk, bcause it takes one primary partion out of possible 4 and it's more difficult to get rid of it, compared that it would be after primary OS partitions. That could be easily possible, bcause any of hard disks primary partitions can be defined as active first boot partition, so that quickboot tiny partition doesnt need to be first partition. But pc makers dont think about users so often, as we sure know. 

I made new partitions, 1st 40gb for windows 7 and sofware, 2nd large partition for my data (windows 7 ntfs formatted, of course). I left empty unpartitioned space for linux installation, according to my estimated needs for it. And installed machine from the OS backup.

Procedure that I used was
- I made total backup of whole windows installation with windows own backup to usb-attached hard disk (takes some time if much data!)
- I made windows system repair disk (hit F1 and search 'system repair disk' for instructions how to do that) 
- I booted machine with that system repair disk, went to terminal in it and used diskpart-command to delete existing partitions and to create new ones (find information in web how to use that command or look with help diskpart, and format command within it too) 
- I used system repair disk to restore back that backup I first made 
* of course one can do that repartitioning with ubuntu live cd too or other more easy way 

Then after windows backup restore I installed linux by making 3rd partition for swap memory and 4th root-partition for linux installation. 

With my dual/severl OS boot machines I'm used to use windows 7 own bootmanager with Easy BCD utility 

[http://neosmart.net/dl.php?id=1](http://neosmart.net/dl.php?id=1) 

to configure/add other OSs to it's boot meny. So I don't install grub in the start head of my machines hard disk. I install grub in the root of linux / partition (that can be select in final step of ubuntu installation and with other distros too) and then in Windows 7 with Easy BCD I add linux. Just like linux worlds boot loader grub, can Windows own boot loader handle too several and non-windows OS too. The only problem is that Windows has natively not so easy method to configure its boot loader selections - that's we need free Eeasy BCD to do that. 
In that method one can actually install Windows after linux too at any bootable primary partition. 

But Mike, I suppose that you asked advice how to measure partitions for your two OS and data. My suggest you to just think a little, how you are going to use those OSs and what programs to install in them. 
To my mind I'd reserve allways at least 30gb to Windows (itself it needs 10gb + virtual memory(swap-like space) and win-partition should never get too full, at least 25% ought to be free space). 
For ubuntu too and with all it's programs and basic user home stuff it's wise to reserve at least 25gb space nowadays. 
And the rest for your data partition. 
Remember that despite ubuntu can quite good utilize windows ntfs partition as data partition, it may be wise not to trusto too much on it. Reading form ntfs partition is allways safe but writing/updating to it may have some risks in certain situations. 
So, for linux heavy use may be wise to have a data space within its installation.

I advice to do the win ntfs-partition shrinking in windows, not in ubuntu installation - bcause it's allmost all wiser to do things "at home the home way". 

Repartitioning is sometimes difficult, bcause may be that you can't move the start point of partition, only the end point, so to enlarge or shrink partition at the end. That's why repartitioned my computer from the scratch to get rid that small 1st partition - bcause it was not possible to just delete it and to enlarge windows installation, 2nd, partition to it's space, so that 2nd partition to start at very start at the disk, where 1st small partition was. 
And that's bcause partition file format file-bookkeeping is relative to the start point of partition - so if partition start moved, all files should be moved or whole partition file bookkeeping should updated. And that's not so quick operation to do. 

I noticed that there is some move-function in ubuntu installation partitioning, but I haven't tried to use it. If someone knows whether it really can move existing partition start point at earlier point in disk, and especially with win ntfs partitions too, please let us know.

---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2010-07-21
Whew! OK... I think  =] Probably not though... =[  One question kameleontti, if boot has to be in primary and "D: Data" is a logical partition, doesn't the Windows boot have to be in the "OS C:" partition?

I stumbled into:  Win 7 > Start > search: disk > "create and format hard disk partitions". I checked each partition and attached screen shots. The screen shots show the result of right clicking on each partition and either clicking "delete" (first 14.65 Part.), or "shrink" on the second two (pics after windows analyzed space-change available). 

First pic makes it look like a simple thing to remove 14.65 non-Windows partition. 

Mike

---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2010-07-27
Given I'm just looking to keep Win 7 on the computer for warranty diagnosing, etc., and not intending to use it at all (would update Win 7 and associated AVG anti-virus, drivers, etc.), I'm trying to understand my options.

I used a partition tool to get a close look at the hard drive and attached pics of those pages.

Am I seeing this right? ... that "OS" (C:) is extended primary and "Data" (D:) Logical is part of that extended primary?

I know little about this... have read a lot but understand "not much". It seems like a possible solution to get "Data" (D:) into "OS" (C:), thereby having 2 primary partitions with 2 more (one extendable) primary partitions available for Ubuntu. 

Yeah, I know I shouldn't be guessing from a no-knowledge basis. I need help with this if you have time/interest.

Mike

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-07-27
Mike post the bootscript in my signature in code tags as described. It is important to make sure that all of the W7 boot files are in C if your planning on removing the recovery.

---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2010-07-27
> **wilee-nilee said:**
> Mike post the bootscript in my signature in code tags as described. It is important to make sure that all of the W7 boot files are in C if your planning on removing the recovery.

I don't know what I'm planning...  =] Is getting existing "Data" (D:) into existing "OS" (C:) non-functional? Like it won't leave a fairly large volume of "free space" and two partitions, one extendable?  Not arguing, mind you, just clueless...

It doesn't seem like I can use "bootscript" without running 10.04 LiveCD or UNetbootin thumb drive... is that right?

Mike

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-07-27
> **Mike Krall said:**
> I don't know what I'm planning...  =] Is getting existing "Data" (D:) into existing "OS" (C:) non-functional? Like it won't leave a fairly large volume of "free space" and two partitions, one extendable?  Not arguing, mind you, just clueless...

It doesn't seem like I can use "bootscript" without running 10.04 LiveCD or UNetbootin thumb drive... is that right?

Mike

Yes the bootscript has to be run from a Ubuntu environment an live cd or thumb will work.

As of now you have 3 primary partitions, unless there is a hidden partition that would show in the bootscript output.

You mention a backup minus crapware, is this a fully installable OS with your warranty kept intact?

---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2010-07-27
> **wilee-nilee said:**
> You mention a backup minus crapware, is this a fully installable OS with your warranty kept intact?

Yes...

And I got this from XoticPC today... 

[I]Hello,
There is no other hidden partitions besides the recovery partition.

There is really not a way to view the recovery partition. If you have created or purchased a recovery disk you can delete this item if you would like. However we do usually recommend leaving this partition in tact.[/I]

I've asked them if the recovery disk reestablishes the "Recovery" partition and the "Data"(D:) partition as well as the "OS"(C:) partition (minus bloat-ware). I think it may, but knowing the structure/form/whatever of it seems like it might be handy.

Mike

---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2010-07-27
Here you go...

Mike



```
                Boot Info Script 0.55    dated February 15th, 2010                    

============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Windows is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda

sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       vfat
    Boot sector type:  Vista: Fat 32
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   /bootmgr /boot/bcd

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows Vista/7
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  Windows 7
    Boot files/dirs:   /bootmgr /Boot/BCD /Windows/System32/winload.exe

sda3: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda5: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows Vista/7
    Boot sector info:  According to the info in the boot sector, sda5 starts 
                       at sector 63.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 320.1 GB, 320072933376 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinders, total 625142448 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1               2,048    30,717,951    30,715,904  1c Hidden W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sda2    *     30,717,952   187,002,879   156,284,928   7 HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3         187,002,880   625,141,759   438,138,880   f W95 Ext d (LBA)
/dev/sda5         187,004,928   625,140,399   438,135,472   7 HPFS/NTFS


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/loop0                                              squashfs                                 
/dev/sda1        3C98-AC5D                              vfat       RECOVERY                      
/dev/sda2        B86E223D6E21F532                       ntfs       OS                            
/dev/sda3: PTTYPE="dos" 
/dev/sda5        1C50248E502470A6                       ntfs       DATA                          
/dev/sda: PTTYPE="dos" 

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

aufs             /                        aufs       (rw)
/dev/sr0         /cdrom                   iso9660    (ro,noatime)
/dev/loop0       /rofs                    squashfs   (ro,noatime)
/dev/sda2        /media/OS                fuseblk    (rw,nosuid,nodev,allow_other,blksize=4096,default_permissions)

```

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-07-28
So it looks like you could remove the recovery sda1  and expand C=sda2 into that space. sda3 is a extended with sda5 which is probably shown as D in the computer area of the W7 setup.

A single HD can only have up to 4 primary partitions which is what sda1 and sda2 are. You can have 3 primaries and a extended though. 

If it was me I would delete the recovery since you have a full install DVD. expand C=sda2 into the area sda1 was in, with the windows partitioner. Then empty D sda5 and delete sda5 and sda3 with gparted from a Ubuntu live cd. This would leave you with a large unallocated space, which you can put a ntfs primary into, your size choice as a shared partition that both OS can read and write to.

Then let the Ubuntu just install to the largest free unallocated space automatically. Some like to build partitions ahead of time and some like to have a separate home, but personally I just keep all my data backed up on a external HD so what is in my home is only the basic setup for the OS, I don't separate home from the OS.

I have seen extended partitions used in windows but it is unusual I believe, and only for data partitions. Extended partitions don't hold anything but other partitions.

You could also just shrink sda5 with the windows partitioner, leaving unallocated space inside sda3, and install Ubuntu there without deleting.

It is difficult for us to know exactly how your warranty is going to play out in all of this, since it is usually the whim of the manufacturers staff that make a difference on the phone with them.

I have a acer computer that acer wouldn't fix unless I put the original XP back on, they considered the W7 upgrade and Linux OS as not part of the original plan.

---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2010-07-29
I see that...

I'm wondering if the stuff in "Data"(D) can be moved into "OS"(C)?  Would "OS" be happy with that... storing data with "OS"? 

Seems, if that can be done though Windows, then "Data" deleted, it would leave two primary partitions to use for Ubuntu, one of them extended.

What is that stuff in "Data" anyhow? If all I'm doing is keeping Win7 around to keep the warranty folks an avenue for exploration, I, personally, don't need the partition/space. 

Or maybe it's move the stuff in "Data" through Win7, shifting sizes if needed, then unformat/format "Data" into Ubuntu types, primary with extended afterwards?

It's gone late and I think I'm chasing my tail...

Mike

PS... Just thought... do all logical partitions in an extended partition need to be the same? Like all NTFS, or can they be mixed?

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-07-29
> **Mike Krall said:**
> I see that...

I'm wondering if the stuff in "Data"(D) can be moved into "OS"(C)?  Would "OS" be happy with that... storing data with "OS"? 

Seems, if that can be done though Windows, then "Data" deleted, it would leave two primary partitions to use for Ubuntu, one of them extended.

What is that stuff in "Data" anyhow? If all I'm doing is keeping Win7 around to keep the warranty folks an avenue for exploration, I, personally, don't need the partition/space. 

Or maybe it's move the stuff in "Data" through Win7, shifting sizes if needed, then unformat/format "Data" into Ubuntu types, primary with extended afterwards?

It's gone late and I think I'm chasing my tail...

Mike

PS... Just thought... do all logical partitions in an extended partition need to be the same? Like all NTFS, or can they be mixed?

You will have to look in D to see whats there generally all the windows OS is in C though, but you have a computer set up for gaming I believe, it may different , probably not though.

A extended can have multiple logical partitions, here is a picture of my set up in gparted. all the partitions are labeled.
[ATTACH]164903[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2010-07-30
I have been getting help from both ASUS and XotiPC tech. support along with the help here. 

The folders in "Data"(D) are specific to the partition... those two folders exist in each of the other two partitions (contents of folders varies for specific use of partition). Either of, the folders can be deleted from "Data(D), then that partition can be deleted, or the partition can be deleted and folders will go with... is my understanding now. 

I'm thinking doing the above will leave the HD with "Recovery" as primary, "OS"(C) as primary, "unallocated space" in which one primary and one extended partition can be created. It seems that would suffice me... "/" as primary, extended with /home, swap. 

I don't know for sure but my understanding is Windows does not see Ext2, Ext3, Ext4 file systems. Also believe, but don't know, "OS"(C) will not have a fit over not seeing "Data"(D). That last is a thing I can worry about... whether or if-possible... there should be a folder added to "OS"(C)that "looks like" "Data"(D) to "OS"(C)?

Why Ext4 instead of Ext3 (or Ext2)? Is there a comprehensive discussion link you know of? 

Mike

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-07-30
You can use a ntfs partition as a sharing partition for both the OS to access, which can be read or written from either.

Your smart to speak with the manufacturers that set up your system.

---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2010-07-30
I thought NTFS files didn't work "read/write" from both sides... that a person needed to use something like this for combined data storage...[http://www.fs-driver.org/extendeddl.html]("http://www.fs-driver.org/extendeddl.html") which I got here... [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/partitioning]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/partitioning") (See 5th partition scenario). 

I had a short yap with Steve Schreiber (author of Ext2 Installable...) asking if his solution worked for Win7. He said he is working on it... no time table. 

If it were available *and* I was looking to actually use Windows, I'd likely try it. Given I'm just holding Win7 for a couple of warranty-years and I can set up "aysiu's" 7th partition scenario (second link above) in my "assumed to be available" primary and extended partitions, I'll go that way. 

I might do some further extended-partition partitioning but I'm going to need to find some discussion about the various pro's and con's of that... if anyone knows of links to discussions, I'll be happy to have them.

I think maybe I just got lucky having ASUS and XoticPC to talk to. I'm not sure I'd have had the same kind of help from others... at least, I wouldn't bet it that way.

Mike

Edit:  I'd be happy to have links to Ext2, 3, 4 "why's/why nots" as well as extended-partition-use links... or input, for that matter, but I'm figuring it has be chewed well already...  =]

Re-Edit:  Never mind the Ext's request... found stuff here that led me to... [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ext4]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ext4")... then [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ext3]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ext3")

---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2010-08-06
I ran "check disk" and "disk clean-up" on Win7, then "defrag.". I've shrunk Win7 to original size + 25%... ended up in the 40GB range... rebooted a few times. After doing that, I followed ASUS Tech Support instructions for deleting Primary "Data" (D:)... that is... using windows disk management as admin., right clicking "Data", then "delete". That turns "Data" into "free space" (still NTFS). Right clicking "free space" again, then "delete" turns it into "unallocated"... rebooted a few more times and Win7 appears to be happy enough. 

My intention is to use the space (240GB approx.) as Primary "/" and Extended Primary with "/home", "free space", "swap". 

I've looked around and haven't come to an understanding of whether "swap" needs to be at the end or if "free space" needs to be at the end. What I may use "free space" for is to place a new Ubuntu release in before proper upgrading.

Any thoughts on "swap" and/or "free space" position and/or use would be helpful.

Mike

---

