---
title: ".ogg file conversion to .flv"
date: 2009-09-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by stoppage on 2009-09-30
Hi, has anybody found a working GUI for Ubuntu 8.04 to convert .ogg to .flv without too much quality loss?

---

### Post by boblemur on 2009-10-01
what you are after is probably ffmpeg:

```
sudo aptitiude install ffmpeg
```

try something like:
```
ffmpeg -i inputfile.ogg outfile.flv
```


i dont think that there is a gui for ffmpeg but you can look on google you might be able to find a linux one.

good luck :) also if you get stuck try:
```
man ffmpeg
```

and it will give you more information about it :)

---

### Post by marchwarden on 2009-10-01
If you are looking for a GUI try Avidemux (it's in the repo's...somewhere)

---

### Post by Eisenwinter on 2009-10-01
I doubt this conversion is even possible, because ogg is a sound format, flv is a video format.

If you want to convert some video file which also has audio in it, to an flv file, THEN you can specify that you want the audio to be in ogg format.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-10-01
Hi Eisenwinter,

> **Eisenwinter said:**
> I doubt this conversion is even possible, because ogg is a sound format, flv is a video format.

Strictly speaking flv is actually a *container* that can hold a variety of sound formats, with or without video although I have never seen such a file wihout video. Sound formats are commonly mp3 or aac and you can see below that FFmpeg at least defaults to mp3 sound with such a conversion:

```

andrew@skamandros~/Desktop$ **[COLOR="Red"]ffmpeg -i Beethoven_Quartet_05.ogg -ab 128k test.flv[/COLOR]**
FFmpeg version SVN-r20110, Copyright (c) 2000-2009 Fabrice Bellard, et al.
  built on Oct  1 2009 11:11:30 with gcc 4.3.3
  configuration: --prefix=/usr --mandir=/usr/man --disable-debug 
--enable-shared --disable-static --enable-postproc --enable-avfilter 
--enable-pthreads --enable-libtheora --enable-libvorbis --enable-x11grab 
--enable-libmp3lame --enable-libx264 --enable-libschroedinger 
--enable-libfaac --enable-libfaad --enable-libopencore-amrnb 
--enable-libopencore-amrwb --enable-version3 --enable-libgsm 
--enable-libspeex --enable-zlib --enable-nonfree --enable-gpl
  libavutil     50. 3. 0 / 50. 3. 0
  libavcodec    52.36. 0 / 52.36. 0
  libavformat   52.39. 0 / 52.39. 0
  libavdevice   52. 2. 0 / 52. 2. 0
  libavfilter    0. 5. 0 /  0. 5. 0
  libswscale     0. 7. 1 /  0. 7. 1
  libpostproc   51. 2. 0 / 51. 2. 0
Input #0, ogg, from 'Beethoven_Quartet_05.ogg':
  Duration: 00:25:02.06, start: 0.000000, bitrate: 183 kb/s
    Stream #0.0: Audio: vorbis, 44100 Hz, 2 channels, s16, 192 kb/s
  Metadata
    TITLE           : String Quartet in A major, op. 18 no. 5
    ARTIST          : Amadeus String Quartet
    ALBUM           : The Beethoven String Quartets
[B][COLOR="Red"]Output #0, flv, to 'test.flv':
    Stream #0.0: Audio: libmp3lame, 44100 Hz, 2 channels, s16, 128 kb/s[/COLOR][/B]
Stream mapping:
  Stream #0.0 -> #0.0
Press [q] to stop encoding
size=   24370kB time=1502.14 bitrate= 132.9kbits/s    
video:0kB audio:23471kB global headers:0kB muxing overhead 3.828941%

```

And of course an ogg container can also contain video, not just vorbis sound, and perhaps this is what the original poster is actually referring to?

All the best,

Andrew

---

### Post by stoppage on 2009-10-01
I'm referring to the .ogg format that "record my desktop" creates, holder for video and audio. Avidemux won't open it. FFmpeg...
ffmpeg -i out2.ogg -b 128 -ar 11025 -s 400x240 -pass 1 -passlogfile log-file output.flv
renders almost unreadable output. Avi output from ffmpeg also isn't very good quality.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-10-01
Hi stoppage,

> **stoppage said:**
> I'm referring to the .ogg format that "record my desktop" creates, holder for video and audio. Avidemux won't open it. FFmpeg...

```
ffmpeg -i out2.ogg -b 128 -ar 11025 -s 400x240 -pass 1 -passlogfile log-file output.flv
```

renders almost unreadable output. Avi output from ffmpeg also isn't very good quality.

It all becomes clear :). So you have theora video and vorbis sound in an ogg container. There are a couple of small things that might help here which I might suggest you try before any suggestions can be made *accurately* concerning FFmpeg conversion. Firstly have a look here:

HOWTO: Easily enable MP3, MPEG4, AAC, and other restricted encoding in FFmpeg
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1117283](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1117283)

and beef-up your copy of FFmpeg a little. Then could you run the following and post the full terminal output here:

```
ffmpeg -i out2.ogg
```

This will give a more certain idea about what the file is made up of. And can I ask why the choice of the flv container? There are other containers such as mkv and mp4 that are much more flexible.

All the best,

Andrew

---

### Post by HarrisonNapper on 2009-10-01
Are you sure it didn't record in .ovg? That's usually the format for videos...

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2009-10-01
This nautilus script may be all you need:
[_[COLOR="DarkRed"]Ogv to Flv Converter[/COLOR]_]("http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Ogv+to+Flv+Converter?content=90837")
.ogv files are what I get from recordmydesktop.
No idea what it's like because the download isn't working for me at the moment.
There's a note there about using on intrepid.Don't know how it will work on Hardy.

---

### Post by stoppage on 2009-10-01
s:~$ ffmpeg -i out2.ogg

FFmpeg version SVN-rUNKNOWN, Copyright (c) 2000-2007 Fabrice Bellard, et al.

  configuration: --enable-gpl --enable-pp --enable-swscaler --enable-pthreads --enable-libvorbis --enable-libtheora --enable-libogg --enable-libgsm --enable-dc1394 --disable-debug --enable-libmp3lame --enable-libfaadbin --enable-libfaad --enable-libfaac --enable-xvid --enable-x264 --enable-liba52 --enable-amr_nb --enable-amr_wb --enable-shared --prefix=/usr

  libavutil version: 1d.49.3.0

  libavcodec version: 1d.51.38.0

  libavformat version: 1d.51.10.0

  built on Mar 17 2009 21:37:49, gcc: 4.2.4 (Ubuntu 4.2.4-1ubuntu3)

[theora @ 0xb7ec89a8]Theora bitstream version 30201

[theora @ 0xb7ec89a8]544 bits left in packet 81

[theora @ 0xb7ec89a8]7 bits left in packet 82

Input #0, ogg, from 'out2.ogg':

  Duration: 00:00:58.9, start: 0.066667, bitrate: 1051 kb/s

  Stream #0.0: Video: theora, yuv420p, 1440x896, 15.00 fps(r)

  Stream #0.1: Audio: vorbis, 48000 Hz, stereo, 499 kb/s

Must supply at least one output file



Why the flv container? I need to be able to host this online (not youtube)

---

### Post by FakeOutdoorsman on 2009-10-01
> **stoppage said:**
> Why the flv container? I need to be able to host this online (not youtube)

In the following thread I give examples of converting video suitable for playing on the web with something like JW Player or Flowplayer:

[Re: Converting AVI to FLV lossless?](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1249838)

Update:  I see your FFmpeg is too old to use the libx264 presets that I used in my FFmpeg example.  I recommend compiling FFmpeg and x264 to get the presets.  It's worth it and not too hard to do:
[url=http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=786095]
HOWTO: Install and use the latest FFmpeg and x264[/url]

---

