---
title: "9.04 Dual monitor/wallpaper issues"
date: 2009-05-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Andy06 on 2009-05-25
Hi, I was trying to configure some external displays with 9.04 laptops.

1)There seems to be no easy button to configure one of the monitors as your primary one like in windows. It seems to select at random which one is primary and then load the panels, icons and screenlets on that one. Am I missing something?

2)Also, it insists on stretching the wallpaper (all of the other options like zoom, tile, center, scaled still treat it as one big monitor), once again is there some way to make it behave like windows where it recognises that the other display is distinct (and merely extended) and hence render the wallpaper separately.

3)I thought 9.04 was going to have support for different wallpapers on different workspaces, has it been implemented?
Can workspaces have different wallpapers, and can different monitors have different wallpapers?

4)How many monitors can I possibly connect to a laptop with a serial output and HDMI output? Can I have 3 monitors (including the laptops own display), coz the video card seems to be limiting me to just one external. Say I get another card, could both the ports be used and also the expansion slots for yet another one?:D

Thank you very much

---

### Post by Andy06 on 2009-05-26
Everyone uses dual monitors right? So share your secrets. :wink:

Can't make do with one anymore.

---

### Post by Andy06 on 2009-05-28
Come on now people. Once you go dual, you can never go back, my life is a mess. I cannot eat or sleep properly till I have more than one monitor staring back at me. My awesome social and night life has taken a hit :biggrin:
*
Help me go plural again O Lords of Linux.

Basically, what I am trying to say is: *bump*

---

### Post by dbvaio on 2009-05-28
Multiple monitors make life great! Just for the love of Linus don't touch the xorg.conf file. screwed me over pretty well. I'm pretty sure there are some other options other than the default display settings that will probably be more ... well ... better. Not sure what but chances are that if you need something done, there are at least 3 applications readily available that do it. Good luck.

---

### Post by mickey57 on 2009-05-28
[SIZE="3"][COLOR="DarkRed"]sudo nvidia-settings.
.....
...X-server Display Congfig.You  will see a position choice for which screen is absolute.
.....Twinview when you configure,not separate X screens
..Hit save and it will boot with both screens
.....Your setting will only save when nvidia-settings is run from the terminal[/COLOR][/SIZE]

[IMG][IMG]http://i146.photobucket.com/albums/r244/mickey57photos/Screenshot-2.png[/IMG][/IMG]

---

### Post by Andy06 on 2009-05-29
Ah so it has to be run in root mode.

When you say "absolute", I'm assuming that means it will become the default and fixed monitor and the others will be positioned with reference to it.

Is there an easier, non terminal way or another downloadable app that does this for you.

I know you may think "but terminal is simpler", but unfortunately I will be telling other fellow noobs how to do this and whilst terminal might in fact be easier, using a GUI commits things to memory which means we don't have to come back and ask again.

Thank you very much.

---

### Post by mickey57 on 2009-05-29
[COLOR="DarkRed"][SIZE="3"]Look up top left.Applications/Then a list will drop down,hit terminal.
....paste this in,  sudo nvidia-settings  .Then put your password in and you are there.
....When you finish with the config.Right click on desktop,hit change background,look down for style and put it to tile.That will take care of  your desktop spanning across both monitors.
....You have to do it to learn it[/SIZE][/COLOR]

---

### Post by trivialpackets on 2009-05-29
I'm not near my box, but you could also save the following to a file on your desktop, make it executable and then double click.

```

#!/bin/bash
sudo nvidia-settings

```

Again though, making it executable requires you to go to terminal.  The other is probably easier, but you can open terminal and change it by doing the following
```

sudo chmod +x FILENAME

``` 
where FILENAME is whatever you called the first file.  Then email that around to all of your "noob" friends.  My advice though...embrace the command line and have your noob friends do it too.  The command line is powerful and not to be feared.

---

### Post by Andy06 on 2009-05-29
Tiling still doesn't give properly sized wallpapers. It makes one wallpaper the normal native size (whatever that pics resolution is) and starts the other one. So there is always some spillover.

Can different monitors have different wallpapers? Can different workspaces have different wallpapers?

---

### Post by werdna5225 on 2009-06-03
Unfortunately I don't have an intel card.  I have a laptop with an Intel GM965 integrated graphics controller.  IS there any way I can fix the wallpaper issues?  Would it also be possible to set a different workspace for each monitor?

---

### Post by franklinno1 on 2009-07-09
Help help. I have an INTEL GM965 graphic card on a thinkpad x61. I have the same problem - the wallpaper and the panel doesn't stretch to the other desktop. has anyone filed a but report?:confused:

---

### Post by franklinno1 on 2009-07-21
I found a solution. Apparently disable desktop effect will solve the problem :D Don't know anyone has seen similar effect.

---

### Post by Andy06 on 2009-07-21
So Metacity can handle it but not Compiz? Can you confirm that with Compiz fusion icon? Because you can use compiz as your WM even with effects off and Metacity now offers compositing.

---

