---
title: "8.04 Fstab entries for windows shares CIFS/SMBFS"
date: 2009-02-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jayramona on 2009-02-01
Hello, I am stumped on making entries on fstab.  I simply need to mount several Windows shares that are shared on an XP machine.  I had decided to try using CIFS.  I need read and write permissions for the shares.

I am following the Ubuntu doc on the subject:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountWindowsSharesPermanently](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountWindowsSharesPermanently)

I followed the directions up to: > Editing fstab
I am having trouble telling which entries are if you are using SMBFS or CIFS

This is the first hurdle:

> Add a line at the bottom of your /etc/fstab file that specifies:

//$SERVER/$SHARE $MOUNTPOINT $FS_TYPE credentials=$SMB_CREDENTIALS,uid=$UID,gid=$GID

# e.g.
SERVER=apollo
SHARE=install_files
MOUNTPOINT=/path/to/mnt
FS_TYPE=smbfs
SMB_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/.smbcredentials
UID=1000
GID=1000 

Does this mean put the //$SERVER/$SHARE.... Line AND the following code starting with #e.g....in fstab?

I have trouble understanding the instructions that follow this section too.

A simple example allowing me to mount multiple shares using CIFS would be very helpful

Thank you

---

### Post by Paqman on 2009-02-01
> **jayramona said:**
> 
Does this mean put the //$SERVER/$SHARE.... Line AND the following code starting with #e.g....in fstab?


Nope, just put the //$SERVER... line in. If you look at fstab you'll see that each line specified one device, it's mount point and a bunch of options. 

Obviously you want to change the //$SERVER... to your actual details. The section following that you said you found confusing just shows various different examples of a line added to fstab that would do different things.

---

### Post by jayramona on 2009-02-04
Thank you, I'll give that a try.  As obvious as it might be in the fstab file, I've done things to fstab before that worked, but probably should be illegal in most places.  I want it to be 'right'.  I'm using the Ubuntu machines much more seriously now and don't want to have to start over due to configuration problems that I'll never figure out.

Am I supposed to report that this is 'solved', or just let the thread die?

FWIW 8.10 64 bit Ubuntu works better, and took less time to configure on this laptop than a forced XP upgrade from Vista.  Getting the share thing worked out takes me one step closer to getting everything moved over to Ubuntu.

---

### Post by jayramona on 2009-02-07
Ok, I was able to mount to a share on my XP box.

There are a couple of questions that remain:

Is the line from my new fstab entry correct (below)?  It needs to have full permissions (read, write, modify folders and files).  I want to know if it is really correct, not just that it will work.

```
//server/jay /mnt/jay cifs  iocharset=utf8,credentials=/home/jay/.smbcredentials,gid=1000 0 0
```

What is 

> iocharset=utf8,

Some of the examples have it, some don't.

Thanks again, glad to be getting somewhere.

Jayramona

---

### Post by Paqman on 2009-02-11
> **jayramona said:**
> 

What is 

> 
iocharset=utf8,
 


Utf-8 is just one form of character encoding. You probably won't need it unless you're using an alphabet other than the standard Roman characters in your file names. It won't do any harm to leave it in though.

---

