---
title: "9.10 is Unusably Slow"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by AlHounos on 2009-11-01
Total noob to linux - heard all of the fuss about 9.10, so I thought I'd try it.


I've installed 9.10 on my Acer Extensa 5420 (AMD Turion 64 X2), but it's so slow I have to wait a few seconds for the cursor to catch up with my mouse inputs.  firefox launches and loads pages slowly, even the menus are slow to open.  I checked TOP and it says nothing is hogging the processor, but at the same time system monitor will say one or both of the cpu cores is at or near 100%, even with no programs running.

---

### Post by happyisland on 2009-11-01
That's weird. I'm using a vaio laptop that came with Vista (and was unbearably slow). I installed 9.04 on it a few months back and the performance increase was jaw-dropping. Now, with the new 9.10 the thing is working slightly better. I'm not an expert in this stuff, but I'll wager that one is going to come along who can fix your problem and get your computer working well again.

---

### Post by BbUiDgZ on 2009-11-01
> **AlHounos said:**
> Total noob to linux - heard all of the fuss about 9.10, so I thought I'd try it.


I've installed 9.10 on my Acer Extensa 5420 (AMD Turion 64 X2), but it's so slow I have to wait a few seconds for the cursor to catch up with my mouse inputs.  firefox launches and loads pages slowly, even the menus are slow to open.  I checked TOP and it says nothing is hogging the processor, but at the same time system monitor will say one or both of the cpu cores is at or near 100%, even with no programs running.
in console can you type:
```
ps -A
```
and then
```
df -h
```
and paste the output here?

---

### Post by jamoncillo on 2009-11-01
Same thing happening to me! I was working great on 9.01 and decided to upgrade to 9.10. Firefox laggs, apps crash from time to time and:

a) lost my sound (thought it was working great on 9.01)
b) my mouse touchpad ain't working

Even googling is a pain in the ***, since the laptop is so slow. I have a Vaio vgn-cr309e


any help or comments would be appreciated, thanks

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-11-01
turn off compiz as soon as you've got the screen up after login...hopefully before the slow-down begins

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308317](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308317)


it should also be noted that previous versions of ubuntu suffered from the compiz blues as well

search=compiz problems

as always, your mileage may vary, buyer beware, and buyer be aware

.

---

### Post by jamoncillo on 2009-11-01
nope, it ain't compiz since the system behaves 'well' (I mean, beside the sound and touchpad problems) it is only when opening any app

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2009-11-01
HI AlHounos

Did you install the video driver for your -ATi Mobility Radeon HD 2400 XT- card. Look in -System > Administration > Hardware Drivers-

---

### Post by AlHounos on 2009-11-04
Disabling compiz did the trick!  thanks a bunch!

---

### Post by x C0MMAND0 x on 2009-11-04
If you're comfortable with terminal, you can use

```
top
```

That will list system processes so you can see what's taking up the most.

---

