---
title: "9.10 wireless connection problem"
date: 2010-01-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mfaraday on 2010-01-11
Hello, 

So I just installed 9.10 and I am having trouble connecting to my wireless internet. Everything appears to be working fine, except that the dropdown menu for the internet connection doesn't show any network options. It does however, prompt me to create a wireless connection or add a hidden connection, neither of which seem to get me online.

Much obliged if anyone can point me in the right direction to getting online. 

Thanks

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-01-11
Go to System> Admin.> Hardware Drivers and activate the recommended wireless driver if there is one listed.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2010-01-11
You may have to hook up the hard line to do the updates, then try again. That is what I had to do with my wife's lappy the other day. After the updates, all was well.

---

### Post by LuisGMarine on 2010-01-11
Also in case you can see your networks but Ubuntu fails to make the connection to your wireless network set your laptop in a static IP.  I've had this trouble all the time with Ubuntu for some reason.

---

### Post by mfaraday on 2010-01-11
So I think I've found my problem, thank you warfacegod, there is nothing in the hardware drivers file. 

thanks,

---

### Post by shaunfrazier on 2010-01-11
I have wireless and hard line on my laptop when I installed 9.10 the wireless was on one minute them it went off and did not come back on until  I unplugged the hard line and restarted the computer.. Be-live it or not haven't had the problem since!

---

