---
title: "[9.04] ext4 data loss - how to avoid that ?"
date: 2009-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by oponto on 2009-05-11
as most computer users, I have epically important data.

heard about that problem, and is it true that the file looks still properly indexed, as if it existed, but if I try to play the movie-whatever- there are missing parts/ missing all ?

so I would overwrite my backup with ****-**data ?

damn it, I should have selected ext4 !

so how do I find out if I have still all my data to make backup and reinstall with ext3 ?

google/forum search couldnt tell me -.-

thanks

---

### Post by lvleph on 2009-05-11
The only problem with ext4 loss of data is when something goes wrong before it is actually written to the drive. Ext4 doesn't write to the drive imediately this alows less writing to the filesystem which in turn makes things faster. The missing parts could have occurred for various reasons, most of which have nothing to do with ext4.

The only way I know to check if you data is all still there is to check it against another copy (using diff), but if you had another copy you wouldn't need to backup now would you?

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-05-11
Could you please be more specific? Are you talking about an entire partition, your entire home directory, just some video files, all your video files or what?

I'm trying to understand your post but it isn't very clear.

> **oponto said:**
> so I would overwrite my backup with ****-**data ?

What do you mean by that?

> **oponto said:**
> damn it, I should have selected ext4 !

Do you mean ext3?

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2009-05-11
What you can do to prevent data loss is to use a newer better version of Ext4. You can get that in later kernels like 2.6.29 and all the upcoming kernels.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-05-11
I haven't experienced any data loss as a result of ext4

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-05-11
> **theozzlives said:**
> I haven't experienced any data loss as a result of ext4

Me neither, even after a power failure.

---

