---
title: "8.04 on PC transfer to external HD???"
date: 2009-03-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Pappy1911 on 2009-03-12
I currently run 8.04 on my desktop PC. No Windows.

I am at 93% usage on it. Free space is at 4.8GB.
Update notifications are eating up free space and soon something has to be done.

Can I transfer the whole works over to my 1TB external LaCie???

Most personal files are already there so I can't trim any more. Or can I??

Questions;

How to transfer?
How to compress current HD?
Is there a 'remove fat' program?

Thanks all.

---

### Post by gackt on 2009-03-13
I dont understand your problem. Simply plug in and start copying.

---

### Post by Pappy1911 on 2009-03-13
> **gackt said:**
> I dont understand your problem. Simply plug in and start copying.

Thanks for your reply.

One question at a time.

How can I obtain more space on my current HD?
All files are now on external HD.
PC is 100% Ubuntu and filling up to max with the updates..

????

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2009-03-13
If your disk is so full, there's probably not much you can do.

To see some things that may clear up some space, have a look at this post:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6586270#post6586270](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6586270#post6586270)

---

### Post by Pappy1911 on 2009-03-13
Thanks Paddy...I'll check it out..

---

### Post by gackt on 2009-03-19
Well simply delete them. I was running full at  80gig and after 3 hours of sorting, i manage to remove about 25gigs. We might think all of our files are important but it's not..really. Try to zip the file.

---

### Post by miegiel on 2009-03-19
> **Pappy1911 said:**
> I am at 93% usage on it. Free space is at 4.8GB.
Update notifications are eating up free space and soon something has to be done.

If you're using about 70GB now (14x5GB) my guess the *fat* is in your home directory. Normally linux doesn't need more then 10GB space.

Use Applications > Accessories > Disk Usage Analyser to find any **fat** on your disk :)

---

### Post by Pappy1911 on 2009-03-19
I've gone through and deleted a lot of stuff.

Currently holding at 4.9 Gb free space, which is an improvement of 4.8Gb.   Whoopie!

---

