---
title: "[SOLVED] Mouse not responding??"
date: 2008-11-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by faraz_k86 on 2008-11-08
MY mouse is not responding in Ubuntu. I have dual boot setup, so when i booted up Windows the mouse was working fine there. BUt when I start Ubuntu, it does not work. Its acting as if I havent even connected the device??

Any Help??

And isnt there a way to control the mouse with keyboard as in windows?

---

### Post by stephanvaningen on 2008-11-08
Do you have more than 1 USB-connection area on your PC (front-side, back-side)? Does the mouse responds in the same way (not) on both sides?

Is the mouse connected directly or via a usb-hub?

Is it a 'standard' mouse or a specific brand/model?

---

### Post by faraz_k86 on 2008-11-08
I have 4 usb ports, 2 at back, 2 at front. But the mouse is not USB its PS/2.

Its a standard PS/2 Mouse

---

### Post by stephanvaningen on 2008-11-08
Was the mouse attached before you switched on the computer? *(Some computers/motherboards have/had problems with PS/2 devices by not detecting them if you detach/attach them while the computer is switched on - other computers even just freezed after doing that, but that was long ago)*

---

### Post by faraz_k86 on 2008-11-08
yup i tried that also. I connected the mouse while the computer was turned off, and then turned it on.

and then tried it when the pc was on.

none of it worked.




I also have another USB mouse, I disconnected this PS/2 mouse and connected the USB one but even that is not working

---

### Post by Bheklilr on 2008-11-08
I've had problems with my mouse, too.

After upgrading to Ubuntu 8.10, I discovered that my Dell PS/2 mouse no longer is recognized.  It is not a problem with the PS/2 ports, because my keyboard still works, and when I boot into Windows XP, it works fine.  USB mice still work under Ubuntu, but I am very attached to my PS/2 mouse, especially since it is an old ball mouse.  The USB optical mouse I have been using is no where near as smooth, and I would love to have my PS/2 mouse back.  I have an NVidia 6800 and have the latest drivers.

---

### Post by faraz_k86 on 2008-11-09
But i did not do any form of upgrade... I just turned it on and it was not responding. The keyboard, which is also PS/2 is working though.


Recently I installed a PCI TV card, Ubuntu did not recognize it. Can that be the problem??

The TV card works fine on Windows

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-11-09
well the TV card not working I can understand but the mouse?
strange
Is it from any brand or anything?
I know it should not matter but I know of a few brands that suck no matter what OS it is on.

---

### Post by faraz_k86 on 2008-11-09
no its a tower brand. I dont think any one of you have even heard it before.

The mouse was working fine yesterday and now its not.. like i said before i did not upgrade or anything.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-11-09
Ah its one of those no name ones then, I am not surprised about its fluctuation.
I hate those el cheapo brands, even on windows where you know its supposed to work thanks to Microsofts monopoly I had issues like this with some mouse makers.

---

### Post by faraz_k86 on 2008-11-09
na man tower is very popular here in the local market and I have been using tower accessories for 4 years now and am very satisfied.

People here actualy prefer tower products oevr A4Tech and creative.

Im pretty sure the mouse is not at fault.

Did i mention, along with windows, **its working fine in Puppy Linux.**

---

### Post by TobiasLindberg on 2008-11-09
I don't think its due to the brand of the mouse, because i've got that very problem with logitech PS/2 mouse and kbd...
I have not tested with USB mouse yet, but in Windows my mouse works just fine!

---

### Post by faraz_k86 on 2008-11-10
so does any one have a solution as to why this is happening?

---

### Post by lisati on 2008-11-10
It sounds a bit like one of those "Keyboard not detected. Press F1 to continue" mysteries.

---

### Post by stephanvaningen on 2008-11-10
Can you post the result of this command in gnome-terminal:
 ```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf | grep "InputDevice" -A 7
```

---

### Post by TobiasLindberg on 2008-11-10
Finds nothing...
This is complete file:
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by stephanvaningen on 2008-11-10
> **TobiasLindberg said:**
> Finds nothing...
This is complete file:
```
# xorg.conf ...
...EndSection
```
In that case, what about trying to add these sections to your file (using this command):
 sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
section(s) to add ([source]("http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-newbie-8/problems-with-mouse-in-gnome-debian-518330/")):
```
Section "InputDevice"
Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
Driver        "mouse"
Option        "CorePointer"
Option        "Device"          "/dev/psaux"
Option        "Protocol"        "PS/2"
Option        "Emulate3buttons" "true"
Option        "ZAxismapping"    "4 5"
EndSection

Section       "InputDevice"
Identifier    "Generic Mouse"
Driver        "mouse"
Option        "CorePointer"
Option        "Device"          "/dev/input/mice"
Option        "Protocol"        "ImPS/2"
Option        "Emulate3buttons" "true"
Option        "ZAxismapping"    "4 5"
EndSection

``` 

Does that provide you any result?

---

### Post by stephanvaningen on 2008-11-10
FYI, I have this in mine (put in automatically I assume, I'm using any generic usb mouse):
 ```
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by TobiasLindberg on 2008-11-11
My problem is solved. Embarrassing, but it was just to remove the lilac plug that changes USB to PS/2 to get it to work excellent...

---

### Post by stephanvaningen on 2008-11-12
What about you faraz_k86? Have you tried adding the section(s) to the xorg.conf?

---

### Post by faraz_k86 on 2008-11-12
Well, i tried everything but could not get to the terminal, I just could not open up the applications menu with my keyboard. What is the shortcut for that anyway??

So i just formatted and reinstalled, works fine now :)

---

### Post by stephanvaningen on 2008-11-12
Could it be that your mouse was not connected during installation maybe?

Anyway: if your issue is not applicable anymore, could you mark this thread as solved pls? thanks! (right-top, thread-tools, 'mark this thread as solved')

---

