---
title: "10.10 - make a running system on USB flash drive?"
date: 2010-12-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wep940 on 2010-12-13
Newbie here - is it possible to create a running system purely on a USB flash drive?  I tried installing and selecting just my flash drive, and it looks like install ran, but it won't boot even with the USB device in the top of the boot list in the BIOS.
 
It probably sounds like an odd request, but I want to get my wireless working to try out Ubuntu more, and I can't do that on the LiveCD because it wouldn't carry over from 1 boot to the next.
 
Thank you for any help you might be able to provide.

---

### Post by Supergoo on 2010-12-13
How did you install it on the usb ? There is a utility in ubnutu that will make a bootable usb drive, I think its called USB Creator or something along those lines, once I get home I will post the exact name for you. It is dead simple to use.

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2010-12-13
It may help you,

**[http://tinyurl.com/2df4o5s](http://tinyurl.com/2df4o5s)**

---

### Post by Supergoo on 2010-12-13
Here is the link that will tell you how to make it work.

[http://www.pendrivelinux.com/creating-an-xubuntu-live-usb-from-cd/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/creating-an-xubuntu-live-usb-from-cd/)

Hope that helps

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2010-12-13
If you want a system on flash drive that works exactly like a system on internal HDD, (but a little slower), try this:

Turn off and unplug the computer. (See note at bottom)
Remove the side from the case.
Unplug the power cable from the hard drive.
Plug the computer back in.
Insert the flash drive.
Insert the Live CD.
Start the computer, the CD should boot.
Select language
Select install Ubuntu.
Select Download updates while installing and Select Install this third-party software.
Forward
At "Allocate drive space" select "Specify partitions manually (advanced)".
Forward
Confirm Device is correct.
(Optional partition for use on Windows machine)
Select "New Partition Table" click Continue on the drop down.
Click "Free space" and "Add".
Select "Primary".
Make "New partition size..." about 4GB.
Location = Beginning.
"Use as:" = "FAT32 file system"
And "Mount point" = windows.
Select "OK"
Click "free space" and then "Add".
Select "Primary", "New partition size ..." = 4 to 6 GB, Beginning, Ext4, and Mount point = "/" then OK.
(Optional home partition)
Click "free space" and then "Add".
Select "Primary", "New partition size ..." = 4 to 8 GB, Beginning, Ext2, and Mount point = "/home" then OK.
(Optional swap space, allows hybernation)
Click "free space" and then "Add".
Select "Primary", "New partition size ..." = remaining space, (1 to 2 GB, same size as RAM), Beginning and "Use as" = "swap area" then OK.
(Important)
Confirm "Device for boot loader installation" points to the USB drive. Default should be ok if HDD was unplugged.
Click "Install Now".
Select your location.
Forward.
Select Keyboard layout.
Forward.
Insert your name, username, password, computer name and select if you want to log in automatically or require a password.
Selecting "Encrypt my home folder" is a good option if you are worried about loosing your USB drive.
Select forward.
Wait until install is complete.
Turn off computer and plug in the HDD.
Stick the side panel back on.

Note:
You may omit disabling the hard drive if after partitioning you choose to install grub to the root of the usb drive you are installing Ubuntu to, (ie sdb not sdb1). Be cautious, many people have overwritten the HDD MBR.
At boot you will then be given the option to boot your computer's hard drive, even when booting another computer.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2010-12-13
I did the partition/format flash drive and installed directly to the USB flash, and told it to put grub on the USB flash drive.  I would have expected it to at least boot, but it didn't, and that's when I posted here.  I thought the tools like unetbootlin where for making the equivalent of a livecd on a flash drive - I want to make a running system.  I'll take a look at the earlier 2 posts and check the links there.

---

### Post by mikechant on 2010-12-13
I've had some issues booting from USB sticks - different BIOSs and different makes of USB stick give different results for me.
In particular, my main desktop PC won't boot from Kingston Datatraveler USB sticks formated as hard drives (i.e. with partition table), but formatting them as 'superfloppies' (no partition table) does work. You can format a USB stick as a superfloppy either by using windows or by using the Linux command line commands:
```
sudo umount /dev/sdx
sudo mkdosfs -I /dev/sdx
```
where sdx is the relevant USB drive (be **very** careful here because if you specified one of your hard drives such as sda you could trash it).
One you've formatted it this way, you should be able to use the standard Ubuntu USB writing tool** to create a persistent USB - works like a live CD but also stores any changes back to the USB stick.

** Note that at present I've only tried using the alternate USB writing tool called unetbootin on the superfloppy USB sticks; but I'm pretty confident this shouldn't matter.

Also note that this method is *not* guaranteed to give you a bootable USB stick due to BIOS and USB stick differences, but it's worth a try.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2010-12-13
> **mikechant said:**
> I've had some issues booting from USB sticks - different BIOSs and different makes of USB stick give different results for me.
In particular, my main desktop PC won't boot from Kingston Datatraveler USB sticks formated as hard drives (i.e. with partition table), but formatting them as 'superfloppies' (no partition table) does work. You can format a USB stick as a superfloppy either by using windows or by using the Linux command line commands:
```
sudo umount /dev/sdx
sudo mkdosfs -I /dev/sdx
```
where sdx is the relevant USB drive (be **very** careful here because if you specified one of your hard drives such as sda you could trash it).
One you've formatted it this way, you should be able to use the standard Ubuntu USB writing tool** to create a persistent USB - works like a live CD but also stores any changes back to the USB stick.
 
** Note that at present I've only tried using the alternate USB writing tool called unetbootin on the superfloppy USB sticks; but I'm pretty confident this shouldn't matter.
 
Also note that this method is *not* guaranteed to give you a bootable USB stick due to BIOS and USB stick differences, but it's worth a try.
 
 
Thanks!  I'll give that a try tonight when I'm home - sounds a little more plausible.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-12-13
With the Flash drive installed, run this script and we can see if it installed grub to the flash drive's MBR.

Boot Info Script courtesy of forum member meierfra
Page with instructions and download:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
Paste results.txt, then highlight entire file and click on # in edit panel(code tags) to make it easier to read.
Or You can generate the tags first by pressing the # icon in the post's menu and then paste the contents between the generated [ code] paste here [ /code] tags.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2010-12-13
> **oldfred said:**
> With the Flash drive installed, run this script and we can see if it installed grub to the flash drive's MBR.
 
Boot Info Script courtesy of forum member meierfra
Page with instructions and download:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
Paste results.txt, then highlight entire file and click on # in edit panel(code tags) to make it easier to read.
Or You can generate the tags first by pressing the # icon in the post's menu and then paste the contents between the generated [ code] paste here [ /code] tags.
 
I'll have to try this tonight as well.  I assume I can be running off the LiveCD when I do this, since I would need to download the script 1st in Windows, then boot the LiveCD and run the script.
 
Thanks!

---

### Post by j388m on 2010-12-13
I was struggling with a bootable USB Ubuntu.  This link helped me: [http://mintarticles.com/read/operating-systems-articles/how-to-install-portable-linux-ubuntu-on-a-bootable-usb-flash-drive-from-sun-virtualbox,13641/](http://mintarticles.com/read/operating-systems-articles/how-to-install-portable-linux-ubuntu-on-a-bootable-usb-flash-drive-from-sun-virtualbox,13641/)

Hope it helps =)

---

### Post by I2k4 on 2010-12-13
I'm running 10.04 LTE Desktop on my little netbook very well.  (I had bad experiences with a couple of versions other than Desktop  which seems to be the "core" version - others then do other things to it,  and some of the tweaks don't improve it.)

I found the instructions on the ubuntu site pretty foolproof:  select USB at Step 2, and follow the "Show me how" instructions closely.  Basically, you need the Universal installer and .ISO file for whichever version you want - you already know you need to set BIOS to select USB ahead of the HDD. 

[http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/download)

Download the installer and .ISO into a single directory, run the installer. 

BUT the important thing if you want to run from USB alone is that when setting the installer be sure to go beyond the Ubuntu instructions above and choose "Persistence" - then set the maximum for the USB Drive you are using - "Persistence" is required to save various settings from boot to boot if you are sticking with the USB instead of just using the USB as a bridge to hard drive installation.  

I'm getting very good results with a 4GB thumb drive on my netbook by setting 3GB of "Persistence".  (I tried a 2GB drive with only 1GB Persistence and had problems.)  It's an enjoyable and interesting alternative to XP.  The two things I've done to improve on the USB's slowness and size limit is to use FireFox tweaks to prevent disk caching, and to locate my DropBox directory on the HDD instead of on the USB.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-12-13
To run the boot script, just boot the liveCD and download it from the liveCD. Then you can directly run it from where ever it has saved it. Usually Downloads, now. It used to save to Desktop, so instructions may show example for running from Desktop.

---

