---
title: "New 12.10 install - Completely blank desktop"
date: 2012-11-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by djm227 on 2012-11-25
I'm trying to install 12.10 on a box that is maybe 5-6 years old.

I began with the Ubuntu Live USB, and Unity and everything else worked great at first.  Not sure what happened then, but I got the error:
```
The application compiz has closed unexpectedly
```
After that Unity would not appear.  I installed Ubuntu along side Windows (corrupted, I can't boot to Windows), thinking that the issue would disappear after installation. Long story short, I haven't had any luck getting my desktop back. I did searches, tried commands, re-installed Ubuntu from a fresh ISO, and everything else that I could find.  

I'm also having a hard time getting it connected to my wireless through the terminal, so I may move it into the other room and connect it directly if needed.

The computer is an older dell, and as such I'm not sure what the specs are.  Here's what I do know:
[LIST]
[*]Intel Celeron D CPU
[*]512 MB RAM
[*]Integrated graphics
[/LIST]

Any help would be greatly appreciated.  Thanks!

Here are some of the things that I tried:

```
killall Xorg

```
```
DISPLAY=:0 unity --replace 

```
```
DISPLAY=:0 compiz --replace

```
```
setsid unity

```
```

setsid compiz --replace

```
```

sudo -s
setsid service lightdm restart

```

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-11-25
As far I can see you have 512 MB of RAM, which is the bare minimum. Alongside with the integrated graphics card, which further reduces the available RAM, I guess that Ubuntu with Unity will not run satisfactorily on the hardware. May I suggest that you try Xubuntu or Lubuntu instead? It shares the same base with Ubuntu, but the desktop environment is much lighter.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-11-25
Try the following to check support. ```
/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p
``` Unity 2D is available in the software center for 12.10  if you're interested, but with the amount ram the I agree with the suggestion above.

---

### Post by djm227 on 2012-11-25
Thanks guys.  The check support spits back:
```
Error: unable to open display
```

I'm downloading Lubuntu right now, I think that I'll give that a try instead.  Damn, I was looking forward to messing around with 12.10.  I haven't used Ubuntu since the switch to Unity.

I'll post back with the Lubuntu results.  I'm sure it'll work fine.

---

### Post by BlinkinCat on 2012-11-25
> **djm227 said:**
> Thanks guys.  The check support spits back:
```
Error: unable to open display
```I'm downloading Lubuntu right now, I think that I'll give that a try instead.  Damn, I was looking forward to messing around with 12.10.  I haven't used Ubuntu since the switch to Unity.

I'll post back with the Lubuntu results.  I'm sure it'll work fine.

Did you copy and paste that command into terminal ?
A straight copy can produce errors -

Cheers - :)

---

### Post by djm227 on 2012-11-25
> **BlinkinCat said:**
> Did you copy and paste that command into terminal ?
A straight copy can produce errors -

Cheers - :)

Nope, can't even access the internet on that computer. I'm giving up on Ubuntu, installing Lubuntu now.

---

