---
title: "Problem with Wubi, changes layout from UK to US when i reboot"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Luke08 on 2008-04-25
Can anyone help me.
I have recently installed Ubuntu with Wubi on my Dell Inspiron 1521 Vista Home Edition.  I have configured the layout to United Kingdom but when i restart it automatically changes back to US and the UK layout has been deleted...any help?
Thanks, Luke

---

### Post by pedro_orange on 2008-04-25
Are we talking about keyboard layout here?

I found this used to happen in Gutsy as well (Although I don't run Windows/Wubi so it may be something different)
 
I think what I did (if memory serves) is have the UK layout saved in my list - and select the American one. Save it. Close the window, re-open & change to the UK one, save it. And then reboot.

I have noticed issues on my housemates Wubi edition of Gutsy (ie. that it behaved slightly strange compared to a proper install)  - Have you tried installing it "properly" ? :)

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-04-25
have you tried changing it back to the uk keyboard layout? does it still keep going back to the us one?

post the contents of your xorg config file, it may not have copied your settings there. open up a terminal and type ```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

this will open the file with gedit, a text editor, and you can paste its contents into this thread for us to have a look at. it may be stating the keyboard / locale as 'us'

---

### Post by Luke08 on 2008-04-25
I have tried using the UK layout again and restarted and then restarted with the US keyboard again



# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection




Hope that helps, Thank you

---

