---
title: "Edit xorg.conf"
date: 2009-10-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by donescamillo on 2009-10-04
Hi,

Below is my xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"   
EndSection


Can someone please tell me where to add and what to add so that I force the display to work at 1024x768 and 75Hz refresh rate.
I looked similar topic in these forums and tried hard but it did not work (it was disastrous actually), 

Thank you,
donescamillo

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-10-04
Hi and you may look at the [X/Config/Resolution]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution")

---

### Post by donescamillo on 2009-10-05
Hi,

Thank you very much for your help. I looked the link and did some editing.
After editing my xorg.conf looked like this:

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"    
    DefaultDepth 24
    SubSection "Display"
    Depth 24
    Modes "1024x768_75.00"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


but it still did not work. Best result was when I removed the refresh rate from the Modes string, in that case the display run 1024x768 but at 60Hz.
Please note that the card and the monitor support 1024x768, they actually support 1280x800 @ 60Hz, but when I change down to 1024x768 after reset it goes back to 1280x800. And this happens only when I use xfce, with Gnome is OK.

regards,
donescamillo

---

