---
title: "8.04LTS and Kernel upgrades"
date: 2008-06-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rsw1965 on 2008-06-09
I am interested to know if there is a simple way of finding out when the 2.6.25 kernel will be released as part of the updating of ubuntu 8.04LTS

As far as I can see the kernel has moved from 2.6.24-16 through to 2.6.24-18 since the initial release of 8.04LTS.

I have the Acer 4315 and have to recompile the madwifi driver for the wireless card to work after each kernel release. There is also a package for acer_acpi which I understand is part of 2.6.25 (but has to be compiled and inserted via modprobe for earlier versions). I am just wondering how far away the release of 2.6.25 is in the 8.04LTS as I have not tried to compile the acer_acpi as yet.

Thanks for any assistance

Robert

---

### Post by Duck2006 on 2008-06-09
Don't know when 2.6.25 will be released, the last updata i recived was 2.6.24-19-generic.

---

### Post by Nepherte on 2008-06-09
Ubuntut 8.04 LTS will normally stick to variants of 2.6.24. Newer kernels only come into Ubuntu with another version release.

---

### Post by ukripper on 2008-06-09
> **rsw1965 said:**
> I am interested to know if there is a simple way of finding out when the 2.6.25 kernel will be released as part of the updating of ubuntu 8.04LTS

As far as I can see the kernel has moved from 2.6.24-16 through to 2.6.24-18 since the initial release of 8.04LTS.

I have the Acer 4315 and have to recompile the madwifi driver for the wireless card to work after each kernel release. There is also a package for acer_acpi which I understand is part of 2.6.25 (but has to be compiled and inserted via modprobe for earlier versions). I am just wondering how far away the release of 2.6.25 is in the 8.04LTS as I have not tried to compile the acer_acpi as yet.

Thanks for any assistance

Robert

If you cant wait then you can compile/install latest kernel easily using simple app here - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=618563](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=618563)

---

