---
title: "10.04 other versions?, and where is the taskbar?"
date: 2010-06-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Kharlo on 2010-06-05
Hi!
 
well... for while i have downloaded it form ubuntu
burned in a disc and installed with no problem...
but at first strt up, after a succesful login the screen its purple, the cursos its ok but there is no taskbar 
see te picture:
[IMG]http://img13.imageshack.us/img13/7681/xxxscreenshotbs.jpg[/IMG]
i was able to get thee by a doble click on desktop and create a floder so i could access to some menu, options and places, but there you can see the empty field where upper and lower taskbars should be...
what is wrong?

---

### Post by ron999 on 2010-06-05
> **Kharlo said:**
>  but i see some sites call it 10.04, 10.04LTS, others 10.04 lucid linx, is the same version?


They are all the same.
**10.04** says the release date was April 2010.
**LTS** means 'Long Term Support'. Version 10.04 will be supported for several years, no need to upgrade every 6 months.
**Lucid Lynx** is human-friendly name for version 10.04.

---

### Post by TriBlox6432 on 2010-06-05
reboot for the panels issue.  It worked for me.

If that doesn't do it, right click on the empty spaces of both, remove them, and place them again and put the icons on yourself.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-06-05
Also reset the panels with these two commands:

```

gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel
pkill gnome-panel

```

---

### Post by Kharlo on 2010-06-05
Wow, very fast response guys!
 
> **ron999 said:**
> They are all the same.
**10.04** says the release date was April 2010.
**LTS** means 'Long Term Support'. Version 10.04 will be supported for several years, no need to upgrade every 6 months.
**Lucid Lynx** is human-friendly name for version 10.04.
 
thanks!
 
> **TriBlox6432 said:**
> reboot for the panels issue. It worked for me.
 
If that doesn't do it, right click on the empty spaces of both, **remove them,** and place them again and put the icons on yourself.
Thanks for trying to help me but..
 
remove what? 
there is nothing if i do right click there, it's like doing right click on the desktop, then its menu; create a file, folder, laucher, background....
 
 
> **wojox said:**
> Also reset the panels with these two commands:
 
```

gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel
pkill gnome-panel

```
 
mmm...  yeah.. but...
where do i enter those commands?
terminal right?
how do i get the terminal? 
 
anyway i was able to get to terminal by a VERY strange steps (i remember, creating a laucher, and entering something wrong in command so in a flashy appeareance of the terminal windows i hit create a new windows then the original dissapeared in les than 2 seconds and the new one stayed so i tryed your commands
 
but did not work because i dont know too much about commands and i dot know the complete secuence of the commands you gave me..
 
i mean
you wrote
```

gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel
pkill gnome-panel

```
i dont knwo if i should write:
gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panelpkill gnome-panel
 
or
 
gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel**_[COLOR=red] /[/COLOR]_**pkill gnome-panel
 
or
 
gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel[COLOR=red]-[/COLOR]pkill gnome-panel
 
did not work...
 
 
help!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2010-06-05
They are two separate commands. Copy and paste one, hit return, paste in the other, hit return.

---

### Post by Phrea on 2010-06-05
> mmm... yeah.. but...
where do i enter those commands?
terminal right?
how do i get the terminal?

Alt-F2 gnome-terminal

---

### Post by Kharlo on 2010-06-06
Thanks
 
the commands worked.
 
then i restart to see if it its fixed
in the firt restart, was ok, both taskbars loaded, but i got this:
[IMG]http://img571.imageshack.us/img571/2043/cimg1759a.jpg[/IMG]
-i hit delete
-then i use the system for a few minutes, very nice btw, faster than 9.10 (but not faster than 9.04)
-i restarted the system and i got the problem again, i used the two commands to load the bars and it worked, but i restarted it again, and the same problem....
 
i dont know the cause of this problem, i reinstall the system again and still the same problem...
honestly this 10.04 its cute and kind of fast, but 9.04(with all its updates) used to be lot stable than all the others.. but i dont want to go back

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2010-06-06
And 8.04 is solid and a long term support release also. Latest is not always most reliable, but if you have the hours to figure out your problems, cool. You learn something along the way at least. ;)

---

### Post by Kharlo on 2010-06-06
8.04mmm... sounds good... should be the fastest, shouldn't?
even more in an old 1.13ghz 512mb ram machine?
 
but i agree with what you sais, i dont have too much time but seeing ho hast i get support in THIS forum, i culd try because i learn a lot, thats why id like to try to solve this lil problem

---

