---
title: "IPv6 conflict"
date: 2011-06-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by harvindercs on 2011-06-04
:(
i am having ubuntu 11.04 and my firefox is not opening yahoo sign in page(many other pages also) and yahoo says that i am having IPv6 conflict.. Anyone wants to helpppp??? :'(

---

### Post by Laforge129 on 2011-06-04
> **harvindercs said:**
> [SIZE=4][COLOR=DarkRed]:(
i am having ubuntu 11.04 and my firefox is not opening yahoo sign in page(many other pages also) and yahoo says that i am having IPv6 conflict.. Anyone wants to helpppp??? :'( 
[/COLOR][/SIZE]

You could try to change to Opendns and see if it is a DNS problem:
[How to setup OpenDNS on Ubuntu]("https://store.opendns.com/setup/device/ubuntu/")

I suspect it is a DNS problem right now and not a Linux Problem!

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2011-06-04
Try to disable ipv6 in Firefox. See [http://www.webgapps.org/tutorials/firefox/troubleshooting/connection-issues-and-solutions](http://www.webgapps.org/tutorials/firefox/troubleshooting/connection-issues-and-solutions)

---

### Post by harvindercs on 2011-06-05
did not work, still yahoo page keeps on loading.. loading loadiing & Loading

---

### Post by harvindercs on 2011-06-05
:confused: HEEEEEEEELPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-06-05
I don't have a Yahoo account , but have no problem loading the sign in page . Is it a login problem or is the sign in page not loading ? Take a look at your connection information from the network icon , mine displays IPV6 ignored .

---

### Post by harvindercs on 2011-06-05
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> I don't have a Yahoo account , but have no problem loading the sign in page . Is it a login problem or is the sign in page not loading ? Take a look at your connection information from the network icon , mine displays IPV6 ignored .


yeah mine is ignored too, but still i am not able to log in yahoo and many other websites wont open they just keep on loading 
:(

---

### Post by lemming465 on 2011-06-05
We don't really have enough information to distinguish between DNS problems, ISP problems, local network configuration problems, or whatever yet.

If you run *host [www.yahoo.com](www.yahoo.com)*, what results do you get?

If you get an IP address back from that, e.g.  69.147.125.65, and run something like *ping -c4 69.147.125.65*, what results do you get?

Could we please see the output from:```

ip address show
ip -4 route show
ip -6 route show
ip -6 neighbor show
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by harvindercs on 2011-06-06
yes i am posting the output one by one 
for ip address show
```
1: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 16436 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN 
    link/loopback 00:00:00:00:00:00 brd 00:00:00:00:00:00
    inet 127.0.0.1/8 scope host lo
2: eth0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc pfifo_fast state UP qlen 1000
    link/ether 00:23:ae:1e:f9:61 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
3: eth1: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST> mtu 1500 qdisc noop state DOWN qlen 1000
    link/ether 00:22:5f:73:b2:a7 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
11: ppp0: <POINTOPOINT,MULTICAST,NOARP,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1492 qdisc pfifo_fast state UNKNOWN qlen 3
    link/ppp 
    inet 117.205.36.109 peer 117.205.32.1/32 scope global ppp0

```for ip -4 route show
```

117.205.32.1 dev ppp0  proto kernel  scope link  src 117.205.36.109 
169.254.0.0/16 dev ppp0  scope link  metric 1000 
default via 117.205.32.1 dev ppp0  proto static

```for ip -6 route show
```

117.205.32.1 dev ppp0  proto kernel  scope link  src 117.205.36.109 
169.254.0.0/16 dev ppp0  scope link  metric 1000 
default via 117.205.32.1 dev ppp0  proto static

```for ip -6 neighbor 
No output is there :(

for cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

harry@harry-Inspiron-1545:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 218.248.255.196
nameserver 218.248.255.194

```[COLOR=Red]and when i open yahoo log in page it just keeps on loading nothing comes up on screen the same is with several other websites also[/COLOR]

and my interfaces file is like this 
```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

```
Output for ping
```
 
harry@harry-Inspiron-1545:~$ ping -c4 69.147.125.65
PING 69.147.125.65 (69.147.125.65) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 69.147.125.65: icmp_req=1 ttl=52 time=429 ms
64 bytes from 69.147.125.65: icmp_req=2 ttl=52 time=430 ms
64 bytes from 69.147.125.65: icmp_req=3 ttl=52 time=430 ms
64 bytes from 69.147.125.65: icmp_req=4 ttl=52 time=430 ms

--- 69.147.125.65 ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 3000ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 429.783/430.088/430.287/0.501 ms

```

---

### Post by harvindercs on 2011-06-06
> **Laforge129 said:**
> You could try to change to Opendns and see if it is a DNS problem:
[How to setup OpenDNS on Ubuntu]("https://store.opendns.com/setup/device/ubuntu/")

I suspect it is a DNS problem right now and not a Linux Problem!
page is not opening it just keeps on loading

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2011-06-06
> **harvindercs said:**
> page is not opening it just keeps on loading

Another idea for firefox. Type about:config in the url bar. It will ask you to be careful. Click the I'll be carefull, I promise button. It will display an input line called Filter. In the filter field type ipv6. It should then display below only a line that says:

network.dns.disableIPv6;                                         false

Double click on false to change it to true. If it already said true then this is not the problem.

---

### Post by harvindercs on 2011-06-06
> **alphacrucis2 said:**
> Another idea for firefox. Type about:config in the url bar. It will ask you to be careful. Click the I'll be carefull, I promise button. It will display an input line called Filter. In the filter field type ipv6. It should then display below only a line that says:

network.dns.disableIPv6;                                         false

Double click on false to change it to true. If it already said true then this is not the problem.

disabled it, even upgraded to firefox 5 beta still same problem :(

---

### Post by harvindercs on 2011-06-06
Here is the break through i connected using pppoeconf command and everything is fine and normal, yahoo log in is opened by firefox :) 
now tell me how to do the same with network manager because i dont want to use pppoeconf command everytime :( 
Help anyone :(

---

### Post by novinick on 2011-06-11
hi, first i think this has nothing to do with ipv6


it it other thing,try to tweak this DNS

so that second server goes before first
it hapeened to me i think on diferent ocasions

so if this is by using network manager
> harry@harry-Inspiron-1545:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 218.248.255.196
nameserver 218.248.255.194

get this listing again while conected by ppoeconf
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

and see if it looks like 
> # Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 218.248.255.**194**
nameserver 218.248.255.**196**

and then fill in in that order

(other seting on that tab may differ)

---

### Post by VOT Productions on 2011-06-11
Nice bump! Probably the issue was fixed way before you posted. (Aka the day is over)

---

### Post by novinick on 2011-06-11
nope wasn't i can feel it :cool:

and have a clue or two about pppoeconf and NM marriage  :popcorn:

---

### Post by VOT Productions on 2011-06-11
6th of June is gone already...

---

### Post by novinick on 2011-06-11
yup , but problems stay forewer , unsolved :cool:

---

