---
title: "9.04 LiveCD problem"
date: 2009-06-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mcbond on 2009-06-01
I'm stuck.  I downloaded the 9.04 ISO, verified it with winMd5Sum, burned the image to disk and restarted the computer.  Everything starts normally -- the Ubuntu logo is displayed, it asks for language selection, and then the menu displays.   When I select "Check disc for defects" it finds no defects.  When I select "Try Ubuntu without..."  the Ubuntu logo comes up with the orange cursor underneath going back and forth and eventually that's replaced with a progress bar that fills up, aand next a screen that lists a bunch of things really quickly with "OK" next to them appears, which is finally replaced by an all text screen that says:

Loading, please wait...
Linux ubuntu 2.6.28-11-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 17 01:57:59 UTC 2009 i686

[Then there are various legal disclaimers]

At the bottom I have a prompt that says ubuntu@ubuntu:~$

And that's all that happens.  
 
What's odd is that I'm able to use a LiveCD for 8.04 that came with a Ubuntu book I bought with no problem.  The desktop just loads right up with that one.

Anyway, any help would be MOST appreciated! :D

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-06-01
it seems there are a few machines where this is the case

perhaps your specific make, model, and specifications is one of them

you might use that information in your searches in the forums and see what you find

that's my first idea

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-06-01
>  perhaps your specific make, model, and specifications is one of themIf you post them here, someone will be able to give you some more help. Is your video an intel graphics chip?

---

### Post by mcbond on 2009-06-01
It's a Dell XPS 720.  I tried searching for that and variations of it on the forums and even just a general Google search, but I'm not getting any hits unfortunately.

Edit: Dell XPS 720
        C2D @ 3ghz
        2x Nvidia 9800gtx+ graphics
        4 gig RAM
        4 HD's in RAID 5
        The motherboard is Dell's take on the Nvidia nforce something or other (can find out)

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-06-01
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=543085](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=543085)

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-06-01
looks like these guys didn't get it to work

[http://wp.dembowski.net/2007/10/06/installing-ubuntu-on-a-dell-xps-720/](http://wp.dembowski.net/2007/10/06/installing-ubuntu-on-a-dell-xps-720/)

---

### Post by mcbond on 2009-06-01
Thanks for the links.  Doesn't look promising, but it's weird that 8.04 works okay.

---

