---
title: "13.10 boots to line command"
date: 2013-11-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by palmgrower on 2013-11-10
Because of the graphics issue, I installed MinimalCD > Line Command Input. Installation is complete. Now PC boots tt "pcname ~$" 
What's the next step? Thanks.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-11-10
palmgrower; Hi !

That depends on what you want !
You are at a point of what might be called "roll your own". A core install and it is your choice what to install on that core.
!st and foremost prior to any thing else:
```

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade

```
Most people do want a GUI. To have that GUI the Xorg package must be installed.
```

sudo apt-get install xorg

```

You probably also want a windows manager, out of the hundred available, I like xfce4 -> the field is wide open. Install what you prefer, it is your system and you are rolling.
```

sudo apt-get install xfce4

```

How about a web browser ? FireFox ? install what you prefer.
```

sudo apt-get install firefox

```
Do you need the codecs for DVDs and how about MS fonts and such ?
```

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras

```

That should get ya a working environment, what else you install is also your choice to meet your particular needs and wants,

[INDENT][INDENT]Hey, it's a great start
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by palmgrower on 2013-11-10
1) I just want to get the regular screen, I mean, the icons on the left column.

2) Since I have a graphics issue, I need to install nvidia graphics driver in the command line mode. How do I do this? Thanks.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-11-10
palmgrower; Hey ,

You have jumped in the deep end !
That " I mean, the icons on the left column." is it in reference to "unity" as the windows manager ?

Might I suggest, as you suppose you have graphics issues, to install a lighter DM ? .. 

You maybe surprised that the opensource drivers for your graphics card will perform admirably.

Else, if after install - say xfce4, learning how to configure it - you decide to try "unity" then -> one could install unity and see what happens.

Now upfront, if your hardware has a problem running the high end distribution "ubuntu", there are lighter weight 'buntu distributions available.
These also install a full package - with bells and whistles.
Have you considered Xubuntu or Lubuntu ?


As to installing proprietary drivers, that can be done, but please advise us what hardware you have. Before we can make any recommendation for installing other drivers that will be a prime consideration.
 
Please do not get me wrong. we are here to help. We offer our advise as per your request and needs.

[INDENT][INDENT]just try'n to help
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by palmgrower on 2013-11-10
Thanks for your help. The video card is nvidia GT 240. On my other PC, I had to remove the card and use onboard graphics to install 13.10. But this PC doesn't have onboard and I have to keep GT 240. Thanks.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-11-10
palmgrower;

I take it that you would prefer to install 13.10 "UBUNTU" , the flagship version on your computer ??

Can you boot the liveDVD of 13.10 on that system ?.. If you have the horse power in that machine to run "ubuntu" we can better work toward getting the graphics issue resolved on the standard install .. than you jumping in on a minimal install with no experience as to what to install, will be a very frustrating and unsatisfying experience for you.

Let's see what can be done to install ubuntu 13.10 standard desktop ?? It is a possibility that the installed driver will be proprietary from :
ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa. Others I am sure can advise better. But we can fumble our way to this.

Your other computer is probably using hybrid graphics, a lot has been done lately to have both graphics cards operational. But that is the theme for a new thread - one problem - one thread.

[INDENT][INDENT]so, what ya want to do 
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by palmgrower on 2013-11-10
It is not that I didn't try it. I downloaded 13.10 desktop amd64, put it on DVD, re-booted. PC froze on speckled screen. I couln't even reach the installation screen. That's why I used MinimalCD. Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by palmgrower on 2013-11-10
By the way, on my other PC with the same video card (GT240), I removed video card, used onboard graphics, installed 13.10 desktop amd64. Then, sudo apt-get install software-properties-common > sudo apt-add-repository ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa > sudo apt-get update > sudo apt-get install nvidia-current nvidia-settings. Power off. Put the video card in, connect monitor to the video card. Reboot. All started working. Do you think the same procedure can be repeated on the PC that boots to command line?
Thanks.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-11-10
palmgrower;
As the PC we are working with presently only has one graphics card, no can do that procedure in this instance.

Are you certain the liveDVD is good .. will it boot up in an alternate machine ?

Did you md5sum the .iso file ?
Did you "check disk" from the liveDVD boot option screen ?

Just covering bases before proceeding with efforts to boot the liveDVD.
Are you aware that there are boot options to enable booting in these difficult issues ? 

The "nomodeset" boot option may enable you to boot to the GUI .. from there perhaps try and see what "Additional drivers" recommends for the graphics driver (??).

Added  info: installing from the PPA is a means of last resort, unless one knows what to expect and how to recover as a kernel update often breaks the proprietary driver. That requires (re-)installing the driver.

[INDENT][INDENT]we can try
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by palmgrower on 2013-11-10
Thanks for not giving me up yet. 

I used the same DVD to install 13.10 on the other PC. I am using the PC to type this.

No, I don't know how to do "nomodeset" boot. But the screen freezes before giving me any boot option. But I will try again. Thanks.

---

### Post by palmgrower on 2013-11-11
Finally, I managed to full install 13.10. In case anyone else has the same graphic card problem, here is what I did.

MinimalCD > Command Line Install > Log-in prompt > Enter user name and password (still in line command)

Next, install nvidia driver:

sudo apt-get install software-properties-common (this enables apt-add-repository of the next line)
sudo apt-add-repository ppa*colon*xorg-edgers/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current nvidia-settings
(reboot)
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
(reboot)

Thank you all.

footnote: *colon* in the second sudo is to be the colon symbol

EDIT: :I had to re-install 13.10 on the PC and ran these 3 commands after MinimalCD installation.
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop.
After reboot, the graphic ubuntu desktop appeared.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-11-11
palmgrower; Hey ! Outstanding !

You do good work.

[INDENT][INDENT]look forward to our next adventure
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

