---
title: "10.04 has gone Haywire !"
date: 2010-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nnjond on 2010-05-11
Hi,
I freshly installed Lynx wich seemed a success. Now my environment has acquired a multitude of bugs!

Banshee didn't install properly and won't open. Synaptic Package Manager wont open and returns:

E: dpkg was interrupted, you must manually run 'sudo dpkg --configure -a' to correct the problem. 
E: _cache->open() failed, please report.

Then I ...

nnjond@nnjond-desktop:~$ sudo dpkg --configure -a
[sudo] password for nnjond: 
Setting up libgdata1.4-cil (1.4.0.2-3) ...
* Installing 14 assemblies from libgdata1.4-cil into Mono


Which just hangs...

Most of the url in Chromium is greyed and it wont take me anywhere

Clicking on the os menu bar doesn't reliable cause it to drop down 


I cant load Open Office because it crashes before it opens

And windows jump to full scrn when i try to move them by picking them up by the title bar

---

### Post by QIII on 2010-05-11
Can you run a Live session?

---

### Post by nnjond on 2010-05-11
Thanks for your interest.

What's a live session?

Oh yes i expect so

---

### Post by themusicalduck on 2010-05-11
Sorry. Posted this in the wrong thread >.<.

---

### Post by matthollycart on 2010-05-11
10.04 is not going so well for me either. I upgraded on my desktop, in which I was running dual systems, both Ubuntu and Windows XP. Everything was well; that is, until I upgraded. I was unable to get to XP again because the windows prompt was gone. When you would choose XP from the Grub menu, it would not load at all. When we later had to reinstall Windows, it showed our windows prompt was completely gone and had to be restored/reinstalled.

On this computer here, my laptop, I am running dual with Vista and Ubuntu. When I upgraded, I am thankfully still able to get on Vista, however, it seems that things I try to download (such as the Chrome Adblock extension) will not work for me. It worked and was functioning well on the old Ubuntu. I guess I should have read some more info before upgrading. I would call this a minor disaster.

---

