---
title: "12.10/64-bit problems with dvd utilities"
date: 2012-11-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2012-11-26
I've been trying to backup some of my DVDs.  I've been having some problems with the various DVD utilities - brasero, k3b, k9copy, dvd95.  Brasero and k3b both just abort - no reason given - when working with a source that is an ISO I created from the DVD until I could get what I want working.  Neither would work with my DVD-R DL - they would fail about 3/4 the way through.  I tried dvd95 to try shrinking to a dvd5 (4.7gb).  It just hangs there at 6% done, total progress 3% and sits at the top of the "top" list at 99.5 or higher usage.  I have to force kill it as the system says the process is not responding when I try to close it.

I was able to use acidrip to create a mpeg4 file - but the sound starts/stops and the video is terrible (even when I said to use the best quality).

What I would like to do:  back up my DVD's.  I wanted to use DVD-R DL disks, but burned everything I had making coasters trying to get this to work.  I have some DVD+R DL but the DVD player I use with my TV doesn't load them.  So, given that I have a "crap load" of just DVD-R's sitting around, I'd like to try to use those - hence why I tried dvd95.  I already have the protection processing installed, so I don't need to worry about that (the .ISO plays fine, and the mpeg4 created by acidrip was at least playable - just not good.

Are there any other apps to try to do this, preferably with a GUI?  Is this a problem with running 64-bit?  Is there some background process needed that didn't show as a dependency?  I did install dvdauthor separately.

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-11-27
The more I think about it, the more I think I had this problem in the past, and it was purely due to the size of the file.  It appears that anything above 4gb just doesn't get processed.  Even just trying to copy (not "burn") the ISO FILE to a 16gb flash drive results in errors of the file being too big at the 4gb point.  This all sounds very familiar, and I don't think a solution was ever found in  the past.  So.........just exactly what does a person have to do to get these programs to work with a file larger than 4gb?

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-25
No answer, and I have moved on.

---

### Post by claracc on 2013-06-26
> **squakie said:**
> No answer, and I have moved on.

The thread has not been answered but as I understand from your post, it doesn mean it has been solved ( or at least you don't say in what way).

If you want to close the thread you have to ask for it to a moderator, but marking the thread as solved without being fixed the problem is not correct and can only add confusion to the forum.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-26
I already know that, but I didn't want to deluge them with a whole series of things I was closing out tonight just to clean up.

Admin:  If you want to go through the ones I marked as solved and instead change them to closed that's fine by me.

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2013-06-26
[CENTER][COLOR=#333333][FONT=Roboto][/FONT][/COLOR][/CENTER]
sounds like a limitation of your filesystem. are you ripping to FAT32?

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-26
Well, Congratulations - I have to go back and edit everyone of these things.

So, SOLVED - NO.

Me interested?  NO.

---

