---
title: "./configure -- Permission denied?"
date: 2011-12-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pakopako on 2011-12-01
A splinter problem related to [this thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1888611) of mine (not sure if that thread and this should be merged), I am trying to install [this GMP package]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/pt/source/maverick/amd64/gmp") from ubuntu.com (gmp_4.3.2+dfsg.orig.tar.gz) as detailed by [this blog]("http://buildall.wordpress.com/2011/04/20/installing-gcc-4-6-in-the-ubuntu-10-10/").  I am on Ubuntu 11.04 so I realize [some changes to those steps]("http://buildall.wordpress.com/2011/05/03/installing-gcc-4-6-in-the-ubuntu-11-04-natty-narwhal/") must occur, but thought these steps would still apply: ```
sudo apt-get install mpc libmpc-dev libmpfr-dev libppl0.10-dev libcloog-ppl-dev zlib1g zlib1g-dev libc6-dev-i386 m4 flex
wget http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/g/gmp/gmp_4.3.2+dfsg.orig.tar.gz tar xvf gmp_4.3.2+dfsg.orig.tar.gz
cd gmp-4.3.2+dfsg
./configure
make
sudo make install
make check
```  However **libc6-dev-i386** was not found (I did the apt-get without that in the line with no problem), and **./configure** gave me *bash: ./configure: Permission denied*
  I tried **sudo ./configure**, but it gave me an error report: *sudo: ./configure: command not found*

  This all stemmed from my problem from trying to install gcc-4.6 the other night (as detailed in my earlier thread). My HDD ran out of space mid-make. I tried deleting the entire folder where I built gcc-4.6-20111125 and unpack the original folder onto a USB drive and start all over again, but upon running the gcc-4.6 configure script, I was given a **[i]permission denied[/i**] error just like the one I am running into now. 

 Why is it doing that?

---

### Post by pakopako on 2011-12-02
No Joy? :sad:

**Edit**
Didn't want to bump this thread and I don't know how to lock it, but thanks to OldOS2er. Apparently WUBI doesn't give you an fstab file. I would up using a WUBI demo Ubuntu 11.10 and that was probably quicker than figuring out all the dependent packages I'd still need to compile gcc-4.6 on 11.04.

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-12-02
IDK why "permission denied", but it should be available with sudo.

are you sure that there are no gaps or spaces and that there are no spelling errors?

EDIT: I think "chmod +x configure" should do it...

---

### Post by dniMretsaM on 2011-12-02
Try this:
```
sudo chmod +x /path/to/configure/script
```

---

### Post by pakopako on 2011-12-02
> **MG&TL said:**
> IDK why "permission denied", but it should be available with sudo.

are you sure that there are no gaps or spaces and that there are no spelling errors?

EDIT: I think "chmod +x configure" should do it...

Not sure what I could have misspelled. I copied what I saw from terminal and got really confused when I did "**sudo ./configure"** and got that "not found" error.

I tried the chmod method, doing a 777 on [all files and recursively](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1792564). It's not working from the flash drive or the NTFS partitions.

Now that I've got 1.2 GB free on my SDA6, I'll try that after unpacking the TAR again into my Documents folder. I just have to wait for my PC to stop read/write from the unpacking (got a low-end solid-state IDE drive... I don't think a high-end IDE SSD exists.)

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-12-02
> **pakopako said:**
> I tried the chmod method, doing a 777 on [all files and recursively](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1792564). It's not working from the flash drive or the NTFS partitions.


Microsoft file systems e.g. NTFS, FAT32, etc., do not implement Linux file permissions, but you can mount them with executable permissions, see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1604251](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1604251)

---

### Post by pakopako on 2011-12-03
> **oldos2er said:**
> Microsoft file systems e.g. NTFS, FAT32, etc., do not implement Linux file permissions, but you can mount them with executable permissions, see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1604251](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1604251)
That's awesome! But is fstab a directory, or a file I have to create? (It doesn't exist in my /etc/ directory.)

Crap, what would I have a less likely chance of screwing up, mounting an NTFS partition (which has about 5GB of free space... should be enough to configure and make gcc-4.6) or porting my [WUBI installation to a full installation](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519354) to give my Ubuntu install more free space to work with?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-12-03
I know next to nothing about about Wubi, but it's really only intended to be a demo of Ubuntu, nothing permanent. If you intend to keep using Ubuntu I'd suggest doing a real installation.

/etc/fstab is a text file; I find it difficult to believe it doesn't exist on your system. 

For your original problem, try changing libc6-dev-i386 to libc6-dev. Also I assume you're outside of your /home/user folder when running ./configure, which could be why you're getting the permission denied error.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-12-03
I know next to nothing about about Wubi, but it's really only intended to be a demo of Ubuntu, nothing permanent. If you intend to keep using Ubuntu I'd suggest doing a real installation.

/etc/fstab is a text file; I find it difficult to believe it doesn't exist on your system. 

For your original problem, try changing libc6-dev-i386 to libc6-dev. Also I assume you're outside of your /home/user folder when running ./configure, which could be why you're getting the permission denied error.

---

### Post by bugbugbugb on 2012-12-27
I only skimmed over the first post, but as far as I can tell, I'm having a similar error for the 'configure' file. To remedy the issue, I right clicked it and allowed running as an executable.
It's not a matter of file permission, per se, but permission to use it that way.

---

