---
title: "9.4 - Where did my Internet connectivity icon go?"
date: 2009-11-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by RabbitWho on 2009-11-18
You know.. the two computers on the task bar that show you you're connected.. i left my computer, came back a few hours later and they were gone. Not just the icons, when i tried to connect to the internet I couldn't, it's not the internet that's wrong because I can still connect in windows.. 

Any ideas? where can you find this icon if you accidentally delete it from the task bar? 
I tried right clicking and going ad to panel.. not there. 

thanks :)

---

### Post by lgiordano on 2009-11-18
Are you trying to connect to a wireless network? If so its the "notification area" applet you need.

---

### Post by Shpongle on 2009-11-18
try nm-applet & , can you get on the net with a cable

---

### Post by RabbitWho on 2009-11-18
Yup it's a cable.. okay I'll try that now

nope, got into that, i can change the settings, but there's nothing to make it connect.
I would think it wasn't recognizing the cable, but that icon has never not been there before, even when there's no internet.

---

### Post by RabbitWho on 2009-11-20
Okay today it connected itself to the internet.. but the icon is still gone, which makes me nervous.. 
Bumping.. anyone have any idea how to get it back? 

I can't disable wireless without it and i'm not using wireless.. . so it keeps asking me for my neighbors password.. I can disable it blindly with keyboard shortcuts.. then I think it's disabled.. and then 3 minutes later it asks me for the password again.. if i could actually see something that would make me feel more secure. 

is there a command that is the equivalent to "please (temporarily) disable wireless" and another one that means "please try to connect to the internet using the eth cable" ?

---

### Post by John Bean on 2009-11-20
Is the "Network Manager" applet enabled in System->Preferences->Startup Applications? This is what produces the icon that you've lost.

If it is there, then you've probably lost the "Notification Area" panel item. Right-click on the panel, select "Add to panel" and choose "Notification Area".

---

### Post by clive littlewood on 2009-11-20
Hi

If you are still having problems after the previous advise the try using Wicd from the repos.

This remove NM and I find it easier and more stable than NM.

Hope this helps

Clive

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-11-20
> **clive littlewood said:**
> Hi

If you are still having problems after the previous advise the try using Wicd from the repos.

This remove NM and I find it easier and more stable than NM.

**Don't remove Network Manager!** Without it, there will be nothing available to manage your Ethernet or 3G connections - and if Wicd doesn't work, then you won't have wireless either, and you can't get Network Manager back without a network connection.

Make sure you have the Notification Area added to your panel, and try running "nm-applet" in a terminal.

---

### Post by RabbitWho on 2009-11-21
> **3rdalbum said:**
> 

Make sure you have the Notification Area added to your panel, and try running "nm-applet" in a terminal.



Oh man I'm such a newbie.. and everyone underestimated exactly how much of a newbie I was so they didn't give me this basic advice. 

The notification area was what was missing, and i didn't know, as soon as I put that back the two little computers that I was looking for came back. 

Thanks so much for your help everyone! Problems solved! Do forgive me, live and learn (i hope!)

---

