---
title: "nVidia GPU fan speed"
date: 2014-11-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Neil_Nand on 2014-11-22
Hello,

I've recently installed Ubuntu along side Windows & have an nVidia graphics card which it seems without the nVidia software installed has the fan running at 100% all the time which makes it far to loud to use while working.

Is there a way to slow the fan down? I've attempted to install drivers from nVidia but got a message saying something about an X server being run. So I Googled for this [found a post on here ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1916961")saying to press Ctrl + Alt + F1 then enter some commands to stop it then to install the drivers, problem is that when I press those keys I'm presented with a black screen and no way of interacting with the machine any more resulting me in having to reset the computer.

Really I just wantto slow the graphics card fan speed down, does anyone have any ideas? On Windows I think I'm using a program called evga precision which lets me set the fan profile to silent.

Thanks for any help Neil.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-11-22
What Nvidia card do you have? In Ubuntu we use a utility called Additional Drivers to install the Nvidia driver because it is proprietary or closed source software. 

If we install Ubuntu and tick the box "Install third party software" then the proprietary video driver is installed during the installation of Ubuntu. So, you may already be using the Nvidia driver. 

If you open About This Computer that is at the top of the power/cog menu then the Details page will load and that will say what video driver is being used. If it says Gallium then it is the open source video driver and not the proprietary driver in use.

When the proprietary video driver is installed we also get a settings manager for the Nvidia driver. We can find it by searching the Dash for Nvidia. Based on my memory from the last time I used the Nvidia driver, I do not think we get the option to switch off the fans. My Nvidia card increases and decreases the activity of the GPU according to the load being used. That will reduce the amount of heat being generated by the GPU and in turn reduce the need for the fan.

I do not think it unusual for the GPU fan to be running all the time. It prevents the video adapter from over-heating and that would damage the video adapter. 

Regards.

---

### Post by Neil_Nand on 2014-11-22
Hello,

Thanks very much for the reply, I'm sure I checked that box during installation and when I search my computer for nVidia I find an "nVidia X server application" which was what was stopping me from installing the drivers I downloaded before but from what you've said I've already got them installed.

You're right that there is no settings in here to change the fan speed but it's certainly possible, maybe not under Linux, but on Windows I can set the profile to silent mode so the fan spins a lot slower making it a lot quieter. As it is, in what I'd guess is standard mode, it's far to loud to work with really.

If yourself or anyone else has any ideas on this feel free to say.

Thanks again for the reply.

[UPDATE]
In looking into this I've discovered that my graphics card has a firmware update out which allows it to turn the fans off altogether when operating below 60C. I've done this and now they're totally silent!

Not exactly the fix I was trying for but my problem was that the fans were to loud under Linux and now they're quite so I guess that's solved the problem.

If anyone has any information on installing the Linux nVidia drivers it probably would be good to have them installed I guess.

---

