---
title: "My resolution is still like at 800x640"
date: 2009-04-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by David-IT on 2009-04-18
Hey guys i have been looking through posts and i cannot seem to get my resolution to 1200x1024 i think lol here is my Xorg.config:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
please help me i just started trying to learn linux and its not so easy so far but there is no way i am going to quit!

---

### Post by pspsampsp on 2009-04-18
Up in the top left click System , then click Preferences , then click Display. a window should pop up and there will be a way to change resolution there.

---

### Post by tsger on 2009-04-18
> **David-IT said:**
> Hey guys i have been looking through posts and i cannot seem to get my resolution to 1200x1024 i think lol here is my Xorg.config:

please help me i just started trying to learn linux and its not so easy so far but there is no way i am going to quit!

What video card are you using?  If Nvidia or ATI, have you installed the proprietary drivers? (System / Administration / Hardware Drivers)

---

### Post by David-IT on 2009-04-18
ok my res is at 640X480 so i cant even click the apply setting for me to change the resolution thats why i need some help! please help me will be greatly appreciated!i have installed driver's for my nvidia card but not sure properties hold on yes i have installed properties drivers through tabbing it till i guessed the apply or install button since i cannot really see anything on my screen resolution to big

---

### Post by pspsampsp on 2009-04-18
try restarting your pc and if that doesnt work click system -> administration -> NVIDIA X server settings.

now in the nvidia x server settings window click the second option down: X server Display Configuration. now you should be able to change your resolution there and click apply even in 640 x 480 cause i just did it myself.

---

### Post by homey69 on 2009-04-18
first do an alt + F2, then type in "terminal" without quotes. at the prompt type in 

```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

then select the second tab down titled "X Server Display Configuration"

select desired settings

click apply, then click "Save to X Configuration File"

(doing all this as root will make the system remember the setting for future logins)

also, you can drag the window around if you hold down Alt

---

### Post by David-IT on 2009-04-18
1 problem guys i only have nvidia-settings configurations tab i don't have any other tab's :(

---

### Post by David-IT on 2009-04-19
hey guys thnx for all the help i got it  :D

---

