---
title: "9.10 Install on fresh hardrive problem"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mrothgeb on 2009-10-30
Hey gang!  

My old HD running 9.04 started to crash so I replaced it and installed 9.10.  Install went fine, rebooted and got and error message: No such device (long string of code) press any key to continue.  GRUB loads and it looks like the OS is loaded but it doesn't seem to recognize the HD as being there.  

And yet, the BIOS setup recognizes the new drive and the Disk Check from the 9.10 disc shows no defects.

I'm going to burn a new copy of 9.04 and see if that loads.

---

### Post by mrothgeb on 2009-10-30
9.04 installed just fine and new HD boots great.

Think it might be a bad image?  maybe I'll just wait a bit before trying to do 9.10 upgrade.

---

### Post by Jakey_TheSnake on 2009-10-30
Could've been a bad image or a bad install, try a fresh copy of 9.10 but backup data beforehand. I wouldn't upgrade from .04 though, fresh installs are always nicer!

---

### Post by mrothgeb on 2009-10-31
Thanks!

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-31
Always check the md5sum on newly downloaded ISOs.

You could dual boot with 9.04 too.

---

### Post by mrothgeb on 2009-10-31
> **ranch hand said:**
> Always check the md5sum on newly downloaded ISOs.




i have no idea what you're talking about.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-31
Ah, this could be the problem.  If you look on the page that listed the ISO that you downloaded, there is another download available "md5sums".  Get it.

I always have my downloads saved to my Desktop.  This is how you find the md5sum of your ISO;
```

dan-desktop:~$ cd /home/dan/Desktop
dan-desktop:~/Desktop$ md5sum karmic-desktop-amd64.iso
md5sum: karmic-desktop-amd64.iso: No such file or directory
dan-desktop:~/Desktop$ md5sum karmic-desktop-amd64A.iso
61ed3b8ac518fc346b00571cecfbadd1  karmic-desktop-amd64A.iso
dan-desktop:~/Desktop$ 

```
The "cd" command changes the directory that the terminal is working in.  Since my ISO is in Desktop, that is where I must be working from.

I left the error in there to show that typos happen and count.  This was an old ISO that I saved and renamed (added the A) so that I could download another ISO with that name (this is left over from testing).

The number generated when I got the name right is the md5sum.  You do this for your ISO and compare it to the md5sum that you downloaded (or copied from the web page) that is for your ISO.

If they match, everything is cool.  If they do not match, you are hosed and need to download again.

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2009-10-31
> **jakey_thesnake said:**
> could've been a bad image or a bad install, try a fresh copy of 9.10 but backup data beforehand. I wouldn't upgrade from .04 though, fresh installs are always nicer!

yep, +1!!

---

