---
title: ".jfr files"
date: 2011-10-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by chitragurung on 2011-10-28
Hi

I have so many files with .jfr extension, which can not be open and creates duplicates file name with .jfr extension. How to remove it or clear those kind of unwanted files from computer.

---

### Post by roger_1960 on 2011-10-28
Hi

Open Nautilus (file manager), search for .jfr and when found (it will list all occurences on your computer) delete them (select them all, or those you wish to delete, and right click and move to trash).  Is this what you meant?

---

### Post by chitragurung on 2011-10-28
I have both needed and unwanted files. It has so many files. so it is difficult to select one by one. is there any tools to select automatically and deletes ?

---

### Post by bhadotia on 2011-10-28
> **chitragurung said:**
> I have both needed and unwanted files. It has so many files. so it is difficult to select one by one. is there any tools to select automatically and deletes ?

I they follow a particular naming pattern you can search for only those that need to be deleted using wildcards in nautilus search. Or if you know some terminal you can search on the net for scripts/commands to select and delete particular files.

The only tool required is a file manager (or a terminal) but you will need to spend some time on researching for a way to automate the process.
But that said there might be some specialized tools out there I am not aware of;)

---

### Post by chitragurung on 2011-10-28
thanks btw how to use nautilus ?

---

### Post by roger_1960 on 2011-10-29
Hi again

Open nautilus by clicking on the folder icon in the launcher or Home in a dropdown (depending which version of ubuntu you are using).  If you dont know how to use the search facility, I suggest you select "help" and "search for files" and read it. I cant explain it any better.  If you need further help, do post back here.

When you perform a search for, say .jfr it will list the files all in one big list in alphabetical order.  Its easy to select them all (or just big blocks of them) at once and delete them quickly.

---

