---
title: "[SOLVED] ati card help"
date: 2008-07-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by waspbr on 2008-07-11
k, so I have this old-ish desktop, Athlon xp 3000+ , 2GB DDR 400

and all, so I though that a boost was in order since the video card that I had was a nvidia GF N6200, so, not great. Hence I saw this sale for new AGP cards and I thought me old trusty computer could benefit from that. So I go this sapphire HD 3850 **AGP** card. At first I thought I had struck gold, ati drivers have gone open source (feel free to correct me) and I was sick of the little conflict with my nvidia drivers,  for example I had to revert from glx-new to glx in order to play some games {UT 2004} and revert back to the new ones for others {ET}.
PS: I usually login to kde or xfce for performance boost, but it didn' t help

Fair enough, the installation in both windows and ubuntu went smooth, but then I have decided to put my new card to the test, I already used to play in UT 2004 in relatively high settings, thus I thought that I could crank them up a notch without any loss of performance... well... I was wrong, the FPS was all over the place, it was really choppy... so I was like ok let's see if I revert to the basic graphics the performance improves... nope...

Should I blame the drivers for the performance? what should I do? install new drivers with envy?

thanks for the help

---

### Post by waspbr on 2008-07-11
*bump*

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-07-11
That card should work just fine if you disable compiz when running your games. There is a conflict between compiz window manager and the ati drivers that has not yet been solved, even with the latest 8.6 driver. 

There are guides around heere to getting the latest driver from ati and installing it. Personally, I have had nothing but trouble using envy. 

Just right click on the desktop and select Change Desktop Background/Visual Effects, None.

---

### Post by waspbr on 2008-07-17
update on the situation....

well, that's not it, I was running the game in xfce, without compiz, but I went on to gnome and disabled compiz anyway by replacing it with metacity, which meant that I lost my cairo-dock.... there was no improvement in performance, video playback is unbearable, luckily I have a laptop where I can do it, but that's not solving the problem, that is avoiding it. 

I am still puzzled as to how the drivers can be so... bad. I am hoping that the next version improves, the performance of the card in my winXP partition actually is great, so I went from using ubuntu 95% of the time to using winxp 95% of the time in my desktop...

but I haven't given up completely, as we speak I am fighting with envy, I have (hopefully) wiped every trace of the previous driver and now I am gonna attempt an envy install, if I am not back in 10 min, call for back up...

---

### Post by waspbr on 2008-07-17
k, another update, I have used envy to install the latest drivers and there good news, bad news and worse news. The worse news is that whenever I try to login the usual way to my GNOME session, everything seems to go swiftly... I hear the login song, the mouse pointer changes to the theme I had selected and... boom... white screen. I can still see the mouse pointer tho, it even indicates different areas in my desktop, by changing accordingly (window resize resize cursor, link pointer hand...) but still white screen (WSD?), I manage to get out by doing ctrl+alt+backspace, then select the failsafe GNOME session, which is what I am using now... 

so... if any of you had any pointers that would be extremely appreciated.

the good news is that the drivers have been installed, the resolution is at 1680x1050, which is nice, but the performance is still not great, now even scrolling in nautilus looks bad... any advice here?

here's my xorg

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection


---

### Post by waspbr on 2008-07-17
another update, think I just broke my xorg.... the plot thickens...


****, meet fan.

---

### Post by waspbr on 2008-07-17
okay, I am not sure how but I think things are sorted somehow...

I went on to the restricted drivers manager and saw that the 3d drivers were not in use, so instead of asking around if when I use envy I still have to enable the drivers at the drivers manager. I just went there and enabled it... it isntalled a few modules and asked me to reboot. 

On reboot, xorg was definitely broken, the screen was black, there was no failsafe option, so I went back to grub and selected the recovery boot,I first tried to repair my xorg then I set it to fix any broken packages. I was then able to resume booting. 

actually sort of, I got to the gdm login screen, which was green and the resolution was all messed up (understandably). So I logged in normally,but as I logged in my monitor would shut off. I then went back to the GDM screen 
(alt+ctrl+backspace) and selected the failsafe gnome option, that took me to a greenish undersized version of my desktop. I was tempted to go to synaptic search for fglrx and uninstall everything I could find, I am glad I didn't I opened envy and installed the ati drivers again, I thought things could not get any worse.

I was glad to find that this fixed it, I was able to normally login into my ubuntu desktop. there are no scrolling issues this time and I just played a HD video to check, it ran ok. Now I am gonna see if I can enable compiz without any loss of performance.

long live envy :-P

---

### Post by waspbr on 2008-07-17
now the video playback flickering  (flashing) problem

---

### Post by waspbr on 2008-07-17
solution for the flickering problem found here

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5222068&postcount=6]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5222068&postcount=6")

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-07-17
Also, if you want to get the latest 8.6 driver from ATI you can follow the directions here, follow them very carefully and completely, especially if you are using amd64:

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide)

That is the only guide that I can for sure say that will work for you.

If you want to make more adjustments:

[http://forum.compiz-fusion.org/showthread.php?t=6794](http://forum.compiz-fusion.org/showthread.php?t=6794)

You can make these with the current driver if you want.

Both of these have made a big difference for my HD3650. 

If you want to read the release notes:

[https://a248.e.akamai.net/f/674/9206/0/www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/catalyst_86_linux.html](https://a248.e.akamai.net/f/674/9206/0/www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/catalyst_86_linux.html)

---

### Post by tom-japan on 2008-11-24
I had the same problem-seems to be common. Linked solution worked, but I had to tweak it b/c of an error at the command prompt.

In 'Section "ServerLayout"', I changed:
 
[FONT="Arial Black"]Screen 0 "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0[/FONT]
to
[FONT="Arial Black"]Screen "Default Screen" 0 0[/FONT]

And in the 'Section "Device"', I changed

[FONT="Arial Black"]Identifier "aticonfig-Device[0]"[/FONT]
to
[FONT="Arial Black"]Identifier  "Default Layout"[/FONT]


Thanks for the link. Finding those things can be really time consuming.

---

