---
title: "12.10 output to TV via HDMI"
date: 2012-10-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by leecasey on 2012-10-20
Hi as the title suggests I'm having trouble outputting to my TV via HDMI. Ubuntu detects my Samsung TV but I can find now way of getting anything to appear on the TV. Am I missing something really obvious? Is there some kind of keyboard shortcut or something? 

Thanks

---

### Post by Lisiano on 2012-10-20
Just simply fire up the Displays tool (Dash -> Displays) and give the TV a resolution. If that fails, you might have to install the proprietary drivers for either nVidia or ATI (**[Read the warning Mark Phelps wrote about ATI lower]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12307033&postcount=3")**). nVidia will work with the Displays tool, as for ATI, I don't know. You might have to use ATI Catalyst to configure an ATI card. To install the proprietary drivers, open up Software Sources from Dash.

Also, atm there seems to be a bug around nVidia cards (Possible ATI too). So before installing proprietary drivers, please install the following: [linux-headers-generic]("apt://linux-headers-generic") (Just click the name)

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-10-20
There are numerous reports, and more are coming in all the time, that the AMD restricted drivers don't work with 12.10.  So, unless you want a bunch of problems that you are unlikely to be able to fix, don't force the install of the AMD drivers just yet.

---

### Post by leecasey on 2012-10-21
Hi thanks for the replies.

I've tried to install the nvidia drivers a few times now. Installing the headers first like you advise one one attempt. I am left with the same result though, I have no desktop environment. Ie. I can right click the desktop and open a terminal etc but the menu bar and unity bar are not present. I've seen some apparent solutions on here but neither worked. Iva had to fresh install 3 times! Eek.

What would you suggest I do from here?  Instal 12.04 until issues with 12.10 are resolved? Or will a am update / fix be pushed within the coming days?

---

