---
title: "10.10 tty1?"
date: 2011-05-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by seandangerwhite on 2011-05-09
I was upgrading ubuntu to 10.10 and with 23 minutes remaining everything it froze. I waited several hours and it never budged off of 23 minutes.  I had to go to bed and had to shut down the computer due to the loud fan.  When I attempted to reboot it leads only to a terminal like screen displaying "ubuntu 10.10 sean-desktop tty1" and "sean-desktop login:". I do not know what to log in with as I'm sure I only have a keyring password and don't know what my user name might be.   I have looked on other solutions but first of all I can't get in.  Please helP.   All data on computer is backed up so I'm not worried about a full refresh if need be.  Cheers

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-05-09
2 words: Clean install.

---

### Post by seandangerwhite on 2011-05-09
Where do I go for that? I went to the ubuntu home page, followed the links and made a disc.  This must be the wrong one as I can't book from it.    Thanks

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-05-09
You can try to fix the install by booting to recovery mode (it is an option at the grub boot screen) and dropping to a root shell (command line).

But fixing a partial upgrade can be complicated.

The install guide is here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GraphicalInstall](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GraphicalInstall)

---

### Post by wlraider70 on 2011-05-09
[http://releases.ubuntu.com/10.10/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/10.10/)

I prefer the torrent downloads I think they are more reliable. 
Male sure you have the 32 vs 64 bit and desktop vs server version.

md5 check sums will verify that you have a good disk.
your box should boot from the disk automatically if not check your bios.

---

### Post by seandangerwhite on 2011-05-09
I have tried and retried the disc and I just go back to the same original place. I have tried booting from everywhere and get no results.  What am I missing? Thanks

---

### Post by wlraider70 on 2011-05-09
it sounds like you are not booting the disk.
Are you familiar with this? have you been into the bios of your computer? try pressing del or F10 or F? right when machine first powers up.
thats where you can confirm "boot order". CD/DVD should be before hard drive.

---

### Post by seandangerwhite on 2011-05-09
I have tried all the options on the boot menu and its just taking me to the login page. Nor can I find a way of opening.  The computer in safe mode through the bios and boot menus. Cheers

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-09
> **seandangerwhite said:**
> When I attempted to reboot it leads only to a terminal like screen displaying "ubuntu 10.10 sean-desktop tty1" and "sean-desktop login:". I do not know what to log in with as I'm sure I only have a keyring password and don't know what my user name might be.   I have looked on other solutions but first of all I can't get in.Your login name and password will not have changed due to upgrade. It will still be the same as it was before upgrade.

---

