---
title: "10.4 Making Panels Transparent"
date: 2011-03-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Legeril on 2011-03-21
I would like to make my panels transparent while leaving the icons and text, is there a way to do this? I searched but could only find some info for Xubuntu jaunty.

I've managed to get the panel partially transparent but the menus don't see to want to go the same way and so it looks a little funky - in a bad way.

Thank you

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2011-03-21
Hello,

I had faced exactly the same issue, some time before. Just check out this and see how you can adjust transparency, according to your liking.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9217841&postcount=112](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9217841&postcount=112)

Regards!

---

### Post by vallvi on 2011-03-21
right click on an empty space on the panel, click 'properties' --> background --> solid color. And use the style slider to set the transparancy level.

---

### Post by Legeril on 2011-03-21
I downloaded compizconfig-setting-manager and this has given me some more options, I don't think it's possible to make the 'menu buttons' (the Applications, Places, System parts) on the panel transparent.

Thanks for the help

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2011-03-22
Hello,

> **Legeril said:**
> I downloaded compizconfig-setting-manager and this has given me some more options, I don't think it's possible to make the 'menu buttons' (the Applications, Places, System parts) on the panel transparent.

Thanks for the help

if you want the buttons, you can do straight away, what *vallvi* suggested, meaning to make transparent the top panel of your desktop. From my humble experience you cannot do anything else there, as you cannot place any document underneath those buttons. So transparency means to be able to see only the image of your desktop underneath the panel's letters. If you want to make transparent the menus (when you click e.g. applications, the menu that appears) then you can do it easily as I describe you in the link provided. 

I have to admit, that I was able to do it also with a different way, via ubuntu tweak, and choosing a sub composite manager, yet I do not remember exactly the way. From that manager you were able to choose the color of transparency as well.

It is not difficult to accomplish this task.

Hope it helped,
Regards!

---

