---
title: ".bin file not installing even after chmod"
date: 2009-11-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by linux_game on 2009-11-07
I am very new to Linux and am facing problems installing my .bin file. I tried to read through related threads and have hence made sure to "chmod" as required. But am confused about the reason I am unable to proceed. This is what I have done :

harsh@ubuntu:~$ ls
Desktop    Downloads         java_ee_sdk-5_01-linux.bin  Pictures  Templates
Documents  examples.desktop  Music                       Public    Videos

harsh@ubuntu:~$ sudo chmod +x java_ee_sdk-5_01-linux.bin 

harsh@ubuntu:~$ sudo ./java_ee_sdk-5_01-linux.bin
sudo: unable to execute ./java_ee_sdk-5_01-linux.bin: No such file or directory


Any help will be appreciated.
Thanks in advance.

PS: This is the first installation in Linux being performed. I may lack some needed installer.

---

### Post by phillw on 2009-11-07
> **linux_game said:**
> I am very new to Linux and am facing problems installing my .bin file. I tried to read through related threads and have hence made sure to "chmod" as required. But am confused about the reason I am unable to proceed. This is what I have done :

harsh@ubuntu:~$ ls
Desktop    Downloads         java_ee_sdk-5_01-linux.bin  Pictures  Templates
Documents  examples.desktop  Music                       Public    Videos

harsh@ubuntu:~$ sudo chmod +x java_ee_sdk-5_01-linux.bin 

harsh@ubuntu:~$ sudo ./java_ee_sdk-5_01-linux.bin
sudo: unable to execute ./java_ee_sdk-5_01-linux.bin: No such file or directory


Any help will be appreciated.
Thanks in advance.

PS: This is the first installation in Linux being performed. I may lack some needed installer.


Welcome !!!

We don't really use bin files, I suspect you may have downloaded a microsoft version of the programme that you are seeking. I can see **java** is in the file name, could you say what it is you are attempting to do.

Phill.

---

### Post by j-fparadis on 2009-11-20
I actually have the same kind of problem here (short story, can't find the CD in this mess, crave for the game... so I downloaded it... the CD image is a .bin I can execute)

Here's what it gives me:
j-fparadis@j-fparadis-desktop:~/Desktop/Victoria_/Victoria$ file ./dev-vict.bin
./dev-vict.bin: data
j-fparadis@j-fparadis-desktop:~/Desktop/Victoria_/Victoria$ sudo ./dev-vict.bin
[sudo] password for j-fparadis: 
./dev-vict.bin: 1: Syntax error: "&" unexpected (expecting ")")
j-fparadis@j-fparadis-desktop:~/Desktop/Victoria_/Victoria$ ./dev-vict.bin
bash: ./dev-vict.bin: cannot execute binary file

I guess the file was made to be executed under Windows(TM)... so I tried to open it with Wine but it will just open .exe... so I'm somewhat stuck...

Hoping somebody can help...




Jeff

---

### Post by Mornedhel on 2009-11-20
Do not confuse .bin binary executables with .bin CD images. If it is a CD image, you'll need to mount it :

```
sudo mount -t iso9660 /path/to/bin/file /media/cdrom -o loop
```

then browse to /media/cdrom, and use it as a normal CD. Once you're done, to unmount the image :

```
sudo umount /media/cdrom
```

---

### Post by danastasio on 2009-11-20
I always had problems with ./whatever and sudo, try running it just as a normal user and then as root
```
su
./whateverfile.bin
```

---

### Post by j-fparadis on 2009-11-20
Oki,

I tried the command but...

[COLOR=RoyalBlue]j-fparadis@j-fparadis-desktop:~$ sudo mount -t iso9660 ./Desktop/Victoria_/Victoria/dev-vict.bin /media/cdrom -o loop
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/loop0,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so
[/COLOR]
Therefore:

[COLOR=RoyalBlue]j-fparadis@j-fparadis-desktop:~$ dmesg | tail
[   26.248029] intel8x0: clocking to 48000
[   27.649828] 0000:02:09.0: tulip_stop_rxtx() failed (CSR5 0xfc664010 CSR6 0xff972113)
[   27.649842] eth0_rename: Setting full-duplex based on MII#1 link partner capability of 41e1.
[   34.912033] eth0_rename: no IPv6 routers present
[  596.405285] ISOFS: Unable to identify CD-ROM format.
[  983.995069] ISOFS: Unable to identify CD-ROM format.
[ 1188.213625] ISOFS: Unable to identify CD-ROM format.
[ 1296.964172] ISOFS: Unable to identify CD-ROM format.
[ 1412.193056] ISOFS: Unable to identify CD-ROM format.
[ 1624.112063] ISOFS: Unable to identify CD-ROM format.
[/COLOR]
[COLOR=Black]I'm pretty confident, somewhat, that it means some kind of trouble; I just don't get what if is!

Thanks!



Jeff
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-11-20
What does the 'file' command say about this file? In the terminal, type the word "file" followed by a space, and then drag the file to the terminal. Run the result. It should tell us once and for all whether this is a CD image to mount, or whether it's some sort of executable.

---

### Post by j-fparadis on 2009-11-20
j-fparadis@j-fparadis-desktop:~/Desktop/Victoria_/Victoria$ file ./dev-vict.bin
./dev-vict.bin: data

---

### Post by KiD2021 on 2010-01-07
I am having the same problem with .bin files. I have reinstalled Ubuntu on a VM that we use for testing and since this time I have not been able to execute them. I have tried all of the steps previously posted and this is my outcome using the "file" command

"setuplinux.bin: ELF 32-bit LSB executable, Intel 80386, version 1 (SYSV), statically linked, for GNU/Linux 2.2.5, stripped"

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-01-07
> **KiD2021 said:**
> I am having the same problem with .bin files. I have reinstalled Ubuntu on a VM that we use for testing and since this time I have not been able to execute them. I have tried all of the steps previously posted and this is my outcome using the "file" command

"setuplinux.bin: ELF 32-bit LSB executable, Intel 80386, version 1 (SYSV), statically linked, for GNU/Linux 2.2.5, stripped"

Okay, so your file is a program.

Does your file just run in-place, or is it an installer? If it's just a standalone program that runs in-place, do the following (don't press Enter until I say:

```
chmod +x 
```

Put a space after the x, and then drag the file to the terminal to fill in the file path. Switch to the terminal window and hit Enter. Now the file will be marked as runnable. Then drag the file to the terminal again and hit Enter to run it.

If it's an installer, then it needs to be run as root in order to have permission to access the system - so do the same thing but with the "sudo" command before it:

```
sudo chmod a+x <drag file to terminal>
sudo <drag file to terminal>
```

---

