---
title: "10.04 - Need help with boot and login problems"
date: 2010-08-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Bill Wade on 2010-08-10
Here we go!
Problem 1: Most of the time, when I login to gnome, I get the purple screen, but no tool bars, no nothing; just purple screen.  If I login with failsafe gnome, everything looks OK.

Problem 2: Boot works fine the first time or two, then "no partition found" or something like that.  I'll get details for the next reply.

Problem 3:  Initially (first two reinstalls) I could boot to XP.  Now it doesn't seem that I can, if I even get to the menu page (usually I don't get that far; see problem 2, above).

Solutions are appreciated. Thanks.

---

### Post by gloken on 2010-08-10
> **Bill Wade said:**
>  But this ubuntu install is starting to get to me in light of my expectation that it was going to be so much more 'stable' than windows. 

It sounds more like configuration issues than stability issues. Almost everyone has a unique hardware set up, and that means that everyone is going to have their own issues. I've always found that once I'm done screwing around with set up things are appallingly stable in Ubuntu.  

At the danger of sounding like an apologist, the hardware config issues are exacerbated by vendors that don't provide proper driver support! In your case though, it sounds like it's mostly an issue with the grub boot loader. It's hard to diagnose that without information!

And as ajgreeny said, there's an "app store" style repository system that is hands down superior to searching Google and downloading .exe files. Most of what you need should be in there - learn it, love it. (If or when you get past your boot issues and decide to stick with Ubuntu that is.)

Edit: Things changed while I was typing. 

Problem 1 sounds like video drivers to me. What kind of hardware are you running?
Problem 2 sounds like grub boot loader.

---

### Post by Bill Wade on 2010-08-10
Regarding thunderbird; I tried to get it from synaptic package manager, searched and got nothing.  I did get to launchpad.net, joined to get the download, then found out I had to open some kind of project just to get the ubuntu 'approved' thunderbird download.  What in the he double l is that all about?  That's what you call easy?  I then went to mozilla, downloaded, and googled how to install it on ubuntu.  What did I miss regarding "simply use synaptic package manager"?

---

### Post by Bill Wade on 2010-08-10
Like I said before, it works great for the first session, maybe two, then probs.  I have to go play golf now .  Thanks for the responses.  If I can't get it working, I'll post the text of the grub later.  I'm now reading a tutorial on grub 2; ridiculous. 
Thanks.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2010-08-11
> Problem 2: Boot works fine the first time or two, then "no partition  found" or something like that.  I'll get details for the next reply.
If you have more details for this it would be interesting to know if you Cold Boot or Warm Boot and do you use a USB drive ?

What I found out is that its not so much the boot loader at fault here - but the speed that some drives identify themselves at boot time.

How many drives do you have and what do you boot from ...... there is a Bootscript in my footer if you run this and post the results from it - it will give us more information to work on.

We will get you up and running properly ...... it just takes a little time on some machines ...... what is yours a laptop or a Desktop machine ?

---

### Post by Deuce1912 on 2010-08-11
> **Bill Wade said:**
> Here we go!
Problem 1: Most of the time, when I login to gnome, I get the purple screen, but no tool bars, no nothing; just purple screen.  If I login with failsafe gnome, everything looks OK.

I believe this is a bug in the early release. (Happened to me in the beta.) If not then I've only taken a minute of your day. 

When you get to the purple background hit "Alt + F2" and a window should pop up. Type (no quotes) "gnome-panel" and hit enter. Your panels should theoretically show up. 

Then to avoid this problem in the future go to "System > Preferences > Startup Applications and add the "gnome-panel" command. 

I hope I've been of some assistance. Good Luck

---

### Post by Bill Wade on 2010-08-28
I got it running.  Thanks.

---

