---
title: "10.10 netbook edition too heavy for my netbook ;"
date: 2011-04-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by primach on 2011-04-01
Hey guys, i decided to try ubuntu on my netbook i installed the 10.10 netbook version 32bit
my asus 1101 got a z520 1.33 ghtz processor.
Everything is perfect my only issues so far is the perfomance ; i havent changed anything i only downloaded all the updates and my netbook is like a cripple even the mouse laggs sometimes does it matter that i also have windows 7 installed ? would it run better if it was only ubuntu ?should i try the 10.4 version ?is it normal that the system monitor consumes sometimes up to 80% of the processing power ?
Also my other issue is youtube i tried all 3 plugins but no matter what the framerate is terrible i wont even talk about fullscreen... i also tried with totem video played the youtube plugin but after i installed the plugin it needed i keep getting an error on every video "Gstreamer encountered a general supporting library error"
While running windows 7 proffesional everything is smooth i still cant watch youtube videos on full screen but everything else is smooth.

Thanks for your time , i look forward to your replies.

(I am sorry for any typo,english isnt my native language)

---

### Post by mr.farenheit on 2011-04-01
i'm new to the netbook scene too. i found that uninstalling components you don't need may help with performance. it worked for me. also, how have you been installing the plugins and such?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-04-01
Performance is not great on the netbooks, at least IMHO.

I found installing xubuntu or lubuntu was better then the netbook edition, YMMV.

I just finished installing gentoo on my netbook, complete with a tailored (stripped) custom kernel and although yes there is a performance benefit, it is rather modest and probably not worth the effort unless you are really into the gentoo experience.

---

### Post by primach on 2011-04-01
Hey ! thanks for the quick replies i'll try xubuntu btw do you know if there is any difference in perfomance if it's a clean format or if it's dual boot ?do you guys have issues with youtube on your netbooks ?

mr.faren i install them from firefox when i get the pop up that i need the plugins and then i uninstall them from software center to try the others.

EDIT: is there a difference in perfomance between 10.4 and 10.10 versions ?

---

### Post by tm222 on 2011-04-01
I agree with bodhi.zazen. Xubuntu should work better. I've used it on an extremely old computer, and I can still use it.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-04-01
Welcome to the forums Primach!

I'm going to assume "z250" is a typo and you actually have "z520" with the infamous Intel GMA500 "Pouslbo" video chipset. (Use the terminal command 'lspci' if you're not sure.)

Please see this thread for more info: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1229345](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1229345)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-04-01
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> Performance is not great on the netbooks, at least IMHO.

I found installing xubuntu or lubuntu was better then the netbook edition, YMMV.

I just finished installing gentoo on my netbook, complete with a tailored (stripped) custom kernel and although yes there is a performance benefit, it is rather modest and probably not worth the effort unless you are really into the gentoo experience.
I would definitely agree with the **Lubuntu** suggestion.

I have just put it on my Novatech X10 netbook from the UK company of the same name (a rebadged MSI netbook U100?) and it flies, and uses far less battery.  There are a few things to sort out to make it truly usable, like reducing the touchpad "tap for click" sensitivity or turning it off with ```
synclient MaxTapTime=0
```and adding **xfce4-power-manager** in place of gnome-power-manager, which simply does not work in Lubuntu, but those are quickly done and a small price to pay for the speed.

---

### Post by primach on 2011-04-01
Yea it was a typo:( thanks for the link snowpine really helpfull ,wow ajgreeny i'll try lubuntu first then .

You guys are really helpfull thanks again!

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-04-01
> **primach said:**
> Yea it was a typo:( thanks for the link snowpine really helpfull ,wow ajgreeny i'll try lubuntu first then .

You guys are really helpfull thanks again!

Lubuntu uses the same video drivers as Ubuntu. If your video card does not work correctly in Ubuntu, it will not work correctly in Lubuntu/Xubuntu/Kubuntu/etc. Ubuntu should run fine once you install the correct video drivers. Good luck! :)

---

### Post by primach on 2011-04-01
Omg i thought the drivers are installed automatically ? i mean together with the "update" package ?i got this wrong ? :confused: where can i check if there are drivers installed ?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-04-01
> **primach said:**
> Omg i thought the drivers are installed automatically ? i mean together with the "update" package ?i got this wrong ? :confused: where can i check if there are drivers installed ?

See here for more info on GMA500 graphics: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1229345](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1229345)

---

### Post by primach on 2011-04-01
I am so sorry didnt saw the wiki link the first time :( 

Thanks again and sorry for spamming with sily questions.

---

### Post by |{urse on 2011-04-01
```
sudo apt-get purge gnome gdm && sudo apt-get install xfce xdm thunar xarchiver
```

This command will remove gnome and gdm and give you a faster windowmanager, xfce.

---

### Post by primach on 2011-04-02
Hey guys thanks for your help at the end the problem were the drivers i installed them and the perfomance is off the charts :)
I mark the thread as solved, thanks again and sorry i thought that the drivers were installed automatically with the "update package".

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-04-02
> **|{urse said:**
> ```
sudo apt-get purge gnome gdm && sudo apt-get install **xfce** xdm thunar xarchiver
```

This command will remove gnome and gdm and give you a faster windowmanager, xfce.

You would need to install xfce4. There is no xfce package in ubuntu's repos. ;)

---

### Post by cyb3r_sn4k3 on 2011-04-02
Using a window manager like openbox,blackbox.fluxbox etc will save even more resources than using desktop environments like Xfce,lxde etc. But they might be harder to setup though :)

---

