---
title: "K3b"
date: 2011-05-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ryan! on 2011-05-03
When I open up K3b I get this:
No CD/DVD/BD writer found.
K3b did not find an optical writing device in your system. Thus, you will not be able to burn CDs or DVDs. However, you can still use other K3b features such as audio track extraction, audio transcoding or ISO9660 image creation.

How do I fix this? Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by llamabr on 2011-05-03
does your machine have a cd burner?

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2011-05-03
Has it ever worked for you?
 
What version of k3b and Ubuntu are you using?
 
The latest version of k3b no longer uses HAL for device polling, but uses solid.  You may need some more KDE deps, or it may just be a permission issue.  
 
Have you tried using the Settings > Setup System Permissions menu in K3b?

---

### Post by ClientAlive on 2011-05-03
When you get that message do you have an option to "close" or "exit" or something like that - from that message window. If you do is k3b still open behind it?

I've never had that problem but I see that there is an area in k3b that might be useful in this situation. I've attached a few pictures to show where this can be found in k3b.

I'm not an expert with Linux by far (about 5 wks in now) so I won't venture to instruct anyone on what to do once in that part of k3b's settings. Just wanted to show you it is there. I would be very careful to read everything in each of those windows going through; and, if it was me, hang on a bit longer and see if someone else comes along to this thread with some additional input. That's just me though. Maybe you're a little more familiar with the details though.

Hope it helps.

:)

---

### Post by ryan! on 2011-05-03
> **llamabr said:**
> does your machine have a cd burner?

What is this "CD burner" you speak of? Haha... of course it has one and its connected.

> **andrewthomas said:**
> Has it ever worked for you?
 This is the first time I've installed/used it

> What version of k3b and Ubuntu are you using?
  1.91.0 and 10.04, I'm also having the exact same problem in 11.04 and that version is 2.0.2.... same computer different partition though
> Have you tried using the Settings > Setup System Permissions menu in K3b?
I tried but got nowhere.

---

### Post by ryan! on 2011-05-10
bump

---

