---
title: "802.11n / Draft-N   Is it even possible in 8.10?"
date: 2008-12-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Yankee_Fan on 2008-12-08
Hi.  I've been trying for several weeks to get an answer with no luck. I have an HP Pavilion dv4-1028us laptop with an Intel WiFi Link 5100AGN wireless card and I recently converted my laptop to Ubuntu version 8.10 (Intrepid) x86_64.  Everything works great, EXCEPT for one small thing.  My wireless card will not work at 802.11n speeds like it did when running Windows Vista.  My card connects and my router reports it as 802.11g with a max speed of 54 Mb.  Under Windows it was always over 120 Mb and the router reported it as being 802.11n.  

Based on what I've been able to find online, this card is supported using the iwlagn driver which is SUPPOSED to work at 802.11n speeds, but I do not know (or have not been able to find out anywhere) how to switch it to 802.11n.  

Does anyone out there have this card working at 802.11n speeds?  Anyone?  I dont wan't to go back to Windows, but I need the extra speed.

---

### Post by insane_alien on 2008-12-08
i do't have that particular card but i am connected to a wireless router at n speeds. so it is possible.

---

### Post by Yankee_Fan on 2008-12-08
Ok so I know 802.11n is possible, now if only I could find someone who has made this card work in 802.11n  :confused::confused:

---

### Post by Yankee_Fan on 2008-12-11
Bump!  Is there anyone out there using the Intel 5100 wireless card in 802.11 "N" mode?????

---

### Post by JDahl on 2008-12-28
It seems like we have to wait for kernel 2.6.28 for this:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/linux-backports-modules-2.6.27/+bug/276990/comments/154](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/linux-backports-modules-2.6.27/+bug/276990/comments/154)

---

### Post by Yankee_Fan on 2008-12-28
Does anyone have any idea of when 2.6.28 will be available?

---

