---
title: "12.04 &quot;saved session&quot; jumbled my workspaces, can't revert"
date: 2012-05-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by hubbardglutch on 2012-05-14
Hello, I have Ubuntu Studio 12.04 and tried checking the box at shutdown that says "save session for future logins."  I really liked the setup I had in multiple workspaces, so I thought "why not?"  Unfortunately, when I started up again, all the workspaces were smashed into one.  In the top right, only one workspace is shown.  The windows were not only smashed together, but do not function properly.  In the top right, there are no min/max/close symbols, pull-down menus will not allow the mouse cursor to choose an item, I cannot resize, and one window will always stay on top.  

I have tried restarting a few times without that box checked, and have searched for startup options and workspace options that might fix the problem, but have not had any success.  Each time, the same smashed and jumbled session starts up.  I am lost as to how to solve the problem and get back to default.  Thank you for your time!

---

### Post by hubbardglutch on 2012-05-14
sorry, i did search for the solution before posting, but i suppose i should have searched a bit harder because i did in fact find the solution here: 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11935436#post11935436](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11935436#post11935436)  

the solution is in the 3rd post of this thread by maxter.  i responded there to a bit of clarification of the console language he used, but i did solve the problem using his suggestion.

---

