---
title: "9.10 GUI Live works, Install doesn't"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Andrew Buchinger on 2009-11-01
I am BRAND new to Ubuntu and I just installed 9.10, overwriting my 10 day old windows 7 install. I have been toeing arround the edge of the pool of linux for awhile now and finally decided wading isn't the way to get in.
 
So I used unetbootin to put live 9.10 on a USB drive and test it on my machine. I liked what I saw, everything worked smoothly and it even prompted me to install the closed source drivers for my Nvidia 260 Graphics card.
 
So I reformatted one of the TB drives on my system and installed. When I switch my BIOS to boot to it I come to a command line. I researched the error and it appears to be because of a video issue and I have not yet followed the steps to fix it (it's my bedtime) If they don't work I will post in those threads and possible start a new one . . . but,
 
My real question is, why would live work and the actual install from my live USB drive fail to load the GUI. I am just interested in how Ubuntu and linux work not acusatory in any manner. In a few years I swear I will get heavily into coding and not need to ask these questions, but right now my wife would kill me!

---

### Post by Andrew Buchinger on 2009-11-01
IT'S ALIVE!!

problem solved by instructions in the installations thread.

                         **[B]Sticky:**[/B]                                      [COLOR=#980101]**[ubuntu]**[/COLOR]                          [ATI & Nvidia: no X, just blinking on 2.6.31 (Karmic 9.10)]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305459")

Next step is to respectfully ask the devs why they decided to have a graphics driver failure kick you into command line instead of just reverting to the basic driver load used on LIVE.

Please don't flame me for asking that. I am asking it because ubuntu wants to replace windows, and it would be much more marketable if it booted into a quasi safemode on driver failure with a log of what failed. a General user is going to just give up if they are presented with a non GUI nowadays.

---

