---
title: "12.10 Install issues"
date: 2013-04-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by BigZ1981 on 2013-04-21
Okay, so recently, I decided to delve into the world of Linux.  Seeing as how Ubuntu is among the most popular, I decided to give it a go.  Unfortunately, my install keeps crashing.  I booted to the disk & installed from the GUI...I try to reinstall with an erase & nothing.  I'm trying to install as a dual-boot.  Well, now to be a triple boot if successful as I'm trying out LinuxMint for the time being.  What possible reasons could it keep crashing on me?

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2013-04-21
Is Mint working? if yes, what version...

---

### Post by BigZ1981 on 2013-04-21
Mint's working perfectly fine.  I'm actually posting from it right now.  Running 14 Nadia MATE version.  I actually installed this on the partition I was trying to put Ubuntu on.

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2013-04-21
I suspected as much
Issues in Ubuntu are likely down to the effects. KDE version might work better as effects can be switched off (kubuntu)
But Mint is basically Ubuntu. The Mate version is really good and was contrived to appease the Gnome 2 / 3 revolution.

---

### Post by BigZ1981 on 2013-04-21
hmmm....interesting...ok.  I will look into this more tomorrow.  I like Mint, don't get me wrong, but the panel (taskbar?) layout still feels too much like older windows to me...Guess I should try a different desktop from Mate?  Now, running Wubi with Ubuntu 12.04 was pretty nice.  I liked feel of it.  I'll look into trying kubuntu tomorrow.  Any other tips & insight would be greatly appreciated! Thanks for the help. :)

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2013-04-22
kde is very configurable and can be made to look like unity
Remember 13.04 is out this week

---

### Post by BigZ1981 on 2013-04-22
> **carl4926 said:**
> Remember 13.04 is out this week
I can wait for it.  Having my fun with Mint for now. :)

---

