---
title: "Hp Dv3 1075 us"
date: 2009-06-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by seraphim23 on 2009-06-13
Hello everyone, I just bought the above laptop, and I installed 9.04 with a 50gb partition for vista.  Im loving it so far.  however there are some bugs that are happening.  My main issue right now is the audio.  
Im getting nothing right now.  I check to see that everything is un-muted.  On my laptop there are touch controls near the screen for sound, wifi, and playback.  Now my mute control is red, indicating muting, however if I touch it, on the screen the speakers mute and unmute, however the icon on laptop doesnt change to a blue color indicating that it has indeed been unmuted. 
It works normally in Vista, however whenever I boot into ubuntu the mute button is red and stays red no matter if I touch it or not.  Im thinking that this could possible be that the hardware is mutted and its glitching in ubuntu which doesnt allow it to unmute, however the one thing I have with that is that why would it then unmute and mute on the speaker status on screen? any help would be much appreciated.  thanks in advanced.  

~seraph

p.s.  all the dv4 trick that I found on the forum have not worked as of yet

---

### Post by seraphim23 on 2009-06-14
Update:

Well, my headphones work when pluged into the jack, i suppose that I dont have a driver that supports my altec lansing speakers on this thing.  so help anyone? :D it would be greatly appreciated

p.s. one other bug I found is that just about every time that i put the comp to sleep then wake it up, the keyboard is dead, I have to do a hard restart to get it to work again, i have no idea what could be wrong

---

### Post by seraphim23 on 2009-06-15
anyone?? help please? lol like i said the audio is good through the headphones...

---

### Post by seraphim23 on 2009-06-16
ok, so ive been trying to mess around, i tried something that is supposed to be for kubuntu, didnt work :P and now now sound through the headphones.

Ok so by myself ive gotten to the sound troubleshooting page, i know, im stupid. should have gone there first thing, but w/e.  So I got there and I was going through the lists and then I saw the "is your soundcard recognized by alsa" so I went trhough the whole alsa diagonstic, and came up with a web page

[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=9f88a7d6cd8eaf2fcb080e152f2d54466ed35570](http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=9f88a7d6cd8eaf2fcb080e152f2d54466ed35570)

Now as you can see, this diagnostic recognized no soundcard on my system and no modules loaded for it.

I checked the 

aplay -l

in the terminal, and I got the "no soundcard" as well

I also ran this command

"lspci -v | less"

and got the list of everything, and I did however find my audio device there


I got this output

"00:14.2 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA)
        Subsystem: Hewlett-Packard Company Device 1506
        Flags: bus master, slow devsel, latency 0, IRQ 5
        Memory at d2400000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel

so as you can see, im at a loss.  In the troubleshooting maual it says that I might have to go through the BIOS and enable my sound card, well I did go into the BIOS, but I saw no soundcard option.....idk someone have some insight on this?

---

### Post by avilella on 2009-06-20
Can you look at links in the dvxz launchpad group information?
[https://launchpad.net/~dv4z](https://launchpad.net/~dv4z)

---

