---
title: "16.04 Upgrade Tool Question"
date: 2017-06-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sikhandin on 2017-06-11
Hi! I currently have 15.04 installed and can't seem to complete the upgrade process to 16.04.02.

[IMG]http://i1085.photobucket.com/albums/j436/TryUbik/Screenshot1%20from%202017-06-11%20024946_zpslmycmayh.png[/IMG]

Everything seems like a normal upgrade at first, but I seem to be quickly getting stuck when it starts downloading the upgrade tool. The title bar: 'do-release-upgrade'. I apologize, but I've been unable to get a screenshot of this because it just flashes too quickly.

Then I get this below and it's all over. :/

[IMG]http://i1085.photobucket.com/albums/j436/TryUbik/Screenshot2%20from%202017-06-11%20025054_zpsvclaumkf.png[/IMG]

Any thoughts? If I try upgrading from a terminal is it as simple as sudo apt-get upgrade? Would the same download tool be used? Where do I find a different tool? 
Additionally, I have been trying to get the system to upgrade to the current LTS for a while but Software and Updates never seems to recognize the 'Notify me of any new LTS version'. It was only when I thought to change that to 'Notify me any new version' that it finally stopped saying 15.04 was up to date.

Thank you!

---

### Post by LastDino on 2017-06-11
While many would swear that upgrading works well, I personally prefer to do fresh install and therefore would suggest the same. 

Additionally, I prefer to use command line to do update and upgrades.

In your case following command will work
```

sudo do-release-upgrade
```

Okay the upgrade by entering your user password and pressing ‘y’ when prompted.

If problem still persists, I would look into repositories, as older unsupported versions are moved to archive servers. 

Support for 15.04 was stopped long time ago.  So, you may face issues here. 

Why not do fresh install?

---

### Post by sikhandin on 2017-06-11
"Why not do fresh install?" 				

Well, I'm relatively new to linux even though I dual-booted this laptop back in 2013 I think. And so, I'm scared that the grub installation that I got to work so well then could go wrong this time. I read somewhere that an upgrade wouldn't mess with grub. I guess an upgrade seems easier and less prone to break. 
So, not very good reasons really!

---

### Post by LastDino on 2017-06-11
On the contrary, you are likely to face problems with upgrade than fresh install, however, gurb can indeed be problem and you might need to fix it after install. But that is not really a big deal, just 2 min job, if you have windows recovery disk and Ubuntu like disk/usb handy. 

Especially in your case, as this upgrade to 16.04 LTS is done on 15.04, if it was 15.10, it would've been slightly easier. In either case, please keep backups and these two bootable disks/usb ready, you might need them.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2017-06-11
Your problem is that 15.04 only supports an upgrade to 15.10, which is dead too. So you either have to try a double [end of life upgrade]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades") or a fresh install. A fresh install is more likely to work and will clean-up your system. After 17 months without updates your system may be in a somewhat suboptimal shape.

---

### Post by sikhandin on 2017-06-11
Impavidus, thanks for that link. Interesting reading! 
I'm going to have to do the full install it sounds like. But with a grub reinstall I would also need to reinstall my Windows 7 it seems. So there are windows complications there since I've moved just about every semester and I'm not totally sure where my Win7 install discs are. I do have some system images on Seagate HD along with some backups, I'm just a touch nervous about using them.

I'm about to buy a system76 desktop and once I have Wine up on that machine, this dual boot reinstall will be less of a nailbiter I hope. That way I'm not in trouble at work at least!


**"After 17 months without updates your system may be in a somewhat suboptimal shape." 				**

Yeah, I guess I've let it go a little. It's just been so reliable that I haven't thought about it. I know Ubuntu releases updates, but I guess I didn't understand that it's sort of mandatory to upgrade. I'm going to blame Windows, since they have habituated me to be wary of new releases due to VIsta, Win8, etc. ;)

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2017-06-11
It should work without reinstalling Windows, but you better be prepared.

At installation type, choose "something else". Select your Linux partitions and give them the same mount point as they currently have and format them. If you have a /home partition, don't format that and you'll keep your files. Install grub to the same place as it was before. Don't touch the Windows partitions. If the Linux installer properly detects Windows, it should work. And if your Windows is not properly detected, you would have lost your abilty to boot Windows a long time ago during a Linux kernel update. Make sure Windows is not hibernated. That's what I did when moving from 14.04 to 16.04 on a dual boot with WinXP.

---

### Post by LastDino on 2017-06-11
You don't need to reinstall windows, just in most likely hood do boot repair. For which disk can be prepared very easily from the current install. Just google ways for it. 

Both repairing grub and windows boot is not that difficult, but yes, be prepared with backups.

Here it is for windows boot problems
[http://www.digitalcitizen.life/command-prompt-fix-issues-your-boot-records](http://www.digitalcitizen.life/command-prompt-fix-issues-your-boot-records)

---

### Post by Autodave on 2017-06-12
I would think that when you get to the point of it actually installing, you should have as one of your choices, "Replace Ubuntu 15.04" or something to that extent. IF you have that, GRUB will probably not be bothered.

And, I am with the others: I always do a fresh install because my luck with upgrading to a new one usually leads me to a fresh install afterwards. Backup everything.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-06-12
**+1** for fresh installation it works the best

---

