---
title: "7.10 - 8.04 known issues"
date: 2008-05-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tqprvn on 2008-05-27
Hi all

Likely to set the update off pretty soon.

One of my staff did this, had all kinds of issues with Thunderbird and also with Firefox (mostly extension related there).

Will my other software generally survive the move?

What else am I in for?

Running an Acer Aspire laptop, dual celerons, a gig of ram...aware of thread on issues there related to video card drivers.

What else have people found on the upgrade?  Will just use update manager for it.

Matt

---

### Post by oedha on 2008-05-27
my acer aspire is easier to handle in HH instead of GG

---

### Post by dreadh3ad on 2008-05-27
I just attempted to update from 7.10 through the package manager and now Ubuntu refuses to boot.

---

### Post by tqprvn on 2008-05-27
hmm - this has been sitting saying 'searching for obsolete software' for a very very long time.

Getting a little concerned.

---

### Post by Efros on 2008-05-27
Must admit that having updated a few machines from 7.10 to 8.04 and then subsequently installed these same machines from CD the latter seems to give a more robust system.

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-05-27
Just use the Hardy 8.04 installation Disk.  Just remember if you have a /home directory you want to save just set it up in partition manager and do not format /home.

---

### Post by tqprvn on 2008-05-27
> **alienexplorers said:**
> Just use the Hardy 8.04 installation Disk.  Just remember if you have a /home directory you want to save just set it up in partition manager and do not format /home.
may be too late for that now, I have set the update in process, and it is STILL stuck at searching for obsolete software.

Any way to cancel this?

---

### Post by sayakb on 2008-05-27
Better to do a Hardy clean install. My GG-HH upgrade broke HAL.

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-05-27
Just back up your home folder and then abort the upgrade (or just reset the pc).

Boot from cd and do a clean install.

It could be that aborting the upgrade messes up your OS, but you're doing a clean install anyway, so that's not an issue.

---

