---
title: "8.10 DVD suddenly mounts by root"
date: 2009-02-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by frankh on 2009-02-27
A fairly new installation. After a couple of days and some reboots, suddenly when I insert a DVD it mounts and shows on the desktop, but the contents are not accessible. It's obviously mounted by root, although I am of course not logged in (and running Gnome) as root. The DVD cannot be ejected either, since the user cannot unmount it,

The su user can, in a terminal, access the files in /media/cdrom01, and also unmount the DVD.

Any ideas? As I said, it worked normally after installing the system, but suddenly it became like this.

---

### Post by llamabr on 2009-02-27
Hi.  Post the output of 

```
cat /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by frankh on 2009-02-27
Sorry, forgot that :-)

```

/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

```

Looks ok to me...
I've also made sure that the user is in the cdrom group. After that, I am able to eject the DVD's, but not view the contents.

---

### Post by linuxisevolution on 2009-02-27
> **frankh said:**
> Sorry, forgot that :-)

```

/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

```

Looks ok to me...
I've also made sure that the user is in the cdrom group. After that, I am able to eject the DVD's, but not view the contents.

Try unmounting the dvd as root, and as root run chown username:username /media/cdrom0


Replace username with your username in both cases.

---

### Post by Locke_99GS on 2009-02-27
Or, just change *user* in the 4th column to *users*, so that anybody can unmount it, like so:

```

/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 users,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

```

---

### Post by mister_pink on 2009-02-27
> **Locke_99GS said:**
> Or, just change *user* in the 4th column to *users*, so that anybody can unmount it, like so:

```

/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 users,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

```

Are you sure about that? I think thats what "user" means. Its not the name of a group, but one of the options, the default being "nouser"

---

### Post by Locke_99GS on 2009-02-27
> **mister_pink said:**
> Are you sure about that? I think thats what "user" means. Its not the name of a group, but one of the options, the default being "nouser"

Yes sir, I am sure about that. The *user* option allows it to be mounted by anybody, but the same user (or su) must umount it. The *users* option lets any user mount a device, and any other user can umount it.

See *man mount*, describing *-o* arguments.

edit: This is also what I do to my PC's. Having multiple people in the house with their own login's can become a pain when you cannot umount a device that was mounted by somebody else. (change CD's)

---

### Post by mister_pink on 2009-02-28
> **Locke_99GS said:**
> Yes sir, I am sure about that. The *user* option allows it to be mounted by anybody, but the same user (or su) must umount it. The *users* option lets any user mount a device, and any other user can umount it.

See *man mount*, describing *-o* arguments.

edit: This is also what I do to my PC's. Having multiple people in the house with their own login's can become a pain when you cannot umount a device that was mounted by somebody else. (change CD's)
Apologies - I checked man fstab where there's no mention of it, but it will take normal mount options. Never come across that one before. Learn something new everyday...

---

### Post by frankh on 2009-02-28
The problem seems to have solved itself. It was getting late, so I didn't mess around with it anymore yesterday. Today, after starting the system again, it works fine. I _did_ change "user" to "users" though, as that option is more in line with a "windows-like" way of treating removable media.

Thanks for all tips and help.

---

