---
title: "12.04 to 14.04 update, directories missing"
date: 2014-05-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by junkywaffles on 2014-05-12
I'm pretty new to ubuntu. I just upgraded 12.04 to 14.04. Now that I did, I can't save documents. I get an error message every time. It says "The folder's contents cannot be displayed -- Error when getting information for file '/home/cal/05/14': No such file or directory." That's the message I get when I try to save it in the home folder. If I try to save it in documents, I get this. : "Error when getting information for file '/home/cal/Documents/05/14': No such file or directory." I can't even save it in a dropbox or grive folder. What's going on? Is there a way to fix this? I have tried rebooting.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-05-12
What does the output from a terminal say for
```
ls
ls Documents
```

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-05-12
Remove the slash, use:

05_14

---

### Post by junkywaffles on 2014-05-12
> **deadflowr said:**
> What does the output from a terminal say for
```
ls
ls Documents
```
Those give me a list of some of the files and folders.

---

### Post by junkywaffles on 2014-05-12
Well it just started working. I can save files. Thanks anyways.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-05-12
> **junkywaffles said:**
> Those give me a list of some of the files and folders.

Yeah ls lists the contents of the current directory, which in most cases; unless you move into another, is your home folder's top level.
You can see what's actually in what.
And how they are actually read by the system, as opposed to how you think they are read.
Not to sound rude, it's common to misread or write what something actually says.
It doesn't take much to throw off the system. An extra space here, or mis-captialize word there.
It's simply helpful to know what you wrote or have is what you think you have, it's a verification method.
If any of that makes sense.

---

