---
title: "11.04 broadcom 4306 install with no net connection"
date: 2011-06-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-06-22
I just know this has to be already in the forum, but what ever I searched on just turned up nothing.

I installed 11.04 on an old Dell Inspiron 8200 but the wireless doesn't work.  It's a Broadcom 4306, which I seem to remember needs the STA driver.  By default, b43legacy and ssb where loaded.

I installed dkms and the b43 firmware cutter from the LiveCD as per one of the Ubuntu how-to's.  However, the patch and fakeroot folders are not on the LiveCD as indicated in the how-to.  So, I just went with what I had.  Wireless is enabled, but no networks can be found and says firmware is missing yet. 

Went through additional drivers, but nothing comes up Broadcom.

The hardest part of this for me is I have no other way to connect to the internet other than wireless from here in the basement I rent.  The router is upstairs in my brother in-laws' office where I set everything up.  I don't have access to the office - it was sort of a 1-time thing to set up the wireless network for the house.

So, can someone kindly point me to a link that explains how to truely get the BCM4306 working in 11.04 without having any internet access?  I can access the internet on my desktop so I can download things here and take to the laptop on the usb flash drive.

I've tried the bcmwl5 stuff via ndiswrapper - it doesn't work either.

thanks in advance!

---

### Post by bkratz on 2011-06-22
It depends on whether you have the rev 2 or rev 3 version of the BCM4306. The rev 2 uses b43legacy and the rev 3 uses b43, nether uses the STA driver. Here are the two pages that should give you everything you need.

[http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#Known_PCI_devices](http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#Known_PCI_devices)

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx)

Including installing off-line or from downloads on another computer.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-06-22
Thanks!  I'll get a look at those and see if I can get it going.  I found my old closed thread from March when I had the same problem in 10.10 with the same type of adapter on a different laptop I sold.  I sure didn't explain enough in it to understand how it ever got working!  You were the chief source of information in that thread as well, so thank you very much!

I finally got things working via ndiswrapper to where I can see my network, however I can't connect because the driver doesn't support WPA/WPA2.  I know I had to have run into the same problem back in March but have no idea what the heck I did.

I'll be checking the links you provided and post back how things are going.

Thanks again!

Dave

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-06-23
Well, I'm kinda stuck in a loop.  If I use ndiswrapper the device is seen and sees networks, but it doesn't support WPA/WPA2.  When I try the other methods, including the firmware cutter, it doesn't even see the device - network manager has no option at that point about wireless of any kind.  

I guess I'll keep trying things until I either get too frustrated and buy something else or it actually works.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-23
> **wep940 said:**
> Well, I'm kinda stuck in a loop.  If I use ndiswrapper the device is seen and sees networks, but it doesn't support WPA/WPA2.  When I try the other methods, including the firmware cutter, it doesn't even see the device - network manager has no option at that point about wireless of any kind.  

I guess I'll keep trying things until I either get too frustrated and buy something else or it actually works.Hi, I have that card in a laptop I have not upgraded it to unity but, on it I just had the internet cable plugged in and when you boot the system you shows you have restricted drivers and it installs. On the older version of ubuntu I had to manually compile it but I have upgraded about three times and every time by the method I mentioned. For that to work you will have to purge all drivers you have tried to install by ndiswrapper and regular means first, I may have had to install the firmware from synaptic but I do not think so. But natty may have changed I am not sure about that, but if you have to do it manually I will give a link for that.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10796508&postcount=44](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10796508&postcount=44)
The section for your card is down a ways but it is there with directions of how to install it, again all the old way you tried have to be completely gone, as long as you know the name you can use this command and it will get rid of the configuration files as well.
```
sudo apt-get --purge remove packagename
```It looks like there is a problem with the drivers for your card that was available from additional drivers, so you will most likely have to do it manually.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-06-23
Thanks for the reply.  Yep - I wanted to connect via a hard wire and just do the apt-get update and then the check of additional drivers, as that is how things have worked best for me as well.  Right now I don't have access to the router to hard-wire a connection, so I've been trying the old fashioned way.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2011-06-23
I don't know if it works for your specific model, but for my BCM4312 I always enable it in the live session so that it automatically enables it in the installed session. This way I never need to plug in because the LiveCD has the firmware and drivers. I just boot the live session, activate the driver, and instead of restarting when it tells me to, I just modprobe the driver by ```
sudo modprobe wl
``` which in your case would be ```
sudo modprobe b43
``` (or b43legacy, whichever yours needs) Then I perform the install and it pulls all the updates and everything right from wireless.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-06-23
Thanks for the reply.  Unfortunately it doesn't work that way for the 4306.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-06-24
Finally got it solved - apparently the downloads mentioned in the other posts and Wiki's I've gone through must have omitted something.  I solved the problem using the information in this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10975241#post10975241](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10975241#post10975241)

Thanks everyone for your input!

---

