---
title: "[12.10] After logging in, there's a black screen and my cursor, nothing else!"
date: 2013-01-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pranay.gp on 2013-01-03
Hey!

I've been using Ubuntu(12.10) for a long time, and recently, my Ubuntu went through yet another update.

The whole update prompt showed up, following by a password prompt, and finally the good ol' progress bar...

Everything went well, and later on, I shut down my computer.

The next day, I turned my PC on, went to the login screen. I went ahead, and logged in, but after that, all I could see was a black screen, and my cursor!

I checked the forums, and got various tips, none of which worked...

Now I'm stuck with an Ubuntu installation that's completely useless.

One more thing:

I even tried logging in through Guest, but same problem! :\

My Computer Specs:
Motherboard: Intel DG41WV
Processor: Intel Core 2 Quad Q6600 @ 2.40GHz
Graphics: Intel G41 Express Chipset
RAM: Dual Channel, DDR3 2*2GB (4096 MBytes)
HDD: Seagate 500GB SATA (Sorry, can't get more on this)

---

### Post by windscape on 2013-01-03
Hi,

Since you didn't mention what steps exactly you already tried, could you try the tips listed in the thread here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535) and let us know if they help or not?

---

### Post by pranay.gp on 2013-01-03
Hey,
Really appreciate the help,

Infact, I've never seen that thread before, but thanks a ton anyways

However, I'm not a total genius, so I didn't quite understand the tips given there.

Could you please guide me through it?

Cheers,
Pranay

---

### Post by pranay.gp on 2013-01-03
I tried the tips on that thread, but no help

To be a little more precise about my problem, after I log in, I can see a black screen and my cursor. Plus, importantly, I was able to see a login screen, hence I'm sure Ubuntu is rendering properly, and also pretty sure that there's no problem with the drivers (Otherwise I shouldn't even get a login screen, right?).

Anywho, another (probably) important thing is that, after logging in, I can hit <ctrl><alt><1> and get up a recovery console.

The only thing that doesn't load is my actual GUI desktop

Lastly, I ran unity from the recovery console:

It went till loading OpenGL or something (dont remember exactly) and then gets stuck, but when I revert to <ctrl><alt><7> , I get my Desktop Background back and my cursor...

But no icons, or dash or anything....

Lemme run it again, and get you the exact response I got (maybe it'll make sense to you)

:)

EDIT: Here's EXACTLY what happened:

First time I run unity, it went through a few commands, got stuck at OpenGL for a few seconds, then zoomed throught many more lines of code, and ended up with this:

> ERROR 2012-01-03 20.51.23 unity.launcher.Icon TrashLauncherIcon.cpp:62 Could not create file monitor for trash url: Operation not supported
*** glibc detected *** compiz: malloc(): memory corruption: 0x09c861d6 ***

After that. back at <ctrl><alt><7> :
Desktop Background + Cursor

So back to the terminal again, I had to hit Ctrl+C to get back again,

now, I typed unity again, and this was the output:

> WARNING: no DISPLAY variable set, setting it to :o
compiz (core) - Info: Loading plugin: core
compiz (core) - Info: Starting plugin: core
unity-panel-service: no process found


so now I did a "sudo service lightdm restart" :

> X10: fatal IO error 4 (Interrupted system call) on X server ":0"
after 131 requests (130 known processed) with 0 events remaining.
lightdm stop/waiting
lightdm start/running, process 2852

Im back at the login screen, and I login again, now Im back to black screen (Yes, I lost the Desktop Background as well)

So, once again, I try unity (same response as last time):

> WARNING: no DISPLAY variable set, setting it to :o
compiz (core) - Info: Loading plugin: core
compiz (core) - Info: Starting plugin: core
unity-panel-service: no process found


And still a black screen! :\

---

