---
title: "8.1 Desktop Edition install/run but no desktop!"
date: 2008-12-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cubenz on 2008-12-29
Hi,

I eagerly unwrapped my 8.1 CD today, and run 'in windows' and from the CD, but neither option gives me a graphical desktop - they both dump me to the command line.

This is on a 5 year old Acer Aspire running XP Home.

Any suggestions as to how to proceed.

Thanks

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2008-12-29
Post your computer specs, beyond it's age and model. What's the CPU, RAM, graphics?

---

### Post by cubenz on 2008-12-29
Hi,

Thanks for responding:

Acer Aspire 1350 
Mobile Athlon XP 2600+
VIA/S3G KM400/KN400 Display Adapter
30G Disk, Ubuntu installed on 9G 'F' Drive
2G RAM (Shared with Display, XP reports 1.96G Available)
XP SP 3

I had SUSE 9.0 running on it a long time ago, but canned that and wanted to try Ubuntu.

cubenz

---

### Post by xjcannonx on 2008-12-30
is it the sever edition? if it is try this command```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

If its not then maybe try this```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2008-12-30
What exactly happens when you boot? Do you see the live cd menu? Do you get any errors?

---

### Post by cubenz on 2009-01-08
Thanks for the suggestions - been away for a few days!

> **xjcannonx said:**
> is it the sever edition? if it is try this command```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

If its not then maybe try this```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

No difference - still just get returned to the command line.

> **mikewhatever said:**
> What exactly happens when you boot? Do you see the live cd menu? Do you get any errors?

Booting from the Ubuntu 'partition', I get the Ubuntu logo for a while (something can drive the screen OK), and then the version/MOTD text and the command line - no errors.

Does gdm have an error log?

Thanks

---

### Post by cubenz on 2009-01-08
duplicate deleted

---

### Post by cubenz on 2009-01-08
duplicate deleted

---

### Post by tantares on 2009-01-14
Hello, I'm experiencing a similar problem having an Aspire 1350 (1355LC) too. Booting from the CD (Desktop Ubuntu 8.1) sometimes ends up on command line level. This does not happen everytime I boot interrestingly! 
I do have further instabilities. When Ubuntu comes up normally, my Wirleless USR11 card (5410 PCMCIA type) is sometimes working fine but yet another time I can't get it to run. The hardware is fine, as I'm able to use everything in XP and also with Knoppix.

BTW: Did not succeed to boot 8.04 from CD on this machine.

Any hints?

---

### Post by Duncan Bradley on 2009-01-19
I have had a similar problem. Gnome is running, but on the external monitor. If you plug in a monitor, it will be there. Now, I'd like to know how to make it run on the LCD screen instead! Any one know?

There appears to be an X-org config, but 8.1 seems to do away with it, and nothing I tried seems to work. I did see a posting somewhere where someone suggested  installing 7.1, then upgrading. Haven't had the time to try this yet.

---

### Post by cubenz on 2009-01-27
Any Ubuntu experts out there like to help us de-window ourselves?

---

### Post by cubenz on 2009-01-27
Any Ubuntu Gurus willing to help us?

It is this type of install issue that prevents people from making the switch to Linux.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-01-27
When you're booted to the CLI, try running this command
```
sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude install xserver-xorg-video-openchrome
```

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-01-28
The first thing I would do is (gasp!) edit the xorg.conf file and set the video adapter to "vesa".  The Via/S3 IGP is not that great, and to really use it you need to install the driver first.  My old gateway laptop from a few years ago had that IGP, and I had to go to vesa first in xorg.conf in order to get the GUI.  From there I went to openchrome to get a driver and instructions for installing.

Dave :)

---

### Post by cubenz on 2009-01-29
> **oldos2er said:**
> When you're booted to the CLI, try running this command
```
sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude install xserver-xorg-video-openchrome
```

Thanks for the suggestion - no network at this point!

---

### Post by cubenz on 2009-01-29
> **anewguy said:**
> The first thing I would do is (gasp!) edit the xorg.conf file and set the video adapter to "vesa".  The Via/S3 IGP is not that great, and to really use it you need to install the driver first.  My old gateway laptop from a few years ago had that IGP, and I had to go to vesa first in xorg.conf in order to get the GUI.  From there I went to openchrome to get a driver and instructions for installing.

Dave :)

OK.

I found the file : /etc/ something or other - it didn't have a Video Adapter section, so I did 'man xorg.conf' and laughed at the section on Video Adapter.

Please can you let me know what changes to make to xorg.conf.

Thanks

Quentin

---

