---
title: "cannot start  XP from 2nd drive, no menu.lst file"
date: 2010-04-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dustysfriend on 2010-04-05
Hello, 
After installing ubuntu on sda I cannot start existing windows from sdb.
I found out that a file /boot/grub/menu.lst has to be changed, but I do not find a file with this name. Is there a tool to generate it?
Or is grub 2 working in another way and I only found threads concerning an older version of grub?
Nevertheless, I found boot-info-script and got the following information:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Boot Info Script 0.55    dated February 15th, 2010                    

============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #1 for /boot/grub.
 => Windows is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb

sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 9.10
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda5: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sdb1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows XP
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  Windows XP
    Boot files/dirs:   

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Platte /dev/sda: 160.0 GByte, 160041885696 Byte
255 Köpfe, 63 Sektoren/Spuren, 19457 Zylinder, zusammen 312581808 Sektoren
Einheiten = Sektoren von 1 × 512 = 512 Bytes
Disk identifier: 0x3241731b

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1    *             63   303,532,109   303,532,047  83 Linux
/dev/sda2         303,532,110   312,576,704     9,044,595   5 Extended
/dev/sda5         303,532,173   312,576,704     9,044,532  82 Linux swap / Solaris


Drive: sdb ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Platte /dev/sdb: 250.1 GByte, 250059350016 Byte
255 Köpfe, 63 Sektoren/Spuren, 30401 Zylinder, zusammen 488397168 Sektoren
Einheiten = Sektoren von 1 × 512 = 512 Bytes
Disk identifier: 0x90947f96

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sdb1    *             63   488,375,999   488,375,937   7 HPFS/NTFS


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/sda1        e0cfe225-40b5-4815-a937-dd76efb42c68   ext4                                     
/dev/sda5        027cd56f-11b3-4fad-bf15-803100d52a54   swap                                     
/dev/sdb1        08CC9EEACC9ED0F4                       ntfs       WXP2009                       

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/sda1        /                        ext4       (rw,errors=remount-ro)
/dev/sr0         /media/cdrom0            udf        (ro,nosuid,nodev,utf8,user=micha)


=========================== sda1/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,1)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set e0cfe225-40b5-4815-a937-dd76efb42c68
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-20-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    set quiet=1
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set e0cfe225-40b5-4815-a937-dd76efb42c68
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-20-generic root=UUID=e0cfe225-40b5-4815-a937-dd76efb42c68 ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-20-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-20-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set e0cfe225-40b5-4815-a937-dd76efb42c68
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-20-generic root=UUID=e0cfe225-40b5-4815-a937-dd76efb42c68 ro single 
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-20-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    set quiet=1
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set e0cfe225-40b5-4815-a937-dd76efb42c68
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=e0cfe225-40b5-4815-a937-dd76efb42c68 ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set e0cfe225-40b5-4815-a937-dd76efb42c68
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=e0cfe225-40b5-4815-a937-dd76efb42c68 ro single 
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
if [ ${timeout} != -1 ]; then
  if keystatus; then
    if keystatus --shift; then
      set timeout=-1
    else
      set timeout=0
    fi
  else
    if sleep --interruptible 3 ; then
      set timeout=0
    fi
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

=============================== sda1/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=e0cfe225-40b5-4815-a937-dd76efb42c68 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda5 during installation
UUID=027cd56f-11b3-4fad-bf15-803100d52a54 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

=================== sda1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


   6.0GB: boot/grub/core.img
   6.0GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
    .5GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
    .7GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-20-generic
    .5GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic
    .6GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-20-generic
    .7GB: initrd.img
    .5GB: initrd.img.old
    .6GB: vmlinuz
    .5GB: vmlinuz.old
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
thanks for any help configuring my grub.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-04-05
With GRUB2, you often don't need to manually add anything to provide multi-boot access.  

Setup your machine to boot from the Ubuntu drive.  

Then, once in Ubuntu, open a terminal and enter "sudo update-grub".

It will search your machine for kernels and OS boot loaders -- and if all goes well, should add an entry to your GRUB menu for XP.  You will see that entry when you reboot.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-05
If sdb1 is/was your XP install it is missing boot files. It shows none.

This is my entry:
Operating System:  Windows XP
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot.ini /ntldr /NTDETECT.COM

Was this a data partition and you had XP on sda?

---

### Post by dustysfriend on 2010-04-08
Hello Mark and oldfred,

thank you for help.

the option with sudo update-grub does not help. It does not find my windows:
---
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-20-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-20-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
done
---
but I have an idea what it can be:
Originally I had W2K at sda and WXP at sdb and W2K at sda was installed first.
Now I installed Ubuntu on sda. Probably my ntloader was at sda....
I tried Supergrub meanwhile and supergrup trying to start windows said that there is no ntloader and I should restart my computer. That is why I think that I destroyed my ntloader installing ubuntu.
Now I'll try to copy a ntloader to my sdb, follow your suggestions and will see what happens.

---

### Post by dustysfriend on 2010-04-08
After my trial....:(

this was not enough, the system is starting in the same way as before.
I tried to copy the ntdetect.com to sda (using drag and drop) but I didn't succeed. No rights to copy to /ntldr/ntdetect.com. How can I copy as "sudo"?
Where do I have to put my ntloader?

Does update-grub search on all hdd's? Or do I have to tell where to search and if so - how?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-08
IF your sdb is a windows install you will have to do a full repair. I would make it the first drive in BIOS, then do the repairs. Windows likes to be first and grub will make it think its first when you switch it back.

To repair windows with mounting issues from your Windows XP CD - Do not run fixMBR unless you want windows boot loader in the MBR.
fixboot C: 
chkdsk C: /R
[http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/chkdsk.mspx?mfr=true](http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/chkdsk.mspx?mfr=true)
Thread with this and other repair suggestions
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1393848](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1393848)
Check disk from CD - WinXP recovery console - menu shown with example
[http://kb.wisc.edu/helpdesk/page.php?id=5097](http://kb.wisc.edu/helpdesk/page.php?id=5097)

Yes your boot files were in the first install of windows:

Multibooters, Pictures here worth 1000+ words
[http://www.multibooters.co.uk/multiboot.html](http://www.multibooters.co.uk/multiboot.html)

---

### Post by dustysfriend on 2010-04-10
Hello again,

now I followed oldfred's recommendations for reinstalling Win.
Some mysterious things happened:
The windows repair program asks me first, on which windows instance I wanted to log on and offered me my lost windows xp. I could log on, the system also accepted my admin password and I could do what oldfred told, fixmbr, fixboot, files copy, all ok, and at last I started bootcfg. Bootcfg only found the image of an Bart PE that I that I have somewhere on my system, and offered me to select it, but not the Windows, where I was logged in - curious.
Now I am studying the "Guide to the Multiboot Process" to find out more, I'm not through yet.
I think I should now try to reinstall my windows, maybe there is a repair option within the installation process. What do you think, is there another way to go before?
Maybe the reason for my missing success is that I have an asus mainboard, where I cannot chose the booting drive between my 2 S-ATA drives. They need an asus driver that came with the board and then they appear as SCSI drive. If I select this drive as booting device, the bios starts from the 1st S-ATA drive. I cannot start from the 2nd.
Maybe 1st I swap the hardware of both drives...?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-10
Computers always boot from primary master in BIOS or in the old days the primary IDE channel with the drive jumpered as master. Most BIOS with SATA support let you select primary master. Is your BIOS the latest version?

I thought the windows fixmbr did everything but:
I had this in my notes, not sure what it does:

XP CD fixboot 
[http://www.ehow.com/how_4891476_reinstall-xp-bootloader.html](http://www.ehow.com/how_4891476_reinstall-xp-bootloader.html)
Can you boot into Ubuntu? If so you can mount your Windows drive and navigate to C:\windows\ServicePackFiles\i386 folder and copy
ntdetect.com and ntldr to root of C:\. 

You should be able to copy files with the liveCD with sudo but I do not think there is a password.

---

### Post by dustysfriend on 2010-04-10
... additionally I tried what happens calling update-grub...
it found the windows, grub brings now a menue to select the system to be started,
offering also the windows, but if I chose the windows I only get the info that the ntldr is missing:sad:..... and reboot.
Now I went to another computer and looked for the place and size of ntldr, boot.ini and ntdetect.com and found out 
that I copying the ntldr, got only an epty file with size 0 Byte.

So now I copied the 3 files from the 2nd computer to the same place in my windows, booted my PC aaaaaand the winner is - :razz: ME!!

Thank you very much for your help, I'm gonna mark my thread as solved.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-10
Fantastic, glad you got it working. 

I thought the windows repair would have copied the correct files if they were missing but obviously not.

---

