---
title: "9.04 Ubuntu 64 alternate install CD a step back compared to 8.04/8.10"
date: 2009-06-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pablolie on 2009-06-13
i have a PC running an Asus P5Q-EM motherboard which supports RAID configurations directly. My main drive is a 500GB mirrored RAID-1 config, running Vista 64.

I used to run a dual boot configuration, because the alternate 64 8.04 CD installed very smoothly, and i Had Vistra 64 and Ubuntu 64 running in a great dual boot config. The upgrade to 8.10 went great.

The upgrade to 9.04 broke it all, the startup was stuck. And now installing from the alternate 9.04 64 CD will not work - it gets stuck and report gibberish as it tries to activate the RAID 1 drive (which 8.04 had no issue with) (as in warning about code being HIGHLY EXPERIMENTAL and then getting stuck - the hell I am going to trust it to reconfigure my main partition). Again, this is on a configuration that installed dual boot with 8.04 like a dream: Intel E8600, 8GB of RAM, and a main RAID-1 boot drive.

I am not sure why the 9.04 broke, and what went missing, but I just wanted to report that 9.04 lost some functionality, and that it is a shame and sadly is not a showcase for the reliability of the Ubuntu path. Support should not have been discontinued -especially for a configuration that is still very much up to date.

This leaves me wondering whether it is worth installing 8.04 again on my main machine, since for all I know the next LTD based on 9.04 will be broken again and whatever work I invest into the reinstall will be for naught.

So for now I am forced to abandon the Linux path on my main machine, which is a shame, because I am sure no Microsoft fan, but at lteast they don't discontinue support for running configurations as harshly (and potentially disastrously).

---

### Post by 123456789123456789123456 on 2009-06-13
were you using the alternet install cd?  why, was the live cd not working for you?  you said that upgrade from 8.10 failed, this could be because of an error in the 8.10 code, could be an error while trying to access one of the servers, either because it went down, too much trafic, causing time out, or loss of internet connection.  You can reinstall 8.04 that is perfectly fine, the next long term release candidate will be 10.04.  you can upgrade directly from 8.04 to 10.04 when it comes out, though you may have several problems with that.  I suggest that you find a copy of 8.10 cd, live or alternate, and do an install that way.  if the cd checks out fine, then you should not have any problems upgrading to 9.04 from 8.10 fresh install.  I would also, to try this, redownload the 9.04 cd.  It is possible that the disk itself was damaged, check sums could be off.

---

### Post by pablolie on 2009-06-13
> **123456789123456789123456 said:**
> were you using the alternet install cd?  why, was the live cd not working for you?  you said that upgrade from 8.10 failed, this could be because of an error in the 8.10 code, could be an error while trying to access one of the servers, either because it went down, too much trafic, causing time out, or loss of internet connection.  You can reinstall 8.04 that is perfectly fine, the next long term release candidate will be 10.04.  you can upgrade directly from 8.04 to 10.04 when it comes out, though you may have several problems with that.  I suggest that you find a copy of 8.10 cd, live or alternate, and do an install that way.  if the cd checks out fine, then you should not have any problems upgrading to 9.04 from 8.10 fresh install.  I would also, to try this, redownload the 9.04 cd.  It is possible that the disk itself was damaged, check sums could be off.

no, the update from 8.10 failed because, as it was successfully completed and the computer restarted, it would no longer recognize the boot drive. a problem that remains consistent in 9.04's alternate CD's abiluty to install. 

i have also tried 3 different 9.04 64 bit CDs, both live and alternate. i always do the install CD check before i attempt to install. the behavior is consistent: the support for various RAID configurations *is* undoubtetdly broken - and there are enough other messages in the forums that attest to that. first the install states the code is HIGHLY EXPERIMENTAL, and then it hangs as it further tries to scan the drives.

i just wanted to provide very specific spec feedback on my configuration as community feedback. i am done trying for now. both the 64 live CD and the alternate CD do *not* work on the Asus P5Q-EM motherboard with RAID-1 that Vista 64 support without a hickup, and that previously worked just fine.

---

