---
title: "14.04 - Cannot put ANYTHING on the  Desktop"
date: 2015-04-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rick_pizzi on 2015-04-03
I've just updated to 14.04 from 12.10. I managed to put desktop shortcuts, pictures, folders, etc. on the desktop in 12.10. Now in 14.04 NOTHING can be put on the desktop. I've looked on the internet for solutions to this but nothing works.

This should be a simple procedure like using gnome's  'launch creator' thingee. In fact that is what I used in 12.10.

How can I get gnome back. Unity is terrible!!

Thanks for any help.

R

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2015-04-03
> How can I get gnome back.
```
sudo apt-get install gnome-panel
```
Reboot, then at the login screen, click on the icon and choose 'Flashback (metacity)'.

---

### Post by rick_pizzi on 2015-04-04
Thanks for your reply.

That didn't work out either.

Is there any way to make a desktop shortcut? Put a folder on desktop? 

R

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-04-04
If you right click on the desktop does it allow you to create new folder/new document,et cetera?
Or does nothing happen?

---

### Post by GrouchyGaijin on 2015-04-04
Just out of curiosity do you have a folder called Desktop inside your home folder?  If so, what happens when you make a new folder inside that Desktop folder?

---

### Post by newb85 on 2015-04-04
I'm running 14.04 with no modifications to Unity and no gnome-panel or other DE installed.  If I right-click on my desktop, I have options to create a new file or folder there.
No, there's nothing for shortcuts, but I'm pretty sure I could achieve that using symlinks.  (Sorry, I have no experience here, because I've never had a use for a shortcut on my desktop.)

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2015-04-04
Have you checked for broken packages?
```
sudo apt-get -f install
```
Any errors?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-04-04
Unity is not new to 14.04. You had it in 12.10. So, what did you do to get what you call "gnome" back when using 12.10?" In 12.04 people installed gnome fallback but in 14.04 we install gnome session flashback. It is in the software centre. We get 2 extra login options - Gnome Flashback (Compiz) and Gnome Fleshback (Metacity). Those who really like that old Gnome 2 panel look can install the new Ubuntu flavour of Ubuntu Mate.

[https://ubuntu-mate.org/](https://ubuntu-mate.org/)

Personally, I see no need for icons on the desktop. The combination of the Launcher and the Dash does what I need. It is possible to get an application launcher on the desktop. I think that we have to create a .desktop file for the application. I have never done it myself. So, I cannot say how it is done. But this wiki page might help.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UnityLaunchersAndDesktopFiles](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UnityLaunchersAndDesktopFiles)

It also has information about editing the entries in the Unity Launcher, for those interested in doing that.

Regards.

---

### Post by GrouchyGaijin on 2015-04-04
> **newb85 said:**
> 
No, there's nothing for shortcuts, but I'm pretty sure I could achieve that using symlinks. 

Maybe I do not understand.  What is it that you expect to see when you right click the desktop?
I see the screen shot below when I right click mine.
[IMG]https://docs.google.com/uc?id=0B05fj21T_0AtWmFPdUVObUstNnc&export=download[/IMG] 
There is no shortcut for making a link.

---

### Post by GrouchyGaijin on 2015-04-04
**[COLOR=#ff0000]OOPS - I see Newb85 was replying and saying that he too has no shortcut link.[/COLOR]**

---

### Post by kostkon on 2015-04-04
Copy any .desktop files you want from /usr/share/applications or ~/.local/share/applications to your Desktop folder and it should work.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-04-04
If you don't get the new folder/what-have-you pop-up window shown in post #9, then you most likely do not have show-desktop-icons enabled; set to true.
You can try setting them with either these gsettings line(s)
to check current state:
```
gsettings get org.gnome.desktop.background show-desktop-icons
```
true=on, false=off
to reset to on:
```
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.background show-desktop-icons true
```

Or use the graphical application dconf-editor; needs to be installed.
(With the dconf-editor, just follow the path shown in the command, relatively easy, just toggle the check box for the show-desktop-icons)

After setting the desktop to show icons, at least anything placed in the Desktop folder should show.

---

### Post by dcsoldschool53 on 2015-04-07
I had this same problem, and I had found a video on YouTube by sammondo21 that had helped me. The first thing, it told me to do, was open the software center. In search, type in file manager. Here we are going to install a different file manager from the default one that Ubuntu uses. Dolphin, Thunar, or File Manager PCManFM are good ones, so choose only one of these to install. 

After you have install your new manager, let try to add a icon to desktop. In your new file manager, go to /usr/share/applications. Right click on any icon in that folder and click copy. Then go to your Desktop and right click again. This time you will paste the icon on your Desktop. 

I hope this helps.:guitar:

---

### Post by bregma2 on 2015-04-07
The "desktop" under Unity is actually a Nautilus window.  If you right-click the desktop and see the menu above, then Nautilus is running and you should be able to drag an icon to the desktop and it should stay.  If you can't do that, there is probably something wrong with your local configuration.

Try logging in with the Guest account and see if it works from there.

---

### Post by rick_pizzi on 2015-04-24
[SOLVED] :p :p

Thanks all.

I finally got gnome flashback/metacity to work. I'm much happier now that I have control of the desktop again. I just hope Ubuntu people will quit trying to "improve" things like this!!

R

---

