---
title: "8.10 - Embedded remote control characteristics"
date: 2008-12-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by adrian.todireanu on 2008-12-29
It's been a couple of weeks since I entered the "Ubuntu World" and I'm a complete Linux-illiterate, to say at least.

I have:
[INDENT]Asus P4s800D
P4 dual processor 3.00 GHz
Enough RAM
MSI NVidia GeForce FX 5200
Winfast TV 2000 XP ([COLOR="Red"]card=34 tuner=43[/COLOR], _manually configured to work_, after reading this [_[COLOR="Blue"]THREAD[/COLOR]_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=647129"), system initially reported [COLOR="Magenta"]tuner=5[/COLOR] in [COLOR="Green"]dmesg[/COLOR]) - thanks [**[COLOR="DarkGreen"]nikoPSK[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=378521")
Y0400052 Remote Control
[/INDENT]
The only thing I couldn't get configured is my remote control, that came with the TV - tuner card.
I tried every single post I found on the Internet, about installing and configuring LIRC, but no luck. More than that, I managed to crash the whole thing a couple of times and had to re - install (including the Gates OS ;) ). So I said "NO" to LIRC.
The thing is that my remote control works without LIRC, except a few buttons, so, I guess, Ubuntu has embedded support for it. It even displays a box with a speaker and shows the volume level, whenever I press the [COLOR="DarkOrange"]**VOL+**[/COLOR] and [COLOR="DarkOrange"]**VOL-**[/COLOR], while changing volume level. Hence, I find it rather weird to go through complicated installations of extra applications to get it working. Why can't I just run a configuration of the already built-in features? How do I configure the system to work with the unused buttons?
What I need to know is how to make all the buttons on my remote control work. I don't need them to work with just a certain application (like tvtime), I'm satisfied with them sending commands to the focused application/window, and, maybe, a windows switch (like ALT+TAB in Windows) button, and some dedicated buttons for opening three, most used and "remote control"-controllable applications.
Is it that hard? For an experienced Linux Rocket Scientist, of course, not for me!!! :D

---

### Post by BilliShere on 2008-12-29
hey man im in the same boat as you... i got an  HP remote control instead that came with my laptop...in an effort to configure it...lirc screwed it up even more. before it use to work without lirc and now... its even worse... :( nothing works at all..(4 the remote that is)

---

### Post by adrian.todireanu on 2009-01-02
[FONT="Arial"]:(
It's final, I give up. Could be something related to my systems configuration, but nothing seems to make peace between LIRC and my Leadtek Winfast TV 2000 XP card.
My remote cannot be configured to work properly, using LIRC, on my system.
Although it works _without_ LIRC, as a *[COLOR="Green"]logicaldevice[/COLOR]*, namely a **[COLOR="Blue"]keyboard[/COLOR]**, it won't even sneeze when any of the LIRC package components tries to get it's attention.
[COLOR="DarkSlateGray"]irrecord[/COLOR], [COLOR="DarkSlateGray"]irexec[/COLOR], [COLOR="DarkSlateGray"]irxevent[/COLOR] etc. do not work. [COLOR="DarkSlateGray"]gnome-lirc-properties[/COLOR] gives a nasty error: [COLOR="Red"]Too many values to unpack[/COLOR], and quits.
I even tried to make the system ignore the input from the **[COLOR="Teal"]bttv ir[/COLOR]**, by following a thread that guided me to make a **[COLOR="DarkOliveGreen"]remote.fdi[/COLOR]** file, (in [COLOR="Magenta"]/usr/share/hal/fdi/preprobe/20thirdparty[/COLOR]) so that [COLOR="DarkRed"]hal[/COLOR] doesn't make a "tight grip" on the device, making it unavailable to other applications. It didn't work, although it did show as an "Ignored Device" in [COLOR="Indigo"]lshal[/COLOR].
Another thing I tried was to "remap" the keys of this "*keyboard*", as seen by the system, but [COLOR="Indigo"]xev[/COLOR] doesn't see the UP and Down keys either, and I'm not sure it won't mess up the real keyboard.
I'm thinking of building a home made receiver and disconnecting the "eye" of the tuner card, but I would have to reconnect it each time I boot into Windows. (or maybe using that **[COLOR="DarkOliveGreen"]remote.fdi[/COLOR]** file thing would save me the trouble)
Maybe the best thing to do is expect the next Ubuntu release and see if they've got it working.
[/FONT]:confused:

---

### Post by adrian.todireanu on 2009-01-17
Latest updates:
1. Reinstalled [COLOR="Red"]lirc[/COLOR] and edited [COLOR="Blue"]/usr/share/hal/fdi/preprobe/20thirdparty/lirc.fdi[/COLOR] from 
[COLOR="Magenta"]<match key="info.product" contains_ncase="saa7131 ir">[/COLOR] 
to 
[COLOR="Magenta"]<match key="info.product" contains_ncase="bttv ir">[/COLOR], 
and now the remote control no longer acts as a keyboard.
[COLOR="Red"]irrecord[/COLOR] shamefully fails, after babbling something about not being able to _[COLOR="DarkOliveGreen"]get file information for /dev/lirc[/COLOR]_, and foolishly asking me if [COLOR="Red"]lircd[/COLOR] is running. 
[COLOR="Red"]gnome-lirc-properties[/COLOR] or the "**Infrared Remote Control**" entry from the **SYSTEM** menu fails with a "Too many values to unpack" error.
[COLOR="Red"]lirc[/COLOR] "kinda" works. 
2. Actually, it's not [COLOR="Red"]lirc[/COLOR] that works, but [COLOR="Red"]inputlirc[/COLOR], which reads ir events and outputs them as keys in the KEY_* format. [COLOR="Red"]irexec[/COLOR] and [COLOR="Red"]irw[/COLOR] both respond but not all buttons work. As an irony, now the CHANNEL_UP and CHANNEL_DOWN work, but not the numbers. Before this, the numbers worked but not the channel controls. In all, of approx. 50 buttons, only 9 work.
3. I actually managed to make something of them, via [COLOR="Blue"]~/.lircrc[/COLOR] (attached), pointing to a [COLOR="Blue"]~/.lirc/irexec[/COLOR] file (attached), containing some [COLOR="DarkGreen"]tvtime[/COLOR] commands (since it's the only program I'm interested in controlling remotely). I configured some buttons to take me to the 10, 20, 30 and 40 channel, in the list, and I can go further from there with the UP and DOWN buttons, that now work.
4. I found a file, in [COLOR="Blue"]/etc/init.d/[/COLOR], called [COLOR="Blue"]inputlirc[/COLOR], and I guessed that could be a starting configuration for [COLOR="Red"]inputlirc[/COLOR]. The weird thing is that, after installing [COLOR="Red"]lirc[/COLOR], [COLOR="Red"]inputlirc[/COLOR] and restarting the computer, I was expecting to see [COLOR="Red"]lirc[/COLOR] running in the system monitor. Instead, I found [COLOR="Red"]inputlircd[/COLOR], probably the daemon version of [COLOR="Red"]inputlirc[/COLOR]. examining the command that started it, I saw that the options following [COLOR="Red"]/usr/sbin/inputlirc[/COLOR] were a long list of the events found in [COLOR="Blue"]/dev/input[/COLOR], like this [COLOR="Indigo"]/dev/input/event0 /dev/input/eventt1 ...[/COLOR] and so on. In the above mentioned file [COLOR="Blue"]/etc/init.d/inputlirc[/COLOR] I changed [COLOR="DarkGreen"]$EVENTS[/COLOR] found at the end of two lines (depicting the way the daemon starts, I guess) with [COLOR="DarkGreen"]/dev/input/event5[/COLOR], which is my remote control, as i understood from reading the output of [COLOR="Red"]lshal > out.txt[/COLOR]. This made [COLOR="Red"]inputlirc[/COLOR] start (after rebooting) with only this event as an option. But that's not important. The thing is that, as you can find in the [COLOR="Blue"]irexec[/COLOR] file attached, the remote buttons are seen as [COLOR="RoyalBlue"]KEY_POWER[/COLOR], [COLOR="RoyalBlue"]KEY_TEXT[/COLOR], [COLOR="RoyalBlue"]KEY_MUTE[/COLOR]... and so on, by this daemon. [COLOR="Red"]Lirc[/COLOR] doesn't actually work!!! And there's only a limited number of buttons I can use, so my remote is crippled. I intend to change the batteries also, though I don't think it's that, since in "[COLOR="Purple"]keyboard mode[/COLOR]" the other buttons work.
5. I managed to get a button to initiate a [COLOR="Red"]shutdown[/COLOR] procedure, after reading some threads on the net (don't remember where). I configured the [COLOR="RoyalBlue"]KEY_TEXT[/COLOR] button to do that, since is smaller and I don't want to accidentally shut the box down. It also sends a message to any terminal window, so, in case this happens I don't have surprises (at least not when having a terminal open). And, also put a cancellation for the shutdown procedure, using the same button.
What you need to do to get this working (as I found out from the mentioned threads) is to edit the [COLOR="Blue"]/etc/sudoers[/COLOR] file to allow you to run a "[COLOR="Red"]sudo[/COLOR] command" without having to type a password. You just add a line, at the end of the file, like this: [COLOR="DarkGreen"]*username* ALL=NOPASSWD: /sbin/shutdown[/COLOR], where [COLOR="DarkGreen"]*username*[/COLOR] is your user name. This informs the system that no password should be requested when running applications in the [COLOR="Blue"]/usr/sbin[/COLOR] folder. Warning: as stated in the [COLOR="Blue"]/etc/sudoers[/COLOR] file, you must edit it by running [COLOR="Red"]visudo /etc/sudoers[/COLOR] in a terminal, with, of course, [COLOR="Red"]sudo[/COLOR]. You should be careful, though. Removing password requesting when running important applications means you know what you're doing!

Next?
If I dismiss [COLOR="Red"]LIRC[/COLOR], and I'm seriously thinking to, I might go to remap the keys of this "remote - keyboard", as seen by hal. Could be much easier to do, than getting [COLOR="Red"]LIRC[/COLOR] to work. And, since I get more buttons working this way, maybe I'll get more from my remote. Up untill now, no progress in that direction. There's something called [COLOR="Red"]xev[/COLOR], related to keyboards and key events, but I found nothing to make this remapping easy. I'll keep trying.

---

