---
title: "8.10 messed up a lot! Please help! (drivers and shut down don't work anymore)"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kramer65 on 2008-10-31
Hello,


Yesterday I upgraded to ubuntu 8.10 with the normal upgrade function. After upgrade I restarted and from there the trouble started.

The startup splash didn't show (was before as well) and when you look at the loading things and the OK's behind it you see that the NVIDIA Driver 177.80 fails to load. After this list of loading things I get a promt saying that it loads in low graphics mode. After clicking ok for three times it loads on. It then shows a command line showing:

kram-desktop login:

I didn't know what to do for a moment but after about ten seconds the normal graphical login screen suddenly loads. I log in and compiz is not working anymore. For the rest things do work but the sudden absense of compiz is quite annoying.

Before this install everything worked perfect with the video driver I installed using EnvyNG. I tried starting EnvyNG again but that didn't work. I uninstalled and reinstalled it and tried to install the driver I had installed before in the command line mode of EnvyNG. This did not help.

After restarting a couple times it started to stop doing this as well. When I click restart it shows me the same login command line again as before but now stays there. It doesn't shut down or restart but just stops there. I have to manually press the restart button on my computer.


So to comclude. My drivers are not installed anymore and it doesn't shut down anymore.

Can anybody help?

---

### Post by lH)4~mK0e on 2008-10-31
[[COLOR="Blue"]Ubuntu Release Notes for 8.10[/COLOR]]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810")

I would also look under the errata section.  I believe they talk about other issues (with nvidia) as well.

---

### Post by kramer65 on 2008-10-31
I've got a  nVidia Corporation G94 [GeForce 9600 GT]

I read the following confusing things:

The 71 and **96 (so not G94)** series of proprietary nVidia drivers, as provided by the nvidia-glx-legacy and nvidia-glx packages in Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, are not compatible with the X.Org included in Ubuntu 8.10 **(can't I use the older x.org then?)**. Users with the nVidia TNT, TNT2, TNT Ultra, GeForce, GeForce2, GeForce3, and GeForce4 chipsets **(I thought I had Geforece 9600. what do I have then?)** are affected and will be transitioned on upgrade to the free nv driver instead. This driver does not support 3D acceleration.

Users of other nVidia chipsets that are supported by the 173 or 177 driver series will be transitioned to the nvidia-glx-173 or nvidia-glx-177 package instead **(mine installed the 177 one)**. However, unlike drivers 96 and 71, drivers 173 and 177 are only compatible with CPUs that support SSE (e.g. Intel Pentium III, AMD Athlon XP or higher). Systems with older CPUs will also be transitioned to the nv driver on upgrade. **(I've got a really new cpu; Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Quad CPU Q6700 @2.66GHz so that wouldn't be the problem right?)**.

I don't really get what the problem is since I have a better cpu than described. I must admit I don't raelly understand the numbers though. Can anybody explain me possibly.. ?

---

### Post by Laibcoms on 2008-10-31
I don't know how messed up it is now, but try the following:

Re-quoting myself:
> 
I am not sure if this will work, but I had a problem like yours that 177 won't activate.

So I did:
1) Open Synaptic Package Manager
2) Search nvidia
3) Installed all the 177 that are not yet installed (except those with the -dev suffix)
4) Made sure nvidia-settins is installed as well
5) Restarted
6) Went to "Hardware Drivers"
7) Activated 177
8) Voila

Hope that helps.


Then:
```

gksudo nvidia-settings

```

---

### Post by kramer65 on 2008-10-31
Hi Laibcoms.

I checked synaptic but all the things that you mention are already installed. In the hardware drivers thing the 177 thing is already highlighted as well. I tried both the 177 and the 173 and restarted several times. Nothing helped.

I ran the last command you mentioned and it gives me this prompt which says: "You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server."

Does that help anything? Do I need to do something with that?

---

### Post by Pconfig on 2008-10-31
What happens if you type

sudo startx

If it says something like 'no screens found'

Try typing

sudo nvidia-xconfig

---

### Post by kramer65 on 2008-10-31
sudo startx gives me this:

```
X: warning; process set to priority -1 instead of requested priority 0

Fatal server error:
Server is already active for display 0
	If this server is no longer running, remove /tmp/.X0-lock
	and start again.
```

I didn't run the second command yet. Should I..?

---

### Post by Pconfig on 2008-10-31
Hm, never seen that before.
If x is started it should normally run under
ctrl+alt+f7
But i guess nothing will showup there.

If the command
top | grep X

Doesn't show anything you can safely remove the file as suggested

sudo rm /tmp/.X0-lock

---

### Post by kramer65 on 2008-10-31
I clicked ctrl+alt+f7 which made the screen black for a few seconds after which it resumed to its normal state again.

The command top | grep X gave an endless list of the following:

```
 7676 root      20   0 90600  64m  15m S    2  2.0   5:13.18 Xorg               
 7676 root      20   0 90600  64m  15m S    1  2.0   5:13.21 Xorg               
 7676 root      20   0 90600  64m  15m S    1  2.0   5:13.23 Xorg               
 7676 root      20   0 90600  64m  15m S    0  2.0   5:13.24 Xorg               
 7676 root      20   0 90600  64m  15m S    1  2.0   5:13.28 Xorg               
 7676 root      20   0 90600  64m  15m R   37  2.0   5:14.39 Xorg               
 7676 root      20   0 90600  64m  15m S    9  2.0   5:14.66 Xorg               
 7676 root      20   0 90600  64m  15m S   11  2.0   5:15.00 Xorg               
 7676 root      20   0 90600  64m  15m S    0  2.0   5:15.01 Xorg               
 7676 root      20   0 90600  64m  15m S    2  2.0   5:15.06 Xorg               
 7676 root      20   0 90600  64m  15m S    0  2.0   5:15.07 Xorg               
 7676 root      20   0 90600  64m  15m S    0  2.0   5:15.08 Xorg               
 7676 root      20   0 90600  64m  15m S    0  2.0   5:15.09 Xorg          
etc. etc.
```

Shall I do what you suggested? (run sudo rm /tmp/.X0-lock)

---

### Post by Pconfig on 2008-10-31
No, don't remove the file.
Try a

sudo nvidia-xconfig

though and then reboot.

---

### Post by fishtales on 2008-10-31
I'm experiencing some same issues with the nvidia (177) drivers as well. My sudo startx gives the following:

```

xauth: (argv):1:  bad display name "fishtales-desktop:0" in "list" command
xauth: (stdin):1:  bad display name "fishtales-desktop:0" in "add" command

X: warning; process set to priority -1 instead of requested priority 0

Fatal server error:
Server is already active for display 0
	If this server is no longer running, remove /tmp/.X0-lock
	and start again.

xauth: (argv):1:  bad display name "fishtales-desktop:0" in "remove" command

```

I've also tried sudo nvidia-xconfig and rebooting, but that doesn't help.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by kramer65 on 2008-10-31
Well, things get better and better. Now the terminal window won't open anymore. When I click it, it says it is starting with a thing in the panel below, but then it disappears again.

And then I also still have the problem that the computer won't shut down properly..

I will try to do a restart (by clicking the button on the pc).

---

### Post by kramer65 on 2008-10-31
Well, it gets better and better. I now wanted to shut down but it brought me back to the normal login screen (not the command line which I had before). I put in my username and pasword and i just logged back in.

There is not possibility for me to shut down the computer anymore. I just need to push the button or cut power.

Is there not a possibility to go back to 8.04?

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OK, I just logged back in. I ran sudo nvidia-xconfig and it gave me this:

```
Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".

WARNING: No Layout specified, constructing implicit layout section using screen
         "Default Screen".

WARNING: Unable to find CorePointer in X configuration; attempting to add new
         CorePointer section.

WARNING: The CorePointer device was not specified explicitly in the layout;
         using the first mouse device.

WARNING: Unable to find CoreKeyboard in X configuration; attempting to add new
         CoreKeyboard section.

WARNING: The CoreKeyboard device was not specified explicitly in the layout;
         using the first keyboard device.

Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'
```

Any new ideas?

---

### Post by kramer65 on 2008-10-31
OK. I just restarted again and no changes. I still get the message that ubuntu is running in low graphic mode and I need to click ok three times when it starts up. 

I am really getting crazy of this. Any new ideas?

---

### Post by fishtales on 2008-10-31
I agree with kramer, there seems to be no solution for this right now. And working in 800x600 on a 21-inch monitor really isn't working for me...

Come on Ubuntu masters, where are you?

---

### Post by karoushi on 2008-10-31
I'm having the same problem as above.

Ubuntu 8.10
Kernel 2.6.27-7-generic
GeForce 8600 GT
Nvidia Driver 177.80

I've tried removing and reinstalling nvidia-settings, but everytime I run it it tells me: "You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server.", so I run nvidia-xconfig as root, and reboot the system, but when I run nvidia-settings again I get the same message as above. I'm trying to set up dual monitors on my computer.

---

### Post by kramer65 on 2008-11-01
"I've tried removing and reinstalling nvidia-settings, but everytime I run it it tells me: "You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server.", so I run nvidia-xconfig as root, and reboot the system, but when I run nvidia-settings again I get the same message as above. I'm trying to set up dual monitors on my computer."

I couldn't explain it as well as you do, but indeed this is exactly what happens to me as well.

---

### Post by bamboo.7 on 2008-11-01
same exact problem gforce 7350 le quad / core cpu but this is on a fresh install of 8.10

---

### Post by eolson on 2008-11-01
If none of the above works for you,  do like the system said

> "You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server."


to get to root type      sudo su
then your password

Somewhere in the procedure it will ask you to pick between several drivers.   I believe you said you have 177.   Select that.   Now comes the long wait.  Don't touch anything until you get back to the root prompt "#" it will take awhile.

I don't remember exactly when it does what,  but it's what I did to fix mine.

---

### Post by senyo on 2008-11-01
hi, i have the same problem and i dont know what to do.

when ubuntu starts, this message appears:

Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode

The following error was encountered. you may need
to update your configuration to solve this.

(EE) NVIDIA(0): Failed to initialize the NVIDIA kernel module! Please ensure that there is a supported NVIDIA GPU in this system, and that the NVIDIA device files have been created properly. Please consult the NVIDIA README for details.
***ABORTING***
Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.


What's wrong?

Bye ;)

---

### Post by fishtales on 2008-11-01
Alright then, now we're getting some progress at least.

I've tried doing **eolson** suggests in his reply and the outcome of typing (as root):

```
apt-get install nvidia-glx-173
```

Gives the follwing:

```
Adding Module to DKMS build system
driver version= 173.14.12
Doing initial module build

Error! Your kernel source for kernel 2.6.24-21-generic cannot be found at
/lib/modules/2.6.24-21-generic/build or /lib/modules/2.6.24-21-generic/source.
Installing initial module

Error! Could not locate nvidia.ko for module nvidia in the DKMS tree.
You must run a dkms build for kernel 2.6.24-21-generic (i686) first.
Done.
```

Dkms build? What's that? And how do I do that?

---

### Post by preumbra on 2008-11-01
I had this and other problems.  Here is what I have, what I ran into, and how i solve it.

Ubuntu 8.10 x64 (fresh install)
Nvidia 8800 GTX

First I must say you should do everything from the systems>>administration>>Hardware Drivers GUI.  Doing stuff from other than that place (especially command line) caused me problems.

A)  Problem one, chose to install driver 177 (should work for your card) - but would not activate.  Soluton was just patience.  It takes a bit of time to finish.

B)  Problem two, "Could not enable desktiop settings due to ... / Driver appears not to be in use (or something like that)".  This solution was that after I had completed A) above I needed to reboot.  It tells you that on the GUI but I did not see that.  So I de-activated everything (I had even tried version 173) then re-activated 177.  I then noticed the comment about rebooting.  I rebooted and all is well - did waste several hours though.

Again - i want to stress the importance of using the GUI over command line.  The command line has gotten me into trouble several times.

Hope this helps someone.

---

### Post by karoushi on 2008-11-17
> **eolson said:**
> If none of the above works for you,  do like the system said



to get to root type      sudo su
then your password

Somewhere in the procedure it will ask you to pick between several drivers.   I believe you said you have 177.   Select that.   Now comes the long wait.  Don't touch anything until you get back to the root prompt "#" it will take awhile.

I don't remember exactly when it does what,  but it's what I did to fix mine.

Hi there. I tried doing the above but there wasn't an option to select between several drivers. All that happened was that it seems to have rewritten my xorg.config file and then went directly back to root prompt. Here is what my xorg.config file looks like now:

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Wed Oct  1 15:09:35 PDT 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
#	Driver		"kbd"
#	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
#	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
#	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
#EndSection
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
#	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
#EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "UseFBDev" "true"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Anybody else still having this problem? I'd really like to get my dual screen monitors to work soon:) Thanks in advance for any help.

---

