---
title: "12.04    i just do not know where to put my iso image so it is link to my terminal ."
date: 2013-02-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-02-14
hi, i am trying to make a ubs persistent live ubuntu 12.04

[http://rudd-o.com/en/linux-and-free-software/a-better-way-to-create-a-customized-ubuntu-live-usb-drive](http://rudd-o.com/en/linux-and-free-software/a-better-way-to-create-a-customized-ubuntu-live-usb-drive)

everything went well until i reach this stage 

around mid page , when i reach to do this : 
**Copy the kernel and initial RAM disk from the ISO image to your GRUB directory**



the first line go in no problem :  

sudo mkdir -p /mnt/isoimage

but the second do not go well : sudo mount -o loop /path/to/iso/image.iso /mnt/isoimage

it gives me this error : can't find /mnt/isoimage in /etc/fstab or /etc/mtab



unfortunately this tutorial do not say where to put file,etc and after reading  a bit, if i get this right, , the command line -o loop is about cdrom i think (??).

but my iso image in not on a cd but simply put on my desktop and in download file directory.


now i think my question is simple i guess....  how or what command line i could use so the terminal can find my isoimage on my computer and put it on my usb stick ?

it seem , no link is made with the command on my iso image and i do not know how to make it ?



ty

---

### Post by westie457 on 2013-02-14
Hi the link you provided seems to be a bit complicated.

You could try this link [http://www.pendrivelinux.com/creating-an-ubuntu-live-usb-from-cd/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/creating-an-ubuntu-live-usb-from-cd/)

With a few adjustments to the procedure you can create a persistent USB from a LiveCD or an installed Ubuntu.

---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-02-14
ty for suggestion


i think i found the problem tho i do not know the asnwer :(

sudo dd if=/dev/cdrom of=/path/to/iso/image.iso

i did not do this command cause my iso image  was not on my cd  but the guide said :


**Adjust the path of the of= parameter to point to the directory** where you want to save the ISO image.  For the rest of this tutorial, /path/to/iso/image.iso will represent the path to your ISO image.


then i am stuck on this command line

sudo mount -o loop /path/to/iso/image.iso /mnt/isoimage

obv. i need to change this :
sudo mount -o loop **/path/to/iso/image.iso** /mnt/isoimage 

  has suggested  when he said from upthere :  **Adjust the path of the of= parameter to point to the directory** where you want to save the ISO image.  For the rest of this tutorial, /path/to/iso/image.iso will represent the path to your ISO image.


now my iso image is on my desktop and i just do not know what to write here   for this line :

sudo mount -o loop /path/to/iso/image.iso /mnt/isoimage


imo i need change the :   /path/to/iso/image.iso

with path from where my iso image is ....anyone can tell me what is the path when my isoimage is on my desktop, i try a lot already :( , like 

sim@DesktopOffice:~$ sudo mount -o loop desktop/ubuntu-12.04.1-desktop-i386 /mnt/isoimage

sim@DesktopOffice:~$ sudo mount -o loop desktop /mnt/isoimage

i always end up with : No such file or directory

ty for further help

---

### Post by westie457 on 2013-02-15
One small mistake I have noticed. The desktop folder starts with a capital d, Desktop is different to desktop.

Change the desktop/<name of iso>  to Desktop/<name of iso>

See if that makes any difference.

---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-02-15
wow can t believe just because of D instead of d..

well ty !!!!

it work.

now i got other errors.

says other directory not exist on next line

i am just tired for now and a bit mad....ill try later to work on it and come back here if i cannot solve it with the help of u guys

ty

---

