---
title: "[SOLVED] In 8.10 not seeing nvidia driver using 96.43.09 driver"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-10-30
I loaded the 96.43.09 driver for my FX5200 card and all I can get is low resolution mode.  For some reason Ubuntu 8.10 is not reading the xorg.conf file correctly.

> terminator@terminator-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder57)  Mon Oct 27 14:37:20 PST 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "ViewSonic"
    ModelName      "VA703B"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 85.0
    Option         "DPMS"
    Modeline       "1280x1024_60.00"  108.88  1280 1360 1496 1712  1024 1025 1028 1060  -HSync +Vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


---

### Post by perlluver on 2008-10-30
May I ask why you are using the 96 drivers with that card?  I have the same card and I am using the 173 drivers.  Have you tried using them?

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-10-30
I am using the 96.43.09 driver since I have an old system and my processor does not work with the SSE instruction set in the 173 driver.

---

### Post by perlluver on 2008-10-30
Ah I was asking, because the last I heard, the Older Nvidia drivers were not working with the updated X-Org Server.  I don't think they have fixed this yet.

---

### Post by solitaire on 2008-10-30
> **perlluver said:**
> Ah I was asking, because the last I heard, the Older Nvidia drivers were not working with the updated X-Org Server.  I don't think they have fixed this yet.

The 96.43.09 are in the BETA stage at the moment (released yesterday) and 'should' be compatible with the new Xorg.

Unfortunately they don't work to well with my old laptop with it's "GeForce4 440 go" :(

---

