---
title: "10.04 ezoom is not working"
date: 2013-04-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by CFoxess on 2013-04-13
Hi all.

I have been using 10.04 for years, one day i've decided to try upgrading to 12.04 and wala, i didn't like it and did a clean install of 10.04.

Since then I have been unable to do an ezoom, and i really wonder why.

I have zero idea what is the issue, i have tried changing the keybinding in a few locations, namely CCSM, Keyboard Shortcuts and gconf-editor..

Any help is appreciated.

P.S I really need the ezoom function :(

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-04-13
After the clean install, did you install ezoom? I'ts not part of Ubuntu. (I assume you mean Ezoom the GPS tracker.)

By the way, Ubuntu Desktop 10.04 will be supported for less than another month. You should decide what you will move to. If you don't like Ubuntu 12.04 there are other options. The most popular are Xubuntu, Lubuntu, Kubuntu or Linux Mint.

---

### Post by CFoxess on 2013-04-13
Ah.. by ezoom, i am referring to the most basic 'Enhanced Desktop Zoom'.

I am probably gonna give LinuxMint a try. Though i kinda need something simple to work on for two more weeks.

Thanks for the prompt reply!

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-04-14
Here's a 12.04 tutorial:
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9QBvNb3GkrM](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9QBvNb3GkrM)

I've used zooming when doing a presentation, it's invaluable, especially when answering questions, to help people focus on one area of the screen.

After a bit of searching around, I found how to do it in Mint with Cinnamon. It's a little bit awkward.

---

### Post by CFoxess on 2013-04-16
Ho yes,

I've tried changing the keys in CCSM, it doesn't work.

I have tried doing it in System>Preferences>Keyboard Shortcuts as well.

I tried changing the keys from gconf.editor as well.

All these are not working. Any idea what could be the issue?

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-04-16
I hate to be a nag, but to me, the issue begins with a very old version of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by CFoxess on 2013-04-17
> **gordintoronto said:**
> I hate to be a nag, but to me, the issue begins with a very old version of Ubuntu.

:P I guess that's my answer to a certain extent. Hohoho.. Thank so much!

---

