---
title: "9.04 ATI driver install error  * error in post *"
date: 2009-06-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jenova_skill on 2009-06-08
==================================================
 ATI Technologies Linux Driver Installer/Packager 
==================================================

Error: ./default_policy.sh does not support version
default:v2:x86_64:lib32::none:2.6.27-11-generic; make sure that the version is being
correctly set by --iscurrentdistro

Removing temporary directory: fglrx-install.UTErkZ


Im using 64bit ubuntu..... this is the same driver I used in 8.1 *64bit* 
When i upgraded to 9.04 I had to disable all vid driver due to bug.
This is the error I got when I tried to install it. Is this a 32 bit library error?

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-06-08
seems like the new jaunty kernel isn't supported

start yelling at ATI.

**starts walking over to the phone book**
or use the free drivers that are provided by ubuntu for now

---

### Post by jenova_skill on 2009-06-08
So technically I should just be able to run the older kernel?
Is there a way to do that? for the time being? I've always had issues with the GFX in every update but it's always something new. It's a pain but I learn a little more each time I have to fix something. heh

---

### Post by mtheultimate on 2009-06-08
Im having the same problem. I found this post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1127412&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1127412&page=2)

If you get this resolved somehow, please post it here. Thanks!

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-06-08
Ah.  ATI drivers.

I have an ATI.  Installed the latest Catalyst driver

(Same as this guy:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1164815&highlight=fglrx](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1164815&highlight=fglrx))

Also used Synaptic to install Catalyst Control Center.

Joy!

However, you can't use System -> Preferences -> Display without locking up.

---

### Post by kportertx on 2009-06-09
Your video card may not be compatible with the newest fglrx driver.  Also you cannot revert the the legacy driver because you are using ubuntu 9.04 which uses an updated xorg.  And the latest xorg is only compatible with the version of the fglrx diver that dropped your video card.  My recommendation is to install the open source driver.

You can find more details at
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide")

---

### Post by mtheultimate on 2009-06-09
> 
**Which cards does ATI no longer support?** The ATI Radeon 9500-9800, X300-X2100, Xpress.  See the complete list [here.]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/9.4") If your card is on that list, you are restricted to the 9.3 driver - however since 9.3 driver doesn't support xorg-xserver 1.6, it will not work with Jaunty! This guide currently is for installing 9.5. !!!SO BE CAREFUL!!! 


Alright, so basically, I cant install an ATI driver for my X600 because Jaunty doesnt support it, 
AND, the open source driver that came with Jaunty doesnt support 3D.

So basically im completely boned?

Awesome.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-06-09
I'd say try Catalyst 9.5.  But if ATI says your card is no longer supported, that is an issue to take up with ATI.

---

### Post by mtheultimate on 2009-06-09
Well this post says 9.3 wont work:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1112006.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1112006.html)

And in the link you posted above, those people didnt have much luck either.
Im new to linux and theyve had disaterous black screen problems so im
hesitant to experiment.

Thank you for all your help but this has just been a tragic case of "look before you leap". 
I should have tried Ubuntu from the CD before I nuked XP. Ive had a lot of problems.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-06-09
Try Intrepid (8.10) until this is worked out in Jaunty.  Somehow, I don't think Ubuntu will want to leave a lot of people with older cards in the cold for very long.

Or, see what a new card would cost you.

Since ATI and nVidia seem to generate the most posts, it might be better to find another.  Maybe a newer ATI card that is supported by Catalyst. But before you buy, cruise the posts and see what others think.

---

### Post by leto2nd on 2009-06-10
You could try the synaptic package "xorg-driver-flgrx" and see if that works for you.

If it that gives you video problems on restart just reboot into recovery mode and go to the root prompt and type:    apt-get autoremove "xorg-driver-flgrx     and type exit then selct continue boot.

This didn't work with my x1650 card but you could give it a shot.

---

