---
title: "1440x900 resolution working in Asus M50VM-A1"
date: 2008-09-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by davidsaid on 2008-09-06
Hi All, I spent all day traying to correctly install the NVDIA drivers and achieve max resolution on the ASUS MV50M-A1. I finally have it working, so I thought I'd share what I did:

1. Install Envy using Synaptic.
1.a Go to Applications > System > Synaptic Package Manager
1.b Mark envyng-core and envyng-gtk packages for instalation
1.c Click Apply
2. Use envy from Applications > Systen > EnvyNG
2.a Select NVIDIA > Install the NVIDIA driver (Manual Selection of the Driver) > 173.14.12 (or better)
2.b Click apply, watch it go!
2.c Reboot
3. Add custom lines to your xorg.conf file, see my xorg.conf file at the end for your reference.
3.a Type 
> sudo mousepad /etc/X11/xorg.conf
3.b Edit lines as needed (All I did was to add the 1400x900@600 ModeLine
3.d save
3.c Reboot
4. Open your screen setings, new modes should be available. 
5. Enjoy


My sorg file for your reference:
> 
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder57)  Thu Jul 17 18:39:19 PDT 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse" "CorePointer"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
    VendorName     "Generic LCD Display"
    ModelName      "LCD Panel 1440x900"
    HorizSync       31.5 - 56.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 65.0
    Gamma           1
    ModeLine       "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
    ModeLine       "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync
    ModeLine	   "1440x900@60" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "monitor1"
    Gamma           1
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    BoardName      "vesa"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    BoardName      "vesa"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Virtual     1440 900
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1440x900@60" "1024x768@60" "800x600@60" "800x600@56" "640x480@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "screen1"
    Device         "device1"
    Monitor        "monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection



Xorg file for your reference

---

### Post by Balinus on 2008-09-07
Nice,thanks.

I was wondering, did you had problem with your ethernet card?  I can't access the internet with a fresh Ubuntu 8.04 64bits install (I'll try 32 bits soon today).

Which video card do you have btw?  I have the 9600M GS and I can't seem to be able to find the driver...

---

### Post by davidsaid on 2008-09-08
Just follow my indications to the letter, my copmputer also has the NVIDIA GeForce 9600M GS vidoe card and it worked perfectly. 

As you can see in the link shown below, that particular model IS supported in the version 173.14.12, just use envy and manually select that version, then modify xorg.conf file to fit your screen resolution.

[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/173.14.12/README/appendix-a.html](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/173.14.12/README/appendix-a.html)

I had no problems with the copper-interface NIC, but the atheros wireless adapter is not working yet, nor the soundcard.

---

### Post by Balinus on 2008-09-08
ok thanks, I'm installing the 32bits version right-now. :)

---

### Post by RaZe42 on 2008-09-08
> **davidsaid said:**
> Just follow my indications to the letter, my copmputer also has the NVIDIA GeForce 9600M GS vidoe card and it worked perfectly. 

As you can see in the link shown below, that particular model IS supported in the version 173.14.12, just use envy and manually select that version, then modify xorg.conf file to fit your screen resolution.

[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/173.14.12/README/appendix-a.html](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/173.14.12/README/appendix-a.html)

I had no problems with the copper-interface NIC, but the atheros wireless adapter is not working yet, nor the soundcard.
It seems that the wireless card will work with the ath9k driver

> ath9k is the youngest of the three drivers. Initial development was done by Atheros, who then released the complete source code to the community. ath9k supports all currently available 802.11n chipsets from Atheros.

[http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/ath9k]("http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/ath9k")

Also see these links, I found them by doing a simple search on these forums

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=894177&highlight=ath9k]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=894177&highlight=ath9k")

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=874097&highlight=ath9k]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=874097&highlight=ath9k")


Also, sound should work with OSS4 instead of ALSA

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=872578&highlight=Asus+m50vm]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=872578&highlight=Asus+m50vm")

For instructions on how to install OSS4, check this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=780961&highlight=OSS4]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=780961&highlight=OSS4")

EDIT: Apparently there is a deb package with the ath9k wireless driver available

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=883731&highlight=ath9k]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=883731&highlight=ath9k")

---

### Post by Balinus on 2008-09-08
Wow,thanks you very much!  I'll check the links! :)

Sounds now works with OSS4.1.  Not perfect in terms of integration with Gnome though.

---

### Post by avilella on 2009-04-13
[http://linux-hybrid-graphics.blogspot.com/](http://linux-hybrid-graphics.blogspot.com/)

If you have access to any of the laptops below and have tried to run Linux, please take a moment to provide the DSDT information for the laptop in this link:

[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/312756](http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/312756)

Sony Vaio Z-series (intel/nvidia)
Fujitsu Siemens Amilo XI 3650 (intel/nvidia)
BenQ Joybook S42 (intel/nvidia)
ASUS N10J (intel/nvidia)
Dell Studio XPS 13 (nvidia/nvidia)
ASUS Intros G71Gx (?/nvidia GeForce 260M)
MSI GT628 (?/nvidia GeForce 160M)
LG Xnote P510 Laptop (?/nvidia GeForce GT 130M)
HP HDX 18t (?/nvidia GeForce GT 130M)
Dell XPS M1730 (nvidia/nvidia)
MSI EX630 (nvidia/nvidia -- )
Toshiba Qosmio X305-Q706/Q708 (nvidia/nvidia -- 9400m + 2x9800m GTS)
Acer Aspire 7530 (nvidia/nvidia -- 9100M G + GeForce 9300M GS)
ASUS X83Vm-X1 (?/nvidia)
+ Clevo M860TU (?/nvidia GeForce 9800M GTS)
+ Acer Aspire 8930G (?/nvidia GeForce 9700M GT)
+ Asus G50V (?/nvidia GeForce 9700M GT)
+ Zepto Mythos A15 (?/nvidia)
+ Asus M70VN (?/nvidia GeForce 9650M GT)
+ Acer Aspire 8920 (?/nvidia GeForce 9650M GS)
+ Asus M50VM-A1 (?/nvidia GeForce 9600M GS)
Lenovo ThinkPad T500 (intel/ati)
Lenovo ThinkPad T400 (intel/ati)
ASUS M51Ta (intel/ati)
Fujitsu-Siemens Amilo Sa 3650 (intel/ati)
MSI PX211 12'' (intel/ati)
HP Pavilion tx2500 (intel/ati)

To compile your DSDT information, install if you haven't already the acpidump and iasl tools:
sudo apt-get install acpidump iasl           # on Debian-based systems

Then run the following commands:

sudo acpidump > acpidump.txt
sudo acpixtract acpidump.txt
iasl -d DSDT.dat

This will create a DSDT.dsl file that you can attach to the bug report. This information will allow the developers to fully implement the hybrid graphics features for Linux.

---

