---
title: "11.10 trouble"
date: 2012-04-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by xworld on 2012-04-03
There doesn't seem to be an intro section so, Hello ubuntu forums.   I recently installed ubuntu 11.10 and am currently trying to get used to the linux system until 12.04 comes out. I'm doing poorly I guess. The first thing I did was to switch over to GNOME because Unity sucks. I then learned that it's only a fallback and is not fully functional(is this true?)I had problems because I could not find the system tab. I found system settings but it's not the same as there is no preferences or administration options.  I have a few questions. The first one is; Is it true that GNOME on 11.10 us just a fallback and is not fully functional? Why isn't my music playing when I open it in rythmbox? How come even though I downloaded ccsm none of the settings I change take affect? Such as setting the desktop cube. Sorry for the barrage of questions I'm completely at a loss.

---

### Post by ixtok on 2012-04-03
Since no one has answered you, I can give you a little help. If you installed the fallback to gno classic, it should be fully functional although slightly different in appearance and function to earlier versions of ubuntu. Your music problem could be because you didn't install restricted extras, found in the software center. I stay away from the cube, it broke my system too many times playing with it. You might try linuxmint, which is a variant of ubuntu but does not contain unity, gnome works and all the restricted extras are already included.

---

### Post by xworld on 2012-04-03
Thanks. After I installed linux mint and now all my problems are solved but the cube....I guess it is a bit buggy

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2012-04-03
When 12.04 comes out in a month you will have 3 choices, Unity, Gnome Classic and gnome-shell
for classic users you will be happy with it.

OP you did not install your gstreamers just go to software center type in gstreamer and install the
first 4 gstreamers and music will work. Have to install the Codec's (the gstreamers). for any music to play.

Yes Gnome Classic in 11.10 is a fallback.

New users just make sure first thing you do is open all your repositories in Software Sources.

If you choose you can get "flash and codec's and more by using "ubuntu-restricted-extras"
```

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```To get medibuntu and install "libdvdcss2" so as to play DVD's 
install from this web sight below:
ubuntuupdates.com
Pick out Medibuntu will give you instructions to install this ppa as it is called.
Then:
```
sudo apt-get install libdvdcss2
```Now you can update system for fresh install:
```
sudo apt-get update; sudo apt-get upgrade
```

---

