---
title: "9.10 shut down problem"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by monton on 2009-11-04
Greetings folks
Over the past few days I upgraded my Gateway laptop from 9.04 to 9.10. Much faster than 9.04 and my wireless connection works much better. From my same position, slouched on the couch, my connection typically topped out at 86%. Now connects at 96 to 100%. The overall install was effortless. Celeron 1.6 with 1.5gigs of RAM. Today added a wd160GB 7200 hard drive and reinstalled 9.10. Faster yet!
Installed on a AMD XP3200 w/nvidia video 512MB RAM, DVD/RW etc., flawless install. Burned a DVD in a flash.
While I was at it, installed 9.10 on a E-machines T2341 with 384MB of RAM ATI Radeon 64 video, CD/RW. I have an odd occurance with this one. Installed without a hitch. On shutdown the computer comes to a "command line" screen, DOS like, with the following text:

Ubuntu 9.10 "username"-desktop tty1

"username"-desktop login: [   49.948542] System Halted

Then I push the power button and it goes off.

What does this mean and how do I get a "normal"  shut down? I want to give this computer to my daughter and it needs to work flawlessly.

Any thoughts?:-?

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-11-04
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1306789](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1306789)

.

---

### Post by monton on 2009-11-11
Thanks Lew

I have the continuing shutdown problem. (I've been away from this computer since last week)

I edited the halt file and inserted rmmod snd-hda-intel

No change. Tried disabling APIC in the bios the shutdown problem remains.

I edited S40umountfs removing the -f in 2 lines still to no avail.  Ssme screen on shutdown

Ubuntu 9.10 username-desktop tty1
username-desktop login: [   138.1476021] system halted

This is one of three systems I upgraded to 9.10. The others, laptop and desktop are fully functional with normal shut downs.

Emachines T2341
384MB RAM
AMD2400
40gig HD - healthy
ATI Radeon 64

There are no error messages just an incomplete shutdown
Anyone fined a fix for this?

Thanks

---

### Post by RichardSM on 2010-04-12
Hello I have a shutdown problem?

My computer use to run 8.14 LTS I ordered a 9.10 CD from the site in the UK and recd. last week I installed it. And made it a full partition as it was before now it won't shutdown I think it turns off the HD the screen goes black after few min. but the fan stays on and the computer light stays on as well along with the mouse too. It’s an AMD 1400 Thunderbird processor 512Kb memory home built machine, the mother board is made by MSI. IT ran very well when I ran it hard wired it work just fine but I moved it to a location where I tried to use it wirelessly using 8.14 could not get to work that way. So that’s why I ordered 9.10 hoping it would work but now it won't shutdown properly. Any help would greatly be appreciated.  Thank you

---

### Post by Mykk on 2010-04-12
I had a problem like this, i updated my kernel and then it would shutdown as expected.

Might be worth looking into?

---

### Post by RichardSM on 2010-04-13
Ok Thanks

Can you point to a site for the latest kernel. I went to 2 sites both are not working. 

Update 4-14-10
All right I downloaded a new kernel. (Kernel Linux 2.6.31.14 generic) still no difference.

---

