---
title: "issues with monitor refresh rate"
date: 2009-07-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by haze. on 2009-07-14
I seem to have a decent refresh rate when loading ubuntu, but when I go to enter a program which requires a high refresh rate (say Urban Terror) i get this error:

[CENTER]Analog
Out of Range
80.8kHz/65kHz[/CENTER]

Now from reading forums, I have seen many solutions, all of which dont seem to work for my problem.  There are others who have the same problem, and I believe it stems from my monitor (LG204WT)

Any suggestions around this?  No issues in dual boot windows, but cannot seem to get a fix in Ubuntu.

Here is my xorg.conf


# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Mon Mar 23 15:33:27 PST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"

EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LG L204WT"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6150SE nForce 430"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024_75 +0+0; 1280x1024 +0+0; 1024x768_75 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by roccivic on 2009-07-15
It looks to me like the problem is in the settings of the program you are trying to run.

The max vertical sync for your monitor is 75Hz, but you say 80.8 kHz, that's over 1000 times faster. No wonder it doesn't work.:shock: Or is that just a typo and is supposed to be 80.8Hz? Oh well, in either case it's too much.

---

### Post by haze. on 2009-07-15
Figured out the issue after a few hrs of searching.  The drivers for 9.04 do not seem to project the right information from the monitor to the video card therefore crashing out.  I resorted back to an older driver and it works!

Thanks!

---

