---
title: "9.10 sound problems"
date: 2009-11-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sandmouse on 2009-11-16
Hey sandmouse here with another problem. I installed 9.10 from a upgrade of 9.04 about 2 weeks ago and had sound problems I thought it was 9.10 so re-installed 9.04 and found same problems I upgraded again and ordered a sound card. Card came today, I installed it! same problems. For instance when I am at youtube listening to a video I can hear music but no voices, sometimes it also has a echo in it, sometimes it has no sound at all. HELP. Just tell me what to do, please.

---

### Post by Jon Monreal on 2009-11-16
> **sandmouse said:**
> Hey sandmouse here with another problem. I installed 9.10 from a upgrade of 9.04 about 2 weeks ago and had sound problems I thought it was 9.10 so re-installed 9.04 and found same problems I upgraded again and ordered a sound card. Card came today, I installed it! same problems. For instance when I am at youtube listening to a video I can hear music but no voices, sometimes it also has a echo in it, sometimes it has no sound at all. HELP. Just tell me what to do, please.

Sounds incredibly odd. You're saying that you can hear music in Youtube videos but not voices? Are you sure there are voices in the video? It should be one audio stream.

Also, it would help if we knew what sound card it is.

---

### Post by sandmouse on 2009-11-16
Sorry the sound card is a sound blaster audigy se, its on ubuntu 9.10. I also downloaded a mp3 and tried it as well, same thing. I also included the output of the system tests.

---

### Post by i22yb on 2009-11-18
I also have a sound blaster audigy and get the same problem.  Sound is a bit distorted and scratchy with some high pitched tones.  Youtube, Hulu, and playing local flac/ogg/mp3 files.  It wasn't this way on 9.04, problem showed up with upgrade to 9.10 - seems to effect both 32bit and 64bit versions.

---

### Post by camaron1 on 2009-11-18
Pulseaudio is screwing many people's sound on 9.10. Try removing it and rebooting. 

Alternatively if you have installed a new card you want to make sure Ubuntu is choosing that one and not the integrated one.

Open volume control under System>preferencies and check your soundcard is recognized under **hardware** and then it is actually chosen under **output**

---

### Post by sandmouse on 2009-11-18
That seems to have fixed the problem. I have to adjust the the sound with the speakers but that works too. thanks for your help.:D

---

