---
title: "16.04 bootup takes 2 minutes. How do I see what's stalling?"
date: 2017-07-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by link626 on 2017-07-09
I have 1604 installed on my laptop and my dedicated server in the datacenter.

dedicated server takes much longer to boot.

How do I see what is causing it to boot so slow?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2017-07-09
**dmesg | less** or **journalctl -b**. There used to be a tool that would draw pretty graphs of boot time, but I can't remember the name of it, and I don't know that it would work with systemd anyway.

---

### Post by johndough2 on 2017-07-09
Hi

Is there an option like pressing the ESC key to see the listing as it loads?

Then the listing is shown with the time as the opening value.

My install of opensuse waits for a partition to be mounted, upto 90 seconds, and also waits for a network manager to take over the network function for upto 30 seconds.

Whereas the debian one doesn't and boots in a quarter of the time.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2017-07-09
You can check results for ```
systemd-analyze time
```
```
systemd-analyze blame
```
To see what processes are taking up the most time during boot

If you want to see all the options use ```
man systemd-analyze
```
or look at [https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd-analyze.html](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd-analyze.html)

---

### Post by link626 on 2017-07-09
> **johndough2 said:**
> Hi

Is there an option like pressing the ESC key to see the listing as it loads?

Then the listing is shown with the time as the opening value.

My install of opensuse waits for a partition to be mounted, upto 90 seconds, and also waits for a network manager to take over the network function for upto 30 seconds.

Whereas the debian one doesn't and boots in a quarter of the time.


[COLOR=#000000]That could be it. 

Ubuntu incorrectly reads one of my Windows NTFS partitions as a "ZFS Device (ZPool Version 5000)"and doesn't list that big partition in the taskbar. 

All my other windows partitions show up, except that ZFS one. 
Maybe that's what's stalling[/COLOR]

---

### Post by link626 on 2017-07-09
I changed grub to verbose boot, and I see that it gets stuck at the ethernet config of some sort, before it moves forward with booting.

How would I fix this?

or maybe it's not the ethernet. There's a "SATA link down" message in this list.


See attachment,

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2017-07-09
All of the things in that screenshot are taking fractions of a second to complete. See the timestamps?

Pictures aren't ever so helpful. Posting logs within **code** tags would be much more useful.

---

### Post by link626 on 2017-07-09
actually, the bootup is error free now.

But it still hangs for 1+ minute at that spot.

I wonder what it's waiting for.

I fixed the 'sata link down' error by disabling esata in the bios.


Here's the entire dmesg log. Boot up hangs right after the "rename eth"

line 910

[https://pastebin.com/tZJ0aCYs](https://pastebin.com/tZJ0aCYs)

---

### Post by johndough2 on 2017-07-10
Hi

At 3 seconds its dealing with USB hub et al:   No PS/2 controller found. Probing ports directly.

But after the network renaming etc

EXT4-fs (sda6) doesn't start until 99 seconds. Your Windows one is on /dev/sdb2.

So is there an encryption process to go thru before it gets mounted?

At the end there is an IPv6 issue, but the biggest delay is 

[    8.790921] e1000e 0000:03:00.0 rename4: renamed from eth2
[   99.243411] EXT4-fs (sda6): mounted filesystem with ordered data mode. Opts: (null)

Therefore I would look at /dev/sda6 and see if there are any bad blocks.
Check if Opts: (null) could have a parameter to improve it's mounting time.

Now this is illogical but I would check the swap file size for the server and increase it perhaps.

---

### Post by link626 on 2017-07-10
> **johndough2 said:**
> Hi

At 3 seconds its dealing with USB hub et al:   No PS/2 controller found. Probing ports directly.

But after the network renaming etc

EXT4-fs (sda6) doesn't start until 99 seconds. Your Windows one is on /dev/sdb2.

So is there an encryption process to go thru before it gets mounted?

At the end there is an IPv6 issue, but the biggest delay is 

[    8.790921] e1000e 0000:03:00.0 rename4: renamed from eth2
[   99.243411] EXT4-fs (sda6): mounted filesystem with ordered data mode. Opts: (null)

Therefore I would look at /dev/sda6 and see if there are any bad blocks.
Check if Opts: (null) could have a parameter to improve it's mounting time.

Now this is illogical but I would check the swap file size for the server and increase it perhaps.


The server has 8gb ram. I didn't think I needed that much swap, because it's light duty.

How would I find out what Opts parameters are available?


yes, systemd shows kernel boot is taking 99 seconds to load, userspace only 21 seconds.

The ext4 partition is on an extended logical partition, not primary partition like the other partitions. (though i swear i chose primary partition when installing. hmm...)

[ATTACH=CONFIG]275949[/ATTACH]

Would that cause the 99 second lag?

Is there any trick that can shorten this lag?

---

### Post by QIII on 2017-07-10
Hello!

Please do not use large images.  Many of our users have slow connections or data limits.  Let them choose whether to transfer large images.

Thanks!

---

### Post by johndough2 on 2017-07-11
Hi

As it is saying MBR you only get 4 primaries.

You have 5 partitions, plus a tiny amount of unused, so an extended was needed.

Re-arranging that layout will be extremely difficult.

Therefore look at the arrangement of both SDA & SDB and consider re-jigging or GPT at least one disk.  

Given that you have a lot of data it may be preferable to live this problem in the short term.

###########

This is ext3 and you are on ext4, but I guess the same theory applies.  Something to ponder on, rather than react to.

[https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/filesystems/ext4.txt#](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/filesystems/ext4.txt#)
* ordered mode
In data=ordered mode, ext4 only officially journals metadata, but it logically
groups metadata information related to data changes with the data blocks into a
single unit called a transaction.  When it's time to write the new metadata
out to disk, the associated data blocks are written first.  
In general, this mode performs **_slightly slower than writeback_** 
but significantly faster than journal mode.


[http://gnuru.org/article/666/ordered-data-mode](http://gnuru.org/article/666/ordered-data-mode)
On booting you may be getting this message:

     EXT3-fs: mounted file system with ordered data mode.

This is perfectly normal and says that the file system mounted OK.

"Ordered data" mode is the default mode for ext3 and ensures that data are consistent with the journal. Recently written files will never show up with garbage after a crash.

There are other modes.

"Writeback" mode avoids the long file system checks at boot time that were a "feature" of ext2, but otherwise guarantees of file system integrity are the same as in ext2.

"Data journal" mode requires a larger journal for speed reasons and takes longer to start after a crash, but it may be faster for NFS (network file system), for some database operations and synchronous mail server operations. Journals all data and metadata, so data is written twice.

You can update your ext3 journal to the latest version by using:

       mount -o journal=update

You can also mount the file system using different journal modes, like this:

     mount -o data=journal

        mount -o data=ordered

        mount -o data=writeback
#############################################

[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=888241](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=888241)

---

