---
title: "9.10 desktop problem on eeepc"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nedlud on 2009-11-05
I had my eeePc 1000HA working with Ubuntu. When it suggested I upgrade to 9.10 I did.

After installation, it lets me log in, using the GUI, but when I get to the desktop, all I can see are two icons. One for the USB drive, and one for some application I installed. What I *can't* see are the bars at the top or bottom of the screen. Like the one at the top of the screen that shows the time and lets you access application etc.

Where did they go?

And more importantly, how do I get them back?

I thought the screen resolution might be set wrong, be everything *looks* right. And when I booted to a command line, I could not find the xorg.conf which is what some other forum suggested I edit to fix the problem. Without access to the menu to launch application, my computer is more or less useless.

Can anyone help?

---

### Post by laidback on 2009-11-05
I don't know the answer but you may find an article in the latest Full Circle mag. of interest:-

[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/issue-30/](http://fullcirclemagazine.org/issue-30/)

see page 17...

---

### Post by nedlud on 2009-11-05
Interesting article (and magazine). Thanks for pointing that out to me. But it doesn't actually help me ATM.

I'd prefer not to have to reinstall one of the netbook distros from scratch as I'll lose the work I have on the machine. I could copy it all off, then copy it back again later, but I can't justify that kind of work when I should be able to just fix the current problem and have a working system again.

Can anyone help?

---

### Post by twright on 2009-11-05
Just open a file manager, press ctrl+h and delete all of the .folders and .files (files starting with . ).

I run 9.10 on my eeepc and it works great.

---

### Post by nedlud on 2009-11-05
Delete all the hidden files and folders? I'm going to assume this reply is a joke.

Can anyone offer any actual help?

---

### Post by twright on 2009-11-06
> **nedlud said:**
> Delete all the hidden files and folders? I'm going to assume this reply is a joke.

Can anyone offer any actual help?
Actually this is a common problem deriving from when some of your .config files get corrupted between different versions of programs on upgrades. If you delete all of the hidden files in your home folder, Ubuntu will automatically create new ones with the default settings and this should fix your problem, the same as if you had created a new user (if you don't believe me ask someone else :-) ). If you want to err on the side of caution then just move them to another folder.

This has worked countless times, so surely it is not as ridiculous as it first sounds... (remember, Linux is not Windows)

---

### Post by nedlud on 2009-11-07
Okay. I see where you are comming from with this. I actually got a reply to this same question on another forum ([http://superuser.com/questions/66646/karmic-koala-desktop-only-shows-wallpaper-nothing-else](http://superuser.com/questions/66646/karmic-koala-desktop-only-shows-wallpaper-nothing-else)) and their advice was more specific. Delete the .gconf and .gconfd folders from the home directory. This worked a treat. My desktop is now restored :)

---

