---
title: "11.04 Unmounting a Partition"
date: 2011-07-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by n125 on 2011-07-31
In Natty, unmounting an external drive is pretty simple: just right-click its icon in the launcher and select "Safely Remove Drive". But when it comes to unmounting a partition, it's not so straight-forward: I have to open a Nautilus window, right-click the partition in the Devices list, and select "Unmount" from the context menu. Having to open a Nautilus window just to unmount a partition seems pretty cumbersome to me, so I'm wondering if there's a simpler method, perhaps with an appindicator or through the Unity launcher.

I know how to do it with the Terminal, but I'm looking for a GUI-based solution.

Thanks.

---

### Post by spiky001 on 2011-07-31
Open software centre type unmount in search box I found mount manager in there, I did have something in 10.04 for doing this but not looked in 11.04

---

### Post by n125 on 2011-07-31
Thanks, but that would just mean I have to open mountmanager instead of Nautilus to get to the unmount option. I was hoping to find a solution that eliminates that step, such as adding an unmount entry to the partition's quicklist in the Unity launcher, or an appindicator similar to Ejecter.

---

### Post by spiky001 on 2011-07-31
The only other option I can think of is a script, ( maybe someone can help there) The only problem is How many partitions and are they Labeled? when a script is done you could create a launcher

---

### Post by spiky001 on 2011-07-31
Hi I managed this, open gedit type.   ```
#!/bin/sh    umount /dev/your partition
```   Save as umount.sh to desktop.  Then run as root ```
chown root umount.sh
``` then ```
chmod 4755 umount.sh
```  then create a launcher for the script on desktop

---

### Post by vanadium on 2011-07-31
A better command would be the one I saw today here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11104110&postcount=8](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11104110&postcount=8)
The udisk --unmount command.
However, we still would need to find a way to add this as an option to the right-click menu of a mounted drive in Unity.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-07-31
> **n125 said:**
>  but I'm looking for a GUI-based solution.



Open gconf-editor, apps > nautilus > desktop. Tick the "volumes_visible" box. Icons for mounted partitions will appear on the desktop. Simply right-click on the desktop icon and "unmount". This will only work for partitions mounted from the Places pane of a Nautilus window. Partitions mounted by a line in /etc/fstab need root privileges to unmount.


> **n125 said:**
> I have to open a Nautilus window, right-click the partition in the Devices list, and select "Unmount" from the context menu

There is a slightly simpler way of doing it, but it does involve opening a nautilus window. Simply left-click (once) on the eject symbol by the partition name in the left pane.

---

