---
title: "12.04 runs slow on HP Mini 311"
date: 2012-10-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Feyerbrand on 2012-10-05
I recently did a fresh new install to Ubuntu 12.04 (Yes I did a complete wipe and brand new install to prevent errors) from 11.04 that ran great on my laptop.  Now my device is running extremely choppy and stutters quite frequently when doing basic tasks such as browsing the web using Chrome, or watching a YouTube video (I can't stand my cat videos running so poorly) 

Does anyone know if there is a debloated version (not Lubuntu or others) of Ubuntu that would run better on my hardware and allow me to peruse the web and other apps on the device without experiencing lag?    

Intel Atom - 1.67 GHZ
Nvidia Ion
3 GB Ram
320 GB HDD

SOLUTION

Okay so after some digging, I found that my NVidia driver was outdated and I needed to make sure it was current

```
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
```

also to make Flash stop playing as choppy I disabled hardware acceleration to make it run better (Now I can watch all 5 hours of Heyayayaya without any stutters =])

You need to edit (Or create) the following location

```
/etc/adobe/
```

then edit (or Create) the following file

```
mms.cfg
```

you can do so by using the following command

```
sudo cd /etc/adobe/
gksudo gedit /etc/adobe/mms.cfg
```

add the following parameter

```
EnableLinuxHWVideoDecode=0
```

this will disable the hardware acceleration (Currently only supported by windows by what I read online)

---

### Post by snowpine on 2012-10-05
A couple of suggestions:

1. Make sure you have correct Nvidia drivers installed.
2. Try selecting "Unity 2D" session from the login screen.

if neither of those help

3. other desktop environments/windows managers (fluxbox, icewm, openbox, etc) can be installed from Software Center. [Xfce]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/xfce") is a very popular alternative.

I personally run Fuduntu on my netbook (Asus EEE 900ha). It is based on the old Gnome 2 (rather than Unity like the newer Ubuntus).

---

### Post by Feyerbrand on 2012-10-05
well my issue also is that there are 2 versions of the NVidia drivers available and I have been using the "Suggested" version.  I haven't switched because I figured the OS new what it was talking about with the suggested.

I used the Unity 2D and though it seemed to run "Better" when it came to execution of apps it was still sluggish.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2012-10-05
I am not a Nvidia user, so I don't know the answer.

Here's what the Ubuntu site has to say: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)

Also I am sure I have seen a couple of threads on these forums about the Nvidia Ion hardware, you may wish to do a Search. :)

---

### Post by Feyerbrand on 2012-10-05
Thanks, I will keep tweaking it and report back with what I did in the OP to make my device better.

---

