---
title: "{16.04} - [remove login keyring]"
date: 2016-11-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-23
* user password does not work for this popup, why?
* why does it popup when 'auto login' is off, and user acc has a pw?
* is this separate from a regular pw? is it different?
* is it good to remove?

same exact problem as [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2322858](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2322858)

---

### Post by CantankRus on 2016-11-23
On a new install, the login.keyring password is the same as your user password and is unlocked
when you login at the greeter.
If you autologin the user, the login.keyring is not unlocked and you will get the dialog to unlock the login.keyring.

If auto login is off and you still see the dialog to unlock the login.keyring it means your user login and login.keyring passwords don't match.
You can delete the login.keyring and a new one will be created using the same password as your user login.
[COLOR="#FF0000"]***[/COLOR]This will delete any passwords you may have saved for websites or email apps.
```
rm -i ~/.local/share/keyrings/login.keyring
```
Hit the "y" key then Enter to confirm removal.

**[SIZE=3]or[/SIZE]**

This is copied straight out of the **Ubuntu Desktop Guide** which is available by entering "help" in the dash.
Change the keyring password
If you change your login password, it may become out of sync with the keyring password. The keyring keeps you from having to remember lots of different passwords by just requiring one master password to access them all. If you change your user password (see above), your keyring password will remain the same as your old password. To change the keyring password (to match your login password):
[LIST=1]
[*]Open the Passwords and Keys application from the Dash.
[*]In the View menu, ensure By keyring is checked.
[*]In the sidebar under Passwords, right-click on Login keyring and select Change Password.
[*]Enter your Old Password, followed by your new Password, and Confirm your new password by entering it again.
[*]Click OK.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-23
dont' know why this happens -- "[COLOR=#000000]login.keyring it means your user login and login.keyring passwords don't match"

"[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]If you change your login password, it may become out of sync with the keyring password... If you change your user password (see above), your keyring password will remain the same as your old password"

[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]* how to prevent this syncing problem from happening? why does the syncing problem occur?

doesn't look like you can use that code when rooted, but it's probably fixed

--

doesn't look like there's any easy way to find the solution by googling, etc.



--

so best thing to do is to ** 1) understand, ** 2) prevent it from happening

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-11-23
@ linuxhard:

Please stop adding links from your posts to your other threads about different subjects.

---

### Post by CantankRus on 2016-11-23
The passwords just don't unsync themselves. You changed one or the other.
The reason it's happening is because unlike Windows, Linux assumes you know what you're doing and allows you to access all parts
of your system which you seem to be doing and making a right mess of.

The reason the command I gave didn't work is because **~/.local/share/keyrings/login.keyring** points to a file in **your** homefolder.
The tilde "**~**" is short for the users home folder eg **/home/linuxhard** so path is **/home/linuxhard**/.local/share/keyrings/login.keyring
If you're running as root the path becomes **/root**/.local/share/keyrings/login.keyring which is a completely different path and the file doesn't exist.

Furthermore if you are running as root or using sudo indiscriminately you're wasting everyones time 
trying to find out why things aren't working.

Nothing wrong with breaking things if you want to delve deeper than you should at this stage but be prepared to
start afresh,reinstall and learn.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-12-07
"[COLOR=#000000]You changed one or the other."

so why doesnt it sync properly like it's suppose to ?


because everyoen else has this problem just like the link i posted above shows

this shows linux isn't working properly if everyone is having similar problems that i have[/COLOR]

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-12-07
Is everyone having this problem?

---

### Post by lisati on 2016-12-07
> **QIII said:**
> Is everyone having this problem?

I'm not, therefore "everyone" is not havin this problem.

---

