---
title: "default xorg.conf"
date: 2008-12-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by SpoonyCK on 2008-12-22
Hey guys, I'm pretty new to ubuntu, obviously as I am in the beginner talk. My xorg.conf is ridiculously watered down. Literally it just says default stuff everywhere. I don't want to mess with it as it has messed up my booting several times, but I would like to be able to configure things like monitor resolution, which I cannot do if everything just says default. Here is the file.

[HTML]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"fglrx"
EndSection
[/HTML]

I have an ATI Radeon 1400 (I've heard this graphics card ***** up all the time.) and an Inspiron E1705

---

### Post by Hospadar on 2008-12-22
Well, you can just make a backup copy ```
 sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
``` before you fiddle with it.

The parts of xorg.conf that manage resolutions function basically the same way as they always did (when it had a lot more stuff in it) but a lot of things are configured elsewhere, I suspect to help facilitate hotplugging of stuff and more dynamic settings.

That said, to my knowlege you can still hand-configure all the stuff you used to be able to do.

---

### Post by namdung on 2008-12-22
Reboot in Recovery Mode and fix Xorg Server.

---

