---
title: "&quot;you are not priviledged to mount the volume&quot;"
date: 2008-11-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ringomoon on 2008-11-20
hello! somebody pliz help! i cannot open any removable drives in my ubuntu. i get "you are not priviledged to mount the volume". been going through the fprum and i think i messed up my fstab by following some instructions. or maybe its not the fstab. pliz help!:(:(:(:(

---

### Post by shoot2kill on 2008-11-20
what command are you using to try to mount the drive ??

using sudo ??

---

### Post by handydan918 on 2008-11-20
please post the output of ```
cat /etc/fstab
```


How have you been trying to mount the drives? Are you using sudo?

---

### Post by fiendishfish on 2008-11-20
Hello,

Are you trying to mount the device as root, if not, that is certainly necessary!

Mount it like this:

```
sudo mount /dev/DEVICE /mount/location/
```

Obviously you must replace 'DEVICE' with the device name i.e. sdb sda  (If you don't know the device name, try running dmesg after the insertion of the removable drive.)

In DMESG I got:

> [sdb] Attached SCSI removable disk 

Which shows me that sdb is the device name.

Also you have to pick a location to mount the volume, which in my example was represented by /mount/location/.

---

### Post by simtaalo on 2008-11-20
this might help

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?&t=283131](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?&t=283131)

---

### Post by ringomoon on 2008-11-20
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=3fe87825-2689-44dd-ae52-0aa6c644eda0 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro,relatime 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=cae66cc2-a431-4c45-9d6b-f535c4e7716d none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/hd-ntfs ntfs-3g defaults,force 0 0

---

### Post by ringomoon on 2008-11-20
above is the output for "cat /etc/fstab"

---

### Post by ringomoon on 2008-11-20
thanks simtaalo for the link but all that info is confusing as i'm not good with commands. would like help that is really based on my system not general info.

---

### Post by ringomoon on 2008-11-20
liz@liz-laptop:~$ sudo fdisk -l
[sudo] password for liz: 

Disk /dev/sda: 60.0 GB, 60011642880 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 7296 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xa9af31bf

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        6992    56163208+  83  Linux
/dev/sda2            6993        7296     2441880    5  Extended
/dev/sda5            6993        7296     2441848+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
Note: sector size is 2048 (not 512)

Disk /dev/sdb: 521 MB, 521535488 bytes
173 heads, 46 sectors/track, 32 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 7958 * 2048 = 16297984 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xae5512c6

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1          32      509220    b  W95 FAT32
Partition 1 has different physical/logical beginnings (non-Linux?):
     phys=(0, 0, 46) logical=(0, 1, 1)

Disk /dev/sdc: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x82923533

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1               1       19457   156288321    7  HPFS/NTFS

---

### Post by ringomoon on 2008-11-20
liz@liz-laptop:~$ sudo blkid
/dev/sda1: UUID="3fe87825-2689-44dd-ae52-0aa6c644eda0" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sda5: TYPE="swap" UUID="cae66cc2-a431-4c45-9d6b-f535c4e7716d" 
/dev/sdb1: LABEL="LIZ_O" UUID="E44C-F18E" TYPE="vfat" 
/dev/sdc1: UUID="EC28EC0C28EBD39C" LABEL="syla" TYPE="ntfs"

---

### Post by shoot2kill on 2008-11-21
which device are you trying to mount ??

look at the fdisk output..

then type into console

```
sudo mount /dev/sdXX /media/Mount_Label
```

replace XX witht he required drive ID from fdisk, and replace Mount_Label with what you want ubuntu to label the HDD

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2008-11-21
It could be that you didn`t unmount your ntfs drive. The 160gig one.

Try to fix it like so.D
[SIZE="6"]
DO NOT DO THIS ON A MOUNTED DRIVE[/SIZE]

Just copy and paste

```
sudo apt-get install ntfsprogs
```

This will install a little app that can help with ntfs.

Then ```
sudo ntfsfix /dev/sdc1
```

When you fail to unmount a ntfs drive it creates a little error log that prevents ubuntu from mounting it. ntfsfix clears the log.

Read about it first


[http://man.linux-ntfs.org/ntfsfix.8.html](http://man.linux-ntfs.org/ntfsfix.8.html)

[http://www.linux-ntfs.org/doku.php?id=ntfsfix](http://www.linux-ntfs.org/doku.php?id=ntfsfix)

---

### Post by madverb on 2008-11-21
Is your user in all the necessary groups?

Something like:
> adm dialout cdrom floppy audio dip video plugdev fuse lpadmin admin sambashare

---

### Post by ringomoon on 2008-11-21
thanks guys but i tried all the above and nothing worked. tryna get removable devices mounted, all recognized but not priviledged to mount them.Pliz look at the earlier output, i think problem is wit fstab but since i'm not good wit it i cant be sure which part i messed up. and oh, i did install the nfst thingy...
thanks

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-11-21
Let's recap a few things.

1. Is the fstab listed in post #6 complete?
2. Which devices (sdX) and format are you having trouble with?
3. If you dual boot, have you tried placing any removable drive back into the system and then done a normal shutdown from within windows?
3a. If you tried that and it didn't work, have you tried the 'ntfsfix' option of ntfsprogs? See post #12.
4. Have you checked System, Administration, Users & Groups. Unlock > highlight your name > Properties > User Privileges. Is "Access external ... automatically" checked?
5. In the last line of your fstab, you have the 'force' option. If sdb1 (hd-ntfs) is not critical to your system and is one of the drives not mounting properly, try placing a comment symbol # in front to disable this line temporarily.

---

### Post by ringomoon on 2008-11-21
> **drs305 said:**
> Let's recap a few things.

1. Is the fstab listed in post #6 complete?
2. Which devices (sdX) and format are you having trouble with?
3. If you dual boot, have you tried placing any removable drive back into the system and then done a normal shutdown from within windows?
3a. If you tried that and it didn't work, have you tried the 'ntfsfix' option of ntfsprogs? See post #12.
4. Have you checked System, Administration, Users & Groups. Unlock > highlight your name > Properties > User Privileges. Is "Access external ... automatically" checked?
5. In the last line of your fstab, you have the 'force' option. If sdb1 (hd-ntfs) is not critical to your system and is one of the drives not mounting properly, try placing a comment symbol # in front to disable this line temporarily.

yes to #1 and #3a. used to dual boot but i now only have ubuntu. and i managed to mount with the codes

sudo mkdir /media/hd-ntfs
sudo mount -t ntfs-3g UUID=EC28EC0C28EBD39C /media/hd-ntfs -o force

but now i cant unmount, i get error msg "not priviledged to unmount"

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-11-21
```
sudo umount /media/hd-ntfs
```

---

### Post by SuperSonic4 on 2008-11-21
> **ringomoon said:**
> yes to #1 and #3a. used to dual boot but i now only have ubuntu. and i managed to mount with the codes

sudo mkdir /media/hd-ntfs
sudo mount -t ntfs-3g UUID=EC28EC0C28EBD39C /media/hd-ntfs -o force

but now i cant unmount, i get error msg "not priviledged to unmount"

I'd put ```
sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sdc1 /media/hd-ntfs -o force
```

to unmount try ```
sudo umount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sdc1
```

---

