---
title: "[SOLVED] Enabling /swap on separate hard drive"
date: 2008-07-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sydbat on 2008-07-01
I apologize in advance for the length of this post. There is a question, a very important one, at the end.

I was getting frustrated with trying to do a clean install of Hardy 64-bit. I was able to do the wubi thing, but wanted to have an actual GNU/Linux system to boot into, instead of relying on Windows for it's continued operation. So I took the plunge and...couldn't get Ubuntu anything...no Grub, nothing...straight into Windows. I searched through the forum trying to find an answer, but always had the same result...no joy.

I built my box (well, rebuilt several times over the years would more accurate) and had little trouble with Windows (as it were). But I wanted something more. The current configuration is an AMD X2, 2G RAM, blah, blah, and two hard drives - one IDE, the other SATA. This is where the trouble started with the Ubuntu install. I read every thread (or so it seemed) about 'terminal' this and 'sudo grub' that (hyperbole), but nothing worked...at all. 

However, in one thread, someone posted a link or made a suggestion or something (I apologize, I have been up for over 24 hours and cannot remember every detail) that basically said to unplug the IDE then install. At the point I read this, I had already "installed" for the 4th time using a 4th partitioning scheme, setting the /swap onto the IDE and /, /home on the SATA. The instructions were to go through the LiveCD install, but not to format and allow the choice in step 7 to be default (I had also tried changing where grub would go on the previous 4 installs to no avail). OK. Seeing as I had unplugged the IDE, which has /swap, I just chose / and /home for install, ignored the "you need swap you idiot" warning and...bada-bing...grub allowing me to boot into either OS. YAY!!

Then (you knew this was coming), after booting into Ubuntu and having waves of joy sweep over me, I shutdown and plugged the IDE drive back in...booted...and got 2 Windows choices (XP and "Default Windows"...no grub). I chose XP and got in, no problem, restarted, chose "Default Windows" and got an error (something like no such hard drive). Weird. Then I thought about all the stuff I had read trying to get grub going in the first place...I go into BIOS and find that the IDE drive has usurped the SATA completely. I changed the settings to correct the problem and...YAY...Grub and Ubuntu and XP all living happily ever after...you get the idea.

Now, after updating everything, I realized that it took longer than it did when Ubuntu was a wubi install. As far as I can tell, my swap partition on the IDE drive is not being accessed at all. In XP, I could easily choose how big and where I wanted the swap (OK...page file). In fact, XP is on the SATA and I had the swap on the IDE...exactly where I now have an unused Ubuntu GNU/Linux swap partition waiting alone with no one to play with.

Now, after going through all that (hopefully to help others with similar problems), my question is, how do I enable /swap on the separate hard drive? Do I have to 'create' it for Ubuntu to use it (meaning, reformat as /swap...which would be fine)? If so, how would I do that. If it is something else, please explain in relatively easy terms.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by kuja on 2008-07-01
Lets say you have an empty partition at /dev/sdb2. To format it as swap you would run "sudo mkswap /dev/sdb2". Then a line like ```
/dev/sdb2 swap swap defaults 0 0
``` added to the /etc/fstab file should make linux use it.

---

### Post by sydbat on 2008-07-01
Cool. I'll give it a try and let you know.

EDIT - should I reboot after this?

---

### Post by sydbat on 2008-07-01
OK...it sort of worked. After rebooting, the /swap is recognized and seems to be swapping away. However, it kinda broke my automounts with the ntfs partitions on that drive. I now have extra stuff in fstab```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc                                       /proc            proc         defaults                     0  0  
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=d00a841a-b4fa-4e32-811b-ce61399a0b55  /                ext3         relatime,errors=remount-ro   0  1  
# Entry for /dev/sda8 :
UUID=e9ef937d-8190-404a-80b2-ce74a8ffd040  /home            ext3         relatime                     0  2  
/dev/hda                                   /media/cdrom0    udf,iso9660  user,noauto,exec,utf8        0  0  
/dev/sdb8                                  /media/Storage   ntfs-3g      defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8  0  0  
/dev/sdb7                                  /media/Docs      ntfs-3g      defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8  0  0  
/dev/sdb6                                  /media/Email     ntfs-3g      defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8  0  0  
/dev/sda7                                  /media/Music     ntfs-3g      defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8  0  0  
/dev/sda6                                  /media/Programs  ntfs-3g      defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8  0  0  
/dev/sda1                                  /media/XP      ntfs-3g      defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8  0  0  
/dev/sdb5                                  /swap            swap         defaults                     0  0  
/dev/hdb6                                  /media/Email     ntfs         nls=iso8859-1,umask=000      0  0  
/dev/hdb7                                  /media/Docs      ntfs         nls=iso8859-1,umask=000      0  0  
/dev/hdb8                                  /media/Storage   ntfs         nls=iso8859-1,umask=000      0  0  
```It seems alright up to /swap, then the last three are duplicates. Can I delete them safely? I think they were created when I tried to use the 'Storage Device Manager' (System > Administration >) to enable the automount feature.

Also, this has broken my desktop shortcuts that were working before the reboot (ones linked to the IDE drive). I can access everything through 'Places', but I want to get the shortcuts back to where they were...cuz I know if I change them and then remove those 3 lines...

---

### Post by sydbat on 2008-07-01
Well...I took a stab and rebooted again and...voila! Everything seems to be working correctly. Thank you for your help kuja!

---

