---
title: "11.04 or 11.10?"
date: 2011-08-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rkakkar on 2011-08-27
Gotta install ubuntu on a new machine. Should I go with 11.04 or 11.10? People say 11.04 has issues with Unity, so is it worth going for 11.10 in its current state? What do you'll recommend?

---

### Post by saltmarshlamb on 2011-08-27
If you are happy dealing with breakages and possibly not having a machine that's bootable at times go for 11.10. 

Depending on what you think the issues are with unity then they might not be going away in 11.10 ...

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2011-08-27
11.04. If you're posting in ABT, you aren't going to want to use a version that hasn't been released yet. The issue that people have with Unity in 11.04 is that 11.04 comes with Unity and they don't like it. That isn't going to change.

---

### Post by akand074 on 2011-08-27
Unity in 11.10 though is much better. It's also running over Gnome 3 so easy to install Gnome-shell. It's also such a huge improvement (probably the biggest improvement I've personally seen from Ubuntu).

You can install 11.04 and then upgrade/do clean install later. Though Ubuntu 11.10 beta comes out in like a week or so right? I found the betas have generally been pretty stable. But you're right, for someone in absolute beginner it's likely best to use a stable release.

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-08-27
I'd recommend trying 11.04. If you don't like it or it doesn't work (and you still want Unity), try 11.10.
If Natty doesn't work, I'd suggest Maverick or Lucid (especially Lucid).

---

### Post by madjr on 2011-08-27
11.10 is alpha dude.

lots of stuff are not finished or dont work yet.

but you can try it out and see.

i think the beta is coming next week.

but if you want something that works now use natty.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-08-27
I recommend 11.04 (the current release) if you want the latest "stuff" or 10.04 (the current long-term support or LTS release) if you want a very stable system with slightly older software.

I would never recommend pre-release (11.10) to an absolute beginner. :)

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-08-27
Recommend against using anything pre-release, including Betas, unless you are willing to work with things breaking and industrious enough to work through the details of making repairs.

That is NOT someone new to Linux.

Also, if you Do decide to jump into 11.10 -- since that is not released yet, do NOT post problems you have to this forum.  This forum is for released versions, not pre-released versions.  Instead, post your questions to the appropriate Development forum.

---

