---
title: "Really Really Really Really Messed Up!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
date: 2008-05-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by fignig on 2008-05-05
THIS IS WHAT MY XORG.CONF FILE LOOKS LIKE:


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"


I REALLY ****** UP AND RAN sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg LIKE EVERYONE SAID TO AND I ONLY HAVE 640/480 SCREEN RESOLUTION AND IT'S HURTING MY EYES, I CAN BARELY SEE THE WINDOWS B/C THEY'RE SO BIG, AND A LOT OF MY PROGRAMS CAN NOT RUN B/C OF THIS NEW RESOLUTION. SO WHOEVER SAID TO RUN THAT RECONFIGURE THING IS BULL. DO NOT EVER RUN IT, IT WILL FUK UR SYSTEM UP!!!!!

HOW DO I CHANGE IT AND GET IT BACK TO NORMAL? I HAVE MY MX510 MOUSE, AND I WANT 1024X768 SCREEN RESOLUTION.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

---

### Post by PinkFloyd102489 on 2008-05-05
Ok, after several minutes of trying to decipher your post, I have come to the following conclusion. You did it wrong.

Running a dpkg-reconfigure on xserver-xorg should have prompted you to select the resolutions you want to run. Do it again and select the resolutions by using the arrow keys to select the resolution and then hit the Spacebar to put a * beside it, meaning that resolution will be included in the reconfigure.

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2008-05-05
I second what PinkFloyd said.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-05-05
Whoever said run "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" in Hardy if you had a working system -well never mind. It only configures keyboard and mouse. you need system>prefs>screenres.

Look in /etc/X11 for you old xorg.conf and you can use that.

Other than that there's xfix from grub recovery mode.

xorg.conf in hardy is a stub file now.

---

### Post by fignig on 2008-05-05
> **PinkFloyd102489 said:**
> Ok, after several minutes of trying to decipher your post, I have come to the following conclusion. You did it wrong.

Running a dpkg-reconfigure on xserver-xorg should have prompted you to select the resolutions you want to run. Do it again and select the resolutions by using the arrow keys to select the resolution and then hit the Spacebar to put a * beside it, meaning that resolution will be included in the reconfigure.

it never really asked what screen resolution i wanted, all it said was about my keyboard and such. nothing about screen or desktop resolution.......

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-05-05
If the op's driver's are installed the the reconfigure should have helped
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=781217](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=781217)

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-05-05
There are no screen resolution or graphics driver options in hardy when you use "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg"

---

### Post by Tatty on 2008-05-05
> **philinux said:**
> There are no screen resolution or graphics driver options in hardy when you use "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg"

This is something I have only just started to become aware of - is this because of the better autodetection in the new Xorg?  What is the correct procedure for fixing resolution problems now? :)

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-05-05
Yes that's right. There's xfix from the recovery mode. I've never used it so I cant comment. I must be lucky all working here.

---

### Post by jimv on 2008-05-05
Ok, here's a question that no one asked yet.

What kind of video card do you have? 

If you don't know, paste the results of typing 'lspci' in a terminal

---

### Post by avtolle on 2008-05-05
> **Tatty said:**
> This is something I have only just started to become aware of - is this because of the better autodetection in the new Xorg?  What is the correct procedure for fixing resolution problems now? :)

I don't know the answer to "What is the correct procedure....?", but xfix didn't do it for me. What I ended up doing was to manually edit my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to include the follwing information therein. As I'm using ppc, and my problems are not directly related to the OP's problem, in general what I needed to do was as follows:

Under section "Monitor", added
HorizSync (Values from same file under 7.10; in my case, 28-51)
VertRefresh (Values from same file under 7.10; in my case, 43-60)

Under section "Screen" added the following after "Configured Monitor":
SubSection "Display"
Modes "1024x768" (again, values from the 7.10 xorg.conf file)
EndSubSection

Then, I needed to add a Section "DRI", which reads:
Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection

This is how I manually edited the file, and it works. Of course, it goes without saying that the former xorg.conf file is invaluable for this purpose. The precise values for your monitor, etc., need to be added, obviously.

Good luck. There are many threads on this forum and the sub-forums dealing with this problem. It may well be one of them will help; several give precise information for a variety of graphics cards and monitors.

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2008-05-06
> **philinux said:**
> There are no screen resolution or graphics driver options in hardy when you use "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg"

What idiot made that change?  Vote to fix it on brainstorm [here]("http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/7655/").

---

