---
title: ".sh file for Vassal turning to text"
date: 2014-05-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Rockwell32001 on 2014-05-07
Hi all.  I'm an absolute newb to ubuntu/linux, so nothing makes sense.  I'm trying to install a program called vassal to my computer.  It's a board game engine.  The instructions say to double click a .sh file after extracting from an .rar.  I did that, and all it does is turn into text.  No install.  Please help, with the realization that I don't know what I'm doing.  Thanks a mill.

Oh yeah, I'm running ubuntu 14.04 on an Asus k50I laptop.

---

### Post by Dreamer Fithp Apprentice on 2014-05-07
Before I say how to do it, I should mention, that you should have some reason to think this script is from some reasonably trustable source before you run it. If you aren't sure about that you might open it with a text editor
and READ it to see if you see anything suspicous.

Be that as it may . . .

First, make sure the rar is on a native filesystem like ext4. Sometimes strange things can happen when trying to install a program when the the archive or the executable you extract from it is on an NTFS or FAT filesystem.

You probably need to right click on that .sh file and click the permissions tab (It's been a while since I've used Nautilus, having abandoned it for Thunar so I may be slightly off on UI details but you'll figure it out) and then check a box described as something like "let file be executed" and close the properties window. Then, instead of double clicking it, the response to which varies with details of your setup, I suggest you right click on it and click copy. Then open a terminal and paste what you just copied (at this point it is really just the path and filename, not the file itself, which confuses some people). Now what happens varies with the terminal and the browser you copied the file from. In some cases you may have to back up the beginning of the line and press the delete key repeatedly to get rid of "file:///" or something of that nature the precedes the actual path to and filename of the file "copied" to the command line. The proper line should look something like:
/some/path/to/somescript.sh
Then press enter. If you get some kind of error message asking "Are you root?", "Use sudo", "root priveleges required", "permission denied" or something of that sort try again but insert "sudo " before the "/path/to/script.sh".

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-05-07
While you're at it, skim through this. It's very educational as far as ''.sh'' goes.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Beginners/BashScripting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Beginners/BashScripting)

---

### Post by grumblebum2 on 2014-05-07
The original guide to double click on the .sh file failed because 
the default operation when opening executable files has changed to "view".
In nautilus > edit > preferences
Change "Executable Text Files" to "Ask each time".

---

