---
title: "installing ubuntu from a flashdrive - unique situation"
date: 2014-01-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by albnutty on 2014-01-04
hello everyone,

awhile ago an asus notebook of ours crashed completely. one day i went to turn it on, and system32 was completely missing. this is probably because of a virus, but anyway, at the time it was running windows XP. my dad, who is pretty proficient in ubuntu, told me i could revive the netbook by running ubuntu on it via a flashdrive, sort of using the flashdrive as an external hard drive. i have a 32gb flashdrive which i've configured to be bootable with ubuntu, but when i boot up the netbook with the flashdrive connected and open the bios, there's no option to boot from the USB. i think i would have to configure the bios settings within windows XP, but since system32 is gone there's no way i can get into windows XP at all. is there any way i can get ubuntu to boot up in the netbook in this situation?

ps - this is what the bios menu looks like. maybe there's a usb option here and i'm just missing something?

[IMG]https://31.media.tumblr.com/917caf44bd1addb1a81d4d670db736fb/tumblr_myv38db7Tu1qiek00o1_500.jpg[/IMG]

thanks so much!

---

### Post by r3dd on 2014-01-04
Some bios have different keys. My laptop requires me to press F12 to acccess the bios boot menu. My desktop requires F8. So see which one your bios requires to access the menu. That is the windows boot menu, and you can't get in to the boot from usb option from there.

EDIT: If you do not have a screen that shows bios options then fast boot is probably turned on. With the system turned off, hold the F12 key and then turn it on. It could be F8 or F2, it just depends on the bios.

---

### Post by albnutty on 2014-01-04
F12 didn't work, neither did holding it before turning the computer on. the hard drive is corrupted, so when i turn it on all i get is a screen telling me system32 is missing.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-04
The picture in your screenshot is not the BIOS and there is no way of getting to the BIOS via xp or any other operating system. The OS has nothing to do with the BIOS (as far as changing anything in there or seeing it).

Your screenshot is generated by Windows stuff so you still have remnants of it there.

You need to hit the BIOS key directly after boot and before the BIOS screen. Search on line or look in the manual to find which key it is. Sometimes F12, F1, F2, Delete, Escape ... numerous. 

When you get to the actual BIOS (not that screenshot) you will find the boot options where you can change the order of boot devices. You will have the option to boot from USB whether you have any USB device plugged in or not.

PS: What happens when you select one of the options from your screenshot? It doesn't boot Windows???

---

### Post by albnutty on 2014-01-04
okay thank you! and if i choose any one of the options from that screenshot, it tries to boot up and fails, going back to the 'no system32' screen.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-04
Ok, well the screenshot is the 'Windows Advanced Options Menu' so I'm imagining its boot loader is still there if nothing else.

---

### Post by albnutty on 2014-01-04
Thanks for all your help guys! I was able to access the BIOS by repeatedly pressing F2 as soon as I turned the computer on, and now I have a netbook with nice shiny Ubuntu on it. :)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-04
Excellent news! To help others, please mark thread as solved (instructions in my signature) and post a new thread for any further issues. Enjoy the OS, the forums and the learning curve. ;)

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2014-01-05
If you like what you see in Ubuntu, you will find it runs much nicer from hard disk than from USB.
Use the Install option, use full disk, to install Ubuntu, you have nothing to loose.

---

