---
title: "9.10 Battery Warning Message"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by hankc1949 on 2009-11-02
Wow!! After reading some of the posts with so many problems with the new 9.10, I feel really lucky and silly that I can't find an answer to this "minor" annoyance for myself. I run a Asus eee900. I've tried all the flavours of Ubuntu over this last year and I have come up against this issue before; but the fix was easy. I get this Warning message at start-up that my battery is broken and its only charged to 1.9% or some such nonsense. With Hardy and I think with 9.04 there was a check box to never show this message again. There were also numerous scripts that handled this problem as well as other fixes. Well someone please tell me how to turn this "Warning" off. When the battery icon is showing in the "Panel" it confirms fully charged. So far this is the only problem I'm having. I formatted my two drives as follows: 4gig /, 5gig /usr, 11gig /home, no swap. So far 9.10 is running quite nicely thank you. Didn't think I'd like the NBR but with so little real estate on this box its quite handy.  Hankc

---

### Post by gunashekar on 2009-11-02
I have the same message "battery is broken" on booting. I did not have that in 9.04 but i remember a similar issue with power management when a new version was released. The problem was resolved later. I think we must file bugs. 
I also had my speaker, volume buttons on the keyboard working and those have stopped working. Other than these i have no issue with 9.10 and I like it.

---

### Post by tellthestory on 2009-11-30
This is a known bug manifested in gnome-power-manager and is documented as such:

https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/devicekit-power/+bug/403303
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-power-manager/+bug/460631

As a work around, from the command line:

gconftool-2 --set /apps/gnome-power-manager/notify/low_capacity --type bool 0

worked for me to eliminate the warnings when I log in to my eeepc 701.

You will find other references to this issue at:

http://art.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8325717
http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=78255

Hope some of this information helps.

/tell

---

