---
title: "14.04.2 LTS Installation Troubleshoot"
date: 2015-04-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by joseph59 on 2015-04-29
Hello everyone!
Just assembled my new pc, specs are:
CPU- AMD FX-600 
MotherBoard- MSI 760GMA-P34 
GPU/Video Card- Zotac GeForce GTX 750 Ti 
Ram- Crucial Ballistix 8GB 
HDD- Western Digital Blue 1 TB 
Power Supply- XFX Core Edition PRO550W

[INDENT]Here's my problem: I've installed Ubuntu 14.04.2 LTS via USB. My PC boots, I select try Ubuntu, then proceed to install as normal. When it restarts, it takes me back to the screen where I can select to try Ubuntu, install it, OEM installation, or check the disk for defects. I tried to reinstall the OS via DVD, changed the BIOS boot order to make the DVD first, then proceeded to reinstall Ubuntu. The installation seems to work, it spits the disk out and it asks me to press enter to restart the computer. I take the DVD out, the computer restarts, then it tells me there are no bootable devices! 
I am now attempting boot repair from a USB. I'm not sure what to do next. Any help from you folks would be greatly appreciated![/INDENT]

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-04-29
joseph59; Hello;

Let's backup just a bit and regroup.
As you have the Nvidia GeForce GTX 750 Ti as the graphics card, there is a slight problem.
There is no driver available for 14.04 in the software repository. We have to get that driver from an outside source. (PPA)

So as the 1st approximation to resolution, can you boot the liveUSB into the "try ubuntu" mode ...You may have to employ the 'nomodeset' boot parameter to force using the default fall back graphics driver.

If you can boot the liveUSB -> try ubuntu mode, then using that medium we look at the install .

[INDENT][INDENT]we can do this
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-04-29
> then proceed to install as normal. When it restarts, it takes me back to  the screen where I can select to try Ubuntu, install it,

That happened because the Ubuntu USB stick was still in the USB port and the machine was set to boot from the USB port.

> I take the DVD out, the computer restarts, then it tells me there are no bootable devices!

Either Ubuntu did not install or the machine is set to boot from the DVD drive without a hard drive being listed as the next device to look on for an OS. Check the settings in the boot system (BIOS/UEFI).

Use the live session to examine the hard disk to see if the Ubuntu files are there. My old motherboard with a BIOS will see a USB memory stick with Ubuntu on it as an external USB disk. Depending on the BIOS settings I have chosen the motherboard may not detect a Ubuntu live USB stick or look for an external USB disk which may no longer be plugged in. Changing boot priority is not enough. I have to select which drive to boot.

Regards.

---

### Post by Geoffrey_Arndt on 2015-04-29
Joseph59 . . do you happen to recall how you handled the bootloader part of the installation?   Did you go with the default (sda)?    I'm also assuming this is not a multi-boot system (dual OS's), and that it is a UEFI firmware device.

---

