---
title: "[10.10] External monitor causing CPU/RAM spike?"
date: 2011-03-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nathan.hopson on 2011-03-31
Running fully updated 10.10 (x64) on Dell XPS M1330 w/ fully updated Nvidia proprietary driver (260.19.06) for GeForce 8400M GS.

Experiencing hideous CPU/RAM spikes and incredibly laggy performance, including regular complete stalls (no crashes yet) of up to 30sec or so whenever I attach an external monitor. 

Worst when watching video online, which suggests to me that Flash (also fully updated) is part of the problem. Same laptop did not experience this issue with Win7. so I at first suspected Flash and/or browsers, but crapy performance is browser independent and cannot be duplicated in Win7, nor with just the internal laptop screen. 

Am I being naive to expect that Ubuntu can handle a 22" external monitor with an Intel Core 2 Duo 2.2GHz T7500 processor and 2.5GB of RAM? My past experience was always that Linux distros tended to be easier on mid- to low-range machines. Do I need to dumb down the Nvidia settings? (If so, what should I change?)

Please let me know what info would help in diagnosing and resolving this issue. 

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by RLCGRN on 2011-04-01
I'm new to Ubuntu as well, but maybe my experience can help here.  I installed the open source Gnash to watch youtube videos, and it would eat up my cpu, running it up to above 90% usage, as well as high ram use.  I removed all the open source players, then only installed Adobe brand "Flash".  I'm not a stickler for all things being open source, I just want my computer to work.  Now my youtube watching doesn't hog up CPU and drastically slow my computer.  I hope this helps!

---

