---
title: "9.04 upgrade"
date: 2009-07-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-09
I have almost completed the upgrade to 9.04.  There is a screen asking me

"replace the customized configuration file

'/etc/vim/vimrc.tiny'?

do i click 

keep   or  replace  and what is this?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-07-09
Do either.

Unless you use the Vim text editor, it will not make a difference at all.

The warning basically says "You've changed a configuration file at this location, but the package I'm installing wants to overwrite your changes". Keep is where it keeps your changes, Replace is where it replaces your file with the package's default file.

---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-11
I have just upgraded my desktop to 8:10 and when the system restarted I got the log in page and I logged in and the music played, giving me the indication that i successfully logged in and then the screen went blue for about 5 mins but the desktop never came up.   The black screen came up eventually with all the words to it and then the system cut itself off.  I  restarted and then I went to the second recovery option and the same thing happened except I just turn it off at the terminal to reboot.  I cut off  this time logged into XP and the resolution was wayyyyy off and then I had to go in and change it but after that it wasnt very crisp as it were before the upgrade to 8:10.  How can i get back to ubuntu 8:10 so i can continue to upgrade to 9.04?

---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-11
can someone please help me

---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-11
i am confused.  i see 56 views and no one has tried to help.  i am sorry if i did something wrong.  i dont know what i did.  i need help my desktop wont show up  i really like linux but i am at stand still with my upgrade.

---

### Post by thiebaude on 2009-07-11
You said you wanted 8.10 back, ok. If your dual booting with Windows XP just insert the Live CD or whatever you used to install 8.10 in the first place, and just re-install 8.10

---

### Post by linux6994 on 2009-07-11
Can you get to a terminal shell at all? If so try to perform:

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade

to get as far updated as possible with what you have.
also do a cat /etc/apt/sources.list and see if heron or jaunty are listed.This will tell you if indeed you have upgraded.

---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-11
I did an install from synaptic from 8.04 to 8.10 with hopes of going to 9.04.  The 8.10 finished and when i restarted the log in screen came up and i logged in with my username and password, it accepted it but the desktop never came up and now all i have is a blue screen.  i am sure the 8.10 installed and i do have the 9.04 on disc, is it easier just to install from the 9.04 disc now and if so how do i do it if i already have the xp and 8.10 partioned.  Can I install it ONLY over the 8.10 without messing up xp and if so how?

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-07-11
> **misswham said:**
> i am confused.  i see 56 views and no one has tried to help.  i am sorry if i did something wrong.  i dont know what i did.  i need help my desktop wont show up  i really like linux but i am at stand still with my upgrade.

I responded to this post previously and it mysteriously disappeared so it may be that someone is deleting responses to your posts...

sad really...

.

---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-11
i dont understand why.  what could i have possibly done?  i have never been rude.  i am confused.  i am a faithful ubuntu user and i ask legitimate questions.  if i did something wrong let me know but my pc is all messed up now and dont know what to do.

---

### Post by Don1500 on 2009-07-11
If you want 8.10 back, you can download the ISO and make a new live CD (I understand you used the Upgrade path the first time). However, it sounds like you really want 9,04 and think you need 8.10 to do an upgrade. I would suggest you save everything (your documents) you want to save and download the 9.04 ISO. Make a live CD and install that way. From what I've seen the 9.04 upgrade can be flaky. I did it that way and had no problem, but I have heard of others that did.

---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-11
i do have the 9.04 cd in now and i am at the partition part.  which one do i choose it is giving me 3 options.  i dont want to get rid of the xp but i want to override the 8.10 with 9.04  what do i do at this point?

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-07-11
> **misswham said:**
> i do have the 9.04 cd in now and i am at the partition part.  which one do i choose it is giving me 3 options.  i dont want to get rid of the xp but i want to override the 8.10 with 9.04  what do i do at this point?

no one hates you, you did nothing wrong, and no one is deleting posts in your thread as LewRock suggested... these forums lose posts sometimes due to how busy and high traffic they are, and the ubuntuforums.org budget limitations ;)

i viewed this thread earlier, but your original problem was beyond my abilities so i did not post in the thread.... im sure most of the 'views' you are worried about are that. if i can't help in a thread, i generally do not post in it. 'if you have nothing nice to say, say nothing at all', and so on. it would do you no good for me to post 'o, hello, i see that you have a problem. i cant help you with it. bye!'... so i just post nothing if i cant help, and most people do the same :)

now that you are simply trying to install 9.04 over 8.10 without hurting windows, we are in the realm of something i can help with, so i am posting :D

when you see the three options, what are they?


it may be easier to do manual partition, so we can ensure we get things right:

you probably have one little bitty partition in the manual partition editor that is swap. leave it be, change nothing on it..

you probably have another partition that is 'ntfs' or 'fat32'. leave that one alone, it is windows. change nothing on it.

and one partition probably says 'ubuntu 8.10' or 'ubuntu 8.04' or perhaps 'ext3'. select that one, format it as ext3, and set its 'mount point' to /.

and you should be all set.


if that is not what you see, then share with us what you have so we can ensure we set you up for success.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-07-11
BAM! found what i was looking for.

[IMG]http://www.techotopia.com/images/4/41/Ubuntu_linux_gparted_main.jpg[/IMG]

that is a fairly standard partition scheme.

the first one is 'ntfs'. that is nerdtalk for 'windows'. 

the one that is ext3? **_that would be our target._** notice that the mountpoint is /.

that last one is 'linux-swap'. no need to change anything there.

your partitions may be in a different order, thats ok.

the big thing is 'ntfs' or 'fat32' = let it be.

**_ext3 = target_**. make sure you set its mount point to /.

linux-swap = whatever, no need to change it.



if what you are looking at is not this same basic setup, please describe what you see so that we can guide you.

---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-11
thank you

prepare disk space

this computer has sever os on it

microsoft xp  (/dev/sda1)   ubuntu 8.10       swap
69.2 gb                     161.2gb            2.5gb

where do u want to put ubuntu 9.04?

 install them side by side, choosing between them each startup

 use the entiere disk

   this will delete microsoft windows xp, ubuntu 8.10 and install 9.04

 spe3cify partitions manually (advanced)

 microsoft xp      ubuntu 8.10         ubuntu 9.04                  swap
 69.2               158.7gb             2.5gb                        2.5gb

i want the xp part but i want to install 9.04 over the entire other part 

what should i press?

---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-11
i have chosen to go to the next screen and i highlighted ext3 and now do i hit edit partition or delete parition?

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-07-11
'format' partition, and set its mount point to '/', then apply.

---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-11
it looks like this

dev/sda

 /dev/sda1   ntfs                           74307mb     39794 mb
 /dev/sda5   ext3                           173035mb    31174mb
 /dev/sda6   swap                           2714mb      0mb



          edit partion     delete partion
undo changes to partitions

                              quit back forawrd

i highlighted the ext3

now do i hit edit partion or delete partion or undo changed to partions then forward

or just forward?

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-07-11
like the picture in the _attachment_ below.

this is just an example, using a thumb drive i had handy... obviously, all of the above about avoiding ntfs or fat32 and targeting ext3 applies.

right clicking and going to 'properties' *or something similar* will let you set a mount point.

(im not actually installing ubuntu as we speak, so i dont remember exactly the words the installer uses)

---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-11
i am so sorry i dont want to sound stupid, i have gone back to preparee disk space and should i choose 

install them side by side, choosing between then each start up

use the entire disk

or 

specify partitions manually


 
i did choose manually at first and chose the ext3 one but do  i hit edit, delete partition or undo changes to partition  if i am supposed to choose manual?

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-07-11
> i am so sorry i dont want to sound stupid, i have gone back to preparee disk space and should i choose 

Your questions are intelligent, not stupid.   Better to ask first to know what to do.

> install them side by side, choosing between then each start up

use the entire disk

or 

specify partitions manually


 
i did choose manually at first and chose the ext3 one but do i hit edit, delete partition or undo changes to partition if i am supposed to choose manual?

Manual is the correct way to go for a dual boot.  

1) Are you going to use a home partition or not?

2) Have you **backed up** your **data**?   There are no 100% guarantees that all will go well.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-07-11
edit partition, and you can use ext4 if you want. mount point "/"

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-07-11
you want manual partition.... as long as the only thing you change is the ext3 partition, you have very little to worry about if you do something wrong.

sef is correct about backing stuff up, however.

if you aren't sure what sef is asking for in regards to 'seperate /home partition', the default answer is 'no'.

manual -> format the ext3 partition and set its mount point to / -> next/continue/apply/whatever it says

:P

---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-11
ok the install went fine now when i did an upgrade and activated the driver for my video card, the same thing happened as before with the upgrade to 8.10 the screen went blank.  this time i tried to lower the resolution because it was too wide over the screen and when i went down to the one below my screen jiggled and went to solid blue.  that is what happened when i upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10.  now i am in 9.04 and i have a blue screen what can i do now?

---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-11
i rebooted and now i am back to a screen that is too big for the monitor and fuzzy.  the driver is activated and the resolution is on auto now i am afraid to change it because i now might get the blue screen again what resolution should i put it to?

---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-11
i have just decided to go back to 8.04, i hate i attempted this now when i put the disc in for 8.04 the screen is too big now i cant see the bottom of the install screen and i cant hit next apply or quit.  i am about to cry dont know what to do


hellllpppp meee  pleze

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-07-11
> **misswham said:**
> i rebooted and now i am back to a screen that is too big for the monitor and fuzzy.  the driver is activated and the resolution is on auto now i am afraid to change it because i now might get the blue screen again what resolution should i put it to?

i suggest creating a new thread with a *descriptive title specific to this problem*, so the *video card gurus* are more likely to see it, click on the thread, and try and help you out.

i've installed ubuntun on a bunch of computers, so i was able to help you with that... but ubuntu has always detected my video cards fine, so i've never had any cause to learn about video card stuff, so i wont be of much use to you here.

good hunting! :D

---

### Post by misswham on 2009-07-12
Thank you sooo much but I have finally successfully gone back to 8.04.  Now I just have to reinstall all of the stuff I had on it that took me a year to do.  

I will just go back through my old threads to figure it out.  None of the upgrades worked with my video card I guess.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-07-12
> **misswham said:**
> Thank you sooo much but I have finally successfully gone back to 8.04.  Now I just have to reinstall all of the stuff I had on it that took me a year to do.  

I will just go back through my old threads to figure it out.  None of the upgrades worked with my video card I guess.

in the future, since your video card has issues, i suggest trying everything on the most recent CD before upgrading to a new version of ubuntu.

you can sudo apt-get install and everything from the live CD to test stuff.... for video-specific stuff that you need to restart to test, you can log out and back in from the live CD to test it.

safest bet is to test run and see if you can get _*everything*_ working on the live cd before installing it.

---

