---
title: "10.10 Release Date?"
date: 2010-10-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-10-01
Hello,

I use Lubuntu instead of Ubuntu, and I am wondering if Maverick Meerkat 10.10 will be released on October 10th, 2010 or later this October.

My computer is currently pretty buggy with Lubuntu 10.04 due to incompatibilities between my intel integrated graphics card and Lubuntu.

I have checked wikipedia, as well as the Ubuntu wiki Lubuntu page and the Lubuntu website and I have been unable to find a clear release date.

If someone could let me know the release date it would be much appreciated.

Cheers,

aust77

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-10-01
I read it was :-)

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2010-10-01
That was what I had read earlier too; but the banner countdown was showing like 10 days left on the 29th, which would mean the 9th of October? So I'm not sure when it's going to be released. I hope they stick with 10/10/2010 =D

EDIT: Just checked, yup still slated for 10/10/10 =D WOOT!!!!

---

### Post by lisati on 2010-10-01
As has been commented on elsewhere, 10-10-10 would be an apt date. (**Hint:** Think in binary.)

---

### Post by TriBlox6432 on 2010-10-01
10-10-10 in binary translated to decimal is 2-2-2 am I correct?  What does this have to do with anything?

Note:  I could be wrong.  I just pulled this out of my head.  I didn't bother to write my cheat table on a piece of paper or anything.

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2010-10-01
10-10-10 = 2-2-2 which could mean:
2 + 2 + 2 = 6
2 * 2 * 2 = 8
2 - 2 - 2 = -2
2 / 2 / 2 = 0.5
2 ^ 2 ^ 2 = 16

Hmm... I don't see the significance - I understand Binary 10-10-10 that is awesome and the binary significance, but other than that I don't see anything else. Am I missing something?

EDIT: OH I GET IT haha
[http://hubpages.com/hub/How-to-Interpret-101010-Sunday-October-10-2010-metaphysics-paranormal-experiment](http://hubpages.com/hub/How-to-Interpret-101010-Sunday-October-10-2010-metaphysics-paranormal-experiment)

---

### Post by migs73 on 2010-10-01
101010 in decimal is 42.
Hitch hikers anyone??

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-10-01
42 - the meaning of life the universe and everything :-D

Hitchikers guide to the galaxy

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2010-10-01
So ubuntu 10.10 is the answer to everything woot! Go Ubuntu!

---

### Post by QIII on 2010-10-01
Yes.  It is the answer.

But the question is still to be determined.

What I would like to know is whether Maverick features Infinite Improbability Drive.

---

### Post by migs73 on 2010-10-01
No that's the release date!
It is only 10 in decimal (1010). So quite a bit short. Maybe they plan 10 upgrades give the extra 1 and 0?

---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-10-01
> **QIII said:**
> Yes.  It is the answer.

But the question is still to be determined.

What I would like to know is whether Maverick features Infinite Improbability Drive.

Which means Maverick will be the answer to the ultimate question, which is unknown.

No more incompatibilities for my graphics card! A perfect OS! Watch out Windows! =D

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2010-10-01
> **aust77 said:**
> Which means Maverick will be the answer to the ultimate question, which is unknown.

No more incompatibilities for my graphics card! A perfect OS! Watch out Windows! =D

The OS is created by people, people are not perfect so an OS can't be perfect. Computers are not always perfect, an example is overclocking which makes a system unstable and overheated.

---

### Post by cgroza on 2010-10-01
They will release it at :   10      10    10    10     10.
                                  >>>>>>>>>>>>>>minute hour day month year

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2010-10-01
> **theozzlives said:**
> The OS is created by people, people are not perfect so an OS can't be perfect. Computers are not always perfect, an example is overclocking which makes a system unstable and overheated.

Shhhh this is a fantasy world.

---

### Post by migs73 on 2010-10-01
What would happen if they overclock the Infinite Improbability Drive??

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-10-01
A finite impossibility drive

---

### Post by QIII on 2010-10-01
All I can say is that I will be mightily pissed if a whale falls out of the sky and lands on me.

---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-10-01
slooksterpsv, the article you found does state the number 10 does generate a warm psychological feeling, but I sure don't enjoy the idea of finishing 10th in a race. ;P

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-10-01
> All I can say is that I will be mightily pissed if a whale falls out of the sky and lands on me.

Thats finitely impossible so it probably won't happen in all improbablility

---

### Post by QIII on 2010-10-01
How do you find the UUID of an Infinite Improbability Drive so you can get it into GRUB2?

---

### Post by migs73 on 2010-10-02
> **QIII said:**
> How do you find the UUID of an Infinite Improbability Drive so you can get it into GRUB2?

You mean GRUB&#8734; :P

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2010-10-02
> **QIII said:**
> How do you find the UUID of an Infinite Improbability Drive so you can get it into GRUB2?

I don't bother with UUID's.  

Do a sudo gedit (or leafpad) /etc/grub.d/06_custom

Key in something like:

#!/bin/sh
exec tail -n +3 $0
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries. Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment. Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above
menuentry "Meerkat Beta on sda13" {
set root=(hd0,13)
linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda13 ro quiet 
initrd /initrd.img
}
menuentry "Lubuntu Beta on sda16" {
set root=(hd0,16)
linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda16 ro quiet
initrd /initrd.img
}

save
sudo chmod 777 /etc/grub.d/06_custom
sudo update-grub
wait......

Then check to see if everything is O.K.:
less /boot/grub/grub.cfg

Scroll down a bit.  You should see the 06_custom entries followed by the usual grub UUID stuff that Grub itself can't handle well.

What this does is link to the most current version of vmlinuz that's in /boot.  If you want to boot another one, just scroll down in the initial boot grub menu which should have your 06_custom entries first followed by all the other UUID blather.

Good luck, Jerry

---

### Post by QIII on 2010-10-03
Eh, you didn't get the joke, I see.

I wasn't looking for a lesson in GRUB2.  I'm pretty well acquainted.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-10-03
I believe its only Ubuntu that will be released on 10.10.10, all the other versions will use the regular release date of 10.28.10.

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2010-10-04
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I believe its only Ubuntu that will be released on 10.10.10, all the other versions will use the regular release date of 10.28.10.

Awww, they're not going to do an: 11-11-11 release? Cause that's:
77 - Octal
63 - Decimal
3F - Hex

Any significance there?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-10-04
Just as long as it's never 110-110-110!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by random turnip on 2010-10-04
The Hitchhikers reference is brilliant, nice one.

---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-10-05
Ugh. I don't mind waiting for another few weeks that much because Lubuntu Beta 2 works very smoothly on my computer. There aren't many major changes, but my i8xx card seems to be fine thus far *knocks on wood*.
I just wish the Lubuntu devs could be just a little more clear on the release date. It's a great distro though, I can't wait to see what's coming up for LXDE.

---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-10-07
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I believe its only Ubuntu that will be released on 10.10.10, all the other versions will use the regular release date of 10.28.10.

Upon reading the Lubuntu website, I think it's being released on 10.10.10 . They said that the Lubuntu Beta 2 (released last week) was going to be the final before the official release. They wouldn't release it in a month's time without giving us another beta or an RC.

---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2010-10-10
[It is out according to this site]("http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/10/lubuntu-10-10-released/"). I am busy downloading to put on my low end machines (been testing it through development stages). What a distro! Fast and efficient.

---

