---
title: "Nvidia Settings"
date: 2009-01-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Brutus2006 on 2009-01-08
I know this must be old Hat for alot of you but Im having problem with my Harware drivers.

I finally got my screen resolution working, but when I want to activate my Nvidia Drivers thru System>Administration>Hardware drivers. I get Cannot Change Driver. Reconfiguring x.org videodrivers is not possible /etc/X11/xorg.conf is invalid.

I have Nvidia 5500GT video card 
Release Ubuntu 8.10 (intrepid)
Intel(R) Pentium(R) 4 CPU 1.60GHz
NVIDIA UNIX x86 Kernel Module  173.14.12  Thu Jul 17 18:11:36 PDT 2008

Also when I go to Nvidia X server Settings I get message that Im not using the Nvidia driver 

This is my etc/X11/xorg.conf 

 xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	HorizSync 28-64
	VertRefresh 43-60
	Modeline "1680x1050_60.00"  147.14  1680 1784 1968 2256  1050 1051 1054 1087  -HSync 		+Vsync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
EndSection


Any help will be appreciated

---

### Post by taseedorf on 2009-01-12
go to nvidia and download the driver for your video card

than shut down x
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
than run the installer for the video card driver.

boom it works

startx

---

