---
title: "12.04 HP DV6700 problems"
date: 2014-04-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by spon78 on 2014-04-08
Hi, I'm a total newbie to linux and am also not very good with computers :(.

I recently did a full install of ubuntu 12.04 on my hp pavilion dv6700 which wasn't easy for a newbie like me due to the laptop having nvidia graphics (which I could see was a common problem)
...anyway, I did all the updates and evreything was fine (and also loving it over windows) for about a week, then I noticed the sound had stopped working, the icon was there but just no sound through speakers or headphones and also the wired internet connection was working sometimes and not others (same went for the wireless connection too).

I turned the laptop off and pulled the battery and power lead off, went back to it an hour later and everything was working fine again until an hour or so later I noticed the sound had stopped again (I hadn't restarted or downloaded anything).

This time I googled around for something to try in 'terminal' and after trying several things (which I dont really know what I was doing) then again using terminal it was saying 'sound card not detected' and in sound settings it had changed to dummy output.


So today I have done a full install from scratch again but still no sound and no sound card detected??



Any help would be great as I really don't want to go back to windows if I can help it.

Could you also keep any info I need as basic as possible so I can understand what I need to do.

Thankyou in advance!

---

### Post by grier-devon on 2014-04-09
Lets hope it is not hardware failure, do this and post output
```
[COLOR=#333333]cd ~/[/COLOR][COLOR=#333333]  
wget http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh -O alsa-info.sh && bash alsa-info.sh[/COLOR]
```
On a further note we are not mean here, feel free to ask question as doing things in a command line that you are unsure of what you are doing can have bad consequences.

---

### Post by spon78 on 2014-04-09
> **grier-devon said:**
> Lets hope it is not hardware failure, do this and post output
```
[COLOR=#333333]cd ~/[/COLOR][COLOR=#333333]  
wget http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh -O alsa-info.sh && bash alsa-info.sh[/COLOR]
```
On a further note we are not mean here, feel free to ask question as doing things in a command line that you are unsure of what you are doing can have bad consequences.

Hi, thanks for the reply. I have just run that and it gave me a link,
here
[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=b6e17ebad08f10c346f546dc47da054f4239bafc](http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=b6e17ebad08f10c346f546dc47da054f4239bafc)

thanks again.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2014-04-13
Odd - ubuntu doesnt detect any sound card

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-13
Hummmm, it's a laptop.  So tell us - is it possible the sound "card" is actually USB or perhaps a pcmcia card installed?

I realize these may sound like dumb question, but as Sandyd mention the report you posted does not show any detected sound cards on the PCI bus.

---

### Post by spon78 on 2014-04-15
Cheers.

I don't know what the sound card is (whatever the factory one is I suppose).

When the sound first stopped working i remember doing some soundcard check in terminal and it was showing up fine, but after messing put things into terminal that i didn't really understand then it disappeared.

I thought a fresh install would sort it but obviously not.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-18
You may want to install the alsa-mixer, then open it and check everything for mute/unmute, volume level, etc. - and if I remember correctly I believe you have to scroll the screen to the right to see everything.  If you have a HDMI output also, but are using analog output, be sure that under sound settings you have the output set to analog and not to HDMI.


Edit: changed misspelling "also" to "alsa"....

---

### Post by spon78 on 2014-04-22
Thanks, how do I install alsa mixer?

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-22
If you don't have Synaptic package manager installed, do the following in a terminal window:

sudo apt-get install synaptic <press enter>

After that:

Look in the menus (use the search) for synaptic package manager and click it to start.

When synaptic starts, type alsa in it's search box.  You should be able to find the alsa mixer in the results that show.  Right-click on it, click on mark for installation, then click on Apply.  When it has finished, you should be able to find alsa mixer in the menus.

---

### Post by spon78 on 2014-04-24
> **squakie said:**
> If you don't have Synaptic package manager installed, do the following in a terminal window:

sudo apt-get install synaptic <press enter>

After that:

Look in the menus (use the search) for synaptic package manager and click it to start.

When synaptic starts, type alsa in it's search box.  You should be able to find the alsa mixer in the results that show.  Right-click on it, click on mark for installation, then click on Apply.  When it has finished, you should be able to find alsa mixer in the menus.

Thanks, the only alsa mixer I could see on the list was 'alsamixergui' so I installed that, but when I open the alsa mixer there isn't much there??  full page is all grey, at the top it says 'Card: PulseAudio' and 'Chip: PulseAudio' with four bars in the top left corner, each with a speaker symbol above them and also a open padlock symbol underneath them which say master and capture....and that is it.

---

