---
title: "11.04 Update Manager gives &quot;Failed to download package files&quot;"
date: 2011-05-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by vincegata on 2011-05-31
Hi,

On 11.04 once I run Update Manager I get a dialog box:

> Failed to download package files. Check your Internet connection.

Then in the details there are four records, the first one is:

> Failed to fetch [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pam/libpam0g_1.1.2-2ubuntu8.2_amd64.deb](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pam/libpam0g_1.1.2-2ubuntu8.2_amd64.deb) 404  Not Found [IP: 91.189.92.167 80]

I checked my Internet is fine. I am running Gnome, not Unity.

Could you help me with this.
Thank you!

---

### Post by wojox on 2011-05-31
The package isn't in there. It goes as high as 8.1

[http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pam/](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pam/)

---

### Post by vincegata on 2011-05-31
I changed the server in Software Sources that fixed the error.

---

### Post by a.ross on 2011-05-31
I had the same problem, using the Netherlands' mirror. I can confirm that changing the server worked.
However, since it's a server issue (which will most likely be resolved in the near future) it might be better to remain patient, because updating your system could take slightly longer.

---

### Post by StarLab on 2011-06-01
I have 3 machines running 11.04 and two of them update fine. The third, however, gives the error described above. 

Since there's nothing in the updates that's going to affect my world, I'll play the patience game and see if works itself out. 

I may be back... :)

---

### Post by StarLab on 2011-06-02
Stumbled across a solution which was quite simple...

In Update Manager, hit "Check" before hitting the "Install Updates" button. Seem to have fixed the problem for me.

---

### Post by raj3003 on 2011-11-04
I did press Check option in Update Manager and it works... Thanks....

---

