---
title: "xterminal and coolbits"
date: 2015-12-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bob163 on 2015-12-23
Hello: I am a new Linux user and don’t know about x terminal or changing settings.Totally green.
At the moment I would like to enable/use coolbits to over-clock my graphics card and not screw up my system.
Can someone tell me where to find the information I need to understand x terminal enough to follow the instructions
on enabling coolbits?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-12-23
If you really do not want to screw up your system, then I suggest that you experiment on a second installation of Linux/Ubuntu so that when it breaks you can simply re-install and carry on experimenting.

If we break the only install of Linux that we have on the machine, then we might have to re-install as the easy option for fixing things. And unless we have already taken precautions we risk loosing data with a re-install.

Activating Coolbit on Linux is simply a matter of editing the /etc/X11/xorg.conf. What complicates matters is the fact that the latest versions of Ubuntu do not use the xorg.conf file. As Linux loads it reads the Extended Display Identification Data (EDID) chip in the monitor and uses that information to set the optimum resolution.

If you have installed a proprietary video driver there will also be a driver settings utility installed as well. That may offer some limited options for changing the default configuration of the video driver.

On my system the Nvidia XServer Settings manager under PowerMizer gives an option to adjust the preferred mode. The options are Auto; Adaptive; Prefer Maximum Performance. But if you really want to get your hands dirty, then this might help

[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?px=MTY1OTM&page=news_item](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?px=MTY1OTM&page=news_item)

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coolbits](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coolbits)

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xorg.conf](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xorg.conf)

Regards

---

### Post by bob163 on 2015-12-31
Hello and Ty for your response
I am working with a 32 bit version of Ubuntu 14.04 and also run a 64 bit version of  15.
This is what I am seeing when I "sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf"
 
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 331.20  (buildd@komainu)  Mon Feb  3 15:11:14 UTC 2014


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8500 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "Stereo" "0"
    Option         "nvidiaXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Option         "SLI" "Off"
    Option         "MultiGPU" "Off"
    Option         "BaseMosaic" "off"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


I&#8217;m not seeing coolbits not sure what changes to make

---

