---
title: ".mozilla-thunderbird won't delete from the trash"
date: 2009-01-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jack Shankle on 2009-01-17
In my attempt at getting Thunderbird to work on Ubuntu I am getting
about a dozen large items in the trash that won't delete. Yes I can delete other items but not the ones mentioned. I'm wondering if this could be the cause why I can't get TB mail to work on Ubuntu?
Specifically ".mozilla-thunderbird" and "profiles.ini".
If I can't get TB email on Ubuntu and Evolution won't accept the email etc.
from Vista, then I'll have no choice but to abandon Ubuntu. I've been days
at a task that should take no more than 1 hour. Very discouraging.

0% Ubuntu working on 1% Ununtu

---

### Post by cwsnyder on 2009-01-17
.mozilla-thunderbird should be the folder which Thunderbird is attempting to store its configuration and mail files in, while profiles.ini is one of the configuration files for Thunderbird.

I would try removing T-bird, then try deleting those files.  If you are successful, try re-installing T-bird again.

---

### Post by Jack Shankle on 2009-01-17
I would be willing to try uninstalling TB, if I knew how.
I doubt that will clean up the trash file though.

---

### Post by Jack Shankle on 2009-01-18
I have done what I think is a delete of Thunderbird.
Items still won't delete separately or in mass.

---

### Post by Patricrawley on 2009-01-18
sudo apt-get remove thunderbird --purge

---

### Post by Jack Shankle on 2009-01-18
Thank you for replying.
I keyed in the instruction and then it asked me for a password.
When I tried to key that in nothing appeared on the screen after the blinking black rectangle..........

---

### Post by chriscross93 on 2009-01-18
> **Jack Shankle said:**
> Thank you for replying.
I keyed in the instruction and then it asked me for a password.
When I tried to key that in nothing appeared on the screen after the blinking black rectangle..........

Nothing will show.  You need to type in your password.  It is just like showing a password in stars, but instead of stars nothing at all.  So just type your password, you wont be able to see it.  When you've finished typing it in, press enter.  That will totally remove thunderbird, to re-install copy and paste this into the terminal.
```
sudo apt-get install thunderbird
```

---

### Post by chriscross93 on 2009-01-18
I suspect however that removing thunderbird will not fix your trash problem (although it might).  They won't delete because you need root privlages to delete them.  the prefix "sudo" runs commands as root - so be careful with it.  Sudo is also why it asked for your password, for security.  That said, here is how to empty your trash can as root (copy/paste into terminal)
```
sudo rm -rf ~/.Trash/*
```

---

### Post by Jack Shankle on 2009-01-18
Thanks for replying.
It didn't work.

1% Ubuntu working on 2% Ubuntu

---

