---
title: "10.04 freezing on resizing partition"
date: 2010-05-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by spankermonkey on 2010-05-21
Hello, I already posted this, but I was afraid I posted it in the wrong section which is why I am posting it here, if it was in the right section I apologize. Anyways I am not new to Linux I have used many various distros but have  not tried the recenter Ubuntu distros. So I decided that I would try out  "Lucid Lynx", but I am having issues to install it. When I get the the  partitioning part I want to install it side by side with Windows Vista,  but it just hangs at "Resizing Partition 0%..." I've let it go for about  an hour now and it's still at 0. All my system specs meet the  requirments for ubuntu, so I am at a loss to see why this is happening,  can someone please enlighten me and give me a solution?

---

### Post by Chesamo on 2010-05-21
Is there enough free space on the Vista partition to do the resize properly? If there's data on the partition you can't resize smaller than that.

ED: I mean you *can*, but you shouldn't.

---

### Post by ravensqu on 2010-08-05
I am running into the same problem.

I have also used many different distros of Ubuntu on my laptop. Now I am deciding to install it on my desktop and decide to go for the newest version (10.04) but it is freezing at "Please Wait... 0% Resizing Partition..."

I just reinstalled windows 7 and thus have almost no data taking up space.

---

### Post by Miljet on 2010-08-05
Use the disk utilities in Windows to shrink the Windows partition before you try to install. Then you can have Ubuntu install to the "largest free space".

---

### Post by jtarin on 2010-08-05
I use [this]("http://www.paragon-software.com/home/pm-express/") to do all of my partition and recovery work.....it has never failed. I keep it on a USB stick so its portable. BTW...it's Linux.

---

### Post by Shanrunt on 2010-08-05
I dual-booted Ubuntu 10.04 on a machine that already had an earlier version of linux. When it came to resizing partitions, it was stuck on 0% for about 15 minutes, then jumped to 50% and stayed there for another 15 minutes. So it did appear frozen, but in reality, it was not. I suggest attempting it again and leaving the computer be for a half hour and let it do its resizing.

---

