---
title: "10.10 on old pc - use a thumb drive instead of cd burner. (no multiple sessions work)"
date: 2012-01-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by davidinky on 2012-01-08
I am running 10.10 on an older gateway pc and it works ok for me.  One problem that I have had to work around is on my hardware I cannot use any newer version of ubuntu and have everything work so I stay with 10.10.   What I cannot get to work is multiple session on a cd-r on my NEC NR-7700A burner with any of the available burner aps (Brasero, GnomeBaker, K3b) - they all simply close out the cd-r so I get to use the disk one time.

What I have learned because of this is to use a thumb drive instead of cd-r's - on my old system the usb ports are original usb (read not usb2) but the thumb drive does not care about that - it simply works.  Also I can use my floppy drive which also works if I mount it thru the terminal.

Just thought I would pass it along that you may be able to use a thumb drive also instead of your cd burner when you want to frequently file away a copy of something on something besides your hard drive.

---

### Post by bluexrider on 2012-01-08
as most of us do any more. then you can take the files with you to share. thanks for your insight

---

### Post by Double.J on 2012-01-08
> **davidinky said:**
> I am running 10.10 on an older gateway pc and it works ok for me.  One problem that I have had to work around is on my hardware I cannot use any newer version of ubuntu and have everything work so I stay with 10.10.   What I cannot get to work is multiple session on a cd-r on my NEC NR-7700A burner with any of the available burner aps (Brasero, GnomeBaker, K3b) - they all simply close out the cd-r so I get to use the disk one time.

What I have learned because of this is to use a thumb drive instead of cd-r's - on my old system the usb ports are original usb (read not usb2) but the thumb drive does not care about that - it simply works.  Also I can use my floppy drive which also works if I mount it thru the terminal.

Just thought I would pass it along that you may be able to use a thumb drive also instead of your cd burner when you want to frequently file away a copy of something on something besides your hard drive.

Have you looked into lubuntu towards staying up to date and getting the most out of the hardware? it's nice recent unbuntu underneath with a lightweight LXDE desktop on top instead of the more "flamboyant" gnome 3? You can try it out on your hard ware by making another usb or you can install it along side with the command
```

sudo apt-get install lubuntu-desktop

```

then you sign out and back in selecting lubuntu from the desktops options down the bottom.

all the best :)

---

### Post by davidinky on 2012-01-09
downloaded lubuntu-11.10-desktop-i386 and burned a cd using imgburn on my other windows pc.  when i tried to boot on my older pc that i have ubuntu 10.10 on i got a screen that was a terminal - guess i did something wrong.

---

### Post by davidinky on 2012-01-09
i did as you suggested and put a line in terminal sudo apt-get install lubuntu-desktop.  lbuntu has now taken over the pc and i really prefer my older 10.10 setup.  how do i go back?

---

### Post by Double.J on 2012-01-09
Hi there, should just be a case of sign out, and log back into gnome (may be called ubuntu) in the desktop list (probably on the bottom panel now)

To remove all that lubuntu installed have a look [here]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/puregnomemaverick")

---

### Post by davidinky on 2012-01-09
> **gnu/mirow said:**
> Hi there, should just be a case of sign out, and log back into gnome (may be called ubuntu) in the desktop list (probably on the bottom panel now)

To remove all that lubuntu installed have a look [here]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/puregnomemaverick")
did not expect you to answer so quickly - so am already in process of a fresh install of ubuntu 10.04 and will have to reload all my stuff.  guess that validates that i am a real beginner and messed up as i really liked my 10.10 setup that i had.  thanks for trying to help.

---

