---
title: "Access to NTFS drive"
date: 2008-06-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by MadsRH on 2008-06-19
Hi
I've add'ed some short cuts in Nautilus to my Photos, Videos, Documents on my NFTS drive.  
When I want to access the NTFS drive, I have to go to the Places menu and select the harddrive. Now the short cuts get "mounted" in Nautilus (before that it was just the usual home folder short cuts that was visible).

Can anyone help?

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-06-19
install the ntfs-3g config tool and then you can auto-mount at boot the ntfs-drive as read/write

---

### Post by Dedoimedo on 2008-06-19
Hello,
Could you please specify a little more in detail what kind of help you need exactly?
Dedoimedo

---

### Post by muteXe on 2008-06-19
> **hyper_ch said:**
> install the ntfs-3g config tool and then you can auto-mount at boot the ntfs-drive as read/write

 +1 to Mr Hyper.  I had this problem, and this solution worked for me.

---

### Post by MadsRH on 2008-06-19
> **Dedoimedo said:**
> Hello,
Could you please specify a little more in detail what kind of help you need exactly?
Dedoimedo

Sorry, of course. I need to be able to see my NTFS short cuts without clicking the harddrive from the places menu first.

---

### Post by Dedoimedo on 2008-06-19
Hi,

If I understand you correctly, then:

Solution 1 (workaround): You can create shotcuts on the desktop or one of the panels, linking to the particular directories.

Solution 2: Go to System > Preferences > Main menu, try to edit the way things are shown in the menus, you can even create your own custom one.

Solution 3: Open your home directory, browse to sub-directories you want, the ones you want shortcut. Then for each one, select Bookmarks > Add bookmark. Every item will be separately added to Places.

Now, a side question: is this NTFS drive mounted all the time?

Cheers,
Dedoimedo

---

### Post by Victormd on 2008-06-19
Take a look at the link on my signature... There's a detailed How to for that.

---

### Post by signseeker on 2008-06-19
If it's just another partition/drive it should be automagically mounted under /windows or /dos.

good luck

---

### Post by MadsRH on 2008-06-20
So I tried to install the ntfs-3g config tool and now can't access the NTFS drives _at all_!!! :confused:

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-06-20
Install the ntfsconfig tool as well > sudo apt-get install ntfsconfig Then under Applications --> System Tools --> ntfs configuration tool, you will be able to name and mount your ntfs drive/partition and it will automatically be added to /etc/fstab and be automounted at boot.

---

### Post by MadsRH on 2008-06-20
> **bumanie said:**
> Install the ntfsconfig tool as well  Then under Applications --> System Tools --> ntfs configuration tool, you will be able to name and mount your ntfs drive/partition and it will automatically be added to /etc/fstab and be automounted at boot.

That's the one I've installed!!!

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-06-20
Post the output of > cat /etc/fstab and > sudo fdisk -l (that's a lower case L)

---

### Post by Dedoimedo on 2008-06-20
Hi,
Why didn't you try the simple things I've suggested? Without editing the fstab or installing utilities - just try the simple menu configurations?
Dedoimedo

---

### Post by MadsRH on 2008-06-21
Thanks bumanie. Here's the output:

cat /etc/fstab 
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=45b695eb-3fd2-442a-9cbe-ed9d24ae4340 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=4e4ba69a-8c37-42a4-b1be-bb2ef035b245 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/sda2 ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/sdb1 vfat rw,user,fmask=0111,dmask=0000 0 0
/dev/sdb2 /media/HD2 ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/HD1 ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0

```


sudo fdisk -l 
```
Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 Gb, 160041885696 byte
78 heads, 14 sectors/track, 286247 cylinders
Units = cylindre of 1092 * 512 = 559104 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xd7a0d7a0

    Enhed Opstart   Start         Slut     Blokke   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1      286246   156290309    7  HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/sdb: 250.0 Gb, 250059350016 byte
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylindre of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x000077fb

    Enhed Opstart   Start         Slut     Blokke   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1        1912    15358108+  83  Linux
/dev/sdb2   *        1913       29644   222757290    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sdb3           29645       30401     6080602+   5  Udvidet
/dev/sdb5           29645       30401     6080571   82  Linux swap / Solaris

```

---

### Post by pparks1 on 2008-06-21
> **bumanie said:**
> Install the ntfsconfig tool as well  Then under Applications --> System Tools --> ntfs configuration tool, you will be able to name and mount your ntfs drive/partition and it will automatically be added to /etc/fstab and be automounted at boot.

You have a typo in your command line; it should be
sudo apt-get install ntfs-config

---

### Post by MadsRH on 2008-06-22
Well, I've got the ntfs-config tool installed!

---

### Post by MadsRH on 2008-06-22
Can anyone help???

---

