---
title: "12.4 no boot,b43 driver"
date: 2012-06-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Hadaka on 2012-06-02
I am currently running ubuntu 11.10 with the b43-b44 broadcom drivers and all is
well. I downloaded 12.4 onto a 16gig usb stick and attempted to boot to it to
"Try without installing" well..first off..no boot..just goes to the splash screen,
shows the ubuntu logo with the 5 red/white blinking dots and hangs...forever.
so next i did the shift/f-6 routine and ticked nomodetest..and it trys to boot
but fails because no b43 drivers...ok..no problem, the error message on fail refers
a web site for adding the sudo apt-get b43..installer fwcutter. my question is. Where
and exactly where in the 12.4 file do i drop the b43 file syslinux?..boot? and do i name
the file with the name of the "failed file"...it errors out to saying..not found..when 12.4
halts,freezes and requires power down to regain control of my machine. I also get
this wireless boot attempt halt when i am hard wired. so this tells me the boot file
knows i have a broadcom card and need b43...why it doesnt just do a simple case
statement and load it is beyond me.

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-06-02
If you can handle to make a custom iso (eg: with isomaster program) i think you will be able to do your job. But i don't know further on how to. (just an idea)
This is not good for Ubuntu. I mean this stack - bug - i don't know what it its... but i know 2 other people  had the same problem as you.. with this b43 module.. IF i remember corectrly they were been able to install Ubuntu via Alternate CD. (check it out if you want)

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2012-06-02
I did also burn an iso cd at a seriously slow rate to avoid any data corruption
and it also fails to load for the exact same reason. I dont mind having a need
to install a wireless or printer or any other kind of driver to get  my machine
working with what could be any number of devices that i have chosen to link
up to my computer. But when loading an os with a wired connection, and wireless
turned off, the os load should not abort and freeze the machine to the point where
only a power crash will release it. When i loaded 11.10, it loaded, and of course my
wireless was useless without the b43 drivers,but it didnt prevent the os 11.10 from
loading. Im sure there is a logical reason 12.4 does this,...maybe it a test to see how
patient Ubuntu users are.

---

### Post by Curtis6767 on 2012-06-02
As NikTH suggested, you could try the alternate CD image.

Scroll down through the list at this site to find it: [http://releases.ubuntu.com/precise/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/precise/)


The alternate image uses a text-based installer. Not sure how this is going to solve this b43 problem, but it might be worth a try.

GL

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-06-03
Hi , 
also you can disable from bios the wireless card (if you have that option) 
or 
if you know how to add kernel parameters add this parameter  :** b43.blacklist=yes **and try to install.

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2012-06-03
I almost left Ubuntu I had such a terrible time trying to get around that problem. Finally I had to use another distro live CD then go to the correct file and edit the blacklist I forget the details and am traveling without that laptop, but someone here can fill you in.

---

### Post by tomcarter979 on 2012-06-03
Try another version, like Kubuntu, to see if it works.

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2012-06-03
after much frustration ...it boots. thanks to the simple suggestion from
NikTh..disable wireless in bios....duh, im feeling pretty stupid for not even
thinking of that,instead i was wacking away at the 12.4 files and going way
beyond what it should take to make it boot. For self punishment for my
moron moment, i will force myself to listen to barry manilow and use win95
for a week. Thanks Nik !!

---

