---
title: "[SOLVED] Low-Graphics Mode"
date: 2008-06-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Lowcountry on 2008-06-09
I just installed Hardy on my desktop.  When I run the Livecd, the graphics are perfect, but when I install, it puts me in low graphics mode.
I don't have ati or invidia, so I don't think its a restricted drivers issue.
Please help!

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-06-09
Could you please supply your computer specs?

---

### Post by Lowcountry on 2008-06-09
> **JoshuaRL said:**
> Could you please supply your computer specs?

Thanks, its a Everex gPC2

1.5GHz, VIA C7®-D Processor
512MB DDRII 533MHz, SDRAM
80GB Hard Disk Drive
DVD-ROM/CD-RW Optical Drive
VIA UniChrome Pro IGP Graphics
Realtek 6-Channel Audio

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-06-09
Hi. Sounds like a configuration issue; try comparing the Xorg.conf file when running the Live CD and your installed system:
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
You can then copy/paste the output of the file from the Live CD to a text file and mail it to yourself, then run your installed system, download the file, and compare that to the installed system's file for significant differences (please post the output of both files here).

---

### Post by Lowcountry on 2008-06-09
> **RomeReactor said:**
> Hi. Sounds like a configuration issue; try comparing the Xorg.conf file when running the Live CD and your installed system:
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
You can then copy/paste the output of the file from the Live CD to a text file and mail it to yourself, then run your installed system, download the file, and compare that to the installed system's file for significant differences (please post the output of both files here).

Thanks for the help.  Unfortunately both say the same thing, which isn't much:
[PHP]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option     &nb sp;  "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Ide ntifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
EndSection[/PHP]

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-06-09
Lowcountry, have you tried reconfiguring the display on your installed system? Press CTRL+ALT+F1, then run:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```
to stop the display; then
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```
just follow the instructions; you should go with the defaults unless you are certain one of them needs changing. after you finish reconfiguring, the display should start automatically and you should be back at your desktop. If not, run:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```
or reboot:
```
shutdown -r now
```

---

### Post by Lowcountry on 2008-06-10
> **RomeReactor said:**
> Lowcountry, have you tried reconfiguring the display on your installed system? Press CTRL+ALT+F1, then run:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```
to stop the display; then
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```
just follow the instructions; you should go with the defaults unless you are certain one of them needs changing. after you finish reconfiguring, the display should start automatically and you should be back at your desktop. If not, run:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```
or reboot:
```
shutdown -r now
```

Thanks for the help.  After reinstalling twice, the configuration worked as it should...Hopefully it will stay.  I'll hold on to your instructions, in case I have any future problems.

---

### Post by tyler.ness on 2008-06-16
I am having this exact same issue, however, re-installing twice won't solve it.

Does anyone have anymore information?  I've compared the xorg.conf files for the installed and live cd versions and they are the same.  The thing is, 6.06 ubuntu/kubuntu versions work just fine and I do have a printout of the xorg.conf file with that working version.  Would it be safe to copy over the xorg.conf from 6.06 to a new 8.04 install?  I am also running an Everex GPC2.

From another site, manually upgrading from 7.10 to 8.04 through the new also works just fine.

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-06-16
Which version are you on?  If Gutsy, then it should be okay to copy over the video card section of the xorg.conf.

If it's Hardy, it won't help.  You see, the brand new Xorg that's in Hardy pays little attention to the xorg.conf.  It's made to autodetect the videocard and monitor settings at startup.  But you can fix some things by going to Applications->Other->Screens and Graphics.  You should be able to try out and test the drivers for that video card.  I've heard the openchrome one could work.  Also, you could try the GTK port of displayconfig from KDE:
```

displayconfig-gtk

```

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by tyler.ness on 2008-06-16
It's from Kubuntu 6.06 - the xorg.conf is filled with data.  The xorg.conf from 8.04 is exactly like the one posted above (almost empty).

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-06-16
Yeah, that's the problem with Hardy's xorg.  It's empty because the new Xorg included with Hardy doesn't pay much attention to the xorg.conf for video card and monitor settings.

Try those two GUI ways to alter the Xorg settings and see if that helps.

---

