---
title: ".iso"
date: 2010-06-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by beelzebufo on 2010-06-24
I have an iso file that I would like to view, and I don't have any disks to burn as an image... how do I do that, I have iso master and furiu iso mount, but they just extract everything from the iso, I have noticed that ubuntu seems to like to just extract stuff without me seeing any way to actually execute anything lol so I am sure I am missing something

---

### Post by JamesParnell on 2010-06-24
I may be wrong, but:


Locate the .iso file, right click, click "open with archive mounter" (or something similar to that)


again, I may be wrong

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-06-24
7zip or mount it to a folder. I cannot recall the exactly mount command off the top of my head tho.

---

### Post by beelzebufo on 2010-06-24
it already extracted, but I don't see any way to actually use the program, it is rosetta stone btw

---

### Post by JamesParnell on 2010-06-24
Maybe you would need wine then..I dont know if they make a linux version

[Wine](http://www.google.co.uk/url?q=http://www.winehq.org/download&sa=X&ei=CfIjTJ_-JI-I0wS-pKTpBA&ved=0CB8QqwMoADAA&usg=AFQjCNEZ1MoknxBavBTxIWex3yhzGxfeLg)

---

### Post by xtremesupremacy3 on 2010-06-24
No no no...Wait, there is another solution that I use daily.

Firstly you need to create a directory to mount to in my case I use the standard /media/cdrom0.

Download GMount from the repositories, then start it up, select your ISO, and underneath type the path to this mount file.

Then hit mount, it asks for your password and it will appear mounted on the screen, make sure though that you minimize gmount, not close it, it makes it difficult to unmount again. When your done, bring gmount back up and hit unmount.

Arthur

---

### Post by beelzebufo on 2010-06-24
I can mount it, but then it just opens as a folder and there is no executable programs, rosetta stone isn't the only thing this has happened to me with, it just wants to show me whats there, but I see no executable programs, I did this with kubuntu too and when I burned it as an image, it ran at startup, is that just the way I have to do it? It seems like there should be a way to run an iso ext. without a disc

---

