---
title: "Mounting device for displaying photos"
date: 2008-12-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Adali on 2008-12-20
Hi I'm having trouble with a new usb device that displays my photos.I'm trying to add photos to this device but I'm unable to mount it but ubuntu detects it??? Also, It detects it as a cd-rom drive which to my knowledge it is not.I get the following error message when I click on the device name:
Unable to mount Audio Disc
Drive /dev/scd1 does not contain audio files

---

### Post by mapes12 on 2008-12-20
You need to mount it. For example to mount it in your filesystem create a directory called **USB** like this from Terminal ```
sudo mkdir /USB
```then mount it like this ```
sudo mount/dev/scd1 /USB
```You should then be able to go **Places>Computer>Filesystem>USB** to see the contents of your USB device.

---

### Post by BDNiner on 2008-12-20
I got a USB picture viewer/keychain also and it does the same thing. Ubuntu mounts it as a CD drive and it is supposed to automatically run some windows software when plugged in. I am guessing because there is an autorun file present on the drive. I installed Wine but wine will not run the software on the drive. 

When i double click on the drive it lets me view the contents but i don't get any error messages. Even when i try to run the program for loading photos on it using Wine. Nothing happens. I didn't have time to check my log files to see what made the software crash.

---

### Post by tomtom1982 on 2008-12-20
Please post the output of 

fdisk -l

and of the content of

/etc/fstab 

and

/etc/mstab

Your external drive should be sdb/sdc but not scd. It could be wrong in your fstab.

That´s mostly the result after installing via usb-stick instead of installing from cd, so ubuntu set the usb-drive as cdrom-drive.

---

### Post by Adali on 2008-12-20
Mapes12 I get the following output from the terminal 
mount: block device /dev/scd1 is write-protected, mounting read-only
when I used the sudo mount /dev/scd1 /USB command

---

### Post by Adali on 2008-12-20
heres the output for fdisk -l 
Cannot open /dev/sda
Cannot open /dev/sdb
my fstab reads:
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=c54238e0-ae1f-4960-b5ef-ae25ceeb58dc / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=b44876f7-6f6a-4cd4-bf57-e47d30e13b15 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
/dev/sda1 /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
/dev/sda2 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
/dev/sda2 /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1

  And my mtab reads:
/dev/sda5 / ext3 rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 0
tmpfs /lib/init/rw tmpfs rw,nosuid,mode=0755 0 0
/proc /proc proc rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
sysfs /sys sysfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
varrun /var/run tmpfs rw,nosuid,mode=0755 0 0
varlock /var/lock tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777 0 0
udev /dev tmpfs rw,mode=0755 0 0
tmpfs /dev/shm tmpfs rw,nosuid,nodev 0 0
devpts /dev/pts devpts rw,noexec,nosuid,gid=5,mode=620 0 0
fusectl /sys/fs/fuse/connections fusectl rw 0 0
lrm /lib/modules/2.6.27-9-generic/volatile tmpfs rw,mode=755 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/windows fuseblk rw,nosuid,nodev,allow_other,default_permissions,blksize=4096 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/windows fuseblk rw,nosuid,nodev,allow_other,default_permissions,blksize=4096 0 0
securityfs /sys/kernel/security securityfs rw 0 0
binfmt_misc /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc binfmt_misc rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
gvfs-fuse-daemon /home/adali/.gvfs fuse.gvfs-fuse-daemon rw,nosuid,nodev,user=adali 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/SD\040CARD vfat rw,nosuid,nodev,uhelper=hal,shortname=mixed,uid=1000,utf8,umask=077,flush 0 0
/dev/scd1 /USB iso9660 ro 0 0

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2008-12-20
Looks to me as if it is mounted at /media/SD\ CARD

You need to edit fstab and change

uid=1000 (assuming you are the first user), then unmount and re mount.

---

### Post by lswb on 2008-12-20
It is possible that this is one of the newer usb devices that has 2 or more "personalities" for want of a better term. These devices when first plugged in identify themselves as a cd drive. The contents of this drive are the MS windows drivers for the device. On a windows system, the drivers will be auto-installed the first time it is plugged in, and from then on it will be recognized for its intended purpose. This allows the device to work with any windows system, as it carries its drivers with it, and the vendor does not need to include a windows install CD either.

From what I have read, with some of these devices connected to a linux system, you can right-click on the cd-drive icon, select unmount or eject, and then the device will be recognized for its primary purpose. With others it is unfortunately not so simple. See [http://www.draisberghof.de/usb_modeswitch/](http://www.draisberghof.de/usb_modeswitch/) for more info.

---

### Post by tomtom1982 on 2008-12-20
> **Adali said:**
> heres the output for fdisk -l 
Cannot open /dev/sda
Cannot open /dev/sdb...

...
/dev/scd1 /USB iso9660 ro 0 0

Sorry, my fault. The right command is sudo fdisk -l.

Please change your mstab entry. "iso9660 ro 0 0" means CD-ROM, read only, It has to be 

```
vfat rw,nosuid,nodev,uhelper=hal,shortname=mixed,uid=10 00,utf8,umask=077,flush 0 0
```

---

### Post by Adali on 2008-12-20
.

---

