---
title: "graphics Driver problem."
date: 2010-10-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Scorcher21 on 2010-10-20
Ok heres my problem in a nutshell. Finally got 10.04 up and running but was never able to get desktop effects to run but wasn't really worried about it. Figured it had something to do with my NVIDIA driver, but was able to watch a few videos on HULU that I wanted to and everything was, is, OK. However, when I reboot I get Several (EE) errors  (unfortunately never wrote them down) was smithing couldn't find Driver, couldn't load kernel and a couple others. Under Hardware devices it showed Nvidia current as being active. I've tried nvidia-xconfig, dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg (which BTW doesn't seem to do anything... do I need to be in root through recovery console?), and tried Xorg -configure. Tried a few other things as well including trying to install the drive by downloading the most current one from nvidia and running it through root. Somewhere along the line the (EE)'s went away and now it just pops up couldn't properly detect screen, monitor and devices or something close to that. But If I just hit restart X I log in just fine. But I think Ive gone and pretty much fouled things up pretty well so I want to know exactly how i should go about properly installing My NVIDIA 7300GT from the get go. Ive seen somewhere that all updates should be applied first and Linux and Linux-source should be done through the synaptic manager. also getting headers and and a few other things. What I'm looking for is step by step destructions so I can set it and forget it. Damn that was a big nut.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-10-20
Could you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by Scorcher21 on 2010-10-20
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by Scorcher21 on 2010-10-20
Okay thats odd... used to have the driver section with Device0 and driver 'nvidia' in there. as I said I foulded something up was gonna go with a fresh boot

_**EDIT:**_ Okay if I do sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf  my config file looks like Im used to... with thre nvidia driver listed as simply nvidia... I exit out start x  just to be sure and check my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file under places and it shows what I pasted above .... but if I do the nano bit again shows what im used to... im confused

---

