---
title: "10.04 Panasonic Laptop Shutdown/Restart/Power Problem"
date: 2010-05-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by akashiba on 2010-05-27
Complete noob making a first post here.

I've just installed Ubuntu 10.04 on an old Panasonic CF-T2 laptop and I'm really enjoying it so far.

It's close to working perfectly but I have a weird problem - 

Whenever I try to shutdown or restart, Ubuntu goes through the shutdown sequence and then the screen turns black and the power light goes off.
After that the computer's power switch does nothing.

The only way to get it to turn on is to remove the battery and ac adapter, wait for a few minutes and plug them back in. Then the power switch works.

Both shutdown and restart work fine in Windows XP on this machine.

Any ideas? Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by laidback on 2010-05-27
I experienced a problem with shutdown not working at all, the answer was to remove OOo's Quickstarter. If you haven't initiated this or don't know what Quickstarter is then this won't be the answer.

---

### Post by akashiba on 2010-05-29
Quick update - same thing also happens with suspend and hibernate.
Laptop will not wake up, power switch has no effect.
Removing all power for a few minutes is all I can do.

---

### Post by akashiba on 2010-05-29
> **laidback said:**
> I experienced a problem with shutdown not working at all, the answer was to remove OOo's Quickstarter. If you haven't initiated this or don't know what Quickstarter is then this won't be the answer.

Thanks for the pointer, but I couldn't find anything related to OOo's Quickstarter on the computer.

---

### Post by akashiba on 2010-05-29
After some trial and error messing around yesterday, I found that the cause of the problem was my Buffalo PCMCIA wireless card.

If I remove the card, shutdown, restart, suspend and hibernate all work faultlessy. 

Sooo the new problem is I can no longer use WiFi and have the computer shutdown properly - it's one or the other. :(

Anybody out there know how to solve this??

---

### Post by laidback on 2010-05-30
If the wireless card works under normal circumstances I'd be tempted to try shutting down the internet just before you want to power down, remove the card and then power down. Not perfect but it could be a temporary solution.

---

### Post by ebrjvd on 2010-06-14
> **akashiba said:**
> Quick update - same thing also happens with suspend and hibernate.
Laptop will not wake up, power switch has no effect.
Removing all power for a few minutes is all I can do.

Same problem exists with other laptop makes.
I.m.o. Ubuntu cuts down power too quick, before the Linux shutdown is completed.

---

### Post by panMannelig on 2011-01-12
Something like that is on my cf-t2 under XP prof: system shutdown (to black screen) very fast and sometimes later, when I open my laptop, the ending blue screen comeback to shutdown once more...

   The worst problem is with turn to standby by computer himself. Then I must have fun with battery...:-|

I remove the OOo QL a few minuets ago, lets  see if it can help me.

---

