---
title: "4od"
date: 2014-09-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by peter-ward497 on 2014-09-19
I am new to Ubuntu having downloaded it to replace Windows XP. I cannot get Channel 4's catchup service to work - I just get the spinning white arrow. BBC Iplayer works ok as does the Swedish equivalent at svt.se.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-09-19
Are you in the UK? I assume you are as you can get BBC programmes.

Do you have flash installed?  Again I presume you do as BBC-iPlayer works.

4oD works here for me but it does take a long time before the video actually  starts playing for some reason; cache being filled maybe?

---

### Post by Rob Sayer on 2014-09-20
You might try another browser.  Google Chrome (not Chromium) has the best Flash linux support.

---

### Post by claracc on 2014-09-21
I have the same problem with channel for tv viewing on line, I am in Spain( 12.04 ubuntu, fully updated, firefox 32.0). Please see attached image number 1

I think the problem is related to BBC iplayer tv programmes are only available to play from UK, although they don't say explicitly, as in the case you try to see an iplayer programme, see image number 2.

---

### Post by zapple2 on 2014-09-28
It sounds like you have flash installed, but no hand shake.

Hal needs to be installed.

The only place I can find it is here. Thanks go out to this great guy....
[http://alexsantidote.com/866/how-to-watch-amazon-prime-videos-in-ubuntu-14-04/](http://alexsantidote.com/866/how-to-watch-amazon-prime-videos-in-ubuntu-14-04/)
Buy him a coffee!

    Add the repository so you can install hal… run this command:
    ```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:mjblenner/ppa-hal
```
    
    Update and install with this command:
    ```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install hal libhal1
```

Thos worked for me, but with slow computer and mobile conection, I need to record..

---

