---
title: "12.04"
date: 2012-04-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ub9876 on 2012-04-27
just loaded 12.04  got rid of 10.10
Its terribly slow
my mobile broadband signal SUCKS
 did I do something wrong???
DONT like the layout     sucks

---

### Post by uRock on 2012-04-27
Are you asking for help or venting? If yes, then what do you need help with?

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2012-04-27
Make an ugly woman your wife you will be happy the rest of your life!

I do not know about the broad band but as far as lay out give your self the gift of

time and you will grow to like it. I know my initial take was like yours, but now

I like it. There are many tweaks you can do to set it to your liking, including gnome.

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-04-27
And please:  One issue at a time and please give everyone as much detail as you can (you may not know what to give, so we'll ask)

You can change the DE, so don't get wrapped around the axle about it just now.  Put it on the back burner.

---

### Post by ub9876 on 2012-04-27
anyone notice their 3G Verizon signal is reduced????
I was given 4 selections during setup ...three of them were for 4G
and the other just said` Verizon    
I selected Verizon
The general overall slowness is another matter... if it bugs me
I will go back to 11

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-04-28
The general overall slowness could be due to the graphics demand of the new Unity desktop -- which is also the look you don't like.

Changing to Unity 2D or Ubuntu Classic should lessen the graphics load and speed up your PC.

---

### Post by tmaranets on 2012-04-28
Have you tried to connection to an ethernet cable? Your problem is weird.

---

