---
title: "kernal panic-not synching vfs unable to mount fs on unknown block"
date: 2008-09-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Chelives1928 on 2008-09-20
Haven't gotten a reply yet and the forum search hasn't come up with anything so here is a little more info and this hang up happened after upgrading from hardy



```
- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb3 :
UUID=ab5324ee-ba76-46d3-a7ab-db42886bdd50 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb2 :
UUID=cd5fef72-60f5-47e5-9d2d-7e1d39512160 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/Big\040One ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/other ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
```

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-09-20
Kernel panic is often caused by memory leakage from ram - do a memtest86+ and see if it shows ram errors.

---

### Post by bobnutfield on 2008-09-20
This can occur for a number of reasons.  Since this was an upgrade to Hardy (which installed new kernels with different configs), it is possible that the correct drivers for your hard drive are not being loaded in the initramfs at boot, the root device is incorrect in your Grub file, or the BIOS config for your drive is wrong.  I mention the latter because a number of people who have had this issue have gone into the BIOS and changed the SATA config from "IDE" to "RAID" (even if you do not use a RAID system) and it solved their problem.  The first thing I would check is the root device in your /etc/boot/grub/menu.lst and make sure it is correct.

Second, a solution I have seen on another forum suggests that you use the live CD, mount your Ubuntu paritition (which appears to be /dev/sdb3), and run the following command:

> sudo update-initramfs -k all -u -b /mnt/sdb3/boot

This is to attempt to get the correct drivers in the kernel to load.

I have had this issue a number of years ago, and in my case it was a bad root= entry in Grub after an update.  I don't know if any of this will work for you, but it has for others.

---

### Post by Chelives1928 on 2008-09-20
it says that i cannot update initramfs because I'm using a live cd.

---

### Post by Chelives1928 on 2008-09-21
still stuck on this issue.  Any other ideas?

---

