---
title: "Server Network Config?"
date: 2012-07-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cellorules on 2012-07-17
So I've gone through the manual, the guide, the whatever; however, I still can't manage to configure my poor server to connect to the internet. It never has and I'm afraid that without any help it never will.

So this is what happens.

I attempt to download a package; say, sudo apt-get install ethtool. It builds the dependency tree, tells me what it will be doing, however, errors start appearing all down the page saying that the package URLs are unavailable.

so I run this command

ifconfig

All it comes up with is the loopback and "virbr0" (I've never seen this on any of the guides)

So now I type in ifconfig -a and finally it brings up at the top: eth4.

Well, there is an adapter, right? Yes, I know there is an adapter. I've replaced the adapter with 4 different ethernet adapters for my computer.

so now i type: sudo lshw -class network and this is what it brings up:

*-network DISABLED
 description: Ethernet interface
product blah blah blah Ethernet controller
vendor Intel corporation
physical id 8
bus info: blah blah
logical name eth4
version 03
serial blah blah
size 100Mbit/s
capacity 100Mbit/s
width 32 bits
clock: 33MHz
capabilities pm bus)master cap)list ehternet physical tp mii 10 . . . .
resource . . .

I'm really confused :\

In addition, I originally installed the OS on a HDD on one computer, moved it to another for use, and am now using it in another computer for troubleshooting - all of the above have demonstrated network capabilities on other OS's.

oh yeah, I still can't shut down the server. . .

"sudo shutdown now" won't work. . . it fails at ending the remaining processes and then puts me into root and then it won't do anything. . .

---

### Post by The Linuxist on 2012-07-17
Can you do a:

```
cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
```

and post the result please?

---

### Post by cellorules on 2012-07-17
cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules

# this file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules 
# program, run by the persistent_net)generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and change only the value of the NAME=key.

# PCI device 0x1106:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:12.0 (via-rhine)
# SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION--"add", DRIVERS--"?*", ATTR{address}==". . ." , ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0, ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL --"eth*", NAME="eth0"

And it does the same thing again until NAME="eth4" only the ATTR{address} changes.

By the way. . . could you explain this stuff? hahaha!

---

### Post by Cheesehead on 2012-07-17
> **cellorules said:**
> 
# PCI device 0x1106:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:12.0 (via-rhine)
# SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION--"add", DRIVERS--"?*", ATTR{address}==". . ." , ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0, ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL --"eth*", NAME="eth0"

And it does the same thing again until NAME="eth4" only the ATTR{address} changes.

By the way. . . could you explain this stuff? hahaha!

It simply maps $ATTR{address} to $NAME{interface} consistently. Without a map, the kernel will assign eth0 to the first port it finds...which means it could be different each time.

Question: Is this server installed within a VM? virbr0 is normally the connection between a VM and it's host machine.

Next, please paste here the complete [FONT="Courier New"]ifconfig -a[/FONT], your [FONT="Courier New"]/etc/network/interfaces[/FONT], and [FONT="Courier New"]route[/FONT].

---

### Post by cellorules on 2012-07-17
No, the server isn't installed within a VM, and never has come in contact with one.

ifconfig -a

eth4    Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00: . . .
            BROADCAST MULTICAST MTU:1500 Metric:1
            RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
            TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
            collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
            RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

lo         Link encap:Local Loopback
            inet addr:127.0.0.1 Mask:255.0.0.0
            inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
            UP LOOPBACK RUNNING MTU:16436 Metric:1
            RX packets:64 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
            TX packets:64 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
            collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
            RX bytes:4176 (4.1 KB)  TX bytes: 4176 (4.1 KB)

virbr0 Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr "e2. . ."
            inet addr;192.168.122.1 Bcast:192.168.122.255 Mask:255.255.255.0
            UP BROADCAST MULTICAST MTU:1500 Metric:1
            RX Packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
            collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
            RX bytes:0 (0.0 B) TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

route
Kernel IP routing table
Destination        Gateway       Genmask            Flags Metric Ref   Use Iface
192.168.122.0  *                    255.255.255.0  U        0          0          0  virbr0


I just realized, when I was doing the server install, I installed the software needed for a virtual machine on the server as well as Samba from the original install disk. Could this be causing the problem?

---

### Post by Cheesehead on 2012-07-18
> **cellorules said:**
> I just realized, when I was doing the server install, I installed the software needed for a virtual machine on the server as well as Samba from the original install disk. Could this be causing the problem?

Let's not jump to conclusions just yet. Yes, virbr0 was probably installed with virtualization software. Yes, virbr0 clearly has an IP address (but zero traffic). But that doesn't mean anything is wrong with virbr0, nor that it's related to the problem of eth4's inability to connect.

Let's do a little more digging first.

Please paste your /etc/network/interfaces file, plus the result of the command [FONT="Courier New"]dmesg | grep eth[/FONT]

---

### Post by cellorules on 2012-07-18
$ less /etc/network/interfaces

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth4
iface eth4 inet dhcp

$dmesg | grep eth
[ . . . ] e100 0000:02:08.0: eth0: addr . . . irq 20, MAC addr . . .
[ . . . ] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth0: link is not ready
[ . . . ] udevd[327]: renamed network interface th0 to eth4
[ . . . ] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth4: link is not ready
[ . . . ] e100 0000:02:08.0: eth4: NIC Link becomes ready
[ . . . ] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_CHANGE): eth4: link becomes ready
[ . . . ] eth4: no IPv6 routers present

So the dmesg command shows logs? And it appears that the eth4 link was working at one time?

---

### Post by cellorules on 2012-07-18
So. . . it just started working without explanation haha But I really want to figure out why it wasn't working in the first place :\ And now we come to my second question: I can't turn off my server using civil methods hahaha This was mentioned in an earlier post of mine.

---

### Post by cellorules on 2012-07-19
And. . . it stopped working again.

---

### Post by Cheesehead on 2012-07-19
This makes perhaps a bit more sense now...

> **cellorules said:**
> ```
$ less /etc/network/interfaces

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth4
iface eth4 inet dhcp

```
That looks good.


> **cellorules said:**
> ```

[ . . . ] udevd[327]: renamed network interface th0 to eth4
[ . . . ] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_CHANGE): eth4: link becomes ready

```
The first line is udev mapping the ethernet port to eth4, probably to match the interfaces file.

The second line is eth4 coming up.

In this example, eth4 should have been usable.

Can you show us the complete /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules ?

Er, do you have Network Manager or Wicd or another clever net assistant installed?

---

### Post by cellorules on 2012-07-24
The only network manager-like program I have installed is ethtools, and I don't really know how to use it yet :\

cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules

#This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
#program, run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
#You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
#line, and change only the value of the NAME-key.

#PCI Device 0x1106:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:12.0 (via-rhine)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION--"add", DRIVERS=="?*" ATTR{address}=="00: . . . " ATTR{dev_id}--"0x0" ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL--"eth#", NAME="eth0"

#PCI Device 0x10ec:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1e.0 (8139too)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION--"add", DRIVERS=="?*" ATTR{address}=="00: . . . " ATTR{dev_id}--"0x0" ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL--"eth#", NAME="eth1"

#PCI Device 0x10ec:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:02:0a.0 (ne2k-pci)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION--"add", DRIVERS=="?*" ATTR{address}=="00: . . . " ATTR{dev_id}--"0x0" ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL--"eth#", NAME="eth2"

#PCI Device 0x1317:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:02:08.0 (tulip)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION--"add", DRIVERS=="?*" ATTR{address}=="00: . . . " ATTR{dev_id}--"0x0" ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL--"eth#", NAME="eth3"

#PCI Device 0x8086:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:02:08:0 (e100)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION--"add", DRIVERS=="?*" ATTR{address}=="00: . . . " ATTR{dev_id}--"0x0" ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL--"eth#", NAME="eth4"

Internet is still down :confused: I'm thinking of doing a reinstall on it and skip installing the virtual machine software until after I get the internet working on it, but in order to do that i have to put the hard disk into another tower that has enough memory to do the install correctly.

Anyway, I'm going to be gone until this Saturday, so if I don't answer for a while, that is why.

---

