---
title: "10.04.2 Repeats the system shut-down problem as for 8.04"
date: 2011-04-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-04-15
Hi folks.

Having ventured into 10.04.2 which has given me several problems not the least of which is that it refuses to shut-down the computer completely when asked to do it. All appears to go except the muddy splodge on the screen. Sadly the only way out is to press the power on button of the laptop which is generally thought to be undesirable.This occurred  with 8.04 (with a pre 2000 BIOS which is still in use) and was cured by editing /boot/grub/menu.lst additional options by adding acpi=force to it (see post of July 31st 2008 on the subject). I have tried this but the menu.lst does not look anything like the old one. Now I am aware that I should be on Grub2 now and suspect that there will be another workaround to achieve what I want. Any clues out there? 

???

---

### Post by dnairb on 2011-04-15
In terminal:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```

This will open a file in which there are various user-configurable settings.

Line 9 (IIRC):

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
```

change to what you require, for example in your case:

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi=force"
```

Save the file, then in terminal update grub:

```
sudo update-grub
```

then reboot

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-04-20
Hi! dnairb,

That all looked familiar apart from the location of the files. Tried the cure but it did not work. Revisited, checked that the amended line was listed and it was. As a check I uncommented the line to add a beep at grub loading, this does work so I guess that there must be another hitch in the system.

A possible clue could be an associated problem that I have in logging-in at start-up.I am trying to run 10.04 loaded from a Live CD install which correctly goes to the log-in page with a correct log-in name, I add the password and log-in. There is a suitable amount of disk activity but the log-in page reappears. It never lets me in after subsequent tries. The only way I can get the OS to function properly (complete with my log-in name and password) is to use the FailSafe Gnome option at the bottom of the page which seems to leapfrog over whatever holds the system in a loop under a normal log-in. I have read that FailSafe changes a video driver to do this but I do not understand why that is the problem since 8.04 and 9.10 all behaved OK on my laptop display.

I also have a problem with a /home from 8.04/9.10 which I need to save but have unexpected difficulty to do so because of permissions required despite using sudo to get round them. Once I achieve this I can make a clean install which may clear the other problems. Any clues.?

???

---

### Post by terwase on 2011-04-20
A Similar effect happens when I try to hibernate kubuntu, it closes the GUI and drops me to a prompt and never shuts down. any help, walk around or tweaking that I should/can do?

---

