---
title: "12.04 LTS Woes...."
date: 2012-09-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nanobiophys on 2012-09-04
So I recently "upgraded" from 10.04 LTS to 12.04 LTS.  I am unable to see the close, maximize, and minimize buttons along the top of any open windows... additionally I can't even open a terminal!!  I can only open XTERM although I cant choose where on the screen it appears and I cant move it around etc.  Ive also tried terminator, ROXterm, Guake, nothing works... 

Help!

---

### Post by Paqman on 2012-09-04
Do you get the same behaviour in a fresh account? It might be useful to separate out between problems caused by residual config in your user account and actual system b0rkage.

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2012-09-04
Do you use unity?
Did you do a fresh install or an upgrade? I did a fresh install two days ago and have not had issues (yet) except a little for getting used to unity.

> **nanobiophys said:**
> I am unable to see the close, maximize, and minimize buttons along the top of any open windows... 
If you move the mouse over the title bar at the top of the screen, you should see the buttons; this applies to maximized screens

> **nanobiophys said:**
> additionally I can't even open a terminal!!
Click the dash icon and type 'term'; next click on the terminal icon.

It might be that you have tried all above, but that is not clear from your post.

---

### Post by TheMTtakeover on 2012-09-04
Perhaps try a Clean Install?

---

### Post by nanobiophys on 2012-09-04
ok so all the accounts I have had including a new one I just made have the same issue. I've been using unity I think.

Already tried opening a terminal from dash, didn't work....

Even windows that are not maximized have the issue of no title bar with close, max, min buttons....

So I changed the 'shell' to genome classic from the login screen and now I can use terminal, windows have the buttons I am looking for etc.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2012-09-04
Something funky going on with Unity then. Try reinstalling ubuntu-desktop from the command line and note any errors you get.

---

### Post by DogMatix on 2012-09-04
Have you ran the test to see if your computer can run Unity 3D

```
/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p
```

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2012-09-05
Outstanding question is still if this is an upgrade or a fresh install.

If your computer is capable of running Unity and it's an upgrade, try a fresh install. Results of upgrading vary; my 6.06 to 8.04 went flawless and my 8.04 to 10.04 was a disaster resulting in busybox.

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-09-05
> **nanobiophys said:**
> So I recently "upgraded" from 10.04 LTS to 12.04 LTS.

Wim, I'm not sure your question is so outstanding.  ;)

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2012-09-05
I upgraded from 10.04 to 12.04 by doing a fresh install on a new hard disk :D

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-09-05
> **Wim Sturkenboom said:**
> I upgraded from 10.04 to 12.04 by doing a fresh install on a new hard disk :D
Fair enough.  And yet, you still posed the question,
> Outstanding question is still if this is an upgrade or a fresh install.

Perhaps we need to adopt more concise terminology...

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2012-09-06
> Perhaps we need to adopt more concise terminology...
Agreed.

---

### Post by gscratch on 2012-09-06
this is a brand-new 12.04 on 'generic' Intel hardware

I have occasional problems with the graphics and with the left-side ribbon disappearing.

I ran the unity test suggested in a previous post and got this result:

```
glen@wildcat:~$ /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p
OpenGL vendor string:   VMware, Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: Gallium 0.4 on llvmpipe (LLVM 0x300)
OpenGL version string:  2.1 Mesa 8.0.2

Not software rendered:    no
Not blacklisted:          yes
GLX fbconfig:             yes
GLX texture from pixmap:  yes
GL npot or rect textures: yes
GL vertex program:        yes
GL fragment program:      yes
GL vertex buffer object:  yes
GL framebuffer object:    yes
GL version is 1.4+:       yes

Unity 3D supported:       no
glen@wildcat:~$ 

```

Not having 3D graphics is not a serious hardship for me.  At the login screen, clicking the ubuntu icon gives me a choice of "unity" or "unity2D".  Given the above results, is the system automatically choosing 2D and there is no reason for me to check the "2D" choice (I don't always remember to do so).  Is the choice even relevant?  

thanks,

---

