---
title: "11.04 cant update"
date: 2011-05-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by amiacamal on 2011-05-23
I just installed 11.04 on my laptop. had previously dual booted with win7 but decided to go totally ubuntu. while dual booted everything worked perfectly.

the problem right now is that even tho im connected to the internet right now, i cant update anything or dl anything from software store. i also cant get proper nvidia graphics drivers so i cant use the whole unity interface and what not either...

---

### Post by fritz269 on 2011-05-23
Might be helpful to list your system specs.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-23
> **amiacamal said:**
> I just installed 11.04 on my laptop. had previously dual booted with win7 but decided to go totally ubuntu. while dual booted everything worked perfectly.

the problem right now is that even tho im connected to the internet right now, i cant update anything or dl anything from software store. i also cant get proper nvidia graphics drivers so i cant use the whole unity interface and what not either...
Hi, try this to see if you can get package manager to work, use synaptic and not software center for installing packages that are in the repos because it also will install dependencies.
```
sudo dpkg --configure -a
sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade

```do these commands one after the other. Your nvidia driver should be in additional drivers, go to administration and you will see the additional drivers and click on the one you need when it is finish restart your computer.

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-05-23
> **amiacamal said:**
> I just installed 11.04 on my laptop. had previously dual booted with win7 but decided to go totally ubuntu. while dual booted everything worked perfectly.

the problem right now is that even tho im connected to the internet right now, i cant update anything or dl anything from software store. i also cant get proper nvidia graphics drivers so i cant use the whole unity interface and what not either...

If everything was working when you were dual booting, everything should work when you wiped windows off your system. Were you running ubuntu 11.04 when dual booting? If not what version were you running? Remember we can't help someone who doesn't help himself. Are you hard wired to the internet? If so do you have internet access? If yes to both open terminal and run sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade && sudo apt-get distro-upgrade. Report back and let me know what happens.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-05-23
You might want to go into Ubuntu Software Center and then to the Software Properties window, and try changing the mirror that you use to get software.

---

### Post by amiacamal on 2011-05-24
Sorry for the delay everyone, tried the last comment first and damnit it worked! change of mirror sorted  it! I didnt even know there were alternate mirrors :) tyvm all

---

