---
title: "10.04.3 now I need system to require password at login"
date: 2012-03-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ubume2 on 2012-03-12
I have reinstalled 10.04 on one of my machines.  During the installation process, I was prompted to allow automatic login, which I indicated I did.

That works properly.  However, now I want to require password at login.
When I get to the login screen and press my username it automatically goes to the desktop.  The system does require me to enter my keyring password.

I had reset the System Administration Login screen to require password, but when I restart the system, it does not require my password.

This is the first time I have encountered this problem

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2012-03-12
I believe you would go to **Administration** > **Users and Groups** and change it there.

---

### Post by ubume2 on 2012-03-12
> **Cavsfan said:**
> I believe you would go to **Administration** > **Users and Groups** and change it there.

Hmmm.You are correct!  I think this must have changed between 10.04.3 and 10.04.4.  Another less recent install of 10.04 allows the change to be made System Administrative Login.

thanks. :)

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2012-03-12
You are welcome! Glad I could help. :)

---

### Post by tigerlily09 on 2012-04-23
Hi, I'm on 10.04 and I'm having a similar problem. I've gone into System>Administration>Users and Groups and set the password to ask on login, but it still boots to the desktop without asking. Is there anything else I can check?

Thanks!

Deirdre

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2012-04-24
> **tigerlily09 said:**
> Hi, I'm on 10.04 and I'm having a similar problem. I've gone into System>Administration>Users and Groups and set the password to ask on login, but it still boots to the desktop without asking. Is there anything else I can check?

Thanks!

Deirdre


Maybe the change didn't update. If you reboot and go to System> Administration> Users and Groups, you should see "Password: **Asked on Login**".
If it does say the above, try clicking on "change" and set a new password.
Then reboot and see if it works.

---

