---
title: "./ hidden folder??"
date: 2011-10-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by themanfromdelmonte on 2011-10-30
I saw a couple of files that started with ./ and tried to find it with nautilus but had no joy.
I found it in bash and it appears to be the home folder for something/someone?

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Elfy on 2011-10-30
In nautilus do Ctrl+H 

It will show hidden files - things with a . are hidden by default.

---

### Post by themanfromdelmonte on 2011-10-30
./ is not just a hidden folder but a hidden root directory?

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-10-30
> **themanfromdelmonte said:**
> ./ is not just a hidden folder but a hidden root directory?

the . indicates the hidden attribute for both files and directories. and also The . refers to the working directory and the .. symbol refers to the working directory's parent directory so you can cd. to go up one or cd .. etc

There is only one / root directory from which all else branches from.

every absolute path, which is the address of a filesystem object relative to the root / directory, begins with a forward slash / 

Forward slashes / are also used as separators for filesystem objects in both absolute paths and relative paths

---

### Post by m_duck on 2011-10-30
./ tends to refer to the current folder. Or, at least that is what the . refers to. I.e. ./somefile.txt would be the file called somefile.txt in the directory you are currently in.

---

### Post by themanfromdelmonte on 2011-10-30
Thanks. I see what I was doing now.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-10-30
Good.

You can use the red **[COLOR="Red"]Thread Tools[/COLOR]** pulldown menu at the top of the page to mark the thread as solved.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-30
You might also see this in the syntax for running a shell script - usually shown as ./<somefilename>.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-10-30
> **anewguy said:**
> You might also see this in the syntax for running a shell script - usually shown as ./<somefilename>.

Dave ;)

yes but it means the same thing, you are saying the script .sh is in the current directory "." you only use ./ based on the scripts location

it is nothing to do with scripts or executables is what i mean ;-)

---

### Post by m_duck on 2011-10-30
> **haqking said:**
> yes but it means the same thing, you are saying the script .sh is in the current directory "." you only use ./ based on the scripts location

it is nothing to do with scripts or executables is what i mean ;-)
Yeah, by default scripts and binaries are set not to run from the current directory if it is not in your PATH. The ./ syntax is a nice short way of referring to a script in the current directory, whilst effectively supplying its full path, allowing it to run.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-30
Yep - I was just thinking that might be where the OP has seen it mentioned.

Dave ;)

---

