---
title: "19.10 to 20.04 LTS release?"
date: 2020-04-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Joe_Martin on 2020-04-02
Is it possible if you are running 19.10, upgrade to 20.04 when it's released, then stay with 20.04 by changing preferences (at that time) to "Notify for long-term support versions" instead of "For any new version"?  Or, because I installed 19.10 I need to stay with the 6-month point release cycle?

Thanks.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2020-04-02
There's no difference (other than usage cruft) between a freshly installed version and an upgraded version. Once you're on an LTS release you can stay there till support runs out if you want. You can also do upgrades whenever you want regardless of the notification settings.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-04-02
Yes you can change from all releases, to LTS only, or when on 22.04 sometime in the future switch back to all release path.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Upgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Upgrades) has some detail on upgrade policy (I know there is a better document with diagrams/pictures, but I couldn't find it sorry).

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2020-04-03
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo apt dist-upgrade
sudo apt clean
sudo apt install update-manager-core
sudo do-release-upgrade -d
```

Dead easy

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-03
> **ActionParsnip said:**
> sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo apt dist-upgrade
sudo apt clean
sudo apt install update-manager-core
sudo do-release-upgrade -d

Dead easy

Not "dead easy" (for newbies), **not recommended unless you explicitly want the development brunch** and  has a mistake: With 'apt' instead of 'apt-get', it's **'full-upgrade'**, not 'dist-upgrade'.

---

