---
title: "10.04 Atheros AR9485 168c:0032 Wireless not working"
date: 2012-04-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Achilla137 on 2012-04-27
Ok so I bought a new laptop, Asus x53e and it has an Atheros AR9485 198c:0032 wireless chipset on it and I can't seem to get it to work. The wifi light wont turn on, it doesn't show up under ifconfig or iwconfig and when I tried going to the Hardware Drivers it didn't show anything. I managed to get my lan working fine which I'm happy about, but I really need my wireless! Please if you have any suggestions I'm willing to try anything at this point!

oh and i tried doing ndiswrapper, but no matter what i tried i couldn't seem to get the windows driver .inf file no matter where i looked. the other driver i noticed though was an atheros AR8185 driver and i got it to work which i'm assuming that is for my lan hhaha

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2012-04-27
One quick thought:
Does your keyboard have an Fn key on the bottom left corner of the keyboard (probably next to the Ctrl key)? Plus, does one of your F1 through F12 keys have an antenna on it? If so, depress the Fn key and then depress the F? key to turn the WiFi on.

Some Laptops have a hardware key (linked to the Fn key) to turn on WiFi and the software doesn't pick it up. On my Zareason mini, the WiFi hardware key fails to stay on after shut down, reboot or log out. Since the Fn key is not recognized by software, it needs to be manually turned on.

Good Luck & hope this helps. If not, then hopefully another member will help with solutions.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-04-27
Please open a terminal and run and post the results of these commands:```
lsmod | grep -e ath -e ndis
rfkill list all
```The pipe symbol | is on the right side of my US keyboard on the same key with \. Thanks.

---

### Post by Achilla137 on 2012-04-27
it is the fn + f2 which works with windows but not on linux.

i typed both of those in terminal but i received no output :/

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-04-27
Please try this:```
sudo su
modprobe ath9k
echo "168c 0032" >> /sys/bus/pci/drivers/ath9k/new_id
iwconfig
exit
```Is your wireless working? If so, we'll need to tweak a file to make it persistent.

---

### Post by Achilla137 on 2012-04-27
did everything you said, then when i did iwconfig it says

lo         no wireless extensions

eth0     no wireless extensions


still no luck

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-04-27
Let's try it a bit differently:```
sudo su
modprobe ath9k
echo "168[COLOR="Red"]C[/COLOR] 0032" [COLOR="Red"]>[/COLOR] /sys/bus/pci/drivers/ath9k/new_id
iwconfig
exit
```

---

### Post by Achilla137 on 2012-04-27
same thing

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-04-28
Let's see:```
lspci -nn | grep 0280
lsmod | grep asus
```Thanks.

---

### Post by hairypete2000 on 2012-09-10
Hi and thanks for a solution, the line of commands below makes my Wifi works, until I reboot.

> sudo su 
modprobe ath9k 
echo "168c 0032" >> /sys/bus/pci/drivers/ath9k/new_id 
iwconfig 
exitCould someone please help me make these permanent, I don't even know what to begin to search for.

Best regards,
Peter

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-09-10
> **hairypete2000 said:**
> Hi and thanks for a solution, the line of commands below makes my Wifi works, until I reboot.

Could someone please help me make these permanent, I don't even know what to begin to search for.

Best regards,
PeterPlease try this:```
sudo gedit /etc/rc.local
```Add two lines above 'exit 0':```
modprobe ath9k
echo "168c 0032" >> /sys/bus/pci/drivers/ath9k/new_id 
```Proofread, save and close. Now does it work automatically on boot?

There are easier ways to do this: Ubuntu 12.04LTS, for example.

---

### Post by hairypete2000 on 2012-09-10
It works like a charm. You are now my hero :P

Many thanks,
Peter

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-09-10
Oh, man!!!! I was shooting for super-hero!

Glad it's working. Have fun!

---

