---
title: "File Permission Problem"
date: 2010-03-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by djmac on 2010-03-15
I am having problems changing the permission of a folder, or more accurately, a hard drive. 

I can access the hard drive as root (via sudo nautilus), with no problems what so ever, (can read and write etc). However I cannot seem to modify the permissions of the hard drive. I have been trying to modify the permission of the mount point (which I suspect is the issue). I have tried ```
chmod 777 -R /media/disk1
```

(/media/disk1 is the mount point)

I have also tried to do it through nautilus (as root), but the field change back to the defaults as soon as you try and change them.

Any ideas?

Thankyou

---

### Post by frt975 on 2010-03-15
What filesystem is the drive?
Permisions don't work on FAT or FAT32 drives.

---

### Post by djmac on 2010-03-15
The filesystem is NTFS

---

### Post by frt975 on 2010-03-15
I wasn't sure about NFTS, but after a bit of research, I found out it doesn't support file permissions.
What is the reason you want to chmod it?

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2010-03-15
Even when you're root, when dealing with root-owned objects, you need to use 'sudo' before the command so it knows you're doing it as root.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-03-15
You can mount an NTFS partition by adding a setting in fstab. The easiest way to do this is with the NTFS configuration tool.

Add the package with:
```
sudo apt-get install ntfs-config
```

Start the app via: System, Administration, NTFS Configuration Tool.

If you aren't sure of how to run the app, a quick search on these forums will provide plenty of posts.

---

### Post by djmac on 2010-03-15
I want to be able to access (read and write) the disk without being root. I also want to be able to access the folder over a network (via samba). (There is lots of files on it, it is a storage disk). I cannot even access it via sshd, or use basic copy commands to / from it using SSH.

 It used to be accessable to all users on the computer, and over the network. I have inadvertently changed something. And now it is not. I believe file permission are the issue (as I can accesss it from root of the host computer), but I could be wrong!!

Thanks again.

---

### Post by corncob on 2010-03-15
Try
```
gksudo "dbus-launch nautilus --no-desktop --browser %U"
```
I got this from the forum but can't find the thread.  It gives errors when run in Terminal but go on or make a launcher out of it.  See if it works.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2010-03-15
Is this an internal or external hard drive?  It sounds like the mount options are not set correctly.  Can you please post the output of the following commands:
```
cat /etc/fstab
sudo fdisk -l
sudo blkid
mount
```

---

### Post by djmac on 2010-03-15
> **drs305 said:**
> You can mount an NTFS partition by adding a setting in fstab. The easiest way to do this is with the NTFS configuration tool.

Add the package with:
```
sudo apt-get install ntfs-config
```

Start the app via: System, Administration, NTFS Configuration Tool.

If you aren't sure of how to run the app, a quick search on these forums will provide plenty of posts.

This worked perfectly. (Not sure exactly what it did, but it worked!!). Can now access the folders (read and write and over samba)

Thanks a lot!!

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-03-15
> **djmac said:**
> This worked perfectly. (Not sure exactly what it did, but it worked!!). Can now access the folders (read and write and over samba)

Thanks a lot!!

ntfs-config adds an entry to the system file */etc/fstab*. As was mentioned, access permissions for NTFS formatted partitions are set at the time of mounting and cannot be changed after the partition is mounted. 

The fstab entry generated by ntfs-config adds the entry to fstab which allows users other than root the ability to read and write to the mounted NTFS partition.

An excellent guide to fstab written by bodhi.zazen explains exactly what each entry on the fstab line means. Here is the link:
[Understanding fstab]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?&t=283131")

You can see the generated line in your fstab by running this command:
```
cat /etc/fstab | grep ntfs
```

---

