---
title: "16.04 Not Remembering Password"
date: 2016-08-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sixgunSal on 2016-08-04
I have been using 16.04 for about a week now and 3 out of the last 5 days (actually more then this) when i try and install software or other stuff that requires me to authenticate my password it says I'm wrong.  I get 3 tries and then it resets(?) back to where I was before authenticating.  I have found the easiest way for me out of this is to just re-install 16.04.  When I'm prompted for a password I always use the same easy one so it's not that I'm not remembering the current one.  I'm getting tired of having to install again and again so I'm hoping I can get this figured out.  I'm enjoying Ubuntu and I would like to keep using it.  I am new to this and have been trying to read one of the on line teaching manuals to get better acquainted with it.
thank you

---

### Post by mook765 on 2016-08-04
The password is case sensitive. Maybe your Caps Lock is toggled, that would lead to an incorrect input....

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-08-04
Hello!

Ubuntu can neither remember nor forget your password.  That is part of a configuration file stored on your disk.  It may be changed or deleted, but not "forgotten".

Don't throw the baby out with the bath water by continuously reinstalling.  Identify the problem and, if possible, solve it instead.

If this is happening over multiple installs, then I don't think it is related to the OS.  Next time this happens when you try to install something, reboot your machine.  Can you log in with the password?  If so, then consider things like the caps lock or numbers lock for a solution.

If you cannot log back in, your password may have been changed.  Notice that I did not say "your password may have changed".  I said "your password may have been changed."  Some agent outside your computer would have been responsible for that.  Your password will not spontaneously change just because your computer decides to up and change it.  Your machine does not have a will of its own.

Is you machine in a place accessible by others?  Do you have a room mate?  Do you use an unsecured wireless connection?

---

### Post by 1clue on 2016-08-04
Check your keyboard layout.

---

### Post by thatsallurspaceships on 2016-08-04
can you please use the onscreen keyboard for login, there might be aswell a problem with keyboard so you might aswell plug in another one to see if it helps
also there is alot of things missing you can add information about your system& whatnot

---

### Post by sixgunSal on 2016-08-04
I checked all the caps on/off stuff and and rebooted it again but couldn't get by the long on screen where it asks you to sign in with your password.  I was locked out of it.  I booted into windows 10. i was unable to try different keys not being able to get in.  I ended up deleting the main ubuntu partition again and allocation all of it to c:/windows using partition manager.  I left the small one as is.  Booted into the Ubuntu disk and re-installed it again along side windows 10...tested keyboard in the install.  Accepted password that was just newly set in install. am going to try and install a dvd burning app to make it ask for my password again.  My other problem was getting my printer to work but that will be a defferent thread....I have done some readying on it so far so maybe it will work this time.  thank you all for taking the time to help.  This time tomorrow I'm hoping things go right and maybe I can close this.

---

### Post by yetimon_64 on 2016-08-06
> **sixgunSal said:**
> I checked all the caps on/off stuff and and rebooted it again but couldn't get by the long on screen where it asks you to sign in with your password.  I was locked out of it.  I booted into windows 10. i was unable to try different keys not being able to get in.  I ended up deleting the main ubuntu partition again and allocation all of it to c:/windows using partition manager.  I left the small one as is.  Booted into the Ubuntu disk and re-installed it again along side windows 10...tested keyboard in the install.  Accepted password that was just newly set in install. am going to try and install a dvd burning app to make it ask for my password again.  My other problem was getting my printer to work but that will be a defferent thread....I have done some readying on it so far so maybe it will work this time.  thank you all for taking the time to help.  This time tomorrow I'm hoping things go right and maybe I can close this.

One more issue that springs to mind here is you may be using capital letters or other non standard characters in the user name. The installer will allow you to use them but the system unknown to yourself may be replacing certain non standard characters or capitalized letters with an underscore blocking you from actually logging in/authenticating etc.

Ensure when entering your username you don't use any capital letters or keyboard characters, if you do use such when installing try using an underscore where the capital letter or unusual character was entered in the installer at the log in page. This may very well let you into the system in such circumstances until you change the log in credentials (particularly the user name).

---

### Post by tsjswimmer on 2016-08-14
FYI, if you can start Ubuntu in recovery mode, you can change your own password. Enter the root shell, and run the following:```
mount -o rw,remount /
passwd username
``` Make sure to replace "username" with whatever your user name is.

If you can't get into a recovery root shell, you use a bootable live key (that is, a CD, DVD, flashdrive, or whatever with a bootable Ubuntu), instead of recovery mode. You have to mount your Ubuntu partition (the easiest way to do this is to click on your partition in your file manager), then use **sudo chroot /mountpoint[b], replacing "mount point" with the the location where your partition is mounted (typically somewhere in /media), and [B]passwd username** just like above (the mount command won't be necessary).

---

