---
title: "9.04 ati video driver"
date: 2010-01-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by aparolin on 2010-01-11
greetings;

i have loaded 9.04 on a clean hp media center m7250n pc.  (only operating system)

the specs show an ati radeon x300e video card.
do i have to download a driver for this card?
or does 9.04 have the driver included in the installation...
i have been online with no video problems, but will i need an upgraded driver for the following: 

i am trying to load and play either enemy territory and/or assault cube games.

thanx for yur input...

add any suggestions on installing these games?

alan

---

### Post by ibninja on 2010-01-11
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)
That has instructions for the driver for 9.10. I imagine they would work for 9.04 as well.
Assaultcube works under WINE, Enemy Territory does not. Install WINE and use it to open the assaultcube installer. Maybe Cadega (not free) could run enemy territory, but I don;t know where to check that.

---

### Post by DamenW on 2010-01-11
if its only for the ati driver(s) go to,

System, Administration,  Hardware,

and enable the proprietary hardware drivers

---

### Post by halitech on 2010-01-11
9.04 comes with the opensource driver installed by default. There is no proprietary ATI driver as ATI dropped support for their "old" cards (ie. anything below the HD2400 series)

The BinaryDriver Howto refers to Catalyst 9.10 which does not support the x300 series of cards (check page 3 of the pdf file that is linked to in the howto)

Basically you have 2 options, downgrade to Ubuntu 8.10 or 8.04 or upgrade the video card if you need better driver support.

---

### Post by aparolin on 2010-01-12
thanx for yur help..

all notes taken and will be evaluated

again, thanx

alan:)

---

