---
title: "9.1 Beta OK at this late date?"
date: 2009-10-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by hugha on 2009-10-12
I am currently running 9.04.  I am considering running 9.10.  Is the Beta OK to go ahead and install at 17 days from release?

I am considering running a clean install and setting up Swiss Center. 

Any help or advice much appreciated.

Hugh

---

### Post by MelDJ on 2009-10-12
no. the beta version is unstable. why go through the hassle of installing ubuntu twice anyway?

---

### Post by TheStroj on 2009-10-12
I recommend that you stay on Jaunty, but you can also try Karmic.
You could try to dual boot it and see if it's ok and it fits all your needs.

---

### Post by powel212 on 2009-10-12
You can also try running it in virtualbox.

Wait for the full release. Karmic is nice but it is not bug free yet.

Just a couple more weeks.

Hang in there.

Powel

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-10-12
> **MelDJ said:**
> no. the beta version is unstable. why go through the hassle of installing ubuntu twice anyway?

I don't follow your maths. You install Ubuntu 9.10 beta and update it whenever the Update Manager says to. When the Release Candidate is out, then you'll have the RC. When the release version comes out, you'll have the release version. You are installing it once and then upgrading it through.

Historically, Ubuntu betas have been very stable, and Karmic is no different. If you'd like to try it at this stage, then go for it; just make sure you apply the updates before passing judgement :-)

---

### Post by coldReactive on 2009-10-12
> **3rdalbum said:**
> I don't follow your maths. You install Ubuntu 9.10 beta and update it whenever the Update Manager says to. When the Release Candidate is out, then you'll have the RC. When the release version comes out, you'll have the release version. You are installing it once and then upgrading it through.

Historically, Ubuntu betas have been very stable, and Karmic is no different. If you'd like to try it at this stage, then go for it; just make sure you apply the updates before passing judgement :-)

The first update that will happen will say: Partial Upgrade, sadly; and they say you shouldn't do them. But trying to cancel it and doing a full upgrade will give a big fat error message.

---

### Post by Hated On Mostly on 2009-10-12
Don't do it, especially if Jaunty works perfectly fine for you. The beta is highly unstable and shouldn't actually be called a beta or posted on the main page of ubuntu.com.

---

### Post by MelDJ on 2009-10-12
> **3rdalbum said:**
> I don't follow your maths. You install Ubuntu 9.10 beta and update it whenever the Update Manager says to. When the Release Candidate is out, then you'll have the RC. When the release version comes out, you'll have the release version. You are installing it once and then upgrading it through.

Historically, Ubuntu betas have been very stable, and Karmic is no different. If you'd like to try it at this stage, then go for it; just make sure you apply the updates before passing judgement :-)

its quite a hassle, than just getting the final version. you don't have to do a 9.04-9.10 beta- 9.10 update but a more straightforward 9.04-9.10 update :)

---

### Post by bwallum on 2009-10-12
Not for production yet. It's reasonably stable if you just want to play but expect possible issues around sound. 

I recommend waiting for the final version. 

If you like the idea of bugreporting and contributing then set yourself up with a test platform and get involved with Lucid. I have found it very illuminating and educational. The approach I took was to buy an external hard drive and set up the development version upon it. Then I run the 'development' drive on my existing rig without mounting my production drive(s). Purists would say to be really safe you should set up a complete machine and dedicate it to testing,

---

### Post by ptn107 on 2009-10-12
The earliest pre-release snapshot I recommend installing is the release candidate on Oct 22 and afterwards you can just update to the final release.  It is true the beta has been almost rock-solid but some people experience problems.  Install or upgrade to karmic at your own risk.  Backups are mandatory beforehand, period.

---

### Post by Northern Mike on 2009-10-12
My 2 cents, I find the beta to be fully functional and stable with my hardware.

---

### Post by TheNessus on 2009-10-12
I got the beta, it was very smooth, very sweet, very awesome. However, when it upgraded stuff with the auto upgrade, it would not load from GRUB. I had to reinstall. and the 185. nVidia driver that is supposed to be the default is simply not there (180. is not there either).

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-10-13
Wait for the final release.

The Beta is not bug free. For instance I had to install it several times, because after some updates Ubuntu wasn't even loading. The problem was the nvidia 185 driver (bug already reported). Additionally, the new Grub is also buggy. For me it takes 23 seconds to load, but for other people it takes minutes or not even load at all.

That being said, Karmic is awesome. I'm very impressed.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2009-10-13
> **Northern Mike said:**
> My 2 cents, I find the beta to be fully functional and stable with my hardware.

The problem with betas (and even more so alphas) is that there's a lot of updates coming through. Even though these should mostly be bugfixes and not new features by this stage, there is always the chance that they'll break your system. So a beta that's behaving itself today could become a nightmare overnight.

---

### Post by freak42 on 2009-10-13
don't, its beta for a reason. period

---

### Post by yeats on 2009-10-13
> You can also try running it in virtualbox.

+1 for this suggestion, if you have the resources (memory & HD space).

---

### Post by stans on 2009-10-13
I was having major lockup problems with Jaunty so had nothing to lose by upgrading to Karmic. Glad I did... lockups almost gone now. I'm very happy, Beta or not.

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-10-13
I see that you installed mythbuntu 8.10 beta a year ago. How did you like it? 

I would tend to say not to upgrade to the beta at this moment, since you are posting this in the absolute beginners forum subsection. I don't think it will cause heavy breakage on your system, although I've seen reports of b0rked kernels and other issues that might pop up. Like said, it is a beta and it could break your system. Just wait a few weeks and then do the upgrade.

---

### Post by Zill on 2009-10-13
> **slakkie said:**
> ...I would tend to say not to upgrade to the beta at this moment, since you are posting this in the absolute beginners forum subsection...

I quite agree - it always amazes me that "absolute beginners" with, presumably. zero or little Linux experience happily install alpha or beta software.  Don't they understand that such software is for **testing** purposes only?

Of course, we then have the difficult task of *trying* to repair their broken systems afterwards!

---

