---
title: "11.04 How do I save MP3?"
date: 2012-02-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2012-02-11
I ran into some MP3 audio stream files on the internet. Running Linux 11.04 and was wondering if there is a way I can capture and save these files for future playing without going to that specific website in the future. Just remember I am a beginner and this is all new to me. :>)

Thank You.

gumshoegrant

---

### Post by ron999 on 2012-02-11
Which mp3 streams do you want to save?

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2012-02-11
> **ron999 said:**
> Which mp3 streams do you want to save?

I don't understand your question since I have never done this before. They are audio files.

---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2012-02-11
Presuming the files are presented as links on the site in question just right-click on the link in Firefox and take the option for "Save link as..." - which will then either ask you where to save the file or automatically save it into your Downloads folder.

If it is actually an mp3 stream rather than file then it gets a little more tricky.

---

### Post by blueshead on 2012-02-11
If your using Firefox.. Download helper might work..

[http://www.downloadhelper.net/]("http://www.downloadhelper.net/")

---

### Post by winh8r on 2012-02-11
Search for streamripper in the ubuntu software centre.


or use soundrecorder

---

### Post by KingYaba on 2012-02-11
If you can open the stream in VLC you can use VLC to capture the stream and save it in a wide variety of formats. I typically do this for radio broadcasts. Be sure to edit the settings because I think the default is 128kbps for mp3. I use 64.

---

### Post by Scott Baker on 2012-02-11
If you could, please share the source of the streams. It will help greatly in getting you the right info on how to save these files. Keep in mind though that some streams are encrypted, and will not allow you to save them directly to your machine, but you can save (bookmark) them in your web browser.  :guitar:

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2012-02-12
These files were not streamed so I was able to save them by right clicking and "Save link as".

Now is there a way to take these saved MP3 files and burn them to a CD so I can play them in my car?

---

### Post by joetait on 2012-02-12
> **gumshoegrant said:**
> These files were not streamed so I was able to save them by right clicking and "Save link as".

Now is there a way to take these saved MP3 files and burn them to a CD so I can play them in my car?

If you open brasero, you can select start a new audio project, add the files you want (it has instructions on screen). Put a blank cd in, select it from the drop down menu at the bottom and click burn :)

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2012-02-12
Want to thank all for their helpful comments saving the files and how to save streams. 
Take Care All.

gumshoegrant

---

