---
title: ".run drirvers won't open"
date: 2009-05-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by theo.ew on 2009-05-25
I need to download a driver for my motherboard which is a GeForce 4 MX. 

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_x86_96.43.11.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_x86_96.43.11.html)

That's the link to the driver page.

However, the driver is in the .run format which won't open on the Ubuntu 9.04 computer. 

I am downloading the driver because it is at a 640x480 resolution and I am assuming it is because it does not have the driver for the motherboard. I do not have a graphics card installed. 

How am i  supposed to run the driver if ubuntu doesn't recognize the .run extension?

---

### Post by MRiGnS on 2009-05-25
open a terminal and run sudo sh <filename>.run

But maybe it's easier to use EnvyNG

[http://albertomilone.com/envyngfaq.html](http://albertomilone.com/envyngfaq.html)

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-05-25
Have you checked System, Administration, Hardware Drivers?

---

### Post by TheNosh on 2009-05-25
just right click the .run file and go to properties, there should be something along the lines of "allow this file to run as program" (i don't recall exactly what it says but it's something like that)

apply that and then you should just be able to double click it

cheers

---

### Post by theo.ew on 2009-05-26
thanks guys....i'll try both your answers.

---

### Post by theo.ew on 2009-05-26
here's what happened...

I set the program to run as a program as (i think it was The Nosh) told me to do. I double-clicked it(opened it in the terminal) and it said I needed to run it as root. How do I do that?
(As you can see, I am a total beginner to Ubuntu) :)

I have gone to System>Administration>Drivers but that only enables effects and the highest resolution is still 640x480.

---

### Post by dark_prince on 2009-05-26
**From commandline, browse towards the run file. and execute it as**
_sudo nvidia.run_ or what so ever :)

it will work but it wil require alot of libraries and what i know from past mandriva's experience, it requires a heap of libraries (one by one, doesnt give the list of requirements. U fullfil one, it gives u another required library which u have to manually download) 

GL. 

Why not use default drivers coz these drivers, after being isntalled are reported to have incompatiblity with the default xorg config file (in case of slax/nimblex/mandriva)

---

### Post by Didius Falco on 2009-05-26
Hi,

*Y*ou'd use ```
sudo sh filename.run
```, You'll need to enter your password and then it will run.

*MRiGnS* had it right in post #2

Regards,

Didius

---

### Post by wizard10000 on 2009-05-26
> **oldos2er said:**
> Have you checked System, Administration, Hardware Drivers?

Yup.

There won't be any advantage to installing Nvidia's drivers on a card that old - the restricted driver will work just fine and he won't have to reinstall the driver after every kernel upgrade.

---

### Post by theo.ew on 2009-05-26
after going to drivers in the administration menu and enabling the latest driver(it says that enabling the driver will allow visual effects) the highest resolution available is still the same but visual effects  are now enabled. Is the chipset possible so old that it doesn't support a resolution over 600x480? Just a thought.

---

### Post by wizard10000 on 2009-05-26
> **theo.ew said:**
> after going to drivers in the administration menu and enabling the latest driver(it says that enabling the driver will allow visual effects) the highest resolution available is still the same but visual effects  are now enabled. Is the chipset possible so old that it doesn't support a resolution over 600x480? Just a thought.

That old GeForce has enough juice to go a lot higher than that.  What happens when you try to change the screen resolution?  Which tool are you using to change it?

---

### Post by theo.ew on 2009-05-26
I'm using the program that comes with NIVIDA driver. I also use the one built into Ubuntu(Preferences/Display). Neither will go above 640x480.

---

