---
title: "12.04 Blank Screen / NVIDIA Issue"
date: 2012-05-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by yamafx4dude on 2012-05-17
I installed 12.04 on my laptop by itself. Clean and simple. Everything went fine, but, boot and log into ubuntu and there is nothing on the screen but the background image. I can right click and get into settings but that's it. It does not have the side bar, or anything else on the desktop.      

This laptop is an HP pavilion dv2000 series with a Nvidia card in it. Im 99% sure its the Nvidia driver however I have about 5 hours worth of ubuntu experience so not sure where to begin to resolve. Any help?

BTW: Im 99% sure because of internet searches, and my experience with HP/NVidia as every problem I have ever had with this laptop has been because of the NVidia card / driver. I went with UBuntu thinking I could actually use this laptop and this happens.

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-05-18
Hi!, [B]yamafx4dude,
[/B]
Can you get a Text Terminal log-in prompt by pressing 'Ctrl+Alt+F1' [or F2-F6] ??

If so, login, enter your password and press 'Enter'.

Run: ```
lspci  -nnk | grep -i  VGA
lsmod | grep nv 
modinfo nvidia
```and Post results here; highlight them and click on the '#' symbol above the New Entry edit box, to insert them in a Code box.

[ From the last cmd only the first 10 lines are needed.]

Chao!,** bogan**.

---

### Post by Dave_in_MD on 2012-05-18
> **yamafx4dude said:**
> I installed 12.04 on my laptop by itself. Clean and simple. Everything went fine, but, boot and log into ubuntu and there is nothing on the screen but the background image. I can right click and get into settings but that's it. It does not have the side bar, or anything else on the desktop.      

This laptop is an HP pavilion dv2000 series with a Nvidia card in it. Im 99% sure its the Nvidia driver however I have about 5 hours worth of ubuntu experience so not sure where to begin to resolve. Any help?

BTW: Im 99% sure because of internet searches, and my experience with HP/NVidia as every problem I have ever had with this laptop has been because of the NVidia card / driver. I went with UBuntu thinking I could actually use this laptop and this happens.
I also have a Nvidia card withthe same symptoms the first install.  I even ran update from the details screen.   So I re installed, same issue.  The live CD worked perfectly.  Next time you log in click the Ubuntu symbol and select 2D worked for mine.  I guess just no 3D for us Nvidia users until someone smart comes up with a fix.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-05-18
I know that this is not much of an answer but if this is a new install without data that you do not want to loose, then re-install and this time do not check (tick) the box to install proprietary software.

I think that you will find that ticking that option will also install a proprietary video driver such as the Nvidia one. Which as it turns out might be faulty.

By not installing proprietary software you will have the open source video driver (Nouveau) activated. And you will get a working desktop.

You can then install the Restricted Extras package through the Ubuntu Software Centre.

You may also find that Nouveau will run Unity 3D. I had the same problems trying out an early version of 12.10. I am using it now with the Nouveau video driver and I have Unity 3D. You just might find that you do not need the Nvidia driver. But be careful setting any Compiz special effects. I have wobbly windows working but I do not know about any of the others.

To find out if you are using Unity 3D with Nouveau run either of these commands

```
echo ${DESKTOP_SESSION}
```

will give either Ubuntu or Ubuntu 2D

```
/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test --print
```

will give something like this:

> OpenGL vendor string:   nouveau
OpenGL renderer string: Gallium 0.4 on NVA5
OpenGL version string:  2.1 Mesa 8.0.2

Not software rendered:    yes
Not blacklisted:          yes
GLX fbconfig:             yes
GLX texture from pixmap:  yes
GL npot or rect textures: yes
GL vertex program:        yes
GL fragment program:      yes
GL vertex buffer object:  yes
GL framebuffer object:    yes
GL version is 1.4+:       yes

Unity 3D supported:       yes

As you can see, not only does my video card support Unity 3D but the driver is Nouveau.

Regards.

---

### Post by Dave_in_MD on 2012-05-19
Thank You [U]grahammechanical for pointing me in the right direction.  I used the 'additional drivers ' under settings to remove both Nvidia drivers, rebooted and I now have 3D.  I can now reduce the launcher Icons to a more agreeable size. 


[/U]

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-05-19
Hi!, **grahammechanical**,

You Posted:> To find out if you are using Unity 3D with Nouveau run either of these commands```
echo ${DESKTOP_SESSION}
```will give either Ubuntu or Ubuntu 2DWith my 12.04 logged-in as ubuntu, this gives a blank line.

Edit: I see elseware this command quoted as : "echo $DESKTOP_SESSION", but that also gives a blank line.

Edit2: Apologies: I just re-installed 'ubuntu-desktop' which got removed whilst purging 'nvidia-current' and now 'echo $DESKTOP_SESSION', with or without the brackets, gives what you predicted.> ```
/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test --print
```I do not see how the output of the /nux/ support_test can be interpreted to show if unity 2 or 3d is running, merely that the system supports it, or not; mine gives straight 'yes'es, with the nvidia 295.53 driver and a GT7650 card.

Can you please clarify?

The only way I know to tell if I am running 2d or 3d is the size of the icons in the left-hand launcher; smaller for 3d, large and not reducible in 2d.

Chao!, **bogan**.

---

### Post by yamafx4dude on 2012-05-21
Thanks to all who posted a reply. Two solutions in one..... 


1. I obtained another copy of ubuntu and installed via USB instead of disc. Suddenly I had all the sidebar programs.......?? Not sure where or how this made a difference. Still had issues with the nvidia driver.   

2. NVidia driver:

[http://www.noobslab.com/2011/09/nvidia-drivers-for-ubuntu-1110-oneiric.html](http://www.noobslab.com/2011/09/nvidia-drivers-for-ubuntu-1110-oneiric.html)

"You can update your drivers with x-swat ppa and to install Nvidia card latest drivers use this ppa.To install/Update Nvidia card drivers open Terminal (Press Alt+F2 and type: gnome-terminal) and type the following commands in the terminal:

sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current

(Thanks to the source)

Hopefully this helps another complete ubuntu noob. 

Thanks again.

---

