---
title: "8.10 freezing consistently"
date: 2008-12-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by manuleka on 2008-12-04
i'm just installed Ubuntu 8.10 on my AMD Athlon64 3000+ box which runs ATI X600 Graphics... 

i get regular freezing... now a few times when i cold restart the machine it came up with Video Graphics Errors and forced itself to run on safe [low] graphics mode...

i disabled the ATI proprietary drivers... i even do full reinstallations twice.. 

i'm suspecting it to be a graphics card issue - this is a previously Windows XP Pro box with everything running soundly on it... 

now my switch to Linux isn't as smooth as i'd expect it to be :(
I was going to change my MSI WIND laptop to fully run on Ubuntu, now i'm having second thoughts... 

I am hunting around for another Video Card to see if it will fix the problem otherwise i'll stick with Windows :(

---

### Post by Zzl1xndd on 2008-12-04
I would try running with the standard or Open Source ATI drivers if you can for a while to do some testing.

---

### Post by manuleka on 2008-12-06
where can i get an open source ATI Driver?

---

### Post by blackvd on 2008-12-11
I'm having the same issue with constant freezing. Started a thread here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6340960#post6340960]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6340960#post6340960") 

with no replies and not expecting to get any either. Been a year using Ubuntu but it might be time to switch.

---

### Post by HavocXphere on 2008-12-11
Kinda weird that its still happening after disabling the proprietary drivers...makes me think that the open source driver might not help. If the vesa driver is crashing then something else is wrong.

I'd also warn against "windows works 100% so hardware is fine". OSs work very differently so faulty hardware might kill the one and not touch the other. e.g. bad sectors on harddrive: Windows put might (via pure luck) use the bad sectors for the recycle bin whil linux happens to use it for the swap. Hence very different results.

btw Are you running x64 or x86?

---

### Post by Toshibawarrior on 2008-12-11
You might want to make a fresh install of Ubuntu just in case and let Ubuntu use the proprietary drivers for a while...if the problem persists use the Open Source ones.

I'm sorry, but I don't have ATI cards, just an Intel Integrated in my laptop and NVIDIA on my desktop, but I believe that could help. ***_Just remember to back up your important data!_***

---

### Post by lametike on 2008-12-11
yea,i got freezing too(even i used the drivers for my nvida ge force,strange freezing....)

---

### Post by hobo89 on 2008-12-11
I had this problem a while back, turns out the fan on the graphics card wasn't working properly so it was overheating. Perhaps check that? And that the airflow isn't blocked anywhere.

---

### Post by blackvd on 2008-12-12
> **hobo89 said:**
> I had this problem a while back, turns out the fan on the graphics card wasn't working properly so it was overheating. Perhaps check that? And that the airflow isn't blocked anywhere.

I took your advise and checked inside my computer since I recently built it. Looked as though some wires could have been knocking out my fan so I moved them. Also when I tested my ram the first time I had errors but after replacing them and testing them one at a time they tested fine. Also I install Linux Mint 5 which uses Hardy and between all that my computer hasn't froze yet.

---

### Post by 2hot6ft2 on 2008-12-12
Believe it or not the freezes seem to tie into the sound Pulse Audio (when not configured properly) can send the cpu to 100% causing the freeze. This has been reported by several people and the solution is here for that.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4928900](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4928900)

I was having freezes too and since completing the how to have not had a freeze at all.

This may or may not be your particular issue but it's where I would start after reading everything I have.

---

### Post by manuleka on 2008-12-12
sometimes the freezing happens even halfway through installation... or when Ubuntu Loads up... weird... i manage to get hold of a Geforce 6200 GPU and thought it was a graphics issue but no, after partitioning my drives it automatically loads up Ubuntu Live (i opted for a Full Installation)... then yellow warning pops up of the corner saying crashed program or something... then after a while it froze :(

---

