---
title: "9.04 crashed twice"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by methodmarvel on 2009-04-24
I installed 9.04 from the torrents file at [http://releases.ubuntu.com/jaunty/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/jaunty/)

After burning the CD, md5sum checking it, and doing the "check CD for defects" option on booting from the CD I installed ubuntu using the option "install ubuntu".

The first time I did this it froze at 57% into the installation.

I rebooted and started the install again and this time was successful.

Later that day using 9.04 it froze again while I was rapidly unchecking some tick boxes in transmission.

These freezes or crashes resulted in the mouse stopping moving and all keys and short cuts of the keyboard becoming inactive (including ctrl alt backspace - though I've heard this is disabled in 9.04?). I had to hold the power button and manually restart. After this it has been functional for ~1 day.
[SIZE="4"]
**I was wondering if there is anyway to find out what caused the second crash - any log file or such which could help me diagnose the problem. I do not want it happening again.**[/SIZE]

---

### Post by mbzn on 2009-04-24
can you use Ctrl+Alt+F1 and get into the shell?

---

### Post by methodmarvel on 2009-04-24
> **mbzn said:**
> can you use Ctrl+Alt+F1 and get into the shell?

I can right now - I don't think I could during a crash. I remember trying.

---

### Post by methodmarvel on 2009-04-25
Sorry to bump this but I just want to make sure my janty install isn't going to let me down

---

### Post by Michaelg14 on 2009-04-25
I am also having random freezes with 9.04 and no you can't do any keyboard functions. The only option is a full reset.  It can happen during boot or after running 24 hours, it is completely random.

---

### Post by methodmarvel on 2009-04-28
> **Michaelg14 said:**
> I am also having random freezes with 9.04 and no you can't do any keyboard functions. The only option is a full reset.  It can happen during boot or after running 24 hours, it is completely random.

I've gone back to hardy for now simply because it doesn't crash for me.

Stability is a big deal for me so I might consider switching to debian but I've never had much success installing it. Plus it seems less compatible than ubuntu.

Anyone else having freezes?

---

### Post by reymon on 2009-04-30
> **methodmarvel said:**
> I've gone back to hardy for now simply because it doesn't crash for me.

Stability is a big deal for me so I might consider switching to debian but I've never had much success installing it. Plus it seems less compatible than ubuntu.

Anyone else having freezes?


I have exactly the same problem.

I installed Ubuntu a few days ago but already I am considering to change it.

Do you think an older version is more stable?

---

### Post by johnwillis on 2009-04-30
> **reymon said:**
> I have exactly the same problem.

I installed Ubuntu a few days ago but already I am considering to change it.

Do you think an older version is more stable?

The 8.04 Hardy release will be more stable... it's what it was designed for... the 6 monthly releases are designed to give you more cutting edge features...

If you want stability then use Hardy 8.04

If you want a clean install then try Debian. It's got all the same software available near enough in the repo's as it's exactly what the Ubuntu repos are based on...

-J

---

### Post by reymon on 2009-04-30
Thank you johnwillis.

I am already in total love with Ubuntu and I was already agonizing by the thougt that I must go back to windows.

I will try first Hardy and if I still have problems - Debian.

Best


> **johnwillis said:**
> The 8.04 Hardy release will be more stable... it's what it was designed for... the 6 monthly releases are designed to give you more cutting edge features...

If you want stability then use Hardy 8.04

If you want a clean install then try Debian. It's got all the same software available near enough in the repo's as it's exactly what the Ubuntu repos are based on...

-J

---

### Post by vaxius on 2009-04-30
I have this same thing happening. Everything freezes, so the logs don't show me anything. I'm running this on an Acer Aspire One ZG5. Could this have anything to do with Intel video drivers? I noticed this random freezing more often after having updated that package. I will try going back to the older driver and see if that improves thing (regression?).

---

### Post by vaxius on 2009-05-01
Since reverting back from the Intel driver I got from a ppa repo, I haven't experienced any more freezing problems. This may not be the same problem as the OP's, but if anyone reading this has updated the video driver on their netbook is experiencing this problem, just go back to the driver included in the default repositories.

---

### Post by pi.boy.travis on 2009-05-01
LOTS of people are having this problem, especially with Intel GMA graphics cards.

I have been following the bug report, and a fox for Jaunty has been committed.  Everyone should get it in a update soon.

---

### Post by rpwdh on 2009-05-01
Today I installed Hardy from the CD, upgraded to Ibex and then upgraded to Jaunty.

Everything went smoothly and I haven't had a crash.

---

