---
title: "cd/dvd drive not working!"
date: 2009-06-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by C4BL3 on 2009-06-16
Legit ubuntu beginner here.

I've just installed Jaunty on my Dell E1405 and have gotten everything to work, except for my cd/dvd drive. 

As far as I know the drive is in good shape and i've inserted a variety of disks but no luck.

Any help is much appreciated!

---

### Post by swisstone198 on 2009-06-16
run 

$ cat /proc/scsi/scsi

do you see your cd/dvd drive?

run

$ dvd+rw-mediainfo /dev/dvd

does this see the drive?

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2009-06-16
How did you install Ubuntu ?

---

### Post by zeroseven0183 on 2009-06-16
On a freshly installed Ubuntu, if I can still recall it correctly, any CD inserted on the drive will automatically add an icon to the desktop.

And yeah, how did you install Ubuntu? If it's from the CD then it's working. The only issue I think is how the CDs is recognized. How about opening Nautilus (or Places) to see the drive?

---

### Post by C4BL3 on 2009-06-16
Hey swiss - i tried both commands and they worked.  i can see the drive, and the configuration says "no media mounted"

and I installed ubuntu via my flashdrive

---

### Post by C4BL3 on 2009-06-16
oh, and hey i can see the drive in in the file browser!

...but it keeps saying "unable to mount location: no media in the drive'

---

### Post by alket on 2009-06-16
im not expert but did you try another cd ?

---

### Post by C4BL3 on 2009-06-16
yeah... i tried a bunch, and i'm beginning to wonder about the drive, but it was working fine before i installed Ubuntu

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2009-06-16
Is CD drive being recongize in BIOS and at very initial boot up ?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-06-16
If you installed from a usb flash drive then ck. your fstab and make sure it's not set as a cdrom drive. (in other words the usb drive may have gotten the /media/cdrom0 mount point.

```
cat /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by C4BL3 on 2009-06-17
Thanks Mac - here's what I got checkin the fstab:


cable@Gift:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'vol_id --uuid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=7baa7574-2a51-478f-b7a8-9129e2da32da /               ext4    relatime,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /home was on /dev/sda4 during installation
UUID=4b7082ec-96a1-4b01-9a4d-a9cd0924fa69 /home           ext4    relatime        0       2
# /usr was on /dev/sda3 during installation
UUID=4cb98935-984c-46b7-97e1-23eb37ab5637 /usr            ext4    relatime        0       2
# swap was on /dev/sda2 during installation
UUID=49aa0ada-6aaa-4faa-85dd-912f6d11fe13 none            swap    sw              0       0

---

### Post by swisstone198 on 2009-06-17
What command are you using to mount (or is it doing it auto)?

try command (if you have not already)

$ mount -t iso9660 -o ro /dev/cdrom /mnt

or

$ mount -t iso9660 -o ro /dev/dvd /mnt


If you still get error what does /var/log/messages say?

---

### Post by C4BL3 on 2009-06-17
Well, i've tried both commands, and I keep getting the message "no medium found on /dev/sr0"
Does that mean it's just not reading the disc?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-06-18
I don't have jaunty so just an observation.

That is the oddest fstab I've ever seen and there is no dvd/cdrom drive(s) listed. (/dev/scd0, /dev/scd1
Maybe jaunty does things differently but **you need someone with jaunty to advise**

I don't get this at all
> # / was on /dev/sda1 during installation, ect. ect.

My fstab in 8.04 (**don't copy**, just example of layout, cdrom drives in blue

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb3 :
UUID=622a0b49-e4a4-41bb-b871-1d1291b46905 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=0fb7ecba-03cb-4381-89ca-eaeccc362fb8 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/sdb8 /media/music vfat iocharset=utf8,umask=000 0 0
[COLOR="Blue"]/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0[/COLOR]
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/TO\040SEE ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0


---

### Post by C4BL3 on 2009-06-21
Well, I'm afraid I've tried all I can think and the drive still doesn't mount due to a "no media in the drive" error. Perhaps it's just the hardware/cd sensor?

---

