---
title: ".desktop files"
date: 2013-12-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Andrew_Lucas on 2013-12-23
Hi all,

I'm trying to create a .desktop file to run Minecraft. The exec line works, but for some reason, using an absolute path for the icon no longer works in 13.10 (it used to in previous releases).

Consequently, I need to know where a .desktop file 'looks' for its icon (i.e. what it does if no absolute path is specified). My current way of creating a .desktop is to cp skype.desktop over, edit for minecraft, then mv back into /usr/share/applications. By default, Skype just specifies:

```
Icon=skype.png
```

In my created minecraft.desktop file, it reads:

```
Icon='/home/user/.minecraft/favicon.png'
``` (I got my favicon.png from extracting the .jar, opening the folder and copying it over).

Currently, I've gone an unappealing grey box. :(

Help appreciated!

EDIT: I found this via Google (see [here]("http://linuxcritic.wordpress.com/2010/04/07/anatomy-of-a-desktop-file/")):

>  Icon &#8211; specifies the icon  to be used.  This entry supports both icons supported under the  FreeDesktop Icon Theme Specification (which I haven&#8217;t yet fully grokked)  as well as absolute paths. 


This doesn't seem to be true? Am I making some really dopey mistake?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-12-23
I hope the line **Icon='/home/[COLOR=#ff0000]user[/COLOR]/.minecraft/favicon.png'** is not actually what you typed in the .desktop file?  You need to use your real username, not the word user.

Apologies if you know this already, but I thought it worth mentioning.

---

### Post by Andrew_Lucas on 2013-12-23
> **Andrew_Lucas said:**
> 

```
Icon='/home/user/.minecraft/favicon.png'
``` 

> **ajgreeny said:**
> I hope the line **Icon='/home/[COLOR=#ff0000]user[/COLOR]/.minecraft/favicon.png'** is not actually what you typed in the .desktop file?  You need to use your real username, not the word user.

Apologies if you know this already, but I thought it worth mentioning.

Yeah of course. :P Just felt a bit weird about posting the username of my little sister.

---

### Post by Andrew_Lucas on 2013-12-23
Found my sound solution. For *some* reason, 'path' or "path" breaks it, whereas path alone is fine.

Anyone think this is worth filing a bug report over?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-12-24
Hm!  Interesting.

I admit I did not notice the 'path' quote marks, apostrophes, backticks, or whatever they were in your file, but it would be interesting to see what happens if you used double quote marks instead, ie "path" rather than 'path'.

I shall try it now and report back.

OK, I have just tried that out. No, it will not work with double quotes either.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2013-12-24
@Andrew, this thread is marked "Solved". Maybe you can reverse that if you still don't have a solution?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2013-12-24
> **vasa1 said:**
> @Andrew, this thread is marked "Solved". Maybe you can reverse that if you still don't have a solution?

He has a solution: remove the quotations around the path.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2013-12-24
And looking at .desktop files in /usr/share/applications, the line for icons doesn't have any quotes or backticks:
Icon=/usr/share/xombrero/xombreroicon64.png
Icon=transmission
Icon=google-chrome

Also see table 2 here: [http://standards.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/desktop-entry-spec-latest.html](http://standards.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/desktop-entry-spec-latest.html)

I'm interested in an answer as well because I want Leafpad to have a unique icon like Geany and Medit have.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2013-12-24
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> He has a solution: remove the quotations around the path.

Makes sense. They weren't needed.

---

