---
title: "11.04 Upgrade A Disaster - 10.10 &amp; Unity Gone, No LiveCD"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-04-29
Hi all,

My upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04 has been a bit messy. 

1. After upgrade the default boot up procedure took me to Purple Screen of Death where boot-up just hung at the Ubuntu Logo
2. I had to get into Ubuntu by choosing 'Previous Version'. 
3. Once in it appeared Natty had installed but the 'Install UPGRADE' appeared, seeming to suggest that there was a new OS to install. I tried this but it wouldn't go any further as it couldn't unmount a drive.

```

The installer has detected that the following  disks have mounted partitions:
/dev/sda
Do you want the installer to try to unmount the partitions...

```

I click 'no' and then 'Install alongside my Windows 7 install'. It then says 

```

The installer needs to commit changes to partition tables, but cannot do so because partitions on the following mount points could not be unmounted:
/
Please close any applications using these mount points.
Would you like the installer to try to unmount these partitions again?

```

At which point I got scared and clicked 'Go Back' instead of 'Continue'. Nothing happens, it just hangs.

[Here is a link]("http://www.followtheboat.com/images/screenshot.png") to a screenshot of my Gparted view of my hard drive.

4. In Natty video in VLC and Movie Player was choppy and crashed and audio players like Banshee and RhythmBox refused to load. I read into this and one solution was to install Gnome 3. Since I was interested in using this as an alternative to Unity I installed it. 
5. I have now lost Unity.
6. I cannot select Unity or Classic environments at boot-up, I can only load Gnome 3.
7. I made a LiveCD on a USB stick and it refuses to load, even though the boot order has changed to accomodate the USB stick. It comes up with this error:

```

Busybox v1.17.1 (Ubuntu 1:1.17.1-10Ubuntu1) built-in Shell (ash)
(initramfs) can not mount /dev/loop1 on/cow

```

I have no idea what this means and it simply will not allow me to run the LiveCD.

8. Since trying the LiveCD option now when I boot up it automatically goes to the Ubuntu log-in screen, so that's something, but I still can't select which environment to use and I still can't boot up from my LiveCD.

I'm just an end-user who loves Ubuntu but I don't know enough to get me out of this frustrating situation. Any clues or suggestions?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-04-29
How does the machine work with a 10.10 live boot?

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-04-29
Same problem. I get that ...

```

(initramfs) can not mount /dev/loop1 on/cow

```

...message. This is turning into a right royal disaster. Any other suggestions? How do I roll back the install?

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-04-29
I decided to burn the 10.10 image to CD rather than USB, and I was able to boot from the CD. I didn't install 10.10 though.

I tried the same with 11.04 but unfortunately I get the same problem as when I try and boot normally - purple screen of death with nothing happening.

Although I upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04 the image for 11.04 is a complete download, so I'm pretty certain that is not corrupt.

What should I do? Any suggestions? Is there a way I can repair my 11.04 install? I've tried sudo apt-get update and install but it says there are no updates to add. I have also tried 
sudo apt-get install --fix-brokenwith no luck.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-04-29
There is no roll-back option (and if there were it would be even more dangerous than an online upgrade). 

The solution is a fresh install of 10.10 or 11.04. 

How did you create the USB stick?

---

### Post by trekkie1701c on 2011-04-29
Getting a similar issue myself on my virtual copy of Ubuntu.  Goes just to the purple boot screen and quickly stops any hard drive activity.  Trying to switch terminals does not work - however sending it a shutdown signal will cause it to power down on it's own, without having to kill it.  On one shutdown it did briefly show the boot messages that are output, and I didn't see any errors.

I did allow the update to run overnight so it sat idle for a few hours, which actually is making me wonder something:  If the update process sits idle for several hours can that break the system?  I used Ubuntu a few years ago, and, same as now I don't really have the time to sit around and wait for it to finish, and the most convenient way is for me to let it run while I'm sleeping, which is also how I'd try upgrades in the past... with all of them breaking in this same way (I'm not exaggerating, it was seriously all of them.  I started the habit of moving my home directory to a separate partition because of it).  Now, if it's not that it's sitting idle for too long... then really don't know what's going on.  On one hand, I can't really believe that Ubuntu would be all that popular if it broke everyone's computers every time the OS got updated.  On the other hand, I don't do anything special when I do the upgrade; I use the update manager and just click through it, and as far as I know it doesn't generate any errors (it'll usually be sitting when I wake up asking if I want to remove some old packages, which I of course do).  So... what am I doing wrong here?  :P

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-04-29
I created the stick with Startup Disk Creator but, like I said, I had more luck with the CD.

If I manage to do a fresh install of 11.04, and bear in mind it is hanging when I attempt it, is there an easy way of maintaining all my current settings? I was using 10.10 and now have a broken 11.04, but I still have all my documents and settings from before.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-04-29
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857)

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-04-29
Hello again,

My issue is that my 11.04 LiveCD is not being recognised so I am now creating another USB LiveCD using UNetbootin for 11.04. I will get back to you.

Another oddity, I am now back to the purple screen of death and have to go to 'Previous Version' at grub in order to log in. When I did this the old 'Ubuntu 10.10' splash screen appeared before allowing me to log in to Natty. This is the first time I have seen the 10.10 splash screen (why should it suddenly appear?) yet I still logged in to Natty.

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-04-29
Back again. That did not work. So that means I have tried 3 times to install a new version of 11.04, using two different downloads, and in three different ways: via burning the .iso to CD, by Unetbootin to USB and by StartupDisk Creator to USB.

In all instances I get the purple screen of death where the Ubuntu logo appears, the dots underneath cycle a few times and then it just hangs. The hard drive light stops and I'm stuck with the logo. I've left it for about ten minutes and it does nothing.

I'm confused as to why I could upgrade but can't run a clean install. Where does this leave me?

[Edit] I should add that I have successfully used the same USB stick to install 11.04 for an old Acer I've got lying around.

I'm wondering if this has anything to do with the fact I have used all four primary partitions up already? I don't see why this should make any difference as surely Gparted would deal with that once the install disk made its way to the installation stage?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-04-29
That could be the reason. If you want to test it, run Gparted from a live boot and delete the Ubuntu partitions.

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-04-29
I tried that, to no avail.

```
[SIZE=1]Can not mount /dev/loop1 on /cow[/SIZE]

```This *was *a known bug, which was reported (and fixed) here:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/492301](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/492301)

The very last comment in this thread suggests that the same bug returned in the dailies of Natty, so I guess I should report that it is back in the official release (there appears to be a delay in setting up Launchpad account in order for me to report the problem).

The original work-around concerned how the USB stick was created, either persistence-enabled or not. This, however, does not solve the problem for me as I have tried both methods.

I am now trying UNetbootin in Windows 7, and downloading the live version from the drop-down list instead of installing the .iso I downloaded earlier. Apparently this worked for some people but forgive me my continuing frustration: I'm having to do all this on a GPRS connection.

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-04-30
I had no luck with the installation, having spent the last 36 hours searching and trying for a solution.

In the end I reformatted the part of my hard drive that wasn't Windows 7, reinstalled 10.10 and then ***upgraded*** to 11.04 without doing anything to 10.10 except running update manager. I tried many times to do a clean install and got nowhere, always ending up at the purple screen of death.

The good news is that it seems to have taken, and I'm enjoying Unity. There are a few little niggles that I suspect are due to the new environment (as opposed to a dodgy install). Sorry I couldn't find a resolution to the problem in hand though.

---

### Post by vk1ac on 2011-05-04
Yep, Same problem on my upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04.  The Purple Screen of Death..  It's a dual boot system with Windows Vista.  

Now, if I select the Recovery boot in Grub, when it cycles back through to the grub options screen menu, I select boot with File System Check and after it does the disk check.. it boots normally.. 

Bizarre... Something must have gotten woken up.

Aside from this boot workaround, the installation remains broken.

---

