---
title: ".bash_history editing"
date: 2012-09-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by hypnot0ad on 2012-09-14
Hello. 

I am pretty new to Linux and any *buntu, but I have been wondering for sometime how to edit my command line history. I've spent some time looking for this answer but really found one line that go me close to my desired results.

```
history -d n
```

Where 'n' is the number in the history line where you wish to start deleting. But it would leave me with left over commands that I can't get rid of. Not because I don't want others to see them (although in the future this may be necessary) but for the fact that there are left over commands means it is not really editing.

I came across in a book I have. ISBN9780470082935

```
fc -e /usr/bin/nano/n
```

Where 'n' is again the three digit command that you wish to enter.

So I ran both in the order I've shown them here. While doing the fc command I set the first seven commands to some I use a lot so I could test that after saving the .bash_history file, the changes I made would be there after reboot. To my excitement the changes indeed were there.. But as before still had whatever commands where in those placeholders - even though I deleted the whole file and left only the seven I entered.


Am I doing this wrong, or missing something?
How do *you* edit your history? If you do at all.

Thank you in advanced for your time.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2012-09-14
I think that you misread that book.

> fc: fc [-e ename] [-lnr] [first] [last] or fc -s [pat=rep] [command]
    Display or execute commands from the history list.

    fc is used to list or edit and re-execute commands from the history list.
    FIRST and LAST can be numbers specifying the range, or FIRST can be a
    string, which means the most recent command beginning with that
    string.

    Options:
      -e ENAME  select which editor to use.  Default is FCEDIT, then EDITOR,
                then vi
      -l        list lines instead of editing
      -n        omit line numbers when listing
      -r        reverse the order of the lines (newest listed first)

    With the `fc -s [pat=rep ...] [command]' format, COMMAND is
    re-executed after the substitution OLD=NEW is performed.

    A useful alias to use with this is r='fc -s', so that typing `r cc'
    runs the last command beginning with `cc' and typing `r' re-executes
    the last command.

    Exit Status:
    Returns success or status of executed command; non-zero if an error occurs.


---

### Post by hypnot0ad on 2012-09-14
That is one of three lines the book talks about fc.

[This]("http://theory.uwinnipeg.ca/localfiles/infofiles/bash/bashref_73.html") has something more helpful that I found just now.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2012-09-14
> **hypnot0ad said:**
> I am pretty new to Linux and any *buntu, but I have been wondering for sometime how to edit my command line history.
Actually you're making it much more complicated than it needs to be. The history is kept in a hidden text file in your home directory (~ or $HOME) and you can edit it with your favorite text editor. The file's name is ".bash_history" and that leading dot is what makes it hidden.

I've created a panel launcher for my use, that simply launches my text editor on the .bash_history file. This lets me clean out mis-spelled commands and things which didn't work but got saved automatically in history.

if you want to edit from the command line, use ```
nano .bash_history
```The file is owned by you and you have full read-write permission.

Hope this helps!

---

### Post by hypnot0ad on 2012-09-15
> **JKyleOKC said:**
> Actually you're making it much more complicated than it needs to be. The history is kept in a hidden text file in your home directory (~ or $HOME) and you can edit it with your favorite text editor. The file's name is ".bash_history" and that leading dot is what makes it hidden.

I've created a panel launcher for my use, that simply launches my text editor on the .bash_history file. This lets me clean out mis-spelled commands and things which didn't work but got saved automatically in history.

if you want to edit from the command line, use ```
nano .bash_history
```The file is owned by you and you have full read-write permission.

Hope this helps!

I don't fully understand. 

```
nano .bash_history
```
was the first thing I tried when I started looking this subject up.
I did the above code in the terminal, took out everything I didn't want saved, and reboot. But once I did history again upon reboot it was like nothing had happened to the file. However this time it worked. Thank you, sir.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2012-09-15
It's possible that you had automatic session saving in effect that first time, which in effect is somewhat similar to hibernation and might have restored the previous session's history so that when you re-booted, the edited history that was loaded from .bash_history got replaced by that kept in the saved session. I don't know for sure that this is what happened, but it's possible.

The history is kept in RAM until you log out, and is written out to .bash_history at that time. When you next log in, the RAM copy is loaded from .bash_history and the file isn't accessed again unless you force it through some command. This all happens behind the scenes, but while you are logged in, the history of the current session exists only in RAM, not in the file. This is to keep the history from slowing things down by having to write to the disk after every command.

If you want to prevent anything from a session from being kept when you log out, you can use a simple "compound command" to do so. It's "history -c;exit" and the "-c" option empties the RAM copy while the "exit" command ends the terminal session. The commands must be on the same line separated by the semicolon, to prevent the "exit" command itself from being written to the file.

I've created an alias for this, to make it easier to use, and use it several times a day when trying out things in a terminal when I expect (and have kept in history) lots of mistakes. The command I used was ```
alias zz='history -c;exit'
```in my .bashrc file; I chose "zz" for the name because I know of no command by that name and it's easy to type...

---

### Post by hypnot0ad on 2012-09-19
> **JKyleOKC said:**
> It's possible that you had automatic session saving in effect that first time, which in effect is somewhat similar to hibernation and might have restored the previous session's history so that when you re-booted, the edited history that was loaded from .bash_history got replaced by that kept in the saved session. I don't know for sure that this is what happened, but it's possible.

The history is kept in RAM until you log out, and is written out to .bash_history at that time. When you next log in, the RAM copy is loaded from .bash_history and the file isn't accessed again unless you force it through some command. This all happens behind the scenes, but while you are logged in, the history of the current session exists only in RAM, not in the file. This is to keep the history from slowing things down by having to write to the disk after every command.

If you want to prevent anything from a session from being kept when you log out, you can use a simple "compound command" to do so. It's "history -c;exit" and the "-c" option empties the RAM copy while the "exit" command ends the terminal session. The commands must be on the same line separated by the semicolon, to prevent the "exit" command itself from being written to the file.

I've created an alias for this, to make it easier to use, and use it several times a day when trying out things in a terminal when I expect (and have kept in history) lots of mistakes. The command I used was ```
alias zz='history -c;exit'
```in my .bashrc file; I chose "zz" for the name because I know of no command by that name and it's easy to type...

Thank you for your help and time.

I am not sure how the automatic session would have been enabled. But as you say it (the reason it happened) could be anything.

I haven't been brave enough to venture into aliases yet however, what you posted looks to be very helpful and I appreciate it. Thanks a bunch!

---

