---
title: "11.04 trapped at login screen, need some help please."
date: 2011-05-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Mike1313 on 2011-05-04
Hi everybody, I screwed up and need some help.

I upgraded my wife's laptop to 11.04 and she absolutely hated it - not getting an points for Unity's layout at all... so I tried to get rid of it by unclicking the 'unity' option using compiz settings manager. This turned out to be very bad as suddenly all I had was a blank desktop, no toolbars or any way to get anything to work. I followed some internet instructions and restarted gdm from terminal but it will not let me log in. If I click her user name the field it is in blinks and nothing happens.

Let me be clear, there are NO OTHER BUTTONS OR MENUS that I can access.
NOTHING else is showing up on screen other than the little dialog window and the power button in the corner giving me an option to restart or shutdown. And yes, I've done both hoping for something different to happen plenty of times new.

If I click on her user name extremely rapidly over and over againI can see a bit of a flash beneath the login window that appears to have some sort of drop down menu... but whatever bug is happening will not let me access this to see what it is.

Is there a way to set it up from terminal that her user name doesn't need a password to log in at boot? I'm hoping that if I can get the computer to automatically bypass this login window I will be able to puzzle out what to try to fix whatever is wrong next.

I'm lost. I need help please.

Thank you,

Mike.

---

### Post by Mike1313 on 2011-05-04
Quick update...

I can log into terminal as root from grub, if i restart gdm from here the same thing keeps happening and I'm stuck again.

ARGH!

---

### Post by tomszyszko on 2011-05-04
On logon screen , click on menu at bottom where it say ubuntu and select ubuntu classic, will boot into the old version of gnome, no need to do anything else 

Hope this helps

---

### Post by Mike1313 on 2011-05-04
Newer update!

If I hit the button over her user icon even faster and for a longer duration, I can just barely make out that what I took to be drop down menu is actually an error message stating something like the following;

"error initiating conversation with authentication system - general failure..."

That's all I can get, and I've really got to be hammering on the keys fast to see it flash long enough to eventually read.

Please tell me that there is some way I can use the terminal or a live disk to do something, a clean reinstall just isn't an option as she has at least four years worth of photographs on this drive.

Thank you yet again,

Mike.

---

### Post by tomszyszko on 2011-05-04
as a last resort i guess u could remove gdm and reinstall it using apt-get?

---

### Post by tomszyszko on 2011-05-04
or try unity --reset . That should reenable unity

---

### Post by Mike1313 on 2011-05-04
> **tomszyszko said:**
> On logon screen , click on menu at bottom where it say ubuntu and select ubuntu classic, will boot into the old version of gnome, no need to do anything else 

Hope this helps

Hi, and thanks for the reply.

Unfortunately there is no such menu available, there is some glitch... it does not exist.

---

### Post by Mike1313 on 2011-05-04
> **tomszyszko said:**
> as a last resort i guess u could remove gdm and reinstall it using apt-get?

I am trying this now. I'll let you know what happens.

---

### Post by jalirious on 2011-05-04
Hola Mike, bad one. I know it's unhelpful to mention now, but having a separate /home partition means you can **** up and just reinstall the OS on the /root partition - also upgrade with fresh installs while keeping your data untouched on the /home partition. 

I seem to be in the same boat as you - ran a 'partial upgrade' (the phrase now gives shivers) and I'm stuck at the login screen, which is a low res clunky blue. I click to login my account, automatic login or other - it flashes with no action taken. 

Looks like a fresh install - which is **** as I had spent some time setting 11.04 as I wanted it.

As for your dilemma - boot a live disc and use it to copy your wife's data to an external hd, then fresh install is all I've got.

---

### Post by Mike1313 on 2011-05-04
> **tomszyszko said:**
> or try unity --reset . That should reenable unity

I tried this command, it says it's already the latest version.
Thanks, though... all help is appreciated.

---

### Post by Mike1313 on 2011-05-04
Hi Jalirious,

Sigh... I was afraid of that.
Time to sit through another fifteen+ hours of backing up again.

(no external HD, all I've got is the main computer to use which means it's all going to take a nice long detour around the network first)

GRUMBLEGRUMPGRUMBLGGRUNNGHHGRUMBLEGRUMBLEGRUMM..

---

### Post by Mike1313 on 2011-05-04
Ok, as of now I am backing up and then just reverting her to 10.10 instead.

Thanks for the help everyone, though it didn't sort things out it was nevertheless greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by sewbiz on 2011-05-26
I made the mistake of installing 11.04 as well, and finding out too late that I didn't have enough hardware on my computer for Unity. Uninstalling some of the apps and programs for Unity helped. I can still use my Ubuntu-Classic but lost my menu bar/title bars. It seems they auto hide by default with 11.04. 

You have to really love problem solving to be a Linux user, but hang in there Mike1313, reading your thread helps me when I know I am facing a "LATE NIGHT" up with my own dilemma. But what FUN when the answer finally comes!

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-26
[Switch to Gnome]("http://www.isnull.com.ar/2011/05/solved-ubuntu-1104-remove-unity-but-use.html")
[Remove Unity]("http://linux-software-news-tutorials.blogspot.com/2011/05/how-to-remove-unity-in-ubuntu-1104.html")

---

