---
title: "8.04 Wired Connection"
date: 2009-12-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by McDarling on 2009-12-25
Okay, so I got an Acer Aspire One D250 for Christmas, and I'm working on setting it up with Xubuntu 8.04. I used [this page]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne/Ubuntu8.04"), and got everything installed using Unetbootin and a USB drive. I left the XP partition, but shrank it down to 8 GB. That page seems to imply that wired internet should work OOTB, but that's not the case for me. The computer is not detecting any internet devices when I hook it up. I checked to make sure that the ethernet connection I was using was okay on another computer, and it's all good. Is this a driver issue? What can I do?

---

### Post by sanderj on 2009-12-25
Why do you use 1.5+ year old 8.04, and not 9.10?

---

### Post by Jonwenger on 2009-12-25
After you connected it to the wired internet connection, did you use: ```
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2009-12-25
On a new Xubuntu installation be sure to:

Right-click on the network icon on the top panel and be sure the 'enable networking' box is checked.

---

### Post by egalvan on 2009-12-25
> **sanderj said:**
> Why do you use 1.5+ year old 8.04, and not 9.10?

8.04 Hardy Heron is a Long Term Support version.

Supported for THREE YEARS on the desktop

Supported for FIVE YEARS on the Server.


Stability/Security is key for LTS releases.


Which is why many of us use Hardy. :)

---

### Post by McDarling on 2009-12-25
I'm not using 9.10 because it seemed much more difficult to install from USB. 8.04 seemed to be the easiest OOTB. I may try using a newer version, but this should be working . . .

I can't connect to the internet, so I can't update or upgrade. Sorry if that wasn't clear. I'm currently on another computer

The Enable Networking box is indeed checked.

Thanks, guys.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-12-25
> **McDarling said:**
> I used [this page]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne/Ubuntu8.04"),

If you click on the AOD250 (I believe that is your model) link on that page, and then click on "Enabling wired network", you get this:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOneAOD250?action=show&redirect=AspireOne%2FAOD250#Enabling%20wired%20network](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOneAOD250?action=show&redirect=AspireOne%2FAOD250#Enabling%20wired%20network)

> Ethernet card also doesn't work out of the box for D250 Which is interesting. Ethernet driver issues are as rare as hen's teeth. There are instructions there to install the driver, but another thought for you. There's a comment about a later kernel fixing the ethernet issue. I don't know about 9.10 being more difficult to install from USB - where did you get that from? But if you can run 9.10 live from a bootable USB device, check out the ethernet connection. If it works, consider replacing Hardy with 9.10/Karmic.

---

### Post by McDarling on 2009-12-25
I can't find the AR81 driver online; all of the links to the download page seem to be broken. So I'm going to go ahead and try doing a 9.10 install.

---

### Post by McDarling on 2009-12-25
Okay, I upgraded to 9.10, and everything is working great. Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by peace.gangsta on 2009-12-27
I am also facing some weird problems with my internet broadband connection at home  
 I have to go through a series of steps after startup:
First I have to disable the connection then i  re-enable it then I "connect to pppoe via modem" only then the net starts working..!!
Any suggestions....

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-12-27
> **peace.gangsta said:**
> 
Any suggestions....

Yes - and I mean this kindly - start your own support thread. Your problem is different from the OP's and this thread is now marked as solved which means that most people won't look at it.

When you start your own thread, be sure to provide details of your modem, type of broadband connection, how you are connecting your computer to the modem (router?) and the version of Ubuntu you are using.

---

