---
title: "system crashing and running slowly"
date: 2012-12-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by zirgut on 2012-12-12
Hi,
I really need some help here. I am on ubuntu 12.04.1 LTS working with a Dell 051, Intel Pentium (R) D CPU 2.80GHz x2
OS type32 bit
Disk 62.6GB.
Here is the history. Everything going well and then for no obvious reason the sound went. I went on trouble shooting sound problems through the forum and reinstalled the Nvidia driver. After that it started running slower and then a few days later started experiencing problems with the system crashing. When this happens the mouse still moves but nothing else responds.
Also while I am here on Firefox whenever I start up there is always this message about "well this is embarrassing" The home page does not come up. This may be when I have closed the computer down with more than one web page open. Any thought help and suggestions as always are very welcome. Thanks
ps I am up to date on the updates

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-12-12
> **zirgut said:**
>  "well this is embarrassing" ...This may be when I have closed the computer down with more than one web page open. ...

Yes, it is. This message is generated by firefox when it is not shut down cleanly. It remembers, and tries to re-instate the interrupted session. The message is not directly related to your problem as such.

As far as your problem goes, I would look at the SMART data from the hard drive, and run memtest.

If you go to the hard-drive administration application (my system is set to German, so I don't know exactly what it is called on the English desktop...) there is a button towards the right of the window that lets you look at the SMART data from the drive.

Memtest is in the grub menu, or can be run from the menu of the Ubuntu CD or USB stick that you installed from. Memtest checks your RAM. It needs to run for quite a while. Overnight is not a bad idea. It should turn up zero errors.

Just to cover all bases, is it possible that your machine is just getting too hot? Is it an older laptop (or desktop, for that matter...) that may need opening up and having the dust removed?

---

### Post by zirgut on 2012-12-13
Thanks for that Michael. Not quite sure I understand what to do as not been able to find the hard drive administration or access the Smart data. But I did clean out the computer of dust and junk quite recently so don't think that is the problem.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-12-13
> **zirgut said:**
> ... hard drive administration...

Type "hard drive" in the search box in the dash. It should show up. Once it is open, if you look at everything in the window, you should see the button for the smart data. It is clearly labelled. Towards the right of the window.

---

### Post by zirgut on 2012-12-16
Hi I finally did a memtest. I spotted it on the start up page.That might be the grub menu.  Came back with no errors anyway so still at a loss. Further suggestions ? Thanks for your time.
Adrian

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-12-16
If all hardware works fine I would begin with a fresh install of Lubuntu. Ubuntu is too heavy for this computer.

To begin with, stick to the open-source drivers.

---

### Post by zirgut on 2012-12-19
exactly right! I just happened on Ubuntu without consideration for anything else. In fact never heard of Lubuntu before. Will investigate. Thanks

---

