---
title: "???"
date: 2010-07-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sagmate on 2010-07-19
Does anyone know what foobar means??

---

### Post by amauk on 2010-07-19
Depends on the context

it's often used in programming as a generic variable name

foo = 1
bar = 2
baz = 3
foobar = 4
foobaz = 5

---

### Post by da burger on 2010-07-19
Say when we describe how to install a package. I would tell you to use the command ```
sudo apt-get install foobar
```Clearly you don't use that actual command but you replace "foobar" with the name of an appropriate package.
It's just a word to use when hundreds of words would work but we need one for an example.

---

### Post by Linux000 on 2010-07-19
Think of it as a wildcard, mainly because thats what it is.

---

### Post by marshmallow1304 on 2010-07-19
It's a placeholder, usually for variables.

[Wikipedia]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foobar") has more than you probably wanted to know.

---

### Post by MattBD on 2010-07-19
Originally it stood for "f***ed up beyond all recognition" and was spelled FUBAR. In the context of programming foo and bar are normally used as example names for variables in documentation (although in the case of Python, being named after Monty Python, generally the documentation refers to spam and eggs instead of foo and bar).

Basically, it's just a programming convention, like Hello World.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2010-07-19
FUBAR also means Failed UniBus Address Register on old DEC equipment

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-07-19
in the programming sense, foo and bar were just wigets build and sold by CompanyX. I don't tend to use them, as I use fubar to express so rather harsh opinions.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-07-19
foobar = x

Unknown, could be anything.

---

### Post by pricetech on 2010-07-19
Rooted in military acronyms, just like SNAFU.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-07-20
I may be remembering things incorrectly from a long ago hazy past, but I thought the term came to pass in 2 places for which we seem to recognize it in computer circles.  First, I think that back in the day of K & R working "b" to the language "c" foundation, this term was used a lot, and I think at least the "bar" portion was in some reference for Dan.  Second, going back to early Unix, you find the term much in the same context.

But....I was a much younger man in those days, and while involved in the tech end of computers in those days (very early 70's - haven't worked since '94), I was also a member of a generation for which things were a little "hazy" in the late 60's and into the 70's.  Thereby sometimes my memory is a little "clouded".

Dave ;)

---

