---
title: "10.04: Upgrade to Wider Version?"
date: 2013-01-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by von Corax on 2013-01-27
A couple of weeks ago, I installed Lucid Lynx LTS on a portable HD attached to a borrowed 8-core(!) laptop. With what may have been an excess of caution, (and because I really didn't know what I was doing,) I used the i386 .iso. I'm now wondering whether I should have used the AMD64 version (the machine is Intel Core i7), and if there's an easier way to upgrade my installation to 64-bit than simply wiping everything?

Thanks,
von Corax

---

### Post by mcduck on 2013-01-27
The 64-bit version would allow you to use more then 4GB of RAM, and also gives a nice performance boost on certain types of tasks (any audio/video/image encoding and processing, 3d- rendering and similar things are the most common applications that benefit from 64-bit computing).

...on the other hand, if you have less than 4GB of RAM, and don't work with that kind of things, then using the 32-bit version would be just fine.

Anyway, 10.04 only has a few of support left (until April 2013), so you might as well make a fresh install of more up-to-date version (12.04LTS or 12.10), and pick the 64-bit installer while you are at it.

You can't upgrade from 32-bit version to 64-bit version, and you can't jump over releases when upgrading (apart from LTS-to-LTS upgrade). Since you are now using so old release, and it's only a couple of weeks old install, a fresh install would probably be the easiest and most reliable option.

---

### Post by von Corax on 2013-01-27
> **mcduck said:**
> Anyway, 10.04 only has a few of support left (until April 2013), so you might as well make a fresh install of more up-to-date version (12.04LTS or 12.10), and pick the 64-bit installer while you are at it.

There are good reasons to upgrade versions, but there are also good reasons for not doing so. I want to stay with Lucid for now because I'm replicating the lab workstations at school, and they won't be upgraded until the semester is over.

Also, the course includes CUDA development, and the CUDA toolkit isn't supported on 12.x.

---

### Post by Double.J on 2013-01-27
Hi there!

Kudos on lucid, it was one of my all time favourites, and my first ubuntu LTS.

Mcduck is quite correct, upgrading from 32 to 64 bit,  although theoretically possible, would be a nightmare compared to just reinstalling.

I'd obviously recommend partitioning off /home if it isn't already to limiti the hassle of reinstalling. Additionally you could easily consider running 10.04 in a virtual machine? The host machine clearly has specs that will cover this and it partially gets you around the older packages/end of support issue?

---

### Post by MoebusNet on 2013-01-27
Keep in mind that the version of Ubuntu you run from the external HDD must be compatible with the system you are running it on. The 32-bit version will run on either 32-bit or 64-bit systems; however the 64-bit version will not run on a system capable of only 32-bit.

Also be aware that Ubuntu 12.10 and newer versions have been/will be optimized for newer hardware and have dropped support for some older hardware (Penitum-M processors, for example). This will affect which system(s) you can run on from your external HDD.

---

### Post by frank604 on 2013-01-27
Keep the 32bit until the school upgrades to 12.04, then you can reinstall ubuntu with the 12.04 lts release in 64 bit.

No point to reinstall now just for a few months and then reinstall again.

---

### Post by von Corax on 2013-01-27
Thanks for all the replies and ideas.

> **gnu/mirow said:**
> Hi there!
Additionally you could easily consider running 10.04 in a virtual machine? The host machine clearly has specs that will cover this and it partially gets you around the older packages/end of support issue?

That's certainly an option, but the objective is to do performance comparisons between parallel and serialized versionsof the same program, and I fear that adding a virtualization layer would fuzzify the results.

> **MoebusNet said:**
> Keep in mind that the version of Ubuntu you run from the external HDD must be compatible with the system you are running it on. The 32-bit version will run on either 32-bit or 64-bit systems; however the 64-bit version will not run on a system capable of only 32-bit.


That had just occurred to me, actually. Does anyone know if it would be possible to set up for 32/64 dual boot?

> **frank604 said:**
> Keep the 32bit until the school upgrades to 12.04, then you can reinstall ubuntu with the 12.04 lts release in 64 bit.


Except that they aren't going to do that until after the semester ends, and by then the course will be over. ;)

---

### Post by Nr90 on 2013-01-27
> **von Corax said:**
> 
That's certainly an option, but the objective is to do performance comparisons between parallel and serialized versionsof the same program, and I fear that adding a virtualization layer would fuzzify the results.


Wouldn't the different hardware already screw up that comparison anyway?

---

### Post by frank604 on 2013-01-27
To answer your question, there is no such thing as upgrading from 32bit to 64bit.  You must do a complete reinstall or simply stick with 32bit.  For school purposes, running on 32bit won't be much of a problem.  Then again we do not know which apps you are using and how intensive you need resources.  For general purposes you will be fine on 32bit.

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2013-01-27
if you're using a 64 bit processor and one or all of the following are true:

[LIST]
[*]you're using a PAE kernel
[*]you have more than 3.3GB RAM
[*]you regularly use memory intensive applications (such as video transcoding, 3D rendering, etc)
[*]you use a lot of swap space because you run out of RAM
[*]you use Virtualization technology
[/LIST]
then I would switch to a 64bit release. if not, stick to 32bit for now.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-01-27
> **von Corax said:**
>  Does anyone know if it would be possible to set up for 32/64 dual boot?

Install them on separate partitions and boot into the one you want to use. You should be using 64bit on that machine but understand why you're not. 

I would free up some space, 15Gb say, and install the 64bit there. If you have a separate /home partition it can use that and the existing /swap (although that doesn't really matter in the case of /swap as there's no vital info stored there).

Just choose 'Something Else' at the partitioning section of the install and tell it to use those partitions but make sure they are NOT ticked to format.

---

### Post by von Corax on 2013-01-27
> **Nr90 said:**
> Wouldn't the different hardware already screw up that comparison anyway?
No, because you don't compare speed between different machines; performance comparisons are only valid for the same machine. You *can* compare performance *improvements* between machines, though, and you should see roughly the same ratio of improvement on both machines.

The trouble with virtualizing is that it may not be running on the same number of physical cores as virtual cores, which introduces too many variables for accurate comparison.

HilmTye and frank604: We're studying high-performance computing using the Cilk & CilkPlus multithreading compilers, so I'll be pushing this machine as hard as it will let me. :)

---

### Post by von Corax on 2013-01-27
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Install them on separate partitions and boot into the one you want to use. You should be using 64bit on that machine but understand why you're not. 

I would free up some space, 15Gb say, and install the 64bit there. If you have a separate /home partition it can use that and the existing /swap (although that doesn't really matter in the case of /swap as there's no vital info stored there).

Just choose 'Something Else' at the partitioning section of the install and tell it to use those partitions but make sure they are NOT ticked to format.

Mr. Ball, that's good to hear.

Is it possible to repartition my drive without erasing everything? If so, could you kindly point me toward a howto?

Many thanks,
von Corax

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-01-27
Yes, it is. You can boot from a LiveCD so all partitions are unmounted, launch Gparted and away you go. 

If you have Windows installed and want to resize that partition, use the Win apps to do that and not Gparted. It can create problems on newer Win versions.

---

### Post by Sef on 2013-01-27
> Is it possible to repartition my drive without erasing everything? If so, could you kindly point me toward a howto?


Do you have free space on your hard drive? 

1) If yes, then you can either add the 64-bit or partition it without wiping out what you have already installed.

2) If no, then you will wipe out what you have on your computer.

---

### Post by von Corax on 2013-01-27
Thank you, Mr. Ball; I shall investigate in the morning and report back. (I'll leave this thread "unsolved" until then.)

As for space, it's a 1 TB drive, and Nautilus reports 853.5 GB free. :D

---

### Post by Sef on 2013-01-27
> As for space, it's a 1 TB drive, and Nautilus reports 853.5 GB free. 

Before adding the 64-bit, **back up** your what is currently on the hard drive. There are no 100% guarantees that all will go right.

---

### Post by von Corax on 2013-01-28
> **Sef said:**
> Before adding the 64-bit, **back up** your what is currently on the hard drive. There are no 100% guarantees that all will go right.
Well *that* should just go without saying. (Even though it rarely does... :P)

---

### Post by von Corax on 2013-02-12
I eventually realized that all the machines I'm likely to use this system on are 64-bit, and since I hadn't really done much with it yet (ie. few app installs, few user files) I'm in the process (as I type this) of wiping the 32-bit install and replacing it with the 64-bit version. (It just took a while to surmount the emotional hurdle of completely discarding the previous install.)

It would have been interesting to set up the 32/64 dual boot, but I have other stuff needs doing right now, so I'm just going to mark this thread solved.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-02-13
Good work. Enjoy. If your machine is capable of the 64bit install, do it. ;)

---

