---
title: "12.04 classic menus"
date: 2012-05-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2012-05-27
I am using precise classic version. I would like to move or copy  the preferences and admin menus from being treed under system to a menu right directly under applications. Does anyone know how to do this? I have tried the main menu app but haven't been able to figure this out.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-05-27
You can just drag the menu item from one place to another in the alacarte listing, or at least you can do so in Lucid 10.04, so I presume you can still do so in 12.04.

In Lucid it copies items rather than moving them, so you would need to delete the items you don't want later, if you really want to clean it up.

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2012-05-27
I want to drag the admin and prefs menus to the applications list not one item

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-05-27
> **cmcanulty said:**
> I want to drag the admin and prefs menus to the applications list not one item
Did you try dragging the whole menu group heading across?  I can do it in 10.04.

---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2012-05-27
Install Classic Menu Indicator in Ubuntu 12.04 (Precise Pangolin)

[http://www.liberiangeek.net/2012/05/install-classic-menu-indicator-in-ubuntu-12-04-precise-pangolin/](http://www.liberiangeek.net/2012/05/install-classic-menu-indicator-in-ubuntu-12-04-precise-pangolin/)

---

### Post by xXQuadPolarXx on 2012-05-27
> **rburkartjo said:**
> Install Classic Menu Indicator in Ubuntu 12.04 (Precise Pangolin)

[http://www.liberiangeek.net/2012/05/install-classic-menu-indicator-in-ubuntu-12-04-precise-pangolin/](http://www.liberiangeek.net/2012/05/install-classic-menu-indicator-in-ubuntu-12-04-precise-pangolin/)

I also wanted this for the longest time but I just tried it myself & did a restart & am still stuck with the menus from 12.04 nothing has changed...

---

### Post by dcsoldschool53 on 2012-05-28
[B]Take a look at my attachment. If this is what you mean, you will have to drag and drop it just like ajgreeny said. Grab and drag the Administration folder from the items list over to the menus list. Actually, hold it over the Applications, then let go. 
I had to do it twice before it took.
[/B]

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2012-05-28
believe me I have tried that several times but wherever I drag it , it just opens the app it landed on. I am familiar with the drag and hold as that is how I get all my apps I use frequently into my panels (no one seems to realize this works).

---

### Post by xXQuadPolarXx on 2012-05-28
> **cmcanulty said:**
> believe me I have tried that several times but wherever I drag it , it just opens the app it landed on. I am familiar with the drag and hold as that is how I get all my apps I use frequently into my panels (no one seems to realize this works).

Yeah same here nothing seams to work... It will move to the side bar but no top bar at all... I really hate the side bar! I miss the old menus

---

### Post by dcsoldschool53 on 2012-05-28
Bump

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-05-28
I have just tried this in my 12.04 on which I run the classic gnome desktop, ie gnome with panel(s) like in gnome 2, which is what I assume you are running from your description on the first post.

On my system I have added the "main menu" to the panel, and by right clicking that I can edit the menu and easily drag the Preferences and Administration headings from System to Applications, as I originally said.  You must be doing something different to that if you can not get it to do what you want.

PS:  I use classic gnome desktop without effects;  might that make a difference?

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2012-05-28
I am also using 12.04 classic no effects

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-05-28
So what are you doing differently to me?

I grab the Preferences icon from the right hand panel and drag it right onto the Applications icon in the left hand panel, that's all that is needed.  Don't try to drop the icons into empty space; put them right on top of the Applications icon.

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2012-05-29
My applications has no icon

---

### Post by dcsoldschool53 on 2012-05-29
I know what you are talking about now, and yes you are right. They are actually hidden from view on the topbar, and they do not work like the other icons do either. If you hold your mouse over that spot, you will see the name of the applications popup, and If you click on it, the list will not drop down. 
Maybe you can try to add them to a different folder, and place the whole folder there. It may work.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-05-29
I also think I see the problem, but not as dcsoldschool53 sees it.

In my first post I mentioned **alacarte**, but did not elucidate further.  You can open alacarte by right clicking on the menu in the panel, which in my case with the main menu, not the menubar, does have an icon in the panel.  Chose "Edit Menu"

Now as shown in the screenshot below, you can drag and drop any item from the right hand pane into a section-heading in the left hand pane; in the case shown I dropped Administration into Applications.

I think from your description you are attempting to drag and drop items from the open menu, not from the Edit Menu (alacarte) window.  Try it now with alacarte; it does work!

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2012-05-29
OK great that was it thank you!

---

