---
title: "Video Problem"
date: 2008-12-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bluestriker on 2008-12-23
Alright, I'm sure this has been answered many times before. However, I have also tried most of the common solutions I can find, and nothing has worked. Feel free to retry some of these.

Anyways, when I was on Ubuntu (switched to Xubuntu because my laptop isn't exactly a power house), the default resolution was 800 x 600. After a little fiddling, I got the resolution up to 1024 x 768. Even in XP it was 1024 x 768 by default. I can't seem to do this in Xubuntu, and the small amount of support offered for it doesn't exactly help.

I'm sure there are some drivers for the hardware in my laptop (It's an HP N5425 by the way), but the Hardware Driver applications can't find anything. Since I'm sure you're going to want to see my xorg.conf file, here it is:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

I had tried restarting the xserver, so that's why it's the default config file again.

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-12-23
Which graphic card does it have?  It's probably one of those intel graphic controllers.

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

### Post by bluestriker on 2008-12-23
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Trident Microsystems CyberBlade/XP (rev 63)

Yup, it's a Trident.

---

### Post by bluestriker on 2008-12-23
This is a very annoying problem, anyone have a potential solution?

---

### Post by Coder543 on 2008-12-23
perhaps... [this]("http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/ubuntu-help/125771-xubuntu-screen-resolution.html"), or [this]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-users/2007-September/000979.html")?

---

### Post by bluestriker on 2008-12-24
I had already tried the first link, the second one worked, kind of. There are now tons of options in the Display part of the Settings Manager.

This whole time I've had 800x600, there's been a black border around the outside of the screen about two inches in diameter. If I change the resolution to 1024x768, the picture shifts to the top left corner (as if expanding to fill the whole screen), but there's still a big border on the bottom and right sides. The weird thing is, my mouse shows over the borders but nothing else. Any ideas?

**EDIT**: Alright, got that working by doing a simple restart, but the login screen is still the same way pretty much.

---

### Post by eifersucht9 on 2008-12-25
> **bluestriker said:**
> I had already tried the first link, the second one worked, kind of. There are now tons of options in the Display part of the Settings Manager.

This whole time I've had 800x600, there's been a black border around the outside of the screen about two inches in diameter. If I change the resolution to 1024x768, the picture shifts to the top left corner (as if expanding to fill the whole screen), but there's still a big border on the bottom and right sides. The weird thing is, my mouse shows over the borders but nothing else. Any ideas?

**EDIT**: Alright, got that working by doing a simple restart, but the login screen is still the same way pretty much.

I have the same system and this 800X600 is driving me crazy.  Is there any way I can get a copy of your Xorg.conf???  I cant seem to find the LCD screen specs for the N5425.  Danke Für alles!:lolflag:

---

### Post by jmrains on 2009-07-11
In another thread I found the solution to this problem.  Open a Terminal session and type:

sudo displayconfig-gtk

Why this command isn't available from System - Preferences I don't know.  Anyway, this program allowed me to select "Hewlett Packard - HP 1024 LCD Flat Panel 14-inch display".  This allowed me to select 1024X768 resolution.  It defaulted to 87Hz which caused a short screen.  However 60, 70 and 75 Hz all work fine.  The only problem I had was it didn't "stick" the first time.  I had to run it several times (with reboots in-between) before it finally rebooted to 1024X768.

I hope this helps others.

---

