---
title: "[8.10] Dual monitor issues (using ATI binaries)"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by EddieRingle on 2008-11-02
Okay, just got a dual boot setup working on my desktop, and have successfully installed Ibex, without the annoying BusyBox issue.

Anyways, I have two monitors, a 15.4" 1024x768 and a 21.6" 1680x1050. Catalyst Control Center only offers Big Desktop, which sets one huge resolution for both monitors, while neither can support it. (Something like 3xxx by 1080).

It'd be appreciated if someone could help me get this working, for I'd have my first Linux desktop that is functional and looks pretty at the same time. :)

---

### Post by sateeshpnv on 2008-11-10
Did you try "xrandr --auto"? You may also want to look at [http://wiki.debian.org/XStrikeForce/HowToRandR12](http://wiki.debian.org/XStrikeForce/HowToRandR12) for more details.

I have been struggling with projector since I upgraded to 8.10. Using xrandr, it worked with another monitor easily, similar to your need. But, I am not yet successful with projector. Login prompt (terminal mode) shows up properly on projector. But graphical (X, Xorg) mode does not detect projector (VGA) at all :-(

In 8.04 and earlier, I had to go to terminal mode (Ctrl+Alt+F1 followed by Fn-F4 on my hp Compaq nx6125 laptop) and then get back to graphical mode (Alt+F7) to get it working with projector. I didn't have to restart X or reboot Linux.

---

### Post by theMayor on 2009-04-01
Thanks sateeshpnv. I was having the same issue was well with my dual monitor setup. When selecting the ubuntu default screen resolution application under the preferences menu, only one monitor showed up. I tried xrandr and it didn't work flawlessly but it did get me to a great point.

What we did to solve the issue was installed 
```
sudo apt-get install grandr
sudo grandr

```

We selected auto for both displays and changed the layout, however, we were getting errors ~"Max resolution couldn't be set" .... 

So .. what ended up working was setting both monitors to the smallest possible resolution(which we found changed the xorg.conf), which was great because it also allowed the usage of ubuntu's default screen resolution tool. We changed both monitors to the proper resolution, restarted X and it worked! 

Hope this helps somebody ...
-theMayor



Modified xorg.conf file afterwards:

```
Section "Screen"
 Identifier "Default Screen"
 Monitor  "Configured Monitor"
 Device  "Configured Video Device"
 SubSection "Display"
  Virtual 2960 1050
 EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

