---
title: "11.04 &quot;grub-install/dev/sda&quot; failed"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by marenum on 2011-04-28
I'm trying to do a fresh install of 11.04 but every time it gets near the end of the install then give me an error reading ""grub-install/dev/sda" failed this is a fatal error".

I wanted to get the 64 bit version since I have an AMD Athlon 64x2, but it didn't work so grabbed the i386 version and got the same error. I also tried burning the disk in windows instead of linux and using a usb drive. Anyone?

---

### Post by K_45 on 2011-04-28
Check the md5sum of the disc, and run a S.M.A.R.T. diagnostic in Windows such as Seagate Seatools. Your HDD may have problems. I'd also use Imgburn to burn the disc, and check verify @ 22x or 24x speed.

---

### Post by marenum on 2011-04-28
Thanks for your reply. The PC I'm trying to install Ubuntu on actually doesn't have windows on it. I'm fairly certain the drive isn't the issue; I've attempted install on 2 different HDs. I'm going to try a 10.04 live CD and see if I can just upgrade from there.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-04-28
Did you leave the installation of the bootloader on default settings or did you choose a different place? Are you using a raid array?

---

### Post by marenum on 2011-04-28
> **Quackers said:**
> Did you leave the installation of the bootloader on default settings or did you choose a different place? Are you using a raid array?

I am not using raid, I'm not sure about your first question though, is there a way I can check?

---

### Post by sd73ta on 2011-04-28
I got the same error upgrading from 1010 to 11 so i tried a frsh install using unetbootin and same error.  this on a dell mini 9 ifthat helps

---

### Post by wallgren on 2011-04-28
Same issue here. On a hp dm1.

---

### Post by Johnhk on 2011-04-29
Hi,

I had the exact same problem, i do also run a RAID array (striped) but the solution for me was to make my own root, boot, home and SWAP partition instead of the automatic one. I hope this helps for you!

Humanity for all!
- John H.K

---

### Post by sd73ta on 2011-04-29
> **Johnhk said:**
> Hi,

I had the exact same problem, i do also run a RAID array (striped) but the solution for me was to make my own root, boot, home and SWAP partition instead of the automatic one. I hope this helps for you!

Humanity for all!
- John H.K

(i need linux for dummies) could you elaborate for me?  Thanks ( :

---

### Post by Johnhk on 2011-04-29
> **sd73ta said:**
> (i need linux for dummies) could you elaborate for me?  Thanks ( :

I think there's better people to explain that than me i'm afraid :S

This might help you:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowtoPartition](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowtoPartition)
[http://www.basicconfig.com/ubuntu_desktop_manual_partition_guide](http://www.basicconfig.com/ubuntu_desktop_manual_partition_guide)

Humanity for all!
- John H.K.

---

### Post by BarbarianNerd on 2011-04-29
I also have this problem... Using nvida stripe volume... tried the upgrade first, and then fresh install. Both failed. I grabbed my 10.10 disk and it installed without issues. I believe it is an install bug and not a hardware issue.

---

### Post by wallgren on 2011-04-30
I solved it temporarily by installing first 11.04 and after that at the end of the disk 10.04. Now i can choose version in a grub-menu at startup. 

My tip is that it is some kind of install bug in 11.04.

---

### Post by devguy on 2011-04-30
I have this exact same problem with Natty.  I'm using the AMD SB750 Raid, and I have RAID 0 and RAID 1 arrays.  Oddly, the RAID 1 array isn't detected at all with the live USB, but it is detected just fine by the Maverick live USB...?

Once I get the "Bootloader install failed" menu, it gives me a couple of options, but the "OK" button doesn't work, regardless of the choice.  I did try making a separate /boot partition, and told the Natty installer to install the boot loader there, but that didn't help either.

I have my RAID 0 array located at /dev/mapper/pdc_cexxxxxx, and my RAID 1 array (which doesn't show up) should be located at /dev/mapper/pdc_eexxxxxx.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by Jytte on 2011-05-01
Having the excatly same problem with installing 11.04 on a raid 0, Upgrade from 10.10 failed at grub and so did a clean instal.
 
I used the 64bit desktop version, and hardware is AMD Phenom II x6 procesor running on.
- Northbridge: AMD 890GX
- Southbridge: AMD SB850 
2 x Samsung HD103SJ Spinpoint F3 in a raid0 on motherboards onboard raid controller (fake raid)

---

### Post by starke88 on 2011-05-02
I was having the same problem. I'm using NVIDIA Raid enabled on an ASUS M2N68-AM PLUS motherboard with two 320GB WD hard disks in stripe.

I have managed to install Grub by following this HOWTO:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099)

Still, this is definitely a bug since Ubuntu 10.10 used to install with no problems.

---

### Post by davisford on 2011-05-03
Same problem.  I have a 400GB SATA primary drive where the OS goes, and three other SATA drives setup in RAID5 /dev/md0.

The upgrade from 10.10 actually worked for me, but when I tried to enable Compiz, the graphics went haywire, and I couldn't re-position any windows, so I decided to just try a clean install.

Same failure at the end -- it keeps trying to put the bootloader on /dev/sda which is one of the RAID drives, and it fails with the same error message referenced here.  When I try to point it to /dev/sdc (which is the OS drive), it does not make any further progress.  In fact, all UI dialogs seems to just be stuck and hang from that point on.

This is also AMD64 -- I'd have to go back and find my exact HW specs.  I can look them up if anyone is interested.

That would suck if it corrupted one or more of my RAID drives.

I'm going to try to do a manual layout, and see if I get anywhere with that.  I also installed Ubuntu 10.10 on this same HW with no issues...seems to be an installer issue...bummer.
---- edit ----

I laid the disk out manually with 100MB /boot, 4GB swap, and the rest as ext4 / and specified explicitly that grub goes into /dev/sdc and it installed ok.  I think the problem is that the auto-layout installer may end up picking the wrong disk, and if it fails, it doesn't recover gracefully and allow you to select another disk.  Well, even though the UI indicates you can select a different disk for grub, it doesn't appear to work.

---

### Post by Jagot on 2011-05-04
Same problem here.

I found the following workaround which I have yet to try yet:

[http://rhetoricaltyro.wordpress.com/2011/04/01/grub2-failing-to-install-properly-during-ubuntu-11-04-beta-installation/]("http://rhetoricaltyro.wordpress.com/2011/04/01/grub2-failing-to-install-properly-during-ubuntu-11-04-beta-installation/")

---

### Post by devguy on 2011-05-05
> **Jagot said:**
> Same problem here.

I found the following workaround which I have yet to try yet:

[http://rhetoricaltyro.wordpress.com/2011/04/01/grub2-failing-to-install-properly-during-ubuntu-11-04-beta-installation/]("http://rhetoricaltyro.wordpress.com/2011/04/01/grub2-failing-to-install-properly-during-ubuntu-11-04-beta-installation/")

That worked for me!  The only thing was that for me, I had to replace /dev/sdX with /dev/mapper/pdc_xxxxxx, as I needed to use my RAID array instead of a simple device.  I still don't know understand the Ubiquity regression over Maverick though.

Also, my problem of the RAID 1 array not being mounted also is a dmraid bug.  [There]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dmraid/+bug/770600") is a PPA you can add to help alleviate the problem.

---

### Post by Jagot on 2011-05-07
Glad it worked.  I've still got nowhere.  Tried installing from both the alternate CD and desktop CD (both install only and try).  I've also tried upgrading from a clean 10.10, and no luck.  I've also tried the various methods relating to restoring/reinstalling grub2 from a live CD and no luck either.

For reference, my setup is a quad-boot:
sda1: Win 7
sda2: Ubuntu
sda3: Fedora 15
sda4: extended {
sda5: openSUSE 11.4
sda6: swap}

64bit, No RAID.

Has anyone else had any luck?

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-05-07
If you have a raid setup try installing kpartx to the live desktop before installing 11.04.
Then at the bottom of the partitioning page in the installer at the "destination for bootloader" (or something like that) make sure you choose the raid drive, or it will default to /dev/sda. The raid drive will be something like /dev/mapper/nvidiaxxxxxxx-xxxx or /dev/mapper/isw_bsdhcufke but not a partition! Just the drive. (A partition will have a number after it).

---

### Post by Hakri on 2011-05-08
Quackers > Hi, I also have this "grub-install\dev\sda" error.
I have a RAID0 set up, never had any problem with Ubuntu 10.10 but Ubuntu 11.04 keeps failing at the same moment.  No matter what I do (update, clean install over 10.10, clean automatic install alongside with Windows 7, clean manual install, etc.).

I have kinda tried your solution (choosing the whole RAID0 drive instead of leaving on the \dev\sda partition), except that I have not installed kpartx through the Live CD.  Do you think installing kpartx will change something ?

I'd like to precise that what ever I choose for the bootloader, it ALWAYS tries to install it in \dev\sda\.
So I guess the purpose of installing kpartx is to make sure Ubuntu installs GRUB within the RAID0 and not \dev\sda\ ?

P.S. : By "installing kpartx to the live desktop before installing 11.04", do you mean "Boot 11.04 as a Live CD, install kpartx using Terminal, reboot 11.04 and Install instead of using it as a Live CD" ?

Thank you in advance.

Edit : After booting Ubuntu 11.01 as Live CD, I notice I can install Ubuntu without having to restart the computer, I'm gonna try that.


Edit 2 : It does not work AT ALL.
I just tried.  Got the same darn error.
We don't need to install kpartx, and where ever we want GRUB to install, it does not give a pop tart, it always tries to go into \dev\sda

---

### Post by nutznboltz on 2011-05-28
worked for me:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dmraid/+bug/770600](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dmraid/+bug/770600)

---

### Post by meisty on 2011-06-19
So I struggled with this for days and finally came accross something that said use alternate install cd... So I did, and it worked perfectly. 

Just make sure you know the name of your raid disk (ex. pdc_asdfadsf) because when you get to the bootloader installer page on the alternate install cd it doesn't suggest it for you. 

So relieved :)

---

### Post by rawsilk on 2011-08-14
Hi, I think you may find this useful [http://productive.me/blog/installing-ubuntu-64-bit-on-intel-raid-0-configuration/](http://productive.me/blog/installing-ubuntu-64-bit-on-intel-raid-0-configuration/)

---

### Post by Ciaffone on 2011-08-18
I have the same issue as above, but I'd rather just manually install a bootloader (if it will let me out of the dialog).  How would one do that?

Note: I have just enough server admin knowledge to be dangerous to myself and others.

cheers

---

