---
title: "8.04 Issues"
date: 2008-05-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dtrot55 on 2008-05-10
Currently i have 8.04 X64 installed on my computer.  I have been noticing some issues that are causing performance to decrease.  For example, FF 3 beta lagging horribly...sometimes when i go to sites the window will darken its self and the for some reason FF will start eating memory like crazy and then cause SLLLLLOWWW performance.  Also just sitting back and looking at my computer doing certain things will cause the computer to access the hard drive for a long period of time without me really doing anything but chatting.  I would really like to use 8.04 but maybe a downgrade to 7.10 will be better till they fix the issues in 8.04??? Or should i just go back to x32 8.04?

Also CSS running in Wine only gets 9-20 FPS.  Pretty much makes the game unplayable... i have a Nvidia 8600GTXXX 256mb video card and in windows it runs great..but in Ubuntu looks as if im running a crappy vcard.  Any idea????

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-05-10
> **dtrot55 said:**
> Currently i have 8.04 X64 installed on my computer.  I have been noticing some issues that are causing performance to decrease.  For example, FF 3 beta lagging horribly...sometimes when i go to sites the window will darken its self and the for some reason FF will start eating memory like crazy and then cause SLLLLLOWWW performance.  Also just sitting back and looking at my computer doing certain things will cause the computer to access the hard drive for a long period of time without me really doing anything but chatting.  I would really like to use 8.04 but maybe a downgrade to 7.10 will be better till they fix the issues in 8.04??? Or should i just go back to x32 8.04?

Also CSS running in Wine only gets 9-20 FPS.  Pretty much makes the game unplayable... i have a Nvidia 8600GTXXX 256mb video card and in windows it runs great..but in Ubuntu looks as if im running a crappy vcard.  Any idea????

Did you upgrade from 7.10?

A clean install *(from cd)* **could** fix most problems. (*back up data if you should do it.)*

Upgrading an OS is always risky.

---

### Post by dtrot55 on 2008-05-10
Yes, it was a fresh install from the live cd

---

### Post by brettg on 2008-05-10
FF3 is (as you already know) a beta product. I had similar issues (as well as an incompatible plugin) so i went  back to FF2 and haven't had a problem since. I suggest you do the same.

---

### Post by warbread on 2008-05-10
I'm also using 8.04 64 bit and I've noticed no problems with FF3.  If anything, it's faster than 2.  I play all of my games in Windows, so I can't speak to the problems with Wine, but in general my desktop feels more responsive.  I upgraded as opposed to fresh install.  It was my first upgrade, too.  I usually start over from scratch.

---

### Post by dtrot55 on 2008-05-10
Reading in other forums i have found that there is a CPU bug in FF3 Beta....seems on some computers it likes to eat up your mem  and processor...i did notice in my system monitor that 1 of my cpus was 100% for awhile even after FF3 was closed because it crashed....so i think ill just install Seamonkey for now till FF3 the final version is released...Love FF but yeah it is obvious that its in beta so its hit or miss for some people...but the WINE issue is disappointing...i hate that i have to jump back and forth to play a game...so i just want to get this Ubuntu installation working correctly so i can decide if i want to stick with it.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-05-10
delete both "urlclassifier3" files in your firefox folder... there is some bug with that one... (or rather rename them just to be sure ^^)

---

