---
title: "10.04 ubuntu problems"
date: 2013-01-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mrhacksalot on 2013-01-31
Alright so I do have some experience with computers and I just came from a windows operating system (after coding a virus for it, wrecking my computer(software wise), fixing it, and then formatting it. XD) so I am running (os is 32 bit)ubuntu 10.04.2 lucid backtrack 5 r3 and kernel version 3.2.6 (although I'm pretty sure somethings wrong with it and im tired of looking around) I'm running 64x amd athlon nvidia gforce 9400 and I have 4 gigs of ddr3 ram and some harman kardon like windows 98 speakers XD sound card is onboard some old hp motherboard   I have downloaded the nvidia common and 173 drivers (neither nor were working and I have went through multiple deletions)  I downloaded oracle vm virtual box and I went to the log file and the following pulls up:

 Attempting to install using DKMS   removing old DKMS module vboxdrv version  3.2.6  ------------------------------ Deleting module version: 3.2.6 completely from the DKMS tree. ------------------------------ Done.  Creating symlink /var/lib/dkms/vboxdrv/3.2.6/source ->                  /usr/src/vboxdrv-3.2.6  DKMS: add Completed.  Kernel preparation unnecessary for this kernel.  Skipping...  Building module: cleaning build area.... make KERNELRELEASE=3.2.6 -C /lib/modules/3.2.6/build M=/var/lib/dkms/vboxdrv/3.2.6/build....(bad exit status: 2)  Error! Bad return status for module build on kernel: 3.2.6 (i686) Consult the make.log in the build directory /var/lib/dkms/vboxdrv/3.2.6/build/ for more information. 0 0 Failed to install using DKMS, attempting to install without make KBUILD_VERBOSE=1 -C /lib/modules/3.2.6/build SUBDIRS=/tmp/vbox.0 SRCROOT=/tmp/vbox.0 modules /usr/src/linux-headers-3.2.6/arch/x86/Makefile:39: /usr/src/linux-headers-3.2.6/arch/x86/Makefile_32.cpu: No such file or directory make[1]: *** No rule to make target `/usr/src/linux-headers-3.2.6/arch/x86/Makefile_32.cpu'.  Stop. make: *** [vboxdrv] Error 2

 Didnt get through reading it all cus I figured my kernel was just in need in fixing, also my sound doesn't correspond too well .. keyboard shortcuts don't work (such as extra keys on side like volume control and disk tray control) I set them up multiple times and I have updated/upgraded my distro via terminal and my sound for some reason doesnt correspond, its like the only hardware that it picks up is my processor and the make of my graphics card ..   p.s. sorry for the extraneous grammatical structure (or lack there of) its like one in the morning and I have been at it all day. hope thats all the problems!

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-01-31
I'm afraid that your install is so mixed up at this point that it would be like trying to unravel a fur-ball. Usually, people try to straighten out one non-working element at a time. So, here are my observations:

1. Ubuntu 10.04 is no longer supported.
2. It is generally a bad idea to force later kernels onto older versions. The dependencies get all mixed up, as seems to have occurred with you. 10.04 maxed out with the 2.6.x kernel series. Most of the 10.04 packages would be expecting the 2.6 kernel and are likely borking on the unexpected kernel.
3. I have no idea why you would code a virus for Windows. To put it mildly, it sounds rather sinister. Perhaps I misunderstand, or you are trying to say something else. In any case, if you are used to playing fast and loose with OSes, then I very much doubt that anyone on earth can help you, because you are rendering your system so non-standard that no one can correlate to a common starting point.
4. Granted, there are some things in the kernel that need fixing, they most definitely don't take the form you describe. Seems to me that you have shoehorned an improper kernel into an obsolete version and have done who knows what else in hacks and tweaks.
5. If your handle is any indication, your problems are most definitely not those of an Absolute Beginner.

If you wish to attain a working system, then I suggest a fresh install of 12.04.1 with graphics drivers, keyboard maps and VMs specifically made to work on 12.04. You can then install another image of 12.04 or whatever you desire on the VM and hack to your heart's content. If you break it, you can simply fall back to the last working snapshot. But if you insist on taking your main system apart, then all bets are off and I can't see how you can expect to be anything but on your own.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-01-31
> **DuckHook said:**
> 
Ubuntu 10.04 is no longer supported.

Yes it is, but only a few months more on desktop.
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ubuntu_releases#Version_timeline](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ubuntu_releases#Version_timeline)

Agree that a fresh install would be the best option. If you wait a day or so 12.04.2 should be available.
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+cdmirrors](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+cdmirrors)

---

### Post by mrhacksalot on 2013-01-31
thanks guys big help, and I just went off of what a friend told me with ubuntu. He just handed me a thumb drive and was like format the second drive and install this OS .. I said alright lmao the kernel came with the version that he gave me and It wasnt working write then so i figured that I would do a little research and upgrade and update the system lol so its been fked from the start .. so what would be the absolute best linux OS in your guys' opionion, not for beginers but for compatibility features and driver support and all that good stuff.
ps am I able to put backtrack on the newer OS's

---

### Post by mrhacksalot on 2013-01-31
its also i386 ... i have amd processor -_-
lol i dont take credit for this install!

---

### Post by mrhacksalot on 2013-01-31
P.S. I am doing my research and i realize that my above comment is pretty much invalid except that its 32 bit and I can have 64 bit lol feelin dumb

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-01-31
The reference to AMD processor is old info as many of those originally were 64-bit.  AMD and other processors both come in 32-bit and 64-bit versions.  So, even if you have an Intel 64-bit processor, you can still use the "AMD" 64-bit install.

---

### Post by Zill on 2013-01-31
> **mrhacksalot said:**
> ...the kernel came with the version that he gave me and It wasnt working write...
All the installed packages (libraries, applications etc) for a given Linux distribution are generally based on a particular kernel and so the kernel should *not* be changed.  To do so risks considerable system breakage! Lucid *should* use kernel v2.6.32 hence your problems with v3.2.6.

Note that backtrack is a totally different distribution and, although it is based on Ubuntu, it uses different repositories and packages.  AIUI, standard Ubuntu cannot install "backtrack" as such although some of the functionality in backtrack can be installed to an Ubuntu system.  However, if you know enough to *need* backtrack (and can use it responsibly!) then you should know *how* to do this.
> **mrhacksalot said:**
> ...so what would be the absolute best linux OS in your guys' opionion, not for beginers but for compatibility features and driver support and all that good stuff...
There is no "best linux OS" as it totally depends on what you wish to use it for!  Similarly, "compatibility features and driver support" is a meaningless phrase as this depends on (a) compatibility with what? and (b) drivers for which hardware?.

Although you may regard yourself as experienced with Windows, this can really be a disadvantage in the Linux world as Linux and Windows systems work in totally different ways.  My advice is to "learn to walk before you run" by using a standard Ubuntu installation and don't tinker with the defaults *until* you know what you are doing.  With time, you will learn how to use Linux effectively and should be able to resolve any problems you hit, with help from these forums if necessary.

---

### Post by mrhacksalot on 2013-01-31
once again thank you for your help and I am learning very quickly and I understand about the functionality and opinions which is why I asked "opinion" (about "best" distros) but I think I will install 12.04.1 now and try and get as much working with very minimal resorcess and then get a virtual machine running a server then install backtrack on one of the crappy laptops around my room and bare bones it for .. well the purpose of backtrack ;)

---

### Post by mrhacksalot on 2013-01-31
have ubuntu 12.04.1 running, have updated and all that jazz now researching on many aspects of this wonderful ubuntu world!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-02-01
Good, then please mark the thread 'solved'.

---

