---
title: "11.04 GUFW Firewall"
date: 2011-08-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-08-19
So far I have not used this firewall in Ubuntu. I have had no reason too. As a precaution would it be wise to do so? Is it worth the trouible?

---

### Post by androssofer on 2011-08-19
> **gumshoegrant said:**
> So far I have not used this firewall in Ubuntu. I have had no reason too. As a precaution would it be wise to do so? Is it worth the trouible?

if your behind a router, it will generally has a firewall built in and you should b ok. However if you computer directly connects to the internet, it might b best to use it.

Ubuntu is almost 100% from virus's but there is still exploits people can take advantage of to control your computer. The firewall set up it generally very simple... so i wudnt say it be too much trouble for the peace of mind u'll get from it :-)

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2011-08-19
You're already using a firewall. iptables is built into the kernel. Everything else is just a front-end for iptables. Unless you have a pressing need to re-configure the firewall then there's no need to install anything to help you configure it.

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-08-19
> **CatKiller said:**
> You're already using a firewall. iptables is built into the kernel. Everything else is just a front-end for iptables. Unless you have a pressing need to re-configure the firewall then there's no need to install anything to help you configure it.

+1

GUFW is simply a GUI for UFW (uncomplicated firewall) which is an interface to help you manipulate IPTables without the complicated CLI used.

IPTables (netfilter) is a firewall hardcoded into the Linux Kernel and unless you have specific requirements then best left alone ;-)

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-08-19
I'd say +1 to the first poster, except to add that by default Ubuntu doesn't listen for any incoming ports anyway. Enabling a firewall will do nothing that your computer isn't currently doing.

You should only enable your firewall if you've got extra "server" services installed, such as SSH or Apache, that you don't want people outside your machine to be able to use.

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2011-08-19
It takes literally one command in terminal "sudo ufw enable" then uncomplicated firewall is set up...


404

---

### Post by baddnady23 on 2011-08-19
> **not found said:**
> It takes literally one command in terminal "sudo ufw enable" then uncomplicated firewall is set up...


404

You don't have to set up any rules for it then, it just runs as is??

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-08-19
> **baddnady23 said:**
> You don't have to set up any rules for it then, it just runs as is??

```

chris@chris-desktop:~$ sudo ufw status
[sudo] password for chris: 
Status: inactive
chris@chris-desktop:~$ sudo ufw enable
Firewall is active and enabled on system startup
chris@chris-desktop:~$ sudo ufw status verbose
Status: active
Logging: on (low)
Default: deny (incoming), allow (outgoing)
New profiles: skip

```

Looks like it gets set up out-of-the-box to deny all incoming connections, so to answer your question: Yes.

Best way to run a firewall: Deny anything you don't have an exception for. I'm pleased, if completely unsurprised, that UFW works this way by default too.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-08-19
Thanks to All for the comments.

gumshoegrant

---

### Post by Colin Keenan on 2011-08-21
I am trying to get Graboid download manager to work in wine and it needs some ports to get through the firewall. I opened the ports in my router. Still didn't work, so I installed Firewall Configuration, but it shows the firewall isn't even enabled.

Posting this question just to make sure.

If the firewall is not enabled, that means all ports are open for both incoming and outgoing, right?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-08-21
> **Colin Keenan said:**
> I am trying to get Graboid download manager to work in wine and it needs some ports to get through the firewall.

Does it?

That's odd, and at least slightly suspicious. There's no way should a download manager require incoming ports - only outgoing ports, which are not usually blocked.

> I opened the ports in my router. Still didn't work, so I installed Firewall Configuration, but it shows the firewall isn't even enabled.

Posting this question just to make sure.

If the firewall is not enabled, that means all ports are open for both incoming and outgoing, right?

It means ports can be opened by a program that is listening or sending. If the UFW firewall is turned on, it blocks incoming ports but not outgoing ports by default.

Either way, it shouldn't cause any issues with a download manager. Maybe it's something to do with Wine; some limitation in Wine?

I imagine there's a particular reason why you're not using one of the native Linux download managers?

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2011-08-22
> **3rdalbum said:**
> I imagine there's a particular reason why you're not using one of the native Linux download managers?

Not really relevant to to the thread however I love **wget**... it must be one of my all time favorite utilities...


404

---

