---
title: "9.10 boots up with sound MUTED"
date: 2009-12-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by held7over on 2009-12-11
Running Ubuntu 9.10 Gnome

About 50% of the time, my system boots up with the sound muted and the volume slider set at zero. I have unmuted it and turned up the sound in Preferences and from the icon in the notification area. But the problem persists. Is there some file or something I can edit to make the defaults for mute and volume be set on boot up so that I have sound?

Thanks! :P

---

### Post by joes7 on 2009-12-11
Check the "Programmed Tasks". Are you sure that you ain't saving session with your speakers muted?, it is very normal, though.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-12-11
Have you run all of the updates?

That was a common problem throughout development but I thought it was largely resolved.

There are still bugs however! Some are hardware specific so just because all's fine for me doesn't mean it will be for you.

---

### Post by held7over on 2009-12-12
I just ran update manager yesterday again. My sound was muted again this morning when I booted up.

"Programmed Tasks'?  I don't see anything on the Administration or Preferences menus concerning that or a session manager. What application are you referring to?

---

### Post by joes7 on 2009-12-16
Update,update,update.

---

### Post by held7over on 2009-12-16
This is a full and fresh install of 9.10, and it is fully updated.

I must be blind as a bat. I don't see anything concerning Sessions on the Preferences menu.... :)

---

### Post by held7over on 2009-12-17
This probably has nothing to do with the problem of being muted, but after I un-mute it increase the volume in preferences to 100% and close. If I then hover my mouse over the volume icon, it reports the volume is set at 135%!!! :)  I guess that is the definition of "Be all you can be!"

---

