---
title: "[SOLVED] Frustrated at settings refusing to respond to my orders"
date: 2009-01-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by icyest on 2009-01-01
The System beep is driving me mad! I cant turn it off. It plays every time I shut down/restart. I've tried everything:
System > Preferences
[[IMG]http://img211.imageshack.us/img211/4834/screenshotsoundpreferenun7.png[/IMG]](http://imageshack.us)

From /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
[IMG]http://img61.imageshack.us/img61/254/screenshotblacklistetcmkt2.png[/IMG]

And from this tutorial:[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2007/07/26/turning-off-the-system-hardware-beep-linux-tutorial/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2007/07/26/turning-off-the-system-hardware-beep-linux-tutorial/)

I never would have thought Ubuntu could be so stubborn. I'd expect this from windows, but Ubuntu? Whats could be going on?

---

### Post by Dedoimedo on 2009-01-01
Can you please tell if there's any external hardware connected to your machine? What happens if you run "sudo init 0" or "sudo init 6" - these are the shutdown and reboot, respectively.
Dedoimedo

---

### Post by NE Key on 2009-01-01
What surprises me is that the list of events is greyed out.

I have disabled the log in beep/sound on the list in the systems>preferences>sounds window you show.


You have (in the window) under the heading  " Desktop ",
 the line below;  " Log -in      Default "

Obviously you want  " Log in   Disabled " for that line.  So left click on the word "Default" and change it to "Disabled"

---

### Post by mcduck on 2009-01-01
the event list is grayed out because the sounds are disabled by unticking the "Play alerts and sound effects"-checkbox.

Anyway, since the question is about the system beep, the operating system's sound settings are not relevant. That beep can be disabled from your computer's BIOS settings.

edit: the linked tutorial is about disabling the terminal bell sound (while the computer is running), and has nothing to do with the POST beep during computer bootup. Apart from the fact that both use the beeper, of course. ;) Terminal bell can also usually be disabled simply from terminal program's settings.

The login sound setting in Gnome's configuration refers to the login sound played after you have logged into Gnome while the desktop is loading.

---

### Post by NE Key on 2009-01-03
McDuck -

So this a system beep generated by the BIOS on boot rather than a beep generated by the OS once it is loaded and running ?

I would never have thought of that.

---

### Post by lswest on 2009-01-03
If it's from the BIOS, chances are you're either pushing your PSU to the limit (read: it's barely supplying enough info) or there are heating issues, or other kinds of hardware problems.  It usually means something when the BIOS starts beeping (in my experience at least).

See here: [http://www.pchell.com/hardware/beepcodes.shtml](http://www.pchell.com/hardware/beepcodes.shtml)

---

### Post by nandemonai on 2009-01-03
Can always just whip out the pc speaker, I did :P

If you ever need to diagnose a system problem just stick it back in.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-01-03
Why not just disconnect it? Physically?

I fail to see what's so offensive about the beep. I find it useful; no matter if I have my sound output to speakers or headphones, I can always hear the PC speaker beep.

---

### Post by hansdown on 2009-01-03
Hi icyest.

Go to system> preferences> sound.

Here you can click on system beep, and uncheck the box.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2009-01-03
> **lswest said:**
> If it's from the BIOS, chances are you're either pushing your PSU to the limit (read: it's barely supplying enough info) or there are heating issues, or other kinds of hardware problems.  It usually means something when the BIOS starts beeping (in my experience at least).

See here: [http://www.pchell.com/hardware/beepcodes.shtml](http://www.pchell.com/hardware/beepcodes.shtml)

Well, no. By default most computers output a single, short beep doing the power-on self test (while booting/restarting the machine). The purpose is to simply make sure the beeper works (so it's not an error code, more of the opposite ;)).

The POST beep can usually be disabled from BIOS, the name of the setting depends on your BIOS version). For example, on my laptop, the setting is called "Play POST Sound" and on my desktop it's "Startup beeper test", in both cases under Advanced BIOS settings.

The more complex, or longer lasting, beeps of course are BIOS error codes like lswest said.

However I'm still not sure if the original poster is asking about a sound during the computer startup/restart, OS startup/restart or desktop startup/restart.. They are all different things and are configured from different places. (POST beeper from BIOS, login sounds from GDM configuration and desktop sounds from that user's personal sound settings)

Like I said in my previous post, the beeper is also used as terminal bell. For all the virtual terminals you can just disable it from the terminal applications settings. I Gnome Terminal go to profile settings, and under the General-tab disable the "Terminal bell"-checkbox. In case you want to disable the terminal bell while using one of the TTYs you could follow the link in the first post, but that really doesn't effect what the beeper does when the OS is not running so POST beep needs to still be disabled from BIOS.

---

### Post by lswest on 2009-01-03
True too McDuck, but I wasn't sure if it was one short beep or not (if it isn't, then it does mean something) - it was all described in the link I posted.

I forgot that they do self-tests on boot up (mainly because I disabled it on all the PCs in my house that HAVE speakers :P)  Thanks for pointing that out.

---

### Post by icyest on 2009-01-04
I had a technician friend rip it out. Thanks you guys! well appreciated.

---

