---
title: "14.10 freeze with youtube"
date: 2014-11-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Rrory on 2014-11-05
I installed 14.10 (which is great) but when I have played youtube, the screen freezes. I press the power button and restart, which is probably bad. Is there anything I can do. I'm rather worried as I did this install and deleted Windows 8.1. wondering if I screwed things up since the last time I installed Linux there was a Bios. My HP boots from Ubuntu not  UEFA if that's okay.
rory

---

### Post by Penguin360 on 2014-11-05
You probably need to install proprietary driver for your graphic card. Go to System Settings->Software & Updates->Additional Drivers, if there is any proprietary driver listed, then install it.

If it is not related to your graphic driver, then install Google Chrome and use Chrome to watch your YouTube video to see if the problem still exists.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-11-05
I think there may be something wrong with 14.10's Firefox build.  I am having same problem plus FF freezing randomly not just on Youtube (no problem with same version of FF on same machine with Ubuntu 14.04)

 See if this describes your experience
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2250936&p=13160821#post13160821](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2250936&p=13160821#post13160821)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-11-05
Have you installed ubuntu-restricted-extras and Software Sources>Third-party software?

---

### Post by Rrory on 2014-11-07
today had  2 random non youtube related  freezes so I think I'll try using Chrome browser first...(restricted extras and 3rd party software were installed before the freeze)

---

