---
title: "11.04 - Flash problems"
date: 2011-10-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-20
I let flash install as it prompted to do so.  The little ads, for example, that are on a Yahoo! page seem to be fine, but when I click on links that load up a movie, it is constantly coming up and saying video is no longer available.  That would be all good and fine except that when I boot up Windows XP in a VM and connect to the same page(s) with I.E., everything comes up.

So, is there a setting somewhere I'm missing?  Do I need to change which Flash player outside of the default?

Thanks in advance!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-10-20
>   Do I need to change which Flash player outside of the default?
If you want to remove flash and then reinstall from adobe.com let me know.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-28
I've been fighting this all week, and finally am more than willing to take any help I can!  The attached screen shot shows when it really gets interesting - claims the video is no longer available, but plays it behind the message!

Thanks!!

Dave ;)

EDIT:  BTW, I fell back to 10.10 and still have the same issue as shown in the screen capture.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-29
Bump.. Done the install from package manager thing and then reversed it.  Done the install via the browser when the message comes up saying I need the newest flash player - makes no difference.  Tried the Firefox add on to choose the correct one - still no luck.

I really would like to have it working again in 10.10, but even more importantly in 11.xx.  Part of the things I messed up that made me go back to 10.10.

Thanks in advance!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-30
Got it working finally, but it makes no sense to me.  I thought the flashplayer-installer in the package manager would have installed the same thing, but I had problems with it as well.

I deleted EVERYTHING I could that dealt with flash.  Then I went to the command line and used apt-get to install flashplayer-nonfree.

Been working fine since.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-10-30
Or you could have used flash aid? 

Or install the latest libflash.so plugin yourself.... Very easy.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-30
Used flash-aid - had the same problems.  Tried the .so as well with the same problem.  That's what was getting me extremely frustrated with this for the first time in years.  Blowing away any and all things flash related, then the apt-get of flashreader-nonfree was the only way I got it to work.  Why?  Beats the heck out of me!  I thought any one of the many things I tried should have fixed it.  Oh well, at least it works now.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-31
And now playing - back to the way it was.  Some just say video is no longer available (in ubuntu - they're there in Windows), others as per my previous screen post:  the text through them saying they are no longer available but they still play anyway.

If ANYONE can help me get around this mess it would be GREATLY appreciated!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-01
Bump (an hour early - I'm going to bed).

---

### Post by beew on 2011-11-01
This may be a stupid question but did you actually run flash-aid? Installing it doesn't do anything.

 To run the script click the little pink button with the "f" in the center on the Firefox addon bar (If it doesn't show go to View > Toolbars > Add-on bar and check it)

P.S. Does it happen on all sites? How about youtube?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-01
Crap.  I don't remember doing that.  I'm on my Windows laptop right now but going to try that again when I get back on the desktop.  I feel stupid.

Thanks!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-01
Still no go.  I reinstalled the flash-aid plugin, clicked on the flash symbol, closed firefox, and let it delete my existing flash and install the beta it recommended.  Then restarted firefox with the same error.  Right off the Yahoo! home page - a video for Nasa's new orbital observatory.  The screen shot shows the results in Ubuntu - video not found, and show that at the same time it's running fine in IE8 in Windows XP SP3 in a VM.

This is all getting QUITE frustrating to me.

And BTW - I'm still back at 10.10 until I can get things worked out to where I want to try 11.10 again.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-11-01
Sorry, I don't know what is wrong then. I just went to your page and it was fine, see attached screenshot. I am on 11.04. 

p.s. There is an odd chance that it may be your graphic driver, the latest Nvidia 290.xx beta driver did crash Flash for FF in one of my 11.04 installations,--it is a Nvidia problem and has been reported on their forum. I got it working again by installing a .deb package for an earlier version of flash (10.xx) from Mint's repository, but the symptom was different from yours (flash just crashed on every site)

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2011-11-01
> **collisionystm said:**
> Or you could have used flash aid? 

Or install the latest **libflash.so** plugin yourself.... Very easy.
you mean libflashplayer.so

---

### Post by Steeperton on 2011-11-01
Are you on 64bit? Try removing the Hardware acceleration option when using flash aid - this has caused issues on my flash player (but admittedly, not the same problem as yours!).

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2011-11-01
> **Steeperton said:**
> Are you on 64bit? Try removing the Hardware acceleration option when using flash aid - this has caused issues on my flash player (but admittedly, not the same problem as yours!).
that option is pointless in the current latest flash 11 release
adobe killed the feature i wish they would give it as a unsupported feature

---

### Post by beew on 2011-11-01
> **pqwoerituytrueiwoq said:**
> that option is pointless in the current latest flash 11 release
adobe killed the feature i wish they would give it as a unsupported feature
  Actually that feature is restored in the latest beta version of flash (installed via flash-aid) , at least for 32 bits.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-01
From beew:
> 
Sorry, I don't know what is wrong then. I just went to your page and it was fine, see attached screenshot. I am on 11.04.

p.s. There is an odd chance that it may be your graphic driver, the latest Nvidia 290.xx beta driver did crash Flash for FF in one of my 11.04 installations,--it is a Nvidia problem and has been reported on their forum. I got it working again by installing a .deb package for an earlier version of flash (10.xx) from Mint's repository, but the symptom was different from yours (flash just crashed on every site).


Hummmmmmm.  These problems with 11.04, 11.10 and now back in 10.10 (went backwards since I had problems in the 11.xx releases) all started after I bought a nVidia card before updating as I had ATI and was getting tired of fighting the drivers.  I believe the nVidia is something like GeForce "x" 9500 or 9600 - it was supposed to be a decent card for a non-gamer.  I've always taken the recommended driver from the list additional drivers gives.  It supposedly is the most current.  It also lists a driver version 173 so I am installing that as we speak.  Will give it a good try out then post back.

Thanks!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-01
Well poo.  Still the same problem.  You do have me curious on the video driver now though.  Perhaps a little more background:

- I tried updating to 11.04, and had nothing but bad video from the start.  I had a built-in ATI 4200 and also tried an ATI 5500 (?) that was a separate card.  Same problems.  I had been fighting drivers for ATI for a while - the ATI driver was not good so I had been using the open-source driver.  When these problems started when I was installing 11.04 I just decided it was time to bite the bullet and just buy a nVidia card and be done with it, foolishly, it appears, I'd be done with "driver drama".  I bought a Zotac GeForce 9500GT, PCIe, 1GB DDR2.  I'm not a gamer (the only "game" I use are card games and MarioKart on my Wii - pretty lousy for 55+, eh?), so I thought this should be more than enough card, and I thought being new enough the drivers should work in Ubuntu. When I got 11.04 installed I was having flash problems and some other things here and there, but thought I'd live with it until I took the time to fix them all.  Well, along came 11.10, so I just did a fresh install with it.  Next thing you know, Unity doesn't want to work.  Every time I tried to select 1 of the other desktop managers for a session at login I would get a screen of icons and nothing else.  No tool bars, no Unity-like popping in, nothing.  Clicking an icon did nothing.  I had to press the reset button on my PC to try again.  Same problems no matter what I did.  So, that's when I decided to go back to 10.10.

- In 10.10, I originally tried the driver recommended by additional drivers.  Just in the last 30 minutes I tried the version 173 driver.  Still the same results with flash.  At least in 10.10 I can do things, but I haven't even thought about trying eye-candy again - I figure it's not worth messing with until the basics are all working okay - why compound problems.

So here I sit.  Flash-aid did it's thing, no go.  Tried the loading of the object, no go.  I've tried different versions of flash, no go.  I've tried the gnu version of flash player, no go.  I'm starting to wonder if I need to find a way to update Firefox in 10.10 to version newer than 3.6.23 to see if that helps.


So, there's the story.  I've tried everything I can think of, and I've tried things provided by others, and still don't have flash working right.  I suppose it's better than a hard crash, although there are times it dies, restarts itself, says the video is no longer available, dies, restarts itself...  just a big loop.

I really want to get this worked out and anything I'm supposed to be doing with my video prior to attempting 11.10 again (I'll skip 11.04 since 11.10 is out now).


Thanks
Dave ;)

---

### Post by beew on 2011-11-01
Do you have another browser such as Opera or Chromium? It would be interesting to see if this affects only Firefox. 

Since you are not a gamer maybe you can try the open source drivers if the proprietary ones are not working well(for either card), the drivers bundled with Ubuntu are outdated and perform very poorly, you need the cutting edge for good performance. If you intend to run 11.04 and try the open source drivers update with xorg-edgers [https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa]("https://launchpad.net/%7Exorg-edgers/+archive/ppa") (but it will not work with 11.10 for Unity 3d, see Important Notice 2 on the site) I have tried these drivers on both Nvidia and ATI machines and they are very good, 3d desktop eye candies, hd videos and google earth all work perfectly (except with a bit of tearing for watching videos, but not much)

As for going to 11.10, my advice is don't. Not yet. Wait a few months for the bugs to be fixed. Right now it is not very stable and graphic performance is crap in my test install. In 11.04 I can watch  hd videos seamlessly even with the open source graphic drivers (updated with xorg-edgers ppa which doesn't work on 11.10, as mentioned above), whereas in 11.10 I can't play these same videos without a lot of stuttering even with Nvidia's proprietary driver (on the same machine, I boot off an external drive for testing) Compiz's cube flickers a lot when rotating and windows don't get carried over to the next desktop with shift+ ctr+lt + left/right, eye of gnome is not working so can't open any jpeg or png files (all of these are confirmed bugs)

11.04 is a winner at this point. It is fast and stable, it has rich up to date software supports since all the ppas are in place and working(not so for 11.10), it has the newest kernel (again ppa),  performance wise it is better than 10.10 and more hardware works ootb. I am still running 10.10 on my main machine though I have been using 11.04 extensively on my test partition(in an external drive). I am updating to 11.04 next month when I get around to. 

I usually stay 1/2 to 1 release behind since it takes a while for the post release bug fixes to roll in. With the 11.xx it would take longer because of the big changes.

Sorry cannot be of any more help.

P.S. xorg-edgers also provides the newest Nvidia beta driver for 11.04. But DON'T USE IT if you want the Nvidia driver as 290.03(?) breaks flash on FF (seems only on FF, on Opera it is fine. It is a Nvidia problem) If you want the most up to date stable Nvidia driver (for 11.04 and 10.10) use the xswat ppa instead. [https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-01
I'm going to try a different browser in a few minutes.  11.04 was okay for me, with just a few things to work out that I never took the time to.  When 11.10 came out I did what I normally don't do, and normally don't recommend on 2 fronts:  I tried almost as soon as it was out instead of letting it settle in, and I actually tried the upgrade this time - with dismal results as has always been the case.  I've always advised against that as well then I read a few things indicating it works now - well, if so, not worth a dang.  So, I had to reformat and do a clean install like I normally do anyway.  Could have saved some time.  At any rate, had problems like you mention with 11.10 and hence why I just went back to 10.10.

I'll try the browser thing a in few minutes, then I may try something else as well:  reformatting and doing a fresh install of 11.04 but not checking the box to automatically download 3rd party things, etc., to see if that helps.  I also find it interesting that my Windows 7 laptop goes through updates everyday, yet the version of flash on it is 10.x..... instead of the 11.x...... being installed by flash-aid.  I did try manually installing 10.x...... in Linux but no change.

Thanks!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-01
Same problem in Chromiun, so I didn't even bother to go beyond that.  Add to that that now my Firefox has "taken a liking" to crashing, and I'm pretty fed up.

Going to re-download the 11.04 image, check the checksum, burn a Cd and check it, then install 11.04 again and see where I end up.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-02
This is getting very, very old.  I have looked on the net - nothing that helps.  Searched the forum - nothing that helps.  Went back to 10.10 - didn't help.  Downloaded 11.10 again, checked the md5sum, did a clean install (keeping my /home partition) - this used my old settings including flash-aid which I clicked on and let it to it's thing - nothing helped.  Deleted the .mozilla folder in my home folder to remove any known ties to my old 11.04 to 11.10 to 10.10 then back to 11.10 excursion, no difference.

It would seem to me that getting a flash player that works shouldn't be this big of a deal.  I'm getting rather p***ed at the whole thing, and it's leaving a VERY sour taste in my mouth right now - something I have had with Ubuntu in a long long time.

Isn't there anyone out there that can either tell me what I'm doing wrong or at least digest what I have, get me to a clean slate, and get things installed so they will work?

---

### Post by beew on 2011-11-02
Seems that somehow your settings are screw up. If you want to start with a clean slate you shouldn't keep your old settings (as you said you keep your /home). I gather that it worked before, right?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-02
That's the part that is making me angry - it worked in 10.10 for months before I upgraded to 11.04.  Flash didn't work in 11.04, but it was the least of my worries.  I jumped on 11.10 when it came out hoping it would fix some of my problems and hopefully fix flash. When that made no difference is when I decided to go back to 10.10 and then I couldn't even get flash to work right in 10.10 anymore.

I'm tempted to save things I know I have to save - pgp keys, virtual machines, downloads, etc., but then reinstall yet again letting it format the home partition this time.  If I still have problems after that then something far more deep is wrong.

Thanks!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-02
Ok, I backed up what I needed (though I forgot my Vm's dang it), then did a complete clean install of 11.10.  I deleted the old partitions then created new in a different sequence so I wouldn't have to worry about it somehow finding something.  This time for the install I was connected to the network and let it do the install of 3rd party and non-open source things.  Still had to go through restricted drivers to load the driver for my video card.  When that was all done I also ran an update to get something like 164 updates.  I thought, considering it SAYS SO, that by allowing the installation of the 3rd party and non-open source things at installation time it was also supposed to install flash player.  Yet now I get the box from Adobe telling me to get Adobe Flash player.  Maybe that's better than the writing saying the video is no longer available while the video plays behind it, but....obviously I still have no useful flash.

Are we just supposed to give up on using flash now???????????????

---

### Post by TunaCanTommy on 2011-11-02
Run flash-aid and when the script offers 'hardware-acceleration' (vdpau) un-tick the option.

It worked for me.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-03
Just tried that - same result.

Thanks anyway!

dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-03
I ran flash-aid again and un-ticked both options - things seem better now.  Most flash seems to play okay.  The ones that don't are directly linked off of Yahoo, and what I think is happening is the wait time is reaching a time out of some sort in flash so it says no longer available, but it plays it anyway because it showed up basically at the same time.  I think this is what is happening and why flash seems to get confused and abort in those cases.  Can't find anything in the logs, but I'm sure it has to be aborting as when I try to close the firefox window that has the flash problem, the window suddenly goes gray for many many seconds and the entire PC is unresponsive during that time.  This is on a quad-core PC with 4 gb of memory.

So, for now I'm going to mark this as solved, and go hunting for any hidden tuning parameters to the flash player.

Thanks everyone for your help, and your patience!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-03
It's most definitely a timing problem on the download and seems to be only with Yahoo!.  I suspect that when they specify the download the download timeout is too short to allow for things like a really lousy DSL connection like I have.  What's interesting is in their handling - it times out to give the error (i.e., some timer or trigger is tripped) but doesn't stop the download at that point.  So, the timing trigger causes the display of the text while the downloading continuing allows for the video to run behind the text.

This is what seems to be going on.  I've tried looking for parameters for flash, and it would appear that what I am looking for (time-out) is not a global flash thing, but rather on each request for a flash file.

When I go to other sites, even if they have to download, flash works ok.  For those pages with the flash window that appears to be doing an async download as the window is loading, flash works perfectly.

Hence why I have decided it is something to do with Yahoo! and some sort of time out timer or trigger they are using and the handling of that timer or trigger.

Dave ;)

---

