---
title: "8.10 upgrade downloading extremely slow"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by HyperHacker on 2008-11-02
I'm installing it from the update manager and the download speed is hovering around 20k/s, sometimes as low as 500b/s. Updates usually download at close to 500k/s. Is this normal? Is there a faster way to upgrade?

---

### Post by aramadia on 2008-11-02
First check with speedtest.net and confirm your download speed.  Otherwise the server you are using could be loaded.  Try switching your download server System->Administration->Software Sources->"Download from" and pick another server.

---

### Post by Bios Element on 2008-11-02
No to all of the above. The problem is the servers are no doubt getting hammered by people all downloading files. So really the only thing i could suggest is to try again in a few hours or leave it alone overnight.

EDIT: Not no to armadia's post, >.> Posted as i was typing.

---

### Post by HyperHacker on 2008-11-02
Can I download the install disc from BitTorrent and use it to upgrade?

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-11-02
> **HyperHacker said:**
> Can I download the install disc from BitTorrent and use it to upgrade?

Yes you can download Intrepid from a torrent.

---

### Post by aramadia on 2008-11-02
yep

---

### Post by eolson on 2008-11-02
+3 on the bittorent .... most of the regular servers are hammered.   At least one of them has a message that it's full and to try again later.   Seems 8.10 is pretty popular.

---

### Post by rage-against-windows on 2008-11-02
I started my update at 7pm Thursday night and by 1AM friday morning the update was complete and installed. The servers are all jammed right now Im sure. Like Bios Element posted, start it before you go to sleep, by the time you get up it should be done.

---

### Post by HyperHacker on 2008-11-02
> **Codename said:**
> Yes you can download Intrepid from a torrent.How do I use the install disc to upgrade?

---

