---
title: "I/O devices"
date: 2012-08-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by linuxguy049 on 2012-08-25
Hey all ):P

How exactly do we manage devices such as bluetooth or webcam?

I looked through /dev/input/by-id, and found a "usb-6047B0025201A0114329N_HP_Webcam-101-event-if00" file. I can't seem to edit it, I'm assuming because I'm not root. So I tried using

```
gksudo /dev/input/by-id/usb-6047B0025201A0114329N_HP_Webcam-101-event-if00
```

but nothing opened, like usually happens when I gksudo a file. I had planned to just edit it.

Two questions: 

1) What exactly is the "by-id" folder? I can't seem to find it in google. 

2) How can I configure input devices like a bluetooth mic or webcam?

Thx. :D

---

### Post by Cheesehead on 2012-08-25
How you "configure" hardware depends on the hardware, the kernel module (driver) that controls interaction with that hardware, the udev rule that assigns the hardware to a specific interface/port/socket, and the settings of whatever application you are trying to use with the hardware.

Work the issue methodically.

1) Plug the USB device in.
2) Wait a few seconds, then look at the last 5 lines of /var/log/dmesg and /var/log/syslog.
   Was the item recognized properly? Was it assigned a device entry in /dev/ ? Were there any warnings or errors? Is the result different if you try the USB device in a different USB port?
3) Try the command: [FONT="Courier New"]lsusb -v[/FONT]  . Look for the item's entry. Is it identified correctly? Are any drivers associated with it?
4) Go into the application you want to use, preferably from the terminal so you can see error messages. Check the settings. Is it looking for the right device in /dev/?

---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2012-08-25
Things in /dev are representations of hardware. You generally don't interact with them unless you want to do something very low level. For example /dev/sda provides block level access to the first hard-drive found on your system /dev/sda1 gives access to edit the first partition on that first drive.

These are not things to mess with unless you know why you are messing with them.

I'd presume that the /dev... webcam location you found would just produce the binary stream from your cam if you could tap into it. Not something you can edit - it's the flow of data generated by your cam.

What are you trying to achieve?

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-08-26
> **linuxguy049 said:**
> How exactly do we manage devices such as bluetooth or webcam?

What exactly do you mean by "manage devices"?  

These days, I would expect both to work fine out-of-the-box.  You might need to install software to act as a user interface for these devices, though.

---

### Post by linuxguy049 on 2012-08-26
Sorry, I should have been more clear.

> the settings of whatever application you are trying to use with the hardware.

This. 

I've got an integrated webcam, and a bluetooth headset which I have yet to try.

How do I manage them, with regards to settings and such? The webcam works, but I can't make any changes to it. 

Right now it's not a big deal, because I don't use my webcam. But I'd like to know, for future understanding.

---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2012-08-26
Have a look in the Software Centre for Camorama. That can control settings such as Brightness, Hue, Saturation etc.

Cheese Webcam Booth is another popular application that can do the same thing as well as apply a whole raft of effects. Again you can find it in the Software Centre or from command line:

```
sudo apt-get install cheese
```

I've no experience with bluetooth so I'll leave that for someone else :D

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-08-26
I agree with cryptotheslow.  Before you adjust the "settings of whatever application you are trying to use with the hardware", you have to choose "whatever application you are trying to use with the hardware".  ;)

Adjusting settings for the hardware by manually editing files may be possible, but it's not necessary, and doesn't really fit the description "Absolute Beginner Talk".

---

### Post by linuxguy049 on 2012-08-26
> **newb85 said:**
>   Before you adjust the "settings of whatever application you are trying to use with the hardware", you have to choose "whatever application you are trying to use with the hardware".  ;)



Well that's what I'm wondering.

With Windoze, it's usually either a utility that installs when you attach hardware, or windows not only supports it, but also has an application which can control it. (I'm assuming this is because of the difference between the kernels.)

Thanks for the tips guys! I was a little worried that I'd have to manually change configurations for my devices, what with there being so many DIFFERENT types of devices.

---

