---
title: "v10.04 show stoppers ..."
date: 2010-05-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cwmoser on 2010-05-24
Trying to install v10.04 Ubuntu Studio in a fresh partition.
Wanting to go from 9.04 to 10.04.
Have my /home in partition /dev/sda3
Jaunty 9.04 is in /dev/sda1
I put Ubuntu Studio 10.04 in /dev/sda4


**_Here are some road blocks:_**

[LIST=1]
[*]- No sound
[*]- Samba is now samba4 - i.e. **/etc/init.d/samba4 restart** but the smb.conf file I have is incompatible.  Example:  writable, public, guest ok, etc are not allowed.smb.conf
[*]- **sudo dpkg --set-selections < installed-software** does not work.
[/LIST]

Carl

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-05-25
Samba 3 is still in the repositories, If you don't need any of the features included in Samba 4, I'd roll back to an older version.

Is your sound card detected? have you tried alsa-mixer in a terminal to make sure the volume levels are turned up.

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2010-05-25
Thanks.  Did not know about Samba 4.  What are the pros of going with Samba 4?  

When I enter alsa-mixer at the command prompt, its gives me "command not found".

Sound worked perfectly and without any problems in Ubuntu 7.04, 8.04, and 9.04.

Carl



> **cariboo907 said:**
> Samba 3 is still in the repositories, If you don't need any of the features included in Samba 4, I'd roll back to an older version.

Is your sound card detected? have you tried alsa-mixer in a terminal to make sure the volume levels are turned up.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-25
> **cwmoser said:**
> When I enter alsa-mixer at the command prompt, its gives me "command not found".

Carl

alsa-mixer
No command 'alsa-mixer' found, did you mean:
 Command '**[COLOR="Red"]alsamixer[/COLOR]**' from package 'alsa-utils' (main)
alsa-mixer: command not found

No -

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2010-05-28
I went ahead and just installed the vanilla Ubuntu 10.04 64-bit version over top of Ubuntu Studio.  It installed just fine but it clobbered my Grub and thusly my prior 9.04 boot capability.  Super Grub would not recover Grub.  When I mounted my 9.04 partition, it looked like an old Windows hard drive I have.  I'm guessing the UID's got scrogged.

I recovered by reverting to a clone of my hard drive that I had made with Clonzilla -- that you Clonezilla.

This Ubuntu 10.04 to me is one of the more troublesome ones thus far.  In addition, I had these irritants: 
[LIST=1]
[*]There was no sound - never had this problem before
[*]Ubuntu Studio did not have Open Office - now that is a must have program, along with GIMP
[*]Samba - Samba 4 was incompatible with my smb.conf file.
[*]Bulk reinstall of packages would not work - i.e. this command failed with Ubuntu 10.04:  $ [COLOR="DarkRed"]sudo dpkg --set-selections < installed-software[/COLOR]
[*]GRUB - my grub got goofed up.
[/LIST]

All the above and I have not really gotten in to completely configuring my new 10.04 instance.  On a positive note, I will say that Cross Over worked, Compiz worked, Open Office did work after I manually installed it in Studio.

I've retreated back to BASE0 with my 9.04 version.  I'm very thankful for pre-planning with a BACKUP and for those great tools CLONEZILLA and GPARTED.  My backup and those utilities gives me confidence to revisit another attempt at 10.04 when I get some free time.

Oh well.

Carl

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-05-28
Sorry to hear your having so much trouble with Lucid Lynx. Honestly to me it's made me regain my interest in Ubuntu Linux over Debian (I used Debian for all of Karmic, Karmic was an epic failure in my opinion) A couple of quick ideas though why not back everything up on Jaunty and do an entire clean installation of Lucid rewrite everything ((Make sure you back everything up though)) I've noticed sometimes with different Ubuntu distributions that upgrading it simply doesn't work well even if you have correct partitions I've just gotten into the habit of backing up my files and doing a clean install for every release.

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2010-05-28
I didn't do an upgrade, instead I created a new partition (/dev/sda4) and installed 10.04 in that hoping that it would leave my old instance in /dev/sda1 alone.  I was hoping in this way that I would still have menu selections for the old instance and the new instance.

I have my /home in a separate partition (/dev/sda3).  I think when I attack this again, I'm going to use Clonezilla to clone my hard drive and then go give vanilla Ubuntu 10.04 a go over Ubuntu Studio. 

What troubles me is that this command would not work:
**sudo dpkg --set-selections < installed-software **

Carl

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-28
> **cwmoser said:**
> 
What troubles me is that this command would not work:
**sudo dpkg --set-selections < installed-software **

Carl

Can you post the error it spits out?

You might need to do this first. From the man page.
```
--clear-selections
              Set  the  requested  state of every non-essential package to deinstall.  This is intended to be used immedi&#8208;
              ately before --set-selections, to deinstall any packages not in list given to --set-selections.
```
As suggested here.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475483](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475483)

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2010-05-28
I do remember trying that command with Ubuntu Studio installation:  **sudo dpkg --clear-selections**

Also tried **sudo apt-get update**

I'm trying this with the 64-bit version - perhaps that is the issue.

Carl

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-05-28
> **cwmoser said:**
> I didn't do an upgrade, instead I created a new partition (/dev/sda4) and installed 10.04 in that hoping that it would leave my old instance in /dev/sda1 alone.  I was hoping in this way that I would still have menu selections for the old instance and the new instance.

I have my /home in a separate partition (/dev/sda3).  I think when I attack this again, I'm going to use Clonezilla to clone my hard drive and then go give vanilla Ubuntu 10.04 a go over Ubuntu Studio. 

What troubles me is that this command would not work:
**sudo dpkg --set-selections < installed-software **

Carl

Honestly, I haven't heard real good thinks about the Studio spin for Lucid I personally think its the real a time kernel thats causing most of the problems seems second rate to the solid kernel (usually) in Ubuntu/Debian

---

