---
title: "10.04 Bad Sectors"
date: 2011-10-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Agastya Sen on 2011-10-06
Hi,    I recently Installed Ubuntu 10.04.The disk utility is reporting 4 bad sector count.The HP smart tools diagnostic is reporting the disk to be healthy.  When I did a bad blocks check using sudo badblocks -v /dev/sda its showing 0 bad blocks found.    Is my disk really failing? My bad sector count seems to be gradually increasing.It was 2 sectors last week now its 4.   Thanks, Agastya

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-10-06
Hi and welcome to the forums :)

I would definitely recommend that you start preparing for the worst by making full backups of all important data.

As to why there is a discrepancy between the results shown by the disk utilities I cannot say, but I would err on the side of caution and make backups in your situation.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2011-10-06
I second that. I don't know that there is much you can do but take the warning seriously (do backups) and observe how things develope. If the drive really is dying, I don't know of anything that can save it. All you can do is make sure your data is safe. :(

edit: 2 things:Firstly,  I'd be inclined to believe the manufacturers own tool before a 3rd. party utility, but don't know if that is really the right way round.
Second, I actually was sure that the data shown in the disk utility is the same SMART data that something like the HP smart tools reads out. Odd, if that is the case, that they are turning up differing results.

---

### Post by BruceCM on 2011-10-06
Wow, that's very similar to what's just happened to me! With Ubuntu 11.04 & I didn't do the terminal check. But hard drive died pretty quickly after that started, so.... Fortunately, I do always back up anything important, having being told about that & finding out how quickly things can go badly wrong. Not being an expert, myself, I'm just sharing my little experience here. Hope that's OK & understood?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-10-06
There were known problems with the Linux app MIS-Reporting bad sectors -- which scared a LOT of folks, thinking their hard drives were failing.

I had heard that these problems had been fixed with more recent versions of the app, so that now, these false messages don't appear anymore.

The BEST source of drive health is to run a utility provided by the hard disk vendor -- but usually, those only run in Windows.

If you have the option of physically removing the drive, connecting it to a Windows PC and running such a utility, that will at least give you a more reliable reading on the status of the drive.

Short of that, you should follow the advice of others and do some backups.

---

### Post by Agastya Sen on 2011-10-07
Hi,  Thanks all for your replies.  I did  call up HP support desk.They indicated since the HP dignostics tools are not reporting any errors the drive must be health so it won't be replaced :(.  I will get a external disk and take up a back up as suggested and just wait and see how things turn out.  Thanks, Agastya

---

