---
title: ".us web addresses-a question"
date: 2012-11-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Greylocks on 2012-11-28
Not sure if this is the right place to ask this but thought it would at least be a start.

When I was in college in the late 1990's I had a professor who said that everyone was entitled to a web address, and that all one had to do was to claim it.  I can't seem to find any info about this even using the all knowing Google.  I thought that perhaps someone here might know what I was speaking about.  These addresses were kind of cryptic, for example:  [http://ms.ha.md.us/~username](http://ms.ha.md.us/~username)  This would be for someone located in the state of Maryland.  In, I suppose, the town of Haggerstown. 

 If anyone knows of or remembers these addresses (website-web address) please let me know where one can claim it, or if perhaps it has went the way of the dodo.

Thanks Greylocks

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-11-28
> **Greylocks said:**
> Not sure if this is the right place to ask this but thought it would at least be a start.

When I was in college in the late 1990's I had a professor who said that everyone was entitled to a web address, and that all one had to do was to claim it.  I can't seem to find any info about this even using the all knowing Google.  I thought that perhaps someone here might know what I was speaking about.  These addresses were kind of cryptic, for example:  [http://ms.ha.md.us/~username](http://ms.ha.md.us/~username)  This would be for someone located in the state of Maryland.  In, I suppose, the town of Haggerstown. 

 If anyone knows of or remembers these addresses (website-web address) please let me know where one can claim it, or if perhaps it has went the way of the dodo.

Thanks Greylocks

Did he mean the college domain as in like your example ?

If not then yes you can but you need to pay the Internic, Godaddy, Fatcow etc for your name if its available ;-)

Anyone can have a domain name, but you need to pay a registrar for it or a service which offers it bundled or sometimes you can get free domain names as sign ups to stuff etc and wont necessarily be exactly what you want.

example: [http://www.domain.me.pn/](http://www.domain.me.pn/)

---

### Post by lisati on 2012-11-28
As haqking mentioned, you can register a domain name. There is often a cost with this. 

The "~username" part is handled by the web server that hosts the domain name: if you're using apache to serve your web site, this can be achieved with its [public_html]("http://kimbriggs.com/computers/computer-notes/linux-notes/apache2-public_html-virtual-directories.file") option.

Services like no-ip and dyndns offer free subdomains, which work a little bit differently, but the basic idea is similar.

I have a couple of (sub)domains at [dyn.com]("http://dyn.com") and [no-ip.com]("http://no-ip.com") - the "What on earth is a lisati?" link in my sig uses one of the dyn.com domains. Strictly speaking, the lisati.homelinux.com thing is more properly called a subdomain, but we don't need to worry too much about the difference at the moment. I also have registered (and paid for) a couple of "regular" domains, but in the interests of not spamming the forum......

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-11-28
It is possible to register just a domain name (for a fee), but it's useless unless it's hosted somewhere.  That's where things like GoDaddy, etc., really come in - they host your domain for a fee.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-11-28
GMX mail offers accounts with .us, .com, .uk, and others so subscribers can have accounts in different domains. When my brother was teaching at one college he had very strange email address like you are describing.

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-11-28
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> GMX mail offers accounts with .us, .com, .uk, and others so subscribers can have accounts in different domains. When my brother was teaching at one college he had very strange email address like you are describing.

yes i think the OP's professor was referring to the domain of the institution and the user can have there own personal domain as part of that along with email etc.

Whenever you go some type of .ac or .edu you end up with some weird institution email etc if you choose to use it, most people use outside domains i suspect such as gmail or gmx these days, it was useful back in the day.

---

### Post by Greylocks on 2012-11-28
> **haqking said:**
> 
Whenever you go some type of .ac or .edu you end up with some weird institution email etc if you choose to use it, most people use outside domains i suspect such as gmail or gmx these days, it was useful back in the day.

Wow great responses guys and gals and thanks again.  Yes I believe what I was seeking has become a has been.  It has been 20 years after all. LOL  Was just a passing thought that I was pursuing. and again I appreciate everyone trying to help I'll mark this thread solved and more on to other problems, goodness knows I have a knack for finding them.

Greylocks

---

