---
title: "NO lOwercase Os."
date: 2008-07-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kdw008 on 2008-07-02
Hi all, fOr sOme reasOn I can Only type uppercase Os.

I had installed Emerald Theme Manager and set One Of the themes by pressing alt + F2 and typing emerald --replace. I alsO played arOund with cOlOurs Of my backgrOund and text, and then my Os stOpped wOrking. I was nOt messing with keybOard settings Or cOmmands.

I tried gOing tO System --> Preferences --> KeybOard and resetting the default, and I have restarted twice. My lOgin has an O in it, and I can type it there, but Once I get tO my desktOp, I run intO this prOblem.

SOmeOne please help, it is annOying having tO cOpy and paste lOwercase Os Or having tO capitalise them all!

:confused:

---

### Post by brian_p on 2008-07-02
> **kdw008 said:**
> Hi all, fOr sOme reasOn I can Only type uppercase Os.

I really don't know but what happens if you drop into a terminal session and log in? Alt Fn F1 should do it. Keep the Alt key depressed and press one of the function keys.

---

### Post by dominiquec on 2008-07-02
Please forgive me for saying so, but this is the funniest genuine post for help I've seen in a while.:lolflag:

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-07-02
Take a look at the output of this command and see what the value is for lower case "o". It's probably keycode 32. Does it show "o" ? If it doesn't, please tell us the keycode on your machine.
```
xmodmap -pke
```

---

### Post by tompickles on 2008-07-02
> **dominiquec said:**
> Please forgive me for saying so, but this is the funniest genuine post for help I've seen in a while.:lolflag:

sorry - me too :D

---

### Post by brian_p on 2008-07-02
> **tompickles said:**
> sorry - me too :D

ThAt's thE prOblEm with thE wOrld tOdAy - pEOplE likE yOu twO! NO sympAthy At All. Just wAit until it hAppEns tO yOu. ThEsE things ArE likEly tO sprEAd.

---

### Post by tompickles on 2008-07-02
likely to spread to your E's too?! sorry - it it mildly funny.

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2008-07-02
Post the contents of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by kdw008 on 2008-07-02
It works when I run Windows, so I wonder if Vista is getting jealous! Haha.

I would find it funny, too! I suppose I need to learn a lot more about Linux...pasting my lowercase vowels one at a time!


> **brian_p said:**
> I really don't know but what happens if you drop into a terminal session and log in? Alt Fn F1 should do it. Keep the Alt key depressed and press one of the function keys.

NOthing happens when I press Alt + Fn + and Of the functiOn keys. 


> **drs305 said:**
> Take a look at the output of this command and see what the value is for lower case "o". It's probably keycode 32. Does it show "o" ? If it doesn't, please tell us the keycode on your machine.
```
xmodmap -pke
```

keycode  32 = o O



> **Titan8990 said:**
> Post the contents of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by Dr Small on 2008-07-02
This is the most confusing mess I have whitnessed in a while :D

---

### Post by ChameleonDave on 2008-07-02
> **kdw008 said:**
> Hi all, fOr sOme reasOn I can Only type uppercase Os.


:confused:

Is it 1st April already?

---

### Post by unutbu on 2008-07-02
Perhaps go to System>Administratio>Users and Groups,
create a new user, log out, log in as the new user, and see if you can type 'o'.

If you can, at least we will have narrowed down the problem to some file in your ~/home directory.

If you can't, then at least we'll know it is a system-wide config file that is messed up.

---

### Post by kdw008 on 2008-07-02
It will not let me create a new user...?

---

### Post by unutbu on 2008-07-02
Reboot. Press ESC to get to the grub menu. Select "Recovery mode". This should drop you to a root shell.
Can you type 'o' there? 

Type
```
adduser [select a name]
passwd [same name]
```
Enter a passwd.

Type 
```
exit
```
to logout. I think the machine will then try to reboot. 

Boot back to (ab)normal Ubuntu. Try logging in as the new user. 
Can you type 'o' as the new user?

---

### Post by kdw008 on 2008-07-02
Yes! The Os show up here!

---

### Post by unutbu on 2008-07-02
Great! Now we know the problem is somewhere in your dot config files/directories. Let's see if the problem is in ~/.gconf/desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard:

```
mv ~/.gconf/desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard ~/.gconf/desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard-orig
```

(Just cut and paste). Log out, then log back in.
GNOME will create a new keyboard directory if it needs to. 

Can you type 'o' now?

If the above suggestion does not work, to restore your original keyboard directory:
Cut and paste:

```
cd ~/.gconf/desktop/gnome/peripherals    # change directory
rm -rf keyboard                          # remove the keyboard directory
mv keyboard-orig keyboard                # move the original keyboard dir back to its original name
```

---

### Post by kdw008 on 2008-07-03
Does that command move things? (Sorry I am so new at this.) I did that, but still no lowercase O.

Would it be better to delete this account and start over?

---

### Post by ChameleonDave on 2008-07-03
> **kdw008 said:**
> Does that command move things? (Sorry I am so new at this.) I did that, but still no lowercase O.

Would it be better to delete this account and start over?
To see the documentation for a command, do this at the terminal:

```
**man** *mv*
```

Don't delete your profile just yet.  Even if we are totally unable to find which file is the culprit, before deleting your profile you should salvage any important files from it, such as your Firefox profile or whatever.

---

### Post by unutbu on 2008-07-03
kdw008, please log in to your old account, open a terminal and cut and paste
```

cat ~/.xsession-errors
```
Please post the output.

---

### Post by kdw008 on 2008-07-03
This is it...

thekdot@thekdot-laptop:~$ cat ~/.xsession-errors
/etc/gdm/Xsession: Beginning session setup...
Setting IM through im-switch for locale=en_US.
Start IM through /etc/X11/xinit/xinput.d/all_ALL linked to /etc/X11/xinit/xinput.d/default.
SESSION_MANAGER=local/thekdot-laptop:/tmp/.ICE-unix/18079
ALSA lib control.c:909:(snd_ctl_open_noupdate) Invalid CTL front:0
ALSA lib control.c:909:(snd_ctl_open_noupdate) Invalid CTL front:0
Shutdown failed or nothing to shut down.
xrdb:  "*Label.background" on line 220 overrides entry on line 150
xrdb:  "*Text.background" on line 226 overrides entry on line 191
xrdb:  "*Label.foreground" on line 232 overrides entry on line 151
xrdb:  "*Text.foreground" on line 238 overrides entry on line 192
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 01:00.0 0300: 10de:0427 (rev a1) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Comparing resolution (1280x800) to maximum 3D texture size (8192): Passed.
Checking for nVidia: present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
seahorse nautilus module initialized
Initializing nautilus-share extension


Tracker version 0.6.6 Copyright (c) 2005-2007 by Jamie McCracken (jamiemcc@gnome.org)

This program is free software and comes without any warranty.
It is licensed under version 2 or later of the General Public License which can be viewed at [http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt)

Initialising tracker...
Could not set idle IO priority...attempting best effort 7 priority
starting HAL detection for ac adaptors...found /org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/computer_power_supply_ac_adapter_ADP1
Throttle level is 5
11
evolution-alarm-notify-Message: Setting timeout for 29608 1215129600 1215099992
evolution-alarm-notify-Message:  Thu Jul  3 19:00:00 2008

evolution-alarm-notify-Message:  Thu Jul  3 10:46:32 2008


** (nautilus:18169): WARNING **: Unable to add monitor: Not supported
Error: Screen isn't composited. Please run compiz (-fusion) or another compositing manager.

** (nm-applet:18258): CRITICAL **: nmu_security_serialize_leap: assertion `key_mgmt != NULL' failed
/usr/bin/compiz.real (video) - Warn: No 8 bit GLX pixmap format, disabling YV12 image format
I/O warning : failed to load external entity "/home/thekdot/.compiz/session/default0"
Starting gtk-window-decorator
Screen is composited.
LOADED : /usr/share/applications/gnome-terminal.desktop
LOADED : /usr/share/applications/firefox.desktop
LOADED : /usr/share/applications/pidgin.desktop
APPLET : /usr/lib/awn/applets/taskman.desktop
Launched application : 18382
** Message: GetValue variable 1 (1)
** Message: GetValue variable 2 (2)
** Message: GetValue variable 1 (1)
** Message: GetValue variable 2 (2)
** Message: GetValue variable 1 (1)
** Message: GetValue variable 2 (2)
** Message: GetValue variable 1 (1)
** Message: GetValue variable 2 (2)
** Message: GetValue variable 1 (1)
** Message: GetValue variable 2 (2)
** Message: GetValue variable 1 (1)
** Message: GetValue variable 2 (2)
  PID TTY          TIME CMD
18149 ?        00:00:00 pulseaudio
Launched application : 18471

---

### Post by unutbu on 2008-07-03
Let's try moving some dot configuration directories again, but this time cast a bigger net. Note: After you do this, you will have to re-do your other desired GNOME settings.
```

Log out                              # So GNOME isn't messing with your dot configuration directories
Press Ctrl-Alt-F2                    # Get to a text terminal
Login
mv ~/.config ~/.config-orig          # We're going for it whole hog now
mv ~/.gconf ~/.gconf-orig            # Nothing shall survive
mv ~/.gnome ~/.gnome-orig            # Squash the little gnomes
mv ~/.gnome2 ~/.gnome2-orig          # Squash the big gnomes
exit

Press Ctrl-Alt-F7                    # Get back to gdm
Login
```
Does it work now?

If it doesn't work, to regain your old settings:
```

Log out                              
Press Ctrl-Alt-F2                    
Login
mv ~/.config-orig ~/.config          
mv ~/.gconf-orig ~/.gconf            
mv ~/.gnome-orig ~/.gnome            
mv ~/.gnome2-orig ~/.gnome2          
exit
Press Ctrl-Alt-F7                    
Login 

```

If this works for you, leave the old GNOME dot config directories alone for a week. If you are still confident you don't need them, then feel free to delete .config-orig, .gconf-orig, .gnome-orig and .gnome2-orig.

---

### Post by kdw008 on 2008-07-03
Oh thank *goodness*, it works!! Aah! Thank you so much!

---

### Post by estyles on 2008-07-03
*golf-clap* Well done!  That's got to be the funniest problem I've seen in a while.  And weird.  Oh nOes, nOW *my* Os dOn't wOrk...  =)

---

### Post by kdw008 on 2008-07-03
It was rather amusing, even if a bit perplexing. :p It was just unfortunate that it was a vowel. I bet I would not have said anything for a while if it were my Z!

---

### Post by cooljeff3000 on 2008-08-21
err...
I'm no doctor, but it looks like YOU have a case of the not-replacing-pc105-to-pc103-just-to-check-out-what-happens!

---

### Post by LostAndDelerious on 2008-08-21
> **tompickles said:**
> sorry - me too :D

LOL! :lolflag:

---

