---
title: "ddrescue - general and specific help"
date: 2014-04-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by maoklein on 2014-04-02
hello,
I've been reading many tutorials -- more like skimming through -- on linux and ddrescue related subjects and i'm at my wits end.
First, apart from setting up a live CD to run firmware updates and secu-erase on my sdd, my experience with linux is non-existent. I do believe that my question are simple enough and most likely cringe worthy for any experienced linux user, but after hitting so many block walls on stuff that should've been intuitive an straightforward, I decided to ask for help.

Second, what I'm trying to do:
recover data from an external hd (250gb, usb 2.0) that was being used on a mac (hfs+);
it was quick formatted under windows;
and not only that, it's also failing with many i/o errors, bad sectors and whatnot.

The drive isn't mine... my cousin dropped this hot potato on my hands asking if I could do anything about it -- btw, I also have no experience with mac's neither.

My first problem is that I still couldn't figure out how to make a folder under linux. And I used 'folder' to emphasize my windows user perspective. I even tried to use samba [smbclient -smbfs] to make use of a folder tree structured under windows but that also failed [returning bad_host_name... to which after researching to find out how to change to root user, after reading one freaking lenghty tutorial, in the very last paragraph the magic words "sudo su"... but that didn't work neither, because even after setting "setsebool..._home_dirs=1, to which I needed yet another program, it kept on failing]. *on a different note, I'm currently with a single desktop, so, I'm rebooting to search for each one of this specific commands.

ddrescue version 12.04/usb live CD
the external hd is /dev/sdd
I also made one ntfs part on my d: drive, e: with 300gb to image the faulty hd /dev/sdb2


what am I doing wrong here?
```

sudo mkdir /recover
sudo mkdir -p /recover/image
sudo mkdir -p /recover/log

sudo mount /dev/sdb2 /recover


```

if this were under windows, it would be something like e:\recover\image and e:\recover\log
one folder to hold the disk image rescued from ddrescue and one for the log -- but I couldn't make this work, it returns one "can't mount, already mounted" error... and so I tried to mount at least the recover folder
```

sudo mkdir /recover
sudo mount /dev/sdb2 /recover

```

success, but then I couldn't use it with ddrescue... so the transfer is messing the ntfs partition and I can't do much under windows - photorec didn't have any problem to access the disk, but I wish I could've seen the .log at least
upon some more reading I found the hint to enclose the file names under quotes

ddrescue returning "too many files" error
```

sudo ddrescue -d -r3 /dev/sdd /dev/sdb2 /recover/image/hfs.image /recover/log/hfs.log

sudo ddrescue -d -r3 /dev/sdd /dev/sdb2 /recover/hfs.image /recover/hfs.log

sudo ddrescue -d -r3 /dev/sdd /dev/sdb2 "/recover/hfs.image" "/recover/hfs.log"

sudo ddrescue -d -r3 /dev/sdd /dev/sdb2 "/recover/hfs.image" "/recover/hfs.log


```

the third code was an input error, notice the lack of quotes at the end. I could make the program to start this way but then it hang.
what brings me to yet another issue, I still couldn't use the image making option. I did 3 runs already but in none I was able to use something like this (also tried .dmg and .img):

```

sudo ddrescue -d -r3 /dev/sdd /dev/sdb2 hfs.image hfs.log

```

I don't know if the image is generated by default (i.e., there's no need for an option, if there's an input error, or if it's just mocking me)
notice that I already gave up on that folder making thing...

the only way I could make it work...
```

sudo ddrescue -d -r3 /dev/sdd /dev/sdb2 hfs.log

```


another quirk. lshw returns only
```

/dev/sdd

```

but lsblk returns
```


/dev/sdd
       &#8735;/dev/sdd   partition 0 232 gb
       &#8735;/dev/sdd1  partition 1 232 gb


```

So far this is the stuff I couldn't wrap my head around yet, and I just cancelled one scan that was going for some 48 hours [slightly diff options: ddrescue -d -f /dev/sdd...] to figure out my mistakes first and i'm planning on leaving it running over the weekend. Also I wasn't entirely sure if I'd be able to put the scans I managed to make to use because I couldn't verify if ddrescue logs were being generated -- and I know we loose everything from a live CD section --, anyway I already reformatted my e: drive on a rage fit... so...

Anyway, since I'm already here I'd like to take the opportunity to ask for some advice on the steps I intend to take after I clear my noobness and get this going properly. I honestly can't remember from which tutorial I took this commands nor why, but I did mark one big asterisk on them and scratched the others I had scribbled down...

```

ddrescue -f -n /dev/sdd /dev/sdb2 imagefile logfile
ddrescue -d -f /dev/sdd /dev/sdb2 imagefile logfile
**hfsplus(?)** -v -f /dev/sdd /dev/sdb2 imagefile logfile
mount -t hfsplus -o ro /dev/sdb2 /mnt

(I wish I could figure out howto: parentfolder/imagefolder/image.image /parentfolder/logfolder/log.log)


```

If I get this done -- and I know i'm looking at 1 week + of scanning --, I plan to use photorec under windows to hopefully recover some data from that image. (What reminds me... should I be using .dmg for the image extension... I''ve seen so many instances for it that I'm not sure if they even matter: .image, .dmg, .img and so on).
the hfsplus command in bold, should substitute the 'ext2' that was on that particular tutorial -- I can recall as much. And I did try it with that partial scan I had. But then it asked me to apt-get hmount, which I did, but it failed.

Thanks to anyone who made through this. But it amounts to nothing more than a couple of very noobish questions. Truth be told I can't stand another lenghty and useless reading on this subject to figure out just one simple command, but I'll be happy as a puppy if you point me to the right tutorials.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-04-03
I have not used ddrescue, but your command has three paths & path to log, but command shows only two paths (infile & outfile) and path to log?

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DataRecovery](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DataRecovery)

sudo ddrescue -r 3 /dev/sda /media/usbdrive/image /media/usbdrive/logfile

see also man ddrescue.

---

### Post by maoklein on 2014-04-03
not exactly sure if you're talking about this...

```

sudo mkdir /recover
sudo mkdir -p /recover/log
sudo mkdir -p /recover/image

sudo mount /dev/sdb2 /recover


```

when you say 3 paths does that mean that I can't make a folder tree which in windows would be analogous to:
(e:\recover; e:\recover\image; e:\recover\log)

```

e:\
 &#8735;recover
     &#8735;image
     &#8735;log


```

anyway, as I mentioned I couldn't set this up properly even with a single folder "/recover"
ddrescue onky ran w/o folders, and I couldn't name the image file.


EDIT:
Actually I believe I found my mistake -- one of them :D.
if I mount those folders @/dev/sdb2 (e.g.) then I must point the output files to the mounted folders (on which, /dev/sdb2 is already implied), correct?

```

[COLOR=#000000]sudo ddrescue -r 3 [/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000]/dev/sda [/COLOR][COLOR=#0000cd]/media/usbdrive/image /media/usbdrive/logfile[/COLOR]

and my mistake:

sudo ddrescue [COLOR=#ff0000]/dev/sdd[/COLOR] [COLOR=#008000]/dev/sdb2[/COLOR] [COLOR=#0000cd]/parentfolder/image.file /parentfolder/log.file
[/COLOR]
I thought ddrescue demanded:

sudo ddrescue [COLOR=#ff0000]/input/device[/COLOR] [COLOR=#008000]/output/device[/COLOR] [COLOR=#0000cd]/foldermounted/in_outputdevice/file.image[/COLOR] [COLOR=#0000cd]/foldermounted/in_outputdevice/file.log[/COLOR]


```
red = input file
blue = output folders
green = unnecessary input

another look at it and I found another misconception of mine:
```


sudo ddrescue [COLOR=#FF8C00]options[/COLOR] [COLOR=#FF0000]/input/device[/COLOR] [COLOR=#0000CD]/foldermounted/in_outputdevice_1/file.image[/COLOR] [COLOR=#40E0D0]/foldermounted/in_outputdevice_2/file.log
[/COLOR]
```

I believe the new color code is pretty self-explanatory. I just added the cyan to mark the log file as a different parameter than the image output

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-04-03
I have used ddrescue, and the info page is better than the man page. The info page is almost like a tutorial. Please read ```
info ddrescue
```

oldfred is right, the command line should be

```
sudo ddrescue source target log
```

only three items after ddrescue. If you have a big enough empty device, for example a USB drive, you can use it as target, and it will be easily available for the recovery tools after the cloning.

I recommend Example 1: of the info page:

```
Rescue a whole disc with two ext2 partitions in /dev/hda to
/dev/hdb.
Note: you do not need to partition /dev/hdb beforehand, but if the
partition table on /dev/hda is damaged, you'll need to recreate it
somehow on /dev/hdb.

     ddrescue -f -n /dev/hda /dev/hdb logfile
     ddrescue -d -f -r3 /dev/hda /dev/hdb logfile
     fdisk /dev/hdb
     e2fsck -v -f /dev/hdb1
     e2fsck -v -f /dev/hdb2

```

Notice that the cloning is done in two steps (two lines with ddrescue). The next three lines are 'only' examples what to do on the target drive.

---

### Post by maoklein on 2014-04-03
another thing,
when you use this as an example:

(...) /media/usbdrive/image /media/usbdrive/logfile

does that mean that one must always set up a folder structure like that, or am I reading too much into it?
Thinking about every example I saw carried that same structure, so my question is: if I were to mount a single folder at /dev/sdb2, for instance:

```

sudo mkdir /recover
mount /dev/sdb2 /recover

```

would I be unable to use it for some reason?
I mean, using your own example, if it were simply

(...) /media/image /media/logfile

would that be 'wrong' in some way?

----------------------------------

edit/errata
> **oldfred said:**
> 
mount /dev/sdb /recover

You did mean this?

mount /dev/sdb2 /recover



yes, gonna edit that out.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-04-03
mount /dev/sdb /recover

You did mean this?

 mount /dev/sdb2 /recover

And you may have to give yourself ownership & permissions, if you do not have them.
      
 sudo chmod -R a+rwX,o-w /recover
 sudo chown -R $USER:$USER /recover

It looks like then /recover is in / , so be very careful not to leave a space after the / in /recover or you totally change all ownership and permissions of entire system with the -R parameter. That can destroy system, so double check for typos.

I often create mounts in /mnt or /media, just so they are not at /.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-04-03
In this case I suggest that you should avoid making things complicated. Stay as close as possible to the example from the info page.

ddrescue works at a low level, 'clones' a device instead of copies a file in a file system. The source or target device should *not* be mounted while ddrescue does its job. If mounted the cloning might be corrupted by some file operation.

---

### Post by maoklein on 2014-04-03
> **sudodus said:**
> 

only three items after ddrescue.


I was under that impression initially, but literally every tutorial I read on ddrescue puts up a file.image parameter (in the same tone as my 5 year old color coding exemplified in blue).
I'm not entirely sure of what to think.

and another question, in the example you used, do know how I could change the ext2 partition to hfs+
I tried by guessing and it asked me to apt-get hmount, but I couldn't figure out the exact command line to invoke hfs+ partitions -- and even if it would work on a partition that was previously built on windows

[CODE]
**e2fsck** -v -f /dev/hdb1 
**e2fsck** -v -f /dev/hdb2

to

hfs+(???) -v -f /dev/hdb1

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-04-03
When I started using ddrescue I had a failing hard disk drive. I was adviced to use ddrescue. I read the info page ```
info ddrescue
```
several times to really understand it. And it worked. I could recover almost every sector of the failing drive, and I was lucky that nothing important was sitting in the very few bytes that were definitely impossible to read. ddrescue's two step method makes it possible to recover much of what is marked as bad sectors by other tools.

There is no indication of any ext2 partition. e2fsck is the name of a program that can check and repair ext file systems (ext2, ext3 and ext4) and today Ubuntu uses ext4. But those commands are only peripheral examples. Use another tool for a hfs file system. If it is a Mac file system, use Mac tools to repair it.

---

### Post by maoklein on 2014-04-03
I don't even know what I meant... :confused:
especially now that I found that / (slash) is a thing.

anyway, interpreting you post it's easy to infer that /media is also another 'thing'.
Pardon my usage of windowze lingo, but I think that's the only way I'll be able to express myself.

/dev/sdb2 is e: (which is a partition on my 750gb hd, that also has one d: partition. I set up e: (300gb) only for ddrescue)
I do believe that setting up folder to transfer the image is a sound practice - so windows will not try to mess up with it when the image transfer destroys the MBR (I know it's possible to config ddrescue to begin the transfer after a ceratin gap in sectors, but I'm not sure if it would work properly and setting up a folder should've been an easy enough job)

so, my plan was to set up
e:\recover
(ideally)
e:\recover\image
e:\recover\log
(but I'm suspecting linux don't work like this, anyway, anywho, I'd settle for one folder)

I though that in linux this would look like

/dev/sdb2 /recover
(after using mkdir to create recover and mount to mount it on /dev/sdb2)

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-04-03
It is getting late here, so I have to say good-night. I'll be be tomorrow and check if you still need help, or if you have solved your problem with help from other people. Anyway, take your time so that you *know* that you run the correct commands, and good luck :-)

---

### Post by maoklein on 2014-04-03
>know
I'll be pretty happy if I manage to get this done by dumb luck.

thank you for your time, anyway.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-04-04
It it possible to let the target of the rescue operation be a file in a partition. When you want to use the target to repair a file system or extract files, you should clone or flash it to a device, and work on that device.

I tried to tell you that if you use a device as a target (like it is in Example 1) you will get directly to a system, where you can repair a file system or extract files (instead of having to perform a next step, to clone or flash the target file to a device). But that means that you need another device or drive now, for example a USB drive of the same size as the original one or bigger.
These are the two crucial lines in Example 1:

     ```

ddrescue -f -n /dev/hda /dev/hdb logfile
ddrescue -d -f -r3 /dev/hda /dev/hdb logfile

```

Ubuntu uses sudo for superuser privileges, and is usually seeing drives as s-devices, not h-devices. Assuming the original drive, the source, is /dev/sda, and the target drive is /dev/sdc  and you have booted from /dev/sdb (a USB pendrive), it would be modified like this. 

```

sudo ddrescue -f -n /dev/sda /dev/sdc /path/logfile
sudo ddrescue -d -f -r3 /dev/sda /dev/sdc /path/logfile

```

If the boot drive is persistent, write the logfile to it. Otherwise write the logfile to a fourth device for example a USB pendrive. No partition on the source and target should be mounted.

---

