---
title: "8.04 Dual Boot  with Vista Has no Boot Menu"
date: 2008-05-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by zxcvbnm2 on 2008-05-18
I used the Ubuntu installer to resize one of my partitions and install on it.  It seemed to go well, but when I reboot it goes directly to Vista.

How do I set up a boot menu so I can choose which OS?

Thanks for any replies.

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2008-05-18
[http://neosmart.net/wiki/display/EBCD/Ubuntu]("http://neosmart.net/wiki/display/EBCD/Ubuntu")

---

### Post by zxcvbnm2 on 2008-05-18
So it looks like I have to start over.

I start playing around trying to dual boot Ubuntu and Vista several months ago, and I never got it to work.  I was hoping this new release finally had it worked out.

I think Ubuntu would be a lot more popular if it could be made to work alongside Vista on the same machine.  I have heard that some people have done it, but I can't get it to work, and as far as Windows is concerned I'm the guy who everybody comes to for help.  So I'm not a total dummy.

I know a lot of people give up Vista completely, but that is not possible on a family computer if the rest of the family doesn't want to switch.

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-05-18
So have you gone into the Grub menu and seen if there is Vista there?

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2008-05-18
as long as grub loaded to ubuntu partition all you need is to follow last part of the link i gave you

---

### Post by joshedmonds on 2008-05-18
Perserverance is the key. Perhaps you should read this post to see why a belief in yourself as a high-level Windows user may cause problems - an inability to use Linux 'out of the box' shouldn't reflect badly on Linux or your skills 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=58017](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=58017)

If the posts above haven't been helpful, please detail what happened when you attempted to edit the grub lst or installed EasyBCD.

---

### Post by akiratheoni on 2008-05-18
> **zxcvbnm2 said:**
> I think Ubuntu would be a lot more popular if it could be made to work alongside Vista on the same machine.  I have heard that some people have done it, but I can't get it to work, and as far as Windows is concerned I'm the guy who everybody comes to for help.  So I'm not a total dummy.

I know a lot of people give up Vista completely, but that is not possible on a family computer if the rest of the family doesn't want to switch.

For one, Windows knowledge is pretty much useless when it comes to Linux.

Also, I've reinstalled Vista and Ubuntu about two or three times, and one of those times I even added Fedora and Mandriva to the mix (for four OSes at once) and I have never had a problem with Vista and the other Linux OSes.

---

### Post by zxcvbnm2 on 2008-05-19
How can I do anything with grub on the Linux partition if I can't boot into Linux?  

Maybe I wasn't clear explaining the problem.  I have no way to start Ubuntu because when I turn on the computer Vista loads and I have no choice.

If I use the Live CD I still wouldn't know how to edit grub or do anything on the HD.  That's why I posted my question on the absolute beginner forum.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-05-19
Let's check your partitions, using the Live CD.

Applications > Accessories > Terminal

then type in this code:

```
sudo fdisk -l
``` Small L

paste the results of that code here.

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2008-05-19
if you look at the link I supplied is explains how to easily and graphically chain load from vista boot loader to grub.
It has both easy to follow instruction and screenshots

---

### Post by Wandering on 2008-05-19
As one of the posters has repeatedly suggested:

In Vista download and install EasyBCD.

In Vista run it, and add Ubuntu to the Vista MBR.

Save and exit EasyBCD.

Reboot, and you'll get a menu after the BIOS menu that will let you choose either system and defaults to Vista if you wait 20 seconds.

If you choose Ubuntu, it will take you to another menu, GRUB, that will let you choose to continue into Ubuntu or go back to Vista (Longhorn). It defaults to Ubuntu after 15 seconds.

Good luck.

---

### Post by zxcvbnm2 on 2008-05-19
Thanks again for the help.

I didn't immediately try EasyBCD because I was unsuccessful with the last time (I also tried another program for editing the Vista loader with similar results).

[I hope you can understand how discouraging it can get.  I recently spent a lot of time on the same problem, trying a lot of different things and, on that particular setup, I just couldn't get a boot menu to work.  This time, when no bootloader appeared I said Oh no, not again!]

But this is a different computer and the details of the installation are different as well, and I now feel that EasyBCD will probably work.  So I will try that first, and I will let you know how it goes.

Thanks again to everyone who replied.

---

### Post by zxcvbnm2 on 2008-05-19
BTW, The computer is in a different location from here and I may not get to it for a number of hours.

---

### Post by zxcvbnm2 on 2008-05-20
I tried EasyBCD, as was suggested.  

When adding the entry it shows a list of partitions and I chose the one it called "Linux native," which was the size of the Linux partition I created when installing Ubuntu.

There was a check box "Grub isn't installed to the bootsector."  I left it unchecked.

It didn't work.  

I went back and deleted that entry in EasyBCD, and created it again the same way, but this time I checked "Grub isn't installed to the bootsector."

This time I got a boot menu, but when I chose Ubuntu 8.04, which was at the top of the list, I got a "No such partition" error.

I don't know what else to try.

---

### Post by zxcvbnm2 on 2008-05-22
No replies?

People offer one suggestion (Easy BCD) which doesn't work, I get ignored?  

One guy basically called me a troll.

I posted my question again after this thread was ignored, and it was blocked somehow because it never showed up.

This is the great Linux community that I hear so much about?

After my own multiple attempts and after reading other people's experiences on this forum I must conclude that dual booting Ubuntu and Vista just doesn't work.  It worked with XP, and I think a lot of people here assume it will work with Vista based on that.  But if they actually tried it they will see it does not work.

---

### Post by meierfra. on 2008-05-22
I need some information to help you. Boot from the Ubuntu Live CD. Open a terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal)

Type

```
sudo fdisk -l
```
("l" is a lower case "L"

and post the output.

Next go to "Computer->Places" and double click  the icon for your ubuntu partition. Navigate to the folder /boot and then to /boot/grub.

Open the file "menu.lst" and post its content.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-05-22
I dunno how to fix it, but I've used the following brief tutorial several times with both 7.10 and 8.04 and had no problems:

[http://apcmag.com/how_to_dualboot_vista_with_linux_vista_installed_first.htm](http://apcmag.com/how_to_dualboot_vista_with_linux_vista_installed_first.htm)

I now do things a bit differently as I've grown more comfortable with manual partitioning etc.

Both of these tutorials are also excellent:

[http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/)

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/index](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/index)

---

### Post by zxcvbnm2 on 2008-05-23
> **meierfra. said:**
> I need some information to help you. Boot from the Ubuntu Live CD. Open a terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal)

Type

```
sudo fdisk -l
```
("l" is a lower case "L"

and post the output.

Next go to "Computer->Places" and double click  the icon for your ubuntu partition. Navigate to the folder /boot and then to /boot/grub.

Open the file "menu.lst" and post its content.

I did the first part above, I copied the information, and then I opened Firefox to come here so I could paste the information here.  But I had a bizarre problem with the internet.  Firefox was not able to connect with any web site except Google.  It would just time out. 

I would have copied it to a flash drive and then boot into Vista to send it, but I didn't have a flash drive with me.  (The computer is at my parent's house forty miles away, and I usually go there once a day which is why it takes me so long to do anything with it.)

I will be back there tonight and will send the requested information.

Thanks for your help.

---

