---
title: "9.10 + k9copy = loop"
date: 2010-01-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-01-05
I just installed a SATA dvd/rw drive and decided to install k9copy via synaptic package manager so I could try to backup one of my dvd's (I know it's stupid, but my "Twister" dvd is starting to not work so well) to see if burning a new disk would help (it is a store-bought dvd, not a copy of any sort).

Well, as soon as I try to select "open" on the GUI it appears to hang.  I tried running it from the command line and it is in a very tight loop of some sort, dumping out the following error messages continuously: 

*** libdvdread: CHECK_VALUE failed in ../src/dvdread/ifo_read.c:1567 ***
*** for c_adt->cell_adr_table[i].vob_id > 0 ***


*** libdvdread: CHECK_VALUE failed in ../src/dvdread/ifo_read.c:1569 ***
*** for c_adt->cell_adr_table[i].cell_id > 0 ***


*** libdvdread: CHECK_VALUE failed in ../src/dvdread/ifo_read.c:1571 ***
*** for c_adt->cell_adr_table[i].start_sector < c_adt->cell_adr_table[i].last_sector ***



Does anyone know either what I'm doing wrong or how to fix this?

BTW, on a complete side note, this is the first SATA device I have installed in my PC.  Is it normal for a SATA dvd/rw drive *NOT* to have an audio connector?  I replaced my old cd/rw, which had an audio connector, and I'm worried that I may not have sound from just a audio CD playback (don't have my speakers hooked up right now - another story).

Any thoughts?

Thank you in advance for another of my dumb questions!

Dave :)

---

### Post by thatguruguy on 2010-01-05
To the best of my knowledge, the sound connection is unnecessary.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-01-05
It dawned on me right after I made this post that we normally don't post things here regarding copying dvd's (even though I promise mine is legit), and I myself have voiced concerns about things like this in this forum.

I did fix my problem, after searching the net.  I won't post the answer here out of respect for copyrights, etc..  However, if someone wants to know they can pm me or in contact me offline from the forum posting.

Dave :)

---

