---
title: ".gz file into tar file?"
date: 2009-09-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by uncibex on 2009-09-01
I'm trying to set up my school's VPN client, but am not entirely sure how to do so.  When I go to download the file, it is a .gz file that tries to open itself inside of the browser instead of giving me the option to save or open.  I was able to save this to my computer using wget, but I don't really know what to do with it after this point.

First, what is a .gz file exactly?
Second, is there a way to turn this .gz file into a .tar.gz so that I can extract and install this?
If it helps, the command that I have to use to install the software is # ./vpn_install after I cd to the directory

Thanks!

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2009-09-01
> **uncibex said:**
> First, what is a .gz file exactly?
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gzip](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gzip)

> **uncibex said:**
>  Second, is there a way to turn this .gz file into a .tar.gz  Maybe it already is a tar.gz file? Aside from that, you may want to read this manual (use cursor keys to navigate, Q to quit):
```
man gunzip
```

tar.gz files can directly be unpacked by tar alone, no need to go through gunzip first:
```
tar pzxvf NameOfFile.tar.gz
```

---

### Post by NoaHall on 2009-09-01
A gz is a archive.
You can extract it by doing "gunzip /locationoffile.gz"

---

### Post by DaithiF on 2009-09-01
> **NoaHall said:**
> A gz is a archive.
You can extract it by doing "gunzip /locationoffile.gz"
strictly speaking, gz is not an archive, its a compressed file.
a **.tar** file is an archive, and its common to compress tar archives (.tar.gz), but its possible to gzip any type of file, archive or not.

gunzip uncompresses -- what results from that will be whatever was originally compressed, so it could be a .tar archive, or anything else really -- only way is to uncompress it and see what results.

once gunzip'd, if you want to check if the result is an archive, then
```
tar -tf filename
```
will tell you

if so, then 
```
tar -xvf filename

```
to extract the contents

---

### Post by NoaHall on 2009-09-01
Whatever, it's close.

---

### Post by uncibex on 2009-09-01
thanks for your help, but that didn't work

<QUOTE>
A gz is a archive.
You can extract it by doing "gunzip /locationoffile.gz" 
</QUOTE>

I had tried that before and got this error:
gzip: file.gz: not in gzip format

The file is not a tar.gz, it only has a gz extension (version # followed directly by .gz)

any other ideas?

---

### Post by NoaHall on 2009-09-01
What file are you downloading ? From where?

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-09-01
```
gunzip 123456.gz
```

Or what ever the numbers are is the only thing I could think of.

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2009-09-01
> **uncibex said:**
>  The file is not a tar.gz, it only has a gz extension 
You should try to unpack it with tar as explained above. If it isn't a "tar" file you will be instantly informed about this.

And besides:


Extensions have no meaning here. This is Linux, not stoopid Windoze that gets fooled so easily by file extensions. You could change the name of that file to "My Picture.jpg" if you want. Linux would still know what it is. Speaking of which: Why not ask the system about its opinion what that file might be? (no, I am not joking)

Open a terminal please and then feed it with this command:
```
file /path/to/your/File.gz
```

Examples from my own system:

```
# file /bin/bash
/bin/bash: ELF 64-bit LSB executable, x86-64, version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked (uses shared libs), for GNU/Linux 2.6.15, stripped

# file One_Ring.txt 
One_Ring.txt: ASCII English text

# file Aqua.jpg 
Aqua.jpg: JPEG image data, JFIF standard 1.02

# file Aqua.tgz 
Aqua.tgz: gzip compressed data, from Unix, last modified: Wed Sep  2 01:32:34 2009

```

And just to show how tar ignores extensions: I first rename the file from "*.tgz" to "*.gz" via the "mv" command, and then I try to unpack it again. And guess what: It just works. As was to be expected.
```

> mv Aqua.tgz Aqua.gz
> tar zxvf Aqua.gz
./Aqua.jpg

```

---

### Post by uncibex on 2009-09-01
> Extensions have no meaning here. This is Linux, not stoopid Windoze that gets fooled so easily by file extensions. You could change the name of that file to "My Picture.jpg" if you want. Linux would still know what it is. Speaking of which: Why not ask the system about its opinion what that file might be? (no, I am not joking)

Thank you! That was very useful information, and I did get the answer I was looking for.  Turns out that the ".gz" file as it was labeled is being read as just an HTML document.  So I guess it goes without saying that while I was able to change the extension, I was not able to extract the file.

So, I guess this means that it's not really something that I'll be able to fix by simply manipulating the file and that I'll just have to bug our IT people a little at school.

---

