---
title: "10.10 not booting, appreciate help!"
date: 2010-11-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by germanix on 2010-11-13
I installed 10.10 and all was fine, but then I started to fiddle and broke it. I did not want empathie, gwibber, evolution and pitivi, so I removed it via synaptic. In the process I also removed the indicator applet. Now 10.10 will not boot all the way. It gets as far as the final screen but without any panels. ( I guess I removed some stuff I should not have)
I then tried to re-install with the live disk but it will not load and install. I have no idea what to do now. Any help will be appreciated.

* Update: the live CD is now installing. Still going to need help though. How can I safely de-install the packages mentioned above, withuot breaking anything?

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-11-13
If you use Synaptic to remove packages you need to do 3 things:

1. check the properties to see what dependencies there are

2. use the uninstall rather than completely remove option

3. if it tells you to remove anything with python in it or the evolution-data-server (same applies to ubuntu-standard and ubuntu-minimal etc.); **don't!** (or at the very least check here on the forums first)

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by ikt on 2010-11-13
> **germanix said:**
> * Update: the live CD is now installing. Still going to need help though. How can I safely de-install the packages mentioned above, withuot breaking anything?

Generally you don't, the install is fairly small, is there any real point behind removing the packages?

---

### Post by psavva on 2010-11-13
> **germanix said:**
> I installed 10.10 and all was fine, but then I started to fiddle and broke it. I did not want empathie, gwibber, evolution and pitivi, so I removed it via synaptic. In the process I also removed the indicator applet. Now 10.10 will not boot all the way. It gets as far as the final screen but without any panels. ( I guess I removed some stuff I should not have)
I then tried to re-install with the live disk but it will not load and install. I have no idea what to do now. Any help will be appreciated.

* Update: the live CD is now installing. Still going to need help though. How can I safely de-install the packages mentioned above, withuot breaking anything?

Send us a screenshot so we can see what is missing...

Check that you have gnome-panel installed
```
 sudo apt-get install gnome-panel
```

If gnome-panels are missing, try and restore them:
```
 gconftool – -recursive-unset /apps/panel 
```
```
rm -rf ~/.gconf/apps/panel
```
```
pkill gnome-panel
```

---

### Post by germanix on 2010-11-13
Thank you for all your help. I now have the problem sorted out. Ubuntu 10.10 is back on track and working fine. With all previous versions of evolution, I could never get it to work for me, but 10.10 worked out of the box so I decided to keep and use it. All the other problems are sorted. I have no real need for either gwibber nor empathie but I decided to keep them rather than risk another breakdown by de-installing them. Thank you once more and all have a good day.

---

