---
title: "Installing Ubuntu 12.04 on a PPC G5 Mac Pro"
date: 2013-01-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wazawoo on 2013-01-22
I am trying to install Ubuntu 12.04 on my Mac Pro. I am completely new to linux (mainly a mac user). I have tried installing using both the live CD and alternate install CD. The issue I am having is the b43 driver issue. I can not resolve this. Every forum says to use the "b43.wireless=blacklist" command, but I am not receiving the same prompts as they are at boot, so I have no idea where to write the command.

Any help would be greatly appreciated..

Thanks!

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-01-23
My /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-bcm43.conf, looks like this:

```
cat blacklist-bcm43.conf
# Warning: This file is autogenerated by bcmwl. All changes to this file will be lost.
blacklist b43
blacklist b43legacy
blacklist ssb
blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist brcm80211
blacklist brcmfmac
blacklist brcmsmac
blacklist bcma
```

If one isn't automagically created for you, you can create one yourself using yjr following command, press Alt-F2 and type:

```
gksu gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-bcm43.conf
```

then copy and paste the contents of my file.

---

### Post by cepal on 2013-01-23
I wander why would someone install anything but MacOS X on a Mac hardware? I think the best for your testing and first experience is going the virtualisation way> Either install Oracle VirtualBox (totally free unless you install the addons which are free only for personal non-business use), or VMWare Player (which is free only for personal use) and play with Ubuntu installations within these virtualisations. Unless you totally lack RAM. But for a test desktop Ubuntu within Vbox oer VMW Player you don't need more than 768MB of RAM for the virtual machine (of course you might struggle opening 50 tabs in your favourite browser but that's not what testing should look like rite?).

My personal choice is Vbox because it's "totally" free and surprisesurprise a bit faster than VMware on CPU operations (while graphics a bit slower but way fast enough to watch videos, flash or eevn play some games).

Both, Vbox and VMware have guest OS tools so better integration of the guest OS (Ubuntu in your case) within the host (Mac OS X in your case). That's a one-time installation from an automounted ISO "inserted" by the virtualisation software (in menu there is some item like "install vmeware/virtualbox addons to the guest", click it, mount the CD, install it, maybe reboot, done). Of course when you upgrade the virtualbox or vmw player, you might need to update to new guest tools. But that doesn't happen often does it.

Have fun!
Have fun!

---

### Post by wazawoo on 2013-01-23
The only problem I have is that all I see on boot is the boot prompt, and after that the Ubuntu splash screen which stalls a bit before giving me the error. Is there a key I need to press to reach another prompt?

As for why I'm trying ubuntu on a Mac, it's G5, which makes it almost completely obsolete, and I have another main computer I use. I'm just interested in Ubuntu.

---

