---
title: "9.10 desktop crash"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by SDL on 2009-10-31
Hi everyone.

I have installed 9.10 but within about 10 seconds of the desktop loading the mouse and keyboard become completely unresponsive.

The computer works fine if I boot using recovery mode and then type ```
gdm
```

In the short term, is it OK to login this way? In the longer term, what can I do to solve the problem?

8.10 works fine but I had a similar problem with 9.04. [I have had to install 9.10 via the alternate CD as the live CD has the same crash when I load the desktop and when I try to install.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305130")

Here is a list of my hardware:
Processor: AMD Athlon 64, 2000 MHz (10 x 200) 3000+
Motherboard: Foxconn 755A01/K8S755A Series
RAM: 1536 MB (PC3200 DDR SDRAM)
Graphics card: NVIDIA GeForce FX 5700 (128 MB)
HDD: WDC WD1200JB-00GVC0 (111 GB)

I have installed the restricted drivers for my graphics card.

Thanks for reading.

Stephen.

---

### Post by liquidbee on 2009-10-31
```
modprobe nvidia
```

What's the output ?

---

### Post by SDL on 2009-10-31
Thanks for your reply.

There doesn't appear to be any output from the command:
```
sdl@PC1:~$ modprobe nvidia
sdl@PC1:~$ modprobe nvidia
sdl@PC1:~$ 

```

Is this because I'm running the command from recovery mode or was no output expected?

Thanks.

Stephen.

---

### Post by liquidbee on 2009-10-31
Reconfigure X.org ( defaults ):
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

Regenerate kernel module:
```
rmmod nvidia
depmod -a
modprobe nvidia
```

Reconfigure X.org ( for Nvidia ):
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

Reboot:
```
sudo shutdown -r now
```

---

### Post by SDL on 2009-10-31
I ran each of these commands from recovery mode but the problem still happens and I still don't get any output from ```
modprobe nvidia
``` or ```
sudo modprobe nvidia
```

Just to check that I entered the commands correctly? I ran them without gdm otherwise I get an error message that ```
module 'nvidia' is in use
``` Also I used sudo with the commands used to regenerate kernel module.

Thanks for your help.

Stephen.

---

### Post by nixed242 on 2009-11-01
I've been out of town since Friday night, so I haven't been able to post and update. I think I've isolated the problem. It's not in X, but rather in the fancy new login sequence of 9.10 Basically, the crash happens when the Kernel calls the nvidia driver and loads it. When we boot in restricted mode, and go to a command line, the driver isn't loaded. That's why we're able to get into GDM and use it through Restrictive mode. 

The solution would be for Ubuntu to load a VESA driver instead of a NVIDIA Driver upon boot. If so, we won't have the flashy new 9.10 login screen, but I can live without. X can then be configured for it to use the NVIDIA driver. In theory, we shouldn't get an hang ups after that. The reason 8.10 worked flawlessly for me, was that it used a VESA driver when booting on my system.

Does this make sense to anyone? I'm going to see if I can install Ubuntu once more, and then through the command line, swap out the NVIDIA Kernel Driver for a VESA driver. If anyone knows how I can go about that, let me know. If this works, it will solve a lot of headaches for a lot of people who want to use Ubuntu, but get the 12 second Desktop Crash.

I'll let you know if I find anything further.

-Nixed

---

### Post by nixed242 on 2009-11-03
I 've solved the issue! At least on my system. I reported a bug Report, and this is what I just posted. Ubuntu works fine now! 

"I solved the problem! The issue wasn't with the NVIDIA driver at all. My FIC KT800 motherboard contains VIA chips, which are buggy with Ubuntu. To get it to work, I would have to turn off ACPI in my bios since the "acpi=off" parameter wouldn't do anything at boot time. The 9.10 Live CD, and the Alternate Install CD, load ACPI as a Runlevel 2 3 4 and 5 script. This was what caused my system to hang during normal boot. Of course, recovery mode has a Runlevel of S which doesn't run the ACPI script.

To remedy the issue, I went into /etc/rc2.d from Recovery mode and renamed "S99acpi-support" to "K99acpi-support" and that fixed things. Now I also renamed "S99laptop-mode" and "S99ondemand" just to be sure, and have since not named them back. I'm sure if I do, everything would work still as long as "acpi-support" is not loaded. I don't even know why "S99laptop-mode" script is in there since I'm running Ubuntu on a Desktop!

But in all fairness, and where criticism is due, why would an Alternate Installer, install the ACPI script, when at least 15% of the people trying Ubuntu have a buggy chipset that cause it to crash with ACPI? I thought the whole point of the Alternate Installer was to allow people to install the system with safe drivers? I would hope Ubuntu would omit the ACPI script from the Alternate Install in the future. I'm sure it would solve have of the help requests in the forums."

---

### Post by SDL on 2009-11-04
It works! Thanks so much. The only thing I would add is that I had to run
```
update-rc.d
```after renaming those scripts.

What a nuisance this problem has been for the past 8 months!

---

### Post by nixed242 on 2009-11-11
Just a quick follow up. I tried to go back and enable S99ondemand script in the /etc/rc2.d since I disabled it when trying to solve the above issue. On reboot, my system froze. Maybe the culprit is not the "S99acpi-support" after all? :) Who knows!?

---

### Post by SDL on 2010-05-01
I updated to 10.04 today and I have the same problem again.

I'm not sure if the problem lies with renaming the correct files, updating rc.d or in some additional feature of the new Ubuntu?

I've renamed "S99acpi-support" and "S99ondemand" but not "S99laptop-mode" as it doesn't seem to exist anymore. There are a few more files that start with "S99" which I haven't renamed as I didn't know what they were.

I'm not sure if ```
update-rc.d
``` is working? I get the following output:```
user@user:~$ update-rc.d
usage: update-rc.d [-n] [-f] <basename> remove
       update-rc.d [-n] <basename> defaults [NN | SS KK]
       update-rc.d [-n] <basename> start|stop NN runlvl [runlvl] [...] .
       update-rc.d [-n] <basename> disable|enable [S|2|3|4|5]
		-n: not really
		-f: force

The disable|enable API is not stable and might change in the future.
```

Anyone else having the same issue or any ideas to fix it please?

Stephen

---

### Post by SDL on 2010-05-01
Forgot to say that it still works fine in recovery mode using```
gdm
``` to start Gnome.

---

### Post by SDL on 2010-05-01
Sorry all, it does work after all. I did something stupid. Instead of deleting the S99 files, I renamed them .bak and left them in there as well as creating the K99 files. Turns out this is not a good idea!

---

