---
title: "internet not working after upgrade..."
date: 2010-04-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ajith learning da ropes on 2010-04-29
[FONT="Comic Sans MS"]my internet connection stopped working after an update to 2.6.31-26 (generic) i use 9.10 (karmic kola)... the lines still work with windows....  had no problems previously. i use an Ethernet connection via a cable modem to access the net. No settings change from my side.... help pls... don't want to use windows to access the net for long...[/FONT]:(

am able to ping the loopback and DHCP provided ip address successfully...

ps: how do i look up the IP of my DNS server?

---

### Post by swoll1980 on 2010-04-30
> **ajith learning da ropes said:**
> [FONT=Comic Sans MS]my internet connection stopped working after an update to 2.6.31-26 (generic) i use 9.10 (karmic kola)... the lines still work with windows....  had no problems previously. i use an Ethernet connection via a cable modem to access the net. No settings change from my side.... help pls... don't want to use windows to access the net for long...[/FONT]:(

am able to ping the loopback and DHCP provided ip address successfully...

ps: how do i look up the IP of my DNS server?

More details. Hardware, and all that good stuff. 
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
to see your DNS

---

### Post by ifraser on 2010-05-01
I'm having the same problem after upgrading to Lucid (64-bit).

cat /etc/resolv.conf gives: "# Generated by NetworkManager"  and nothing else.

Edit: I'm on one of those Zonet USB wireless cards that works just dandy as long as one blacklists rt2800.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-05-01
While you are wired, try doing sudo apt-get update then look in System/Administration/Hardware Drivers and see if a driver shows there that you need to enable.  If not, I suspect you either need to load your wireless driver again since the kernel change, or, if you had something like the madwifi or other drivers that you had to build (make, make install) that you'll need to rebuild them and then install.

Besides the things already asked for, please also post the output from:

lspci

lsusb

lshw -C network


Dave ;)

---

