---
title: "Startup-manager corrupts X?"
date: 2008-06-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Hashi on 2008-06-06
Hi,
 Due to problems with standby/hibernate on my laptop, someone suggested running startup-manager to fix it. Well, it fixed it alright!
  I now cannot start up normally (from cold) without going into fix mode, and manually fixing X11.
  Problem is, startup manager did not have my screen resolution in it's list, so if I try to start normally, I get some weird 31B error, and I have to reboot, start in fix mode, etc. Problem is, then my nvidia driver does not work, and I lose all my good compiz stuff.
  Can anyone tell me which files startup-manager alters ( I thought xorg.conf, but no) so that I can fix this?
  Failing an answer, I will have to reinstall, which I really DON'T want to do, I have everything set up just the way I like it.
Thanks
Jon

---

### Post by Hashi on 2008-06-07
Hi,
Due to problems with standby/hibernate on my laptop, someone suggested running startup-manager to fix it. Well, it fixed it alright!
I now cannot start up normally (from cold) without going into fix mode, and manually fixing X11.
Problem is, startup manager did not have my screen resolution in it's list, so if I try to start normally, I get some weird 31B error, and I have to reboot, start in fix mode, etc. Problem is, then my nvidia driver does not work, and I lose all my good compiz stuff.
Can anyone tell me which files startup-manager alters ( I thought xorg.conf, but no) so that I can fix this?
Failing an answer, I will have to reinstall, which I really DON'T want to do, I have everything set up just the way I like it.
Thanks
Jon

---

### Post by Najand on 2008-06-07
Hmm, it is probably easier fixing it using xorg.conf. Post your xorg.conf file here and we will have a look at it.

---

### Post by Hashi on 2008-06-07
Ok, here 'tis:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

__________________________________________________________________

But I have to say, I have tried reverting to a previous version (which had "driver="nvivdia") with no luck.

Hope this helps!

Thanks,
Jon

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-06-07
Re-run the command below to reconfigure your xorg.conf file:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by Hashi on 2008-06-07
I did as you say (I have done this about 10 times already, though), still the same. xorg.conf is identical. I guess my real question is, what files does startup-manager change? It must be more than xorg.conf. When booting, the error message comes up "instantly", ie before xorg is even called. What am I missing?
Ta
Jon

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-06-07
What video card are you running?

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-06-07
Here, You can try reading this [thread ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=295524")about SUM.

---

### Post by Hashi on 2008-06-07
Thanks for all of your help, sincerely. The problem has gone away, and I have no idea what action fixed it. This is slightly annoying, I would rather know WHY something broke so that if it happens again, I'll know how to fix it. Anyways, thanks again, the Ubuntu community is awesome!
Jon

---

### Post by Hashi on 2008-06-23
Hi,
  I have no idea why, but when I started my laptop this morning, it refused to load X, and threw me into terminal mode. I have searched the forums here for similar things, and come up with the usual dpkg-reconfigure, nvidia-xconfig etc, with no luck. Still stuck in text mode.
  I can't post the output, as the machine is at home, I am at work, and I couldn't think of a way to get the output (when it's logging on) into a form that would be useful. There are lines such as ".xinitrc missing" or some such (I'll have to check later).
  Compaq V6000, NVidia go.
PS This has been working perfectly since 7.04, I have no idea why it has carked it now.
Thanks
Jon

---

### Post by NT4usB on 2008-06-23
There was a recent kernel update that jacked some folks nvidia.
I don't know what the proper fix is... I used Envy and was over it.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=836437](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=836437)

---

### Post by Hashi on 2008-06-24
Hi,
  I have posted a couple of times today to try and get answer for this. I have now booted into Knoppix so that I can access the internet and make this post. My Hardy install is so broken, I can't use it to access the internet, or really do anything at all.
  After the recent kernel upgrade, everything went to sh*t. It will only boot into text mode, no internet connection, nothing.
  I have tried previous kernels, still no go (all the way back to 12).
  I can't post any screens or files, 'cause I can't get at them. All I can say, it starts booting with the splash screen, then reverts to text. I have run dpkg-reconfigure etc, tried to download envyng, but can't get on the internet, where do I go from here? I'm thinking complete reinstall, but I would go back to 7.10, 8.04 sucks for me.
  Using Compaq v6000, turion 64x2 1.6, grforce 6150 go.

PLEASE help!
Thanks
Jon

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-06-24
Kernel updates generally breaks third-party modules -- those not included in the linux-ubuntu-modules-*(kernel version number)* or in other official repository packages, such as nvidia-glx-new. Likely you used Envy or an Nvidia installer to install the driver itself, no? Just use the same tools to reinstall it and you should be fine.

On a side note, to diagnose what caused an X session to fail, examine the contents of **/var/log/Xorg.0.log**. Yours likely says something along the lines of 'Nvidia kernel module not found!"

---

### Post by Sub101 on 2008-06-24
For me I had to go into recovery mode where it gave me the option to configure my display. After this it worked fine.

---

### Post by chrisccoulson on 2008-06-24
How did you initially install the driver for your videocard? Did you install it from the repositories, using Envy or from the NVIDIA website?

---

### Post by Hashi on 2008-06-24
I just used the normal update method. ie I saw that updates were available, clicked yes to install. Just the normal ubuntu update process.
Jon

---

### Post by chrisccoulson on 2008-06-24
That didn't answer my original question? How did you initially install the NVIDIA driver (before you updated)? Also what does /var/log/Xorg.0.log contain?

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-06-24
Perhaps your internet connection doesn't get properly setup until you've actually logged in? Your Gnomeling ways are foreign to me. Regardless, you should be able to fix X by just disabling your proprietary nvidia driver. For now. Then you can troubleshoot.
```
$ sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
You will be running the non-accelerated driver after having done this.


Any kernel updates you've made logically can't break earlier ones. After having done the above command, try rebooting into the same kernel and see if it works. If it doesn't, try your older ones. If you at any point get working internet access, make sure you have all the modules packages installed.
```
$ sudo aptitude install linux-generic
```

---

### Post by Hashi on 2008-06-24
Thanks for replying. I'll try and explain the chain of events. I have had ubuntu on this machine for over two years now. I have always just accepted the default updates when I have been notified. As to your question, I guess I originally (2 years ago) installed the nvidia driver from the nvidia site. But, since then, I have used the restricted drivers manager to install the driver.
  Everything was fine up until 2 days ago, when I accepted the updated .19 kernel. Initially, it seemed OK, until I tried to reboot. Then (and I try not to resort to hyperbole), all hell broke loose, as I couldn't boot into a graphic environment, and my network stopped working.
  I have no idea if the two are related, but I believe it was the upgrade to the new kernel that has caused the problem.
  Witness the fact I can boot into knoppix on USB and post this, but can't boot into ubuntu and do the same.
  I'm not sure where to start. I have checked the /etc/X11/xorg.conf and it's many backups, and they are all the same. Something else is broken, and I don't know what.
Thanks
Jon

---

### Post by chrisccoulson on 2008-06-24
Please try Zorael's suggestion above. It is very possible that you don't have the linux-generic meta-package installed, which means that the linux-restricted-modules package for the new kernel wouldn't have been pulled in from the repositories during the kernel upgrade. This will break the NVIDIA drivers.

---

### Post by Hashi on 2008-06-24
Thanks, I will try, but I have already done sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg about 20 times. I will give it a go, and do the sudo aptitude install linux-generic (which I haven't done yet), but it will have to wait until tomorrow, I'm tired and have to get some sleep for work tomorrow. Australia, always out of step with the rest of the world!
Thanks, guys, I'll report in about 20 hours.
Jon

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-06-24
If you can access it, the contents of your /var/log/Xorg.0.log file should prove helpful in diagnosing what's wrong with the nvidia driver. As for the networking, I'd wait and see until we actually get into your desktop environment.

---

### Post by chrisccoulson on 2008-06-24
'sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg' doesn't work in Hardy as it doesn't configure video settings anymore. The suggestion to do 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg' was just to create a fresh xorg.conf

---

### Post by Hashi on 2008-06-24
> **Zorael said:**
> Kernel updates generally breaks third-party modules -- those not included in the linux-ubuntu-modules-*(kernel version number)* or in other official repository packages, such as nvidia-glx-new. Likely you used Envy or an Nvidia installer to install the driver itself, no? Just use the same tools to reinstall it and you should be fine.

On a side note, to diagnose what caused an X session to fail, examine the contents of **/var/log/Xorg.0.log**. Yours likely says something along the lines of 'Nvidia kernel module not found!"

Umm, I have always (well, since it became available) used the restricted modules provided by Ubuntu to install the NVidia driver. Trouble is now, I can't even get on the internet, it seems my NIC is broken too. 
UPDATE: I booted knoppix from a USB and was able at least to get a basic X session going, and connect to the internet, so the hardware is OK. I take your point about Xorg.0.log, I will have a look when I get home tonight.
Thanks,
Jon

---

### Post by Hashi on 2008-06-25
Hi again, if you're still there!
Here is my Xorg.0.log, there is one error:
____________________________________________________________
(EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)
Atom 4, CARD32 4, unsigned long 4


I have no idea how to fix it. Any ideas much appreciated!

---

### Post by Hashi on 2008-06-25
Sorry, I couldn't post the whole file (too many inages?) I will try again. I Can't upload the whole thing, but here is the relevant bit:

(==) NV(0): Write-combining range (0xc0000000,0x2000000)
(II) NV(0): Using XFree86 Acceleration Architecture (XAA)
	Screen to screen bit blits
	Solid filled rectangles
	8x8 mono pattern filled rectangles
	Indirect CPU to Screen color expansion
	Solid Lines
	Scanline Image Writes
	Setting up tile and stipple cache:
		32 128x128 slots
		32 256x256 slots
		16 512x512 slots
(==) NV(0): Backing store disabled
(==) NV(0): Silken mouse enabled
(II) NV(0): DPMS enabled
(==) RandR enabled
(II) Initializing built-in extension MIT-SHM
(II) Initializing built-in extension XInputExtension
(II) Initializing built-in extension XTEST
(II) Initializing built-in extension XKEYBOARD
(II) Initializing built-in extension XC-APPGROUP
(II) Initializing built-in extension XAccessControlExtension
(II) Initializing built-in extension SECURITY
(II) Initializing built-in extension XINERAMA
(II) Initializing built-in extension XFIXES
(II) Initializing built-in extension XFree86-Bigfont
(II) Initializing built-in extension RENDER
(II) Initializing built-in extension RANDR
(II) Initializing built-in extension COMPOSITE
(II) Initializing built-in extension DAMAGE
(II) Initializing built-in extension XEVIE
(EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)
Atom 4, CARD32 4, unsigned long 4
(II) Synaptics touchpad driver version 0.14.6 (1406)
(--) Synaptics Touchpad auto-dev sets device to /dev/input/event10
(**) Option "Device" "/dev/input/event10"
(**) Option "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
(--) Synaptics Touchpad touchpad found
(**) Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
(**) Synaptics Touchpad: always reports core events
(WW) Configured Mouse: No Device specified, looking for one...
(II) Configured Mouse: Setting Device option to "/dev/input/mice"
(--) Configured Mouse: Device: "/dev/input/mice"
(==) Configured Mouse: Protocol: "Auto"
(**) Option "CorePointer"
(**) Configured Mouse: always reports core events
(**) Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
(==) Configured Mouse: Emulate3Buttons, Emulate3Timeout: 50
(**) Configured Mouse: ZAxisMapping: buttons 4 and 5
(**) Configured Mouse: Buttons: 9
(**) Configured Mouse: Sensitivity: 1
(**) Option "CoreKeyboard"
(**) Generic Keyboard: always reports core events
(**) Option "Protocol" "standard"
(**) Generic Keyboard: Protocol: standard
(**) Option "AutoRepeat" "500 30"
(**) Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
(**) Generic Keyboard: XkbRules: "xorg"
(**) Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
(**) Generic Keyboard: XkbModel: "pc105"
(**) Option "XkbLayout" "us"
(**) Generic Keyboard: XkbLayout: "us"
(**) Option "CustomKeycodes" "off"
(**) Generic Keyboard: CustomKeycodes disabled
(II) evaluating device (Generic Keyboard)
(II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "Generic Keyboard" (type: KEYBOARD)
(II) evaluating device (Configured Mouse)
(II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "Configured Mouse" (type: MOUSE)
(II) evaluating device (Synaptics Touchpad)
(II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "Synaptics Touchpad" (type: MOUSE)
(--) Configured Mouse: PnP-detected protocol: "ExplorerPS/2"
(II) Configured Mouse: ps2EnableDataReporting: succeeded
(--) Synaptics Touchpad auto-dev sets device to /dev/input/event10
(**) Option "Device" "/dev/input/event10"
(--) Synaptics Touchpad touchpad found
[config/hal] couldn't initialise context: (null) ((null))
FreeFontPath: FPE "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc" refcount is 2, should be 1; fixing.

---

### Post by chrisccoulson on 2008-06-26
Sorry I took a while to get back to you. Could you post the whole log? You can attach it as a text file, or archive it in a tar.gz and attach that. Could you also post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf as well please, and the output of:
```
dpkg -l nvidia-*
dpkg -l linux-*
```
Just trying to establish if you've got everything installed ok

Thanks

---

### Post by Hashi on 2008-07-05
Thanks, and sorry to be so late in answering. I actually reinstalled 7.10, then upgraded to 8.04 and (almost) everything is OK. But here is the output I got today, if it means anything now:

jon@jon-laptop:~$ dpkg -l nvidia-*
Desired=Unknown/Install/Remove/Purge/Hold
| Status=Not/Installed/Config-f/Unpacked/Failed-cfg/Half-inst/t-aWait/T-pend
|/ Err?=(none)/Hold/Reinst-required/X=both-problems (Status,Err: uppercase=bad)
||/ Name           Version        Description
+++-==============-==============-============================================
un  nvidia-glx     <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-glx-leg <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-glx-new <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-kernel- <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-kernel- <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-kernel- <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-kernel- <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-kernel- <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-kernel- <none>         (no description available)
ii  nvidia-kernel- 20051028+1ubun NVIDIA binary kernel module common files
jon@jon-laptop:~$ dpkg -l linux-*
Desired=Unknown/Install/Remove/Purge/Hold
| Status=Not/Installed/Config-f/Unpacked/Failed-cfg/Half-inst/t-aWait/T-pend
|/ Err?=(none)/Hold/Reinst-required/X=both-problems (Status,Err: uppercase=bad)
||/ Name           Version        Description
+++-==============-==============-============================================
un  linux-boot-loa <none>         (no description available)
un  linux-doc-2.6. <none>         (no description available)
un  linux-doc-2.6. <none>         (no description available)
ii  linux-generic  2.6.24.19.21   Complete Generic Linux kernel
un  linux-headers  <none>         (no description available)
un  linux-headers- <none>         (no description available)
pn  linux-headers- <none>         (no description available)
pn  linux-headers- <none>         (no description available)
pn  linux-headers- <none>         (no description available)
pn  linux-headers- <none>         (no description available)
ii  linux-headers- 2.6.24-19.34   Header files related to Linux kernel version
ii  linux-headers- 2.6.24-19.34   Linux kernel headers for version 2.6.24 on x
ii  linux-headers- 2.6.24.19.21   Generic Linux kernel headers
un  linux-image    <none>         (no description available)
un  linux-image-2. <none>         (no description available)
rc  linux-image-2. 2.6.22-14.52   Linux kernel image for version 2.6.22 on x86
ii  linux-image-2. 2.6.22-15.54   Linux kernel image for version 2.6.22 on x86
ii  linux-image-2. 2.6.24-19.34   Linux kernel image for version 2.6.24 on x86
ii  linux-image-ge 2.6.24.19.21   Generic Linux kernel image
un  linux-initramf <none>         (no description available)
un  linux-kernel-h <none>         (no description available)
un  linux-kernel-l <none>         (no description available)
ii  linux-libc-dev 2.6.24-19.34   Linux Kernel Headers for development
un  linux-libertin <none>         (no description available)
rc  linux-restrict 2.6.22.4-14.10 Non-free Linux 2.6.22 modules on x86/x86_64
ii  linux-restrict 2.6.22.4-15.11 Non-free Linux 2.6.22 modules on x86/x86_64
ii  linux-restrict 2.6.24.13-19.4 Non-free Linux 2.6.24 modules on x86/x86_64
un  linux-restrict <none>         (no description available)
ii  linux-restrict 2.6.24.13-19.4 Non-free Linux 2.6.24 modules helper script
ii  linux-restrict 2.6.24.19.21   Restricted Linux modules for generic kernels
ii  linux-sound-ba 1.0.16-0ubuntu base package for ALSA and OSS sound systems
un  linux-source-2 <none>         (no description available)
un  linux-source-2 <none>         (no description available)
rc  linux-ubuntu-m 2.6.22-14.38   Ubuntu supplied Linux modules for version 2.
ii  linux-ubuntu-m 2.6.22-15.39   Ubuntu supplied Linux modules for version 2.
ii  linux-ubuntu-m 2.6.24-19.28   Ubuntu supplied Linux modules for version 2.
jon@jon-laptop:~$ 
jon@jon-laptop:~$ 

I don't know if this relevant or not now. I reinstalled, and all seems OK. One thing, I have ditched Compiz (I am no using Enlightenment) and life is good.
Thanks'
Jon

---

