---
title: "15.1 ubuntu Installation showing &quot;Please Insert System Disk&quot;"
date: 2016-03-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Curtis_Johnson on 2016-03-07
Hi guys, i'm completely new to Ubuntu and i'm struggling to find the reason behind my failed installation.

I've replaced Windows 8.1 completely from my Toshiba laptop and I installed 15.10 through my LiveBoot CD, although on reboot and after pressing Enter it then says "Please Insert System Disk". 

I ran boot repair which has not helped with my installation, what could be wrong from my boot repair? [http://paste.ubuntu.com/15322793/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/15322793/)

---

### Post by yancek on 2016-03-07
I'm not sure how this happened, but you have your windows 8 EFI boot files still in the EFI partition along with the Ubuntu EFI files.  The problem is that you also have windows boot code in the MBR which should not be there if you want to use EFI.  Also, have you removed the installation DVD from the drive and changed the boot priority back to the hard drive?  I'm not sure how you would correct the mix of MBR/EFI as I don't use EFI.  Someone else should be along with a suggestion.

---

### Post by Curtis_Johnson on 2016-03-08
Thanks for the response yancek. Is there anybody else who can help me correct this MBR/EFI mix??

---

### Post by yancek on 2016-03-08
> "Please Insert System Disk"

With that error, have you set the boot priority back to boot from the hard drive?  I've seen that when the CD/DVD drive set first and not media in the drive.  It should skip the drive and go to the next option but that doesn't always happen.  While you are waiting for a response, you might use the search function here on the forums to serch "UEFI and Toshiba".  I've read several posts here about problems with Toshiba and UEFI as they don't comply with the UEFI standards.  Good luck.

---

