---
title: "Bcm4312"
date: 2010-11-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by OoAmAyAoO on 2010-11-10
Hi,
After almost a month from starting to use Ubuntu I still can't make my wireless to work!!
I tried many thing but nothing works!!
I tried to install b43-fwcutter but the installation won't complete and I still don't know what to do with the firmware!!
I also installed the windows wireless driver..
I tried to connect to the internet by using GNOME PPP to install what I need by using the terminal but that didn't work either..
any suggestions?

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-11-10
> **OoAmAyAoO said:**
> Hi,
After almost a month from starting to use Ubuntu I still can't make my wireless to work!!
I tried many thing but nothing works!!
I tried to install b43-fwcutter but the installation won't complete and I still don't know what to do with the firmware!!
I also installed the windows wireless driver..
I tried to connect to the internet by using GNOME PPP to install what I need by using the terminal but that didn't work either..
any suggestions?

Can you connect ubuntu wired ok?

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2010-11-10
[This]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309760") thread is a bit old, but give it a shot, unless you already have of course.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-11-10
The BCM4312 should not require the steps you have taken. It looks like you may have been misguided initially, resulting in you taking some steps that hopefully won't interfere with the easy method.
 
All of my laptops that do not have Intel wireless devices have the BCM4312 so I have a great deal of experience getting it working on various machines. All you have to do after a fresh install, and I'm assuming it will still work after the steps you have already taken, is plug into a router via ethernet, then go to system>>administration>>hardware and allow the system time to look for updates and look for available drivers. If it comes up with 2 options, select the STA driver (should be the lower one in the choices) and select activate. Once it downloads and installs the driver, reboot and see if it connects once it finishes booting.
 
If this does not work for you then I suspect some steps you took could be interfering with the proper operation/configuration, especially if you entered anything into any .conf files. Since it is an unknown, are you able to reinstall and try my method again (if it doesn't work the first time)? I have 2 Dells and 2 Acers that all require these identical steps.
 
Edit: I used this method on 9.10, 10.04 and 10.10. Previous versions of Ubuntu may be different as I have no experience installing on them.
 
Good luck!

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-11-10
As TBABill, phillinux, etc., are trying to get at:

- you need to get back to a "clean slate" regarding anything you have tried to do.

- in using ndiswrapper it's quite possible that either you manually or the system, if you used ndisgtk, blacklisted some drivers in the /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf file.  Be sure to reverse anything in there that is at the end (normally) that may reference such things as B43, ssb, b43-legacy (and I'm sure some others I don't know or don't know the correct names for).

Once you have reversed anything you have done so far in regards to the wireless, then the others have suggested or were going to suggest (phillinux) that:

- connect a hard-wire temporarily between your PC and the router so you can still get on the net even though the wireless isn't working.  If this isn't possible, stop here and post back so we can look at alternatives for you.  

- in a terminal window (Applications/Accessories/Terminal), type:

 sudo apt-get update <press enter>

- check in System/Administration/Additional Drivers - it may take a while to search for any available drivers for your PC - see if any of the Broadcom wireless show up -> such as STA, etc..  If so, enable that, wait a few minutes, then  (a) right-click on the network manager icon and see if  Enable Wireless option is available and check it to be sure it is enabled (b) left-click on the network manager icon to see if any wireless networks show.

If at any point along the way you have something not work, have any questions, etc., STOP THERE and do nothing more.  Post back here and we can try to get you through the problem or question.

Don't worry - your wireless will work.  It's just a matter of which way to load in the driver.  And......MANY, MANY, MANY of us know the frustration of trying to figure out how to get wireless working as we've all been there.  

So, hang in there and let us know how the above goes.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by OoAmAyAoO on 2010-11-11
It worked!!
Thank you very very much
I'm posting this by using my wireless..
I reinstalled ubuntu  and followed your steps and now it is working!
Thank you again..

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-11-12
From us all - you're welcome!

dave ;)

---

### Post by cliff01 on 2010-11-15
Thank you. Had success with your suggestion/wisdom. Works like a charm :)

---

