---
title: "9.10 UNR Menu very slow on Dell Mini 10"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Aaron49 on 2009-11-05
Hey guys, im brand new to Ubuntu, as in a couple of days of reading up on it and a friend who swears by it. I recently put it on my netbook as a test, and i figured i have nothing to lose since all that was on there was school papers and notes which were easily backed up. 

So far, i am very much pleased with the layout and the applications, etc. My only problem is that the actual main menu is very slow, switching between panels is slow also. Once i actually load up an application, there is no problem. 

Is this just my netbook?It has the standard 1.6 atom, Intel 500, etc.  Is there something i can do to help remedy the problem.

I am sorry if this is an easily remedied problem i have done much searching for a solution to this problem but ive gotten a whole range of answers for 9.04, but not much of anything for 9.10. I understand its brand new just looking for some advice.

Thanks for help, Aaron

Edit: My friend said that you can remove the menu, but he couldn't remember how to do it. Perhaps that would help?

---

### Post by Aaron49 on 2009-11-05
Bump.

Also, is there a command to get the regular desktop look instead of the menu look on a netbook?

---

### Post by okusi on 2009-11-14
I am also having problems with 9.10 netbook edition on a HP netbook.  The desktop is *extremely* slow; applications run at normal speed.

---

### Post by 1buprofen on 2009-11-14
I am having the same problem, I installed last weekend with the menu being slow. Was busy all week so now I am looking to try and fix it this weekend. I read in another post that (installing plousbo video drivers) fixed the problem in 9.04, but when they upgraded to 9.10 they got the slow menu. I'm going to try and get the drivers and see if that helps.

---

### Post by pjman on 2009-11-16
Check out [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1229345](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1229345)

Your Mini 10 has the GMA 500 which does not have a fully working driver since the specs are closed source. The Mini 10v has the GMA 950 which is open source.

---

### Post by sumeet_sageer on 2009-11-22
Hi,
  I am also having the same problem. Menu transitions (i.e. navigating UNR menus) very slow and am seeing a lot of other systems having the same problem. I have a HP mini 2133. Just installed it yesterday. Going to try and disable UNR and see if any difference. Everthing else is fine. Applications, boot times are all good. Anyone has any ideas?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-11-22
> **sumeet_sageer said:**
> Hi,
  I am also having the same problem. Menu transitions (i.e. navigating UNR menus) very slow and am seeing a lot of other systems having the same problem. I have a HP mini 2133. Just installed it yesterday. Going to try and disable UNR and see if any difference. Everthing else is fine. Applications, boot times are all good. Anyone has any ideas?

Does your netbook have Intel GMA 500 (poulsbo) graphics? If so, try the link in pjman's post. If not, please start a new thread on your topic.

---

### Post by kraus3742 on 2009-12-31
I have the same issue and have tried multiple fixes with no success.

Has anyone had any success with this post?  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1229345](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1229345)

Looks like it should work, but I ran into multiple dependency issues.  I went back to the Dell install of Hardy.

---

