---
title: "8.10 USB Thumb Drive Drops into Built In Shell during boot"
date: 2008-12-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by eagleosprey on 2008-12-04
Hello - I'm a windows/Dos user since '84. Ubuntu/Linux newb.  

My 16GB USB Start-up Thumb Drive of Ubuntu 8.10 drops into the built in shell during the boot process after the Ubunto splash screen pops up and the orange bar begins to move across the screen.

The message that appears is: 

BusyBox v1.10.2 (Ubuntu 1:1.10.2-1ubuntu6) built-in shell (ash).  
Enter 'help' for a list of build in commands.
(initramfs)

I can type after the "(initramfs)" and if I enter help receive a list of built-in commands. 

I would appreciate any help to resolve this. I suspect that this could be a thumb drive issue specific to teh 16GB drive or a thumb drive size issue but thought that experienced users may have some insight given the info below. 

This is what I have tried/tested over the last several days:
1) I successfully created a 1GB (ONE GB) USB Thumb Drive that boots to Ubuntu 8.10 using the instructions from [http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2008/11/01/ubuntu-810-install-using-the-built-in-usb-installer/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2008/11/01/ubuntu-810-install-using-the-built-in-usb-installer/). This 1GB drive works perfectly but of course does not have the space for other downloads, etc.

2) I used the same process with a new 16GB (SIXTEEN GB) Thumb Drive that I bought specifically for Ubuntu but experienced the problem described above. The drive is a cheap import purchased on ebay but works fine when tested in XP.

3) My first attempts to make the 16GB drive bootable using the boot CD crashed and I resolved that problem using Gpart to reformat the thumb drive using info from these forums.

4) I burned a new boot CD using a slower burn speed and recreated both the 1GB and 16GB Thumb drives (I saw this suggestion for a similar problem in another post). 1GB drive worked fine. 16GB drive showed the same problem.

5) I tried several additional creations of the 16GB drive using several different extra reserve space settings but always have the same problem.

Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by Dedoimedo on 2008-12-04
Hello,
What filesystem did you use on the drive?
Can you start the X windows manually?
Dedoimedo

---

### Post by eagleosprey on 2008-12-04
Dedoimedo - When I Gparted I used the first option listed but then the "Create a USB Start Up Disk" process detects that the thumb drive needs to be reformated and does so.

I don't understand your 2nd question about "start the X windows manually".  If you mean could I continue the boot process into Ubunto by entering commands into the shell, I tried the command "exit" to see what would happen, but I received an unfamiliar message and the system locked.  I had to hold the on/off button for several seconds to power down. I can recreate the situation and record the message if useful or try other shell commands.

---

### Post by Dedoimedo on 2008-12-04
Hello,

Sure, the more info you provide the better.
Try starting X by typing: startx or /etc/init.d/gdm start.
See if this launches the desktop.

Post any error you get, if you like.

Dedoimedo

---

### Post by eagleosprey on 2008-12-04
Hello Dedoimedo,

Neither of the 2 commands you suggested worked.  When I type "help" I don't see the startx command listed.  I updated my original post with a few details.

Also, I used another laptop to recreate the bootable 16GB thumb drive and achieved the same results when booting on the different laptop.  The 1GB thumb drive works on both laptops.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2008-12-04
Hi Eagle/Osprey,

The 'startx' suggestion is not really relevant--it would be good advice if you were able to log in and get to the command line, but you seem to be stuck in Busybox.

I have never tried the pendrivelinux tutorials, but I've always had good luck using the Unetbootin utility to create a bootable live USB. That would be my suggestion if you're willing to try something different. Good luck!

---

### Post by eagleosprey on 2008-12-04
snowpine - thanks for the unetbootin idea.  I still hope to find out why the method I used works perfectly for the 1GB usb thumb drive but not for the 16GB drive.

---

### Post by eagleosprey on 2008-12-04
Solution:  Since THumb Drives use FAT32 file systems, file sizes max at 4GB, therefore the "reserved space" setting + the original systmem size (ISO file) must total less than 4GB since the thumb drive system is one file.

This gives me a 4GB secure "system" to use while traveling - a good alternative to lugging laptops or risking malware on hotel/public operating systems.

---

