---
title: "Dual Boot stops at blinking cursor"
date: 2010-08-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by woodsonoversoul on 2010-08-17
Hi all, I just installed 10.04 on my fiancé's netbook, dual booting with Windows 7 basic. It booted (into Ubuntu) fine a couple of times, then seemed like it would only boot every 3rd or 4th time, now it's not booting at all. It flashes to a blinking cursor then stops. When I try to boot into recovery mode, it stops at:
```
[    2.81826] ata4: DUMMY
```

Any ideas?

---

### Post by woodsonoversoul on 2010-08-17
bump

---

### Post by woodsonoversoul on 2010-08-20
bump

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-08-20
Hi,
Is this a regular install to the hard-drive?

Did this start happening after installing any software or upgrades/updates?

What are the computer specifications such as RAM and graphics card?

The more you tell us, whatever you think may be relevant, the better we can offer solutions.

Thanks.

---

### Post by woodsonoversoul on 2010-08-20
I believe it's a regular hd install. I downloaded 10.04 desktop and installed from that.

I guess it did start happening more and more as I installed updates, wireless drivers, etc (but just the usual apt-get update stuff after a fresh install).

Her machine is an acer aspire one. I'll power up her comp and check on other hardware details.

What other information would be helpful?

---

### Post by silverglade00 on 2010-08-20
It might be full hard drive. Boot up with a live cd and see if the hard drive is full. If it is, you can delete everything in /var/cache/apt/archives and that might help. That is where it keeps all of the packeges you installed and updated.

---

### Post by woodsonoversoul on 2010-08-20
Thanks. I'll try that and report back

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-08-20
> What other information would be helpful?
RAM and especially graphics card please.

---

### Post by woodsonoversoul on 2010-08-20
@silverglade00 I uploaded a screenshot of GParted and Systems Monitor>File Systems. It seems like there's enough room...

@Rubi1200 an Intel GMA950

---

### Post by woodsonoversoul on 2010-09-21
bump again...

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-09-21
Post the bootscript in my signature in code tags as described. You will paste text to a reply, the code tags can be generated by clicking on the # and putting the text in between. And give a little update as to what actually boots now, and even another screenie of gparted never hurts. It's been awhile.

---

