---
title: "2.6.27-14 nvidia driver doesn't install"
date: 2009-03-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by chilimac02 on 2009-03-18
I have tried going to system-admin-hardware drivers... when I click on the activate button for my video driver (nvidia 177) it downloads, then does nothing... 

What am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by iamkrazee on 2009-03-18
You aren't doing anything wrong particularly. It's just that jockey's interface isn't as nice as you'd want. If you're on gnome, start your synaptic and download the nvidia stuff. This way, it will cut out the download part for jockey and you'll directly see the message asking you to restart for effects to take place.

---

### Post by sp176 on 2009-03-19
Had the same problem.  Works like a charm, thanks iamkrazee

---

### Post by chilimac02 on 2009-03-19
Well, that ^^ suggests that I'm the problem...

I tried installing the driver through synaptic instead to no avail. The driver installed, but when the system boots, it says that the nvidia kernel failed and that the system will start in low-graphics mode. 

I'm not really a fan of low-graphics mode, so does anyone have another suggestion for me? (Criticisms and sarcastic remarks would be appreciated too if they're funny)

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-03-19
What video card are you using, maybe 177 doens't support your graphics chip. try 173 or 180 (180 is only in synaptic)

---

### Post by Pixtu on 2009-03-19
Same problem.

I'm trying to use nVidia GeForce Go 6400 on a Sony VAIO FS315S laptop.

I've tried all three drivers (173, 177, 180) and have tried downloading/installing via synaptic as well as via System-> ... Hardware Drivers.

All result in the same failure to recognise on start up and I have to start in low graphics mode.

Not even sure how to go back to the 'standard' driver, so I'm really stuck at the moment.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-03-19
Boot into grub choose recovery mode, or use an older kernel

if you choose recovery mode pick XFix, and it should fix the graphics issue

---

### Post by Pixtu on 2009-03-19
Thanks LowSky, that has resolved the issue of low graphics mode.

Still not able to make use of the nVidia drivers though.

---

### Post by chilimac02 on 2009-03-20
yep, that fixed low-graphics mode for me too. I think I'll just wait to install the driver...

---

### Post by -LOC- on 2009-03-20
I just wanted to say that I couldn't get my driver for my NVIDIA card to install with synaptic or the GUI.  This is what I did to install it:
Go to the NVIDAIA site: ```
http://www.nvidia.com/
``` and download the driver for Linux.  The press ```
ctrl+alt+F1
```  Then in the prompt, sign in if you need to, then enter the following commands one at a time:```
sudo killall gdm
cd [path to driver on hdd]
sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-[driver number]-pkg[number].run
```  Follow onscreen directions on the installer. Then restart GDM with ```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```  I hope this helps someone who has the same problem.

---

### Post by Godly on 2009-03-26
Awesome! Thanks. :guitar:

---

