---
title: "Can you change the login screen and boot screen"
date: 2010-09-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Mainframe123 on 2010-09-23
Hello i am rather new to unbuntu !0.4 i was wondering if you can change the boot screen and log in screen.If so how would i go about doing it.

---

### Post by lkjoel on 2010-09-23
> **Mainframe123 said:**
> Hello i am rather new to unbuntu !0.4 i was wondering if you can change the boot screen and log in screen.If so how would i go about doing it.
You can, but it can be dangerous.

---

### Post by mightymouse2045 on 2010-09-23
Very easy for the login screen - just open synaptic package manager from the -> system -> administration menu.

Then enter your root password and search for ubuntu-tweak. Install this package and then open it once you have installed it. Applications -> system tools menu

Then on the left select Login settings and you can change the display image and your user icon and a few other bits. Very quick and easy :)

To change your boot image it is a little trickier and you need to research it. It's pretty easy also but it depends what you want to do.

Some people like having a nice splash screen with progress bar, other like having just text in a high resolution so it looks nice, and others like a background image and each option has different apps and settings to make it work. 

My Grub2 config file will give you an example of what you need to look at. This config will load a custom font, change the grub boot menu to 1920x1080, and load a background image with the same resolution, then keep that background right up until the login screen is loaded. 

If you use the same login background then basically you have a hi def image from the moment you turn on your computer right up until you login :)


Cheers!
Have fun!

#########################################################
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  set saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then
    saved_entry=${chosen}
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,5)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 967ebf9f-0031-4cbf-bab1-95fd2d0dba4e
if loadfont /boot/grub/fonts/myfont.pf2 ; then
set gfxmode=1920x1080x24
set gfxpayload=keep
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,5)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 967ebf9f-0031-4cbf-bab1-95fd2d0dba4e
set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
set lang=en
insmod gettext
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,5)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 967ebf9f-0031-4cbf-bab1-95fd2d0dba4e
insmod png
if background_image /usr/share/backgrounds/1_grub_image.png ; then
  set color_normal=white/black
  set color_highlight=red/black
else
  set menu_color_normal=white/black
  set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-24-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,5)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 967ebf9f-0031-4cbf-bab1-95fd2d0dba4e
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-generic root=UUID=967ebf9f-0031-4cbf-bab1-95fd2d0dba4e ro video=vesafb:ywrap,mtrr  
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-24-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,5)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 967ebf9f-0031-4cbf-bab1-95fd2d0dba4e
    echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.32-24-generic ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-generic root=UUID=967ebf9f-0031-4cbf-bab1-95fd2d0dba4e ro single 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sda1)" {
    insmod ntfs
    set root='(hd0,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 78de3198de314f9c
    chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/50_ubuntu BOOT FROM ISO IMAGE TEST###
menuentry "Ubuntu 10.04 Desktop LIVE CD ISO" {
       insmod ntfs
       set root='(hd2,1)'
       search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set B232F77432F73BC3
       loopback loop (hd2,1)/ubuntu-10.04.1-desktop-amd64.iso
       linux (loop)/casper/vmlinuz boot=casper iso-scan/filename=/ubuntu-10.04.1-desktop-amd64.iso file=(loop)/preseed/ubuntu.seed quiet splash nomodeset
       initrd (loop)/casper/initrd.lz
}
### END /etc/grub.d/50_ubuntu ###

---

### Post by Chris1274 on 2010-09-23
It's actually very easy to do both:

[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-do-you-change-the-boot-splash-screen-image-for-10-04-lucid-lynx.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-do-you-change-the-boot-splash-screen-image-for-10-04-lucid-lynx.html)

---

### Post by TNT1 on 2010-09-23
> **lkjoel said:**
> You can, but it can be dangerous.

? It can?

---

### Post by lkjoel on 2010-09-23
> **TNT1 said:**
> ? It can?
I was probably thinking of the wrong application.

---

### Post by freds3251 on 2010-09-26
Im not sure if its changed any since 9.10 to 10.04, but the way I did it for 9.10 was quite easy. I actually helped someone a while back so I kept a little step by step on how I did it. 

The very first step involved is find your picture. I have used only JPG's, so if using any other file type keep in mind why this might not work for you. Also the pictures I like to use are generally the resolution of my screen/monitor. 
	Next bring up the terminal window and type the following phrase &#8220; sudo nautilus&#8221;. You don't need quotations by the way. Just those 2 words will work. After you hit enter it will prompt for your password. This will be the password you use to login with. Hit enter and it will let you run in root/administrator. How ever you look at it. 
	A screen will popup and you can go anywhere from there. You want to follow this exact pattern to find the login screen image. 
1.click filesysterm
2.click usr
3.click share
4.click images 
5.click xsplash 
	
	Now you will see that your login picture is located here. What you want to do is write down the name of the picture. This is very important for you to either remember this name or write it down for using in a upcoming step. The picture should be called bg_2560x1600.jpg. 
	Next you can grab the picture and either delete or put in your photos folder for future use, your preference. 
	After you have removed the picture from the folder we can move on. You want to leave this screen up as well as others that may have popped up. This will leave you running as root. 
	Go and grab your picture you plan to use. You can copy, cut, or drag. Anyway works to get the picture to this folder. Now that the picture is in you can go ahead and rename the picture. This was the reason I say to remember the original pictures name. So your new picture should say bg_2560x1600.jpg.
	This is it. You have successfully changed the picture. Now just exit out of every screen so that your sitting at your desktop. 
	This last step can show you if you properly changed the picture without restarting your computer. 
	Bring up your terminal window again and type &#8220;sudo xsplash&#8221;. Again no quotations. This should bring up your login picture. To exit from this view just hit escape. Hope this helps!! 
                   - Fred -

---

