---
title: "9.10 fails at &quot;Select and Install Software&quot;"
date: 2009-12-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by KaitLynnHt on 2009-12-13
Hi hi... I'll start by saying that I am COMPLETELY new to Linux/Ubuntu.  I have wanted Linux for a long time, but besides a little Commodore/Apple 2/IBM DOS action when I was younger, I'm pretty much a Microsoft Windows lifer (been using Windows since 3.1), and like other Windows lifers I've been too scared/worried of messing with my computer to try it.  Faced with the neccessity of having to completely reinstall Windows XP, I'm given the unique opportunity to install Linux without messing with existing Setup (because there currently is no other setup >.<).  I've researched, studied and dreamed about Linux for a while, so I figured I'd grab this opportunity.  My Windows XP was already running almost ALL open source software already anyway (open source is pretty).  I see myself as pretty good with computers and such, and I know a little programming (not at all good at it, but I enjoy it all the same).

I have searched for an answer on the forums, but I haven't been able to find a solution that will work for me.  I found something similar to my problem here --> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=817983](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=817983) <-- but the solution was that he switched to Fedora.  I've looked and looked and I've made my decision and I can be just as stubborn as this software.  I want Ubuntu and I ain't giving up until it's completely hopeless.

Any who... to make a short story even longer...

As the subject says, I'm trying to install Ubuntu 9.10 and it fails on "Select and Install Software".  It slowpokes around at about 14% doing it's 969 file thing, then zooms up to about 80/85-ish% (it goes by really fast at that point so it's hard to tell exactly) when it then gives me the error.  The exact error pretty much states that the step failed and I can try again from the menu or skip it and try something else.  To hit continue takes me to a menu of installation steps.  I've tried a couple times with the same results

The disk I'm using is (finally) good.  The download hash is perfect, though I re-downloaded via torrent just in case and that was good also.  It took me a few tries but I finally have a disk that passes the Disk Integrity check thing.

I'm running the 9.10 alternate (text-based) installation on a DELL Dimension 2350/2400 (not sure which, case says one thing and startup says another), 60GB HD, Pentium (II I htink) 2.2 GHz processor, 256MB RAM.  I'm also using this post --> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=386920&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=386920&page=3) <-- as a guide since my PC is a bit better off than the one mentioned there so it should work, ne.

The other thread said something about the installation might have failed due to trying to get on the internet.  The Ubuntu Pocket Guide had said that I could choose "Do not configure network at this time".  My NIC stopped working properly a few years ago (though it might be that it'll work again with a fresh OS install) but either way, my PC is now too far away from the modem for a wired connection as I've always had to rely on a wireless usb NIC for internet access on that particular PC (which atm I'm using a cheap offbrand POS card that prolly won't even work for Linux but I'm gonna try anyway, see if I don't).  I assume if you have the option of skipping network config, that you don't NEED internet to install (thus the reason for installing from a disc and not the network).

Possible option, though not one I wish to try without confimation lest I break something: Skipping the step and installing the software after.  The base install (of the OS I assume) finished fine.  Am I correct in assuming that this step is firefox, openoffice and other open source goodies that make me squee?  Once I get the OS installed and booting/working/running/whatever, can I not download these programs from THIS computer onto a disc or USB drive and then install them?

Um... other than that.... I think that's all the information/questions I have.  If you need more information let me know and I'll give you what I can.  I can't really tell too much more about my system specs, since I've had the PC for years and I don't remember them all.  I know where to find the information on Windows, but I don't really have access to that anymore >.< thus the reason for all this.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-12-13
Hi and welcome to the forums,

is there any way you can find out more info about your computer's hardware. I suspect that Pentium2 is not a match for Ubuntu, but then there is no way a P2 can run at 2.2Ghz (that's P4).
As you rightfully mentioned, the software includes Firefox and Open Office, but also all the graphical interface Gnome provides. Ubuntu's base install is just a bare bone OS with no GUI, only a black screen Terminal.
Last, but not least, with 256MB of RAM, even if you do manage to install, Ubuntu with Firefox and Office Suite will not be a great experience. Ubuntu needs at least 512MB to run decently, and while it's a challenge to overcome the installation error, if there is no way to upgrade the RAM, I'd strongly recommend looking for a light weight distro.

---

### Post by KaitLynnHt on 2009-12-13
HAHA... you're right... it prolly is a Pentium 4 or some such like that.  Software I know, but when it comes to hardware I'm a complete dunce...

Anywho... I got it working.  (oooo... pretty and sparkly)  I kept trying while I was waiting for a reply so I guess the solution is just pure bull-headed stubbornness and determination.

Or, go make lunch, cause that's what I did during my last attempt and when I came back it was done with no errors.

I guess it's not really a solution, but it works I'll not complain and go ahead and say it's solved.

Thank you soooooo much for your reply though.  I'll keep what you said in mind.  Like I said, I wanna try this out so if it doesn't work right, I'll try something more lightweight.  But so far now that it's installed the computer is working better than when I had XP.  It lagged and crashed so badly.  

Now to figure out if I can get the wireless working... YAY!

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-12-14
Great, I guess your remarkable determination has payed of.

---

