---
title: "14.10: RWDVD-ROM not mounted/working?"
date: 2014-12-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kazeffu2000 on 2014-12-01
I dusted off one of my older laptops and decided to put lubuntu 14.10 on it so i can wipe vista off and get XP on it (with lubuntu as well). however, when i went to put the disk in it wouldn't open. i told it to manually mount at startup thinking it just didn't mount and restarted it. however i found out it isn't able to mount it because of it erroring. how do i fix this to get it to open and read anything i want to put in.

Laptop: Gateway ma8
RWDVD-ROM: HL-DT-ST DVDRAM GSA-T20N (WG02)

- The DVD-ROM does work and the CD is fine as both worked before wiping and installing lubuntu.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2014-12-02
Your post is very confusing. Is your problem that the optical drive won't physically open?

I can't figure out what this means: "i told it to manually mount at startup thinking it just didn't mount and restarted it." Perhaps you could describe exactly what you did?

---

### Post by kazeffu2000 on 2014-12-02
> **gordintoronto said:**
> Your post is very confusing. Is your problem that the optical drive won't physically open?

I can't figure out what this means: "i told it to manually mount at startup thinking it just didn't mount and restarted it." Perhaps you could describe exactly what you did?

it won't open and it won't read (went into disks and told it to manually mount at startup, restarted comp but it wouldn't mount). i realized the additional drivers app in preferences though and tried  it. i allowed the cdrom source however when it updated it popped up with  it failed and this for details.

> W:Failed to fetch  cdrom://Lubuntu 14.10 _Utopic Unicorn_ - Release i386  (20141022.1)/dists/utopic/main/binary-i386/Packages  Please use  apt-cdrom to make this CD-ROM recognized by APT. apt-get update cannot  be used to add new CD-ROMs
, W:Failed to fetch cdrom://Lubuntu 14.10  _Utopic Unicorn_ - Release i386  (20141022.1)/dists/utopic/multiverse/binary-i386/Packages  Please use  apt-cdrom to make this CD-ROM recognized by APT. apt-get update cannot  be used to add new CD-ROMs
, W:Failed to fetch cdrom://Lubuntu 14.10  _Utopic Unicorn_ - Release i386  (20141022.1)/dists/utopic/restricted/binary-i386/Packages  Please use  apt-cdrom to make this CD-ROM recognized by APT. apt-get update cannot  be used to add new CD-ROMs
, W:Failed to fetch cdrom://Lubuntu 14.10  _Utopic Unicorn_ - Release i386  (20141022.1)/dists/utopic/universe/binary-i386/Packages  Please use  apt-cdrom to make this CD-ROM recognized by APT. apt-get update cannot  be used to add new CD-ROMs
, E:Some index files failed to download. They have been ignored, or old ones used instead.

i'm still new to lubuntu in this sense.

UPDATE: tried the terminal with [this]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AptCdrom") and got: [ATTACH=CONFIG]258341[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2014-12-02
When I hear that a CD drive will not OPEN, I think you can not get the CD into the computer. Apparently that is not your problem.

You also have an unusual meaning for "mount," so I can't figure out what you actually mean.

Apparently, you downloaded 32-but Lubuntu Desktop 14.10. Is that correct? How did you burn the image?

Where did the error messages come from?

Did you go into the BIOS and tell the computer to boot from the CD?

You mentioned removing Vista and installing XP. That's not a safe thing to do; XP reached end-of-life eight months ago, and it no longer getting updates.

---

### Post by kazeffu2000 on 2014-12-02
> **gordintoronto said:**
> When I hear that a CD drive will not OPEN, I think you can not get the CD into the computer. Apparently that is not your problem.

You also have an unusual meaning for "mount," so I can't figure out what you actually mean.
I'm using mount as it is normally used in computer meaning. Ex: a usb stick first plugged in = mounted, then safely removed = unmounted.
> Apparently, you downloaded 32-but Lubuntu Desktop 14.10. Is that correct? How did you burn the image?
Yes i did, and i burned it on a different laptop of mine onto a 4gb usb stick because i did not have a CD to burn to.
> Where did the error messages come from?
after i set the DVD-rom drive to manual mount on startup, i restarted the laptop and before it would startup lubuntu fully, it would bring up the error and have me either hit "S" to skip and load the rest of the way or another key to try it again.
> Did you go into the BIOS and tell the computer to boot from the CD?
after installing lubuntu, i can tell it to run the DVD-rom drive before the hard drive or force it to boot the DVD-rom drive but it doesn't run and just goes to the hard drive load. it knows it's there but whatever driver info on lubuntu's end is needed is somehow missing if i'm correct.
> You mentioned removing Vista and installing XP. That's not a safe thing to do; XP reached end-of-life eight months ago, and it no longer getting updates.
I'm doing this for my XP games, i'm not planning on going online on the XP side but i need it because my 2gb ram is nothing on vista.

---

### Post by kazeffu2000 on 2014-12-09
so let's update this as it's still not resolved.

So, the drive for my RWDVD-ROM shows up on the computer, BUT if I tell it to mount it always says "failed to mount *name of drive*" however i have experienced random episodes where the drive seems to mount as it reads the disk in there and sometimes i can even open and close the drive before it apparently unmounts itself again.

as i've stated above, the XP side i want on here is purely for offline games that Vista was taking too much ram to even run or run properly. so, if anyone can help me figure this out as i've shut this computer down plenty of times, taken out the drive to see if there was anything wrong between the circuits but i have yet to spot any faults on the hardware's part so i'm mainly assuming it's on the software's part.

---

