---
title: "8.10 how to restore removed panel?"
date: 2008-11-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by netimen on 2008-11-24
I have removed the panel at the bottom of the screen, where application launcher, system tray etc are placed. How do I restore it?

---

### Post by fooman on 2008-11-24
there may be better ways to do it,  but when it happened to me...i just deleted the .kde folder in my home directory.  that resets kde to the default values like after you first installed.

.kde is a hidden folder,  so in order to see it...open your home directory (dolphin?) and in the toolbar click on "view".  put a check mark next to "show hidden files".  then find the .kde folder,  right-click on it and choose "move to trash".  

logout and back in again.

---

### Post by netimen on 2008-11-25
Thanks. I have solved the problem by replacing my plasma-appletsrc in .kde/share/config by a clean one

---

### Post by seren6ipity on 2008-11-25
This is another way of doing it.

If your upper panel is still visible you can right click on it and select Customize Panel. Panel-1 is upper panel and Panel-2 is lower panel. 

Select panel-2 from drop down. Select appearance (mine is 24) and fixed position. 
Below Fixed Position are rectangular boxes indicating screen placement of the panel. Select middle box on lower side. The box will turn dark gray. Click OK.

---

### Post by BETELGEUSE58 on 2009-01-04
Haha. I did it too. This worked fine.

---

### Post by FirstByté on 2009-07-06
Well, this is my own way around the panel issue ;) 'cause I mistakenly removed my upper[Menu] panel [on my** Ubuntu Jaunty 9.04**] :D
> **fooman said:**
> 
***i just deleted the .kde folder in my home directory***

 That sounded scary to me. 

Like **seren6ipity** suggested, if you still have at least one panel up this should work [*why should you mistakenly delete both panels? You must need a child-lock on your pc :p*]. Go ahead and right click on your still exiting panel [*for me it was the lower task-panel*] and click "New Panel" 

Next is the fun part:):guitar:

You'll have to right click on the new panel you've created and choose "Add to Panel". There you'll find lost of stuff you ever wanted on your panel.

However, you may consider adding "Menu Bar" as opposed to adding "Main Menu".
Next to that may be Clock, Shutdown button, Volume Control, and whatever makes you happier

Yes of cause, add "a child-lock" to the panels like me so you dont Mistakenly remove the good looking, blessed Ubuntu made Panel again!!

Note: I tried this on **Ubuntu 9.04**

---

### Post by Rnoldcast on 2010-06-20
Thanks for sharing Linuxian, This work also on my Kubuntu 10.04 Lucid I delete the .kde whis is hidden file and bingo...
:guitar:

---

### Post by helwitch on 2011-09-21
Worked on 11.04 as well, tho I was more selective in my deleting. I deleted everything in .kde/share/config that started with the word plasma. That did the trick!

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-09-21
Closed, necromancy.

---

