---
title: "9.04 sound lost"
date: 2009-10-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by halfstrike on 2009-10-04
I just updated to 9.04 yesterday and now the sound is not working  it worked fine before i updated but not since then.  I am on a dell XPS laptop
So i  need to help finding out what my problem is and then help solving the problem

     Code:
*-multimedia            
       description: Audio device
       product: 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 1b
       bus info: pci@0000:00:1b.0
       version: 02
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=HDA Intel latency=0 module=snd_hda_intel


I included my sound  chipset information if that will help you help me.

---

### Post by Li18nxBoy on 2009-10-04
It may just be something got switched off in your volume controller

open it up, trying turning stuff on/off or try different devices

---

### Post by wdzieczny on 2009-10-04
I just fixed a similar problem that I recently installed Ubuntu on when you open your volume controls make sure the master volume isn't muted. OR the particular device you want to run. I've seen strange things muted before for no apparent reason.

---

### Post by tom.swartz07 on 2009-10-05
Ive had a similar problem.
Install alsamixergui and look to make sure that the system settings for your audio are all correct. 
What I do is open alsamixer, and then crank everything all the way up, then adjust the volume with my usual methods (the volume applet or the buttons on the front of my computer)

Cheers...

---

### Post by halfstrike on 2009-10-05
How do i install alasmixergui?

---

### Post by Cheezespread on 2009-10-05
```
sudo apt-get install gnome-alsamixer
``` from the terminal.

---

### Post by halfstrike on 2009-10-05
Thanks alot.  dont know what i would do without this forum

---

