---
title: "Limits on screen resolution."
date: 2009-08-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by spiderpig773 on 2009-08-21
Hey I just recently got Ubuntu 9.04 and it is awesome, except for one thing. My current monitor has a max resolution of 1280x1024, but Ubuntu is set to 800x600. I found the utility to choose resolution, but the only options are 800x600 or 640x480. I need some help making it higher resolution, and please, whatever suggestions you give me, remember I am new and like I need step-by-step instructions, as I don't have much of a clue of what I am doing yet. Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by Liolikas on 2009-08-21
[http://www.simplehelp.net/2008/05/29/how-to-increase-the-screen-resolutions-available-to-ubuntu-804-hardy-heron-while-running-in-parallels-desktop/](http://www.simplehelp.net/2008/05/29/how-to-increase-the-screen-resolutions-available-to-ubuntu-804-hardy-heron-while-running-in-parallels-desktop/)

---

### Post by GSX550ES on 2009-08-22
I have tried this plus searching & reading lots of threads & still 5 hours later unable to get my system to run as 1280x1024 which my monitor supports. If I try what is in the link above it goes into default mode of 800x600.

My xorg.conf is 

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

If I run xrandr -q I get

   1360x768       60.0  
   1024x768       60.0* 
   800x600        75.0     72.0     60.0     56.0  
   640x480        75.0     73.0     60.0  
   680x384        60.0  
   512x384        60.0  
   400x300        75.0     72.0     60.0     56.0  

I have a Matrox not an NVidia despite buying it with a Nvidia supposedly

Sorry for the hi-jack but it is really doing my box in all I want to do is run 1280x1024@60 what's more annoying is I installed Ubuntu on the wifes PC tonight & it auto detected.

Alan...

---

### Post by Buuntu on 2009-08-22
Did you activate proprietary drivers in System > Administration > Hardware Drivers?

---

### Post by DGortze380 on 2009-08-22
What graphics card do you have?

---

### Post by staf0048 on 2009-08-22
It has to do with your graphics card.  I've had to tinker around on a few computers to get the resolution read properly.  

The first thing I'd try if I were you would be to make sure you've got the proper drivers installed.  Ubuntu does a pretty good job of getting this done for you.  Go to System, Administration, Hardware Drivers, and enable the recommended driver for your card.  See if that helps the situation.

If that doesn't do the trick type "lspci" (stands for "list PC info" I think) in the terminal to let us know what graphics card you have.  It should spit out a lot of information about your computer you can just copy and past the info in a new thread if you're not sure.

---

### Post by R_W322 on 2009-08-22
Let me know if your using a Nivida GeForce 6 series I know a great workaround.

RYAN.WDZIECZNY

---

### Post by rsiddharth on 2009-08-23
> **spiderpig773 said:**
> Hey I just recently got Ubuntu 9.04 and it is awesome, except for one thing. My current monitor has a max resolution of 1280x1024, but Ubuntu is set to 800x600. I found the utility to choose resolution, but the only options are 800x600 or 640x480. I need some help making it higher resolution, and please, whatever suggestions you give me, remember I am new and like I need step-by-step instructions, as I don't have much of a clue of what I am doing yet. Thanks for any help!
Even I have a Monitor capable of 1280 x 1024 resolution . I had the same resolution problems which you seem to have - 800 x 600 resolution , but once I upgraded my RAM card from 256MB to 1GB , the resolution rose to 1024 x 768 ( This point of time I was using ubuntu Intrepid (8.10) ) , but once I upgraded to Jaunty , the OS correctly recognized 1280 x 1024 resolution . But that doesn't end there . Occasionally I system stops recognizing my monitor and reverts back to 1024 x 768 . I found a solution to this ( to get the OS recognize my monitor and thus my max resolution ) , its rather very illogical and absurd but seems to work for me every time Jaunty fails to recognize my Monitor . 

The solution is this  : 
I shut the PC down , unplug the Monitor cable from my CPU's back panel and re-insert it , restart the system , Magically ubuntu recognizes my Monitor ! . I tried this ritual many times and it seems to always work and I am very sure that I am not bluffing .

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-08-23
Normally, resolution problems are caused by one of the monitor, the graphics card, or the graphics driver not passing the EDID information to X that lets it automatically set the correct refresh rate, and so it defaults to really low values that won't damage any monitors. You can manually set the values for your monitor by putting the VertRefresh and HorizSync ranges in your xorg.conf. You should be able to get these numbers from the manual or specifications for your monitor. These values go in the "Monitor" Section of xorg.conf.

You can edit xorg.conf with ```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``````
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
        HorizSync       aa-bb
        VertRefresh     cc-dd
EndSection

```You'll need to replace aa-dd with the values for **your** monitor.

---

