---
title: "11.4 still won't play avi files in full screen?"
date: 2011-06-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cheekymonky2010 on 2011-06-03
Please help! I have installed Ubuntu 11.4 from 10.4 and now can't play avi files in Movie Player or VLC?  is there a driver I need to find and install? or do I need to change something?

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-06-03
Your topic title says one thing your post says another....which is it?

---

### Post by cheekymonky2010 on 2011-06-03
Apologies, I've been driving myself round the bend trying to fix it! I can't play avi films! when it opens in Movie player or any other and I try to make it full screen, the computer just restarts?

---

### Post by cheekymonky2010 on 2011-06-03
Could anyone please tell me why Ubuntu 11.4 doesn't play my avi files?  worked fine when it was 10.4 now upgraded pc turns off and restarts when I try to play one?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-03
> **cheekymonky2010 said:**
> Could anyone please tell me why Ubuntu 11.4 doesn't play my avi files?  worked fine when it was 10.4 now upgraded pc turns off and restarts when I try to play one?Hi, I left you a message on the other thread, you are not suppose to start but one thread for each problem. Have you installed your restricted drivers since you upgraded?

---

### Post by zipperback on 2011-06-03
> **cheekymonky2010 said:**
> Could anyone please tell me why Ubuntu 11.4 doesn't play my avi files?  worked fine when it was 10.4 now upgraded pc turns off and restarts when I try to play one?


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683)

- zipperback
:popcorn:

---

### Post by s.fox on 2011-06-03
Please do not create duplicate threads.    Thank you.

Threads Merged.

---

### Post by cheekymonky2010 on 2011-06-03
Thank you very much and sorry for the multiple threads.  I've tried all the command lines in the thread and there's no change!  the pc still cuts out and restarts when I try to play a film.
Very disappointing as I am new to Ubuntu and had no problems with 10.4  Also have 10.10 on disk so may go to that unless anyone can offer a solution??

---

