---
title: "11.04 overscan issues from DVI to HDMI"
date: 2011-06-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Dr_Jerm on 2011-06-09
Hey everyone,

<tldr; at bottom>

Happy to be jumping into the linux community this summer, hope this finds you well. I have decided to convert a laptop (which is running oh so smoothly) and an older desktop over to ubuntu. I have dreams of setting up the older desktop as a media server/player. Installation went great, everything was a breeze on both setups.

The problem I have run into on the desktop is that there is an overscan issue (20-30 pixels on every side[sides,top/bottom] are pushed out of the viewable area) on the 720p HDTV I have it plugged into. I have done a fair amount of detective work and it seems to be a fairly common issue, especially in my particular setup which is going from DVI on the desktop to HDMI on the HDTV.

The easiest solution is to change the HDTV's settings to show all pixels, however those settings don't exist on my set (Vizio VX37L).

The next solution is to alter the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to get everything nice and customized. However from what I've read the xorg.conf file is no more as of a few versions ago. Supposedly it still can be still generated using the Xorg -configure command while in recovery mode.

Which leads me to my first question: How do I get into recovery mode? I haven't had any luck holding shift down or hitting esc to enter the grub menu.

The next set of solutions seemed a bit out of my league as a beginner. Installing better/updated ati drivers for ubuntu. As my graphics card is 'semi'-dated (ATI Radeon X1950 Pro), no advice feels current.

A direction to head from here would be great! It seems like this issue could help others who have recently upgraded to 11.04 and may come across similar overscan problems on ati cards.

tldr;

Overscan issues on ubuntu 11.04 connected to a 720p Vizio VX37L via a DVI-to-HDMI cable on a Radeon X1950 Pro card. 

~Jeremy

---

### Post by samantal on 2011-06-10
hey sam here..
I'm a newbie in this forum.
I'm hoping for your support guys..

---

### Post by Dr_Jerm on 2011-06-13
Advice?

---

### Post by LowSky on 2011-06-13
I own the same TV and it doesn't have any options for turning overscan off from the set. And unfortunatly your video card isn't supported by the proprietary driver so you cant change the setting from there.

But if you use the VGA port instead the screen will show in the correct dimensions just fine. Just use a DVI to VGA adapter.

---

### Post by cyberyaga on 2011-08-03
I have the same problem. But I have an Nvidia 9600 GT card. My TV is a Samsung, and it also doesn't have the overscan option.

@LowSky  you mention "proprietary drivers" I just updated my NVidia drivers and it doesn't have the options for overscan corrections like it does in windows.

Are there any solutions for this? 

Thanks

EDIT: Excuse my ignorance, I failed to see the slider in the NVidia X Server... I feel stupid... -_-

---

