---
title: "10.04 Hyperlink in Thunderbird not working"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by AnimalMagic on 2010-05-01
In previous releases clicking on a link in a thunderbird mail message would open the link in firefox browser. Having upgraded and copied thunderbird and firefox hidden folder across, links no longer work. 

Is there a setting to enable this?

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2010-05-01
I don't know why, but thunderbird 3 is not pre-configured to automatically handle urls and attachments, like it was in earlier releases.

To get it to open webpages, see this page:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1428679](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1428679)

---

### Post by AnimalMagic on 2010-05-01
Thanks for that...

It was already set up with firefox (default), but not working. I changed it to select 'use other' and selected /usr/bin/firefox and it now works. I guess there's something wrong with the firefox (default) setting...

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2010-05-01
I'm glad that worked out for you. 

Actually I didn't have thunderbird installed when I posted so I just got through installing it to see if the unassociation of http and https links has been fixed yet, and it looks like it has. There is no need to treat http and https links as attachments anymore. 

Ubuntu 10.04
thunderbird 3.0.4+nobinonly-0ubuntu4
thunderbird-gnome-support 3.0.4+nobinonly-0ubuntu4

I'm not sure why your's didn't launch firefox automatically though... but I think it might have been something in the difference between the thunderbird user profiles.

---

