---
title: "17.10 won't boot, programs deleted, and dependancy problems"
date: 2017-12-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tehneko on 2017-12-26
Hi there,

I'm not a computer newbie, but I'm definitely not completely comfortable with Ubuntu, so apologies if this is something I should know.

I'm running the latest 10.17, but I'm unable to do much with it. When I install anything it tells me I have unmet dependancies. When I use **sudo apt-get install**, it recommends using **apt-get --fix-broken**, which warns me it's going to delete some stuff and I should only do this of I know what I'm doing. If I don't do it, I can't install anything.

I've installed Ubuntu 10.17 twice now. First time, most of my programs, including terminal, software centre, Firefox, disappeared. Second time, I restarted, and couldn't boot.

Thanks very much for any help!

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2017-12-26
You could run
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -f
```
and choose N or no, but copy the output and post it.

---

### Post by Geoffrey_Arndt on 2017-12-26
Just so new users don't get confused by this thread title, we assume you are meaning you have installed version 17.10 instead of 10.17.     On occasion there are new users who inherit an install dvd from an old magazine which may be an old-old version such as 10.04 or 10.10.   Those old versions will not work.

How did you create the install media (what device, what software used . . . like _**Etcher**_ for example?)

[https://etcher.io/](https://etcher.io/)

BTW:    it's often best to install the latest LTS versus 9 month interim release (aka experimental) release (latest LTS is 16.04.3)

---

