---
title: "10.04 &quot;crash&quot; - now cannot choose OS at startup, only XP loads"
date: 2012-01-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by RLCGRN on 2012-01-24
I have been running 10.04 successfully for some time now (I have a dual boot), but today the OS stopped working.  On restarting the machine, regardless of which Ubuntu configuration (recovery mode or not) was chosen from the menu at the start, I could not get any response past the sign-on window, which itself did not look as it normally did.  It didn't have the usual Ubuntu format, and looked more like the screenshots of KDE I remember seeing.  There was a window with the following  error message: "Install Problem! The configuration defaults for GNOME Power Manager have not been installed correctly. Please contact your computer Administrator."  Gee, that's me, that's not going to do any good. I then tried to boot XP to get to the forums here and ask what to do, but that only initiated the Compaq system restore which reinstalled a "new from the factory" XP configuration.  It did save my personal files that were on the XP partition, and I thankfully have backups of nearly all my files from my Ubuntu partition on an external drive.  So I just went ahead and downloaded the 11.10 distro to go ahead and get back up and try it out. On trying to install however, the installation wizard indicates that I have more than just XP, I still apparently have my 10.04 available. I recall from the first time around I put all this together from extensive reading here that I need to fiddle with the bootloader or grub or something, but I cannot for the life of me figure out precisely what to do.  I've been enjoying this OS, but now it's time to admit my shortcomings and fears in the field of computing and Linux :( and get some sharp help from the good folks here:). I would like to get back to my selection of OS at machine startup, choose my 10.04 distro to boot, and then upgrade to 11.10. This way I can keep the software I've got going already like wine and sketchup and so forth without all the roadblocks of figuring all that out again (I hope), plus use XP in the exceedingly rare cases it may come in handy. 
Thank You!!

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-01-24
It sounds like the grub menu you have to load XP is just pointing to the wrong partition. This is not that uncommon. You can actually edit the menu manually.
If you boot the 11.10 live cd and get it up and running, then open a terminal and post for us the result of:
```
sudo fdisk -l
```We should be able to identify how you need to edit.
Also the utility disk called 'SuperGrubDisk' will usually be able to boot your installed OS's if grub fails you.

You should be able to install 11.10 but ideally you need to follow this route
[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/10573557/Ubuntu/ubuntu_11.10/4_install_custom.jpeg](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/10573557/Ubuntu/ubuntu_11.10/4_install_custom.jpeg)

And use the custom partitioner to point to the partitions you currently use for 10.04

---

### Post by RLCGRN on 2012-01-24
I am running on the live cd right now, XP won't start now it just displays "a disk error has occurred, press control-alt-delete to restart" .  I am tempted to just do a whole new install!! I'm just a little scared to leave the life line plus lose my 10.04 setup. Here are the results:

```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 250.1 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders, total 488397168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xcab10bee

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *          63   175761732    87880835    7  HPFS/NTFS/exFAT
/dev/sda2       470913345   488392064     8739360    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sda3       175763454   470913023   147574785    5  Extended
/dev/sda5       175763456   465281023   144758784   83  Linux
/dev/sda6       465283072   470913023     2814976   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Partition table entries are not in disk order
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 

```It looks like /dev/sda/5 is where I'll be pointing my grub when I get to that stage, correct?

Thank you so far!!

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-01-24
OK, so to me it looks like sda1 is the actual XP install
Your original Ubuntu install had shrunk sda1 to get the space to install Ubuntu, in the process it created the partition sda3 Extended, which is a container for the 2 logical partitions sda5 and 6.
Actually sda2 is the last partition on your HD

To install 11.10 you will need to make sure you have backed up any important files from Ubuntu in sda5. You can actually get to those files with a live CD. 

To install 11.10 you need to proceed with the advanced option - like this
[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/10573557/Ubuntu/ubuntu_11.10/4_install_custom.jpeg](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/10573557/Ubuntu/ubuntu_11.10/4_install_custom.jpeg)

Ignore my partitions here. But in this view: [http://dl.dropbox.com/u/10573557/Ubuntu/Ubuntu%2010.10%20Install/4.partitions-config.png](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/10573557/Ubuntu/Ubuntu%2010.10%20Install/4.partitions-config.png)
Double click sda5 and in the box select to use and format to ext4 and mount to /
Grub should just be sda, as shown here: [http://dl.dropbox.com/u/10573557/Ubuntu/ubuntu_11.10/9_choose_grub.jpeg](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/10573557/Ubuntu/ubuntu_11.10/9_choose_grub.jpeg)
That's it, just carry on from there

---

### Post by RLCGRN on 2012-01-26
I've encountered a hang-up at the install.  The window scrolls through the new features of 11.10, and the status bar at the bottom says something like "loading file packages" or similar - that's it. I tried a few different routes but it just stays stuck on that screen indefinitely (20 hours in one case).  I tried to save a screen print, but it disappeared after I rebooted to get back here.  I have a feeling something is wrong with my hard drive in the SDA1 sector, perhaps? Here is a screen print of what happens when I try to access the Presario drive (I think its referring to the sda1 files where windows lives) while using the live cd.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2012-01-26
Seems you have your work cut out for you. ;) But as the error message says, you could load your xp disk and choose repair options and run *chkdsk /f* then go from there.

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-01-26
> **RLCGRN said:**
> I've encountered a hang-up at the install.  The window scrolls through the new features of 11.10, and the status bar at the bottom says something like "loading file packages" or similar - that's it. I tried a few different routes but it just stays stuck on that screen indefinitely (20 hours in one case).  I tried to save a screen print, but it disappeared after I rebooted to get back here.  I have a feeling something is wrong with my hard drive in the SDA1 sector, perhaps? Here is a screen print of what happens when I try to access the Presario drive (I think its referring to the sda1 files where windows lives) while using the live cd.

Boot windows (You may need to use a Utility disk like: SuperGrubDisk) to do that.
Then run chkdsk /f

Although the Ubuntu CD you are using obviously boots to the Live Desktop and would seem to be OK. Can you confirm you have run the media check?

---

### Post by RLCGRN on 2012-01-27
Since I was able to recover XP via the recovery partition last time, I decided to give it a go again.  As may have been mentioned, that essentially formats that partition and reinstalls XP as if it were new.  It is working again, and I rebooted it one additional time as well, so the hard drive seems to be ok so far. I'll just reboot windows a few times like the error message says to perhaps "set" the setup. Maybe last time I only recovered windows once without rebooting, then tried to run and install the Ubuntu, and some particular setting didn't get made that results from that process.  I'll try the chkdsk/f thing now...
Wish me luck!

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-01-27
Just so it's clear
[http://support.microsoft.com/kb/315265](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/315265)

---

