---
title: "9.10 impossible to see anything on the scree for one user"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Juacif on 2009-11-04
Hi,
 

 

 after upgrading to 9.10 I was making some adjustments to the ”themes”, I changed the fonts from sans to arial. After this I cannot see anything on my screen, the only way to exit is the power button...
 

 I have another user with no privileges and there the graphics work perfectly. I have all my private stuff in the other account so I need desperately to reset the screen settings.
 

 The only thing I have managed to find during the last three days is to edit the xorg.conf  with sudo.
 It seem to me meaningless to do anything related to editing the xorg.conf file due to the fact that this is not user specific, I believe?
](*,) 

 

 

 Please help me out
 Regards
 Juan

---

### Post by ikisham on 2009-11-04
At the gdm (login) screen put your user name then select 'failsafe gnome' in 'session' in the bar at the bottom of the screen. This may eventually allow you to log in to your session and revert the changes made.

---

### Post by Juacif on 2009-11-04
Hi,
 

 

 Thanks for helping!
 

 Yes ,I have tried with that both from the gdm (login) screen and direct after resetting the computer after hitting &#8221;ESC&#8221;.  
 

 I have tested all the repair modes listed on that screen with no success. The screen is totally disordered, is like a noise picture from TV black/white but in my case with lots of colors and &#8221;stable&#8221;...
 

 

 Regards
 Juan

---

### Post by ikisham on 2009-11-05
I'm thinking of two things and they're both not much 'technical'.
One would be you boot in the live-cd, open your home folder, press ctrl-h to see the hidden objects and maybe edit/delete some stuff .Like there's a .fontconfig folder, but I really don't know what would happen if you deleted it. Maybe Ubuntu would create a new one, maybe it would get things worse?
The other would be backup you data (if you don't have another partition you could then resize the current one and create another with gparted - in the live-cd) and reinstall.

I always have my data (documents, videos etc.) in another partition and when installing I select to mount it as /data (then you can even link it to the folders in your /home partition so whatever you put in them gets saved in the other safe partition).

---

### Post by Juacif on 2009-11-05
Thanks for the advice, I will keep this in mind if there is no other that might know what to do.
 

 Rgs / Juan

---

### Post by ikisham on 2009-11-05
To remove all your settings you could login to session *xterm* then navigate to your home folder (I guess you'll already be there) and do a
```
rm -r .*
```
Which would delete all your hidden directories and files.

I asked somewhere else (in another forum) if that would be problematic (I'm guessing it may be not) but didn't receive a response yet. So it's just a 'heads-up'.
If you find out it's ok, go for it.

---

### Post by ikisham on 2009-11-06
The guy I asked said it's ok. So you could log to your main user account (the one with problems) by selecting *xterm* in the session box and do the command
```
rm -r .*
```

That will clear all the software settings in your account.
Then you do
```
sudo reboot
```
and hopefully the default setings wil be recreated.

---

### Post by Juacif on 2009-11-07
Hi,

after some heavy reading of manuals, sites and forums, I come to the conclusion that the best way to resolve my problem was (not found anyware, but just common sense);
1. Make my unprivilaged user to have full privilages; by editing the group file with "vi" or "visudo". Of course by first backing upp the /etc/group file to /etc/group.old by the "cp" commande in sudo
2. Move the unprivilaged user to the group with full privilage, "sudo groupadd"
3. after that I could move the files from my old admin user to the now "unprivilaged" used with admin rights 0 full privilages ;-)
4. delete the old user
5. remove all file, cd /home/user,  "sudo rm -r *", "sudo rmdir user"

I was forced to use unix commands that I used for 15 years ago, like "ls -l", "cd", "cp", "vi", etc
So, something good come out of this issues ;-)


Thanks for trying to help!
/Juan

---

