---
title: "8.10 Intrepid Upgrade question"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by HittingSmoke on 2008-10-31
I've never once used Windows Update to upgrade to a new service pack. For any seasoned Windows user the reasons for this are obvious and aggravating.

How smooth is this in Ubuntu? I would like to just use the upgrade manager but I've come across snippets of information suggesting that as in Windows, its better to get the updates on the latest CD and do a fresh install.

It's not a huge issue because I have all my important data on a separate drive but after a few months on my first successful Ubuntu install, its been highly modified and I would like to avoid going though all those steps again to set up my system the way I like.

Thanks

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2008-10-31
If you're using Hardy 8.04 I'd stick with that as it's long term release (unlike Intrepid which will be superseded in 6 months time by Jaunty Jackalope).  If you do decide to use Intrepid it's probably best to perform a full clean install as this is more reliable.

---

### Post by th89 on 2008-10-31
I had a heavily modded system running hardy heron, and I went ahead and upgraded. It retained almost everything with the exception of a sound issue in Firefox that was quickly resolved, and my Wacom tablet drivers (I have a touchscreen laptop). Personally, I think the upgrade was worth it, if only for the better wifi support. You wont notice any big changes, but there's a noticable amount of little tweaks that seem to go a long way. Personally, I'd recommend upgrading it, but be aware you may have a little time tweaking small stuff again.

---

### Post by HittingSmoke on 2008-10-31
Thanks for the advice. I think I'll just stick to Hardy for the moment. I dont use Wifi for my desktop PC so I'll just do a little more research on the changes and decide if it's worth the effort to me.

---

