---
title: "touch pad....again"
date: 2009-09-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by demeter on 2009-09-30
[SIZE=2]Ive been so focused on the touch screen issue of my laptop that its just today that I have discovered that I also got an issue on my touch pad. When I installed jaunty, I have a mouse attached and works just fine. Didnt bother much coz whenever I use the touch pad,the cursor just moves fine. then, when I brought my laptop at work, I discovered that the left click, right click and scroll buttons doesnt respond. I could move the cursor just fine but the buttons just dont respond. I could live without the touch screen function but not without the click buttons....help please...[/SIZE]

---

### Post by pawhtiobo on 2009-09-30
Hi :)

Something is wrong with your xorg.conf, here is part of mine, compare to yours:

Section          "InputDevice"
        Identifier            "Configured Mouse"
        Driver                    "mouse"
        Option                   "CorePointer"
        Option                   "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option                   "Protocol"              "ExplorerPS/2"
        Option                    "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5 6 7"
        Option                   "Buttons"               "9"
EndSection

Section         "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver                  "synaptics"
        Option                   "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option                   "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option                  "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        **Option                "SHMConfig"             "on"**
        Option                  "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

You can also, just enable **SHMconfig** in xorg.conf and install gsynaptics (assuming it's a synaptics touchpad) from the package manager and do the changings in that GUI.

see ya...

---

### Post by demeter on 2009-09-30
[SIZE=2]thanks for the reply, heres what I've got in my xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

It seems that I'm missing a lot...:confused: and yes its is synaptics....thanks....
[/SIZE]

---

### Post by OffAxis on 2009-09-30
I think the new 'preferred' method is setting up hal fdi files.

Try these pages:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad)

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Input](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Input)

---

### Post by demeter on 2009-10-03
Been able to install gynaptics and the touch pad worked as long as the mouse is connected. When I tried to use without the mouse attached, the laptop would freeze during boot up. I never imagined that it would be this difficult on my laptop, however, got no problems with the desktop, its all running fine on ubuntu...thanks

---

