---
title: "11.10 Desktop"
date: 2012-03-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by suomalainen on 2012-03-01
Ubunteros,

I changed over to 11.10 yesterday and the first thing I noticed is that the bloody desktop is much different than the classical GNOME desktop.

Regardless, I'd like to learn something new and give this a bash. First off, if you look the attached pic I provided you will see that there is suppose to be one desk top with two open windows. This is not the case and I want to know why this is happening. e.g. 2 open windows appearing? Secondly, Although 4 desktops appear, it isn't possible to move between them. This leads me to believe th something must be "enabled"???

I'd appreciate any assistance that can be offered. Thank you!!!

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-03-01
That's just the icon. I have 6 workspaces with all sorts of windows open and it still looks like that.

After clicking the desktop switcher, double click the one you would like to move to.

---

### Post by suomalainen on 2012-03-01
> Secondly, Although 4 desktops appear, it isn't possible to move between them. This leads me to believe th something must be "enabled"???

But I stated this.....................

---

### Post by winh8r on 2012-03-01
Hi.

take a look here for how to get back to the "classic" gnome desktop:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859960]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859960")

You might also want to try the excellent MATE desktop environment which you can get from here:
[http://mate-desktop.org/]("http://mate-desktop.org/")

The 4 panel window on your screen is the workspace switcher and you should be able to select a workspace from it by double clicking on the one you want. To get it to open.

Hope this helps you.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-03-01
So nothing happens if you use the mouse or your arrow keys to switch desktops?

---

### Post by pierreyy on 2012-03-01
the user interface you have is called UNITY, it was put as a default for ubuntu from 11.04 onward. if you would like to go back to go back to gnome you can download it by opening the terminal and entering this command  ```
 apt-get install gnome 
```   anw the screen shot is the workspace switcher, by default you have 4 desktops to switch between use a combination of  " CTRL + ALT + the arrow buttons "    upon clicking on the icon you will see all 4 desktops at the same time.  anw happy learning and dont hesitate to ask if you have futher questions, Good luck!

---

### Post by suomalainen on 2012-03-01
Cool... justdownloaded some updates and not my desktop works...

Thanks everyone!!

P.S. Which is better Thunderbird or Evolution. I use Google and thus likeEvolution.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2012-03-01
In my opinion Thunderbird is best and simple .

---

### Post by suomalainen on 2012-03-01
I'm marking this as solved.

HOWEVER,thses 4 desktops work only when they want to. I hope 12.04LTS is better. Right now everything is very much flaky....

---

