---
title: "14.04 from usb if idle blanks monitor [standby lit] computer on cannot recover"
date: 2014-05-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nu2u904 on 2014-05-23
Can run 14.04 from usb but if idle few minutes monitor goes blank indicator  goes from green to amber; computer power indicator remains blue; cannot recover; must reboot the computer [HP Z400 work station]
Thanks, Donald

---

### Post by dan107 on 2014-05-24
There should be a setting in the bios to stop the power management kicking in. Something like s3 or s4 power settings.

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2014-05-24
is this a laptop or desktop? either way, look within the settings for power management, tune them to your liking

---

### Post by nu2u904 on 2014-05-30
> **nu2u904 said:**
> Can run 14.04 from usb but if idle few minutes monitor goes blank indicator  goes from green to amber; computer power indicator remains blue; cannot recover; must reboot the computer [HP Z400 work station]
Thanks, Donald

Thank you Dan and Danny Boy. It was't the bios or the power management. It was under Display Lock Screen. I found the live version had set the timer to 15 minutes. I reset the timer to never and that was that except if the display is locked or  the shutdown suspend  option is clicked the system suspends and can't be unsuspended. Pressing any key  returns power from blinking light to normal blue and nothing happens. The only way tocover is to reboot . Since both the display timer and suspend behave in the same way  on my usb key version of u14.04 is this a system bug or something else?

How do i check the usb for errors? In this version the opening screen only offers 'Try Me' or 'Install' and not the check disk or function key option in previos version of ubuntu.

Thank you, Donald

---

