---
title: "keyboard+mouse+ibex"
date: 2008-12-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sameer.india on 2008-12-11
I have upgraded to ubuntu intrepid Ibex. But now a new problem has emerged. Sometime while I am using my computer for sometime suddenly the key board stops working and the mouse-clicks are in effective.
All I can do is Ctrl+Alt+Bsp to loguot and login back. Every thing starts working again.

---

### Post by spikoley on 2008-12-11
Are you on a Dell laptop?  It sounds similar to a [bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpid/+bug/285323") effecting Dell laptops.

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2008-12-11
hi sameer.india,
can you give us some details about your specs and post the output of the xorg file:
```

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
[B][SIZE=2]
[/SIZE][/B]

---

### Post by sameer.india on 2008-12-11
sameer@Sameer-laptop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by sameer.india on 2008-12-11
> **spikoley said:**
> Are you on a Dell laptop?  It sounds similar to a [bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpid/+bug/285323") effecting Dell laptops.

No I am using a lenovo y500

---

### Post by sameer.india on 2008-12-22
any ideas???????????

---

### Post by sameer.india on 2008-12-22
it usually happens while changing the volume in vlc

---

