---
title: "12.04 - Multiple wireless authentication windows"
date: 2012-09-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lirantha on 2012-09-25
I'm running Ubuntu 12.04 as the main OS on a desktop I built.  It's set to lock the screen after 10 min. or so of inactivity.  When I wake it up and log in, occasionally the wireless has disconnected and is prompting me for my wireless password, even though it's set to save the password and connect automatically.

Issue 1: When it does this, I cannot reconnect to my wireless network unless I either disable and then reenable wireless, or restart the machine.  The password is correct, but it will still attempt to connect for 30 s to a minute and fail every time.  Not too big of a deal; the wireless on my Mac freaks out the same way sometimes, too, and I just reset it and move on.  But then there's issue 2.

Issue 2: Sometimes I leave the machine running for hours between log ins.  During that period of time, it seems to be trying to reconnect to the wireless network on its own, over and over again.  I've logged in and had thirty or more wireless authentication windows sitting in the middle of my screen waiting to be canceled or closed.  This last time, I'd gone for about a day without logging in, and there were so many wireless authentication windows open that the network manager had apparently stalled - I couldn't close any of the windows, cancel, or even press connect.  Had to restart to get rid of them.

Question 1: Is there a simple solution to the wireless authentication failure thing, or should I just keep turning the wireless off and back on when it happens?

Question 2: Is there a way to get the Network Manager to actually wait for user  input before opening another dialog box attempting to connect to the same  wireless network?

Question 3: If the answer to question 2 is "no", is there a quick way (CLI or otherwise) to shut down multiple dialog boxes like that all at once?  I tried right clicking and shutting down the program from the launcher last time, but that didn't work.

I have just enough of an understanding of the command line interface to get myself into serious trouble trying to follow directions I find online, so any help would be appreciated.  :)

---

### Post by lirantha on 2012-09-27
> **lirantha said:**
> Issue 1: When it does this, I cannot reconnect to my wireless network unless I either disable and then reenable wireless, or restart the machine.  The password is correct, but it will still attempt to connect for 30 s to a minute and fail every time.  Not too big of a deal; the wireless on my Mac freaks out the same way sometimes, too, and I just reset it and move on.  But then there's issue 2.
To correct this: Sometimes, apparently, disabling and reenabling wireless doesn't work either, and I just have to restart.  -_-

---

### Post by Aeodwrath on 2012-10-05
I have exactly the same problem in 12.04 on both by notebook and my desktop.  Look forward to a solution on this forum.

---

