---
title: "9.10 Proprietary Drivers / live CD"
date: 2010-02-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jingle on 2010-02-07
Ok chaps I'm all confused.  I've got a Broadcom based wifi card, and am struggling to get 9.10 working as unless I boot into XP I've no internet access to download the appropriate driver :@  

I tested 9.10 using the live CD and after booting it came up with teh restricted drivers window listing my wifi card (and graphics).  upon clicking on activate, nothing happened... I presumed this was due to the fact I was running from CD not a harddrive.

So I install 9.10, and after boot, when I go to the hardware drivers, it doesn't list any restricted drivers.  This is rather confusing... Why not?  when it does when using the same OS on a live CD?     

and how the hell can I get the appropriate restricted drivers and stick them on a cd or something I can then use to get my internet working.

I really like 9.10 and the whole open source philosophy thing, but if you can't get on the internet after installing the damn thing, ubuntu just isn't going to get anywhere :S

and yes I know the whole legal thing about distributing the drivers, I know we can't but some decent instructions, BEFORE installing would be useful!  Make this bit more user friendly and I think ubuntu will take off a lot more.

---

### Post by ikt on 2010-02-07
> **Jingle said:**
> if you can't get on the internet after installing the damn thing, ubuntu just isn't going to get anywhere :S

The broad majority of installations connect to the internet without issue, that said wireless issues are fanatically known alongside adobe flash's worthlessness.

> and how the hell can I get the appropriate restricted drivers and stick them on a cd or something I can then use to get my internet working.

Is an ethernet cable/network cable not available?

> I've got a Broadcom based wifi card

If you are able to transfer/save text onto a usb drive or onto the windows partition, in terminal (Applications > Accessories > Terminal) run:

```
lspci
```

and if you run 

```
iwconfig
```

as well does it list _wlan0_ or anything similar?

---

### Post by subodh.rohilla on 2010-02-07
Download [ndiswrapper]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper") and It works with almost all wifi cards. Just run the software and browse for the .ini file of driver in windows xp. The, the wifi will work perfectly in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-02-07
Connect your computer to the router via an Ethernet cable. Go into Synaptic Package Manager and hit the Reload button to load the package list. Now you can go to Hardware Drivers and install the Broadcom firmware.

Note that this firmware cannot be redistributed, which is why it does not appear on the CD. Broadcom is the only wireless vendor to require non-free firmware to be loaded by the driver, thus the reason for this extra step. Normally, wireless cards work out-of-the-box.

---

### Post by ikt on 2010-02-08
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Connect your computer to the router via an Ethernet cable. Go into Synaptic Package Manager and hit the Reload button to load the package list. Now you can go to Hardware Drivers and install the Broadcom firmware.

Do the drivers not show up in jockey unless it's plugged in to the internet?

---

