---
title: "8.04 messed up: max resolution 640x400!"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by peterkeyani on 2008-04-28
Hi

Updated 7.10 to 8.04 on the day and it worked fine.

Did a fresh install of 8.04 today and now the maximum screen resolution is just 640x400! (I was using 1024x720) before. Thats with the restricted drivers.

System is dual core amd64 4400/ 1 Gb RAM/ Geforce 6200

I'm sitting here grinding my teeth so I would be VERY grateful for your help!

Thanks
Pete

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2008-04-28
Do you have installed the drivers for the graphic card?

You can also try to reconfigure the xserver with:

```
sudo dpkg --reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by peterkeyani on 2008-04-28
Hi I did download the restricted drivers when prompted after installation.

Typed that line in : now what?

Thanks

Pete

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2008-04-28
I will never learn it, that's the correct line:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by peterkeyani on 2008-04-28
Well I tried that but that only gave me options for reconfiguring my keyboard not my screen resolution which is still stuck at 640x400.

---

### Post by santaslittlehelper on 2008-04-28
Maybe it's your monitor. 
Can you post,
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
and name and model on your monitor.

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-28
In response to Michael.Godawski I think to generate a new xorg.conf file (which may allow you to change your screen resolution) you type ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
``` though I am not 100% sure (it's worth a try though).

---

### Post by Abetorius on 2008-04-28
Simple way to fix most problems with installing non-free drivers is to install EnvyNG and run it. Nice script that should set everything automatically. Tried in in beta two weeks ago and worked perfectly.

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-04-28
With the Gforce 6200 I believe you need to run the nvidia-glx driver, not the nvidia-glx-new driver.  The easiest way to set this up is to run Envy.  Select manual mode and select the middle driver from the list of 3.  This will load the nvidia-glx driver.  Then run:
> sudo nvidia-settings
to setup your resolution and refresh rate.

---

### Post by Abetorius on 2008-04-28
> **alienexplorers said:**
> With the Gforce 6200 I believe you need to run the nvidia-glx driver, not the nvidia-glx-new driver.  The easiest way to set this up is to run Envy.  Select manual mode and select the middle driver from the list of 3.  This will load the nvidia-glx driver.  Then run:

to setup your resolution and refresh rate.

GF6200 is supported in nvidia-glx-new.
[Here is the list]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-9755/README/appendix-a.html")

---

### Post by redbob on 2008-04-28
My box has NVIDIA 6100 and I did a 8.04 fresh install. Everything worked fine, including in this, my video card (my video is onboard). That's the first time I got a very good configuration for my video without need to install Envy. When I had this problem the cause was improper drive. Did you have enabled NVIDIA restricted drivers? Inf Hardy you go System > Administration > Hardware Drivers.

---

### Post by peterkeyani on 2008-04-28
> **santaslittlehelper said:**
> Maybe it's your monitor. 
Can you post,
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
and name and model on your monitor.

Its a SAMSUNG SyncMaster900 IFT

pete@pete-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"      "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Generic Video Card"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Busid           "PCI:0:13:0"
        Option          "AddARGBVisuals"        "True"
        Option          "AddARGBGLXVisuals"     "True"
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        Horizsync       30-70
        Vertrefresh     50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Generic Video Card"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        Defaultdepth    24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
        Inputdevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        Inputdevice     "Configured Mouse"

        # Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
        #       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
        Load            "glx"
EndSection
pete@pete-desktop:~$

---

### Post by peterkeyani on 2008-04-28
Since nothing else seems to work, I reinstalled 7.10 and updated it to 8.04. Not elegant but it works. I now have 1024x760. I must say that I am quite dissapointed by hardy if such a simple thing as screen resolution is such a pain to change. I would like a higher resolution than I have right now - I  use 1260x1024 in the XP partition on the same pc - but that seems very difficult to do in Hardy. The basics really have to be worked out!

Thanks for your comments.
pete

---

### Post by ryanhaigh on 2008-04-28
Once you are logged in press alt-f2 to bring up the run dialog and enter nvidia-settings. Use that to configure your resolution. If it works you can run it as root using gksudo nvidia-settings and save the config to xorg.conf

The command nvidia-xconfig may also be useful to you, have a look at the man page. eg sudo nvidia-xconfig --mode=1024x768

> Since nothing else seems to work, I reinstalled 7.10 and updated it to 8.04. Not elegant but it works. I now have 1024x760. I must say that I am quite dissapointed by hardy if such a simple thing as screen resolution is such a pain to change. I would like a higher resolution than I have right now - I use **1260x1024** in the XP partition on the same pc - but that seems very difficult to do in Hardy. The basics really have to be worked out!

Thanks for your comments.
pete

Do you mean 1280x1024? You should have no problems getting that resolution using nvidia-settings.

---

### Post by amerioz on 2008-04-28
its supposed to work even on hardy!
sometimes video card has a big role on that , but I'm sure your video card supports the resolution you want to set.
you need to get nvidia-settings and run it with sudo as some ppl mentioned that before
I'm using 1440x900 resolution  with nvidia-settings

---

### Post by santaslittlehelper on 2008-04-28
> **peterkeyani said:**
> Its a SAMSUNG SyncMaster900 IFT
[http://www.amazon.com/Samsung-900-IFT-CRT-Monitor/dp/tech-data/B00004Z9IV/ref=de_a_smtd](http://www.amazon.com/Samsung-900-IFT-CRT-Monitor/dp/tech-data/B00004Z9IV/ref=de_a_smtd)
# Horizontal frequency: 30 to 96 KHz
# Vertical frequency: 50 to 160 Hz

Nope don't seem to be it.

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-04-28
> **Abetorius said:**
> GF6200 is supported in nvidia-glx-new.
[Here is the list]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-9755/README/appendix-a.html")

My board is a nvidia gforce fx 5200 and it is listed on that list, but it only works with the nvidia-glx driver.

---

### Post by peterkeyani on 2008-04-28
Well now that Ive updated my 7.10 to 8.04 I can use nvidia settings to change the resolution to 1280x1024 so thats good but I would have been a lot more impressed if when I did the fresh install of 8.04 I could have changed the screen resolution so easily. Prehaps its something that can be worked on by somebody and included in an update?

Thanks for your help!
pete

---

