---
title: "8.04.1 Kernal Bood Cd iso? to boot usb pendrive?"
date: 2008-09-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by 1of7billion on 2008-09-21
How can i make this, or is there already one around somewhere?

my laptop does not support usb booting.

its harddrive has died. i need to use usb untill i get a new sata drive.



any help would be nice  :-):guitar::confused:

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2008-09-22
WOW, This sounds like a great idea.
Something like 'boot from first hard disk' on the install CD.
That did not work for me though.

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2008-09-22
1of7billion:
I have been playing with this a bit.
If I add the following at the end of /boot/grub/menu.lst, I get the option to boot from thumbdrive by hitting ESC at grub:

title       Ubuntu Thumb Drive
root        (hd4,0)
kernel      /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=e9e69233-ddcd-476d-8999-a4f67cf863ea ro quiet splash
initrd      /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic

I used: sudo grub, find /boot/grub/stage1 to get (hd4,0)
and used: sudo blkid, to get e9e69233-ddcd-476d-8999-a4f67cf863ea


So far this has only worked on a computer that is able to boot flash media.

On an older computer I get a message that the number of cylinders exceeds what is allowed by BIOS.

It is seeming like BIOS needs to be able to understand the media before we can boot from it.

---

### Post by 1of7billion on 2008-09-24
i'm using an alt linux distro, and would like to go back to ubuntu

it uses a kernel methyod where the disk loads up the kernal then loads the rest of the info off the pen drive to get it working, the kernal is loaded off the cd


i'm not sure if you could do this with ubuntu but it would be very usefull


edit: I am but a noob to linux, but my search skills do work, really want to use ubuntu again its great.


found this:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootFromUSB](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootFromUSB)

has info on how to make one, i'll have to try when i have time, need to get some sleep

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2008-09-24
#1:
I gave the instructions at your link a shot.
Bless you, it works.
I had a computer that I could boot USB Flash from.
I did all the work booted from the Pendrive rather than from the Live CD.
The only change I made was because my usb boot partition is sda3 and not sda1
Let me know if you have any problems.
Thanks

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2008-09-26
Update:
The old computer was booting the USB flash drive just fine using the boot CD.
However I was slow getting the CD in one time and the modified stick booted all by itself.
I will try it on an even older motherboard and see what happens.


Tried it on an old P4VMM2 MB and it works there also, but only with the Boot CD

---

### Post by gregphil on 2008-09-27
You need to boot from some media (the BIOS alone can't do it all)

It would be possible to boot from CD and then have GRUB (on the CD) transfer control to an installation on the USB drive.  My BIOS can't boot to USB and yet I have a setup where I boot from SATA and then my GRUB menu has an option to start in an installation (KDE4) on an external USB drive.  All that was needed was to copy the kernel image and initrd image to the boot device (in /boot) and then edit the GRUB entry to point at the correct /boot directory on the USB disk.  This can be tricky because linux assigns it's own names for disks that can be in a strange order.  And changing the BIOS boot order changes the linux disk names ! ! !

The trouble with this approach (booting from CD and then to USB) is you would need to burn a new CD for each attempt at editing the startup files.  This could be more trouble than it is worth.

Here is what my /boot/grub/menu.lst looks like:  Note how the final (KDE4) entry starts on "(hd1,0)" but the kernel line sets the "root" to a different disk (external USB), that is the long UUID= number.  For reference Windows is on the primary IDE disk, the BIOS is set to boot to SCSI (=SATA), ubuntu 8.04.1 in on the first SATA disk, kubuntu 8.04.1 (and GRUB) are on the second SATA disk, and finally KDE4 kubuntu 8.04.1 is on an external USB disk.  I don't know why the BIOS chooses to boot to the second SATA disk (instead of the first) but it does.  This configuration has been working fine for the last month or so.

[html]<code>

title        Microsoft Windows XP Professional
root        (hd2,0)
savedefault
makeactive
map        (hd0) (hd2)
map        (hd2) (hd0)
chainloader    +1

title        Ubuntu  kernel 2.6.24-19-generic
root        (hd0,0)
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=3196e3f5-d538-4a64-aad8-b3eda368d85b ro quiet splash 
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic
savedefault
boot

title        Kubuntu kernel 2.6.24-19-generic
root        (hd1,0)
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=8441227a-acd7-4bda-9aaa-d74251eee147 ro quiet splash
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic
quiet

title        KDE 4.1 kernel 2.6.24-19-generic
root        (hd1,0)
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=30252918-934c-435e-b092-5cdc4b969dfc ro quiet splash rootdelay=15
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic
savedefault
boot

</code>[/html]

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2008-09-27
gregphil:
I tried your method first, it works ok on newer machines.
On an older machine I get a message that the number of cylinders exceeds what is allowed by BIOS.
I understand this needs to be taken care of with the line:
-boot-load-size 4
The boot from SATA method will probably not work for #1 as he said his HDD is fried.
The Boot From USB method mentioned in Ubuntu Documentation works and should not be a problem to modify if written to rewritable CD.
Menu.lst and xconf.org are booted as written on the USB and not on the CD.
I have modified mine several times to get restricted drivers working and my grub options in the right order.

---

### Post by gregphil on 2008-09-28
I agree, if you look closely I was suggesting a boot from CD to then have GRUB transfer control to the USB disk.  I was simply using my boot from SATA setup as an example.  I do agree that older BIOS may need special GRUB line options to deal with disks larger than the original DOS size limit.

Disk drives are so cheap these days that the obvious solution is to buy a replacement drive for a few tens of dollars.

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2008-09-28
Yeah, I tried it off a HDD first myself, easier than burning CD's. 
I agree that a new SATA drive is the obvious choice.
However, I'm currently fascinated with flash drives and want one that will work on any old computer.

This is my thumbdrive menu.lst that seems to be working ok for now.


title           Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic (generic)          
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=09f0dd65-697f-429a-8fcd-e86896e8da84 ro quiet splash switchconf=generic
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic
quiet

title           Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic (office)          
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=09f0dd65-697f-429a-8fcd-e86896e8da84 ro quiet splash switchconf=office
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic
quiet

title           Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic (laptop)          
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=09f0dd65-697f-429a-8fcd-e86896e8da84 ro quiet splash switchconf=laptop
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic
quiet

title           Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic (hdtv)          
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=09f0dd65-697f-429a-8fcd-e86896e8da84 ro quiet splash switchconf=hdtv
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic
quiet

title		Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic (recovery mode)
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=09f0dd65-697f-429a-8fcd-e86896e8da84 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic


title		Ubuntu 8.04.1, memtest86+
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet


title        Other operating systems:
root


title		Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic
root		(hd3,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=e9e69233-ddcd-476d-8999-a4f67cf863ea ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic
savedefault
boot

# second thumbdrive
title thumbdrive
root (hd1,2)
chainloader +1
boot


# on /dev/sda1
title        Microsoft Windows 2000 Professional
root        (hd0,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader    +1


# on /dev/sdb1
title        Microsoft Windows XP Professional
root        (hd1,0)
savedefault
makeactive
map        (hd0) (hd1)
map        (hd1) (hd0)
chainloader    +1

---

