---
title: "INstalled Ubuntu 8.04 &amp; need help with resolution settings"
date: 2008-06-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Samurai Penguin on 2008-06-06
I just installed Ubuntu 8.04 and installed Restricted Drivers for nVidia
(7025 integrated graphics) and upon reboot the refresh rate was 85Hz. When
I set the resolution to 1024 x x768 to refresh rat changed to 54H
I can't stand the flicker. How do I adjust the refresh rate to 85Hz?

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-06-06
> **Samurai Penguin said:**
> I just installed Ubuntu 8.04 and installed Restricted Drivers for nVidia
(7025 integrated graphics) and upon reboot the refresh rate was 85Hz. When
I set the resolution to 1024 x x768 to refresh rat changed to 54H
I can't stand the flicker. How do I adjust the refresh rate to 85Hz?

Create a backup of your current xorg.conf file:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```

Open your current xorg.conf file for editing:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Then try to paste the (Bold) lines of text to the bottom most of your "Monitor" section

[B]```
        HorizSync 30-110
        VertRefresh 50-160

```[/B]

Sample output should be like this:

> Section "Monitor"
Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
HorizSync 30-110
VertRefresh 50-160
EndSection


Save the edited xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by Samurai Penguin on 2008-06-07
ok, adding that info worked. It's running at 85Hz
now I need to be able to select a resolution greater 
than 640 x 480
what lines must I add?

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-06-07
> **Samurai Penguin said:**
> ok, adding that info worked. It's running at 85Hz
now I need to be able to select a resolution greater 
than 640 x 480
what lines must I add?

Post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by Samurai Penguin on 2008-06-07
Still on 640 x 480 and 800 x 600 both @ 60Hz ...
85Hz refresh rate change didn't take upon reboot.
I need 1024 x 768 and 1152 x 864 both at 85Hz
Here's a copy of my current xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:0:18:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	HorizSync 30-110
	VertRefresh 50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	32
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	32
		Virtual 1152	864
		Modes		"1152x864@85
	EndSubSection
	EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-06-07
You try this:

Open your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file for editing:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

When the gedit window opens with your current xorg.conf file loaded, select all the text and delete it. Copy and Paste the lines of text below to replace the lines of text you deleted. Save your new xorg.conf file. Restart your gdm.

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Boardname "vesa"
Busid "PCI:0:18:0"
Driver "nvidia"
Screen 0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
        HorizSync 30-110
        VertRefresh 50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Configured Video Device"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
        DefaultDepth 24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth 24
                Modes "1280x1024"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
Load "glx"
Load "v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection


```

---

### Post by Samurai Penguin on 2008-06-07
ok, did as you said, deleted all text then copy/paste.
During reboot, the nVidia logo flashes and I have access
to all needed resolution settings but the refresh rate is 
still at 54Hz ...

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-06-07
What could that be :confused::confused::confused: If we replace refresh rate,  resolution becomes a problem - If we replace resolution, refresh rate becomes a problem :confused:

Had you tried changing refresh rate at System->Preferences->Screen Resolution?

---

