---
title: "9.10 install fails to boot"
date: 2010-01-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bsu74 on 2010-01-26
I am a complete novice with Ubuntu.  I have just spent 4 hours trying to install 9.10 and failing.

The install runs fine, goes to reboot and comes up with 'device not found, press any key'

I have a suspicion I may know what it happening but not sure how to work around.  I am using a second machine and have tried two different HDD's to install on.  However I did notice that when 9.10 was installing it called the HDD SCSI1.

However all my HDD's are IDE, could the bootloader be looking for a SCSI drive and how can I persuade the installer to recognise the HDD as IDE.  BIOS recognized it no problems.

I so want this to work as I have really want a stable, virus free computer.

---

### Post by gnack on 2010-01-26
What's the device boot order from your BIOS?  It sounds like the hard disk might not be an option.

Where did you see your hd refered to as "SCSI1"?  The disks in the install are usually referred to with names like "sda" or "hda"

---

### Post by bsu74 on 2010-01-26
BIOS boot sequence is IDE-0, CD-ROM (actually a DVD) and IDE-1

I saw what I thought was SCSI1 when the Partition Manager was setting the disk up for initial install.

The thing is the partition manager recognised the HDD and the size on each HDD I tried and it seemed to do a proper install.

---

### Post by ICEB3AR on 2010-01-26
Have you manually partitioned your HDD ?

It sounds to me as if there is no bootloader installed.

---

### Post by bsu74 on 2010-01-26
No I just ran the install option from the 9.10 disk and it went ahead and partitioned the drive prior to installing

---

### Post by ICEB3AR on 2010-01-26
If I remember right at the install of 9.10 you have to choose to:
either use 
- the complete hdd
- reduce the existing partition of hdd and install ubuntu in the empty space
- manually set up the layout. 

Which Option did you use? 
If you have set up your layout manually you maybe forgot to set the bootflag at the bootpartition.

---

### Post by bsu74 on 2010-01-26
I just let it install to the full HDD, I did not select part partition or manual.  That is why I am so confused as it should just have worked, LOL.

Now I would expect MS to be a pain in the butt, but this is surprising

---

### Post by JBAlaska on 2010-01-26
Try changing your boot order to: CDROM, IDE-0 and nothing else, If that does not work then try CDROM, IDE-1 (In case Ubuntu installed to the other HD.

BTW, You don't have a USB thumb drive or external USB device plugged in do you...sorry had to ask.

---

### Post by bsu74 on 2010-01-26
I will try changing boot sequence

No, no thumb drives or other equipment plugged in anywhere

---

### Post by bsu74 on 2010-01-26
OK, changed the boot to CD-ROM: IDE0

GRUB loaded and then offered 4 options:

Linux, Linux Recovery mode, Memtest, Memtest with console

Selected Linux and hit enter

It went to the following error message

"error no such device a72a96df-883e-46ac-8b2e-8cd59858a358 press any key to continue"

On pressing the space bar it took me back to the 4 choices............now what?

---

### Post by Jefferythewind on 2010-01-26
I have a similar problem, but with a windows system on one of my drive partitions, these are hard to figure out.  Ubuntu still works great, and thanks to the ubuntu live USB device I made, I can always use that to boot up...

---

### Post by bsu74 on 2010-01-26
It is not a dual boot, The HDD was repartioned by the installer, or should have been and the only OS or data on it has come from the 9.10 installation process

---

### Post by JBAlaska on 2010-01-26
Try booting the LiveCD and choosing the "Boot to Harddrive" option.

If you get in, open a terminal and do:
```
sudo update-grub
```

---

### Post by bsu74 on 2010-01-26
> **JBAlaska said:**
> Try booting the LiveCD and choosing the "Boot to Harddrive" option.

If you get in, open a terminal and do:
```
sudo update-grub
```
OK, tried that, ran the install disk, choose the "boot from local HDD" option

messages showed Grub running, then an error flashed up too fast to read

it then went to the 4 options and the GRUB was listed as GNU GRUB v1.97~beta4

Selected load Linux and it returned the error message:

"error no such device a72a96df-883e-46ac-8b2e-8cd59858a358 press any key  to continue" again.

---

### Post by gnack on 2010-01-26
You mentioned you've tried on two hard disks - was the disk you're attempting to boot removed after the install and put back in without another install?  It sounds like the UUID specified in the bootloader (grub) doesn't match the disk.

If you boot via the live CD you should be able to get a disk UUID with the blkid tool:

$ blkid /dev/sda1
/dev/sda1: UUID="e4e90a64-1df2-4ed1-95c7-4f6560776e40" TYPE="ext3"

---

### Post by bacchusmarsh on 2010-01-28
Hey yo,
I had the same problem and found a work around here:

[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:search]("http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:search")

it worked for me, good luck

---

### Post by brookie on 2010-01-28
Hello,
I recently upgraded my hard drive to a 250GB drive. I did a clean install of Karmic and got the same error. 
I found a bug report at launchpad here:
[URL="https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/403408"]https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/403408 
[/URL]
As a workaround I did a clean install with a smaller 10GB /, 20GB /home, the rest for data, and a small swap file. I read that a 10GB /home is fine if you store your data somewhere else, but I will install virtualbox with WinXP at 12GB which gets installed in /home. 

The problem seems to be that Karmic won't see the large hdd, maybe on some older machines. I'm pretty sure this is the correct bug report. 

Good luck. The smaller root and home partitions worked for me. This problem really stumped me.

Cheers,
brook

---

