---
title: "firefox flash-aid deletes contents of /opt"
date: 2012-01-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by TinkerTaylor on 2012-01-24
Installed and ran the firefox add-on flash-aid. It deleted the contents of /opt. Why would it do that? Boxee installed to this folder, for some reason (why not other, e.g., /usr/bin).

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2012-01-24
merely installing the addon did that or running it to install the flash plugin?
i looked at the script generated by flash-aid that installs 64bit beta and didn't see anything remotely related to /opt

---

### Post by corrytonapple on 2012-01-24
LovingLinux, where are you?  :D

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-01-24
LL will surely stop by shortly.

---

### Post by TinkerTaylor on 2012-01-24
> **Vaphell said:**
> merely installing the addon did that or running it to install the flash plugin?
i looked at the script generated by flash-aid that installs 64bit beta and didn't see anything remotely related to /opt

Running it, actually. There was also a flashplugin-downloader in /opt, maybe it took offense by it? I saw clearly in the output in the term window that it intentionally deleted boxee and the flashplugin-downloader. Just find it to be very strange behavior.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2012-01-24
The content opt folder is not removed. The reason why your Boxee was removed is because it depends on flashplugin package, so the package manager removed it, when you executed the Flash-Aid script. By default, Flash-Aid removes all flash versions when executed, to make sure there is no conflicting flash plugin installed. The removal of Boxee is a side-effect that I can't avoid.

I will try to implement a routine to detect Boxee in the next version and alert the user. However, there is not much I can do except to put a warning. If you install Boxee again, it will replace the beta plugin installed by Flash-Aid, with the one from the repository, making the use of Flash-Aid limited to applying tweaks.

---

### Post by TinkerTaylor on 2012-01-24
Ok, thanks. That clarifies things - to an extent at least. Don't see why the package manager deletes all apps that rely on a certain flash plugin. Anyway, a warning would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2012-01-24
> **TinkerTaylor said:**
> Ok, thanks. That clarifies things - to an extent at least. Don't see why the package manager deletes all apps that rely on a certain flash plugin. Anyway, a warning would be greatly appreciated.

This is how things works. If a package strictly relies on another to function and the dependency is removed, then the package is uninstalled as well.

I thought the feedback from the terminal was enough for this issue to be spotted and the removal cancelled by the user. Since I am developing Flash-Aid, this is only the second time I receive such report. Better be safe than sorry, I will implement the warning in the extension as well.

---

