---
title: "[9.10] Can't install certain packages due to broken pipe"
date: 2010-05-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by purplearcanist on 2010-05-26
Can anyone please help me with installing scipy and other packages that need a dependency?  For some reason, something has a Broken Pipe error.

$ sudo apt-get install python-scipy* 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Note, selecting python-scipy-core for regex 'python-scipy*'
Note, selecting python-scipy for regex 'python-scipy*'
You might want to run `apt-get -f install' to correct these:
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
  mencoder: Depends: libmp3lame0 but it is not going to be installed
  mplayer-nogui: Depends: libmp3lame0 but it is not going to be installed
  python-scipy: Depends: libamd2.2.0 (>= 1:3.4.0) but it is not going to be installed
                Depends: libumfpack5.4.0 (>= 1:3.4.0) but it is not going to be installed
E: Unmet dependencies. Try 'apt-get -f install' with no packages (or specify a solution).
$ sudo apt-get -f install
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Correcting dependencies... Done
The following extra packages will be installed:
  libmp3lame0
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  libmp3lame0
0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 1 not upgraded.
2 not fully installed or removed.
Need to get 0B/251kB of archives.
After this operation, 455kB of additional disk space will be used.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]? Y
(Reading database ... 420117 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking libmp3lame0 (from .../libmp3lame0_3.98.2+debian-0ubuntu2_i386.deb) ...
dpkg: error processing /var/cache/apt/archives/libmp3lame0_3.98.2+debian-0ubuntu2_i386.deb (--unpack):
 trying to overwrite '/usr/lib/libmp3lame.so.0.0.0', which is also in package liblame0 0:3.97-0.0
dpkg-deb: subprocess paste killed by signal (Broken pipe)
Errors were encountered while processing:
 /var/cache/apt/archives/libmp3lame0_3.98.2+debian-0ubuntu2_i386.deb
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)

---

### Post by purplearcanist on 2010-05-26
Actually, I solved my own problem by reinstalling the broken packages.

---

