---
title: "11.04 Adobe Reader"
date: 2011-05-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-25
Has anyone had any problems with Adobe Reader? The cd book is encrypted and will only use Adobe Reader. Where and how can this be downloaded for Ubuntu?

thanks

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-05-25
It's in the partner repository.
From the Software Center, click Edit->Software Sources, Other Software tab, and check the repository.
The line should look something like this:
> [http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu](http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu) ...

When done, search for Adobe Reader in the Software Center.

---

### Post by galacticaboy on 2011-05-25
Open up Ubuntu Software Center and on the right side click on the little arrow beside 'Get Software', there you should see Canonical Partners, when you click that you will see Adobe Reader. You can then add the repo by clicking on it, then you can install it.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-25
> **galacticaboy said:**
> Open up Ubuntu Software Center and on the right side click on the little arrow beside 'Get Software', there you should see Canonical Partners, when you click that you will see Adobe Reader. You can then add the repo by clicking on it, then you can install it.

If I decide to uninstall Adobe Reader will it uninstall ALL files? What I am concerned with when I used Windows there were remnant files after uninstalling Adobe. Also I was always being bugged by Adobe pop-ups asking me if I want to upgrade and it would "remind me" to make a decision every 30 minutes. This is one of the reasons I finally gave up on Windows and I do not want to experience this again.

thanks

gumshoe

---

### Post by I2k4 on 2011-05-26
Be sure the ebook on the CD is an ordinary .PDF file and not an "Adobe Digital Editions" format ebook, which will not work in an  ordinary PDF reader.  You would need the special reader software here:

[http://www.adobe.com/products/digitaleditions/](http://www.adobe.com/products/digitaleditions/)

It does not work on Linux.  I learned this by borrowing ebooks from my local library and had to install on my XP system to use the library download service.  So just be sure you know what you have on that CD.

I think you wrote in the other thread about problems uninstalling completely in Windows.  You should know that free Revo Uninstaller does a fantastic job of completely removing Windows software, advanced level is much more thorough than the Windows add/remove thing, which I don't use any more.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-26
> **gumshoegrant said:**
> If I decide to uninstall Adobe Reader will it uninstall ALL files? What I am concerned with when I used Windows there were remnant files after uninstalling Adobe. Also I was always being bugged by Adobe pop-ups asking me if I want to upgrade and it would "remind me" to make a decision every 30 minutes. This is one of the reasons I finally gave up on Windows and I do not want to experience this again.

thanks

gumshoe
Hi, in synaptic when you select to remove it just click to remove all and it will get rid of all the files.

---

