---
title: "9.04 / XAMPP / mysql / ERROR2002(HY000)"
date: 2009-08-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by edster99 on 2009-08-05
For information : I had to do this twice (due to reinstalling my machine) so I'm clear on it now!

I installed XAMPP onto Jaunty 9.04 and it all works fine except if you want to run a mysql command in the terminal.  phpMyAdmin works fine, My-SQL Admin GUI tools worked fine, etc, but running mysql I got the following error : ERROR 2002 (HY000): Can’t connect to local MySQL server through socket ‘/var/lib/mysql/mysql.sock’ (2).  The main problem was that the default install points to a directory that doesn't exist for the file to be created in ... which doesn't stop the process starting, but stops the mysql client connecting.

I went into it through a range of options but what I ended up with which worked was : 
1) Create a folder /mysql in /opt/lampp/var/ and give access rights (chmod 755).

2) locate your two copies of my.cnf - one in /etc/mysql and one in /opt/lampp/etc

3) ensure that there is a file mysql.sock in /opt/lampp/var/mysql - either create a blank file, or the following entries _should_ create it.

4) in both versions of my.cnf, ensure that the following entries point to /opt/lampp/var/mysql/mysql.sock

[mysqld]
port        = 3306
socket        = /opt/lampp/var/mysql/mysql.sock

[client]
port        = 3306
socket        = /opt/lampp/var/mysql/mysql.sock

I found that I needed to reboot (not just xampp restart), then it worked fine.

If it helps anyone, good!

regards
Ed

---

### Post by syed ishaq on 2011-08-03
Thanks.... 
you rock :guitar:

---

