---
title: "1600 X 1024 aspect"
date: 2013-08-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cvrbob on 2013-08-01
have  insignia  HDMI tv 23" monitor set at 1600 X 1024 , and cannot fit this aspect which I had under windows , with 12.04 wants to set at 1920 x1080  , tried 1680 x1050 and all the rest in the drop down  , but still can't see the outer edges to anything, any help appreciated 
really want to try instead of windows , but this is a bummer

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-08-01
I have no answer, but perhaps **xrandr** or tweaking the monitor settings manually using the monitor buttons will help? It is important to use the native resolution for LCD monitors - REALLY important.  If the higher resolutions are an issue, you can change the font sizes across most Linux GUI applications through settings inside  the ~/.Xdefauls file.

---

### Post by cvrbob on 2013-08-02
> **TheFu said:**
> I have no answer, but perhaps **xrandr** or tweaking the monitor settings manually using the monitor buttons will help? It is important to use the native resolution for LCD monitors - REALLY important.  If the higher resolutions are an issue, you can change the font sizes across most Linux GUI applications through settings inside  the ~/.Xdefauls file.

is xrandr a program , but the font may do it, can you explain how, just hope to see the task bar, the only buttons on the monitor are the menu ( but nothing in their ) input volume up and down , Chanel & power

I did get the monitor to work in windows at  1680 X 1050 which was the second choice in the ubuntu display menu , but still cannot see the task bar, only half of the start menu 


                                                                                                                     thanks for suggestions

---

### Post by MirrorUniverse on 2013-08-03
Found this archived thread using Google, should be what you are looking for. [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1958682.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1958682.html)
edit:  The above link is for making a custom aspect ratio using xrandr, here is a link for taking a default aspect ratio and adjusting it which also uses xrandr. [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1659397.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1659397.html)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-08-03
> **cvrbob said:**
> is xrandr a program , but the font may do it, can you explain how, just hope to see the task bar, the only buttons on the monitor are the menu ( but nothing in their ) input volume up and down , Chanel & power

I did get the monitor to work in windows at  1680 X 1050 which was the second choice in the ubuntu display menu , but still cannot see the task bar, only half of the start menu 

Yes, xrandr is a program.
Managing fonts using X/Windows seems strange until you do it - and everything clicks. Not all programs follow the standard for some reason, so there is no assurance it will work at all.

As to your monitor buttons.  Most monitors have a way to handle overscan issues by controlling the pixel ratios. The buttons you've listed are all that any monitors usually have - get out the manual and read on how to get into the correct mode to control it. It is possible to shrink the image so it fits on the screen 100%. Once you get the handle of it, it almost makes sense what the monitor buttons are for ... almost.

---

