---
title: "18.04 - Disable WPS Office Update"
date: 2018-09-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by simpos on 2018-09-24
[COLOR=#242729][FONT=Arial]My question is just this, I do not want to receive notifications from WPS on Ubuntu, where does it disable?

[/FONT][/COLOR]It is possible to select to ignore, but eventually it will ask for a new update, and I want it to never appear again.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2018-09-24
Those updates are prompted by the application which is 3rd party and it may be a question for the WPS people. I use WPS with Deepin because it is the default office program and it has updated recently.

---

### Post by simpos on 2018-09-26
But in Windows can be disabled through general settings, but Linux does not have, should be somewhere.


About WPS, they are extremely restrictive, do not publish my doubts in the Forum, it is moderate and only put what suits them.

I really wanted to disable any kind of notification, it's a user right, I have almost 500 computers to administer, and I do not want to be pestered by the user asking me what to do with this notification.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2018-09-26
Kingsoft doesn't include the configuration gui in the Linux version and that includes the option to never check for updates and other settings. Unfortunately the bit of software that checks the sever for updates and communicates with the notification system is likely in one of program's folders.

---

### Post by simpos on 2018-09-26
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> Kingsoft doesn't include the configuration gui in the Linux version and that includes the option to never check for updates and other settings. Unfortunately the bit of software that checks the sever for updates and communicates with the notification system is likely in one of program's folders.

Exactly.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2018-09-27
I see no way to determine what component in the file system is interacting with the wps web site and notification system. It is after all a proprietary application. If there is software source in software & updates/other software you can disable/remove it.

See Restrictions:

[https://www.wps.com/eula](https://www.wps.com/eula)

---

### Post by simpos on 2018-09-30
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> I see no way to determine what component in the file system is interacting with the wps web site and notification system. It is after all a proprietary application. If there is software source in software & updates/other software you can disable/remove it.

See Restrictions:

[https://www.wps.com/eula](https://www.wps.com/eula)

Obrigado.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2018-10-01
> **simpos said:**
> 


About WPS, they are extremely restrictive, do not publish my doubts in the Forum, it is moderate and only put what suits them.

I really wanted to disable any kind of notification, it's a user right, I have almost 500 computers to administer, and I do not want to be pestered by the user asking me what to do with this notification.


Why don't you just use LibreOffice then?

About the upgrade notice, can you just block its website at /etc/hosts to prevent it from calling home?

---

### Post by simpos on 2018-10-03
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> Why don't you just use LibreOffice then?

About the upgrade notice, can you just block its website at /etc/hosts to prevent it from calling home?

LibreOffice has not kept pace with the evolution of office suites, it has the look of the 90s, it is not an attractive tool for today, WPS offers exactly what a user needs, not that lot of application for intermediate users.


Not only that, now LibreOffice is requiring an API that Windows 7 can no longer run, it is necessary to insert another plugin for Windows 7 to run, where work had to carry out visits in various health facilities and schools to fix this.


I say more, he has years ahead of WPS and still can not open pptx with fidelity, while WPS is almost 100%.


Another thing, even Xubuntu seems to be wanting to abandon, its distro currently only comes with Writer and Calc, Impress has been abandoned, and Lubuntu is not even accompanied with LibreOffice.


The unique format of LibreOffice is another cancer, WPS Office and FreeOffice have unique formats, each with its format, but even so they configure to always use .docx .xlsx .pptx, LibreOffice is so arrogant that it configures that crap ODF like main.


The reasons are these, LibreOffice is stillborn.

---

