---
title: "11.10 LOGITECH MX1000 Connection Problem"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Denizen08 on 2011-10-15
I'm having problems using my MX1000 mouse. It connects easy and ubuntu is able to detect it and even ask if I want to grant it access to services that, to my knowledge, would interpret the mouse. But I am unable to use it after connecting. If I move it fast enough while "granting permission" to the device I am able to make the mouse cursor move by a bit but it disconnects quickly.

---

### Post by joolz on 2011-10-15
I have the same problem with my Logitech bluetooth travel mouse. Worked perfectly in previous ubuntu releases.

---

### Post by Valis667 on 2011-10-15
I have exactly the same problem with my MX 5500 Mouse and keyboard combo. If I move the mouse the "grant access" box pops up, but it won't select it. When I search for devices in the Bluetooth manager my mouse or keyboard will briefly appear under "found devices" when I move the mouse/type on the keyboard, then quickly disappear when I stop.

Edit: I have found the solution to this problem here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1858493](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1858493)

Works perfectly for me.

---

### Post by nikita77 on 2012-03-01
Same problem. [Valis667]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=829780") solution not work. But  I exchange all logitech devices section in valis667 solution with this:
KERNEL=="hiddev*", ATTRS{idVendor}=="046d", ATTRS{idProduct}=="c70[35e]", \
  RUN+="hid2hci --method=logitech-hid --devpath=%p"
KERNEL=="hidraw*", ATTRS{idVendor}=="046d", ATTRS{idProduct}=="c70[4abc]|c71[34bc]", \
  RUN+="hid2hci --method=logitech-hid --devpath=%p"
and i can setup my mx1000 mouse in "setup new device.." for bluetooth
:))

---

