---
title: "8.04 Server - (S)FTP setup for groups/permissions"
date: 2008-05-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by fozzyuw on 2008-05-05
Hi All and Thanks in advance.

I've been Google-ing for this topic for a few days now and I've tried to muddle my way through to no success, so now I'm turning to the Ubuntu forums community and hope I can find some answers here...

I've installed 8.04 server.  It's all working just fine.  I'm working on setting up a pair of Dell servers that'll be used for website applications and file sharing (respectfully).

I've installed openSSH and I can connect to the server via sFTP on a windows machine using putty.  I can copy a file from the server to the Windows machine but I cannot copy a file from the windows machine to the Ubuntu server due to permissions.  "Permissions Denied" is the error I get.

I'm using the account I setup that has 'sudo' permissions, but obviously over SFTP I cannot send things as sudo commands.  So, my question is, are there any good resources out there that will walk me through on using/setting up SFTP?  

Pretty much all the online tutorials I found are about as deep as "aptitude install [sftp]... that's it, it works!"

There's no talk about how to setup accounts, assign them to specific folders, and give them proper permissions (read/write/execute) which is what I'm trying to do.

I want to setup sFTP and create accounts with individual web directories so I can hand out sFTP accounts to our engineers and allow them to upload files to "their" accounts.

Cheers!
Fozzy

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-05-06
Have you thought about using samba instead?

---

### Post by fozzyuw on 2008-05-06
> **njparton said:**
> Have you thought about using samba instead?

I'm not really familiar with what Samba is( I'm new to administering Linux in general).  As I understand it, it's an application that allows the sharing of files between windows/linux on a network.

What I'm working on is setting up 2 web servers that'll be at a host location and will host my companies websites.  I want to setup (secure) FTP so the engineers (CAD) and myself (web) can upload files easily to the server.  Others will login through the website to download said files.

These servers won't have printers and they're not going to be locally connected to any window machines.  Is this something Samba would be useful for?

Cheers,
Fozzy

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-05-06
Samba is usually used within LAN's, not over the web (as far as I'm aware).
 
However, you may be able to tunnel it through SSH so that it's encrypted.
 
We're at the limit of my knowledge now though. Try googling for 'samba ssh tunneling' without the quotes e.g.:
 
[http://www.ibiblio.org/gferg/ldp/Samba-with-SSH/](http://www.ibiblio.org/gferg/ldp/Samba-with-SSH/)
 
didn't read it though.
 
Samba is very easy to set up and administer. Also check out webmin for general remote administration :wink:

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-05-06
I found that with MySecureShell you can finer grain access thruogh SFTP (and also make sure there is no bash connection). Maybe you have luck with that, as it is able to mask files/dirs.

[http://howtoforge.com/mysecureshell_sftp_debian_etch](http://howtoforge.com/mysecureshell_sftp_debian_etch)

[http://mysecureshell.sourceforge.net/](http://mysecureshell.sourceforge.net/)

---

### Post by fozzyuw on 2008-05-08
Well, after more muddling about it turns out it's just a simply permissions problem.

While I was logging in with putty's sFTP application with my user account (which has all sudo privileges), I could not evoke sudo through the sFTP.

Since this account was part of the "web" group (which I setup previously), I just had to apply ```
chmod -R g+rwx /var/www
``` to give my user account (and anyone who's part of the "web" group) write permissions to transfer files to the web directory.

So, it's all part of getting use to administering/using Linux.

Thanks for the help!

Cheers!
Fozzy

---

