---
title: "9.04 Crash from Hell"
date: 2009-06-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gurt on 2009-06-30
Strangest thing... I came back from dinner turned on my PC and... nothing. No Ubuntu logo, no nothing. HD not making a sound.

Since I know nothing of Ubuntu I tried to fix it from the CD. Nada. It just hangs when looking for network HW. So I loaded my XP disk and formatted the drive and then tried to load Ubuntu again. Nada.

I'm going to try loading up 8.10 64-bit Desktop. 

I can't remember the last time I ever had a PC crash. Is this something I get to look forward to in the linux world?

How can I best prepare for dealing with a crash in the future? Some utilities I need to keep around? What is e2fsk and how do I run it from a CD?

Ugh.....

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-06-30
So the PC wont boot and locks up during the install, sounds like a hard ware issue, not a operating system issue...

soory but check you computers components, most likely something went bad, like the hard drive or motherboard

---

### Post by gurt on 2009-06-30
But I can install XP just fine.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2009-06-30
> **LowSky said:**
> sounds like a hard ware issue

+1

If it's still faulty after formatting the drive then it ain't software.

---

### Post by random turnip on 2009-06-30
> **Paqman said:**
> +1

If it's still faulty after formatting the drive then it ain't software.

Exactly.
Unless your Ubuntu disk is faulty, but it's ridiculously unlikely to have both happen to you.

---

### Post by milton1 on 2009-06-30
Are you succeeding in loading XP on the same drive that seems to be failing with ubuntu?

When xp is installed, are you able to access the network?

---

### Post by RD1 on 2009-06-30
Since Ubuntu hangs while "looking for NW hardware", I would look to a faulty network card.

> But I can install XP just fine. 

XP does not load your network card drivers during install. Ubuntu loads drivers at boot-up from the Live CD. Thus, you may very well be able to install XP where Ubuntu would fail at boot. 

If you have an "Add-in" network card, remove it and see if Ubuntu will boot from CD. If you have a "built-in" network card, disable it in bios and again attempt to boot from Live CD.

---

### Post by gurt on 2009-06-30
It is the same HD. I'm downloading 8.10 right now and only have one keyboard and mouse that I switch between PCs. (life's tough here in the 3rd world).

When the guys mentioned HD, it hit me that I did in fact add some HW today to my PC (Ubuntu 9.04). It's a 4-port serial card (SIIG CyberSerial 4S PCIe). I was able to get it working mostly. 3-ports were up and functioning. When I shutdown there was a lot of extra lines of text running down the screen after the gui was gone. I didn't think to look that carefully -- I'm a noob, what can I say? ](*,)

Perhaps it's a little late to ask now -- but what the heck -- is there something I need to do before/after I add HW? I sort of assumed plug and play. 

So I guess the first order of business is to try 9.04 again with and w/o the serial card. If that's a no go then I'll try 8.10. And then I'll try XP just to see if I can install it.

Let me know if I need to try something else.

Thanks!

---

### Post by RD1 on 2009-06-30
If things work ok without the new serial card, it may be an I/O conflict with your network card (or other hardware).

Possibly try serial card in a different slot? Also, after installing serial card, go into BIOS and find an option for "Reset Configuration Data" ... or something to that effect.

Good Luck

---

### Post by candtalan on 2009-06-30
> **gurt said:**
> Strangest thing... I came back from dinner turned on my PC and... nothing. No Ubuntu logo, no nothing. HD not making a sound.

Since I know nothing of Ubuntu I tried to fix it from the CD. Nada. It just hangs when looking for network HW. So I loaded my XP disk and formatted the drive and then tried to load Ubuntu again. Nada.

I'm going to try loading up 8.10 64-bit Desktop. 

I can't remember the last time I ever had a PC crash. Is this something I get to look forward to in the linux world?

How can I best prepare for dealing with a crash in the future? Some utilities I need to keep around? What is e2fsk and how do I run it from a CD?

Ugh.....

looking at your posts to date you do seem to be very unlucky with ubuntu. You also seem to be tackling some relatively advanced stuff at the same time as finding basic problems and having difficulty. I wish you better luck in the future.

---

### Post by gurt on 2009-06-30
I removed the serial card and all 3 dual-port ethernet cards that I had installed. I'm writing from the 9.04 LiveCD.

RD1,
I will look into the interrupt issue. I take it the bios "reset config data" is all I need to get 9.04 seeing everything OK? I didn't need any new drivers before so I'm liking the idea that it's the interrupts.

Thanks to all for the prompt feedback. The Ubuntu community is really a great resource. 8-[

---

### Post by RD1 on 2009-06-30
> I removed the serial card and all 3 dual-port ethernet cards that I had installed. I'm writing from the 9.04 LiveCD.

RD1,
I will look into the interrupt issue. I take it the bios "reset config data" is all I need to get 9.04 seeing everything OK? I didn't need any new drivers before so I'm liking the idea that it's the interrupts.

Thanks to all for the prompt feedback. The Ubuntu community is really a great resource.


Woo-Hoo! 3 dual-port ethernet cards? Is this some kind of server or what?

Glad it's working so far. At this point, I would start adding cards back in and "reset config data" each time, to see where the troubles start.

Looks like you are on the way to a resolution.

---

