---
title: "12.04 up - video required"
date: 2013-04-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2013-04-17
to install 12.04, is it arequirement that my gpu support unity?  I removed Ubuntu from my new Dell laptop since the uefi things were rather messy and it "decided" to just boot Windows 8 unless I call up the BIOS boot menu.  So, my Dad got a new laptop.  I drove up there last week to fix the things he couldn't get working.  As a result he no longer needed an old Compaq 2500 I had set up for him a few years ago.  I wiped it and installed 11.04 to start.  It says the gpu doesn't support unity.  So, before I burn a 12.xx disk (32-bit), I'd like to know if the livecd will even let me install it. thanks.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2013-04-17
I've got a rather crummy old VIA graphics chip, which is useless for anything fancy, on my desktop computer, and I've had no trouble installing and running Ubuntu 12.04

You might not be able to run full-blown Unity, but there should still be an option of using Unity 2D in 12.04 and Gnome-fallback.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-04-17
If you tried installing 12.04 you'd at least get unity2d.
Unity2d will run on some really old hardware, though as with anything of age, it'll run slow.
But unfortunately, while Unity2d was a great option, it only lives in two distros, 11.10, and 12.04.
11.04 was a gnome2 base system and used gnome's classic layout as the fallback
11.10 and 12.04 added unity2d as the fallback for hardware that can't utilize full-on unity.
12.10 onward merged the codebase of unity and unity2d, so it's now one system.
Personally, I haven't had the time to mingle with older hardware, so I don't know how well older systems run with the newer unity versions, aka 12.10, or 13.04(beta).

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-04-17
Well, I guess I'll give it a try.  I'll need to use the alternate image for now as this old laptop currently only has 512mb memory, and some of that's used by the video so there is really less.

Thanks!

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2013-04-17
If you've only got 512MB of memory, you might be better off with one of the lighter-weight versions, such as Xubuntu.

Or take a look at LXLE: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2125764](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2125764).

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-04-17
> **Irihapeti said:**
> If you've only got 512MB of memory, you might be better off with one of the lighter-weight versions, such as Xubuntu.

Or take a look at LXLE: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2125764](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2125764).

+1
I agree totally.

I suggest Xubuntu 12.04, which I am now running on my brand spanking new desktop (Intel*-*i5-3570K, 8GB ram) and even though some may think that hardware is over the top for that OS, it suits me down to the ground.

I could not get on with unity at all, even after trying it for some time as it just got in the way of me doing things, so I looked at the other DEs, and XFCE fitted me completely; it is very like gnome 2 in many ways, which I loved, so Xubuntu is where I am and I think Xubuntu is where I shall stay.

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2013-04-17
> **ajgreeny said:**
> 
I could not get on with unity at all, even after trying it for some time as it just got in the way of me doing things, so I looked at the other DEs, and XFCE fitted me completely; it is very like gnome 2 in many ways, which I loved, so Xubuntu is where I am and I think Xubuntu is where I shall stay.

Damn right you are. Couldn't agree more with you.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-04-17
I already tried lubuntu 12.10.  My 4306 wireless adapter requires using the firmware cutter and the .o file to get working (using the b43.zip file to build the /lib/firmware/ folder didn't work either).  This requires 2 rmmod's to test and the first rmmod I attempt the system crashes - every time.  So I that's how I got to Ubuntu 11.04 and got my wireless working.  I have an update coming to change the memory to 1 gig, but in the mean time just wanted to try to get Ubuntu installed.  I triedthe 12.04 32-bit installation image and it runs extremely slow and never asks any questions beyond the installation language.  After enough time (about 10 minutes with nothing coming back to the screen), it also crashes with a dump trace on the screen.  At least the installation never got anywhere, so the hard disk was never touched so I can at least boot 11.04 yet.  I may try the 12.04 alternate image later to see if for some reason the installation process will at least run.  For now, given the problem with lubuntu 12.10, I see no reason to try any other mods of ubuntu as this time. The core is still the same, and that seems to be where the problem is. If the 12.04 alternate image doesn't work then I'll just wait for the memory upgrade and see if it makes any difference or not.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-04-17
If this is our guy
[http://www.cnet.com/laptops/compaq-presario-2500-15/4505-3121_7-30834272.html](http://www.cnet.com/laptops/compaq-presario-2500-15/4505-3121_7-30834272.html)
I would go for Lubuntu 13.04, though it is in beta. Ubuntu is not going to be a pleasure, not even with more memory.

The BCM 4306's are usually not difficult to work with, but be aware that there are several kinds of them, each needing its own procedure for installing.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-04-17
Yeah, Ubuntu with Unity would probably work, but it would be like that guy that got Ubuntu to boot on an 8bit, it probably run at a snails pace.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-04-17
I'd love to have lubuntu or other working - but with the problem I had with 12.04 (used the alternate image) crashing whenever I tried a rmmod from terminal, I'd rather keep things as-is until the memory arrives (not to mention a new A/C adapter - the current one gets VERY hot and appears to be underrated for the laptop).  Once all those things are in place I'll try all of that.  It's just something to mess around on using Linux, so at the current time at least it's not critical to get this all working quickly.  My 4306 is rev 2 so I just used the firmware cutter and the .o file to extract the firmware it needed - it's been working since I first did that with 11.04.  Thanks for the help everyone!

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-04-17
> **deadflowr said:**
> ...I don't know how well older systems run with the newer unity versions, aka 12.10, or 13.04(beta).

Gawdawful. Unity is not tender with the fond memories of yesteryear.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-04-17
Hi squakie. Trust you are keeping well.

From an old-equipment mutt: would highly recommend that you give CrunchBang or Bodhi a go. I've been especially impressed with Bodhi. Love the Enlightenment desktop. CrunchBang easily grows on you too, especially if you like an aesthetic that is Spartan to the point of minimalist. You will have to stick with the 32-bit non-PAE kernels in both cases, but you will feel right at home. From apt-get to using the Ubuntu repos, they are familiar to work with and yet work like greased lightning especially on old HW.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-04-18
hi duckhook!  hope things are going good for you.  Well, just for the heck of it used the 12.04 alternate image and was able to install this time and get my wireless working, but as myself, you, and others suspected, can you say I've seen snails faster than that? ;)  I know the bump up in memory will help some, but unity (I assume it has to be the 2d) is running I suspect I might have slightly better luck with a non-unity desktop.  Going to try that later.  In the meantime, I think I'll try CrunchBag as I have heard it often but never tried it.  I did have bohdi running in a vm for a while but it's been gone for while.  Nothing can be any worse than installing Slackware back in 1995, so if I just start using the ol' noggin again I would get along better! ;)

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-04-18
> **squakie said:**
> ...unity (I assume it has to be the 2d) is running I suspect I might have slightly better luck with a non-unity desktop.

The problem is the crud that the actual Ubuntu flavour drags in because it is configured to be able to launch Unity at any time. You don't need the kernel modules, the services and the suboptimal configs for Unity, and this is the advantage of starting with a non-Unity install. But I also know the frustration of wrestling with dead WIFI, so you're damned if you do and damned if you don't. BTW, you may have to wrestle alligators to get your 4306 working. If rev 02, it's b43legacy. If rev 03 or higher, it's b43. Check rev by doing:```
lspci -vvnn | grep 14e4
```Either version, they drop their connection both regularly and frequently, especially in the middle of long downloads, and are a royal pain in the neck. Are you stuck with this wonky chip or can you use something less ancient? Changing that one component might open up all your options.

I dual boot CrunchBang and Bodhi on an old Dell laptop with a Pentium M processor and 512 MB (and the exact 4306 chip you are wrestling with). It runs both OSes flawlessly and fast. I even get compositing on Bodhi, but the GPU is reasonable, so your mileage may vary. At any rate, I had to install b43legacy by hand, but both OSes come with up-to-date fwcutter so no insurmountable problems. Did you download your blob from openwrt.org or elsewhere? I can't get mine to work unless its the openwrt.org version:

For b43legacy, it's [http://downloads.openwrt.org/sources/wl_apsta-3.130.20.0.o](http://downloads.openwrt.org/sources/wl_apsta-3.130.20.0.o)
For b43, it's [http://mirror2.openwrt.org/sources/broadcom-wl-5.10.56.27.3_mipsel.tar.bz2](http://mirror2.openwrt.org/sources/broadcom-wl-5.10.56.27.3_mipsel.tar.bz2)

> Nothing can be any worse than installing Slackware back in 1995...

I tried Gentoo when it was first released, ohh, 10 years ago? I still shudder at the memories. Your experience probably trumps mine.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-04-18
Well, I installed crunchbang, but am a little stuck.  My 4306 - it's rev 2 - says firmware missing as per Ubuntu.  But I can't find anything on the installation CD that looks like the firmware cutter.  I've tried rmmod'ing all of the b43 things - b43legacy, ssb, etc. - then modprobe'ing them, but the same result.  The post-installation script is just hung there because it wants an internet connection.  I don't want to kill it until I know how to re-run it once I get my wireless working.  It's kind of funny - the 4306 worked with no drops in Ubuntu 11.04 using the firmware cutter and the .o file - but when I installed 12.04 then used the same I started having drop outs.  I suspect a change in the kernel itself.  At any rate - just stuck here.  Looked on the net and can't find anything that tells you how to do an off-line installation of the firmware.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-04-18
Got it!  Got the firmware cutter working, copied in the .o file containing the various firmware and ran firmware cutter -all's good, post installation script is running.  btw - so far seems pretty quick, and memory usage is unreal!

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-04-18
Glad to see you worked it out. I had to cut out on you last night to get my beauty sleep so didn't see your post about running into a spot of trouble until this morning.

On my box, Bodhi is even tinier than CrunchBang. These were the only two Ubuntu-based distros that treated obsolete equipment with real respect. Lubuntu is also fine, but occupies over 50% more memory than CrunchBang on my 512 MB box. Wait till you have IceWeasel, Abiword and Gnumeric all up and running and still have 200MB of memory free. It's a pleasure to go back to efficient computing again.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-04-18
And I see what you mean about the wireless - even though it's a b/g adapter it's only running 11mb at most.  The rest of the network is N, so this really drags things down.  Guess it's time to head down to Micro Center and pick up one ofthe $10 Tenda N USB adapter - it worked out of the box with Ubuntu so hopefully the same.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-04-18
+1

wait till it drops your connection in the middle of a critical upgrade. The $10 will have been well worth it.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-04-20
Well, I've got the new A/C adapter and the memory upgrade, so I'm now running with 1gb.  Also got a Tenda W332U V2.0 USB wireless N 300mps adapter at Micro Center on sale for $12.99 today.

I tried CrunchBang with the updates, but to be honest it seemed slow.  Memory usage was great. I then installed Ubuntu 12.04 desktop again - and again quite a drag.  I then tried kubuntu - looks great, seemed to run fine, but I'm not familiar with KDE and as a result was lost (lack of just reading up on my part).  I then tried Mint 14 - it got to the point of asking if I wanted to install - I clicked on Install and then the screen went black - I mean no backlight or anything  - the cd stopped activity and I had to power-punt, so I'm skipping it ;)  I then installed xubuntu 12.  Installed as normal, recognized the new wireless adapter right out of the box (and anywhere from 240mbps to 300mbps connection).  It seems to run quite fast for this old laptop, and looks quite acceptable to me.  I'm going to have to figure out xubuntu now just for using it, but I think it stands great promise for me on this old laptop (I'm spoiled from my new Dell laptop  I got in February).

At any rate - thanks for all the great suggestions!  Everything is great for now, so now it's time to do a little learning ;)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-04-20
I think you will find Xubuntu to be great.  I used ubuntu Lucid with gnome 2 until about 4 weeks ago, then knowing Lucid was about to lose support, I tried ubuntu 12.04 with unity, and then using classic fallback gnome, but it was too cumbersome for me in either desktop, so I then tried Xubuntu 12.04, and it was instant happiness.

I love it and will stay with it, I think, for a long time to come.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-25
Solution for me was to convert the laptop to a server ;)

---

