---
title: "Error: no such partition grub rescue&gt;"
date: 2011-08-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sfortune on 2011-08-11
Just replaced the hard drive in my Dell Inspiron 6000.  Installed windows XP pro and did all available updates and got all drivers installed.  Backed up PC with an external drive and then attempted to do a new install of Ubuntu 11.04

First time Linux user of any flavor, very new to "terminal".

I used the Ubuntu CD to repartition my HD and I didn't get any errors at any time during the installation.  It asked me to reboot my PC and when I did it came up to:

Error: no such partition
grub rescue>

I loaded the Ubuntu cd and went into trial mode, DLed the boot-repair and ran it both applicable ways without any results.
I got the message [http://paste.ubuntu.com/663462/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/663462/)

I have run a disk scan with the windows CD and everything went fine.  I do not understand "mounting" a drive.  Is that something that I have to do or something that the Ubuntu CD should have done, but did not?

Then I tried to erase and reinstall Ubuntu again with the same results

Here is the boot info script
#                  Boot Info Script 0.60    from 17 May 2011


============================= Boot Info Summary: ===============================

 => Grub2 (v1.99) is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks at sector 1 of 
    the same hard drive for core.img. core.img is at this location and looks 
    for (,msdos6)/boot/grub on this drive.

sda1: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows XP
    Boot sector info:   No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  Windows XP
    Boot files:        /boot.ini /ntldr /NTDETECT.COM

sda2: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda5: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda6: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 11.04
    Boot files:        /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

sda7: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

============================ Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda _____________________________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 250.1 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders, total 488397168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot  Start Sector    End Sector  # of Sectors  Id System

/dev/sda1    *             63   285,001,318   285,001,256   7 NTFS / exFAT / HPFS
/dev/sda2         285,001,726   488,396,799   203,395,074   5 Extended
/dev/sda5         485,271,552   488,396,799     3,125,248  82 Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda6         285,001,728   482,144,255   197,142,528  83 Linux
/dev/sda7         482,146,304   485,259,263     3,112,960  82 Linux swap / Solaris


"blkid" output: ________________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL

/dev/loop0                                              squashfs   
/dev/sda1        424C5E984C5E8717                       ntfs       
/dev/sda5        da2874db-4f54-47df-b729-72526857a6d1   swap       
/dev/sda6        c686c034-1824-446e-9597-9a73aaf9b884   ext4       
/dev/sda7        8fe600af-0baa-4c14-b114-55d61cbfd888   swap       

================================ Mount points: =================================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/loop0       /rofs                    squashfs   (ro,noatime)
/dev/sr0         /cdrom                   iso9660    (ro,noatime)


================================ sda1/boot.ini: ================================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[boot loader] 
timeout=30 
default=multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS 
[operating systems] 
multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS="Microsoft Windows XP Professional" /noexecute=optin /fastdetect 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=========================== sda6/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  set have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ "${prev_saved_entry}" ]; then
  set saved_entry="${prev_saved_entry}"
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then
    saved_entry="${chosen}"
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n "${have_grubenv}" ]; then if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}

function load_video {
  insmod vbe
  insmod vga
  insmod video_bochs
  insmod video_cirrus
}

insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='(/dev/sda,msdos6)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root c686c034-1824-446e-9597-9a73aaf9b884
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=auto
  load_video
  insmod gfxterm
fi
terminal_output gfxterm
insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='(/dev/sda,msdos6)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root c686c034-1824-446e-9597-9a73aaf9b884
set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
set lang=en_US
insmod gettext
if [ "${recordfail}" = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=10
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
if background_color 44,0,30; then
  clear
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
if [ ${recordfail} != 1 ]; then
  if [ -e ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt ]; then
    if hwmatch ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt 3; then
      if [ ${match} = 0 ]; then
        set linux_gfx_mode=keep
      else
        set linux_gfx_mode=text
      fi
    else
      set linux_gfx_mode=text
    fi
  else
    set linux_gfx_mode=keep
  fi
else
  set linux_gfx_mode=text
fi
export linux_gfx_mode
if [ "$linux_gfx_mode" != "text" ]; then load_video; fi
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.38-8-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    set gfxpayload=$linux_gfx_mode
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(/dev/sda,msdos6)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root c686c034-1824-446e-9597-9a73aaf9b884
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic root=UUID=c686c034-1824-446e-9597-9a73aaf9b884 ro   quiet splash vt.handoff=7
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.38-8-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    set gfxpayload=$linux_gfx_mode
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(/dev/sda,msdos6)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root c686c034-1824-446e-9597-9a73aaf9b884
    echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.38-8-generic ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic root=UUID=c686c034-1824-446e-9597-9a73aaf9b884 ro single 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###
### END /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(/dev/sda,msdos6)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root c686c034-1824-446e-9597-9a73aaf9b884
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(/dev/sda,msdos6)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root c686c034-1824-446e-9597-9a73aaf9b884
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Microsoft Windows XP Professional (on /dev/sda1)" --class windows --class os {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ntfs
    set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 424C5E984C5E8717
    drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
    chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###
if [ -f  $prefix/custom.cfg ]; then
  source $prefix/custom.cfg;
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=============================== sda6/etc/fstab: ================================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
/dev/sda6       /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda7 during installation
UUID=8fe600af-0baa-4c14-b114-55d61cbfd888 none            swap    sw              0       0
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=================== sda6: Location of files loaded by Grub: ====================

           GiB - GB             File                                 Fragment(s)

 176.211147308 = 189.205278720  boot/grub/core.img                             1
 176.086891174 = 189.071859712  boot/grub/grub.cfg                             1
 151.727539062 = 162.916204544  boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic               2
 176.031719208 = 189.012619264  boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic                  1
 151.727539062 = 162.916204544  initrd.img                                     2
 176.031719208 = 189.012619264  vmlinuz                                        1

=============================== StdErr Messages: ===============================

unlzma: Decoder error

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-08-13
Hi and welcome to the forums :-)

Check your BIOS whether it "sees" the whole drive or only the first 137GB. If there is an option to change how it sees the drive, enable it.

The problem might be that BIOS cannot see the GRUB files, which are currently beyond the 137GB mark.

However, with newer drives this should not be a problem.

one solution would be to shrink the Ubuntu partition so the files are under that point and then use the remaining space for something else like a data partition.

Another option is to create a separate /boot partition at the beginning of the drive.

Finally, you may want to consider installing Ubuntu first and then Windows. This is not a problem because with 3 commands you can let GRUB take control again after installing Windows.

Let us know what BIOS shows and if you need more help with anything.

---

### Post by sfortune on 2011-08-13
Thanks for the response!  You are correct, the bios only sees the first 137 GB, but it says that I can not change that field.

Since I somehow ended up with two swap partitions I will try installing Ubuntu first and then windows.

What three commands are you speaking of?

---

### Post by sfortune on 2011-08-13
Now I feel even more stupid. So I use the live Ubuntu cd to erase XP and install Ubuntu on the first 100 GB and then I left a partition of about 140GB for XP.

I followed the tutorial I found for installing XP after Ubuntu and it says to use Ubuntu to format an ntfs partition (which was not an option). I used the Dell XP recovery disk to quick format that partiton ntfs and then it installs windows and asks me to eject any disk in slot a and reboot.

When I reboot I immediately boot to a blank screen with a flashing curser.  No Ubuntu or windows!

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-08-13
If you run bootinfoscript from live CD again you will probably see that the MBR is now Windows. If so, you need to reinstall grub. Note the Ubuntu root partition name, probably sda1 now:
sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt /dev/sda

If this gets you in to Ubuntu, run sudo update-grub to add XP to your Grub boot menu.

---

