---
title: "Ubuntu suddenly won't boot... and grub disappeared?"
date: 2010-02-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by robine on 2010-02-11
Hi all,

I've been happily using Ubuntu 9.10 with very few issues for the last couple of months. However, today I rebooted (after Firefox froze), and suddenly everything went wrong!

What's been happening:
I boot up computer. The motherboard screen comes on (and stays longer than normal; about 1 min.). After this, I would usually see "Grub loading..." before the Ubuntu splashscreen. But now... nothing but black screen. And then, the words: "Reboot and Select proper Boot device or Insert Boot Media in selected Boot device and press a key."

I've searched online for help, but it all seems geared towards those comfortable with the Terminal (I have no idea what to do there - I'm very new at this). The only change I've made recently was the installation of an iPod yesterday. I've tried rebooting with all USB cords unplugged (so my mp3 players aren't viewed as separate storage units), but the problem remains.

Please help - any suggestions are most welcome!!

---

### Post by jimingkui on 2010-02-11
something about boot file broken
Try repair the Grub,see:[http://ubuntuguide.net/how-to-restore-grub-2-after-reinstalling-windows-xpvistawin7]("http://ubuntuguide.net/how-to-restore-grub-2-after-reinstalling-windows-xpvistawin7")

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-02-11
You could boot using the live CD and then run meierfra's bootinfoscript and post the results. See the HowTo here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1291280]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1291280")

---

### Post by robine on 2010-02-11
Thanks to both of you for your fast replies. I've just gotten home now.
Here are the contents of the results.txt file:
[INDENT]============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Windows is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda
sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext3
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 9.10
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda5: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 37.0 GB, 37019566080 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4500 cylinders, total 72303840 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xadece77e

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1                  63    39,070,079    39,070,017  83 Linux
/dev/sda2          39,070,080    72,292,499    33,222,420   5 Extended
/dev/sda5          39,070,143    72,292,499    33,222,357  82 Linux swap / Solaris


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/loop0                                              squashfs                                 
/dev/sda1        bea739ac-dc3a-4af4-ba1b-9430e11d5158   ext3                                     
/dev/sda5        760878d8-6c0f-4841-9b96-3c80672605e1   swap                                     

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

aufs             /                        aufs       (rw)
/dev/sr0         /cdrom                   iso9660    (rw)
/dev/loop0       /rofs                    squashfs   (rw)
/dev/sda1        /media/bea739ac-dc3a-4af4-ba1b-9430e11d5158 ext3       (rw,nosuid,nodev,uhelper=devkit)


=========================== sda1/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd1,1)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set bea739ac-dc3a-4af4-ba1b-9430e11d5158
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-16-generic-pae" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    set quiet=1
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd1,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set bea739ac-dc3a-4af4-ba1b-9430e11d5158
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-16-generic-pae root=UUID=bea739ac-dc3a-4af4-ba1b-9430e11d5158 ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-16-generic-pae
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-16-generic-pae (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd1,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set bea739ac-dc3a-4af4-ba1b-9430e11d5158
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-16-generic-pae root=UUID=bea739ac-dc3a-4af4-ba1b-9430e11d5158 ro single 
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-16-generic-pae
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
if [ ${timeout} != -1 ]; then
  if keystatus; then
    if keystatus --shift; then
      set timeout=-1
    else
      set timeout=0
    fi
  else
    if sleep --interruptible 3 ; then
      set timeout=0
    fi
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

=============================== sda1/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# / was on /dev/sdb1 during installation
UUID=bea739ac-dc3a-4af4-ba1b-9430e11d5158 /               ext3    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /home was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=a31097ec-c78d-47b0-9cf0-2cfcd5aff759 /home           ext3    defaults        0       2
# swap was on /dev/sdb5 during installation
UUID=760878d8-6c0f-4841-9b96-3c80672605e1 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

=================== sda1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


    .0GB: boot/grub/core.img
    .0GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
    .0GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-16-generic-pae
    .0GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-16-generic-pae
    .0GB: initrd.img
    .0GB: vmlinuz
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-02-11
First off, windows is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda - this should be Grub2. 
Secondly, it looks like your grub thinks linux is on hd1. I would guess this should be hd0. This might explain why the "files loaded by Grub" are all 0GB (at end of file).
But good news is it looks like your drive is ok. 

So it looks like you need to reinstall grub2. The link by jimingkui has instructions for this or you could try this: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling from LiveCD]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling from LiveCD")

---

### Post by robine on 2010-02-11
> **bcbc said:**
> First off, windows is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda - this should be Grub2. 
Secondly, it looks like your grub thinks linux is on hd1. I would guess this should be hd0. This might explain why the "files loaded by Grub" are all 0GB (at end of file).
But good news is it looks like your drive is ok. 

So it looks like you need to reinstall grub2. The link by jimingkui has instructions for this or you could try this: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling from LiveCD]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling%20from%20LiveCD")

Thanks for responding so fast!! :)

I did have WinXP previously installed, but after switching to 9.10, I never looked back! My dad (a programmer) walked me through the partitioning of my drive when doing the install. However, I can't reach him by phone right now, so that's not an option.

I'll try this and post here right away with the result!

---

### Post by robine on 2010-02-11
Okay. In terminal, I put:
> sudo fdisk -lThe result:
> Disk /dev/sda: 37.0 GB, 37019566080 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4500 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xadece77e

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1        2432    19535008+  83  Linux
/dev/sda2            2433        4500    16611210    5  Extended
/dev/sda5            2433        4500    16611178+  82  Linux swap / SolarisFrom what I understand, this means that 9.10 is installed on /dev/sda1... right?

I then tried in terminal:
> sudo mount /dev/sda1The result:
> mount: /dev/sda1 already mounted or /media/bea739ac-dc3a-4af4-ba1b-9430e11d5158 busy
mount: according to mtab, /dev/sda1 is already mounted on /media/bea739ac-dc3a-4af4-ba1b-9430e11d5158
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ ^C
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ ^C
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ ^C
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ ^CI'm really not sure where to go with this. I am lost :(
Does this make sense to you guys?

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-02-11
You should see a shortcut on your desktop to the hard drive. Just right click on it and choose Unmount. Then the rest should work, and, yes, /dev/sda1 is right.

---

### Post by Miljet on 2010-02-12
Also something doesn't seem right in the fstab file.
```
# / was on /dev/sdb1 during installation
UUID=bea739ac-dc3a-4af4-ba1b-9430e11d5158 / ext3 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# /home was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=a31097ec-c78d-47b0-9cf0-2cfcd5aff759 /home ext3 defaults 0 2
```

It says that / was on sdb1 during installation, but the UUID matches sda1, so that really should not be a problem. But it also says that /home was on sda1 and the UUID doesn't match any available partition.

---

### Post by robine on 2010-02-12
Okay, it worked!!!!!
I did unmount the drive, then followed the rest of the instructions. It said:
> Installation finished. No error reported. This is the contents of the device map  /mnt//boot/grub/device.map. Check if correct or not... fix any incorrect lines and re-run script 'grub-install'.
(hd0)  /dev/sda
(hd1)  /dev/sdbI then rebooted, as per instructions. Upon startup, still received the long waiting time with the motherboard splashscreen, so I was waiting with LiveCD in hand... But then Ubuntu logo appeared! There was an error message saying that something wasn't loading properly (unfortunately, didn't write that down) but to press 'Esc' to run in safe shell.

Now everything seems to be working properly! I'm not sure if I should follow the next step in the list (refresh grub menu with: sudo update-grub) in case something else goes wrong :P

Should I be concerned about the fstab errors mentioned?

I WILL definitely be backing up all files now... just in case.

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-02-12
That's great news. Definitely run the sudo update-grub.

Re. the fstab, I have no idea - was there another hard drive that was missing in action (bootinfoscript only found one)? But if it's all back and working, then - I agree with you - go with the 'backup all files' plan. That's always a good idea :)

---

### Post by robine on 2010-02-12
> **bcbc said:**
> That's great news. Definitely run the sudo update-grub.

Re. the fstab, I have no idea - was there another hard drive that was missing in action (bootinfoscript only found one)? But if it's all back and working, then - I agree with you - go with the 'backup all files' plan. That's always a good idea :)

Update done.

Thank you so much for your fast and lucid help :) It's so appreciated!

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-02-12
You're welcome :)

---

### Post by sandy8925 on 2010-02-12
Am I seeing this right ? Do you actually have a 32 GB swap partition ? Or are you using Solaris ?

---

### Post by robine on 2010-02-12
> **sandy8925 said:**
> Am I seeing this right ? Do you actually have a 32 GB swap partition ? Or are you using Solaris ?

I don't know what Solaris is, and all I know about swap partitions is that they're used to make up for not having enough RAM (which I don't). My dad, who's a programmer, walked me through the installation of 9.10, so I'm assuming he had a reason behind creating that.

What is the normal size of a swap partition? And what's Solaris about? Now I'm curious.

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-02-13
Near as I can tell, you have a 20GB partition with Linux and a 17GB swap. If this is true, then 17GB is excessive. Swap should be at least the size of your RAM, and in your case, you've said you have very little, so it can be bigger. But even 1GB or 2GB should be more than enough. See [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq")

Most of the time swap is doing very little - unless you're running a lot of memory intensive programs. Right now I have 6 programs running and am using 0 (zero) of my 1GB swap. Check using: 
```
$ free
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:       1025384     635636     389748          0      36196     204812
-/+ buffers/cache:     394628     630756
Swap:      1076312          0    1076312

```

Anyway - if you confirm that you have 17GB swap, the good news is you have 16GB of free space waiting to be used when you need it.

---

