---
title: "9.04 to 9.10"
date: 2009-10-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by winjeel on 2009-10-09
Moving form 9.04 to 9.10 will be my first major upgrade with Ubuntu (as 9.04 was my first Ubuntu experience). What should I expect? How does the upgrade work? 

Also, the XP side of my computer is getting ridiculously slow, now, and I'll need to clean install that. Advice? Which should be done first?

Also, time is an issue, I don't have much time to play around with my computer, I need to spend more time USING my computer for work and study.

Advice for a busy bee? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by MelDJ on 2009-10-09
maybe use xp in virtualbox: [http://www.virtualbox.org/](http://www.virtualbox.org/)
and can you be more clear as to what you want to know? maybe point them out

---

### Post by Lampi on 2009-10-09
> **winjeel said:**
> Advice for a busy bee? Thanks in advance.
-Learn how to backup/restore the current 9.04 Installation (in the rare case sth does go wrong you might need it)
-set up some coffee (the update takes a while)
-sit back and relax, watching the bits and bytes :D

---

### Post by misfitpierce on 2009-10-09
First thing first before telling winjeel to just use virtualbox for XP... What is the main use of your WinXP partition Winjeel?

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2009-10-09
Options:

1. Backup personal files -> Reinstall Windows -> Fresh install 9.10 -> retrieve backed up files.

or

2. Backup personal files -> Upgrade to 9.10 using Update manager -> Reinstall Windows -> Manually reinstall Grub.

I'd recommend option 1.  Faster overall, and needs less thought / interaction.  The longest process will be the Windows reinstallation.

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-10-09
For Karmic I would advise a clean install if you use ext3 partitions with Jaunty. If you use ext4 with Jaunty you could do the upgrade.

The upgrade process is described here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JauntyUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JauntyUpgrades)
Although it is described for Intreped (8.10) to Jaunty (9.04) the principle stays the same. Proven technology as I would call it.

If you don't want to spent much time after the upgrade, I would wait a month after the release to upgrade for things to settle down. And use clonezilla to backup your root partition so you can restore when needed.

---

### Post by winjeel on 2009-10-09
Thanks for the replies.

> **misfitpierce said:**
> First thing first before telling winjeel to just use virtualbox for XP... What is the main use of your WinXP partition Winjeel?
For LightRoom, Skype (video and voice conferencing), and iTunes (I do hate iTunes, but ... long story).

> **ugm6hr said:**
> Options:

1. Backup personal files -> Reinstall Windows -> Fresh install 9.10 -> retrieve backed up files.

or

2. Backup personal files -> Upgrade to 9.10 using Update manager -> Reinstall Windows -> Manually reinstall Grub.

I'd recommend option 1.  Faster overall, and needs less thought / interaction.  The longest process will be the Windows reinstallation.

Where and how do I find (a) Grub? I keep all my files on an external drive anyway, so no problem. I'll probably do option 1. If I did, are there any prob's to be expected if fresh installing 9.10 in the ubuntu partition? I assume it'll ask where I want to put it, and I assume there's an option to choose the existing option.

---

### Post by SoftPops on 2009-10-09
> **winjeel said:**
> Also, time is an issue, I don't have much time to play around with my computer, I need to spend more time USING my computer for work and study.
 
If you are looking at upgrading rather than a fresh install and thinking purely of the time aspect (and this probably highly depends on your internet download speed) when I was looking at upgrading from 8.10 to 9.04 Update Manager reckoned it would take 7 hours to download 9.04. I found it quicker to download the alternate CD image, copy the image to CD and then upgrade from the CD.  I think the whole process then took me approx 2 hours.
 
Good Luck.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2009-10-09
> **winjeel said:**
> Where and how do I find (a) Grub? I keep all my files on an external drive anyway, so no problem. I'll probably do option 1. If I did, are there any prob's to be expected if fresh installing 9.10 in the ubuntu partition? I assume it'll ask where I want to put it, and I assume there's an option to choose the existing option.

If you don't know what Grub is, then you are better off with option 1.  Do a bit of searching here for "How to reinstall Grub after installing Windows" or some variation on that if you want to know more.

If your files are on an external, it is definitely easier to use option 1.  However - remember a fresh install will:
1. Remove any modifications to your desktop
2. Remove all your email and web browser settings (e.g. inbox, bookmarks etc)
3. Not automatically reinstall any non-standard applications

Therefore, if you want to prevent this issue:
1. Reinstall using the same *username* as you have at present.
2. Backup and copy back your /home/*username* directory
3. Either manually reinstall applications (I would recommend this to ensure you don't reinstall unnecessary packages which you may have accumulated by experimentation), or there is a method to save and restore package lists here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=261366](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=261366)

When you reinstall, you can either use the Alternate or Live CD (I personally use Live CD, since it is useful to have available).  Both will allow you to use a Manual install method to select which partition to use - just choose the current Ubuntu partition with mountpoint of "/" and the swap partition just needs to be selected for use.  This is fairly self-explanatory, but if you are unsure, just post a screenshot when you get to that stage and someone will tell you which partition to use.

---

### Post by winjeel on 2009-10-09
Thanks so much for that detailed reply, it's greatly appreciated. :)

---

### Post by itsbrad212 on 2009-10-09
yea all you have to do is backup files, Reinstall XP 
(you might want to format your hard drive), then install karmic.

---

### Post by Bölvaður on 2009-10-09
> **itsbrad212 said:**
> yea all you have to do is backup files, Reinstall XP 
(you might want to format your hard drive), then install karmic.

I second that because you are still getting your feet wet in the Linux experience.

If you'd be older and lazier user you might just use the update option in update manager instead of doing a fresh install of 9.10 and just wipe the xp partition off.

---

### Post by winjeel on 2009-11-02
Just to let you know what happened. I did this:

1. Backup mail in both XP and 9.04 (Evolution), and address books
2. Made backup copies of LightRoom presets and metadata
3. Kissed iTunes goodbye
4. Moved any last forgotten files to the external drive
5. Did final checks to be sure all's well and nothing important would be lost, then...
6. Reinstalled XP... three times (I couldn't find drivers for connecting to the Internet via LAN. It turns out that on the Dell driver disk, the options that are ticked doesn't mean they are installed, it means that the hardware is present... one full day lost... grrr)
Interestingly, both Grub and 9.04 survived intact. I had three boot options
i. Windows XP Profesional
ii. Ubutnu
iii. Windows XP Professional Install (or some title similar)
7. Reinstalled onto XP Firefox, LightRoom and some other bits I occasionally use (and iTunes for the iPhone :( {the iPhone is good, not great, but good; iTunes *is* the Weakest Link, though})

What's next? I'll leave 9.10 to finish brewing for a month or two, then I'll download it and all the stablising up dates.

Thanks all for your help. It was really appreciated.  :D

---

