---
title: "9.10 not using any swap?"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mlthmp on 2009-11-04
Is it "normal" for Ubuntu to never use any of it's "Swap memory" ?

I've recently upgraded my laptop to 9.10 before putting it on my main system (desktop) and I've noticed that its never using any of its swap. Is that normal?

It's always on 0.0% of 2.8GB Was just wondering if that seems right to you guys. I know before when I was running 8.10 on this system it always used some of it's swap, but 9.10 has yet to use any that I've noticed.

---

### Post by Byrd740 on 2009-11-04
If Ubuntu isn't using swap than it probably isn't needed.  Ubuntu figures out itself when swap is needed.  It all depends on how much ram you have.  The more ram, the less swap is needed.

---

### Post by synicalx on 2009-11-04
I guess it'll only use it's swap partition if it needs to, eg your multitasking or doing heavy work like video editing. If you haven't done any of that sort of stuff yet it probably has had no reason to use the swap?

What sort of processes have you been running and how much RAM do you have?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-11-04
If your system doesn't need to use swap, then it won't. Only occasionally does it use swap when it doesn't need to (after a couple of days, my system starts using 1% swap with 6 GiB of RAM, under 1 GiB used!).

---

### Post by madmax75 on 2009-11-05
Yep, no swapping here either.

I have 2 GB of memory, and Ubuntu just uses only about 13 percent of it or so. The usual memory load of Ubuntu on my system is some 250 to 300 MB. So plenty of room to play around there. So far, my system has never used any of the swap memory available, because it is just not needed.

This is a very good thing, so don't worry :D

---

### Post by NickJones on 2009-11-05
Yup, where as on my 512mb of Ram it uses about 50% of it :-)

---

### Post by delphiexile on 2009-11-05
Swap is used when needed , you'll find so useful especially when do doing many tasks at the same time , it happened to me one time that i used 1Gb of swap.

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-11-05
Got 2 gig ram here, usually it uses none. Mine is currently using this.

```
free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          2009        759       1249          0         34        199
-/+ buffers/cache:        525       1484
Swap:         1906        178       1727

```

This is because I just came out of hibernate. This is when the system uses it for real. And suspend of course.

---

### Post by edok on 2009-11-05
> **mlthmp said:**
> Is it "normal" for Ubuntu to never use any of it's "Swap memory" ?

I've recently upgraded my laptop to 9.10 before putting it on my main system (desktop) and I've noticed that its never using any of its swap. Is that normal?

It's always on 0.0% of 2.8GB Was just wondering if that seems right to you guys. I know before when I was running 8.10 on this system it always used some of it's swap, but 9.10 has yet to use any that I've noticed.
Nothing to worry about, it's normal. Swap is used only when sys ram is comparatively low, or when "heavy apps" are being run.

---

