---
title: "12.04 - cheese aborts"
date: 2012-10-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-10
Is there some sort of configuration file or process for cheese?  I have a Logitech C310 or some such thing, and when I start cheese it aborts.  It seems to work with Skype ok.  I ran it in a terminal and got some warnings and then an error about the camera not being defined or some such thing.

Forgot to include the info from the screen in case it helps:

```
dave@dave-desktop:~$ cheese

(cheese:2398): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to add a widget with type GtkImage to a GtkToggleButton, but as a GtkBin subclass a GtkToggleButton can only contain one widget at a time; it already contains a widget of type GtkLabel

(cheese:2398): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to add a widget with type GtkImage to a GtkToggleButton, but as a GtkBin subclass a GtkToggleButton can only contain one widget at a time; it already contains a widget of type GtkLabel

(cheese:2398): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to add a widget with type GtkImage to a GtkToggleButton, but as a GtkBin subclass a GtkToggleButton can only contain one widget at a time; it already contains a widget of type GtkLabel

(cheese:2398): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to add a widget with type GtkImage to a GtkButton, but as a GtkBin subclass a GtkButton can only contain one widget at a time; it already contains a widget of type GtkLabel

(cheese:2398): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to add a widget with type GtkGrid to a GtkToggleButton, but as a GtkBin subclass a GtkToggleButton can only contain one widget at a time; it already contains a widget of type GtkLabel

(cheese:2398): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to add a widget with type GtkImage to a GtkButton, but as a GtkBin subclass a GtkButton can only contain one widget at a time; it already contains a widget of type GtkLabel

** (cheese:2398): CRITICAL **: cheese_camera_device_get_uuid: assertion `CHEESE_IS_CAMERA_DEVICE (device)' failed
Segmentation fault (core dumped)
dave@dave-desktop:~$
```

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-10
I think I may know what the problem is, but I don't have a clue what to do.  Following another post on the internet, I installed guvcview.  It came up with an error box about device is not a camera - that's when I found out it's defaulting to Huagepuage (sp?) video capture card that is in the PC but I don't know how to use.  I had to change the device to the only USB device that showed.

Do I need to do something to set the default device for cheese?

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-10
In the online documentation I could find for cheese, it says it uses gstreamer as a back-end.  It also described running gstreamer-properties to configure which device is used for video input.  Indeed, it was set on the Haugepauge card, so I changed it to the device UVC Camera (04f6:0819) and clicked "test" and it worked.  I then exited and tried cheese again and got the same error.  I can't find a cheese parameters or configuration file.

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-10-10
If you go to Edit>Preferences in Cheese, does it list both of your video inputs under Device?

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-10-10
Just a tip that has nothing to do with the problem.

When you post stuff like this

dave@dave-desktop:~$ cheese

(cheese:2398): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to add a widget with type GtkImage to a GtkToggleButton, but as a GtkBin subclass a GtkToggleButton can only contain one widget at a time; it already contains a widget of type GtkLabel


use the button at the top of the post window that is marked # and put the output between the code tags that appear. Then, it will appear in a box that has a scroll bar if the output is long, and it will be posted as the literal text without some of it being mistakenly interpreted as a smiley. :)

```
dave@dave-desktop:~$ cheese

(cheese:2398): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to add a widget with type GtkImage to a GtkToggleButton, but as a GtkBin subclass a GtkToggleButton can only contain one widget at a time; it already contains a widget of type GtkLabel
```

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-10
Will do - thanks!

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-11
Bump since my last request for help.  I really need to find out how to set the default video device for cheese prior to loading it.  As shown in my post at the beginning, cheese aborts so I can't even get to any kind of configuration screen with it.  I assume that means I have to set the default video device prior to running it.  I changed the default in gstreamer-properties, but it makes no difference for cheese.  What is happening is that it is picking my Haugepauge video capture card and I can't find a way to change the default to my web cam. 

If no config file, does anyone know if there is some sort of rule I need to put in the udev rules for the web cam (also to perhaps tell the system to execute some script when the web cam is detected.

If it makes any kind of difference, the web cam doesn't "turn on" for lack of a better way of saying it until a program accesses it - then the light on the web cam shows its in use.

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-10-11
Removed

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-12
Well, I guess I'll just have to settle with guvcview - I don't know if it does the same/everything as cheese does - I've just seen cheese mentioned as "the" things to install with a web camera.

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-13
Unless there is some need to do so, I'm not marking this thread as solved, since I don't have a solution yet.

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-19
Ok, don't know what was wrong with this in 12.04, but after upgrading to 12.10 cheese works fine now.  Go figure?

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-11-01
The thread is marked a solved - please use your own threads.

Also, please note that if this is a bug in 12.04, so be it, but if you go to 12.10 it works - at least that's what happened with me.  I changed nothing - just upgraded.

So *PLEASE* use your own thread(s).  I've already marked this as solved because it is for me.  Most people ignore solved threads unless they are looking for answers - they don't post in them.  As I said before, you will get MUCH better luck opening your own thread.  I'm not going to change this back just because someone else has a problem.

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-11-01
> **newb85 said:**
> It's a known bug.  

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cheese/+bug/930671](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cheese/+bug/930671)

Marking it as affecting you will boost the likelihood/speed that it will be fixed.

Also, moving those posts to a new thread seems less appropriate than moving it to one of these other threads matching their symptoms.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2074732](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2074732)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2025403](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2025403)

It's marked solved - I'm not changing that.  People looking to help people only look at solved threads looking for an answer - not for adding more requests that aren't from the original poster.  It is thread hijacking anyway.

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-11-01
I wasn't asking you to change that.  I was merely pointing out that there doesn't need to be a new thread for their symptoms when two such threads already exist.  Those links were for Gnawnsense and held7over.

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-11-01
And hence why they should be in separate threads.  I only advised that for you, and mentioned it to the moderators, because this is what happens in situations like this - the question doesn't get addressed because the thread is marked as solved, and then a big p*****g contest starts when it is just so much easier to start a new thread so that the person reporting the problem can get the attention they need and deserve, instead of getting caught up like this.

On behalf of Ubuntu users everywhere, let me apologize that some haven't seen the reason for not using a thread that is marked solved.  I'm also very surprised the moderators didn't open a new thread for you as I asked for a lot earlier in the day.

Unfortunately, I don't know the answer to your problem, only what worked for me.

I would suggest you open your own thread since no one has done that for you yet.  Again, I am sorry you got caught up in all of this instead of getting your question answered.  A new thread should help you greatly.  Sorry I can't be of more help.

I have again asked the moderators to move these to their own threads, and close this thread so nobody can make more posts into a "dead" thread.

---

### Post by lisati on 2012-11-01
Thread closed for staff review

---

### Post by Toz on 2012-11-01
The secondary set of Cheese issues have been moved to a new thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2079450]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2079450").

---

