---
title: "ATI Radeon 9550, Viewsonic VA1930wm &amp; DVI/HDMI"
date: 2008-05-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lefo on 2008-05-23
Please help!

I'm working okay in Analog, but I'm having a horrible time trying to figure out how to attach a DVI cable and get it to work in Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy...

The ATI Radeon card and the Viewsonic monitor has the DVI jacks, the cable is in correctly, but when trying to use Digital, the monitor will boot up into the Compaq boot screen, then I get my Ubuntu boot screen, and then...nothing.  (Sigh)  I can hear the sound of the tom-tom's going off when you need to log in, but there's nothing on the monitor.  The monitor says that there's No Signal coming through AFTER Ubuntu starts to load.

I'm guessing this has something to do with the xorg.config file, but I don't know.  What I need are some step by step instructions to either find out if Ubuntu's going to let me use the DVI capabilities of the card and monitor, and if so how to set it up.

I'm really going to appreciate the help!

Thank you.

lefo

---

### Post by lefo on 2008-05-23
Respectfully bumping for your viewing and head scratching pleasure...

---

### Post by Faud on 2008-05-23
Have you read thru this thread ?

[http://ubuntu-utah.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=689119](http://ubuntu-utah.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=689119)

---

### Post by lefo on 2008-05-27
Thanks for the link, but I think I might have some other issues at hand.  If anyone does have the same type of configuration in hardware that I've stated above and can assist me by PM, I would greatly appreciate it.

Thank you.

lefo

---

### Post by lefo on 2008-05-28
I've tried editing my xorg.config file, but keep getting kicked into Safe Mode.  Luckily, I've got a copy of a working xorg.config file I can use when I bugger up the working copy.

I'd like to try to do this in stages if anyone can help me.

1st, I'd like to try to get my monitor and graphics card listed properly in the config file.

2nd, I'd like to see about properly getting the keyboard/mouse settings (Wacom Tablet appears to be fine, but I've noticed from other posts that mine is...sparse(?) in comparison.

3rd, I'd like to know what the codes are to insert into the config file that will allow me to use the DVI cable from the Radeon card to the Viewsonic monitor.

I really will appreciate any help I can get.  I would like to continue using Ubuntu...I love it!...But, might have to revert back to XP and its drivers to get everthing to work.

Thanks for your patience, folks.  I'm learning a lot, but this one has got me stumped.

My current config file is:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"	"true"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"Wacom Pen"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"Mode"	"absolute"
	Option		"PressCurve"	"50,0,100,50"# Default is "0,0,100,100"
	Option		"USB"	"on"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"Wacom Eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"Mode"	"absolute"
	Option		"USB"	"on"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"Wacom Mouse"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"Mode"	"relative"
	Option		"USB"	"on"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Wacom Pen"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Wacom Eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Wacom Mouse"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-05-28
I don't know, I recently changed my monitor over from analog to dvi and added another one and the system adjusted itself when it booted up. 

What does Xorg.0.log tell you about the monitor, it should detect it and give the specs.

You may need to reconfigure x and/or your video driver. I don't know the exact commands, and it depends on which video driver you are using. Maybe we could help out if you give us some more information along those lines. It should be available in the /var/log/Xorg.0.log. Anything in there with (EE) is especially important.

---

### Post by lefo on 2008-05-29
> **markbuntu said:**
> I don't know, I recently changed my monitor over from analog to dvi and added another one and the system adjusted itself when it booted up. 

What does Xorg.0.log tell you about the monitor, it should detect it and give the specs.

You may need to reconfigure x and/or your video driver. I don't know the exact commands, and it depends on which video driver you are using. Maybe we could help out if you give us some more information along those lines. It should be available in the /var/log/Xorg.0.log. Anything in there with (EE) is especially important.

Thank you for the reply!  I'm at work at the moment, but will look over that log report.  Didn't even know about it.  Thanks.

lefo

---

### Post by lefo on 2008-05-29
I'm going to upload the file.  Apparently, the BBS system thinks that I'm putting in smilies/images...

---

### Post by lefo on 2008-05-31
Just wondering if anyone has had a chance to look over that log file...

TIA

lefo

---

### Post by lefo on 2008-06-02
Respectfully bumping...

---

