---
title: "[8.10] Mouse is... twitchy? randomly moves when i click sometimes"
date: 2008-11-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by earthpigg on 2008-11-24
so i click on the x to close a window.

BAM!

mouse suddenly takes off super fast for the other edge of the screen.

i click 'ok' to some random dialog box.

BAM!

mouse moves 6 inches in the opposite direction.

makes it very difficult to double click sometimes. i haven't been able to find a pattern to it.

i still have 8.04 on another partition, and it does not happen there.

usb mouse, on a laptop. im not skimming over the trackpad or anything... it also happens when i unplug the mouse and just use the trackpad.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2008-11-24
bump

---

### Post by HerCsD on 2008-11-24
[SIZE="2"]Out of curiosity...what kind of mouse do u have???If it's M$...go figure or in other words buy another one.From my personal experience Logitech has the best ones.Hit'em,smash'em,throw'em;they just don't break(actually the do but given the violence I've used upon them :-P).Had 2 M$ mouses and after six months...the one just denied to play 'nice' with anything related to *buntu and the other was having some on/offs out of the blue.At least the "failed" one plays nice with my winXP system :roll: because the other is in my personal "recycle bin":twisted: :rolleyes:.[/SIZE]

---

### Post by slakerx on 2008-11-24
Do you by chance have a joypad plugged in? I had an issue where my mouse pointer acted like a rubber band, getting stuck in the center of the screen. Everything worked fine in 8.04, but in 8.10 my mouse was useless. After unplugging my joypad, I have not encountered the problem. I don't know if I need to just calibrate it or not.

---

### Post by Sinkingships7 on 2008-11-24
If you have a laser mouse, make sure it's not being used on a reflective surface. The stuff your describing fits perfectly with that problem... Of course, with it not happening in 8.04, that might not be the problem at all.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2008-11-25
saitek mouse

no joystick or other human interface devices

ill double check the surface im using it on when i get home... maybe when i sit up to reboot for a few minutes my mousing hand wanders to a diff part of my desk?

thanks guys.


any other ideas?

---

