---
title: ".php????"
date: 2008-05-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Quinn The Eskimo on 2008-05-17
ok i just finally made the switch to hardy from gusty
backed everything up
fresh install
spent all night tweaking it to my liking and i'm all ready to go
well almost...
one of the websites i visit won't just open like it use to
i get a message asking what i want to do with the PHP file
i know i don't want to save it i want to open it... with what though?
it doesn't give me choices or anything just the option to browse my whole hard drive for the right program to open it with
even if i knew what program i have no idea where it is or what part of it i need to click on to properly select it
anyone know?

---

### Post by Quinn The Eskimo on 2008-05-17
almost half an hour and nobody even opened this yet so i'll bump before i'm buried

---

### Post by kellemes on 2008-05-17
Emptying your firefox cache may help.

---

### Post by bsharp on 2008-05-17
This isn't your problem. PHP is a server-side language, and the file isn't being parsed through the PHP interpreter.  It's likely that they just moved hosts and haven't gotten everything configured correctly yet.

---

### Post by Bloch on 2008-05-17
Gosh, that last reply is a bit technical.
What he means is the website is simply faulty. 
Websites URL end in 
.html
.htm
.php
.asp
.stm
and a few others. html is the basic standard. .php and .asp websites tend to contain things like shopping carts, forums, complex news sites etc.

---

