---
title: "8.10 difficulties with flash player 10"
date: 2008-12-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Xylia on 2008-12-22
I just started using Ubuntu a couple of days ago, and I've been having issues with the flash in firefox. It will sometimes be fine, but sometimes after waking up (from suspension or hibernation, I haven't noticed a difference) flash won't work completely. Youtube videos, for example, will load and begin to play without audio, and then freeze a couple seconds in. The problem temporarily goes away when I reboot.

I've tried reinstalling flash player and the firefox plugin, but it doesn't seem to make a difference, and everything is up-to-date as far as I can tell. Any suggestions would be appreciated.

---

### Post by nhasian on 2008-12-22
you dont need to reboot, you can just log out and log back in and the problem goes away.  I havent figured out precisely why but i'm pretty sure its due to the flash 10 plugin.

---

### Post by Zeedok on 2008-12-22
This might be a stupid question - I apologise if it is - but are you sure that Flash player 10 is being used in your firefox.  In other words, is another flash player (eg Gnash player).  Having both installed can cause problems (I've encountered some problems before). Check in synaptic and uninstall gnash and mozilla-plugin-gnash to see if that helps.

Maybe that's not your issue, but it might be worth trying.

---

### Post by cb34 on 2008-12-22
good suggestion from Zeedok. :D and if that doesn't turn up anything, i would purge any flash packages you have installed, then grab the .tar.gz file off adobe's site instead of using whats in the repo, extract the tar.gz and either just run the script provided or move the libflashplayer.so file to $HOME/.mozilla/plugins, and for firefox to read any new plugins.. you should delete the xpti.dat file in $HOME/.mozilla dir. when firefox starts it will recreate that file.. and you should be good to go. :D
[http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/](http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/)

---

### Post by Xylia on 2008-12-22
Thanks for the suggestions, guys. Unfortunately, I've tried them and the problem remains. :(

---

### Post by Xylia on 2008-12-27
Any other thoughts?

---

### Post by Garyhans on 2008-12-27
I've found that in some cases right clicking the video and turning off hardware acceleration helps but I haven't has to do that for a while.

---

### Post by cb34 on 2009-01-08
i hope this helps:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1034369](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1034369)

---

### Post by danmpem on 2009-01-11
> **Zeedok said:**
> This might be a stupid question - I apologise if it is - but are you sure that Flash player 10 is being used in your firefox.  In other words, is another flash player (eg Gnash player).  Having both installed can cause problems (I've encountered some problems before). Check in synaptic and uninstall gnash and mozilla-plugin-gnash to see if that helps.

Maybe that's not your issue, but it might be worth trying.

:cool:  Yep, that was it.  Thanks!

---

