---
title: "11.10 Cursor Freezes"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GrouchyGaijin on 2011-10-14
Hi Everyone,

I used the upgrade option from 11.04 to 11.10 and among other things I now have a problem with my cursor freezing every once in a while.  So far it has been when I've tried to use the menu in a DVD or compose email in Gmail.

I'm running a Dell Inspiron 1520 using the trackpad.  I haven't tried with a USB mouse.

Has anyone else had this happen?

---

### Post by galtom84 on 2011-10-15
Hi.

Yes it happens me too.

---

### Post by HolyDonut on 2011-10-15
I don't know what causes it. But I have been able to use an external usb mouse when it happens. It seems to just affect the trackpad on my laptop.

Also restarting x (ctrl alt backspace) lets you use your trackpad again.

---

### Post by GrouchyGaijin on 2011-10-15
So far 11.10 has been less than a smooth "upgrade".

1. The file manager crashed almost every time I opened it.  It seems that uninstalling the Ubuntu One client solved that problem.
Odd that something they seem so proud of would cause a crash in something as essential as the  file manager.

2. My cursor would freeze periodically throughout the day.  It seems that unchecking disable track pad while typing fixes that.

3. Clipit now behaves erratically.  Its a roll of the dice as to what Ctrl+V will actually paste into a document.

4. I've had to go back to Conky 1.8.0 in order for my Conky to work.

5. I've had to tweak my conkys in order to get things to display in 11.10 that displayed fine in 11.04 - this is after going back to 1.8.0.

OK I guess I'm whining a bit.  This after all a free OS, so maybe I should be happy that it works as well as it does.

What is up with the four themes and no screensaver?  OK I got xscreensaver working so now I see photos of my kids when I'm not working.  I read a few web pages about adding themes, however the ppa that was listed in one apparently isn't working or updated for 11.10.  I get an error that it couldn't be found.  I found a way to manually change the icons, which I thought was cool until I realized the little gear icon and all that it represents was no longer in the panel like thing at the top of the screen.  So back to the Uber-ugly Ubuntu-mono-light which is the least of the ugly that comes shipped with the OS.

OK now I know that I am whining.

I had 11.04 tweaked so nicely and I'd hate to have to redo it all from scratch as frankly I can't remember how I did everything.  Guess that is a reason to take better notes.

Sigh

XFCE is looking pretty good.

---

### Post by bobthesob on 2011-10-18
I solved the problem with creating a new user and deleting all the files releated to the other user. Now everything works perfectly.

---

### Post by Rendsvig on 2011-11-08
A less radical solution is to issue the command
```
synclient TouchpadOff=0
```
as suggested [here.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1852081&page=4")

---

### Post by Cushie on 2012-01-13
'synclient TouchpadOff=0'  may be a work around providing you can work without the cursor to do so.  
Maybe just easier to log out (CTL Alt Del) and log back in again is another work around.

---

### Post by Rainbow_Dash on 2012-01-13
I get that issue when the DVD drive is in use or the CPU usage is higher (like when running VMs).

---

