---
title: "9.04 problems   E:Problem parsing dependency Depends"
date: 2009-09-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ianeazca8 on 2009-09-22
Every time I try to update, this is the message I get. 

E: Problem parsing dependency Depends, \
E: Error occurred while processing libgdl-1-0 (NewVersion1), 
E: Problem with MergeList /var/lib/dpkg/status,
E: The package lists or status file could not be parsed or opened.

I went to /var/lib/dpkg/status but I couldn't find anything. Some people were saying that there were misspellings and things, but so far, I haven't found anything.

I would love to update my computer!!

Any help would be greatly appreciated

---

### Post by mikeyphi on 2009-09-22
This may help - it won't cause any further problem!!

Open a terminal and enter the following:
sudo dpkg --configure -a

enter your password when prompted.

---

### Post by ianeazca8 on 2009-09-22
This is what I got from the terminal

dpkg: parse error, in file `/var/lib/dpkg/status' near line 33453 package `libgdl-1-0':
 `Depends' field, syntax error after reference to package `libatk1.0-0'


I went to that line and found an error, but it won't let me save it. 

It says I don't have the right permissions.

---

### Post by ianeazca8 on 2009-09-22
alright, so I used nautilus to change that so i could save the error... now i'm getting a whole new error.

it won't let me copy and paste, but it's something about a parse error in that same file. It says that there is an error code 2 and that 'i~sta' is not allowed for the first want word in the status field

I'm also being told I have 4 broken packages. I tried to reinstall them, but I get the above error in the package manager too.

Would it just be easier to reinstall at this point, or am I going to have these problems still?

I feel like the amount of time I've spent trying to get this to work is a lot more than what it would take to reinstall.

---

