---
title: "9.04 update"
date: 2009-04-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Wovaki on 2009-04-20
Hello

Currently I have Ubuntu 8.10 installed using Wubi, I want to know if I will be able to update Ubuntu through the update manager with a Wubi install...it won't partition my drives or screw something up will it?

Or will I have to wait and download the .ISO file again?

Thanks!
Wovaki

---

### Post by nandemonai on 2009-04-20
Should be able to upgrade no worries. And no, it wont mess with your partitions.

---

### Post by Cypher on 2009-04-20
Package upgrades do not mess with partitions. It literally looks at the list of packages you have currently installed, if a newer version is available, it will download it and replace your existing copy.

Everything else (including your profile settings) and all should remain exactly the same.

The only thing that might change is if you've modified the settings of some system level package, during the upgrade process you'll be asked if you wish to keep your changes or replace them with the pristine version from the package.

Apart from that, the upgrade to 9.04 should proceed with little fanfare..

---

### Post by Hospadar on 2009-04-20
It's never a bad idea to make a backup of crucial data though.  As above though, there should be no problem.  The update shouldn't touch anything in your home directory.

---

### Post by stchman on 2009-04-20
> **Wovaki said:**
> Hello

Currently I have Ubuntu 8.10 installed using Wubi, I want to know if I will be able to update Ubuntu through the update manager with a Wubi install...it won't partition my drives or screw something up will it?

Or will I have to wait and download the .ISO file again?

Thanks!
Wovaki

Yes, you will.

I do however recommend that you do not do a WUBI install.  Problem with WUBI is that when you are on the Windows side your Ubuntu install will be at the mercy of viruses and spyware not to mention that your install will have to deal with the shortcomings of NTFS.

Do a clean install and dual boot giving Ubuntu it's own EXT3 partition.

---

