---
title: "11.10 - Tried EVERYTHING!! Cannot play DVDs"
date: 2012-03-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by UnknownFearNG on 2012-03-11
Really frustrating. I have followed the Ubuntu Community page for support on DVD playback, installed libdvdcss2 and everything that needs to be installed, and still I cannot play DVDs. In Movie Player, it used to complain about encryption, but it stopped. Now, however, it just freezes. VLC will go to play it, but the orang pilon will not go away. Any help with this?

---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2012-03-11
have you instatted the restricted extras for ubuntu. if not open the software center and search for restricted and install for ubuntu. just a though

---

### Post by UnknownFearNG on 2012-03-11
I already have restricted extras installed.

---

### Post by UnknownFearNG on 2012-03-11
Found out what the problem was.
> 
If DVD playback is noticeably choppy or burning a CD/DVD is slower than it should be, then you may need to enable DMA transfer for the DVD drive. See the DMA (Direct Memory Access) page for details. The other (quicker) fix for this is to delete the ~/.dvdcss/ folder, if you have attempted to play a DVD without everything set up perfectly the incorrect CSS key will always be used. Deleting this folder causes the key to be rebuilt.

Works perfectly after removing the ~/.dvdcss/ folder. Tested a few DVDs just to make sure.:D

---

### Post by lwalper on 2012-04-19
Same problem - installed extras, VLC - still no video playback. Searched for dvdcss folder in the file manger using the search tool and come up with nothing. Where is it located?

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-04-19
> **UnknownFearNG said:**
> ...the ~/.dvdcss/ folder.


The ~/ means /home/username. If your user name were, for instance, john, the folder would be at
/home/john/.dvdcss

The point at the start of the folder name means that it is hidden. You have to got to the view menu in the file browser and enable "view hidden files" to be able to see it.

---

### Post by Curtis6767 on 2012-04-19
I think this is the article the OP was referring to: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/PlayingDVDs](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/PlayingDVDs)

---

### Post by lwalper on 2012-04-19
OK thanks, everything seems to be working now.

---

