---
title: "Unable to get X11 to work for 9.10 Live CD"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Bodmin on 2009-10-30
I am rather confident that it is an issue relating to configuration. My monitor is a NEC AccuSync LCD9v and the video card is Geforce 7300GT. The pc is i386/32bit. When I am loading the livecd (try ubuntu with no changes...) the screen will eventually give me an out of range error.  I can Ctrl-Alt-F1 thru F8. On F8 it appears that I am getting loading feedback, and no sign of error. (I wish I could scroll through that but o well.) On F7 all I get is the out of range error on the monitor, like it cant configure the display. On F1 I get a terminal prompt, no errors and can ls and reboot. 

I can't find in any of the recent posts any refernce on this kind of situation. I've tried using the safe graphics option at the startup screen for the live cd, The only way that I can get 9.1 to load is to first install 9.04 then upgrade. That took me over 8 1/2 hrs to do last nite. 

I even tried loading in the driver disk that came with my video card but that didnt work. I have no idea what kind of driver to burn on a dvd but I could try that if I knew what to get or look for.

I tried to find a Xorg.conf file somewhere, but no luck.

Any suggestions? I would like to be able to install 9.10 with X11 runnning without having to go the upgrade route.

Thanks

---

### Post by phidia on 2009-10-30
The thread [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1260518") may be of some help.
Xorg has changed and been changing for some time now-making help with that a little tricky.

---

### Post by Bodmin on 2009-10-30
Nope. 

I tried to use 'gdm stop' to shut down the xserver, that didnt work, said it couldnt find gnome.Desktop.manager.

rebooted into recovery mode and tried to create the xorg.conf file, but I still had the same response from my monitor (out of range error)

I guess I need to learn a lot more about Xorg.

If I ever figure out how to get the live cd to work for me Ill post it up. Maybe it will help someone. 

For the time being im going back to 9.04 At least that works.

---

### Post by phidia on 2009-10-31
If you type > startx in CLI (since you don't have a GUI that's what you'll be in anyway)-you may get some useful output.
There is a wiki [here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config") for the most recent xorg info.
AND [this page]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution") of the wiki deals with the error you've posted about.
You could consider using a different version of 9.10 perhaps the alternate version would work and finally consider reporting this as a bug at [launchpad]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu").

---

### Post by Gettingthere on 2009-11-02
Just quickly, I have this exact same problem. I've been using Ubuntu for a few years now, and I skipped updating to the previous distro release, and I was looking forward to clean installing with 9.10

Unfortunately I have booted up the CD, and I cannot get it to display. Any monitor I try it with reports out of range, and I can find no way to configure X, or get it to choose a resolution that will actually work. Very annoying and quite disappointing because I can't even get to try it out, instead I might be sticking with the older one I have.

I didn't have this problem when installing 9.10 to my laptop, just this desktop computer I have, which has an nVidia GeForce 7400.

---

### Post by Gettingthere on 2009-11-02
Haha, how's this for things you don't expect to work?

I was determined to see if I could get it to display at all. I could get into the terminal by going Ctrl+Alt+F1, so I was seeing what I could do.

I had just read here on the forums that typically things have changed, and there is no xorg.conf file created to edit. But if there is one, it would use those settings. Well, I wouldn't have a clue about how that file is structured or anything, but I thought I'd check out the one on my hard disk from my old install I was about to format with this new one until it didn't work. I noticed it said it was generated by nvidia-xconfig so I tried running that.

It said it wasn't installed, which makes sense, it comes with the restricted drivers you install after you install Ubuntu. But it did list where I could get it from using apt-get. So I installed the latest nvidia driver package with apt-get and it installed itself. Then I realised, oh bugger, it integrates with a kernal module, and probably would need a restart to work. I decided I'd try anyway, I ran the nvidia-xconfig program and it generated an xorg.conf file that it placed in the right folder. I couldn't restart X though or anything, it just kept saying out of range. So I tried using "startx" in the terminal. It just kept telling me that X was already running.

For my last ditch effort, I just killed the Xorg process, and then decided to run startx again. Haha, sure enough it worked, and the graphical display finally came up, and seems to be working 100%. Compiz already enabled too.

Clearly not the best way to make it work, and it seemed pretty hackish. But it works, so yay. I hope this carries over and continues working when I install it to the hard disk.

Although, I'm just thinking out loud here, the people in charge might want to look into making the Live CD more compatible like it used to be. Not being able to display seemed like a pretty big downside.

Liking the new colour scheme and icon set by the way. :)

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-11-02
sure wish compiz was off by default...

sigh

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308317](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308317)

.

---

### Post by Bodmin on 2009-11-16
How did you kill the Xorg process?

---

