---
title: "11.04 Firewall"
date: 2011-05-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-05
Installed the firewall Firestarter. How do I know it is not only working but working properly?

Are there more advanced firewalls available? 

Being new to Linux what about Anti-Virus programs?

Thanks for the great forum!

gumshoe

---

### Post by sandyd on 2011-05-05
> **gumshoegrant said:**
> Installed the firewall Firestarter. How do I know it is not only working but working properly?

Are there more advanced firewalls available? 

Being new to Linux what about Anti-Virus programs?

Thanks for the great forum!

gumshoe
a) You don't need firestarter.
The firewall is enabled by default.
All ports are closed by default, unless an application decides to open one.

b) [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812)

c) This will sometimes cause more trouble than its worth. Whenever you have a program that needs a listening port (i.e. apache2), you will need to open a port manually.

This will allow established connections (i.e. you connect to a server, and the server will be allowed to connect back to you through the established session. Meaning that you have to establish the connection).
```

sudo iptables -A INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
sudo iptables -A INPUT -s localhost -j ACCEPT

```

To open ports/allow connections to the port (you only need to do this for incomming connections)
```

sudo iptables -A INPUT -dport
```

Then, to finalize the configuration
```

sudo iptables -A INPUT -j DROP
```

---

### Post by Xenophanes on 2011-05-05
> **sandyd said:**
> a) You don't need firestarter.
The firewall is enabled by default.
All ports are closed by default, unless an application decides to open one.

b) [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812)

c) This will sometimes cause more trouble than its worth. Whenever you have a program that needs a listening port (i.e. apache2), you will need to open a port manually.

This will allow established connections (i.e. you connect to a server, and the server will be allowed to connect back to you through the established session. Meaning that you have to establish the connection).
```

sudo iptables -A INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
sudo iptables -A INPUT -s localhost -j ACCEPT

```To open ports/allow connections to the port (you only need to do this for incomming connections)
```

sudo iptables -A INPUT -dport
```Then, to finalize the configuration
```

sudo iptables -A INPUT -j DROP
```

Thanks I had the same question! ):P
That's very nice to know.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2011-05-05
```
sudo apt-get install gufw
```

ufw or gufw is a way to control the firewall. True- Ubuntu has a 'no open ports' policy by default, but the firewall is not on by default.

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-05-05
If you're half-way comfortable with using the command line, I find that ufw works quite well and is easy to use (as easy as the command line is, I guess). Have a look at:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UFW](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UFW)

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-05-06
> **gumshoegrant said:**
> Installed the firewall Firestarter. How do I know it is not only working but working properly?

A lot of people will tell you to use Shields Up ([http://www.grc.com/x/ne.dll?bh0bkyd2](http://www.grc.com/x/ne.dll?bh0bkyd2)), but I'll be a bit more thorough.

Install a web server on your system, such as Apache. Turn off the firewall and run the Shields Up scan. If it shows all ports closed or stealthed, then you're already behind a firewall - usually in your broadband modem - and you don't need an additional firewall.

If it shows Port 80 open, then turn on the firewall and run the scan again. If it now shows Port 80 closed or stealthed, then the firewall is working properly.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-06
So is Firestarter the default firewall?
Prior to making this post I installed Firestarter and since have deleted it.
Am I protected by another?

thanks

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-05-06
UFW and Firestarter are GUI front ends for the default firewall and removing them does not remove the firewall .

Some users prefer a GUI over the command line to set rules and exceptions for the fire wall . I happen to use UFW , but it is up to the user.

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-05-06
iptables ([http://www.netfilter.org/](http://www.netfilter.org/)) provides the firewalling functions. Firestarter is a gui front-end to iptables. Open up a command prompt (terminal) and type in:
```
 sudo ufw status 
```
.....enter your password when prompted and it should show you the current status of your firewall.

Or, re-install firestarter (or install gufw) to get a grpahical front-end to managing iptables (the firewall).

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-05-06
> **gumshoegrant said:**
> So is Firestarter the default firewall?


Firestarter is an old tool for configuring the firewall. It's no longer maintained, and personally i'd suggest using a more current tool like GUFW if you need to mess about with your firewall.

It's pretty unlikely that you need to install anything. The default configuration has no services listening on any ports, so turning on a firewall won't actually improve your security. You only need to worry about this if you install a server package such as OpenSSH, SAMBA or Apache. Of course, it won't do any harm to tighten up your firewall rules, but it's also not likely to make you any safer.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-06
Thanks to All for the helpful advise.

gumshoegrant

---

### Post by mikeh on 2011-05-22
> **Paqman said:**
> Firestarter is an old tool for configuring the firewall. It's no longer maintained, and personally i'd suggest using a more current tool like GUFW if you need to mess about with your firewall.


Gufw looks a bit simple. No NAT (ICS) is there? 
And a manual iptables script would seem error-prone. 
My server has a 3G ppp connection, which is to be shared by the LAN.
Is there a better solution than firestarter now?

---

