---
title: "Qt4"
date: 2008-12-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by scorey1609 on 2008-12-25
Hey y'all,

I'm trying to install the newest version of Qt4 (which so far has consisted of 4.4.3) because I can only get as new as 4.4.0 on Hardy repositories and Stellarium is requiring at least 4.4.1.

I've tried to install it manually and it works, but I have to install several packages and that would take days, and I don't want to upgrade to Intrepid because I use and nVidia card and Intrepid wont let me use it.

So, question, is there a repository for newer versions of QT that I can add to the list?  I've searched google and can find nothing except people suggesting upgrading to Intrepid.

Thanks

---

### Post by pdtpatrick on 2008-12-25
run this and see what you get.. sudo apt-cache search qt4  ... and search the results and see what version is listed.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-12-25
Intrepid works very well with nvidia video adapters, usually when people have problems getting thier graphics adapters to work properly they have upgraded completely.

The proper way to upgrade is to diable any outside repositories, then fully upgrade your version before upgrading to Intrepid.

Jim

---

### Post by igknighted on 2008-12-25
If you don't want to upgrade everything, you could always change your repo's to intrepid, then update just the qt4 packages, then change the repo's back.

---

### Post by scorey1609 on 2008-12-25
cariboo907,

what do you mean by updating "fully upgrade your version"?  Just make sure everything in Hardy is upgraded, then tell upgrade to Intrepid via synaptic updates?

I upgraded with Synaptic last time and ran into a huge nVidia issue that many other people were having too.  It was so bad I had to whipe out everything and reinstall Hardy.  I tried several fixes that people were getting to work and nothing worked.  I could only run Intrepid with the generic video drivers and that's just plain boring! :)

Thanks for your help so far, guys (or gals).

___

If people are telling me I can upgrade without video card issues, I'll try it again and hope for the best.  I'd rather being running Intrepid anyways.

---

