---
title: "10.10 Download problems"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Telefonhonda on 2010-10-12
Hi everyone,

I installed Ubuntu 10.10 netbook remix on my Asus 1201N. I have to say it runs great, but I'm having a problem with my wireless connection that I can't solve on my own. 

It's a bit hard to explain, but let me give you an example: when I first boot up the computer, everything works fine. I can browse the internet with no problems. But then, I open a youtube video. The first 30-50 seconds play normally, but then it just stops buffering. After that I can't open any website, firefox just gives me a connection timed out error. The network status shows that I'm still connected. I have to reboot or wait quite a while to get the internet working again.

I've tested downloading files, but the download status just says starting... and the download won't start. I tried testing my download speed using speedtest.com, and it briefly shows a ~10mbps download speed. Then it quickly drops down to around 2mbps, and from there it just keeps going down all the way to 0.

I'm pretty sure it isn't a hardware problem. I have used windows 7 on the same netbook for half a year now and never had problems with the wireless connection. I'm using a Thomson TG789VN router.

Any help would be appreciated. This issue is currently the only thing that's keeping me from switching to ubuntu completely. Please try to keep your replies easily understandable, because I'm almost a total linux newbie.

---

