---
title: "8.04 vs 8.10"
date: 2008-11-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dgerwin11 on 2008-11-14
Hi,

What are the advantages of upgrading to 8.10?  I use the computer mainly for email, spreadsheets, and general surfing.  No music downloads or photo storing or gaming.  Would it be worth the effort?  Most of what I do is in the "cloud" with gmail and Google Docs.

Also, I have an older computer with XP, that I keep as a back up.  Would Xubuntu be a better choice to use on the older machine?  Not sure how much space is available.

---

### Post by ibizatunes on 2008-11-14
xbuntu runs on 128mb min - recommended 192mb
ubuntu runs on 384 min  recommended 512mb

ubuntu new features are these 
[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810)

I would say if 8.04 works then stick with that as it is a LTS version
8.10 is better but upgrading can break your PC, 
I have upgraded lots of machine before i normally wait a few months to make sure that all major bugs are fixed

what are the specs of your machine?

---

### Post by Sirron on 2008-11-14
8.04 is an "LTS" release - that's Long Term Support, meaning security fixes and patches will be released until 2011, longer than with regular releases like 8.10.

8.04 was criticized by some as being unadventurous as it did not contain many cutting edge developments; others say this  makes it more suitable for an LTS release as it's based on 'proven' technology.

One of the defining features of 8.10 is the inclusion of a new version of the Network Manager, which supports connections to mobile internet services.

In your situation, you would almost certainly benefit from the inclusion of Adobe Flash 10 in the official repositories, but as it can be installed in 8.04 with general ease, I wouldn't recommend you upgrade for that alone.

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2008-11-14
If your machine works fine as is, it's probably not worth the upgrade.  I still have 8.04 on my machine.  I enabled the backports repository to get some of the latest and greatest software.

If you have trouble with Wifi, Flash, or Java, there have been updates to 8.10 that may fix these issues.  If you don't need these fixes, and don't have the urge to be on the cutting edge, I wouldn't upgrade.

---

### Post by 24/7 on 2009-02-17
When you say "cutting edge" software what do you mean exactly? Better programs?

---

### Post by matthew.ball on 2009-02-17
Latest release.

I used 8.04 initially, and only got to 8.10 through upgrading (which recommended I update everything), after updating everything, I don't think I checked to see if my problems were resolved, unfortunately as I have noticed 8.10 while fixing every issue I initially had, has created another in my battery not being detected (though it was on 8.04).

---

### Post by Doug11 on 2009-02-17
> **dgerwin11 said:**
> Hi,

What are the advantages of upgrading to 8.10?  I use the computer mainly for email, spreadsheets, and general surfing.  No music downloads or photo storing or gaming.  Would it be worth the effort?  Most of what I do is in the "cloud" with gmail and Google Docs.

Also, I have an older computer with XP, that I keep as a back up.  Would Xubuntu be a better choice to use on the older machine?  Not sure how much space is available.
I find it's more of a personal preference. I actually went backwards,,I went from 8.1 back to 8.04 just for the simple fact that more I my hardware was supported such as my webcam and stuff. But if you did a small search,,you will find that poeple are having issues with each version.

---

### Post by sdennie on 2009-02-17
I agree that it is personal preference.  For many people 8.04 is rock solid, has all the features they need and is supported for 2 more years so, there is no real incentive to upgrade.  This is especially true because most of the interesting package upgrades (at least in my case) are very easy to install by hand (Network Manager in particular is a very nice upgrade and trivial to install from PPA).

Really, it comes down to what you want to use your machine for.  If you just want to turn it on, get some work done and then turn it off and Hardy does this for you then, no, I wouldn't upgrade.  If your machine has driver problems or you need newer versions of software and it's hard/impossible to get them for Hardy then, yes, I would upgrade.

I would suggest downloading the 8.10 installer and starting it as a live CD.  Play around with it for a while and you can decide for yourself whether or not upgrading is the right thing for you.

---

### Post by kaibob on 2009-02-17
At least initially, quite a few people with computers with older video cards had trouble after upgrading from 8.04 to 8.10. Perhaps this has been fixed, but I would recommend that you do a forum search on this before upgrading.

---

