---
title: "GParted unallocated can't mount"
date: 2022-07-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by billy3xs on 2022-07-28
I booted with a USB then resized dev sda5  and got unallocted.
Then resized sda3 and got another unallocated outside of sda3
Then I rebooted to my Ubuntu and tried to mount unallocated, but nothing is selectable in menu.

I want to install windows in that 50 GiB area. For a dual boot selection. 
Sometimes I have to use windows!  :P

thanks for your help!

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2022-07-28
If it's unallocated, it's not part of a partition. If it's not part of a partition, there's no filesystem (technically, you can make a filesystem directly on the drive, but that would be really weird). If there's no filesystem, it cannot be mounted.

You situation is a bit peculiar. It looks like there're two fat32 partitions, one of which is mounted at /boot/efi. It appears to be empty though, so this is a legacy (not UEFI) system. You also use MBR (not GPT) partitioning, which must be used in combination with a legacy system. Windows can only be installed in legacy mode on MBR drives and in UEFI mode on GPT drives. You can install Windows in legacy mode, but for dual booting Ubuntu with Windows 8 and higher, this really isn't recommended. On your MBR partitioned hard drive, you have a limit of 4 primary partitions. You can bypass that limit by using logical partitions (as you do), but Windows cannot be installed in a logical partition.

I suggest you switch over to UEFI mode and use GPT partitioning. It may be possible to convert the Ubuntu system in place. I never tried. Make backups anyway. Then try to use the Windows installer to install Windows in the unallocated space. Don't be surprised if the Windows installer decides to wipe your Ubuntu partitions. So make backups.

The most reliable way to install Windows 8+ and Ubuntu in dual boot on a single drive, is to switch to UEFI mode, then install Windows first and let it partition the harddrive in whatever way it seems fit. Then use Windows tools to make unallocated space on the harddrive and reboot Windows to let it run its filesystem checks. Switch off Windows Fast Startup, or the Linux bootloader will not be able to detect and boot Windows, but this can be circumvented via the UEFI menu (that's why you should use UEFI mode). Then boot from the Ubuntu live disk and install Ubuntu in the unallocated space.

---

### Post by billy3xs on 2022-07-28
Thank you!
This is a new ubuntu install that took every thing out. Maybe the different systems, UEFI, are generated by the age of my laptop, details in my sig.
I'll have to learn what those mean also! -Switch to UEFI mode...
Windows would not upgrade this PC, it said my PC is not worthy!  Maybe Win 8 would boot.
I'll enter this reply, but then, I'm guessing, I'll get into the BIOS and switch to UEFI somewhere.

---

### Post by billy3xs on 2022-07-28
Well GParted looks cleaner now, but I don't think that's what you meant to do.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2022-07-28
It looks like you did a clean install of Ubuntu in legacy mode on a MBR drive. Now you certainly have nothing to lose from that hard drive, so just go ahead with a clean install in UEFI mode of first Windows, then Ubuntu. Go into the BIOS/UEFI settings (really UEFI, but sometimes still labelled as BIOS) and change mode to UEFI, not something like BIOS or legacy or compatibility. Make sure your Ubuntu live disk works. Some hardware may require some tweaking. If it needs tweaking, tell us some more details about your hardware. Chances are that somebody on the forum knows the tricks to make it work with Ubuntu. Then install Windows, create unallocated space on the drive and install Ubuntu, as I wrote in my previous post. It should work on most hardware less than 12 years old.

BTW, in my previous post I mentioned backups twice. I assume you made backups, right? Unless you had already made them before (as you should). If not, your files are gone now.

If you only need Windows for some light applications and your computer is sufficiently powerful, you could also consider installing Windows in a virtual machine, instead of dual booting. I never tried it, as I don't need Windows, but we've many people on the forum who have experience with that.

---

### Post by yancek on 2022-07-28
You could install windows 10 on that Legacy machine but with 16GB RAM, it certainly should be able to install UEFI/GPT which is a better option

To install windows in legacy mode, you would first have to unmount sda3 and sda2 and then shrink sda3 to 50GB and sda2 to a little over 50GB,  THis would give you 50GB of unallocated space on which to install windows.  Create another partition with an ntfs filesystem for windows and make sure it is a Primary partition.  Use the Custom install option in windows which comes right after the EULA page and install to the  newly created ntfs primary partition.  This will overwrite Grub so you will need your Ubuntu USB to install Grub to the MBR.  If you're not familiar with the process, I think it would be better to convert to GPT and do a UEFI install.  Make sure you boot the Ubuntu USB in EFI mode.i

---

### Post by billy3xs on 2022-07-29
Thank you Impavidus and yancuk,

Yes this PC was toast, covered in another post. It's also too old for VM, which would be fun to learn.
But, interesting history of BIOS > EFI > UEFI. So my PC is old, which isn't a surprise because I'm really old!  LOL

So in the picture below it shows UEFI disabled and I can't select it with the down arrow.
Selecting OS brought up a Windows 8 selection. 
Doing all this stuff, even the CMD line, is fun, until it's not.  :P

I'm guessing I select Win 8 OS and reboot with a Win 8 install USB. 
And hopefull I can understand how to leave room, 55 GB, for Ubuntu.
[COLOR=#ff0000]Edit: Well MS sez Win 8 is no longer available for downloading.
[/COLOR]Oh, maybe Win 8 is already lurking in there...
 
thanks from France

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]BIOS Aptio Setup Utility - 2012 American Megatrends Ver 2.15.1226[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Intel® Core&#8482;    i5-3210M    CPU @ 2.50GHz × 4 [/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Intel® Ivybridge Mobile   16 GiB ram, 120 GB HD, 64-bit[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Ubuntu 20.04 LTS / Win 8  ( Someday LOL )[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]
[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by yancek on 2022-07-29
What happens when you select and save the change to boot windows 8 in the BIOS?  Your computer is UEFI capable or you would not have that entry in the BIOS.  If you cannot select to enable UEFI in the BIOS the computer may be damaged, I don't know but you should still be able to install in Legacy mode, both Ubuntu and windows.

> And hopefull I can understand how to leave room, 55 GB, for Ubuntu. 

I gave a brief description in my post above but the link below is to the GParted Manual which is considerably more detailed.

[https://gparted.org/display-doc.php%3Fname%3Dhelp-manual](https://gparted.org/display-doc.php%3Fname%3Dhelp-manual)

---

### Post by billy3xs on 2022-07-29
Thank you, yes I saw your instructions thanks. Take a look at what I did.
I couldn't get a primary without getting that little 1 gig unallocated one.
Oh and the windows 8 OS booted.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2022-07-29
For dual booting Windows 8 and Ubuntu, UEFI mode is recommended, but if you can't, legacy mode should work too. It's just more fragile when Windows installs upgrades, so keep an Ubuntu live disk and a Windows repair disk at hand. It looks like Windows 8 is getting close to end of life (January 2023) and I wouldn't run it after that.

What's your status now? Windows 8 installed and booting, Ubuntu installed and booting? Or not yet?

---

### Post by billy3xs on 2022-07-30
Thankyou, well so far the BIOS shows Windows 8.
[IMG]https://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=290783&stc=1[/IMG]

And I can't to install the Windows 7 download tool without .NET Framework V2.0. And my PC sez framework is already installed.
I tried loading V 2 from Filehippo, but got a warning about the file. It scared me away as this is a new PC i'm on.
[B][B][B].NET Framework Version 2.0

[/B][/B][/B][IMG]https://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=290784&stc=1[/IMG]
So if this looks good, i'll keep trying for the install tool.

---

### Post by yancek on 2022-07-30
Windows 7 has not been supported for some time so I would not install it, especially if you are going to use windows online.  Very insecxure.  The tool to download a windows iso is different if you are using windows rather than Linus so I'm not sure that will work.

If sda3 is a primary partition as it appears to be in the GParted image, you should be able to install windows to that partition.  If you have a windows 10/11 install iso and do install windows, remember it will overwrite the Grub MBR code and you will need to reinstall Grub2 from the Ubuntu USB.

---

### Post by billy3xs on 2022-07-30
Thank you, I replied but I got kicked out of the forum or timed out.
Anyway no not trying for win 7, it's just a thing with the install tool.

---

### Post by billy3xs on 2022-07-31
Well all the links I try for the download tool seem to be disabled. 
I even installed NET Framework 2.0

WooHoo I was able to create the usb with the CMDL thanks to FossBytes for Win 8.
However it asked for the license key, which I thought would be in the laptop...although it would be for Win 7.
It said enter the key or a msg would appear that the key was found.

I think this is about it for this laptop, next stop the grocery store for new laptop,
no really, they have laptops at E. Leclerc FR.

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2022-07-31
FWIW If you can install Win7 you can still upgrade to W10, assuming it will work on your hardware.

---

