---
title: "9.10 lock up + newbie"
date: 2009-12-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by fatboyandy on 2009-12-24
Hello everyone

I decided to finally try ubuntu and having tried windows installer, graphic installer and text installer like 15 times now im losing patience.  The text installer is about the best and fnishes the installation.

After a few minutes of being on the desktop the machine locks up, often just after I've manually connected to the wireless connection.  Sometimes on reboot the bios fails and keeps trying to find a floppy drive that doesnt exist, mostly i have to switch off and reboot.

Please can anyone help what could possible cause a lock up after only a few minutes?  Unfortunately i no nothing about linux, im a microsoft qualified technician but if i get linux working i will only use it and dump microsft.  Im losing patience now but want it working, i beg you please help.

ps im old enough to know about dos so I dont mind following commands, but bear in mind i have never ever used LINUX.

thanks so much and merry xmas.

ps its a pci installed netgear wifi adapter, a amd dual core chip and nvidia gforce chipset and inbuilt sound and graphics.

---

### Post by halitech on 2009-12-24
I would suggest trying the obvious, pull the wifi card out and boot up and see if it still locks up. If it doesn't then it might be an issue with the modules being loaded for the card is conflicted with something else (or possibly trying to load 2 modules for the same card)

---

### Post by Zzl1xndd on 2009-12-24
> **halitech said:**
> I would suggest trying the obvious, pull the wifi card out and boot up and see if it still locks up. If it doesn't then it might be an issue with the modules being loaded for the card is conflicted with something else (or possibly trying to load 2 modules for the same card)

Seems halitech beat me too the punch.

That being said if it works you might want to check the logs as they might add some insight.

---

### Post by mikodo on 2009-12-24
Hello, and welcome to Ubuntu forums. 

Just want to suggest you stick with the questions in this forum. The people here are very friendly and really want to help. I as a complete computer noob, cannot offer help; other than testify to the wonderful help I have always received. Stick with it here, and you will have your answers found.

Ubuntu is a wonderful OS and will work exceptionally well for you, once you get the directions, to work out the problems you are temporarily experiencing.

Mike

PS: Once you have the solution(s); please post them here. People like me read the SOLVED threads.

Thanks.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2009-12-24
Based upon similar lockups on my computer in the past, I can make a couple of suggestions. If your machine is connecting to the internet successfully, the lockup may be due to Ubuntu fetching its update information automatically (auto-update does occur within the first few minutes after bootup). If this is the problem then you should just wait and see if the updating can complete its process, after which the computer will unlock and notify you that updates are available.

If auto-updating is not causing the lock-up then you should check your screensaver settings and either disable the screensaver or set it to "Blank Screen Only". If the screensaver is causing the lockup then it's probably because you haven't yet enabled the driver for your nVidia graphics chipset. You can enable that driver by going to the System Menu and clicking on the Hardware Drivers entry.

---

### Post by fatboyandy on 2010-01-25
Please help.  The computer still looks up, im getting mad this just worked for a mate first time with no problems.  I must have tried running the machine like 20 times and its getting tedious.

please help.

the machine still locks up with or without the wifi card.  I really could do with what to check, how i do this and how i fix it.  Please i am totally new and dont know ANY commands or anything.  I want to use linux.


please help me.

---

### Post by Ruben_u on 2010-01-25
Hello, being a newbie and ubuntu enthisiast Ive always been tempted to try ubuntu so i decided to install it with wubi. Everything works fine, Window 7 boots, ubuntu boots, but everytime i tried to plug in the AC charger when using ubuntu it locks up and i have to force the shutdown with the laptops power button. At first I thought it was the battery so i removed it and ran with only the AC but it still happened. Could any one shine some light on me?

laptop is a toshiba satelite A205-s7468 and main os is win 7 ultimate

---

### Post by hansheijmans on 2010-01-25
> **fatboyandy said:**
> 

Sometimes on reboot the bios fails and keeps trying to find a floppy drive that doesnt exist, mostly i have to switch off and reboot.



Try resetting your BIOS settings, either use factory settings or do a "hard" reset on your motherboard (see your MB's manual). Could be corrupted BIOS data.

---

### Post by fatboyandy on 2010-01-31
Thanks for the help so far.

Yes fiddling with bios worked. I am now using ubuntu etc but now my graphics are limited to 640x480.  Can u help?

I used and activated the nvidia ones from the hardware drivers tab.  The only options i have are 320x240 and 640x480 which is not good enough for web browsing. 

can anyone offer help again?

---

### Post by hansheijmans on 2010-01-31
Try the latest Nvidia drivers from [COLOR=Blue][http://www.nvidia.com/drivers](http://www.nvidia.com/drivers)[/COLOR].

---

