---
title: "13.04 - divide one dvd title (from handbrake) into more than 1 file"
date: 2013-06-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-24
So, I'm using Handbrake to convert my movies for a media center.  Right now I'm working on a collectors set of the entire Man From U.N.C.L.E.   Handbrake only finds 1 title, but after conversion it actually contains 3 episodes back to bac*k.   *I would like to split this file into the 3 actual episodes.  Is there some way with a post-processing tool I can edit the video file and break it apart into the 3 separate episodes?  I looked at OpenShot, but I can't tell if sound is handled automatically as well or not.

Thanks ;)

---

### Post by JohnAStebbins on 2013-06-24
Some series DVDs split the episodes by chapters.  So try using the chapter range settings in HandBrake to encode the ranges that apply to each episode.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-24
Thanks - I was able to do that with the 1st of 36 DVD's in Handbrake, but it took a lot of time to find the breaks.  I tried VLC hoping it would show the chapter number as things played, but I couldn't get them to show.

Does anyone know of another video player which does shows what chapter is playing?  I'd like to be able to fast-forward through things to find the breaks much much faster.

Thanks!

---

### Post by JohnAStebbins on 2013-06-25
In VLC, you can seek to chapters.  You can choose the chapter to seek to in the "Playback" menu.  There are also buttons that allow jumping forward >| and back |< one chapter So you should be able to jump to each chapter to see if there is an episode starting at the chapter.  mplayer will also let you seek to chapters using the '!' and '@' keys to go back and forward one chapter.  mplayer displays the chapter number as you seek chapters.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-25
Thanks everyone!  Got it all going fine now!

---

