---
title: "11.04 crashes while surfing"
date: 2011-05-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rUff3r on 2011-05-31
While I'm Surfing the web via Firefox it happens sometimes that the session just dies. Not the firefox session, but the whole login session. Every program gets killed and I have to log-in and start everything new.

In the .mozilla/Crash Reports/ Directory there is no crash. I don't know what happened. But since I also work on this Laptop I'd like to know what exactly happened. I'm not even sure if firefox has anything to do with it.

If I can help by posting log-files just ask for what you want to see :-)

Thanks a lot.

Philipp

---

### Post by jramshu on 2011-05-31
Need some machine specs, cpu, gpu, etc.

Open a terminal and type in:
```
top
```

Then open firefox and do what you were doing and see what the processes are that are running, and how much cpu is being used. 

I had a machine that was totally freezing up when ff was running flash. It could be something else though.

---

### Post by rUff3r on 2011-05-31
It's not that it freezes up. It just dies. I can't replicate the problem it just occurs sometimes.

Machine is a Dell Latitude E 6400 with a Core 2 Duo P8400, GPU is Intel integrated GMA 4500.

---

### Post by ryan! on 2011-05-31
> **rUff3r said:**
> It's not that it freezes up. It just dies. 

spontaneous software combustion? O.o

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2011-05-31
im not so sure its firefox giving you grief.  but you can try disabling your firefox addons and see if it helps.

---

### Post by rUff3r on 2011-05-31
It's actually quite rare that this happens. Usually once a day or so. 

Is there no possible way to look this up in the logfiles?

Thats in my syslog of the time:

> 
May 31 10:10:45 philipp-laptop gdm-simple-slave[3386]: WARNING: Unable to load file '/etc/gdm/custom.conf': Datei oder Verzeichnis nicht gefunden
May 31 10:10:45 philipp-laptop acpid: client 1144[0:0] has disconnected
May 31 10:10:45 philipp-laptop acpid: client connected from 3388[0:0]
May 31 10:10:45 philipp-laptop acpid: 1 client rule loaded


---

### Post by jerrrys on 2011-05-31
try this and see how your day goes.

open a terminal and enter

sudo apt-get purge acpid && sudo apt-get install acpid

---

### Post by rUff3r on 2011-05-31
Did that. Lets see if this happens again :) 

Thanks for now ;-)

---

### Post by 5149.5 on 2011-05-31
There are many reports of this and it is not limited to firefox. People have also reported this happening while browsing with chrome. It happened to me with nothing running other than terminal. 

This has been happening since 2009 and release 9.04. There are a few active threads on this and a lot of discussion can be found with google. Search for "ubuntu random logout".

---

### Post by 5149.5 on 2011-05-31
It just happened to me again. Here is the [link ]("http://goo.gl/tU46Y")to the bug on launchpad. Go post a comment there.

---

### Post by jaacko on 2011-05-31
I just wanted to point out that this is not exactly problem with Ubuntu. My old computer did this too, with Ubuntu, Arch Linux and Fedora. Just random logout while browsing the web, watching movies, playing games in wine, ....

I couldn't locate the problem. I tried using different window managers, different versions of everything but without success.

---

### Post by 5149.5 on 2011-05-31
> **jaacko said:**
> I just wanted to point out that this is not exactly problem with Ubuntu. My old computer did this too, with Ubuntu, Arch Linux and Fedora. Just random logout while browsing the web, watching movies, playing games in wine, ....

I couldn't locate the problem. I tried using different window managers, different versions of everything but without success.

So you're saying it's a problem with all linux distros? This machine dual boots Ubuntu and Windows 7  and I've never had a random logout in Windows. I would never do important work with an OS that might log me off at an inopportune time.

---

### Post by jaacko on 2011-06-01
> **5149.5 said:**
> So you're saying it's a problem with all linux distros? This machine dual boots Ubuntu and Windows 7  and I've never had a random logout in Windows. I would never do important work with an OS that might log me off at an inopportune time.

I'm not saying it's a problem with all distros, although I had the problem with all the distros I tried on that computer. It's probably a piece of hardware (or combination of hardware) that just isn't properly supported by the kernel or xorg or something... for example, I don't know.

Also Windows worked just fine on that machine.

---

