---
title: "9.1"
date: 2009-11-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by drakkoss on 2009-11-11
Has anyone beside myself noticed that Ubuntu runs a lot cooler than Windows?  I've installed Ubuntu on my laptop which was whining away like crazy under Windows but is just cooling it's heals under Ubuntu.
 

 The only thing I use Windows for these days is playing games like, well , WoW and Everquest.  I wish WOW would release a Linux version of their game. 



This is a very nice OS.  Let me give the developers … all of them … TWO THUMBS UP!!!!!!!!
 

 UBUNTU = The Future!!

---

### Post by Bunnybugs on 2009-11-11
Install Wine on your system ([http://www.winehq.org](http://www.winehq.org)), Wine is an windows programloader that allows you to play WoW, and other windows applications!

---

### Post by KhanTG on 2009-11-11
> **drakkoss said:**
> Has anyone beside myself noticed that Ubuntu runs a lot cooler than Windows?  I've installed Ubuntu on my laptop which was whining away like crazy under Windows but is just cooling it's heals under Ubuntu.
 

 The only thing I use Windows for these days is playing games like, well , WoW and Everquest.  I wish WOW would release a Linux version of their game. 



This is a very nice OS.  Let me give the developers … all of them … TWO THUMBS UP!!!!!!!!
 

 UBUNTU = The Future!!

Just about everyone that uses Linux, and belongs to the community, helps develop future iterations of the OS... whether you do it with code or just express your feelings and experiences..
  BTW- the "cooler running" sensation that you are getting is due to the fact that Linux (most distros) actually use the hardware efficiently, and
when software is "standing by", it really is just standing by (not using resources)..

Cheers!  and Welcome

---

