---
title: "Best thing to do when the system locks up?"
date: 2009-05-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by powel212 on 2009-05-04
Just had a system freeze. Totally my own fault. I have seldom had system locks so I have never checked to see what the keyboard command is to bring up some app to help me kill a process I have started in error and in so doing locked my system.

What is the best thing to do when you end up with a freeze, or other such trouble. 

CTRL+Backspace is no longer available and I am not sure it is the best thing to do anyway.

Thanks

Powel

---

### Post by Vonnick on 2009-05-04
Alt + Prnt Scrn + R, S, E, I, N, U, B will safely reboot your system. Hold Alt + Prnt Scrn then press each of the letters one by one. If it doesn't do anything, you have a total freeze and will need to hard kill it. :(

---

### Post by Didius Falco on 2009-05-04
Thanks for that, Vonnick! That's just been added to my Useful.Commands file.

---

### Post by powel212 on 2009-05-04
Thank you

How about a keyboard shortcut for launching "system monitor" and killing a process from there?

also, - R, S, E, I, N, U, B - is this an anagram? Any suggestions on how to memorize that key sequence?

Powel

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2009-05-04
> **Vonnick said:**
> Alt + Prnt Scrn + R, S, E, I, N, U, B will safely reboot your system. Hold Alt + Prnt Scrn then press each of the letters one by one. If it doesn't do anything, you have a total freeze and will need to hard kill it. :(
Actually, it is:
**Alt+PrintScreen + R, E, I, S, U, B**

As can be remembered through the following phrase:
**R**aising **E**lephants **I**s **S**o **U**tterly **B**oring

N is a new one I haven't come across a great deal, but looking at the output of the SysRq help, it looks like that it won't be very useful after the E and I keys. Since you've already killed all tasks, to then nice all tasks seems a bit defunct, as there will be no tasks running at that stage...

Regards
Iain

---

### Post by Vonnick on 2009-05-04
Ah, I'll have to remember that.

---

### Post by Wiebelhaus on 2009-05-04
```
sudo aptitude install dontzap
```

To reinstall the Crtl+AltBackspace functionality.

---

### Post by powel212 on 2009-05-04
Thanks for that. Raising elephants... It will certainly help me remember.

Is there somewhere I can find more info on this. I'd like to know more about the individual commands.

Alt + Prnt Scrn + R =
Alt + Prnt Scrn + S =
Alt + Prnt Scrn + E =
Alt + Prnt Scrn + I =
Alt + Prnt Scrn + N =
Alt + Prnt Scrn + B =

Thanks

P

---

### Post by oOarthurOo on 2009-05-04
Rebooting the system may not be required. Try Ctrl+Alt+F1 to switch to another terminal. If you can do that you can safely restart 'x', or try killing processes one at a time if it's a particular app causing a lock-up.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-05-04
Another way of being able to restart X (pre-Jaunty style) open /etc/X11/xorg.conf with your text editor. In Ubuntu:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

And add the lines I put in bold text here:

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

[B]Section "ServerFlags"
        Option          "DontZap" "false"
EndSection[/B] 

Then be sure and Save> File > Quit.

---

### Post by hansdown on 2009-05-04
Hi powel212.

You can download and print the ubuntu cheat sheet.

[http://www.scribd.com/doc/3002919/Ubuntu-Command-Reference-Cheat-Sheet](http://www.scribd.com/doc/3002919/Ubuntu-Command-Reference-Cheat-Sheet)

---

### Post by powel212 on 2009-05-05
Nice Thanks.

P

---

### Post by wizard10000 on 2009-05-05
> **tinivole said:**
> As can be remembered through the following phrase:
**R**aising **E**lephants **I**s **S**o **U**tterly **B**oring

Or, just think BUSIER backwards.

---

