---
title: "14.04 Hang on Shutdown-Driver Issue?"
date: 2014-07-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by safetyvault23 on 2014-07-09
I've been having some issues shutting down on Ubuntu 14.04-the system shuts down all processes successfully, but the power and screen remain powered on indefinitely. I checked through some of the other threads on this issue, and most seemed to point to a driver issue. I checked for additional drivers for my laptop, but none were found. I thought it might be the graphics card, and it's an integrated Intel HD 3000 GPU, party because I get the same problem using any forks of Debian or Ubuntu as well, (again maybe drivers?)

I tried running sudo shutdown -h now without much luck, I get the same freezing result. Strangely enough, restarting, either with sudo shutdown -r now or the GUI interface works perfectly.

Does anyone have any ideas on what I can try next? Thanks in advance!

Edit: Could it be related to [this bug]("https://lists.debian.org/debian-x/2012/01/msg00250.html")? If so, is there a workaround?

---

### Post by grier-devon on 2014-07-09
Hello,
No it is not that bug you posted in the end, that is for a way older version of the Linux Kernel and X and is a old bug. I don't think it could be the Intel HD 3000 driver as I have machines running with that GPU in 14.04 with no problems. It may be an issue with the power management by the sounds of things, have you seen this issue on older versions of Ubuntu? Is this an altered version of Ubuntu? Once installed has the problem always happened or was it after the installation of updates?

---

### Post by safetyvault23 on 2014-07-09
Hmm that would make sense. I haven't seen this bug before updating to 14.04, and am getting it even before installing updates.

---

