---
title: "10.10 accidentally deleted program from launcher menu"
date: 2012-05-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bostoncab on 2012-05-25
I installed HTTrack but I acceidentally deleted it from the application launcher menu. I can see that it is still installed. How do I start it and or re add it to the application launcher?

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2012-05-25
Hit the win key or click on the top button on the launcher, then type HTTrack in the Dash this will bring up the icon to launch the program, launch the program,  then in the launcher panel right click the HTTrack icon, select keep in launcher.

Edit:  Sorry I just noticed on your other thread that you are running 10.10 My Bad... do what wilee-nilee says.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-05-25
> **bostoncab said:**
> I installed HTTrack but I acceidentally deleted it from the application launcher menu. I can see that it is still installed. How do I start it and or re add it to the application launcher?

If you are actually running 10.10 you right click the menu and can add a link to it back, been awhile so good luck you can do it.

The app will be in /usr/bin most likely when you get to the command part so browse there.

10.10 is also end of life if you did not know.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades[/URL")

---

### Post by bostoncab on 2012-05-26
> **wilee-nilee said:**
> If you are actually running 10.10 you right click the menu and can add a link to it back, been awhile so good luck you can do it.

The app will be in /usr/bin most likely when you get to the command part so browse there.

10.10 is also end of life if you did not know.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades[/URL")

I upgraded but Ubuntu told me I dont have the hardware to run unity (which I understand may not be a bad ting) I still cant jumpstart this program. 

I am using latest distro classic.

---

