---
title: "how do i start programs with a seperate x-server..?"
date: 2009-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by hopelessone on 2009-05-11
Hi,

I just configured the graphics card via s-video to display on tv with a separate x-server... it looks great on the TV... So how can i load a program called xbmc onto this "Separate x-server"?

Here is my x-org config:

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Sun Feb  1 20:25:37 UTC 2009

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" Relative "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "TV-0"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "TVDACLoadDetect" "TRUE"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
# Removed Option "TwinView" "1"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: 1920x1080 +800+0, TV: 800x600 +0+0; CRT: 1680x1050 +0+0, TV: 1024x768 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; CRT: 1680x1050 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "TV: 1024x768 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


```

---

### Post by hopelessone on 2009-05-11
i can see it on the TV i cant load any programs on the TV...my computer monitor works great...how do you switch to this TV? and use it?

Pleeeeeeeeeeeeeeasseee help..

---

### Post by hopelessone on 2009-05-11
i'm googling like mad all sorts of things...

"how to 2 separate x=servers"
"how to 2 displays Linux"
"how to use dual monitors"
"how to use 2 separate x-servers"

I can't find out how to use the x-server on the TV !!!!!!!!(i can see it but can't do anything)

I tried ctrl + alt + f1 all the way to 12 and NO LUCK!

Please someone.....anyone.......... :confused:

i want to use this:

> Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection


---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-05-11
in terminal: gksu nvdia-settings

set up the second screen using that. From the Xorg.conf you provided I don't see anything pertaining to a separate session.

---

### Post by hopelessone on 2009-05-11
here is a photo of my nvdia set up...it does say seperate x-server...and the TV has some icons...my computer has no icons...how can i display movies on the TV?

---

### Post by SentientFluid on 2009-05-11
What options are their other than "Separate X Server"?  I haven't done it in a long time, but I seem to remember using Twinview, not a seprate x server.

---

### Post by hopelessone on 2009-05-11
i tried twinview but it displays 1/4 of the monitor size to the TV cutting movies...unless i resize it...pics provided...the first is my desktop on the computer the second pic is what i get on the Tv...

back tot the seperate x-server:

> DISPLAY=:0.1 xbmc works but i wanna use the mouse and see it on my computer then log out and use my computer....how can you log into DISPLAY=:0.1? use the keyboard and stuff...

Anyways all im tryin to do is get s-video working so i can watch movies from my pc to the TV...

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-05-11
seems to be some sort of bug lately where you can't open an app on the second screen.

only way i have found to get around it is to press alt+f2 on the second screen and type the name of the player (vlc, smplayer, xine, etc...) into the space and click "run"... or open a terminal on the second screen and start the program from there.  so for instance, if your using vlc to play the movie...open a terminal on the second screen and type:

```
vlc
```vlc should open on the tv



if you cannot get to a terminal on that screen, try installing "nautilus-open-terminal"...that will give you the ability to right-click on the secondary screen's desktop (or anywhere in nautilus) and choose "open in terminal" from the context menu. 

to install it....open a terminal on the main screen and run this command:

     ```
sudo apt-get install nautilus-open-terminal 
```after it installs, log-out and back in again. when you get back to the desktops, you should be able to right-click on screen 2, choose "open in terminal" and open the app from there...it should then open on screen 2.

hope that helps.

---

### Post by hopelessone on 2009-05-11
how do i get to this: "on the second screen"?

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-05-11
> **hopelessone said:**
> how do i get to this: "on the second screen"?

just move the mouse onto the tv's screen and click....then press alt+f2

---

### Post by mancimailman on 2009-05-11
Just disable your computer monitor, then enable your TV (through nvidia settings) and the restart the xsever, ( but make sure you save in nvidia settings) You might have to run nvidia settings with more privelages, I just type in "gksudo nvidia-settings" in terminal, (without "quotation marks")

So you click on your monitor screen, configure, disable, then the other screen, configure, choose seperate screen, apply what is possible, save, (if you cant save run in sudo) the restart x-server ( alt+ctrl, backspace)

---

### Post by hopelessone on 2009-05-11
"just move the mouse onto the tv's screen and click....then press alt+f2"

Where is this "tv's screen" location on my computer? <- thats what i don't get i can't find it...

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-05-11
sorry, i seem to be making this waaay more complicated then it has to be....

you *are* able to see your computers desktop/wallpaper on the tv....correct?

if yes,  then just move your mouse/cursor over onto the tv,  click once on any blank space....then press the alt+f2 keys

that should bring up a run dialog box on the tv...type the name of the player you want to use into the space and click "run"

that should start the player on the tv

hope that makes some sense

---

### Post by hopelessone on 2009-05-12
> you are able to see your computers desktop/wallpaper on the tv....correct?

YES

> then just move your mouse/cursor over onto the tv

HOW DO YOU DO THAT?

That's what i don't understand?

None of the stuff thats displayed on my monitor is on the TV with no icons no mouse can be seen...just a new instance of a desktop i think?

How can i access this screen?

Thanks

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-05-12
> **hopelessone said:**
> YES



HOW DO YOU DO THAT?

That's what i don't understand?

None of the stuff thats displayed on my monitor is on the TV with no icons no mouse can be seen...just a new instance of a desktop i think?

How can i access this screen?

Thanks

i see....so you have the desktop on the tv,  but you cannot access it with your mouse?

on my setup,  i am able to slide the cursor over to the right edge of my monitor and then it continues over onto the left side of tv's screen.  just like it was a continuation of my monitor,  but with 2 separate desktops instead of one big, long one.

i have no idea why yours would not work the same.  

you need to have root access to nvidia-settings when you setup the "separate x-screen" in order for it to work correctly after you logout or restart.  did you do that or did you just make the changes to the normal user's nvidia-settings?

try it again just to make sure you have it right...open a terminal and type the following into it:

```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```type your password when prompted then press enter.

when the nvidia-settings box comes up... click on "x server display configuration",  then configure your monitor and tv for separate x screens.  when your done...click on "apply" (if you see a warning about not being able to make all the changes...click "apply what is possible").  then click on "save to x-configuration file".

after that....restart the computer and see if its working.

good luck.

---

### Post by hopelessone on 2009-05-12
Ahhhhhh....

many thanks...now i get it...

OK so i can load stuff into it OK now...

But on the maximise it seems to shave off about 1-2cm all way round it's missing...is there anyway to reduce the size a little? on the 2nd screen TV

Thanks...

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-05-13
try changing the resolution of the tv using "gksudo nvidia-settings"

---

### Post by spinoza666 on 2009-11-20
Fooman, you are a gem! You're simple solution of Alt+F2 saved the day!

This was driving me nuts. For some reason Firefox works in both screens by default, while no other application will. The others just work on the main computer screen. No matter if I specify in the terminal what screen to open the app in and so on.

Thanx:)

Fooman for president!

---

