---
title: "10.04 won't boot on a sony vaio"
date: 2010-11-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Dermot Doyle on 2010-11-27
Hi All,
I have marked my original thread (getting rid of windows) as solved because the title has nothing to do with the problem now. I have finally managed to install 10.04 onto a Sony Vaio off an alternative CD - or so the installation disc told me when it had finished. 

The ordinary CD I used to install 10.04 on the Dell Inspiron I am writing this on now wouldn't work in the Vaio so someone suggested the alternative CD. I tried this and it seemed to install, but now the Sony won't boot up at all. I get the blank screen and cursor top left followed by a flash of the 'Ubuntu' with red dots below and then nothing.

I have checked that it is booting to the hard drive and I can get into the GRUB menu and tried various edits adding/overwriting 'quiet splash' with 'nomodeset' as suggested in some threads. If I do this I get a load of stuff scrolling down, too fast for me to see what it says, finishing with 'Done' then...nothing.

Has anyone any idea what I can do now?

---

### Post by msandoy on 2010-11-27
Try again with the ubuntu desktop cd. At the boot menu, choose language, then press F6 and choose acpi=off. try to boot from the cd.
Report back if it works. This is often a problem on laptops.

---

### Post by nm_geo on 2010-11-27
This link might help

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

Can you still boot from the LiveCD?

---

### Post by Dermot Doyle on 2010-11-28
Hi msandoy,
I tried what you suggested twice, once to install and once to simply run without installing, neither worked (when I pressed f6, acpi=off was already highlighted so I pressed return and an asterisk appeared to the left of it so I assume I selected it). I got the same screen with 'Ubuntu' and the chasing red lights underneath for about 60 seconds, then they all went red, then it flickered out and I got nothing.
nm-geo, thanks for the link, but I'm not sure I'm computerate enough to understand it all and besides I never get as far as the screen shown in the link. I suspect my problem comes before any of that has any relevence, but I could well be wrong.
Any other suggestions gratefully accepted.

---

### Post by Dermot Doyle on 2010-11-28
Hi All,
As an update I found the solution on this link:

[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/)

I have a 2004 sony vaio and 'i915.modeset=1' worked for me. 
Now I have to make it boot to this every time and I don't fully understand the instructions. I have to change one of the lines in the /etc/default/grub file and I don't know where to find it. Can anyone tell me where to look?
Cheers

---

### Post by Dermot Doyle on 2010-11-28
Me again, found what I wanted here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1603515](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1603515)

Hope this is of some use to anyone with an older Vaio

---

