---
title: "12.04 loss of video signal on boot"
date: 2013-07-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2013-07-13
OK, this is officially driving me nuts!

Scenario:
[LIST]
[*]Ubuntu 12.04
[*]No video after purple screen - know it' some type of driver problem
[*]Zbox with integrated Intel graphics
[*]Edd=on seems to be the only boot option that let's me get beyond purple screen, but it says running in low graphics mode and I never get a desktop.  Tried all the other options I could think of - even nomodeset or i915.mode set=1 (or 0) don't help.
[/LIST]

While yes I can install 12.10 or 13.04, I'm having another problem which requires the old power management options that for some reason they decided to omit in 13.04.  I was told they are there in 12.04.

Note that I've also tried the alternate CD and get the same thing.

After all this time - I've met an Ubuntu I can't get video from and another with needed options apparently stripped away??

I have been at this for more than 15 hours to no avail.  I've tried everything I could find in the forum and via the net - nothing helps.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-07-13
Not as if anyone didn't know this already, but you can officially tattoo that "L" for loser on my forehead now.

I need to be sure the PC never went to standby and that the screen never blanked.  As it turns out, it appears I can do this under 12.10 - just a little awkwardly.  The first option is in the power options.  The 2nd option, which to me is a power option also, is neatly put into the "Brightness and Lock" setting.  Hummm..... 2 power options, reduce britghtness to save power and blank the screen after "x" are under "Brightness and Lock"????????

Anyway, I'll be able to use 13.04, but I DO still want an answer on thie 13.04 question.

---

