---
title: "Touch Tablet PC"
date: 2008-06-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Alasta on 2008-06-21
Hello everyone , I am a returning Ubuntu user .

I have got hold of a Toshiba Satelite R10 101 laptop which i have installed Ubuntu Hardy Heron on and so far , its all good .I have working wifi , plugged and played printers at home and at work. 

this pc however shipped with xp touch tablet and I wonder if there is any way to get the touch screen to work ?


regards

Sorry , tag should read Ubuntu , not kubuntu :)

ALastair

---

### Post by deathvalleyjoker on 2008-07-02
I am completly new to ubuntu also but give this a try as i have seen it else where in the forums. 

type in the terminal: 
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

copy and past that here. what i am looking for is in there should be some like that looks like:

# Uncomment if you are using a tablet pc

i am curiose how this works bc my firend who has the same laptop wants to try ubuntu after i showed him it.

---

### Post by Alasta on 2008-07-04
I have amost certainly done this wrong :)

alastair@LaburnumTwo:~$ gedit/etc/x11/xorg.conf
bash: gedit/etc/x11/xorg.conf: No such file or directory
alastair@LaburnumTwo:~$ 


as ever any help is much appreciated.


alastair fulcher

---

### Post by csc2ya on 2008-07-06
> **Alasta said:**
> I have amost certainly done this wrong :)

alastair@LaburnumTwo:~$ gedit/etc/x11/xorg.conf
bash: gedit/etc/x11/xorg.conf: No such file or directory
alastair@LaburnumTwo:~$ 


as ever any help is much appreciated.


alastair fulcher

There should be a space between gedit and the first slash:

```
gedit /etc/x11/xorg.conf
```

;)

---

### Post by txcrackers on 2008-07-06
/etc/X11/xorg.conf

Note the capital "X"

---

### Post by Alasta on 2008-07-08
Thank you all for your help so far . I am cooking pizza as I type , I will post again soon with my results


best regards


Alastair

---

### Post by Alasta on 2008-07-11
That opens a window called xorg.conf with nothing in it . I have no clue what I am doing here , dont be afraid to tell if this is going to be a waste of time 


Many thanks

Alastair..

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-07-11
```
gksudo gedit /etc/x11/xorg.conf
```
you did not see anything because you were not a superuser.

---

### Post by ChameleonDave on 2008-07-11
> **Alasta said:**
> That opens a window called xorg.conf with nothing in it . I have no clue what I am doing here , dont be afraid to tell if this is going to be a waste of time 


Many thanks

Alastair..

That is what would happen if you put the wrong pathname in.  ;-)

Copy and paste exactly this into a terminal:

```

cat   /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

Then copy and paste the output here.

---

### Post by ChameleonDave on 2008-07-11
> **wolfen69 said:**
> ```
gksudo gedit /etc/x11/xorg.conf
```
you did not see anything because you were not a superuser.
No, failing to open it as the superuser would merely open it as read-only.  It would not be blank.

You too have got the path wrong.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-07-11
the x in x11 xhould be capitalized, /etc/X11/xorg.conf. This is why I use nautilus for this sort of stuff.

---

### Post by Alasta on 2008-07-12
[ code ]alastair@LaburnumTwo:~$ cat   /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
alastair@LaburnumTwo:~$ cd desktop
alastair@LaburnumTwo:~$ 

code]


Well that was scary ..


thank you all as ever for your help

---

### Post by ChameleonDave on 2008-07-12
> **Alasta said:**
> 

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver        "synaptics"
    Option        "SendCoreEvents"    "true"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
    Option        "Protocol"        "auto-dev"
    Option        "HorizEdgeScroll"    "0"
EndSection


Well, I haven't got a touchpad, but that section looks about right to me.

Looking in Synaptic (not to be confused with Synaptics!), I can see a couple of software packages related to touchpads: *gsynaptics* and *tpconfig*.  You should probably give those a try.

---

