---
title: ".rar extract and run issues."
date: 2010-03-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lakofrune on 2010-03-07
i have entered in the proper command which installed unrar and i simply have to extract the file and run it. i am encountering some problems though. i believe i have successfully extracted the.rar and all i need to do run the setup.exe inside, it runs, but the writing isn't readable. its like english but cut off. i tryed to install it and it said it was successful in installing, but i dont know how to find it. if you can give a walk through on what exactly i need to do that would be super. and if i did anything wrong please do correct me.
to be precise, where do i find the installed program?

---

### Post by steindor2 on 2010-03-07
> **lakofrune said:**
> i have entered in the proper command which installed unrar and i simply have to extract the file and run it. i am encountering some problems though. i believe i have successfully extracted the.rar and all i need to do run the setup.exe inside, it runs, but the writing isn't readable. its like english but cut off. i tryed to install it and it said it was successful in installing, but i dont know how to find it. if you can give a walk through on what exactly i need to do that would be super. and if i did anything wrong please do correct me.
to be precise, where do i find the installed program?

i'm assuming you used wine to run it
There should be a menuentry under the wine part of your menu.
If there is not, check your virtual /:C drive and try double clicking the executanble in the appropriate folder, the C drive can also found under the wine part of your menu.
information about what you were trying to install would be helpful;)

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-03-07
Installing a rar'ed .exe file, ain't that shady. What are you trying to install?

---

### Post by lakofrune on 2010-03-07
hmm somehow i got it to work, it was an obscure file, but i got it working. thanks anyway, i was using wine =]

---

