---
title: "9.04 not recognizing USB camera connection"
date: 2009-10-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wogga on 2009-10-12
Howdy! I'm running 9.04 on an IBM t42. 
I'm trying to connect a sony dsc-s650 via usb to import photos, and ubuntu is not recognizing the connection. No response when connected. I read another post about someone getting an error message, and that switching the camera to PTP mode fixed the issue for them, but i can't even get an error code, let alone do work.

As the forum name suggests, i am an absolute beginner. I can run terminal as long as i have precise instructions, and am more than happy to screenshot any log files or assist in any other way that would be useful to anyone who's willing to help.

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by nakama85 on 2009-10-12
> **wogga said:**
> Howdy! I'm running 9.04 on an IBM t42. 
I'm trying to connect a sony dsc-s650 via usb to import photos, and ubuntu is not recognizing the connection. No response when connected. I read another post about someone getting an error message, and that switching the camera to PTP mode fixed the issue for them, but i can't even get an error code, let alone do work.

As the forum name suggests, i am an absolute beginner. I can run terminal as long as i have precise instructions, and am more than happy to screenshot any log files or assist in any other way that would be useful to anyone who's willing to help.

Thanks in advance!

I found I had the same issue with my sony cam. The only workaround I found that works is to simply remove the camera card and plug it directly into the card reader slot.

Hope this helps

---

### Post by wogga on 2009-10-12
i found a similar thread, related to dapper drake. i ran dmesg like suggested in that thread, in order to shed more light for anyone trying to help.

```
c@HAL-9000:~$ dmesg |tail -n 20
[  106.769351] usbcore: registered new interface driver usbhid
[  106.769355] usbhid: v2.6:USB HID core driver
[  106.817328] usbcore: registered new interface driver lmpcm_usb
[  106.817333] lmpcm_usb: v0.5.5:USB Logitech MediaPlay Cordless Mouse driver
[  558.656081] usb 3-2: new full speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 3
[  558.886575] usb 3-2: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[  559.363356] usb 3-2: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 33 rq 102 len 0 ret -84
[  559.367353] usb 3-2: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 33 rq 102 len 0 ret -71
[  559.371355] usb 3-2: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 33 rq 102 len 0 ret -84
[  563.624089] usb 3-2: USB disconnect, address 3
[  565.848057] usb 3-2: new full speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 4
[  566.068906] usb 3-2: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[  566.347102] usb 3-2: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 128 rq 6 len 1000 ret -84
[  566.362091] usb 3-2: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 33 rq 102 len 0 ret -84
[  566.367094] usb 3-2: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 33 rq 102 len 0 ret -84
[ 1117.656109] usb 3-2: USB disconnect, address 4
[ 1323.736052] usb 3-2: new full speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 5
[ 1323.959974] usb 3-2: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[ 1324.250955] usb 3-2: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 33 rq 102 len 0 ret -84
[ 1324.254945] usb 3-2: usbfs: USBDEVFS_CONTROL failed cmd gvfs-gphoto2-vo rqt 33 rq 102 len 0 ret -84
```

thanks again. just want to say - after having gutsy on my (second to) last machine, and then linpus lite on the acer, i'm happy to be back with ubuntu, if only for the amazing level of knowledge and assistance in this community. you guys are great!

> **nakama85 said:**
> I found I had the same issue with my sony cam. The only workaround I found that works is to simply remove the camera card and plug it directly into the card reader slot.

Hope this helps

Well, i've been having issues with my cardreader (also usb - none on the chassis), especially with the MS slot on it, and throuh dumb luck, just found a small wad of dust wedged into the receiver on the reader's cradle. Voila. It's recognizing fine through the cardreader now. 

Thank you.

---

### Post by patiepp on 2010-03-01
I have the same camera sony dsc s650.Following steps suggested here([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=463711](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=463711)) were helpful.

" press the “MENU” button in the camera, and navigate through the various menu options until, in “Setup 2” menu page, you find the “USB Connect:” option. Ideally, it should be set to “Auto” -and it should work, of course. If it doesn't, set it to “Mass Storage”, then set the camera into Play mode, and see if the computer recognizes it. If it doesn't, and just for the heck of it, try the “USB Connect:” > “PTP” mode, and try again."

mine were set as "Mass storage", changing it to "PTP" mode did the trick.Now both gThumb and Fspot are able to download from the camera. :D

---

### Post by Koppie on 2010-06-09
Found the solution here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php...64&postcount=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php...64&postcount=3)

Short answer: run the following commands
> sudo killall gvfs-gphoto2-volume-monitor
sudo chmod -x /usr/lib/gvfs/gvfs-gphoto2-volume-monitor


---

