---
title: "audacity doesn't record from usb turntable"
date: 2019-01-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by newblank25 on 2019-01-24
I'm using linux 18.04. I successfully recorded a vinyl record. When i went back to use it again it starts then it just freezes.  I tried purge it from system & reinstalling to no success. any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-01-24
audacity records based on which input you select.  Normally, the inputs are controlled by pulse audio.  I don't have 18.04, but there is a GUI to control pulse settings **pavucontrol**.  It makes for a very flexible audio system once you get the hang of it.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2019-01-24
Does it actually play for a few seconds or longer before it freezes?  Can we have some info on your system please?  Does the graph keep moving when the music stops?

---

### Post by Autodave on 2019-01-25
Read your question again.....are you saying that it will not record?  In the program under Edit -> Preferences -> Devices: make sure that the turntable is chosen there.  Also, as TheFu stated, make sure that it is shown in pavucontrol.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-01-25
> **newblank25 said:**
> I'm using linux 18.04. I successfully recorded a vinyl record. When i went back to use it again it starts then it just freezes.  I tried purge it from system & reinstalling to no success. any help would be appreciated.

After Autodave said he'd re-read the OP, I did too.  This time, I'm certain I don't understand what the problem being reported is. 

Went back to use what?  audacity or the recorded files?
What freezes? audacity or the player with the audio files?

Purged what?  Audacity or all the audio files, all the project files and all the temporary files generated by the recording? I think the temporary files are somewhere under ~/.cache/.

If any file system fill up, that is bad.
If all the RAM on a system gets used up, that is bad.

I've had audacity appear to get stuck, but it was just thinking.  The current project file was very large and had nearly filled the /home/ partition.  The system only had 4G of RAM.  I moved everything over to a beefier system and is did appear to stall at start up, but after 45 sec, the project opened.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2019-01-25
Like Autodave and TheFu I have no idea exactly what you have done so far or quite what your problem really is.

If you have simply saved the audacity project using File ->Save, it was certainly the incorrect way to save the recorded music.
To save the recording as a .wav, .flac, recommended as it's a smaller sized loss free music filetype, or mp3 you need to go to File ->Export and choose a name and filetype there.

I have been using audacity for many years and have never once needed to save the audacity project, though I'm sure there must be several ways that the project can be useful to some users; I just have no idea what that might be!

Give us a lot more detail and we may be able to assist you more.

---

### Post by newblank25 on 2019-01-27
I can use audacity to change large music files to smaller ones that I have. I was able to it to previously record music via usb turntable. it just stopped working. I found ocenaudio program which records music which might be my solution..

---

### Post by lisati on 2019-01-27
Are you trying to record process all of one side of an album at once? My experience of using Audacity to enhance the soundtrack of video projects I'm working on is that can be pretty resource intensive on longer/larger audio files - more memory is better, and having a CPU with plenty of horsepower seems to help as well. 

(Disclaimer: my experience with Audacity is mostly on Windows)

**Edit:** I just saw your comment just above mine. Hmmmmmmm...../me wanders off for a coffee to help the thinking process.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2019-01-27
Once again, I am just slightly confused about what your problem is.  Is that Audacity will not record from the USB turntable or is it that you can no longer use Audacity to open a previously recorded project?

---

### Post by lisati on 2019-01-27
@newblank25: 
Let's see if I've properly understood what you are trying to do. Are you using Audacity to record from the turntable, then split the recording into individual tracks?

---

### Post by newblank25 on 2019-02-01
I can use audacity to edit music files. It just doesn't record from usb turntable. I switched to ocenaudio which records from usb turntable so maybe that is answer?.

---

### Post by yetimon_64 on 2019-02-01
> **newblank25 said:**
> .... I switched to ocenaudio which records from usb turntable so maybe that is answer?.
Going outside of the repositories carries some security risks when installing new software. If you are happy to take such a risk then, yes, maybe it is the answer for you.

After a bit of research the ocenaudio program sounds quite interesting and seems OK but I definitely would like to see it packaged for and put into the ubuntu repositories, even if only into the partners repo. I personally wouldn't install it until such times as I don't like the risk/benefit ratio as audacity seems easy enough for my use without stepping outside of the repos.

Good luck with it, regards, yeti.

---

