---
title: "12.04 Installing Synaptic via Terminal: Just Winking Cursor"
date: 2012-06-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Andavane on 2012-06-03
I've just made a fesh install of Precise 12.04 on an old laptop after having problems with Lubuntu (although it worked well) as described here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1967769]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1967769")

I needed to select the 2D mode at bootup to get a display.

I decided to install synaptic via the terminal, viz:

sudo apt-get install synaptic

The problem is that after typing in my password I only got a winking cursor, which is where it remained. On previous occasions I've been able to see progress of installation in terminal, but here it just kept on winking and I want to determine why.

I already had dropbox running in terminal.

---

### Post by Senior_Buckethead on 2012-06-04
When you install something else via apt-get, do you get the same result?
Perhaps you could try:
```

sudo apt-get remove synaptic
sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get install synaptic

```
Just a thought.

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-06-04
First I assume you have run

```
sudo apt-get update
```

at some point since installation? If not, that must be done first, and if so, it probably doesn't hurt to do it again before installing.
Next, are you using a proxy to connect to the Internet?
Can you confirm that you have a working internet connection (e.g., visit sites in the browser)?

---

### Post by Andavane on 2012-06-07
Hi, Ubuntu Gentlepersons:

> **Senior_Buckethead said:**
> When you install something else via apt-get, do you get the same result?
Perhaps you could try:
```

sudo apt-get remove synaptic
sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get install synaptic

```
Just a thought.

What I did while waiting for a reply was install it thru the Ubuntu Software Centre, although I prefer to install via the terminal whenever I can, as I get a better idea of what's going on. I wonder if it would harm to remove synaptic this way, thru the terminal & whether it'd mess up anything I installed thru synaptic. I'm not totally bothered about what happens, as I keep this machine for installing new distros on, so I can get familiar with the distro before upgrading my other machine. Besides, I always like a fresh clean install.

> **cortman said:**
> First I assume you have run

```
sudo apt-get update
```

at some point since installation? If not, that must be done first, and if so, it probably doesn't hurt to do it again before installing.
Next, are you using a proxy to connect to the Internet?
Can you confirm that you have a working internet connection (e.g., visit sites in the browser)?

I can't remember, but am making a point of running 
```
sudo apt-get update
``` on a regular basis now.

Actually I find installing thru the softwhere centre annoying as it's got things into a pickle too many times.

btw This machine is old, so it's Ubuntu 12.04 with 2D selected as the graphics don't displayin the default Ubuntu.

---

