---
title: "9.1 lost from grub - how to get it back"
date: 2010-01-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wapfu on 2010-01-04
I have newly installed 9.1.
9.1 originally showed as alternative software in the grub.
All mention of 9.1 is now lost in the grub.
Seem to have lost 9.1 from my grub loader. 
It has now 8.04 and mem test and xp windows.
I checked, restore defaults in the boot loader as well as keep one kernal. On reboot the 9.1 had gone and the selection of 8.04 resolted in an error 15 file missing.

How can I restore a correct boot load now????????.
How can I get back to anything?

---

### Post by Methuselah on 2010-01-04
Do you have a CD in your drive by any chance?
If so, eject it and reboot.

I'm not sure what happened though.
Anyone?

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-01-04
> **wapfu said:**
> I have newly installed 9.1.
9.1 originally showed as alternative software in the grub.
All mention of 9.1 is now lost in the grub.
Seem to have lost 9.1 from my grub loader. 
It has now 8.04 and mem test and xp windows.
I checked, restore defaults in the boot loader as well as keep one kernal. On reboot the 9.1 had gone and the selection of 8.04 resolted in an error 15 file missing.

How can I restore a correct boot load now????????.
How can I get back to anything?

In order to save us loads of time please post the results of the Boot Info Script as described here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1291280](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1291280)

It can be run either from an Ubuntu OS or from the Live CD.

---

### Post by wapfu on 2010-01-04
Hi,

I have two hard drives.
I originally had ubuntu 8.04.
I upgraded to 8.1
Then too 9.04 then 9.1 with kernal 2.6.31.16.

all thru the upgrade the grub showed 8.04 with the others as alternate operating systems after the mem test.

When I finally got 9.1 working I entered the boot loader program and selected 1 kernal to show and keep xp as the default operating system. And reset defaults.
Upon rebooting all the grub showed was 8.04 and its emergency setting plus mem test and xp as default.
I cannot get to 9.1 as it does not show on the grub.If I select 8.04 it gives me an error and will not boot.
Somehow I need to re-establish the grub.
9.1 resides on the second hard drive but I cannot get to it.
i have tried supergrub - it is not working.

How can I re-establish the grub and get things back????????
I cannot boot into 9.1 and do not know how to reconfigure the grub to allow it to see the 9.1 kernal.

sorry if I was not clear.
I have a 9.1 live CD.
Thanks
Bill:confused:

---

### Post by macheboy on 2010-01-04
> **wapfu said:**
> Hi,

I have two hard drives.
I originally had ubuntu 8.04.
I upgraded to 8.1
Then too 9.04 then 9.1 with kernal 2.6.31.16.

all thru the upgrade the grub showed 8.04 with the others as alternate operating systems after the mem test.

When I finally got 9.1 working I entered the boot loader program and selected 1 kernal to show and keep xp as the default operating system. And reset defaults.
Upon rebooting all the grub showed was 8.04 and its emergency setting plus mem test and xp as default.
I cannot get to 9.1 as it does not show on the grub.If I select 8.04 it gives me an error and will not boot.
Somehow I need to re-establish the grub.
9.1 resides on the second hard drive but I cannot get to it.
i have tried supergrub - it is not working.

How can I re-establish the grub and get things back????????
I cannot boot into 9.1 and do not know how to reconfigure the grub to allow it to see the 9.1 kernal.

sorry if I was not clear.
I have a 9.1 live CD.
Thanks
Bill:confused:

Please start that older version and post here your
/boot/grub/menu.lst

maybe the updater just commented 9.10 version lines out.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-01-04
> **wapfu said:**
> Hi,

I have two hard drives.
I originally had ubuntu 8.04.
I upgraded to 8.1
Then too 9.04 then 9.1 with kernal 2.6.31.16.

all thru the upgrade the grub showed 8.04 with the others as alternate operating systems after the mem test.

When I finally got 9.1 working I entered the boot loader program and selected 1 kernal to show and keep xp as the default operating system. And reset defaults.
Upon rebooting all the grub showed was 8.04 and its emergency setting plus mem test and xp as default.
I cannot get to 9.1 as it does not show on the grub.If I select 8.04 it gives me an error and will not boot.
Somehow I need to re-establish the grub.
9.1 resides on the second hard drive but I cannot get to it.
i have tried supergrub - it is not working.

How can I re-establish the grub and get things back????????
I cannot boot into 9.1 and do not know how to reconfigure the grub to allow it to see the 9.1 kernal.

sorry if I was not clear.
I have a 9.1 live CD.
Thanks
Bill:confused:

I'm not psychic, I need to see the output of the Boot Info Script:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1291280](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1291280)

It can be run using a Live CD.

---

### Post by wapfu on 2010-01-04
sorry bit lost as to how to get the script:confused:
If i use the live cd do I download the script and run whilst in live cd or do i download the script whilst i am in xp as I am now and burn to cd and run whilst i enter the 9.1 cd?.
Once I have the script from running in live cd - then do i open a browser and copy and paste?

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2010-01-04
Re: **9.10** lost from grub - how to get it back

Fixed it.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-01-04
I absolutely must say a bit more, I hope I don't get myself in trouble but this has happened a few times very recently.

You start out saying,

> I have newly installed 9.1.
9.1 originally showed as alternative software in the grub.

Then later you say:

> I originally had ubuntu 8.04.
I upgraded to 8.1
Then too 9.04 then 9.1 with kernal 2.6.31.16.

The fact is that each version upgrade should have completed with the deletion of the older versions kernels. then you're reluctant to provide the needed info. I don't get it :confused:

---

### Post by wapfu on 2010-01-04
Hi with each upgrade the grub still showed 8.04. 
The old kernals may have been deleted but the grub only showed 8.04 as still being present with the newer upgrades as alternate operating sys:confused:tems.
When 9.1 was installed it did remove old software.
still the grub 1.5 still showed 8.04 at the top.
sometime back I had a boot loader apllication which allowed some manipulation of the grub - i beleive that this is still defaulting?
I am in live cd at present.

---

### Post by wapfu on 2010-01-04
Hi,

Here is the print out
============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 0.97 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on boot drive #2 
    in partition #1 for /boot/grub/stage2 and /boot/grub/menu.lst.
 => Grub 0.97 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb and looks on the same drive 
    in partition #1 for /boot/grub/stage2 and /boot/grub/menu.lst.
sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows XP
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  Windows XP
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot.ini /ntldr /NTDETECT.COM

sdb1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext3
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 9.10
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/menu.lst /etc/fstab

sdb2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sdb5: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 250.1 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders, total 488397168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xa592a592

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1    *             63   488,375,999   488,375,937   7 HPFS/NTFS


Drive: sdb ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sdb: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders, total 312581808 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x0000be2f

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sdb1    *             63   150,657,569   150,657,507  83 Linux
/dev/sdb2         150,657,570   312,576,704   161,919,135   5 Extended
/dev/sdb5         150,673,635   158,850,719     8,177,085  82 Linux swap / Solaris


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

sda1: UUID="6668823668820551" TYPE="ntfs" 
sdb1: UUID="5a3f01c6-01cd-4efa-98ee-44c92a023588" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext3" 
sdb5: LABEL="ID_FS_USAGE=oth" UUID="5e87dfa7-2587-40d0-9e5c-8948466df7ee" TYPE="swap" 

=============================== "mount" output: ===============================

aufs on / type aufs (rw)
none on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
none on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
/dev/sr1 on /cdrom type iso9660 (rw)
/dev/loop0 on /rofs type squashfs (rw)
none on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw)
none on /sys/kernel/debug type debugfs (rw)
none on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw)
none on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,noexec,nosuid,gid=5,mode=0620)
none on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
tmpfs on /tmp type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
none on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
none on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
none on /lib/init/rw type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
gvfs-fuse-daemon on /home/ubuntu/.gvfs type fuse.gvfs-fuse-daemon (rw,nosuid,nodev,user=ubuntu)


================================ sda1/boot.ini: ================================

[boot loader]

timeout=2

default=multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS

[operating systems]

H:\CMDCONS\BOOTSECT.DAT="Microsoft Windows Recovery Console" /cmdcons

multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS="Microsoft Windows XP Professional" /noexecute=optin /fastdetect


=========================== sdb1/boot/grub/menu.lst: ===========================

# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8)
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8),
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-doc/.

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not change this entry to 'saved' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default		4

## timeout sec
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry
# (normally the first entry defined).
timeout		10

## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
#hiddenmenu

# Pretty colours
#color cyan/blue white/blue

## password ['--md5'] passwd
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the
# command 'lock'
# e.g. password topsecret
## password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/
# password topsecret

#
# examples
#
# title		Windows 95/98/NT/2000
# root		(hd0,0)
# makeactive
# chainloader	+1
#
# title		Linux
# root		(hd0,1)
# kernel	/vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro
#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=5a3f01c6-01cd-4efa-98ee-44c92a023588 ro

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=(hd1,0)

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options
## e.g. lockold=false
##      lockold=true
# lockold=false

## Xen hypervisor options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenhopt=

## Xen Linux kernel options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenkopt=console=tty0

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=all

## specify if running in Xen domU or have grub detect automatically
## update-grub will ignore non-xen kernels when running in domU and vice versa
## e.g. indomU=detect
##      indomU=true
##      indomU=false
# indomU=detect

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## should update-grub add savedefault to the default options
## can be true or false
# savedefault=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title		Ubuntu 8.04, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic
root		(hd1,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic root=UUID=5a3f01c6-01cd-4efa-98ee-44c92a023588 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-16-generic
quiet

title		Ubuntu 8.04, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic (recovery mode)
root		(hd1,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic root=UUID=5a3f01c6-01cd-4efa-98ee-44c92a023588 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-16-generic


title		Ubuntu 8.04, memtest86+
root		(hd1,0)
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title		Other operating systems:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sda1
title		Microsoft Windows XP Professional
root		(hd0,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader	+1


=============================== sdb1/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sdb1
UUID=5a3f01c6-01cd-4efa-98ee-44c92a023588 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro,relatime 0       1
# /dev/sdb5
UUID=600de7dc-44ae-4c38-9c09-6b70f6ab264b none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd1       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0

=================== sdb1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


    .0GB: boot/grub/menu.lst
    .0GB: boot/grub/stage2
    .0GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic
    .0GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic.bak
    .0GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-16-generic
    .0GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-16-generic
    .0GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic
    .0GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-16-generic
    .0GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-16-generic
    .0GB: initrd.img
    .0GB: vmlinuz
=======Devices which don't seem to have a corresponding hard drive==============

sdc sdd sde sdf

---

### Post by wapfu on 2010-01-04
A thought.
Can i change the menu list to show 9.1, that is change the kernal reference to 2.6.31-16.
If so how from the live CD?

Thanks 
Bill

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-01-04
OK we know Ubuntu is on sdb1 and Windows is on sda1.

I can guarantee you that you shouldn't have had any 8.04, 8,10. or even 9.04 kernels left after a truly successful distribution upgrade, so you had a problem lingering for quite some time!

We can try to fix it but I'm less than optimistic.

I truly think you should consider a re-installation which means backing things up, etc before we proceed much further. That said we could try to add the Karmic kernel to menu.lst automagically like this:

Note: I have serious doubts this will work but it also won't break anything. **I do want to see ALL of the terminal output!**

```
sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /mnt && sudo mount --bind /dev /mnt/dev && sudo mount --bind /proc /mnt/proc && sudo mount --bind /dev/pts /mnt/dev/pts && sudo cp /etc/resolv.conf /mnt/etc/resolv.conf && sudo chroot /mnt
```

```
dpkg-divert --local --rename --add /sbin/initctl
```

```
ln -s /bin/true /sbin/initctl
```

```
apt-get update
```

```
apt-get upgrade
```

```
update-grub
```

```
apt-get -f install
```

```
df -H
```

```
apt-cache showpkg linux-image
```

```
cat /etc/apt/sources.list
```

then:

```
exit
```

```
sudo umount /mnt/dev/pts && sudo umount /mnt/dev && sudo umount /mnt/proc && sudo umount /mnt
```

Maybe we'll get lucky!

---

### Post by wapfu on 2010-01-04
Hi,
As Follows
To run a command as administrator (user "root"), use "sudo <command>".
See "man sudo_root" for details.

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /mnt && sudo mount --bind /dev /mnt/dev && sudo mount --bind /proc /mnt/proc && sudo mount --bind /dev/pts /mnt/dev/pts && sudo cp /etc/resolv.conf /mnt/etc/resolv.conf && sudo chroot /mnt
root@ubuntu:/# dpkg-divert --local --rename --add /sbin/initctl
Leaving `local diversion of /sbin/initctl to /sbin/initctl.distrib'
root@ubuntu:/# ln -s /bin/true /sbin/initctl
ln: creating symbolic link `/sbin/initctl': File exists
root@ubuntu:/# apt-get update
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic Release.gpg
Ign [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic/main Translation-en_US                                
Hit [http://ppa.launchpad.net](http://ppa.launchpad.net) karmic Release.gpg                                               
Ign [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic/restricted Translation-en_US                          
Hit [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) karmic-security Release.gpg                                    
Ign [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic/universe Translation-en_US                            
Ign [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic/multiverse Translation-en_US                          
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic-updates Release.gpg          
Ign [http://ppa.launchpad.net](http://ppa.launchpad.net) karmic/main Translation-en_US                                    
Ign [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic-updates/restricted Translation-en_US                  
Ign [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic-updates/main Translation-en_US
Ign [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic-updates/multiverse Translation-en_US
Hit [http://ppa.launchpad.net](http://ppa.launchpad.net) karmic Release                          
Ign [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic-updates/universe Translation-en_US
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic Release                     
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic-updates Release                                       
Ign [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) karmic-security/main Translation-en_US                         
Hit [http://ppa.launchpad.net](http://ppa.launchpad.net) karmic/main Packages                                             
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic/main Packages                
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic/restricted Packages                 
Ign [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) karmic-security/restricted Translation-en_US 
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic/main Sources                        
Ign [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) karmic-security/universe Translation-en_US   
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic/universe Packages                   
Ign [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) karmic-security/multiverse Translation-en_US 
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic/universe Sources                    
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic/multiverse Packages                 
Hit [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) karmic-security Release                      
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic/multiverse Sources                  
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic-updates/restricted Packages                           
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic-updates/main Packages                                 
Hit [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) karmic-security/main Packages                
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic-updates/multiverse Packages         
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic-updates/universe Packages                             
Hit [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com) karmic-updates/main Sources                                  
Hit [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) karmic-security/restricted Packages          
Hit [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) karmic-security/main Sources
Hit [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) karmic-security/universe Packages
Hit [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) karmic-security/universe Sources
Hit [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) karmic-security/multiverse Packages
Hit [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) karmic-security/multiverse Sources
Reading package lists... Done                         
root@ubuntu:/# apt-get upgrade
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
root@ubuntu:/# update-grub
Searching for GRUB installation directory ... found: /boot/grub
Searching for default file ... found: /boot/grub/default
Testing for an existing GRUB menu.lst file ... found: /boot/grub/menu.lst
Searching for splash image ... none found, skipping ...
Found kernel: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-16-generic
Found kernel: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-16-generic
Found kernel: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic
Found kernel: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Updating /boot/grub/menu.lst ... done

root@ubuntu:/# apt-get -f install
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
root@ubuntu:/# df -H
Filesystem             Size   Used  Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sdb1               76G    55G    20G  74% /
none                    76G    55G    20G  74% /sys
udev                   1.8G   291k   1.8G   1% /dev
none                   1.8G   291k   1.8G   1% /dev/shm
none                    76G    55G    20G  74% /var/run
none                    76G    55G    20G  74% /var/lock
none                    76G    55G    20G  74% /lib/init/rw
root@ubuntu:/# apt-cache showpkg linux-image
Package: linux-image
Versions: 
2.6.31.16.29 (/var/lib/apt/lists/nz.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_karmic-updates_main_binary-i386_Packages) (/var/lib/apt/lists/security.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_karmic-security_main_binary-i386_Packages)
 Description Language: 
                 File: /var/lib/apt/lists/nz.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_karmic-updates_main_binary-i386_Packages
                  MD5: bbb651153b198d4cc1090132ccf7582b

2.6.31.14.27 (/var/lib/apt/lists/nz.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_karmic_main_binary-i386_Packages)
 Description Language: 
                 File: /var/lib/apt/lists/nz.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_karmic_main_binary-i386_Packages
                  MD5: bbb651153b198d4cc1090132ccf7582b


Reverse Depends: 
  linux,linux-image 2.6.31.16.29
  shorewall-common,linux-image
  linux,linux-image 2.6.31.14.27
  dkms,linux-image
Dependencies: 
2.6.31.16.29 - linux-image-generic (5 2.6.31.16.29) 
2.6.31.14.27 - linux-image-generic (5 2.6.31.14.27) 
Provides: 
2.6.31.16.29 - 
2.6.31.14.27 - 
Reverse Provides: 
linux-image-2.6.24-18-generic 2.6.24-18.32
linux-image-2.6.24-16-generic 2.6.24-16.30
linux-image-2.6.24-17-generic 2.6.24-17.31
linux-image-2.6.24-21-generic 2.6.24-21.42
linux-image-2.6.28-17-generic 2.6.28-17.58
linux-image-2.6.24-19-generic 2.6.24-19.41
linux-image-2.6.27-16-generic 2.6.27-16.44
linux-image-2.6.31-16-virtual 2.6.31-16.53
linux-image-2.6.31-16-generic-pae 2.6.31-16.53
linux-image-2.6.31-16-generic 2.6.31-16.53
linux-image-2.6.31-16-386 2.6.31-16.53
linux-image-2.6.31-15-virtual 2.6.31-15.50
linux-image-2.6.31-15-generic-pae 2.6.31-15.50
linux-image-2.6.31-15-generic 2.6.31-15.50
linux-image-2.6.31-15-386 2.6.31-15.50
linux-image-2.6.31-9-rt 2.6.31-9.152
linux-image-2.6.31-302-ec2 2.6.31-302.7
linux-image-2.6.31-14-virtual 2.6.31-14.48
linux-image-2.6.31-14-generic-pae 2.6.31-14.48
linux-image-2.6.31-14-generic 2.6.31-14.48
linux-image-2.6.31-14-386 2.6.31-14.48
root@ubuntu:/# cat /etc/apt/sources.list
# added by the release upgrader
# deb cdrom:[Ubuntu 9.04 _Jaunty Jackalope_ - Release i386 (20090420.1)]/ jaunty main restricted
# See [http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes](http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes) for how to upgrade to
# newer versions of the distribution.

# deb cdrom:[Ubuntu 9.10 _Karmic Koala_ - Release i386 (20091028.5)]/ karmic main restricted
# deb cdrom:[Ubuntu 8.04 _Hardy Heron_ - Release i386 (20080422.2)]/ hardy main restricted
deb [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) karmic main restricted
deb-src [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) karmic main

## Major bug fix updates produced after the final release of the
## distribution.
deb [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) karmic-updates restricted main multiverse universe
deb-src [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) karmic-updates main

## N.B. software from this repository is ENTIRELY UNSUPPORTED by the Ubuntu
## team, and may not be under a free licence. Please satisfy yourself as to
## your rights to use the software. Also, please note that software in
## universe WILL NOT receive any review or updates from the Ubuntu security
## team.
deb [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) karmic universe
deb-src [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) karmic universe

## N.B. software from this repository is ENTIRELY UNSUPPORTED by the Ubuntu
## team, and may not be under a free licence. Please satisfy yourself as to
## your rights to use the software. Also, please note that software in
## multiverse WILL NOT receive any review or updates from the Ubuntu
## security team.
deb [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) karmic multiverse
deb-src [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) karmic multiverse

## Uncomment the following two lines to add software from the 'backports'
## repository.
## N.B. software from this repository may not have been tested as
## extensively as that contained in the main release, although it includes
## newer versions of some applications which may provide useful features.
## Also, please note that software in backports WILL NOT receive any review
## or updates from the Ubuntu security team.
# deb [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) feisty-backports main restricted universe multiverse
# deb-src [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) feisty-backports main restricted universe multiverse

deb [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) karmic-security main restricted
deb-src [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) karmic-security main
deb [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) karmic-security universe
deb-src [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) karmic-security universe
deb [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) karmic-security multiverse
deb-src [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) karmic-security multiverse


# deb [http://giss.tv/~vale/ubuntu32](http://giss.tv/~vale/ubuntu32) ./


root@ubuntu:/# exit
exit
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo umount /mnt/dev/pts && sudo umount /mnt/dev && sudo umount /mnt/proc && sudo umount /mnt
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 

Did all that,
rebooted - grub had not changed
Back into live CD
Reran the code.
Print out as above.

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm:confused:

Can i change the menu list from live CD?
I mean manually configure - will it let me?

tried - no joy so far.

will reboot - after re-running code.
Cheers
Best regards
Fingers crossed
Bill

---

### Post by wapfu on 2010-01-04
Hi,
Back with live cd.
Grub had not changed

In file search
boot/grub/menu.lst

Print out is still
# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8)
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8),
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-doc/.

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not change this entry to 'saved' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default		4

## timeout sec
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry
# (normally the first entry defined).
timeout		10

## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
#hiddenmenu

# Pretty colours
#color cyan/blue white/blue

## password ['--md5'] passwd
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the
# command 'lock'
# e.g. password topsecret
## password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/
# password topsecret

#
# examples
#
# title		Windows 95/98/NT/2000
# root		(hd0,0)
# makeactive
# chainloader	+1
#
# title		Linux
# root		(hd0,1)
# kernel	/vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro
#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=5a3f01c6-01cd-4efa-98ee-44c92a023588 ro

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=(hd1,0)

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options
## e.g. lockold=false
##      lockold=true
# lockold=false

## Xen hypervisor options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenhopt=

## Xen Linux kernel options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenkopt=console=tty0

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=all

## specify if running in Xen domU or have grub detect automatically
## update-grub will ignore non-xen kernels when running in domU and vice versa
## e.g. indomU=detect
##      indomU=true
##      indomU=false
# indomU=detect

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## should update-grub add savedefault to the default options
## can be true or false
# savedefault=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title		Ubuntu 8.04, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic
root		(hd1,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic root=UUID=5a3f01c6-01cd-4efa-98ee-44c92a023588 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-16-generic
quiet

title		Ubuntu 8.04, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic (recovery mode)
root		(hd1,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic root=UUID=5a3f01c6-01cd-4efa-98ee-44c92a023588 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-16-generic


title		Ubuntu 8.04, memtest86+
root		(hd1,0)
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title		Other operating systems:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sda1
title		Microsoft Windows XP Professional
root		(hd0,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader	+1

Thanks for your patience
Next........

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2010-01-04
Would installing Grub2 from the LiveCD fix this?

---

### Post by wapfu on 2010-01-04
hi all,
Tried installing grub 2 - no luck.
Last resort was to install 9.1 to a new partion and copy all files to the new install.
Running well - all good.
Will delete the old partion to save any confussion latter.

A real marathon, thank you all for your assistance.
As I couldn't get into 9.1 - the only way out was complete new install.

Cheers,
Best regards
bill

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-01-05
Sorry I couldn't get back sooner my stinking power went out :(

It probably is best that you reinstalled, but just a bit of info dissemination:

update-grub found the Karmic kernel and says it updated the menu.lst (though your later display of menu.lst proves that wrong):

> root@ubuntu:/# update-grub
Searching for GRUB installation directory ... found: /boot/grub
Searching for default file ... found: /boot/grub/default
Testing for an existing GRUB menu.lst file ... found: /boot/grub/menu.lst
Searching for splash image ... none found, skipping ...
**[COLOR="Red"]Found kernel: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-16-generic[/COLOR]**
Found kernel: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-16-generic
Found kernel: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic
Found kernel: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Updating /boot/grub/menu.lst ... done


Just another BTW: I also probably would have recommended upgrading to grub2, but just changing packages doesn't get-r-done. If update-grub finds a menu.lst in /boot/grub it will NOT properly update grub.cfg so it's necessary to backup the old /boot/grub and create a new one something like:

sudo mv /boot/grub /boot/grub_backup
sudo mkdir /boot/grub

Then make package changes something like:

sudo apt-get --purge remove grub
sudo apt-get install grub-pc
sudo update-grub
sudo grub-install /dev/sda (replace /dev/sda with your proper destination)

Anyway, glad you got things working.

---

### Post by wapfu on 2010-01-05
Thanks kansasnoob.

New install running fantastically well.
Cheers
Best regards

---

