---
title: "8.04 refuses to accept password"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by stevepett on 2008-04-25
Have re-installed 6 times and each time it refuses to accept the correct password!

Help!

Steve

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-25
Is this in a terminal, or at the logon screen?

---

### Post by Mazza558 on 2008-04-25
Is caps lock on? ;)

---

### Post by Zralou on 2008-04-25
Try typing slower, I had the same problem when I first installed.  The keyboard repeat rate is set to fast by default till you adjust it.

Sara Lou

---

### Post by stevepett on 2008-04-25
Problem at logon - and no, the caps lock is off (I have tried 6 times!)

Steve

---

### Post by stevepett on 2008-04-25
> **Zralou said:**
> Try typing slower, I had the same problem when I first installed.  The keyboard repeat rate is set to fast by default till you adjust it.

Sara Lou

Wasn't typing fast - slow 2 fingers !!!!!

Steve

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-04-25
Sounds stupid, but you are 100% sure that the password is correct etc.

You could boot into recovery mode if all else fails :)

---

### Post by Toadmund on 2008-04-25
Login through Gnome failsafe, then install the proprietary restricted drivers.
Then try logging in through xsession or gnome.

---

### Post by ACJarrett on 2008-04-25
If all else fails, Do a fresh install with no password and write down the Username in no caps.  If you can't log in without a password set then you know it's not an issue of misstyping.  

Later on you can set your password under Admin->User

---

### Post by stevepett on 2008-04-26
What a plonker I am!

There is ONE box for username AND password.

Being dim, I didn't read it carefully and as the username must have been allocated automatically, I didn't realise I have one!

So if in doubt, READ THE ON SCREEN INSTRUCTION!

Thanks to all,  I shall now experiment with my first version of Linux!

Steve

---

