---
title: "Permissions - I think..."
date: 2008-11-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by TripitakaUK on 2008-11-28
I have a media drive containing music etc that is ntfs formatted. Current permissions are root.root

In ubuntu, I can add files/folders and delete files/folders no problem.

If I try to change the ID3 tag on the music files using Ex Falto, I get a permission denied error.

Same happens is I try and edit the tags in XP inside a VirtualBox.

I'm only just getting used to Ubuntu - man, it's a steep curve!

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2008-11-28
```
gksudo nautilus
```

navigate file system > media. Right click on disk (or whatever your drive is called) select properties and change the permissions there.

Then close the bloody window before you accidentally delete something critical to your system.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-11-28
As you have found out, even though the partition is owned by root, you are able to read/write an NTFS partition as a regular user. Is this partition mounted through fstab? NTFS permissions are set during mounting and can't be changed thereafter. If it is mounted in fstab you can designate the owner of the device and, at least within linux, you would probably be able to change the tags.

The entry in fstab would be something like the following, after creating a mountpoint and changing it's ownership to yourself:
```

sudo mkdir /media/yourmountpoint
sudo chown -R yourusername: /media/yourmountpoint
chmod -R 750 /media/yourmountpoint

```

Edit fstab and add:
```

/dev/sdXX /media/yourmountpoint ntfs auto,users,uid=1000,umask=027,utf8 0 0

```

Then mount the device:
```

sudo mount -a

```

---

### Post by TripitakaUK on 2008-11-28
Won't play that way as the drive is ntfs and from what I have read, the permissions are set at mount through uid/gid. Just tried your suggestion to confirm and it reverts back to root immediately.

Its as if I have create and delete permission but not change.

EDIT: Refers to post #2

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2008-11-28
Of course you are right. I`ve asked the same question myself, see here -

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=873045](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=873045)



:oops:](*,)

---

### Post by TripitakaUK on 2008-11-28
This is my fstab:

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=ebbab419-9179-422d-b381-3599375cb55b / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=0457d1a2-f892-447f-b11d-9775cb942477 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb3 /home ext3 nodev,nosuid 0 2
/dev/sde1 /media/HDTV#1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdd2 /media/Workspace ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdc1 /media/File\040Storage ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/VMWare ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

I know enough to realise that I need to be very careful when messing with this file...

mount/drive is sdd2 and the folder I need to change is immediately below "Workspace".

What do I need to add to that line to make it happen. The "why" would also be most welcome so I could learn.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-11-28
> **TripitakaUK said:**
> 
I know enough to realise that I need to be very careful when messing with this file...

mount/drive is sdd2 and the folder I need to change is immediately below "Workspace".

What do I need to add to that line to make it happen. The "why" would also be most welcome so I could learn.

First, you can backup your current fstab and open for editing:
```
sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.backup
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```

Edit the line to look like this:
```
/dev/sdd2 /media/Workspace ntfs auto,users,uid=1000,umask=027,utf8 0 0
```
Save the file, then unmount /dev/sdd2 and remount it:
```

sudo umount /dev/sdd2
sudo mount /dev/sdd2

```

Note: You mentioned you wanted to change the folder below /media/Workspace. The line above will also effect /media/Workspace as well as the subfolder but should not present any problems unless you have some unique and unlikely permissions established for the 'Workspace' folder.

As to the why: As stated earlier, ntfs and fat partitions set the ownership at the time of mounting. The above command sets the ownership of the mountpoint to the user whose id is 1000. If you were user 1001, you would need to change this in fstab. Auto is actually the default, and 'users' allows users to mount the partition manually; so technically neither of these commands is required. It just ensures things will work and allow you to manually mount the folder if it doesn't. Similarly, I had you 'chown' the mountpoint, although again the ownership is really done during mounting.

---

### Post by TripitakaUK on 2008-11-28
A-ha! I think we are getting somewhere...

That worked a treat and I am now the owner with read and write acces. Group is still root with read-only and others have no access.

I still can't change the tag in Ex Falso though - same problem, denied permissions.

Do I need to set the gid to me also in the fstab to make this work?

---

### Post by TripitakaUK on 2008-11-28
doh.

that results in permissions of drwxr-x---

whatever that means. Doesn't solve my issue though.

---

### Post by TripitakaUK on 2008-11-28
Now this has just got plain bizarre!

I have set the umask to 000, thus allowing all changes. Am I right in thinking that anyone should be able to do anything with that, yes?

Permissions reflect that.

Still can't edit the tag... :confused: :confused:

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-11-28
You can change the fstab setting to include "gid=1000" to make your group also be part of the permissions. And yes, umask=000 will allow anyone to do just about anything to your files. With just the user setting the app should have allowed you to edit the tag.

I am not familiar with Ex Falso but I'll install it and see if I can come up with anything. If I do I'll edit this post.

**Update:** I created an ntfs partition, installed Ex Falso, and added an fstab entry reflecting the same commands. I was able to edit the tags without problem. You said you have been able to add files, so I am assuming you have a version of ubuntu with ntfs-3g installed. If not, go to synaptic and install 'ntfs-3g' and 'ntfsprogs'. The second isn't required but has useful tools for such things as labeling and repair. Then run the NTFS Configuration tool (System Tools, NTFS Configuration Tool) and make sure writing capability is enabled.

---

### Post by TripitakaUK on 2008-11-28
Yes, ntfs-3g is installed but I assumed you had seen that in my fstab config and deliberately used the ntfs rather than ntfs-3g command in the instruction.

I'll change it now and give it a shot.

Mark.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-11-28
In recent versions of ubuntu the 'ntfs' and 'ntfs-3g' are interchangeable. 

Via our PMs it appears there is more to this than just the ability to write the labels to the file.

---

