---
title: "9.10 upgrade issue"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Detroit_Bad_Boy on 2009-10-31
I am currently running kubuntu 9.04. Update manager showed the upgrade to 9.10 as being available. I tried the upgrade, but when it got to checking the package manager, I was confronted with the message stating that I needed to clear 974 MB of space to complete the install. I should state that I installed kubuntu WITHIN windows using wubi as my laptop has an unusable DVD burner/player.
  When I initially did the install, I used the minimal amount of space available for the partition, so my question is two-fold: Could this have something to do with the upgrade problem and if so, is there a way to configure the partition without having to re-install kubuntu?
  Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by Liolikas on 2009-10-31
Not exactly what you want, but you may try to install grub2 from windows and boot from *.iso file with GRUB2. Still this will be re install.

---

### Post by phillw on 2009-10-31
> **Detroit_Bad_Boy said:**
> I am currently running kubuntu 9.04. Update manager showed the upgrade to 9.10 as being available. I tried the upgrade, but when it got to checking the package manager, I was confronted with the message stating that I needed to clear 974 MB of space to complete the install. I should state that I installed kubuntu WITHIN windows using wubi as my laptop has an unusable DVD burner/player.
  When I initially did the install, I used the minimal amount of space available for the partition, so my question is two-fold: Could this have something to do with the upgrade problem and if so, is there a way to configure the partition without having to re-install kubuntu?
  Any help would be greatly appreciated.


Hi,

easy answer ...... yes :D

the part of the instructions is here ---> [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide#How%20do%20I%20resize%20the%20virtual%20disks?](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide#How%20do%20I%20resize%20the%20virtual%20disks?)

That wiki has all things of stuff within windows, hope that sorts it for you.

Regards,

Phill.

---

