---
title: "8.10 - Floppy Drive"
date: 2009-04-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by thraxsa on 2009-04-01
I am having mammoth problems with mounting my floppy drive - it is probably no big problem as I rarely use it, but would be nice to get it working all the same.

I have tried the following :

1) 'sudo modprobe floppy'

2) 'sudo mkdir /mnt/floppy'

3) 'ls /dev | grep fd0' 

4) add this line to /etc/fstab :
/dev/fd0 /mnt/floppy auto user,exec,rw,noauto 0 0

5) 'sudo mount /mnt/floppy'

6) added floppy to /etc/modules

still nothing ... I get a "write protect" message when attempting mount /mnt/floppy.

I am yet do download the 210mb of updates that is showing in my update manager, but I didn't think that would be an issue...

Any ideas ???

As I said, I am not overly concerned if it doesn't work ....

---

### Post by rhcm123 on 2009-04-01
Try switching the little switch on the back right of the floppy. That's the write proctect switch for the disk. The drive won't write to it if that switch is down. Move it up to set it to writeable.

EDIT: Also, if you are having mounting errors, try mounting /media/floppy. That's the standard ubuntu floppy mount point.

---

### Post by thraxsa on 2009-04-01
Thanks - I don't even think the light on my floppy drive turned on at all.

I will give those two things in the prev post  a try  !!!!!

---

### Post by Sir Jasper on 2009-04-01
Hi,

I had the same problem.

Insert the floppy then go to places after:
    sudo modprobe floppy

I forget who gave me that tip but it was the only one that worked for me.

My regards

---

### Post by egalvan on 2009-04-01
I have the following in fstab


/dev/fd0	/media/floppy0	auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8		0 0


This computer has a working floppy, and this was set up automatically.
using Hardy 8.04.2

---

### Post by thraxsa on 2009-04-01
> **egalvan said:**
> I have the following in fstab


/dev/fd0	/media/floppy0	auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8		0 0


This computer has a working floppy, and this was set up automatically.
using Hardy 8.04.2

thanks for that - might copy that into my fstab and give that a try ...

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-04-01
My fstab entry for the floppy (which works) is as follows:

```

/dev/fd0   /media/floppy0  vfat	 user,utf8,umask=000 0 0

```

It shows up under Places --> Removable Media --> Floppy Drive

But if you click on that when no floppy is in the drive, you will get errors.

---

### Post by egalvan on 2009-04-02
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> My fstab entry for the floppy (which works) is as follows:

```

/dev/fd0   /media/floppy0  vfat	 user,utf8,umask=000 0 0

```

It shows up under Places --> Removable Media --> Floppy Drive

But if you click on that when no floppy is in the drive, you will get errors.


My fstab entry works...

it shows up under

Places -->  Floppy Drive

when I insert a floppy, it automatically pops up an icon on the desktop, and pops open a file window...
Remove the floppy, and the icon disapears.

If you click on it with no floppy in the drive, it does nothing...
no window pops up, but no error either.

Very similar action to the CD drive...

Unfortunately I haven't learned enough to explain the differences
between your version and mine...

ErnestG

---

### Post by thraxsa on 2009-04-02
> **Sir Jasper said:**
> Hi,

I had the same problem.

Insert the floppy then go to places after:
    sudo modprobe floppy

I forget who gave me that tip but it was the only one that worked for me.

My regards

Thanks - at the risk of sounding like a noob, what to you mean by "go to places" ????  Is that a menu option ???

---

### Post by mocoloco on 2009-04-02
If you've already done this then sorry, but it's not mentioned so I wanted to check:  What happens when you click on the "Places" menu and you select "Floppy"?
Or another way is in the file browser (viewing any folder, say your home folder) click on the floppy icon on the left.  

Do you get an error message?

---

### Post by thraxsa on 2009-04-02
looks like the floppy drive itself is not working - will not boot up in XP either and appears to be activated in my bios....

not to worry, i have survived many years without one and somehow I don't think much software comes exclusive to floppy disk anyway !!!!

:p

---

### Post by Sir Jasper on 2009-04-02
Hi,

Re: testing your floppy drive with windows

If you insert a floppy and hold down Win key and press the letter e does your floppy have a Windows Explorer drive letter (probably a or b) and can you read the contents of it if you click on the drive?

I ask, because I have no idea of your level of experience, and think your BIOS has to allow you to boot from it (assuming it has a bootable program on it).

My regards

---

### Post by gandaran on 2009-04-02
> 6) added floppy to /etc/modules

still nothing ... I get a "write protect" message when attempting mount /mnt/floppy.
you don't have to mount the floppy drive, all you have to do to get it working is first add 'floppy' to /etc/modules, next make a 'floppy0' folder in /media directory, then reboot the computer, now you can find the floppy drive in nautilus » computer or places » floppy drive!

---

