---
title: "9.04"
date: 2008-11-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Glurf on 2008-11-28
My update manager is giving me the option to upgrade to 9.04, but I know its still in alpha. I'm not usually doing anything too extreme; browsing the internet, downloading stuff, listening to music, watching movies, what I want to know is if its stable enough not to give me problems doing this. I like using new technology, I ran 8.10 in beta, but I don't want to have to downgrade if its chock full of problems

---

### Post by adult swim on 2008-11-28
its going to break alot and it is not recommended to use on your main machine.  it is just alpha 1.

---

### Post by OutOfReach on 2008-11-28
Alphas (especially very early alphas like alpha 1) are very unstable and may cause major breakage.
I DO NOT recommend upgrading to Alpha 1.

---

### Post by howefield on 2008-11-28
Here's the release statement

[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2008-November/000513.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2008-November/000513.html)

No one can tell how it will perform on your machine, but as others have said this is Alpha software, you have to expect breakage and instability.

Don't think it has a live cd available yet so you can't even try it before you install. If you need a working stable system, steer clear. April will come soon enough :):)

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-11-28
It sounds to me like you have something horsed up in Software Sources:

[ATTACH]94531[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]94532[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Glurf on 2008-11-28
> **kansasnoob said:**
> It sounds to me like you have something horsed up in Software Sources:

[ATTACH]94531[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]94532[/ATTACH]

update-manager -d from the run application menu brings up update manager with the 9.04 option

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2008-11-28
IMO you should not run an alpha unless you are willing to tolerate some breakage and if needed, re-install.

The alpha will take quite a bit of band width at there are frequent package updates.

IMO you should also be willing to file bug reports.

If you are interested , see 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=352](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=352)

---

### Post by sportscrazed2 on 2008-11-28
9.04?  why is it jumping from 8.10 to 9.04?

---

### Post by oilchangeguy on 2008-11-28
> **sportscrazed2 said:**
> 9.04?  why is it jumping from 8.10 to 9.04?

april 2009 (9.04) october 2008 (8.10)

---

### Post by SilverGoldBronze on 2008-11-28
They are not versions, but Date Reminder thingies

8.10 was released in the **10**th month of the **8**th year, 9.04 will be released in the **4**th month of the **9**th year.

---

### Post by sportscrazed2 on 2008-11-28
cool so i know when the next version is coming up

---

### Post by Hyper Tails on 2008-11-28
I would never recommend upgrading to alpha

alpha's are unstable and they are only for testing

if you have virtual box installed download the iso and install it on a virtual machine ;)

---

