---
title: "GDM Does Not Start Automatic"
date: 2009-10-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by arnold.pietersen on 2009-10-24
Hi

When I start Jaunty, I get the splash screen followed by a mouse pointer and nothing else.  Each time I have to press Ctrl+Alt+F1, then login and then I type: sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart and I will get into Ubuntu.

I have to do this each and every I restart the laptop. I have tried the xfix from the recovery mode when you start Ubuntu.

The following is the results for sudo lshw -C display

  *-display:0 UNCLAIMED   
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 02
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
  *-display:1 UNCLAIMED
       description: Display controller
       product: 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2.1
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.1
       version: 02
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm cap_list
       configuration: latency=0

The following is the content of my Xorg.conf file

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Any help will do?

Thanks

---

### Post by macaholic on 2009-10-24
What graphics driver do you have installed?
Also, have you tried running ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
``` as stated in xorg.conf? Although I don't see anything in there that is obviously problematic...

---

### Post by arnold.pietersen on 2009-10-24
Hi macaholic

Thanks for your quick response.

I ran the command as you have indicated.  When I opened xorg.conf, it was still the same.

How do I check for the graphics driver?

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by macaholic on 2009-10-24
I'm not entirely sure since I had never used a intel graphics card, but it may show up in System>Administration>Hardware Drivers. If it's not listed there you can install it yourself.

---

### Post by lidex on 2009-10-24
oops!

---

### Post by lidex on 2009-10-24
GDM threads:
```
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1253012]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1253012")
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1213785]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1213785")
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1259121]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1259121")
```

---

### Post by arnold.pietersen on 2009-10-25
Hi Lidex

The first thread worked like a bomb.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1253012](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1253012)

I basically run the following command:

sudo apt-get install --reinstall gdm && sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm

Before you could say howzit, it worked. It seems that GDM was broken somehow.

Thanks a million for your and macaholic's help.

---

