---
title: "10.10 theme for 10.04?"
date: 2010-10-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Ben Page on 2010-10-14
Hey Ubuntu gang! Been using 10.04 since it launched, I'm using Ubuntu mostly as a diagnostic tool and as an OS in the pocket tied to my car keys key chain. 10.04 is treating me right since I installed (made) a persistent USB installation and I find little reason to upgrade to 10.10. I tried 10.10, but it does not work as a persistent USB OS very well and is sometimes tricky to get it to work on some machines (maybe the new x?). Anyway, I don't want to install it, but I love the new theme, so I looked for it, but no luck. Is there a way to install 10.10s theme on 10.04, that polished "Ambience" theme? And is there any way to install/upgrade the new software mngr on it as well?

---

### Post by migs73 on 2010-10-14
I was the opposite and now have the 10.04 Ambiance on 10.10. All Ichanged was the top of the window (the buttons and got rid of the line that goes across it).

To do this I replaced the file in usr/share/themes/Ambiance/metacity-1 with those from the other distro. Make a copy of the existing file first, just in case.
If you want the entire theme, I would think you could just copy the entire Ambiance folder over (rename it 'Ambiance Maverick' or whatever first) and then you will have it as a whole new theme with the Lucid one still available.

EDIT; BTW the reason I am saying make a copy is that there are different parameters in the new file and I don't know if they will work in 10.04

---

### Post by Ben Page on 2010-10-14
Thnx, I'll try that, I was looking for it in the repos and synaptic for some reason #-o

---

### Post by Ben Page on 2010-10-14
Damn it, it's a no go! I copied the whole folder (from 10.10) and copied it to /usr/shared/themes (in 10.04) but I got one more 10.04 Ambiance theme - identical. I'm sure that I copied 10.10 Ambiance files. It looks like I'm missing some other files...

Here is what I copied (from) and pasted to themes folder:

rapidshare.com/files/425050881/Ambiance_Maverick.zip

Is there any other way, or 'am I doing something wrong? ](*,)

---

### Post by cap10Ibraim on 2010-10-14
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:murrine-daily/ppa 
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade 
```

---

### Post by Ben Page on 2010-10-14
Yeah, but this way I'm upgrading everything, it wants to get almost 300MB of files. Even if I had patience for this I don't have enough space in my casper-rw file (only 1GB). Is there a way to isolate only the theme and/or sw center?

---

### Post by cap10Ibraim on 2010-10-14
:confused: what ? I got it in 2 mins !!

---

### Post by Ben Page on 2010-10-14
Got what? it may be that you have automatic updates on so you gradually updated your OS. Mine is a relatively fresh install on USB drive. Or you just have blazingly fast internet connection :)

---

### Post by twinaxel on 2010-10-14
> **cap10Ibraim said:**
> ```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:murrine-daily/ppa 
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade 
```



Wow just tried this amazing difference !

Thanks

---

### Post by migs73 on 2010-10-14
Pity there was not an apt-get downgrade option for me to get the old version of Ambiance :(

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-10-14
> **migs73 said:**
> Pity there was not an apt-get downgrade option for me to get the old version of Ambiance :(

Download link for theme and icons is on this page.[http://www.webupd8.org/2010/03/new-ubuntu-1004-light-and-dark-themes.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2010/03/new-ubuntu-1004-light-and-dark-themes.html)

---

### Post by migs73 on 2010-10-14
I have already done it manually, I have Lucid and maverick dual booting so it was an easy copy. Thanks anyway.

---

### Post by ebramwells on 2010-10-14
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> Download link for theme and icons is on this page.[http://www.webupd8.org/2010/03/new-ubuntu-1004-light-and-dark-themes.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2010/03/new-ubuntu-1004-light-and-dark-themes.html)

Newbie here. I’m in the same boat as migs73 and want to downgrade. Tried all the above suggested routes, I couldn’t get them to work for me. 

I downloaded older the theme with the above link then tried to install it, but the software centre wouldn’t let me do so over the newer version, or even let them install side-by-side. Is there any way I can install the older theme, maybe under a different name to prevent conflicts or something?

---

### Post by migs73 on 2010-10-15
> **ebramwells said:**
> Newbie here. I&#8217;m in the same boat as migs73 and want to downgrade. Tried all the above suggested routes, I couldn&#8217;t get them to work for me. 

I downloaded older the theme with the above link then tried to install it, but the software centre wouldn&#8217;t let me do so over the newer version, or even let them install side-by-side. Is there any way I can install the older theme, maybe under a different name to prevent conflicts or something?

Not sure how to do it with the downloaded deb files, but if you have a livecd or usb of Lucid you can do it like this;
Boot into Lucid, run a terminal and type in **(see edit below)**;
```
gksudo nautilus
``` put in your password when prompted and then use the file browser to find and copy file usr/share/themes/Ambiance. 


[B]
EDIT; * Don't know how sudo works from a liveCD? You might not need it.[/B]

(NB YOU ARE LOGGED IN AS ROOT AND CAN MAKE A MESS OF YOUR SYSTEM FILES>>>PLEASE BE CAREFUL<<<<<<)

Put it onto your desktop in Maverick (you should be able to browse to it from the Live CD) and rename it Ambiance LL.
Next shut down and boot into Maverick. Your Ambiance LL folder should be on your desktop. Run terminal and the code mentioned before (same warning too!!), open the folder usr/share/themes and paste the Ambiance LL folder into it. Now close down the file browser (this will drop the root priviledges).
Now open the Appearance Preferences and select the theme tab. Then Select the Ambiance theme (if not already selected) and then customise. One of the sets of custom options should now be Ambiance LL. Select it for Controls and Window borders (the others can be left at the Maverick Ambiance default settings).
Obviously if you want Radiance just swap that for Ambiance in my instructions.
 
Please be carefull when in sudo nautilus.

---

### Post by ebramwells on 2010-10-15
Thanks. I had tried that route before, but it didn&#8217;t work. I realised that I had to change the permissions of the folders so the appearance manager could use them. Simple oversight.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by davidjnice on 2010-10-25
> **migs73 said:**
> Pity there was not an apt-get downgrade option for me to get the old version of Ambiance :(
Hi.  I though the same thing so I re-packaged the 1.6.6 version so that it installs alongside the new themes.

These will show up as Lucid-Ambiance and Lucid-Radiance and leave the new versions in place.

You can pick up the 'downgrade' at [http://www.davidjnice.com/projects/lucid-themes.html](http://www.davidjnice.com/projects/lucid-themes.html)

Let me know if you like it!

---

### Post by davidjnice on 2010-10-25
> **ebramwells said:**
> Newbie here. I’m in the same boat as migs73 and want to downgrade. Tried all the above suggested routes, I couldn’t get them to work for me. 

I downloaded older the theme with the above link then tried to install it, but the software centre wouldn’t let me do so over the newer version, or even let them install side-by-side. Is there any way I can install the older theme, maybe under a different name to prevent conflicts or something?
As per my reply to migs73:

You can pick up the 'downgrade' at [http://www.davidjnice.com/projects/lucid-themes.html](http://www.davidjnice.com/projects/lucid-themes.html)

---

### Post by migs73 on 2010-10-25
> **davidjnice said:**
> Hi.  I though the same thing so I re-packaged the 1.6.6 version so that it installs alongside the new themes.

These will show up as Lucid-Ambiance and Lucid-Radiance and leave the new versions in place.

You can pick up the 'downgrade' at [http://www.davidjnice.com/projects/lucid-themes.html](http://www.davidjnice.com/projects/lucid-themes.html)

Let me know if you like it!

Thanks that sounds great. I have already done this by copying my files from my Lucid partition anyway, but its good to know they're out there for future reference.(I really dislike the new ones!!)

---

### Post by Jetro on 2011-01-16
Sorry to bump, but I also would like to «downgrade» the Ambiance/Radiance theme (10.10) back to the default 10.04. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to.

> **davidjnice said:**
> You can pick up the 'downgrade' at [http://www.davidjnice.com/projects/lucid-themes.html](http://www.davidjnice.com/projects/lucid-themes.html)
It works, but for instance in Synaptic, you get fugly grey boxes. Obviously quite a few bugs there.

---

### Post by davidjnice on 2011-02-28
Hi Jetro,

Just noticed the problem you had with synaptic.

This is because Synaptic runs as root (after you sudo).  The root user doesn't have the themes installed because (I'm guessing) you dragged 'n' dropped into the theme manager.   This only installs the theme in your home directory.

To have the theme available to all users (and therefore synaptic), you need to extract the files from the gz file to /usr/share/themes

If you've already installed the themes in you home directory (the default if you drag and drop) the following command will copy them over the the system-wide themes directory for you...

sudo cp -R ~/.themes/Lucid-Ambiance ~/.themes/Lucid-Radiance -t /usr/share/themes

(I didn't bother with the .deb file as there wasn't much feed-back.  Perhaps I'll get around to it now!)

Let me know if you have any other issues...

David.

---

