---
title: "8.10: can't set screen resolution."
date: 2008-10-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by flameproof on 2008-10-31
Gee, I can't set the screen resolution!

I have all the option in the window, but the Apply/OK button is out of the screen (too low) and I can't click it.

Any workaround?

OK, I found it: ALT+A

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-10-31
Is your Hardware Driver enabled? Main Menu > System > Administration> Hardware Drivers.
If so, you could try to change the resolution from: Main Menu > System> Preferences > Screen Resolution.

---

### Post by flameproof on 2008-10-31
> **eternalnewbee said:**
> Is your Hardware Driver enabled? Main Menu > System > Administration> Hardware Drivers.
If so, you could try to change the resolution from: Main Menu > System> Preferences > Screen Resolution.

Well, the problem was that I could open that perfectly, but the APPLY and CLOSE buttons where below the screen and unclickable.

Solved now with a keyboard ALT+A

Thanks for looking at it. I thought of deleting my question, but then maybe another poor soul finds in with a search and solves his problem.

---

### Post by Pconfig on 2008-10-31
> **flameproof said:**
> Well, the problem was that I could open that perfectly, but the APPLY and CLOSE buttons where below the screen and unclickable.

Solved now with a keyboard ALT+A

Thanks for looking at it. I thought of deleting my question, but then maybe another poor soul finds in with a search and solves his problem.

You should mark your thread solved then ;)

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads)

---

### Post by koolkatkiwi on 2008-12-23
Thanks so much for this post. I have tried and tried to get a higher screen resolution set, but none of the search results mentioned to change the driver, or where to find that, until this post. I hope other people find this post too! 

Now I can get back to enjoying exploring Ubuntu 8.10.

Cheers,
Kathy Lamb Worsfold

******************************************
Bill & Kath - "Kiwi Entertainers!"
[www.billkath.co.nz](www.billkath.co.nz)
******************************************

---

