---
title: "14.04 using GeForce 7600GS"
date: 2014-05-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mlempenau on 2014-05-29
I am installing 14.04 on a new HD.  But I'm using an old graphics card.  I tried to use the Nvidia legacy drives furnished with this distribution of ubuntu.  One would not load and the other (173.14.39) loaded and then gave me a blank screen when I rebooted.  Is my graphics card too old for this distribution?

---

### Post by mlempenau on 2014-05-29
More info ....  I'm NOT using 64bit.  Are the Nvidia drivers for 64 bit?

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-29
For the 2nd driver, try giving the boot option of "nomodeset".  You'll need to edit the command line from the menu and tell it to boot to see if it helps.  If it does, we can make it permanent.

---

### Post by mlempenau on 2014-05-29
I'm afraid I don't know how to do this.  Sorry.  I need instructions.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-05-29
The drivers are for 32 and 64 bit. 
Did you check the 'add closed source packages' box (or something similar) at the beginning of the install?

---

### Post by mlempenau on 2014-05-29
No I didn't.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-05-29
It would most likely have given you the correct drivers from the beginning without the need for nomodeset or other boot options.

---

### Post by mlempenau on 2014-05-30
I reinstalled from scratch.  It gives me the X.org X server Nouveau display driver.  Is this what I should use?  Not bother with trying to get a Nvidia driver???  I checked all the boxes I saw.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-05-30
This says you should have the 304.xx legacy driver.
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/IO_32667.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/IO_32667.html)

Installing any other version will cause issues. And you have to totally purge any previous nVidia install if installing a new/different driver as they create conflicts. Much better just to use the correct version from the repository.

I have a bit newer 9600GT and have to use nomodeset to boot until I install the proprietary driver from System Settings.
       At grub menu you can use e for edit, scroll to linux line and replace quiet splash with nomodeset.
How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 - both BIOS liveCD & grub first boot ( also UEFI with grub) 
[URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132"]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132
[/URL][https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)

I used to have a 7600GT and it literately blew up. I heard a pop on night but system kept working. Next morning my wife said system would not start. I replaced power supply, motherboard and video card and install immediately worked. Turned out power supply was probably good. I think motherboard was killed as I tried a new processor and it in another system and it would not work.
Turned out I later found photos of issue on Internet. Capacitors pop ends and you can see them opened up. I have some almost wide open and a few expanded.

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2014-05-30
I installed Ubuntu 14.04 64 bit with my nVidia GeForce 7300 card.
It would lock up after I logged in.
Went to the command prompt in safe video mode and issued:
sudo apt-get remove nvidia*
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current

Those two commands fixed my nvidia problem.

Carl

---

### Post by mlempenau on 2014-05-30
First of all I want to think everyone for helping me.  I appreciate it very much.  Thinking about my next move ... it seems it might be better to get a new video card.  But then that means working with an old mother board and chip.  What to do? What to do?

---

### Post by mlempenau on 2014-05-31
After reading OldFred's post a couple times I double checked the legacy drive list and my video card was there.  I had tried to find this before but could not.  It specifically indicated that 304.117 drivers was the correct one.  This is the one that had previously hung on me.  So I gave it another shot.  And it loaded perfectly.  So the lesson for today is to not take the first reaction as correct.  It doesn't hurt to try again!  

In short, this problem was solved by a re-installation of 14.04 and then loading the correct driver again.  

I want to thank everyone who helped me through this process.  Now to the next issue!!  Hopefully it will be just as easy.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-05-31
Good, please mark the thread 'solved'.

---

### Post by mlempenau on 2014-05-31
This thread has been solved!!

---

