---
title: "11.10 Installation"
date: 2011-12-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Nikhil Kenvetil on 2011-12-06
Hello all,
 
This isn't my first attempt to install Ubuntu, but would be first to install 11.10. I've installed 11.04 earlier but due to a graphic card issue, it wasn't working correctly, or i would say, at all.
 
This is my laptop configuration:
 
HP Pavilion laptop(model TX1004), with 4gig memory, 640 gig HDD, 1 GB ATI Radeon video card, running on an i5 proc (2nd Gen)..
 
**I would firstly want to know, if 11.10 would work on my machine, becuase of the fact that 11.04 did not**. Apparently the video card that i have (6470M ATI Radeon) did not support that(11.04). I used to get a distorted screen upon booting, before even i can put my login credentials. Even while installing it, here and there, there were distorted screens showing up abruptly. I had to power down my whole computer, and redo everything. So, primariy i would like to know if 11.10 is 6470M compatible.
 
My next big question is **totally** about installation. Since i have a 640 gb HDD, i didn't want Windows to take up all of it. So i created 6 partitions and installed Windows on one of it. It is about 100gb. I have another one 100GB partition reserved for Ubuntu alon, and i would want to utilize it. One other partition is specifically for music, the other for movies, and so on. i wuold want to know if i can keep the data i have on the computer (in its own respective partitions) and still go ahead and install 11.10 on it.
 
You help will be GREATLY appreciated. No, I mean it!
 
Thank you in advance!! :D

---

### Post by Miljet on 2011-12-06
It is hard to say if your video card will or will not work. There are several sites that list compatibility of various components, but for me, the information is spotty at best. The best idea is to download the iso, burn it to disk, and try it in live CD mode. If it works in Live mode, it should work when installed.

The short answer to your second question is yes, you can install Ubuntu without disturbing you other partitions. Just be absolutely sure you know before you start which partition you want to use and be careful during install to only use that partition. And it is always a good idea to make a back-up of all your important data before doing anything with partitions. 

You didn't mention setting aside a partition for swap. You need at least two partitions for Ubuntu -- one for the system files, known as "root" and shown as a forward slash "/", and one for swap. The swap partition should generally be the size of your memory, in your case 4Gb.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-12-06
> **Miljet said:**
> It is hard to say if your video card will or will not work. There are several sites that list compatibility of various components, but for me, the information is spotty at best. The best idea is to download the iso, burn it to disk, and try it in live CD mode. If it works in Live mode, it should work when installed.



If it is a video card question live mode is not going to help very much unless it works with the open source driver out of the box. What I am saying is even if it doesn't work in live mode it may still work, only the live usb/cd would not allow for more extensive tests and trials.

You can't install proprietary graphic driver in the live usb  even with persistence (not supported) or upgrade your open source driver, --takes too long, some updates may not br supported, not enough space etc) "Burn a CD" is even more problematic because you lose everything on reboot and some changes would only take effect on rebooting! It is also clunky, and more prone to error,--scratched CD, wrong burn parameters etc. CD is really yesterday's story, most computers made in the last 7 or 8 years would be able to boot from usb if BIOS is configured properly.

For testing hardware I recommend doing a full installation in an external harddrive, it would be a real install so whatever tweaks and modifications you have to do in your real install can be tried there.

---

### Post by Nikhil Kenvetil on 2011-12-07
> **Miljet said:**
> It is hard to say if your video card will or will not work. There are several sites that list compatibility of various components, but for me, the information is spotty at best. The best idea is to download the iso, burn it to disk, and try it in live CD mode. If it works in Live mode, it should work when installed.

The short answer to your second question is yes, you can install Ubuntu without disturbing you other partitions. Just be absolutely sure you know before you start which partition you want to use and be careful during install to only use that partition. And it is always a good idea to make a back-up of all your important data before doing anything with partitions. 

You didn't mention setting aside a partition for swap. You need at least two partitions for Ubuntu -- one for the system files, known as "root" and shown as a forward slash "/", and one for swap. The swap partition should generally be the size of your memory, in your case 4Gb.
Thank you for that information.. I know how to set up the swap space..! i mean isn't it twice the memory?

---

### Post by Dlambert on 2011-12-07
Some people do one half your total RAM, I don't create swap when I have 4 gigs or larger (16 currently), because my total RAM usage never goes above 1 gig.

---

### Post by Miljet on 2011-12-07
Swap space used to be twice the ram back when most computers had less than 1Gb. With the amount of ram installed now, swap is seldom used. I always suggest setting swap space equal to ram in case you ever want to hibernate your computer.

---

### Post by Nikhil Kenvetil on 2011-12-08
> **Dlambert said:**
> Some people do one half your total RAM, I don't create swap when I have 4 gigs or larger (16 currently), because my total RAM usage never goes above 1 gig.
could you explain to me in simple words, the purpose of this swap space, becuase if it isn't required, then why have it? most of the computers these days come with over a gig in memory.. right?

---

### Post by Miljet on 2011-12-08
Swap space is a part of your hard disk that can be used as system memory if, and when, you are running low on memory. As I already stated, you will need a swap space at least as large as your memory if you ever hibernate your computer. In that case, the entire contents of memory is written to disk before the memory is turned off.

Here is a link to some more info: [https://www.linux.com/news/software/applications/8208-all-about-linux-swap-space](https://www.linux.com/news/software/applications/8208-all-about-linux-swap-space)

---

### Post by Nikhil Kenvetil on 2011-12-13
Thank you Miljet. Really appreciate it.

---

