---
title: "8.10 wallpaper"
date: 2008-12-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Rita G. on 2008-12-22
Can anyone tell me what the ubuntu 8.10 default background wallpaper is all about?

Looks like a copper drainpipe after a truck ran over it.

Is it supposed to symbolize something?

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2008-12-23
That is the Intrepid Ibex, or at least the final draft of it LOL, I know I changed it as soon as I installed 8.10, but then I usually do.  :P  That's the nice thing about Linux, choice, choice, choice, and it's all free   :P

---

### Post by nhasian on 2008-12-23
its supposed to be one of these:

[IMG]http://www.ics.uci.edu/~eppstein/pix/lazoo/Ibex-m.jpg[/IMG]

too bad the next version of Ubuntu isnt a real animal but an imaginary jackalope:

[IMG]http://cogdog.wikispaces.com/space/showimage/jackalope-title.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by Rita G. on 2008-12-23
what the hell is that (top photo)?

is that a jackass?

with horns?

is that an actual real animal? Or some photo enhancement?

what I really would like to know is,

**what is it supposed to symbolize?**

(btw thanks for replies from yez)

---

### Post by ZhiZaki on 2008-12-23
I thought it looked a lot like an "outline" of someone screaming...

---

### Post by nhasian on 2008-12-23
its a real animal.  a mountain goat:

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ibex](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ibex)

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2008-12-23
> **Rita G. said:**
> what the hell is that (top photo)?
is that a jackass?
with horns?
is that an actual real animal? Or some photo enhancement?
what I really would like to know is,
**what is it supposed to symbolize?**
(btw thanks for replies from yez)

All of the Ubuntu themes have had animal names (usually african) ie: Gutsy Gibbon, Hardy Heron, and now Intrepid Ibex.  The next is Jaunty Jackalope.

---

### Post by Rita G. on 2008-12-23
thanks nhasian & gettinoriginal

i thought it was all b.s.

but now that i see that the ibex is a beautiful animal....

i get it.

(don't know anything about art, so forgive me)

ubuntu is an education in itself!

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2008-12-23
Glad to help, and you are right, Ubuntu is a learning experience.  But at 61 years old I still believe that a day without learning at least one thing is a wasted day.  :p

---

### Post by marea on 2008-12-23
I found the following reason for the name by Mark Shuttleworth: 

"During the 8.10 cycle we will be venturing into interesting new territory, and we'll need the rugged adventurousness of a mountain goat to navigate tricky terrain."

See rest of post [here]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2008-February/025136.html").

---

### Post by media_ on 2008-12-23
The wallpaper is nice, Im glad it's a goat without having to look at a goat.  At first I thought it was more of a mug ring on your coffee table.

---

### Post by Malalo on 2008-12-23
> **media_ said:**
>  At first I thought it was more of a mug ring on your coffee table.

I think that's intended. Ubuntu -> coffee -> mug ring -> ibex
Pretty poetic and artistic...

---

### Post by evilkastel on 2008-12-23
Well, anyway is not the best wallpaper ever. and the Darkroom theme is not great anyway. thats one of the flws in ubuntu people often point at, the lack of a pretty and consistent default theme. i personally liked better willwill's mockups, and got the partial implememtation working, too.

---

### Post by DavidPcs on 2009-01-04
Haa what a great description of the default wallpaper, I suppose it's cool as some kind of abstract artsy thing but it was not my favorite choice and as we are developing a preinstall for new PCs I needed to be able to not just change the background but the default background that all new users will get initially,  I figured out how to change it but I don't think it&#347; the right way, 

I was looking at the directory

/usr/share/backgrounds

where the default background is called

warty-ubuntu-final.png

in the file manager, nautilus, I could see the preview of the file in icon mode, along with some other files of .jpg and .png,

But the curious thing was that when I clicked on each file I could preview them in the default file viewer for images in nautilus, all except for the warty-final-ubuntu.png file. An error occured when I clicked on it, said that it was not a graphic file PNG, sorry I don't have the exact quote, all my sistems are in spanish, including the error messages. But in short, nautilus said it is not file type .png and refused to open in Eye of Gnome 2.24.1 but it did open fine in Gimp,
I opened Dolphin, again saw the preview of the file and it opened fine with the f-spot 0.5.0.3 of Dolphin.

Experimentally I made a copy of the file warty-ubuntu-final.png in a temp dir, changed the file extension from .png to .jpg and it opens in all including nautilus with previews in the file manager., weird, is png and jpg actually the same thing?????? or is it that Linux can see the file type regardless of the Windows like extension of .jpg o .png.??

Back on track to my initial objective, to change the default background in Ubuntu I renamed another graphic file of .jpg type to warty-ubuntu-final.png and copied it into the directory
/usr/share/backgrounds overwriting the original graphic file of the same name,
now every new user gets this desktop background image for their default.

There are also many interesting config files in /etc/default

I know this is a backdoor amatuer method to make this change, please don't get me wrong,

I would love to know where the config file is that specifies that /usr/share/backgrounds/warty-ubuntu-final.png is the default desktop background file.

If anyone knows, I'm all ears. 
Thanks

---

