---
title: "12.04 new install unstable"
date: 2013-10-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Wray on 2013-10-31
Complete system rebuild.. Currently nothing on the system but 12.04 with all the upgrades. seemed to run ok for a SHORT while, then things blew up.
My wife runs the LA times crossword puzzle and had no problems with 12.10 which i ran for a good while.  With 12.04 the cursur will randomly jump all over the place.
System is essentially unuseable..cant edit the google search block or web address block.

i was pretty happy with 12.10 until the disk crashed, now have been trying for two days to get 12.04 up and running

I'm sure somebody out there has seen this problem before...Any help is greatly appreciated

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-10-31
Post the hardware spec of you system. What graphics are you using?

---

### Post by Wray on 2013-10-31
Having a hard time doing that just now, the system is so unstable, but it's a standard vanilla Gateway system with dual core pentium E5300 and using the onboard graphics, whatever that is.  If i can finagle some more info out of this chaotic system i will post it.

Thanks for the reply

---

### Post by merlyn2748 on 2013-10-31
Silly question, have you tried connecting the mouse to a different USB port?  How about a different mouse?  I would start there.  Have you tried logging in on Unity 2d?  Those two tests will give you a better idea of where to start with this problem.

---

### Post by Wray on 2013-11-01
More info:
I find that the system is pinning every site i go to so that when i look in workspace switcher,
 i see dozens of workspaces containing, apparently, all the sites i have visited since  the new install
and i cannot unpin them
They do not go away even after the system is shut down and restarted
The machine seems pretty stable for a few minuted after start up, but gets progressively
worse quickly, to the point it becomes essentially unuseable in a very few minutes.

---

