---
title: "12.04 install skype"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jrev on 2012-04-28
Hi all,
how do you install skype on Ubuntu 12.04 ?
Which depots must be registered ?

---

### Post by Ms. Daisy on 2012-04-28
Is skype in the software center?

What do you mean "Which depots must be registered?"

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-04-28
It must be enabled "Canonical Partners" to see skype in software center . Goto Update manager --> settings --> other software and check if box is ticked . If its not , tick it and open a terminal and ```
sudo apt-get update
``` . Then skype will be there.

---

### Post by Ichorid on 2012-04-28
Hi jrev,

you have to download skype from its webpage:
[http://www.skype.com/intl/en/get-skype/on-your-computer/linux/](http://www.skype.com/intl/en/get-skype/on-your-computer/linux/)

open the downloaded file and click install.

---

### Post by fantab on 2012-04-28
> **NikTh said:**
> It must be enabled "Canonical Partners" to see skype in software center . Goto Update manager --> settings --> other software and check if box is ticked . If its not , tick it and open a terminal and ```
sudo apt-get update
``` . Then skype will be there.

+1

That is it.

---

### Post by robbosch on 2012-04-29
Any idea why skype seems to 'disappear' when you minimize it? I don't see any reference of skype being active, but clicking on the skype icon in unity application bar gives the response that skype already is running.

My problem is that I can't open skype anymore after it is minimized. any thoughts?

/edit: I installed skype with the .deb from the skype website. This doesn't seem to work. By adding the partner repositories and install through software center or apt-get, ther problem is solved.

---

### Post by escrappa on 2012-04-29
> **fantab said:**
> +1

That is it.


:'( It is not ....

BUT after terminal installation it is working.

---

