---
title: "11.10 crashes unless..."
date: 2012-03-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by otherone2 on 2012-03-04
I installed Ubuntu 11.10 and every time I turn my computer on completely freezes/crashes at the login or just a few seconds after I get control of the desktop. I have figured out that if I dual boot into my windows 7 then go to restart computer and run ubuntu it works perfect and amazing. I have can give computer specs and what not if needed but knowing it runs fine under those odd conditions I don't think its a hardware issue. I have done all the updates and what not as well. I am new to Linux so thought this post would be more suited here as answers could lead me to more questions.

---

### Post by acimi66 on 2012-03-04
One thing I found with the dual boot is it actually messed up WIN7...It just wasn't the same. I am running Ubuntu on a complete new installation. 

Something I found out with my Toshiba, in the advanced BIOS setting boot was set to "fast" which over rode all other boot settings...weird...but once I change it to "normal" it seem to make the boot up "more consistent".

I hope you find the help you need.

---

### Post by mapes12 on 2012-03-05
Sounds like there may be an issue with your Grub installation. This may fix it:-

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)

---

### Post by otherone2 on 2012-03-05
I tried both methods with no luck, unless there is some kind of advanced setting in Boot-Repair I'm missing. Done a lot of researching and not found anyone with my issue... Sucks to have to boot Windows first but I am glad I can successfully get in somehow.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-03-05
Do you know what graphics card you are using?

---

### Post by otherone2 on 2012-03-05
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Do you know what graphics card you are using?

AMD Radeon HD 6320 is the one.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-03-05
At the boot screen where you select the OS, choose the first kernel on the list and hit 'e' to edit. 

* Find the kernel line which will end with 'quiet splash' probably. Splash will be there somewhere;
* Add to the end of that line 'nomodset';
* The instructions to save the change and boot are at the bottom of that page (can't remember exactly sorry, 'x' and then 'b' perhaps, have a look).

See if that gives you any joy. If not, try the same procedure but this time use 'acpi=off' instead of 'nomodset'. 

May be a graphics driver issue which will be easier to fix if you can get to the desktop, even in low resolution mode. Failing all this, try the recovery kernel (second on the list) and take note of any errors that spits out, especially when/if the boot crashes. ;)

Are you using the 64bit or 32bit Ubuntu?

---

