---
title: "13.04, no option to install alongside Win7"
date: 2013-06-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by shawfield on 2013-06-08
Hi
Been searching the forum for notes about dual booting alongside an existing Win7 installation.
Everything I found suggests that there is an option in the install program ( from USB ) to install
'alongside existing windows 7', but I dont see that. Just 'replace Windows 7' and 'Something else'.

If I choose 'something else', then I appear to need to know something about partition shrinking/creation
etc & I am not 100% confident enough to 'learn by failure' on that subject !

Any help appreciated.

Thanks
Mike

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-06-08
Do you already have 4 primary partitions on a mbr partitioned drive? That's the most common cause for your problem. Ubuntu needs a few partitions, but many computers with pre-installed windows 7 come partitioned in such a way that adding those partitions is impossible without first deleting one. This post may help you: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11299287#post11299287](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11299287#post11299287)

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-06-08
IF you're serious about wanting dual-boot with Win7, then read through the details below BEFORE charging ahead with Ubuntu installation:

You need to see the disk partitions when you boot into Win7 and use the Disk Management utility. Count the partitions you see. IF there are already four of them, that is the maximum allowed. IF you FORCE the creation of another, not only will that automatically convert the Basic Volumes into Dynamic Disks (something you do NOT want to do), it will then PREVENT the installation of Linux.

If you decide to continue on with dual-boot, then use ONLY the Win7 Disk Management utility to shrink the Win7 OS partition to make room on the drive. Win7 is very finicky about its OS partition being messed with from "outside" with other tools -- like GParted. While it may be OK, it's more likely to result in filesystem corruption, which will then render Win7 unbootable.

And, after you create some free space, do NOT format it using the Win7 Disk Management utility; leave it as free space.

Then BEFORE you install Ubuntu, use the Win7 Backup feature to create and burn a Win7 Repair CD.  You might need this later if the dual-boot install corrupts the Win7 boot loader.

When you then install Ubuntu, use the "Something Else" option to allow Manual Partitioning.

---

### Post by tyar on 2013-06-08
if u wanna dual boot, just choose something else, n choose d partition u want to use. if u doubt bot d partition, make it from windows..

---

### Post by Rob Sayer on 2013-06-08
> **Impavidus said:**
> Do you already have 4 primary partitions on a mbr partitioned drive? That's the most common cause for your problem. Ubuntu needs a few partitions, but many computers with pre-installed windows 7 come partitioned in such a way that adding those partitions is impossible without first deleting one. This post may help you: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11299287#post11299287](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11299287#post11299287)

That's what I was thinking basically.  Completely disregard post #4.

I had that sort of problem on my  first ubuntu install.  It was on a Compaq, which is really an HP, and this is common on HP machines.  They put a separate partition on the opposite end of the drive from the windows boot partition, with their restore or HP bloatware stuff.  I had to delete that partition and expand the main one to fill the space in windows, then install dual boot.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-06-09
> **tyar said:**
> ... if u doubt bot d partition, make it from windows..

If you're saying to create the partition for Ubuntu from Windows, that's really BAD advice ... Windows can't make Linux filesystem partitions, you should KNOW that before giving such advice.

---

### Post by shaunthesheep on 2013-06-09
Hi 

I just wanted t mention an alternative form of duel booting which does not rely on the creation of a duel boot menu.  The menu can get screwed up by subsequent Windows or even Ubuntu updates so that you are locked out of both OSs! I left Windows on my primary physical HDD and fitted a secondary physical HDD expecially for Ubuntu.

Here is a [link to the post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2146204&p=12652579#post12652579") that suggested this alternative. I reproduce it here:

> **Re: How do I avoid duel boot menu problems arising from Ubuntu/Windows updates?         **[INDENT]                     This is what I did to overcome that same problem.    THREE Seperate Hard Drives.  No partitions.  No Boot Loader.
Connected the first hard drive and booted off of the CD and installed  Windows 8. Disconnected that Hard Drive and connected the Second HD.  Installed Windows 7. Disconnected that HD and connected 
a Third HD and Installed Ubuntu.  
Then went back and connected all three Hard Drives.  Now when I turn on  the Computer I press the F12 Key and from the menu select which HD to  Boot off of.  IF I don't press anything Windows 8 Boots up.
The Primary HD can be set in the BIOS.                 
[/INDENT]
                                                                                                       
   

I didn't need Windows 8. I am happy with Windows 7 so I just needed to fit a second HDD. It seems to be working OK (knock on wood).

---

### Post by newb85 on 2013-06-09
That method is all well and good, provided you have multiple physical HDDs to work with.

That "duel boot menu", or dual boot menu, rather ;), is GRUB.  There are situations where it can "get screwed up", but they are easily rectified with the use of a LiveDVD or USB.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2013-06-23
This all seems a bit silly.. (im just annoyed) lol    
I mean.. a month ago I installed Ubuntu 13.04 on a dell laptop with WIn7 (dual boot)
I got the option.. "Install Ubuntu 13.04 alongside Windows 7",  which I used, and everything worked flawlessly. 

I'm now attempting to install 13.04 on another dell laptop with win7 -dual boot again.. and I get only this
[ATTACH=CONFIG]244078[/ATTACH]

I know I can choose "Something else" and manually resize and change partitions, 
but honestly.. I've never had much luck with dual boot installs using that method. lol :/ 
Everytime I let ubuntu do it though, it seems to work fine.
If it was my computer I'd just wipe it, but is not mine. 

Here is what my partitions look like
. [ATTACH=CONFIG]244080[/ATTACH]

Marks Phelps confused me. :/  lol

Is there a simple way around this without f'n everything up..er what?  Thanks.

---

### Post by trag on 2013-06-24
You are correct about the lack of options in this case,however I have installed from a USB drive (Netbootin) that did have that option. Try downloading the ISO again, only get the 32 bit instead of the 64bit or vise versa just to see what options you end up with. ( sometimes you have to kiss a few frogs before you find your prince.)

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-06-24
> **Rasa1111 said:**
> This all seems a bit silly.. (im just annoyed) lol    
I mean.. a month ago I installed Ubuntu 13.04 on a dell laptop with WIn7 (dual boot)
I got the option.. "Install Ubuntu 13.04 alongside Windows 7",  which I used, and everything worked flawlessly. 

I'm now attempting to install 13.04 on another dell laptop with win7 -dual boot again.. and I get only this
[ATTACH=CONFIG]244078[/ATTACH]

I know I can choose "Something else" and manually resize and change partitions, 
but honestly.. I've never had much luck with dual boot installs using that method. lol :/ 
Everytime I let ubuntu do it though, it seems to work fine.
If it was my computer I'd just wipe it, but is not mine. 

Here is what my partitions look like
. [ATTACH=CONFIG]244080[/ATTACH]

Marks Phelps confused me. :/  lol

Is there a simple way around this without f'n everything up..er what?  Thanks.

This generally happens if the whole HDD is NTFS or all of its partitions are NTFS. If you have a reasonable amount of free space (Unallocated Space) then Ubiquity will give you a choice to 'Install alongside Ubuntu'. If not then you will get an option to 'replace windows'.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2013-06-24
Thanks guys, I appreciate the answers. :)
I ended up getting it to work by using the windows disk management tool to allocate the space/partition first, 
Then going back into the USB drive to install Ubuntu.  I did run into a little "issue" where I wasnt able to create a swap file.. 
and Im honestly not sure if that will harm me (this computer) or not.. But both OS's boot up, for the time being. lol :P

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2013-06-24
ohh, After I did free up some unallocated space and tried again... It still didnt give me the option. :/ lol

Now i just realized that if Im running the 13.04 usb drive (live) , I connect fine to wireless..
But as soon as I boot into the actual ubuntu partition... no wifi and drivers wont activate. lol :/

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2013-06-24
> **fantab said:**
> This generally happens if the whole HDD is NTFS or all of its partitions are NTFS. If you have a reasonable amount of free space (Unallocated Space) then Ubiquity will give you a choice to 'Install alongside Ubuntu'. If not then you will get an option to 'replace windows'.

Hmm,  After I went into the win. disk management tool and freed up some (unallocated) space, I freed up half of the HDD to put Ubuntu on... So 150+ GB or so should be sufficient, right?   I still didnt get any new options though.

Seriously thinking about trying to talk them into no windows on this thing..
But.. I can't even get my wireless driver to work on the actual install. lol

Siighh

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-06-24
150GB should be okay. If I were you, I would
20GB for '/'
2GB SWAP
128GB for '/home'

Generally with newer PC's with 4GB or more RAM SWAP is rarely used. However, it is recommended that you have some SWAP.

If you can tell us what Wireless you have then perhaps we can help.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2013-06-24
> **fantab said:**
> 150GB should be okay. If I were you, I would
20GB for '/'
2GB SWAP
128GB for '/home'

Generally with newer PC's with 4GB or more RAM SWAP is rarely used. However, it is recommended that you have some SWAP.

If you can tell us what Wireless you have then perhaps we can help.


That does sound like good advice. Thank you fantab. :)
The machine in question doesn't have 4gb ram, but it does have 3GB RAM. 
Yeah, I would feel more comfortable if I knew there was at least some SWAP. lol

I'm stop back here when I get that machine back on my lap and see whats up with the wireless thing. I appreciate ya. :)

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2013-06-24
Ugh.  I don't understand how it activates and uses the driver fine via live session, but as soon as I get to the actual install , It refuses to work.

Via Live session~ Here is the driver activated and working. (it's connected to wifi)
[IMG]https://copy.com/41hX7lodNELY[/IMG]


Now here we are at the actual install, I click the driver to activate it, and it just goes back to "Do not use the device"-
and WiFi is non-existent. 
[IMG]https://copy.com/ZrAFHqpRnKmg[/IMG]

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2013-06-24
Eh , I got it all worked out in the end. 
All worked out for the best (they let me remove windows completely). lol :D  Thanks guys.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-06-24
> **Rasa1111 said:**
> Eh , I got it all worked out in the end.

Hi Rasa1111 !

Saw you on the forums after quite a long time ;). Not sure you were away or I just couldn't catch the pleasant coincidence. :P

Anyway, I was eager to answer a couple of your questions.

> Yeah, I would feel more comfortable if I knew there was at least some SWAP. lol
As far as I know, a swap '**file**' gets created automatically if you don't have a swap 'partition'. You can confirm this with the command -
```
cat /proc/swaps
```

Usually you'll see something like this in the output -
```
Filename				Type		Size	Used	Priority
/dev/zram0                              partition	1975292	714428	100
/dev/sda5                               partition	4341756	13964	-1

```

Here, 'zram0' is a virtual swap area within the RAM, and I believe it is created in every Ubuntu installation in current versions. It's size is about half the available RAM.

The second one is an actual swap partition. In your case, it may be a file instead of a partition.

Your other (now solved) issue with wireless -
Based on info on this page : [http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43](http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43)
..the device in question (BCM4312) works with both the proprietary driver you installed (wl) and the native one (b43). However, it is recommended to use the native one (b43) wherever possible as it 'usually' delivers better performance.

It needs a proprietary firmware to work and that's the reason why it can't work unless you manually install it. Fortunately, installing it is as easy as installing the "linux-firmware-nonfree" package :
```
sudo apt-get install linux-firmware-nonfree
```

Or, if the system has no internet connection, download it manually from [here]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/precise/all/linux-firmware-nonfree/download") > copy to the Ubuntu system > double-click to install.

But, as you may also agree, "don't fix it if it ain't broken !", lol !

If you wish or need to try the b43 driver for the device (in case the wl driver performs poorly), you will need to purge the proprietary driver -
```
sudo apt-get purge bcmwl-kernel-source broadcom-sta-common broadcom-sta-source
```
..before or after installing the linux-firmware-nonfree package.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2013-06-25
Hello Varunendra!  
Thanks soo much for the great reply! 

I was also under the impression that the swap file would be created automatically, at least that's what I remember. lol
But that time it did not, and it warned me about there beiing no swap partition, and then asked if I wanted to proceed anyway. 
But it didnt ask if I wanted it to create one. O_o

> Your other (now solved) issue with wireless -
Based on info on this page : [http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43](http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43)
..the device in question (BCM4312) works with both the proprietary  driver you installed (wl) and the native one (b43). However, it is  recommended to use the native one (b43) wherever possible as it  'usually' delivers better performance.

It needs a proprietary firmware to work and that's the reason why it  can't work unless you manually install it. Fortunately, installing it is  as easy as installing the "linux-firmware-nonfree" package :
 	Code:
 	
sudo apt-get install linux-firmware-nonfree 
Or, if the system has no internet connection, download it manually from [here]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/precise/all/linux-firmware-nonfree/download") > copy to the Ubuntu system > double-click to install.

But, as you may also agree, "don't fix it if it ain't broken !", lol !

If you wish or need to try the b43 driver for the device (in case the wl  driver performs poorly), you will need to purge the proprietary driver -
 	Code:
 	
sudo apt-get purge bcmwl-kernel-source broadcom-sta-common broadcom-sta-source 
..before or after installing the linux-firmware-nonfree package.

Ohh Thank you!  That's great to know for future reference. 
You rock, many thanks for taking your time to enlighten me! :D 

...and on a positive note: I did the same procedure tonight on another laptop (HP G62)- Dual boot 13.04 with Win7, 
and it went without a hitch like nomal.  Gave me the "Install alongside win 7" option and it all went smoothly. :) <3

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-06-25
> **Rasa1111 said:**
> But that time it did not, and it warned me about there beiing no swap partition, and then asked if I wanted to proceed anyway. 
But it didnt ask if I wanted it to create one. O_o

That warning is just to let you know that existence of a 'ready-to-use' swap partition *may* enhance the installation speed in case you don't have enough RAM to keep up with the slide shows and installation simultaneously. Since at the beginning of the installation, you don't have a swap file either, so installer doesn't have it as an alternative. But after installation, it should be there.

Although it seems that the installer in this respect is a bit immature, maybe even foolish, since a 3GB RAM is more than plenty for the installation IMO. I don't think it will even touch the swap with so much RAM in hand.

As for the partitioning stuff, I think it could be the "max primary partitions are limited to 4" issue as already pointed out by Mark Phelps. But since you have wiped out windows now, I don't think it is or will be an issue anymore. If you still have doubts, please post -
```
sudo fdisk -l
```
..from the lappy on which you are having problems creating swap partition.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2013-06-25
ahh thanks my friend. :)  
Is People like you who keep me coming back here. :) 

I have one more question on an issue Ive never run into before..

On this HP G62 that i just installed 13.04 on, alongside win7..
I noticed this morning that on the Ubuntu side..  All seems to run normally until I try to play music or video. 
Music I get no sound,  and every video I try to play seems to run in fast forward... also with no sound. :?

What's going on, any clue? 


I apologive for bringing more issues to the thread than it was intended for. 

Thanks. :)

edit: Got sound working...
edit 2: Got videos working. :) Yay~!  :D

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-06-26
> **Rasa1111 said:**
> edit: Got sound working...
edit 2: Got videos working. :) Yay~!  :D

Yay !!
*(especially since I had no clues about either issues anyway :P)*

---

