---
title: "11.10 2Q's--1) When minimize open file, where does it go? 2) Add apps to upper panel"
date: 2012-01-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by swarup on 2012-01-06
1) When I minimize an open file in unity (11.10), it drives me crazy I can't locate it again unless I again click on the icon to open the file. Perhaps this because I am using a netbook and the bottom panel is not fitting on the screen? It is a big problem-- if I have five apps or files open, I can't shuttle between one and the other due to lack of their appearing along a bottom panel.

2) Is there an upper panel? In Gnome I used to like adding apps to the upper panel which I use alot. What is the facility for this in unity? Is the only way to add launchers for each app to the side panel?

---

### Post by kimda on 2012-01-07
1. To view all the opened applications/files press Windowskey + w 
Switching between applications/files press alt + tab 

more unity shortcuts and a wallpaper with all the shortcuts:
[Unity shortcuts]("http://www.squidoo.com/linux-tips-and-tricks#module151915363")

2. Adding a shortcut to the sidepanel (launcher) is easy. Open the applicaation you want to add toi the sidepanel.. If you go with your mouse to the sidepanel you see the icon. Right click on the application and select keep in launcher. Now its added to the launcher.

There is no top panel like in Gnome 2. Every program is either started with the launcher or the dash (open dash with windows key or click on the ubuntu logo in the top left corner of the launcher)

---

### Post by swarup on 2012-01-07
I see, ok. So I guess then that there is no panel at the bottom where all your open apps/files are arrayed and can be clicked on to maximize again...

Ok, thank you for the info! I will experiment with what you have taught me.

---

