---
title: "8.04  sound recorder does not open"
date: 2009-01-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wetinwales on 2009-01-18
Sound Recorder does not (and never has) open. I have re-installed but no good. All I get is a small window with..

*Your audio capture settings are invalid. Please correct them in the Multimedia settings.*

Where can *Multimedia settings* be found? There's nothing in 'Help'

'sox' seems to be installed. The Swiss Army Knife etc etc..

Thanks
Wetinwales

---

### Post by stderr on 2009-01-18
Have you got audio?

It may be referring to

System -> Preferences -> Multimedia Systems Selector (the first tab of which really seems to do the same as System -> Preferences -> Sound)

Perhaps setting input and output to ALSA may help. I still struggle with Pulseaudio, although many others have no issues with it.

---

### Post by wetinwales on 2009-01-18
Hi. Tried using Quick reply and it didn't seem to work. Try again.

Yes playback audio is excellent. 'Sound Settings' are all on Autodetect... _except for 'Sound Capture'_ which is set to VIA 8235. It's test button renders the message...

*gconfaudiosrc ! audioconvert ! audioresample ! gconfaudiosink profile=chat: Could not open audio device for recording. Device is being used by another application.*

Hey! theres no other application running!

Other drop down options for Sound capture render no results at all.

I am using a known microphone in the motherboard input (mini jack)

Thanks
Daf

---

### Post by stderr on 2009-01-18
Yeah that message is pretty common. I normally find it's Virtualbox, or Firefox, that's hogging the soundcard. Rebooting normally clears it if you can't find the offender. I occasionally kill Pulseaudio as it's interfering and I'm running ALSA.

I don't know why you don't get any other options under sound capture. 

And I'm not the most knowledgeable over audio setups...

Could you post the output of 

```
aplay -l
```and```
arecord -l
```

---

### Post by wetinwales on 2009-01-18
As requested.

user@home:~$ aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: V8235 [VIA 8235], device 0: VIA 8235 [VIA 8235]
  Subdevices: 4/4
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
  Subdevice #1: subdevice #1
  Subdevice #2: subdevice #2
  Subdevice #3: subdevice #3
card 0: V8235 [VIA 8235], device 1: VIA 8235 [VIA 8235]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
user@home:~$ arecord -l
**** List of CAPTURE Hardware Devices ****
card 0: V8235 [VIA 8235], device 0: VIA 8235 [VIA 8235]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: V8235 [VIA 8235], device 1: VIA 8235 [VIA 8235]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

Opera and Gimp were running when I tried. Except of course that I was trying to activate Ekiga so that too would have been trying to access sound capture facilities?

Thanks for your help
Daf

---

### Post by stderr on 2009-01-18
Hmm. Well... running out of ideas here...

Yeah, Ekiga was probably guilty there, and Opera maybe too.

I just don't understand why you don't have any other options under sound capture. To verify I'm understanding correctly: in System->Preferences->Sound, under Sound Capture, it's set to VIA8235, and in the dropdown, do you get no other options? Or is it that you've tried the other options and you still get the same error?

Also could you post the output of

```
lsmod | grep snd
```

should rule out your kernel modules.

---

### Post by wetinwales on 2009-01-18
Many thanks for your interest.
Here are results requested:-

user@home:~$ lsmod | grep snd
snd_usb_audio          83936  0 
snd_usb_lib            18432  1 snd_usb_audio
snd_hwdep              10500  1 snd_usb_audio
snd_via82xx            29464  5 
gameport               16008  1 snd_via82xx
snd_ac97_codec        101028  1 snd_via82xx
ac97_bus                3072  1 snd_ac97_codec
snd_pcm_oss            42144  0 
snd_mixer_oss          17920  1 snd_pcm_oss
snd_pcm                78596  6 snd_usb_audio,snd_via82xx,snd_ac97_codec,snd_pcm_oss
snd_page_alloc         11400  2 snd_via82xx,snd_pcm
snd_mpu401_uart         9728  1 snd_via82xx
snd_seq_dummy           4868  0 
snd_seq_oss            35584  0 
snd_seq_midi            9376  0 
snd_rawmidi            25760  3 snd_usb_lib,snd_mpu401_uart,snd_seq_midi
snd_seq_midi_event      8320  2 snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi
snd_seq                54224  6 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi,snd_seq_midi_event
snd_timer              24836  2 snd_pcm,snd_seq
snd_seq_device          9612  5 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq
snd                    56996  23 snd_usb_audio,snd_usb_lib,snd_hwdep,snd_via82xx,snd_ac97_codec,snd_pcm_oss,snd_mixer_oss,snd_pcm,snd_mpu401_uart,snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq,snd_timer,snd_seq_device
soundcore               8800  1 snd
usbcore               146412  8 aiptek,snd_usb_audio,snd_usb_lib,gspca,usbhid,ehci_hcd,uhci_hcd


To confirm.
In System>Prefs>Sound>Devices  the Audio Conferencing/Sound Capture is set to VIA 8235.
 
Now:..... Top option is VIA 8235. This returns the error message copied earlier.

Second down ...Also VIA 8235 but the test button here gives a little scrolling bar under 'Testingis ALSA' Click OK to finish. but NOTHING HAPPENS

Third down...ALSA - Advanced Linux Sound Architecture... ditto. ditto.

Fourth down... OSS Open Sound System.................... ditto. ditto.

Fifth down ... Pulse Audio Sound Server....gives... *gconfaudiosrc ! audioconvert ! audioresample ! gconfaudiosink profile=chat: Failed to connect stream: Invalid argument*

Sixth down ... Test Sound...............................above ditto. above ditto.

Last option... Silence .................................above dittos

All plyback test buttons give out a clean 'tone'


The one remaining issue I don't get is that Sound Recorder when (not) opening gives:- *Your audio capture settings are invalid. Please correct them in the Multimedia settings.*

Where do I find "Multimedia Settings" ? Theyre not in Preferences or Admin.

Hope this helps and thanks for your time.
Daf

---

