---
title: "11.10 Brightness issues."
date: 2011-10-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by hunter99507 on 2011-10-14
I have had so many issues today of trying to fix 11.10, I have fixed most of them but 2 of them i have no idea how to fix.  11.04 worked just fine but this doesnt.  

Everytime I restart my computer it dims to the lowest setting. I go into the screen option and change the slider to not dim, but ,again, after i restart it dims again. How do I make it save that setting?

Also none of my compiz settings are saving either. Every time I restart my settings go away. I have scale and workplace switcher settings that don't hold, also I used Ubuntu tweak and those settings don't hold either. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by sadaruwan12 on 2011-10-14
This might not be the perfect answer but what I think is best is to do a clean install and continue from there.

---

### Post by hunter99507 on 2011-10-14
Thanks for the advice but I did do a clean install. Infact i thought the first installation went bad so i did a second clean install and that still didnt work.

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-10-14
What are your system specs?

---

### Post by sadaruwan12 on 2011-10-14
> **hunter99507 said:**
> Thanks for the advice but I did do a clean install. Infact i thought the first installation went bad so i did a second clean install and that still didnt work.

Wow... Thats bad ok let us dig in and see what's wrong.

Give your PC specs to make it little easier.

Is your screen resolution is at the optimal setting or is some thing in the middle ?

---

### Post by hunter99507 on 2011-10-14
Well the brightness always reverts to its lowest setting when I restart.  I would like it at its highest setting. I'm no sure why this is happening because I've used every version of Ubuntu since 10.04. 

My computer specs are
Acer aspire 6930G
4gb ram
Core 2 duo processor
Nvidia gs 9600m (512m of ram)

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-10-14
install nvidia-tools

---

### Post by SE7EN-LOCSTA on 2011-10-14
You might want to give this a try, no guarantee it does anything for you though.

When you start, edit the /etc/rc.local and add before exit 0:
setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=00

this 'might' set your brightness to max when grub loads it.

you could also try

Edit /etc/default/grub, edit the line GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT:
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT = "quiet splash acpi_os= "

[there is a space after the =]  this is the one that seems to work the best for aspire backlight issues, although  'acpi_os=linux' may work for you.

---

### Post by hunter99507 on 2011-10-14
I tried both of those suggestions in the post above and they still didnt work. Any other suggesstions?

Also it seems like my compiz settings are not being "activated" either.  What i mean by that is after restart my computer, the compiz settings dont work (expo, scale ect..) So i open up the settings manager what the check box tell me their enabled. Well i have to uncheck it and recheck it again for them to work.

Other than the brightness issue and the compiz issue it seems to be working

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2011-10-14
Hi

Open a terminal and type

```
sudo bash -c "echo 5 > /sys/class/backlight/*/brightness"
```Enter your password. It will not be echoed to the screen.

Does this change your brightness. If so type this to change it back.

```
sudo bash -c "echo 9 > /sys/class/backlight/*/brightness"
```If it works then maybe you can add it to a startup script (root without sudo).

Kind regards

---

### Post by hunter99507 on 2011-10-14
i tried this and it does work either. Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by SE7EN-LOCSTA on 2011-10-14
"acpi_osi=Linux" "acpi_backlight=vendor"

you can try either of those, or both together in the grub2 boot parameters

---

### Post by hunter99507 on 2011-10-14
How do i go about making those changes that you said?

---

### Post by SE7EN-LOCSTA on 2011-10-14
Edit /etc/default/grub, edit the line GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT:
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT = "quiet splash XXXXXXXXX"


XXXXXXXX being the option(s) you choose to try.

you can also just type it in from the grub menu by (i believe) pushing 'e' on the OS you choose to boot. scroll to a new line, then type in the option.

---

### Post by bhupsi on 2011-10-15
You are lucky.  Here is the list of my bugs after upgrading yesterday.

The mouse locks up randomly.
When I restart/shutdown I go to a Ubuntu screen, the dots blink and my system hangs.
If I have a window on top of another window I can't get the window below to come to the front again unless I minimize/close the window that is on top of it.  
I autohide the Unity bar (it is so freakin big) sometimes it won't unhide.

It also sucks that some of the things I ran that had some gnome dependencies are now completely broke. 

This "upgrade" also completely reset most of my preferences on things, like nautilus and other apps.  So now I have to go back and reset everything to the way I want it.  grrrrr.

For me this is the worst upgrade ever.

I will say that the graphics are noticeably better.

---

### Post by tigerchan on 2011-10-15
It seems to be a reported bug: "screen brightness adjustment keys incorrectly reset brightness to 100% after login" 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upower/+bug/840707]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upower/+bug/840707")

---

### Post by ArnabDas on 2011-10-16
i too have brightness control probs in my sony vaio Y (VPCYA15fg)
Specs:
Intel core i3-380um 1.33ghz
2gb ram
intel GMA 3000
volume controls are working but brightness control only shows the bubble , but dere is no change in screen brightnness

---

### Post by Torquadon on 2011-11-14
HP Envy 17, buttons for brightness works fine, but brightness resets every time I reboot.

---

### Post by billwww on 2011-11-16
I too have the same problem on an hp dm3 laptop with AMD dual core processor. The brightness controls work but the brightness resets to the dimmest setting when I reboot. A fix for an earlier release does not work on ubuntu 11.10.

---

### Post by SheaMan on 2011-11-16
:thought: is there a community document regarding monitor configuration? :smirk:

:smirk: Not my current priority, but the monitor connected to my buntu box has a higher resolution when I plug it into the windows gold box sitting next to it. A good support document about monitor support/configuration would be nice to review. I would do a search, but me and searching simply do *not* get along. Google is *not* my friend. I apparently *do*not* speak google.. :winK: ..I try.. :roll:

---

### Post by nusre on 2012-11-04
Hi there

If you have Acer Notebook, than try this, works well for me.

sudo gedit /etc/rc.local

echo 9 > /sys/class/backlight/acer-wmi/brightness
sleep 10
echo 9 > /sys/class/backlight/acer-wmi/brightness
exit 0

I have a Acer Aspire 6930g and try 100 soulution since 11.04, but paste the code above in rc.local solve my problem.

Ubuntu 12.04

---

