---
title: "14.04 wubi Install"
date: 2014-05-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dcb5739 on 2014-05-04
Is there a way to do a 14.04 Install inside of windows like I was able to do with 12.04 using the wubi . I would like to run it at full speed before partitioning the hard drive. Running from the cd doesnt seem to be a fair test

---

### Post by radwanski-michal-a on 2014-05-04
However it won't resolve your problem, I guarantee you that a Wubi performance test is the same reliable as that on LiveCD.

---

### Post by dcb5739 on 2014-05-04
12.04 ran great as a wubi install, dont see the option to do it on the 14.04 that i burnt to dvd

---

### Post by David D. on 2014-05-04
WUBI has been abandonded, which is why you do not see the option in 14.04.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2014-05-04
There is no more wubi on the last few releases. Wubi is the thing of the past now.

---

### Post by radwanski-michal-a on 2014-05-04
Yes, ther is Wubi for Ubuntu 14.04 and you'll find it on Official Ubuntu iso file. If you want, read this [http://askubuntu.com/questions/449486/windows-installer-for-ubuntu-14-04-lts](http://askubuntu.com/questions/449486/windows-installer-for-ubuntu-14-04-lts)

---

### Post by radwanski-michal-a on 2014-05-04
> **David D. said:**
> WUBI has been abandonded, which is why you do not see the option in 14.04.

> **sammiev said:**
> There is no more wubi on the last few releases. Wubi is the thing of the past now.

The only release without Wubi was, currently unstpported 13.04. Windows 8 is also not supported. But I must agree, Wubi should be burnt on a stack :p

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-05
No, wubi is NOT supported any more.  The installation option may exists, there may be other options for it, but it is NOT supported for Ubuntu any more.  This started prior to 14.04, so it's not just a 14.04 thing.  There are MA?NY threads in the forum about this and in everyone you will find a forum moderator or other expect has posted that it is no longer supported.  Way to install it?  perhaps.  Supported in Ubuntu? NO.

I may be incorrect in this:  I *think* it is no longer supported because of the UEFI/EFI things, so, for example, if you are using Windows 8 (it MUST be UEFI/EFI) you can't do wubi.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-05-05
you can run it from USB stick instead of CD. even from USB it's not a fair test since it is loaded into ram and if you have enough ram it will be a lot faster than after the install :)

anyway you should start preparing for partitioning. if oyu still want to have it all inside windows then try virtualbox (but you need a good PC for that)

---

