---
title: "11.10 brightness going crazy on samsung n150 plus"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tastefuldeath on 2011-10-16
I had the same problem with 11.04 but I fix it with alt-tab and it only happens when I leave my netbook to stand by. After upgrading to 11.10, brightness just goes up and done when its unplugged. Halp. It's driving me crazy.

Samsung tools won't fix either

Another update. Well. Turns out they (samsung tools) weren't updated. Kinda fixed now but it still won't let me add brightness in small doses.

..Or not. It still goes haywire sometime but it goes away unlike earlier when I couldn't stop it. :/

Restart after update fixed it. Sorry for panicking. The flickering screen hurt my brains . @_@

---

### Post by borillionstar on 2011-10-18
Do you mind explaining exactly how you solved the issue? What did you install?

Thanks

---

### Post by Summerb on 2011-10-18
This problem is not only in samsung notebook but also in HP 6735b.
I have HP 6735b model.
I installed Ubuntu 11.10 and Windows Vista for dual booting.

The screen brightness is good on the window vista.
but ubuntu seems to have a bug with screen brightness.
when i reboot for ubuntu.
the screen was change to dim.
I can hardly see the screen.
Too dark To See the screen of ubuntu.
when i use ubuntu 11.04, I met same problem.
but i think the developer didn't get what is this problem exactly.

I try to find out any help message .
I'v found a message on ubuntu homepage.
but that is a manual for how to setup Power management environment.
this problem is another problem i believe.
There are many posts about it.
How can i fix it?

I'm waiting for new update of this bugs.
I wish to know How can i notice this problem to the developer of ubuntu

---

### Post by rossmurray on 2011-10-18
Having this same issue on an NC10 running 11.10 The 6 hour battery on this baby is indispensable. 

Had planned this to be working for the Occupy London village but the issue is rendering the machine useless. Would truly appreciate any insight to a correction on this brightness issue. Had major trouble overnight with media tent now falling apart due to rainfall (St Paul's is a big building.. the runoff from the roof has to somewhere I guess lol) #occupylsx

Thanks for reading and and huge thankyou for all those that contribute their time and energy into keeping the Linux project a thriving community through Ubuntu.

---

### Post by fiddlefye on 2011-10-18
I updated my HP tc 4200 laptop to 11.10 and was immediately impressed (once I found where a few things had vanished to) how much faster and cleaner it runs. Then I encountered the screen brightness bug. The previous version of Ubuntu also had the odd flash of this, but the new one is constant. I keep having to go into Screen and mess with the level and mostly this works..... 

I do hope there is a fix coming. Anyone have any other ways to deal with it?

I'm wondering if there is any point to looking for a firmware update of some sort for the laptop?

---

### Post by rossmurray on 2011-11-13
Thanks to tastefuldeath for locating the answer!!! Much appreciated matey! :KS

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1792877]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1792877")

And be sure to put a space in after the 'quiet splash'

Hope it works for you lot too! :-D

---

### Post by tastefuldeath on 2011-11-13
Sorry, haven't really checked this for a long time. 

The link posted by rossmurray was a fix/work-around for the battery drain thing prevalent on laptop and netbooks. Here's another link for the fix: [http://www.webupd8.org/2011/06/linux-kernel-power-issue-fix.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/06/linux-kernel-power-issue-fix.html)

For the brightness itself, I just installed voria ppa for samsung netbooks/laptops. It's the thing that allows you to change your brightness levels using the Fn + other keys: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/38845/samsung-netbook-n150plus-screen-brightness-not-working](http://askubuntu.com/questions/38845/samsung-netbook-n150plus-screen-brightness-not-working)

When I upgraded to 11.10, I had rossmurray's problem where the screen brightness goes out of control, it might have triggered epilepsy. Anyways, the voria samsung ppa fixed my issue. I didn't think the battery drain issue was linked with the screen going crazy but since it fixed rossmurray's problems, there might be some link between those. Hope that clears it up because lack of sleep accidentally made me send the battery drain fix to him, when I meant to send the voria ppa link, hehe.

---

### Post by rossmurray on 2011-11-13
> **tastefuldeath said:**
>  because lack of sleep accidentally made me send the battery drain fix to him, when I meant to send the voria ppa link, hehe.

OH man.. classic! rofl

Will just do a reboot to make sure it keeps the fix


UPDATE: yeah it works even after the reboot. Thanks for your input tastefuldeath and happy dreams!

---

