---
title: "Nvidia GeFroce 5200 xorg.conf problem Ubuntu Hardy"
date: 2010-01-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by agelos on 2010-01-21
Hello 
 I've been using ubuntu Hardy for some time now but i am still a newbie(forgive me for that). a while ago while trying to fix something with my keyboard layout i followed another forums advice  and ended up using the[SIZE=3]
 **sudo  dpkg-reconfigure localepurge**
 [/SIZE]command in order to configured the localpurge(that didn't go  really well)and ended with not being able to pick another layout from the System-Preferences-keyboard option.that wasn't the worst thing to happen, my Nvidia also wasn't working, i installed the drivers again and i am up to the point where my computer has Nvidia enabled under the Hardware Drivers option(System-Administrator-HardwareDrivers)
and my resolution is stuck at 800x600.
 I've allready installed the Nvidia X Server Setting Option with the 
**[SIZE=3]sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings[/SIZE]** 
but i get the error:
[I]You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. 
Please edit your Xconfiguration file(just run nvidia-
xconfig as root),and restart the X server.[/I]

When i run
*** sudo nvidia-xconfig***
i get:

Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".
Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

Doing just that and restarting the X server (i do that using the ctl-alt-Backspace) doesn't really do much.


My new xorg.conf file looks like that:



# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "screen1" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg "
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # 
    Identifier     "monitor1"
    Gamma           1
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # 
    Identifier     "monitor2"
    Gamma           1
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"

    # 
    Identifier     "device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "Intel"
    BoardName      "Intel 865"
    BusID          "PCI:0:2:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"

    # 
    Identifier     "device2"
    Driver         "nv"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA"
    BoardName      "NVIDIA GeForce FX (generic)"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Modes      "800x600"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

    # 
    Identifier     "screen1"
    Device         "device1"
    Monitor        "monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

    # 
    Identifier     "screen2"
    Device         "device2"
    Monitor        "monitor2"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

i can see that the written resolution on the file is 800x600 but don't know how to tweek that,, please help me with that and also if someone knows how
to get back more languages with my Keyboard layout,

thanks in advance and forgive my ignorance,cheers.

---

### Post by stoogiebuncho on 2010-01-24
Try this.

First, make a backup of your xorg.conf file in case this doesn't work.

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```

Now the next thing that you want to do is find the refresh rates for the resolution that you want to use.  You can find these using the gtf command.  For instance, if I wanted to have a resolution of 1024x768 with a refresh of 85, I would type this in the terminal:
```
gtf 1024 768 85
```
On my machine, this command returns the following information (yours may be different):
```
# 1024x768 @ 85.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 68.60 kHz; pclk: 94.39 MHz
  Modeline "1024x768_85.00"  94.39  1024 1088 1200 1376  768 769 772 807  -HSync +Vsync

```

Keep that open because you will need it.

Next, open up your xorg.conf file.

```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

There are a few changes you need to make.  First, the "monitor" section.  Add the line from your gtf output to this section.  It will end up looking something like this:
```
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
Modeline "1024x768_85.00"  94.39  1024 1088 1200 1376  768 769 772 807  -HSync +Vsync
Option "PreferredMode" "1024x768_85.00"
EndSection
```
You'll notice that in addition to adding the modeline, I added a preferred mode option as well.

Next, the "Screen" section.  You'll want to add a the new option there, too.  It should look like this:
```
Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Configured Video Device"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Modes "1024x768" "800x600"
EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Save, and restart.

If this seriously screws anything up, you can restore your backup xorg.conf with the following command:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Good luck.

---

### Post by pablo180 on 2010-01-24
Have you tried navigating to the folder:

```
/etc/X11
```

And checking to see if there are any backups from before you made the alterations?

I did something similar a while back when trying to set my laptop up to display on another monitor. Afterwards the resolution wouldn't go above 800x600 no matter what I did. 

I simply pressed ALT+F2 and entered:

```
gksudo nautilus
```

Navigated to the above folder and found about 20 xorg.conf files named xorg.conf.1, xorg.conf.2 etc. I simply renamed my xorg.conf file xorg.conf.old and changed one of the recent others dated from before the mess up, to xorg.conf. Then restarted and everything righted itself.

---

### Post by agelos on 2010-01-25
> **stoogiebuncho said:**
> Try this.

First, make a backup of your xorg.conf file in case this doesn't work.

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```Now the next thing that you want to do is find the refresh rates for the resolution that you want to use.  You can find these using the gtf command.  For instance, if I wanted to have a resolution of 1024x768 with a refresh of 85, I would type this in the terminal:
```
gtf 1024 768 85
```On my machine, this command returns the following information (yours may be different):
```
# 1024x768 @ 85.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 68.60 kHz; pclk: 94.39 MHz
  Modeline "1024x768_85.00"  94.39  1024 1088 1200 1376  768 769 772 807  -HSync +Vsync

```Keep that open because you will need it.

Next, open up your xorg.conf file.

```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```There are a few changes you need to make.  First, the "monitor" section.  Add the line from your gtf output to this section.  It will end up looking something like this:
```
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
Modeline "1024x768_85.00"  94.39  1024 1088 1200 1376  768 769 772 807  -HSync +Vsync
Option "PreferredMode" "1024x768_85.00"
EndSection
```You'll notice that in addition to adding the modeline, I added a preferred mode option as well.

Next, the "Screen" section.  You'll want to add a the new option there, too.  It should look like this:
```
Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Configured Video Device"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Modes "1024x768" "800x600"
EndSubSection
EndSection
```Save, and restart.

If this seriously screws anything up, you can restore your backup xorg.conf with the following command:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```Good luck.


hello and thanks for your replies,
 well since i wrote this thread i formatted clean my computer as i had  it dual boot with win xp and just decided i don't want to use them anymore and upgraded at the ubuntu 8.10.
 after install the fresh copy and the nvidia driver from the** [SIZE=2]system-administrator-hardware driver [/SIZE]**[SIZE=2][SIZE=1]
option i had the same and even worst,my resolution was stuck at 640[/SIZE][/SIZE]x480 and refresh rate at 50,
then i  just followed what you advised me and finally some progress,i did exactly what you wrote step by step and i manage to get 800x600 with 60 refresh rate,thats a really good result as before it was horrible to work on,

after the format the xorg.conf file was only 10 lines long.
i hoped that after the format and the installation of the drivers it would work automatically.
 
 this is my new xorg.conf with the changes :

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
Modeline "1024x768_85.00"  94.39  1024 1088 1200 1376  768 769 772 807  -HSync +Vsync
Option "PreferredMode" "1024x768_85.00"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
        DefaultDepth 24   
        SubSection "Display"
        Modes "1024x768" "800x600"
EndSubSection
EndSection


also when i did the 
gtf 1024 768 85i had exactly the same result.

i am pretty sure it's missing something as i cannot see anything about  any nvidia driver and they are definitely activated under hardware drivers. 

thanks for your first reply and i would appreciate if you could spent a little more time with a helpless newbie,cheers.

---

### Post by stoogiebuncho on 2010-01-25
> well since i wrote this thread i formatted clean my computer as i had it dual boot with win xp and just decided i don't want to use them anymore and upgraded at the ubuntu 8.10.

I hate to tell you this after you just went through the work of upgrading, but 8.10 will only be supported until October of this year.  After that you will not receive any security updates.

Ubuntu 8.04 is a Long Term Support release, so it will be supported until April, 2011.  (you can learn more about release cycles [here]("http://www.ubuntu.com/products/ubuntu/release-cycle")).

I recommend that you install the latest version of Ubuntu (9.10).  I have a Nvidia card and I had troubles with resolutions in 8.10, but everything is working great for me in 9.10.

You can either do a fresh install by downloading the .iso from [here]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download"), or you can upgrade.  Be warned, though - you'll have to upgrade first to 9.04 and then to 9.10, so it will probably be easier and faster to do a fresh install.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-25
Hallo.
I tend to agree with stoogiebuncho.
If you have a fresh install, you don't have much to lose, and your chances are good that the problem will be solved with a newer version.

---

### Post by agelos on 2010-01-25
i first tried to install the 9.10 with a bootable usb key but it was giving me long  lines of code with an
[SIZE=2]**error_code+x73/0x80**[/SIZE]  in the end.
got no idea whats that,checked the md5sum for the iso and it wasnt corrupted,
anyway i''l try to download a new iso and go through the installation process again.

should i follow the same steps for the xorg.conf with the 9.10 installation?  

thanks again,

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-25
When you get 9.10 installed, you should just have to enable the proprietary driver from system> administration> hardware drivers and then do
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

In fact, shortly after you boot into the new installation, you should automatically get a message saying that you can install a proprietary driver.

---

### Post by spcwingo on 2010-01-25
I would suggest trying envyng.  I never could get the nVidia driver in "Hardware Drivers" to work correctly, but it works PERFECTLY after installing with envyng.  You can install envyng with this command:

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-core
```

If you would also like a nice GUI with it use this command instead:

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-gtk
```

Just remember to uninstall the other driver that you installed through "Hardware Drivers" before installing through envyng.  ;)

If you would like to install just the command line version of envyng and you need a little help using it...just let me know.

---

### Post by stoogiebuncho on 2010-01-25
> **agelos said:**
> should i follow the same steps for the xorg.conf with the 9.10 installation?

You probably won't need to.  9.10 doesn't use the xorg.conf file nearly as heavily as earlier versions of Ubuntu did.  With my Nvidia card, all I had to do was enable the proprietary driver and everything worked.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-26
> **stoogiebuncho said:**
> You probably won't need to.  9.10 doesn't use the xorg.conf file nearly as heavily as earlier versions of Ubuntu did.  With my Nvidia card, all I had to do was enable the proprietary driver and everything worked.

True. A fresh install may not even have an xorg.cong file. I think the nVidia settings tool nearly always writes one, but there is not much in it.

---

### Post by agelos on 2010-01-27
> **spcwingo said:**
> I would suggest trying envyng.  I never could get the nVidia driver in "Hardware Drivers" to work correctly, but it works PERFECTLY after installing with envyng.  You can install envyng with this command:

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-core
```If you would also like a nice GUI with it use this command instead:

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-gtk
```Just remember to uninstall the other driver that you installed through "Hardware Drivers" before installing through envyng.  ;)

If you would like to install just the command line version of envyng and you need a little help using it...just let me know.

 i tried doing that but after i restarted the system my resolution was stuck down t o 640x480,anyway i restored the backed up xorg.conf and i'm back where i started from.it's all good as i'm allready  in the process of upgrading ,  i'm looking forward an easier configured OS .

 thank you all for your replies and if i have the same problem with 9.10(hopefully not) i'll let you know cheers.

---

