---
title: "12.04 flash"
date: 2012-04-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-20
I know 12.04 is still in beta, but I thought it must be getting very close considering the release date.  So I downloaded and installed - everything seems fine so far.

There is, however, an on-going problem that is NOT ubuntu's but I'm hoping someone can help with.  Adobe Flash still gives me the problem of showing "this video is no longer available" on a lot of videos, particularly those from Yahoo.  Unlike the same problem when I was using 11.10, now it doesn't even play the video in the background anyway.

I uninstalled Flash, and installed the alternative LightSpark from the software center.  Now when I go to a video online with Firefox it just comes up and says I need to install Flash.  I checked plugins in Firefox and nothing shows there at all, when I would have expected LightSpark to be there.

So, has anyone been able to get any type of Flash player to work in Firefox in 12.04, particularly if you try to watch a Yahoo video?  I just tried again with their sample of "Chimpanzees" but nothing.

Thanks in advance!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2012-04-20
Tried with chrome? It have builtin flash. See if it also happens chrome.

---

### Post by jefsview on 2012-04-20
The furrent and last Adobe Flash for Linux has been problematic for many users, especially if you use Nvidia drivers; mostly what's been described as the Smurf-effect, and inversion of color due to graphics acceleration. Untick graphics acceleration in the settings from the right-click menu fixes it.

If you're looking for an alternative, Gnash is better than Lightspark at this stage, but isn't as powerful as regular Flash. But it works. 

I hope this helps.

-- Jeff

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-04-20
Just patience @anewguy . Patience until HTML5 take effect. I patiently too. 
Try 1-2 things for now.. 
1) Open flash settings (right click on video) and disable "Hardware acceleration" 
or
2) Add-on Flash-aid maybe help you.Add it to your Firefox and  Install adobeflash-plugin beta
or 
3) Downgrade your flash player. Download older flash from adobe's site and install. (remember to 'kept back' newer flash-player on future update)

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-04-20
I've been running 12.04 for a while now and flash works perfectly for me.

I'm using the 64-bit version from the repositories with Intel graphics and it's worked out of the box.

I've just tried Yahoo videos and no problems there either.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-20
Just installed Chrome 64-bit for Ubuntu.  If I click on the Chipanzee trailer on Yahoo's page the video window eventually says install Adobe Flash. 

I will try gnash and see what happens, but it didn't work in 11.10 in terms of solving the problem either.

Again, I want to emphasize to anyone else reading this thread this is *NOT* an Ubuntu problem!

Thanks for the help!  I'll try some more and see what happens.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-20
I've used nVidia cards for quite some time, so perhaps that is the root of the problem.  I tried Gnash, and again it comes up saying I need to install Adobe Flash.  I checked in Firefox plug-ins, and again nothing shows there.  Somehow neither LightSpark or Gnash get added to the Firefox plug-ins, so of course it won't work. 

BTW - I've had plenty of patience with this - I've been having this problem since 11.04 with no solution.  I have at least 1 outstanding thread on this with no solutions.  I've also checked previous versions on the Adobe site, but prior to version 11 there is no Debian package.

I'll delete Gnash and try flash-aid again - but note that has never solved this problem either.  I'll try to disable accelaration - but note that has never solved the problem either.

Thanks!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by ortermagic on 2012-04-20
Have a look at this thread...It helped me!


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1948626&highlight=i+have+tried+everything+i+can+think+of+but+flash+still+won%27t+work](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1948626&highlight=i+have+tried+everything+i+can+think+of+but+flash+still+won%27t+work)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-20
Just as has always been the case for me since 11.04, flash-aid doesn't help.  Hardware acceleration is not an option.  I updated the /etc/adobe/mms.cfg file to set the gpuvalidation to false and the hwdecode to false - same result.

In the thread posted by ortermagic above there are links to Adobe itself which indicates (1) harware acceleration is disabled due to the incompatibilities of many drivers, including both open source and from the vendor (2) no work-arounds available for their problem.

As I mentioned in my other threads about Flash, this mainly seems to be a problem when using Yahoo videos.  As an example, when you go to the chimpanzee trailer off the Yahoo main page, a video plays in a smaller box next to the main video window.  Right-clicking on the smaller video shows it is using Flash and is working.  The larger main video window continues to show the spinner until it eventually comes up with the video no longer available message.  I also mentioned in those other threads that I think this is a problem with a too-short time-out specified by Yahoo when calling the Flash player.  Considering the smaller, shorter video to the right of the main video screen in this example does play and does use Flash, it reinforces that idea.  I have found no setting to override the timeout specified by the web page's call to Flash.

Considering everything still fails as it always has for me, I have to assume that with Adobe dropping support for Linux (at least I know for sure for Fedora) that this will never be working for me.

With that in mind, can someone please tell me how to add Gnash or LightSpark to the Firefox plug-ins?

Dave ;)

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-04-20
Very odd that you are having problems.  Testing the Wubi installer ISO's I did an install of 11.10, installed the restricted extras as always and did the upgrade to 12.04.  Flash worked perfectly without an issue...  Silly flash!


404

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-04-20
```
mkdir ~/.mozilla/plugins
cp /usr/lib/adobe-flashplugin/libflashplayer.so ~/.mozilla/plugins/
sudo apt-get purge adobe-flashplugin adobe-flash-properties-gtk
```restart firefox
if line 2 fails don't run line 3 just yet
i suggest using flash video replacer to bypass the "smurfing" effect that happens on nvidia cards in flash

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-20
Yeah, this has been a real pain in my backside since 11.04.  I just installed synaptic and found there is a separate gnash package for Firefox as a plug-in.  I reinstalled Gnash and the Firefox plug-in, and guess what?  Yep - it doesn't show in the Firefox plug-ins!  So when I try to open a flash video I get the box telling me I need to install Adobe Flash.

Seems like I've gone around and around and around on this with no good result.  2 different systems - different motherboards, different processors (though both AMD), different video cards (though both nVidia based).  I can usually play flash videos just with Flash itself as long as it isn't a Yahoo video.  I'm also wondering if being on a DSL connection doesn't add to what I suspect is a time-out as mentioned before.

So, as with 11.04 and 11.10 (btw - all on the same DSL connection), I guess I have to say AAARRRGGGGHHHHHH!!!

I'm going to try loading 12.04 to my netbook, though I have to figure out the wireless driver first, and then going by our local library where the wireless net connections are fast and see if it makes any difference (of course the netbook doesn't use nVidia based graphics adapter though).

Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-20
> **pqwoerituytrueiwoq said:**
> ```
mkdir ~/.mozilla/plugins
cp /usr/lib/adobe-flashplugin/libflashplayer.so ~/.mozilla/plugins/
sudo apt-get purge adobe-flashplugin adobe-flash-properties-gtk
```restart firefox
if line 2 fails don't run line 3 just yet
i suggest using flash video replacer to bypass the "smurfing" effect that happens on nvidia cards in flash

Indeed line 2 fails because the file doesn't exist.

---

### Post by jefsview on 2012-04-20
I'm using 12.04 currently, and ventured over to Yahoo.movies to watch the Chimpanzee movie and everything plays fine. I even tried the Disney clip they had. 

Could it be that these are Quicktime videos and not Flash? 

-- Jeff

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-20
They come up in flash player, which means Yahoo must be calling the flash player off their page.  I also believe I already have QuickTime installed.

Are any of you who don't have problems:

[LIST]
[*]running an AMD FX 8120 eight-core
[*]running a nVidia GeForce 450 GTS using the recommended driver from Additional Drivers
[*]running from a Seagate 1.5TB drive
[*]- or - running off a Patriot 64GB SSD
[*]running on an MSI motherboard (my old computer that had the same problem was also an MSI board)- AMD-based
[*]had problems with flash since 11.04
[*]have flash working fine in Windows 7
[*]running on a DSL connection
[/LIST]

Just curious what could possibly be different with my system that can be making this happen.

It does work fine for most non-Yahoo videos.

Dave

---

### Post by jefsview on 2012-04-20
I'm using Xubuntu 12.04 on an HP Media Center TV PC, which is about 5 years old with an AMD 64X2 dual core. Just got a Nvidia 450 GTS Eco, using the latest and, apparently buggy 295.40 drivers, and upgraded my Ram. Used Chrome, but have Firefox; just used it as well without problems (the right click did reveal Flash, but it didn't have any smurfing going on).

I am using gecko-mediaplayer for everything not using Flash on the web, plus I have Quicktime install in various Winebottles for other apps.

Not certain why you're having problems. Sounds like you have a powerful system, which should be able to handle Unity or Gnome Shells 3D requirements plus whatever else.

-- Jeff

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-20
I would think my old PC, on which I had the same problem, was way more than what was needed - especially when it worked it Windows on that system as well.  It was an AMD 640 quad-core at 3.1ghz, MSI AMD-based motherboard,16gb memory, 250gb hard disk, nVidia video card (if I remember correctly it was a 550), MSI motherboard, 32-bit 11.04, 32-bit 11.10 and 64-bit 11.10.  Flash worked for everything except Yahoo videos also.

My current system is an MSI based motherboard, AMD FX 8120 eight-core at 3ghz, 16gb memory, 1.5TB hard disk, 64GB SSD, nVidia GeForce GTS 450 video card, 64-bit 11.10.  I dual-boot this system, and flash runs fine in Windows 7 on it.

Are you running a MSI motherboard?  Are you on DSL or broadband?

---

### Post by jefsview on 2012-04-20
It's an ECS motherboard (Nettle2 -****) with with the AMD 64X2 2.8 ghz processors, currently have 8 GB ram and a 7200rpm, 500GB Sata drive. Everything is original except for the recent additional memory,a power supply (now 4 years old),  and the Zotac 450 GTS Eco Nvidia card (I had the Nvidia 9600gt previously). 

Use a Wifi PCI card that connects to comcast cable, which I believe considered DSL.

Have you tried any other DE's that don't eat up all 3D graphics like LXDE or Xfce. Just trying to rule out hardware :)

Yeah, I'm running Xubuntu 64 bit. This machine was built for Vista and had 32bit installed originally. I work with 3D graphics programs and wanted to try out 64bit, since my hardward was capable, and that's how I began my Linux journey. Not duel-booting, just using Linux. Had no problems on other distros like Sabayon, Debian or Ubuntu flavors with anything aside from ram usage and getting my apps to work with Wine. Never a flash or online video problem (just with purchased Itunes vids, which sucks, but need to learn to live with it).

-- Jeff

-- Jeff

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-20
If it's Comcast cable, it's broadband.  DSL goes through the regular phone line.

---

### Post by westcoast01 on 2012-04-21
Hello Anewguy, sorry to hear of your trouble. I use nvidia gpu's, a 550ti on the Ubuntu 12.04 beta2 X64. If you are sure Adobe flash is correctly installed, (no offense) did you go to the software center and download the Ubuntu restricted extras ? (search for it) Other than that NikTH might have the best shot at getting things to work for you. Best of luck, let me know how it turns out. West.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-04-21
> **anewguy said:**
> Indeed line 2 fails because the file doesn't exist.
try this for line 2
[FONT=Courier New]cp /usr/lib/flashplugin-installer/libflashplayer.so ~/.mozilla/plugins/[/FONT]
if it does not work run [FONT=Courier New]
sudo apt-get install adobe-flashplugin[/FONT]

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-22
> **westcoast01 said:**
> Hello Anewguy, sorry to hear of your trouble. I use nvidia gpu's, a 550ti on the Ubuntu 12.04 beta2 X64. If you are sure Adobe flash is correctly installed, (no offense) did you go to the software center and download the Ubuntu restricted extras ? (search for it) Other than that NikTH might have the best shot at getting things to work for you. Best of luck, let me know how it turns out. West.

I've done that every time I try to delete and reload, including from the initial install.  Makes no difference.

I still think it's the DSL connection causing the Yahoo videos to time out on download.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-22
> **pqwoerituytrueiwoq said:**
> try this for line 2
[FONT=Courier New]cp /usr/lib/flashplugin-installer/libflashplayer.so ~/.mozilla/plugins/[/FONT]
if it does not work run [FONT=Courier New]
sudo apt-get install adobe-flashplugin[/FONT]

I've done this several times in the past as I have deleted/reloaded.  Did the same thing now.  As always, it makes no difference.

I still think it's the DSL connection causing the download from Yahoo to time out.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-22
I've had trouble getting 12.04 on my netbook - I think I must have been using a bad flash drive.  So, I burned it again and will be trying it in a few minutes.  I know that the video in the netbook is Intel, not nVidia, so I'll have to see.  I really do think it's the DSL.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2012-04-24
> **anewguy said:**
> Just installed Chrome 64-bit for Ubuntu.  If I click on the Chipanzee trailer on Yahoo's page the video window eventually says install Adobe Flash. 

I will try gnash and see what happens, but it didn't work in 11.10 in terms of solving the problem either.

Again, I want to emphasize to anyone else reading this thread this is *NOT* an Ubuntu problem!

Thanks for the help!  I'll try some more and see what happens.

Dave ;)

Do you have any ad-blocking add-on? Sometimes if the video ads are not allowed to run, the video itself doesn't show either.

BTW, Chrome only has a bundled plugin with the 32bit. If you are using a 64bit system, you could try chrome-browser-unstable, which comes with the new PepperFlash. 

Lightspark is unusable. Gnash seems to work only with YouTube.

Since you have tested many sources, I would run Flash-Aid again to make sure no left-over is in place.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-24
Fresh install of 12.04 on my netbook - allowed it to download additions as it installed and install 3rd party software.  Flash is there - this is a 32-bit system with Intel graphics - and guess what?  Yep, the same dang thing - first it comes up with the "Sorry, but this video is no longer available message" followed by the video playing in behind that.  It's not restricted by hardware, only that I'm running Linux.  So my bet is still on it being the DSL connection speed.  I'm going to try to make it to the library soon as they have open high-speed wireless there.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-06-08
Solved!  Indeed, it was timing out.  We went to Comcast broadband and videos are working fine now (at least so far!).

Thanks everyone!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by preserve on 2012-12-03
After my two step updgrade to Precise from Natty,  the Adobe flash player crashed in Firefox only for no apparent reason. I discovered a file in my home directory that was the culprit  - an old .asoundrc file. After renaming it .asoundrc.old, adobe-flashplugin (11.2.202.251) no longer crashed in Firefox. The error showed up while running "adobe-flash-properties-gtk" from a terminal.

---

