---
title: "16.04 How to wake a Suspending remote server?"
date: 2017-07-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bascter-main2 on 2017-07-19
Hello, a newbie here. I suspended my remote ubuntu 16.04 server via VNC for some reasons, and the screen turned to black. 
Then I unexpectedly found this server couldn't be woken up . So I tried to use SSH to connect to the server, but it showed "Connection timed out", so was VNC Viewer. 
And I also tried to use my another server which was in the same network segment to send a reboot command to this server via ssh, but it showed "No route to host". 
Unfortunately, my server provider said he couldn't help me physically reboot this server:(. I haven't use wakeonlan before, either(Now I don't know the exact MAC adress of my server). 
Now I have no idea to deal with it, and I'm becoming desperate... Is there any way to solve this problem? I hope it exists...

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2017-07-19
This is a remote server in a data centre?  They should have a monkey service to reboot your machine.

If it is your own machine, reboot it.

BTW, VNC is mostly a Windows thing.  On UNIX, VNC is almost always the wrong solution, since you can do pretty much anything with SSH.

---

### Post by bascter-main2 on 2017-07-19
Thanks for your rely, it's a remote server. But the question is the server provider lost the control of my server, so I have to solve it by myself. Now I have no idea about how to solve it...

---

### Post by Tadaen_Sylvermane on 2017-07-19
I would be re-evaluating my data center choices. They lost control? It's literally go in and reset the server. There is no way in without a manual intervention that I know of.

---

### Post by bascter-main2 on 2017-07-19
OK, so now I'm trying to do this, thank you.

---

