---
title: "11.04 - Can I change back to old desktop?"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by eshton123 on 2011-05-02
Hi!

I have just upgraded to the new Ubuntu 11.04 and despite what I think about the new desktop I wish to use the old one. Is it possible after the upgrade? Also, after the upgrade I cannot launch any older linux version so I cannot just switch back and do my work as I got used to it.

For any help, thanks very much in advance!

Aston

---

### Post by Logan7x3 on 2011-05-02
All you need to do is go to the bottom panel as you log in and change from, "*Ubuntu*" to, "Ubuntu Clasic"

That will change the look from unity to gnome!

Hope This Works!

---

### Post by Sam White on 2011-05-02
I have uninstalled Unity from Synaptic, and reinstalled GNOME. After that, I have set GNOME panel to run at startup. A few minor problems and glitches, but I'm working on getting these sorted out, and then I'll have the old desktop as I liked it.

I know, I could have used Ubuntu Classic at login, but that started playing up majorly.
.
Just a suggestion

---

### Post by eshton123 on 2011-05-02
> **Logan7x3 said:**
> All you need to do is go to the bottom panel as you log in and change from, "*Ubuntu*" to, "Ubuntu Clasic"

That will change the look from unity to gnome!

Hope This Works!

Niceeee, this did the trick. THANKS!

---

### Post by awatt on 2011-05-02
I don't know if this is related, but I followed Sam's advice, i.e. uninstalling Unity and reinstalling GNOME, and when I logged in, I had neither a top nor a bottom bar.

Any idea why that might be happening?

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2011-05-02
Installing the package "gnome" is a bad idea! From synaptic:

> The GNOME Desktop Environment, with extra components
 
This is the GNOME Desktop environment, an intuitive and attractive
desktop, with extra components.

This package depends on the standard distribution of the GNOME desktop
environment, plus a complete range of plugins and other applications
integrating with GNOME and Debian, providing the best possible
environment to date.

It's also version 2.30, the current version in Debian Squeeze. There are many conflicts and you have to install a load of crap:

> gstreamer0.10-gnomevfs will be removed
browser-plugin-gnash (version 0.8.9-1ubuntu1) will be installed
cheese (version 2.32.0-0ubuntu2) will be installed
cheese-common (version 2.32.0-0ubuntu2) will be installed
dasher (version 4.11-1ubuntu1) will be installed
dasher-data (version 4.11-1ubuntu1) will be installed
deskbar-applet (version 2.32.0-1ubuntu2) will be installed
ekiga (version 3.2.7-2ubuntu2) will be installed
epiphany-browser (version 2.30.6-1ubuntu5) will be installed
epiphany-browser-data (version 2.30.6-1ubuntu5) will be installed
epiphany-extensions (version 2.30.2-1ubuntu1) will be installed
freeglut3 (version 2.6.0-1ubuntu2) will be installed
gedit-plugins (version 2.30.0-1ubuntu1) will be installed
gimp (version 2.6.11-1ubuntu6) will be installed
gimp-data (version 2.6.11-1ubuntu6) will be installed
gir1.2-clutter-1.0 (version 1.6.14-0ubuntu3) will be installed
gir1.2-clutter-gtk-0.10 (version 0.10.8-1ubuntu1) will be installed
gir1.2-gnomegamessupport-1.0 (version 1:2.32.1-0ubuntu5) will be installed
gir1.2-gstreamer-0.10 (version 0.10.32-3ubuntu3) will be installed
gir1.2-json-glib-1.0 (version 0.12.2-0ubuntu1) will be installed
glchess (version 1:2.32.1-0ubuntu5) will be installed
glines (version 1:2.32.1-0ubuntu5) will be installed
gnash (version 0.8.9-1ubuntu1) will be installed
gnash-common (version 0.8.9-1ubuntu1) will be installed
gnect (version 1:2.32.1-0ubuntu5) will be installed
gnibbles (version 1:2.32.1-0ubuntu5) will be installed
gnobots2 (version 1:2.32.1-0ubuntu5) will be installed
gnome (version 1:2.30+7ubuntu3) will be installed
gnome-accessibility (version 1:2.30+7ubuntu3) will be installed
gnome-core (version 1:2.30+7ubuntu3) will be installed
gnome-desktop-environment (version 1:2.30+7ubuntu3) will be installed
gnome-games (version 1:2.32.1-0ubuntu5) will be installed
gnome-games-extra-data (version 2.30.0-1ubuntu1) will be installed
gnome-js-common (version 0.1.2-1) will be installed
gnome-netstatus-applet (version 2.28.1-1ubuntu1) will be installed
gnome-office (version 1:2.30+7ubuntu3) will be installed
gnome-themes (version 2.32.1-0ubuntu1) will be installed
gnotravex (version 1:2.32.1-0ubuntu5) will be installed
gnotski (version 1:2.32.1-0ubuntu5) will be installed
gok (version 2.30.0-1ubuntu1) will be installed
gtali (version 1:2.32.1-0ubuntu5) will be installed
hamster-applet (version 2.32.1-0ubuntu1) will be installed
iagno (version 1:2.32.1-0ubuntu5) will be installed
imagemagick (version 7:6.6.2.6-1ubuntu4) will be installed
inkscape (version 0.48.1-2ubuntu2) will be installed
libbabl-0.0-0 (version 0.0.22-1build1) will be installed
libblas3gf (version 1.2-8) will be installed
libboost-date-time1.42.0 (version 1.42.0-4ubuntu2) will be installed
libboost-program-options1.42.0 (version 1.42.0-4ubuntu2) will be installed
libboost-thread1.42.0 (version 1.42.0-4ubuntu2) will be installed
libcdt4 (version 2.26.3-5ubuntu1) will be installed
libcheese-gtk18 (version 2.32.0-0ubuntu2) will be installed
libdiscid0 (version 0.2.2-1) will be installed
libgegl-0.0-0 (version 0.0.22-2ubuntu2) will be installed
libgfortran3 (version 4.5.2-8ubuntu4) will be installed
libgimp2.0 (version 2.6.11-1ubuntu6) will be installed
libgnome-speech7 (version 1:0.4.25-4ubuntu1) will be installed
libgraph4 (version 2.26.3-5ubuntu1) will be installed
libgtkglext1 (version 1.2.0-1.1ubuntu1) will be installed
libgvc5 (version 2.26.3-5ubuntu1) will be installed
libilmbase6 (version 1.0.1-3build2) will be installed
liblapack3gf (version 3.3.0-3) will be installed
libmagick++3 (version 7:6.6.2.6-1ubuntu4) will be installed
libmagickcore3-extra (version 7:6.6.2.6-1ubuntu4) will be installed
libmusicbrainz3-6 (version 3.0.2-2) will be installed
libnetpbm10 (version 2:10.0-12.2) will be installed
libopal3.6.8 (version 3.6.8~dfsg-2) will be installed
libopenexr6 (version 1.6.1-4.1) will be installed
libpathplan4 (version 2.26.3-5ubuntu1) will be installed
libpt2.6.7 (version 2.6.7-1ubuntu1) will be installed
libseed0 (version 2.31.91-0ubuntu4) will be installed
libsrtp0 (version 1.4.4~dfsg-6) will be installed
libwmf-bin (version 0.2.8.4-7ubuntu3) will be installed
liferea (version 1.6.4-1ubuntu7) will be installed
liferea-data (version 1.6.4-1ubuntu7) will be installed
lightsoff (version 1:2.32.1-0ubuntu5) will be installed
menu-xdg (version 0.5) will be installed
mozilla-plugin-gnash (version 0.8.9-1ubuntu1) will be installed
netpbm (version 2:10.0-12.2) will be installed
perlmagick (version 7:6.6.2.6-1ubuntu4) will be installed
python-evolution (version 2.32.0-0ubuntu2) will be installed
python-gnomedesktop (version 2.32.0-0ubuntu2) will be installed
python-gtkglext1 (version 1.1.0-6build1) will be installed
python-lxml (version 2.3-0.1) will be installed
python-numpy (version 1:1.5.1-1ubuntu2) will be installed
python-opengl (version 3.0.1~b2-1) will be installed
python-rsvg (version 2.32.0-0ubuntu2) will be installed
python-uniconvertor (version 1.1.4-1build2) will be installed
seahorse-plugins (version 2.30.1-3ubuntu2) will be installed
seed (version 2.31.91-0ubuntu4) will be installed
sound-juicer (version 2.32.0-1) will be installed
swell-foop (version 1:2.32.1-0ubuntu5) will be installed


A made a few notes here about how to make Natty look identical to Maverick or Lucid:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1718631](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1718631)

---

### Post by tim15856 on 2011-05-02
> **Logan7x3 said:**
> All you need to do is go to the bottom panel as you log in and change from, "*Ubuntu*" to, "Ubuntu Clasic"

That will change the look from unity to gnome!

Hope This Works!

This didn't work for me. The only options I had was Ubuntu 11.04 or Ubuntu laptop. I got the old desktop by going into the 'login screen' tool and changed the setting to Ubuntu claasic there.

---

### Post by doon41 on 2011-05-03
I know this is very stupid, but how do I get to a screen that has a "bottom panel"?  I get tossed into the inscrutable new interface as soon as I select to boot from ubuntu partition.  Relp!

---

### Post by deconstrained on 2011-05-03
> **Logan7x3 said:**
> All you need to do is go to the bottom panel as you log in and change from, "*Ubuntu*" to, "Ubuntu Clasic"

That will change the look from unity to gnome!

Hope This Works!
Oh god I feel stupid now. I should have done this.

After upgrading to 11.04 (and manually rebuilding the initrd/reinstalling GRUB, which the post-installation hooks didn't perform correctly) I took one look at Unity and installed Debian. But hey, I have a nice clean, fast & stable system all set up how I like it now so I guess can't complain.

---

### Post by eshton123 on 2011-05-03
> **doon41 said:**
> I know this is very stupid, but how do I get to a screen that has a "bottom panel"?  I get tossed into the inscrutable new interface as soon as I select to boot from ubuntu partition.  Relp!

I had the same issue :P. Just click on the user you wish to log in with and you will see the changes on the bottom panel.

---

### Post by duncanbbd on 2011-05-03
have also just installed the 11.04 and got the new desktop,  not very great I must say.
but eventually managed to revert to the original and better desktop.

---

