---
title: "Default monitor resolution (800x600) needs to be changed"
date: 2008-09-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by edwardp on 2008-09-01
First cup.  :)

I installed Xubuntu 8.04.1 (Hardy Heron?) on a system this morning, using the Alternative image.  The system is now downloading updates.

The monitor resolution defaulted to 800x600 which is too large and the desktop settings item does not show anything beyond 800x600.

The video card is a 3dfx Voodoo3 2000 PCI with 16 Mb of video memory on-board and the monitor is a Samtron (Samsung) 77V, 17-inch CRT.  With other distros I've had on this same system, I have been able to select and use resolutions all the way up to 1280x1024.

I would like to change the resolution from 800x600 to 1024x768 and would appreciate any assistance in doing so.

Thank you.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-09-01
> **edwardp said:**
> First cup.  :)

I installed Xubuntu 8.04.1 (Hardy Heron?) on a system this morning, using the Alternative image.  The system is now downloading updates.

The monitor resolution defaulted to 800x600 which is too large and the desktop settings item does not show anything beyond 800x600.

The video card is a 3dfx Voodoo3 2000 PCI with 16 Mb of video memory on-board and the monitor is a Samtron (Samsung) 77V, 17-inch CRT.  With other distros I've had on this same system, I have been able to select and use resolutions all the way up to 1280x1024.

I would like to change the resolution from 800x600 to 1024x768 and would appreciate any assistance in doing so.

Thank you.

Hi and welcome, you may try and install  displayconfig-gtk and then use the command ```
gksu displayconfig-gtk
``` and adjust your driver and resolution there. If this fails you can boot into recovery mode which is usually the second choice from the grub.

Moved to ABT :)

---

### Post by edwardp on 2008-09-01
displayconfig-gtk was already installed.  The command specified brought up the config screen.

However, after I selected which driver and monitor, the available resolutions changed.  But after I set it to 1024x768, tested it, then logged out, the screen came back as 800x600.

I again ran the command and the settings were back to their original defaults.  After making the changes, they did not save.

I changed the settings again, clicked OK.  Then CTRL-ALT-BKSP (instead of logging out) and again, the screen came back at 800x600.  displayconfig-gtk is once again showing the defaults.

I have also tried this with "sudo" in front of the command.  When the test screen came up, I could NOT click either Cancel or Save Configuration, nor did the keyboard work until after that screen disappeared.

If it is not saving the settings, then this would appear to be a major bug in your software.

---

### Post by TeknoPhil on 2008-09-01
This thread might help:
[http://ge.ubuntuforums.com/showthread.php?t=799078]("http://ge.ubuntuforums.com/showthread.php?t=799078")

Check #5 & #6

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-09-01
> **edwardp said:**
> 

If it is not saving the settings, then this would appear to be a major bug in your software.

Hi and my software  I wish.  All serious now, the voodoo graphics I am not had any experience with and in the previous versions of ubuntu you could hand edit and change the default depth to 16 from 24 and helped in the past. You may try use the xfix option that I have mentioned in my previous post. The settings should have saved as you were using gksu which is the same as sudo.

---

### Post by edwardp on 2008-09-01
I tried the xfix option, booted using the recovery mode selection, no change.  If the settings should have saved using gksu and did not, then it's a bug in my book.  If it matters, I was not prompted for any password when using gksu.

---

### Post by edwardp on 2008-09-01
xorg.conf:

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
EndSection

```

Not even saving when sudo (and prompted for password) is used.  

Nice first impression.  :(

---

### Post by edwardp on 2008-09-01
> **TeknoPhil said:**
> This thread might help:
[http://ge.ubuntuforums.com/showthread.php?t=799078]("http://ge.ubuntuforums.com/showthread.php?t=799078")

Check #5 & #6

The Voodoo3 card I have is a regular VGA video card, it does not have any S-video or TV outputs.

---

### Post by RiceMonster on 2008-09-01
In the display section of your xorg.conf, try adding this and then logging back in:

```

SubSection "Display"
	Viewport   0 0
	Depth     24
	Modes "1280x1024"
EndSubSection

```

Add it after the "Device" line and make sure "EndSection" is after it.

If that messes something up, hit CTL-ALT-F2 to switch to the terminal, then remove those lines with nano or vim, whichever you prefer.

---

### Post by edwardp on 2008-09-01
```

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
SubSection "Display"
        Viewport    0 0
        Depth      16
        Modes "1024x768"
EndSubSection
EndSection

```

I changed the color depth to 16 and the resolution to 1024x768.

Assuming the above is where it should have been placed, it still came up at 800x600 afterwards...

BTW:

sudo dpkg-configure xserver-xorg only displayed prompts for **keyboard** items, nothing about video whatsoever.

---

### Post by aimpau on 2008-09-01
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        **[COLOR="SeaGreen"]Driver          "voodoo"[/COLOR]**
[B][COLOR="Red"]SubSection "Display"
        Viewport    0 0
        Depth      16
        Modes "1024x768"
EndSubSection[/COLOR]
[/B]
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
EndSection

```

Check boldfaced and reddened part. That's where it should be placed.


edit:
I think as of Xubuntu 8.04, the whole dpkg-(something) no longer configures the xorg.conf regarding the video card. However, the displayconfig-gtk does the trick.

1. Check if it's propriety.
2. if not, go to terminal
```

gksu displayconfig-gtk

```
2.1 choose your card's name, resolution and refresh rate.
2.2 on top of the dialog box, you'll see a floppy disk. Click that to save your settings.
3. Log out and log back in.

**EDIT 1.2**
Check boldfaced and greened. Add that too.

---

### Post by edwardp on 2008-09-01
displayconfig-gtk does not appear to be working either.  

If the test portion of the X server comes up once changes are made using that, the Cancel and <something> Configuration icons CANNOT be clicked with the mouse, nor can they be selected by pressing the TAB key (the Cancel icon is bolded as the default), as if it disables the mouse and keyboard in the process of testing the configuration.

If it looks like it saved, I will see a reference to "True" in the console window with what looks like a memory address (Saved to memory, but not the hard drive???), upon a restart/reboot, it comes up in 800x600 again.

I made the changes (except for below) in the previous message, it came up in low-graphics mode, wanting to run displayconfig-gtk again.

The Voodoo 3 card uses the "tdfx" driver in Linux, not "voodoo".  That was the only change made.

**This problem obviously cannot be fixed, I've wasted enough time with it already.  I'm done with it.**

Thank you all for trying to help, appreciate it.

---

### Post by aimpau on 2008-09-02
> **edwardp said:**
> was the only change made.

**This problem obviously cannot be fixed, I've wasted enough time with it already.  I'm done with it.**

Thank you all for trying to help, appreciate it.


Dude. Have patience. We are trying our best to help you in anyways possible.

If we have your attitude, every single reply in this forum would be:

"I've wasted enough time with this already."

Give us a chance. :)


By what you say, I think you need to disable framebuffering.


type:

```

mousepad /var/log/Xorg.0.log

```

and post back the log.

---

### Post by edwardp on 2008-09-05
I reformatted and repartitioned the hard drive, so it currently does not have xubuntu on it.

However, I tried the xubuntu LiveCD again, added the boot parameter *fb=false* which turns off the framebuffer and the desktop still came up in 800x600 resolution and could not be changed.

---

### Post by Zimmer on 2008-09-05
Any chance of seeing the xorg.log ? 
I have just spent the last 3 weeks getting a working config (after using Dapper perfectly ok for the last 2 years) and I discover it is a new version of X that does not work quite the same as the old one in Dapper.
It relies heavily on autodetection of monitors etc through HAL and gathering monitor info through the EDID .
If that info is dodgy, or the driver is not quite right, or we use vga extension cables or other monitor switchers then we get problems if the detection routine fails/misreads or reads corrupt data from the hardware.

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+question/39299](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+question/39299)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/194760](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/194760)

  as for      Modes "1024x768" I think this statement will only be of use if there is a corresponding modeline statement labelled Modeline "1024x768".
and even that may not work if something odd is happening during monitor detection.
Let's see the xorg.log....

---

### Post by edwardp on 2008-09-06
I have it booting from the LiveCD now, but selected "safe graphics mode" this time, to see what it does.

I recall when I ran displayconfig-gtk, it detected my Samtron 77V monitor, as a "plug and play" monitor instead, but the Samtron was listed in that particular pull-down list.  I was able to change the monitor using displayconfig-gtk, but I still could not get the desktop resolution beyond 800x600.

The xorg.conf file from the original installation, is [here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5706662&postcount=7).  

The LiveCD (using "safe graphics mode") finished booting and the desktop has appeared.  It is not 800x600 this time.  I ran displayconfig-gtk, it correctly detected the Samtron monitor and also correctly indicates the desktop resolution is 1280x1024.

The only difference between the original xorg.conf installation file shown above and the xorg.conf file that loaded in from the LiveCD now, is that 
**Section "Device" **has an additional entry of **Driver  "vesa"**

Since I used the "alternative" image to install this, as the regular image kept displaying input/output errors and failed, since I therefore did not have a bootable system, I reformatted the hard drive.  I do not know why the installer from the LiveCD displayed those errors.

Could the packager have included a different xorg.conf file for the "alternative" image???

I just don't know if it is worth spending time again reinstalling this for a second time...

The system specs are in the signature below, I believe it exceeds the minimum specs for Xubuntu.

Here is the xorg.conf file from the LiveCD, you will see the reference to "vesa" not in the xorg.conf that came with the "alternative" image:

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by Zimmer on 2008-09-06
OK, so the LiveCD defaults the card to vesa drivers, which work (but not in 3D).
This means you can install and run Ubuntu (using the vesa drivers) for normal use.
If you copy and keep that xorg.conf you can use it in the new install and (hopefully) the vesa driver will talk nicely to your monitor and eventually give you the res you want.
As for 3D effects with your 10 year old voodoo card.... well, there may be a way to employ them, but it will take a bit of reading and tweaking and finding the right driver and reading the xorg.log to see what it gets up to , I expect.
As long as you back up the xorg.conf before tweaking you should be able to get back to a working (2D) system should things not go as expected.

Oh, and the LiveCd installer probably had (lack of) memory issues (graphical installer), hence the 'need' for a text based installer in the alternative CD

---

### Post by edwardp on 2008-09-06
What I could do is try installing using the alternative image again, then edit xorg.conf to add the "vesa" item, then reboot, but then, it may not guarantee that I won't have this problem.  There could be something else different about the alternative image as well.

When I originally used the LiveCD to install it the first time (when the errors came up), it was using a text interface, as I selected "Install" from the boot menu and did not bring up the graphical desktop.  I can try bringing up the graphical desktop using the safe graphics (vesa?) setting and install that way, it's the only way I haven't tried installing yet.

---

### Post by edwardp on 2008-09-06
It appears that I finally have a successful install of Xubuntu.  It took four (4) hours to install it on this system, using the standard (non-alternative) image via the GUI.

The desktop came up in 1280x1024 resolution after login.  :)

---

### Post by Zimmer on 2008-09-07
Great, so , if you look in the xorg.log and view the xorg.conf that should enlighten you (and the rest of us) as to how the install has configured the card and monitor.... :)  and help you in   the future if you encounter similar problems..

---

