---
title: "12.04 - HDMI outpur keeps disappearing from Sound Settings"
date: 2012-06-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-06-10
Hi folks

As per the subject line, my sound output via HDMI will be absolutely fine, then after a while, when i try to play an mp3 or watch a YouTube video, i'll then notice that i can't hear anything. Checking Sound Settings shows that the HDMI Output option has disappeared.

See attached screenshots.

Logging out and then back in again seems to fix it, but i really don't want to have to keep doing that all the time.

Does anyone have any ideas or suggestions please as to what could be causing this, and what i can do to stop it from occurring?

I'm running a Radeon HD 5450 sound/graphics card, and have the proprietary drivers installed.

Would appreciate a bit of help here  :)

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-06-11
Bump .... anyone?  :D

---

### Post by djphelan@gmail.com on 2012-06-12
I am experiencing this very same problem. My sound will work fine through the HDMI and then will stop.

When I check the sound settings...

Output tab: 

Play sound through , the HDMI choice will be gone even though the right side of the window will still say Settings for HDMI Output.

As soon as I log out the sound will resume and I get the bongos when the login screen appears.

I recently built this system so I am somewhat relieved it is not a hardware problem with the motherboard.

My system is built around an MSI Mini ITX motherboard based on the AMD Fusion E350IA-E45.  I have 4 Gigs of RAM. Not much else to say except this system has an ATI 6310 graphics chip inbedded in the CPU die (APU).

Sure would like to know how the resolve this.

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-06-12
> **djphelan@gmail.com said:**
> Sure would like to know how the resolve this.

Me too!

Hopefully some helpful Ubuntu Technical Guru will give us some advice. :D

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-06-13
Seriously, does no-one have any ideas about this problem?

Is there at least a command or something i can do to manually re-load the sound settings rather than having to log off and back on again?

C'mon, help a brother out here!!  :D

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-06-14
I think this will be my last 'bump' of this thread. Resigning myself to the fact that this glitch is something i'll just have to live with  :(

---

### Post by dcsoldschool53 on 2012-06-14
I am not a guru, but try this in a terminal```
alsamixer
```When it opens, hit F6. Is your HDMI listed there. If so, select it from the list, and make your changes.

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-06-14
Thanks for the response.

After i hit F6, the options i get are;
[I]- (default)
0 HDA Intel PCH
1 HD-Audio Generic
enter device name.....[/I]

In the Sound Settings, i can still see the "HDMI/Display Port, HDMI Cedar Audio Radeon...." option as per my first post.

---

### Post by dcsoldschool53 on 2012-06-16
Now we are going to look for changes. Turn off your system and remove the HDMI from the computer. Then turn it back on again, and go back to```
alsamixer
```Press F6 again to look for the changes. If```
*0 HDA Intel PCH*
```*disappeared from the options, it is the setting for your HDMI.  You will needed to  make it the default setting. On the other hand, if*```
*1 HD-Audio Generic*
```[I]disappeared from the setting, the same rules will apply for it. It has to be made the default setting. 
[/I]

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-06-17
Okay, i have disconnected HDMI, and connected to another monitor in the house via VGA. The Alsamixer options are exactly the same as when i was connected via HDMI (See attached screenshot).

---

### Post by dcsoldschool53 on 2012-06-19
try here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1957720 ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1957720")Maybe this will help.

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-06-19
Okay, i tried that, and don't appear to have PulseAudio installed; "Sorry, there is nothing that matches your search".

So i guess i need to install it?

Edit; seems it was installed already, just no management GUI for it - now installed, so will see how it goes. Thanks for your help with this.

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-06-19
Just had the HDMI audio disappear again, and no amount of mucking around with PulseAudio would bring it back. Only thing that will bring it back is a reboot or logging out and then back in again.

Have tried;
```
sudo alsa force-reload
```

But no joy.

Any other ideas?

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-06-20
Been doing some more testing, and i suspect that it might be my amp/receiver.

It's an Onkyo unit, and has a bunch of HDMI inputs, with an HDMI output going to a home theater projector. I had an mp3 playing via VLC, and was switching the amp/receiver through the various audio modes; stereo, mono, Pro-Logic II Music, etc - all seemed to be switching fine.

Then as soon as i pressed the 'Setup' button on the amp/receiver remote, the amp clicked, and my speakers went silent - i assumed that was because the amp/receiver was in setup mode. I didn't change anything, but when i exited setup mode, the speakers didn't resume outputting audio, and the HDMI option in Ubuntu Sound Settings had disappeared.

VLC was still going, with the song progress bar progressing as normal.

I've tried turning the amp/receiver off and on - when i do this, the display disappears, which i expected, and then reappears without issue, but no fixing of the audio.

So i suspect that after not detecting an audio output from the HDMI cable for a while, the amp/receiver is switching it off, which is then causing the HDMI output on the PC to stop.

Problem is that i don't know how to fix it other than logging out and then back in again, which is a bit inconvenient.

Do you think i should try reposting this in the Multimedia & Video sub-forum? Or start a thread in there and link to this one?

I'd really like to get this sorted out if possible  :)

Edit; i've also noticed that when i try the code mentioned above, *sudo alsa force-reload*, i also get as part of the Unloading output "(failed: modules still loaded: snd-hda-codec-hdmi snd-hda-codec-realtek snd-hda-intel snd-hda-codec snd-hwdep snd-pcm snd-timer snd-page-alloc)."

Could those modules not reloading be an issue? How would i force them to reload?

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-06-21
Not being able to get this figured out was starting to do my head in - i think my amp/receiver and Ubuntu were conspiring to upset me. So i've caved in, and started using an optical cable for my audio. No problems at all so far.

HDMI audio? You beat me *sigh*.  :)

---

### Post by Great Mason K on 2012-06-23
I had the same problem with the 6400 series ....

If you dont mind the AMD testing only watermark in the bottom right hand corner then this worked for me ....

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/1001842](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/1001842)

follow points #7 and #10 on the link.

enjoy

---

### Post by FullAuto on 2012-06-23
I've got the same exact issue running Mint MATE 13.

Sound works for a while, then all the sudden stops and the HDMI output disappears. Restart, and it's working again.

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-06-24
Thanks for that Mason, much appreciated. :)

FullAuto, you could try the updated Beta drivers that Mason suggests, but i also saw in that Launchpad link that a short-term workaround was to access the Display Settings and clicking Apply without changing anything. I haven't tried that yet.

I've switched back to HDMI rather than Optical, and will see how it goes. I'd be happy with a solution that doesn't require restarting or logging out and in again.

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-06-25
That Launchpad link suggestion to re-apply the display settings doesn't seem to work. I've already got an optical cable wired up, so i might as well use that rather than mess around with the AMD drivers - i always seem to stuff something up when i do that kind of thing, so i'm learning to just leave stuff alone if it's working okay.

And optical is working sweet  :)

---

### Post by phibxr on 2012-08-25
I've got the exact same issue here with a ATI Radeon HD 6800-series card. Relogging fixes the issue, but since it appears at random (while watching a movie without performing any other tasks) it gets really annoying.

Any solutions for this? Has there been a bug reported somewhere which can be tracked?

Edit: This is clearly a Catalyst driver issue. I found a bug report on Launchpad, but lost track of the link.

However, the following commands (more or less) solve the issue:

```
$ xrandr --output DFP9 --off
$ xrandr --auto
```

You will have to change DFP9 with the display name of your external HDMI-connected display.

If you are running a mirrored view, that will be everything. However, if you have expanded your desktop, you will also have to start Catalyst Control Center in Admin Mode and click Apply.

Then you will be able to select HDMI in your Audio options again.

---

### Post by Randy Flagg on 2012-09-08
I have the same issue and would like to find the permanent fix. It seems to be whenever the pc doesn't have an hdmi connection it loses the sound option.  It was happening to me when the screensaver turned off my tv and if I switched inputs on my receiver. 

I fixed the screensaver issue by just turning off but it pretty annoying to have to reboot every time I switch inputs. 

Any ideas?

---

### Post by kanatera on 2012-09-09
Thanks very much phibxr, I got the same issue as discussed here and your (workaround) solution really save my day (at least until amd fix their driver).

---

### Post by jeliocranch on 2012-11-05
Me too! Me too!

I just replaced my htpc that had video and sound from Radeon AHD4350 to a new A8-3870 w/ HD6550 on board.  

Upon initial install, there was no sound from HDMI.  I tried several Ubuntu versions: different spins, older kernels back to 10.10.  I tried Windows 7, too.  No sound on any of them until I installed the driver for the windows system.  That was my hint that it was driver related which means we should be complaining to ATI.

I wiped windows out and started over with standard 64-bit Ubuntu 12.04.  I installed the latest stable fglrx (ccc12-9.02 I think) from ATI directly.  ATI says fglrx from ubuntu repo's is ccc12-9.0.
 
Within minutes I had an unmet dependency error.  Running ```
apt-get -f install
``` "fixed" the problem by replacing the instaled fglrx with the repo version.

Sound worked as long as I tested it, but changing inputs on the TV or powering off the TV would cause HDMI audio to dissappear along with sound.

alsamixer showed hdmi output, neither disabled or muted, but unresponsive to any attempts to change it.

Rebooting would work for a while, though so I started thinking it was an HDCP handshake issue, so I tried ```
startx
``` but now I can't even log in anymore.  Something new to fix...

This installation is standard 64-bit Ubuntu 12.04 (as was my previous HTPC for the last 6 months), less than 24 hours old.

I should say my last build (with the 4350 card) would lose sound occasionally, but only once every 2-3 months, fixed by simply unplugging and replugging the HDMI cable (which resoundingly indicates HDCP handshake loss).

---

### Post by SushiAddiction on 2012-11-05
[post copied from another thread]

see this thread
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1961114](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1961114)

This was one of the several bugs in unity that annoyed me for over a  year... until I switched to gnome. Cinnamon  is good too. I have no idea  why : /

Now I don't lose HDMI audio or have kernal panic for ATI on shutdown or Modal dialogues appearing on the wrong monitor :razz:  

I like ubuntu but unfortunately there are too many bugs. They can't keep going on like this :sad:

---

