---
title: "error in fstab?"
date: 2010-03-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nitstorm on 2010-03-12
Hey guys, tried searching the forums but found no thread so here i am starting one.
I created a partition using the Disk Management in Vista last week. Also did the update and am using the kernel 2.6.31-20 . I don't know what the problem is but i get an error as soon as i see the login screen before i can even enter the password to get in. Says some fstab error and says press any key to enter a recovery shell. so i do that. 
Now when i tried free -m, this is my o/p:
> 
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          2003       1935         67          0         20       1712
-/+ buffers/cache:        202       1800
Swap:            0          0          0



and this is my /etc/fstab:
> 
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=c21ddd83-ae67-45db-a403-de97b47f6428 / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=9123a146-1bdb-417d-8ccf-51cd7d297933 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Vista ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_IN 0 0
/dev/sda3 /media/Storage2 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_IN 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/Storage1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_IN 0 0


I think my swap area got deleted or something. Please help me restore my swap back. Here's the o/p of my fdisk -l just incase you were wondering what it looked like
> 
Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xe603e603

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        6528    52428800    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            6528       12794    50331648    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3           12794       16841    32513024    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda4           16842       19457    21013020    5  Extended
/dev/sda5           16968       19457    20000925   83  Linux



Thanks in advance guys :)

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2010-03-12
Yeah, unless you've got another disk, you swap space is gone. Try this at a shell:

```

dd if=/dev/zero of=/swap bs=1048576 count=4096
mkswap /swap

```

Change the count value (2048 here) to the number of *megabytes* of swap space you need. A good rule of thumb is 2-3 times as much RAM you've got (hence my setting it for 4GB, based on your 2GB of RAM).

With this done, replace the swap line in your /etc/fstab with this:

```

/swap none swap sw 0 0

```

That should get you up and running again. A better long-term solution is to recreate your swap partition, but that will involve adjusting your partition table. In fact, it looks like you've got some free tracks at the start of your extended partition, so if you care to try that immediately, you can. You'll need to create a new partition of type 0x82 using fdisk, GNU Parted, or whatever, starting at track           16842. Depending on how this is done and how GRUB is configured, you might or might not need to update your GRUB configuration to reference the correct partition numbers. You may also need to issue a mkswap command on the partition (probably not if you use Parted, though) and update /etc/fstab to refer to the new swap partition.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-03-12
Anyone with 2 gig ram only needs 2 gig swap.

If you have 4 gig and you need to hibenate etc then 4 gig swap. Even then 2 gig would probably do.

The old good rule of thumb used to apply when ram was in short supply.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq)

---

### Post by nitstorm on 2010-03-15
Sorry for the extremely late reply to the thread.

Tried phillinux's link and since srs5694 also mentioned that creating a swap partition should be better in the long run, I just made a swap partition in the free space I had using the karmic live disc but that had no effect so i used parted magic live disc and made a swap partition. But when I log into Ubuntu, I get the same error message.

This is my current /etc/fstab:
```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=c21ddd83-ae67-45db-a403-de97b47f6428 / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=9123a146-1bdb-417d-8ccf-51cd7d297933 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Vista ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_IN 0 0
/dev/sda3 /media/Storage2 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_IN 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/Storage1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_IN 0 0

```

And, this is my current o/p fr* sudo fdisk -l* :
```

Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xe603e603

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        6528    52428800    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            6528       12794    50331648    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3           12794       16841    32513024    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda4           16842       19457    21013020    5  Extended
/dev/sda5           16968       19457    20000925   83  Linux
/dev/sda6           16842       16967     1012032   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Partition table entries are not in disk order


```
Please help guys, not having a swap is haunting me in my sleep :P

---

### Post by nitstorm on 2010-03-15
Anybody? please guys .....

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-03-15
It does not automatically know that you manually created a new swap with a new UUID.

You can run this to see the new UUID:

sudo blkid 


Then replace the old UUID in fstab with the new one for your swap.

---

### Post by rustutzman on 2010-03-15
Have you tried running fsck on the drive in question? I'd try that first.

Russ

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-03-15
Did you run this:

```

sudo swapoff -a
sudo /sbin/mkswap /dev/hda6
sudo swapon -a
```

---

### Post by nitstorm on 2010-03-15
> 
	 		**Re: error in fstab?**
 		Have you tried running fsck on the drive in question? I'd try that first.

Russ 	


> 
**Re: error in fstab?**
 		Did you run this:

 	Code:
 	sudo swapoff -a
sudo /sbin/mkswap /dev/hda6
sudo swapon -a 
Sorry guys, I did not run that. Actually I didn't know I was supposed to do that


Anyways, thanks to oldfred I got the UUID from *blkid *and put it into /etc/fstab and restarted my comp to check ifI got the error message and I didn't :D 

So BIG THANKS TO oldfred, phillinux, srs5694, Russ and wojox for all your help. THREAD SOLVED. 

But still Russ and wojox I'd like to know what the code that you asked me to type into the terminal meant. Just curious and yes although I have been using Ubuntu for around 4 months my skills are just barely newbie...LOL

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-03-15
Those commands disable all swap, recreates it, then re-enables it.

---

### Post by nitstorm on 2010-03-15
Wow!!! You guys and Linux keep amazing me continuously... Linux is so intriguing and simply put complex  and you guys seem to handle it effortlessly. I really respect you people and also envy you too :P LOL sorry but I am human :P LOL LOL

Thanks for explaining wojox :D

Cheers!

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2010-03-15
> **nitstorm said:**
> But still Russ and wojox I'd like to know what the code that you asked me to type into the terminal meant.

Russ suggested using fsck. This would have no effect on your problem, since fsck is a filesystem check utility (that's what the name means -- fs = filesystem, ck = check), and swap space isn't a filesystem.

Wojox has replied about what his commands do (although there was a typo; you'd use /dev/sda6, not /dev/hda6); however, his commands would have only a temporary effect. Once you reboot, the swap space would be unused again until you fixed the /etc/fstab issue or re-run the swapon command. Manually enabling swap space in this way can be useful if you've been doing maintenance, for testing purposes, to temporarily add swap space in case you need more of it on a one-time basis, etc.

---

### Post by nitstorm on 2010-03-15
Ah! Nice!!! Thanks for making it simplified srs5694. Cheers man :)

---

### Post by ilove2boogie on 2010-04-13
Hi,

I have a really really similar problem... when booting get the
"one or more mounts listed in /etc/fstab cannot yet be mounted:
Swap: waiting for UUID = blahblah
Press Esc to enter in recovery shell"

Bit different though - I recently resized my Ubuntu partition using a Live gparted CD, by taking some space from my Windows partition, but I didn't touch the swap partition - it's still there and intact. I upgraded to Karmic straight after....

I tried the "swap off... make swap.... enable swap" fix described above anyway, but at the last stage, got the same error - it still can't find that UUID:-( 

~$ sudo swapoff -a
[sudo] password for : 
~$ sudo /sbin/mkswap /dev/sda4
Setting up swapspace version 1, size = 1020120 KiB
no label, UUID=0ef578f9-cfa5-4ae4-924c-ffe17539f8cd
~$ sudo swapon -a
swapon: cannot find the device for UUID=8c4b8faa-192f-4b20-8065-4ab0ade2d6c0


Any ideas? Thank you!!

---

### Post by ilove2boogie on 2010-04-13
A ha!
The sudo blkid, then edit fstab trick fixed it:-) Thanks!
Not sure why this problem happened in the first place though...

---

