---
title: "[SOLVED] ATI 9250 stuck in low resolution mode"
date: 2008-10-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-10-01
I have an ATI 9250 graphics card stuck in low resolution mode.  I have tried several ways of loading the driver, but it does not take it.  I really want to get it working.  Any help including a copy of the xorg.conf setup would be appreciated.

Thanks

Donald

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2008-10-01
have you tried envyng?

load envyng-core from the repositories

or
```
sudo apt-get install envyng-core
```

then in a terminal run

```
envyng -t
```

Select the ATI option and let it load the driver.

It *may* resolve your problem.

---

### Post by Terl on 2008-10-01
Which driver are you trying to use?  Per this [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedDrivers/ATI?highlight=%289250%29%7C%28radeon%29%7C%28ati%29]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedDrivers/ATI?highlight=%289250%29%7C%28radeon%29%7C%28ati%29") you should use the open source ati driver.

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-10-01
I have been trying to load the open source driver with no success.  I followed the documentation on Ubuntu about loading it and it still does not work.

My xorg.conf looks like this:
> terminator@terminator-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
   	Identifier "ATI 3D"
   	Driver "ati"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device          "ATI 3D"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
terminator@terminator-desktop:~$ 


---

### Post by Terl on 2008-10-01
I found a guide here:  [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver?highlight=%289250%29%7C%28radeon%29%7C%28ati%29]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver?highlight=%289250%29%7C%28radeon%29%7C%28ati%29")  This has a good deal of info to help you get your xorg.conf set up.  Yours does not look like the sections they have.

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-10-01
Yea I found out my xorg.conf was all balled up.  Wrote it the way they said and the video now works along with compiz.  Thanks

---

