---
title: "10.10 is there a way to unistall on second partition"
date: 2010-12-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by petereview on 2010-12-15
Currently,I am working out some hardware issues installing unbuntu 10.10 (another thread). Two questions related to adding Unbuntu on top of XP via second partition with dual boot using grub from Unbuntu CD:
1) lets say hardware problem freezes up the fresh install of unbuntu 10.10. Is it possible to reinstall over that Unbuntu partition? will grub still work?  This way I can try different versions 10, 9, ect of Unbuntu until it works.  Maybe even try Mint Linux.  The trick is I want to preserve the XP partition and still access it no matter what the compatibility outcome.
2) this is probably harder option but I am curious.  Can I erase the unbuntu partition and allow the xp to be primary.  Also have it start up normally to XP (reverse to current state).

Thank you for explaining all the how to!


Video output -Intel(R) 82945G Express Chipset Family
3.00 gigahertz Intel Pentium 4
MSI 945GCM5-F V2 (MS-7267) 4.0
Bus Clock: 200 megahertz
BIOS: American Megatrends Inc. V17.10 06/02/2009
SONY DVD RW AW-Q170A [Optical drive]
Maxtor 6L100M0 [Hard drive] (100.26 GB) 
WDC WD740ADFD-00NLR5 [Hard drive] (74.36 GB)	
1016 Megabytes Usable Installed Memory
Slot 'DIMM0' has 1024 MB
Slot 'DIMM1' is Empty

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-12-15
If you install another os on that partition, it will overwrite the current os.

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2010-12-15
> **petereview said:**
> 
1) Is it possible to reinstall over that Unbuntu partition? will grub still work?  


Please refer back to Sef's post.

> 
This way I can try different versions 10, 9, ect of Unbuntu until it works.  Maybe even try Mint Linux.  The trick is I want to preserve the XP partition and still access it no matter what the compatibility outcome.

The trick is: you need to create a liveCD for Ubutnu, Mint, or whatever you want and try it without installing it.
Please check the website of each OS in order to understand what steps you need to follow in order to create a LiveCD or USB.
Some OS has no LiveCD.


> 2) this is probably harder option but I am curious.  Can I erase the unbuntu partition and allow the xp to be primary.  Also have it start up normally to XP (reverse to current state).

It means you'll format that Partition and Install XP.
I would strongly recommend to wipe everything (IF you don't have IMPORTANT Data - If yes, backup before anything) and install XP.

---

### Post by petereview on 2010-12-16
Thank you for the responses.  Sef I was glad to hear it was possible to reinstall on the second partition with another version of Unbuntu.  It will probably reconfigure the boot up in grub so it gives the dual boot option.  

Amjjawad that is great idea to reinstall a second version xp if all else does not work out.  The dual boot up would then be configured by xp cd. 

All back-up files are on second drive.  I got a pile of different live cds ready to install until it works.  The one to try next is the Unbuntu 10.10 Alternative Install CD since the first one froze up after installing.  I can keep trying until one of these works out.  Linux without CD - will research those - sounds interesting to try.  Thx again!:p


:guitar:

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2010-12-16
> **petereview said:**
> Amjjawad that is great idea to reinstall a second version xp if all else does not work out.  The dual boot up would then be configured by xp cd. 

Just to make sure we're in the same page, kindly refer to this guide: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot)

If you don't want to read that (I'd strongly recommend that you need to read it first), you can follow a very simple steps.

1- Backup everything you care about

2- Wipe your HDD

3- Using Windows XP CD, try to create one partition only (C:) and leave the remaining space un-partitioned.

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/picture.php?albumid=2139&pictureid=7130[/IMG]


4- Once XP is up and running then boot your machine with the LiveCD of Ubuntu, Mint or any other LiveCD (Fedora for example)

5- System > Administration > GParted

6- Create an Extended Partition from the un-partitioned space you already have.

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/picture.php?albumid=2140&pictureid=7135[/IMG]


7- Create three partitions: root, home and swap.
I'd recommend to read this as well: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowtoPartition](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowtoPartition)

8- The most important thing that many might forget or don't pay much attention to is the Installation of the Boot Loader.
Makes sure to install Ubuntu's bootloader in the MBR of your HDD. That would over-write XP's boot loader but don't ever worry about it. GRUB2 is an amazing boot loader that has lots of features.

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/picture.php?albumid=2140&pictureid=7148[/IMG]


For more information, please read this: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

9- You're done.

Of course there are some other details I'd love to mention but I'm in a hurry and have to go now. I'm writing a guide for Dualbooting but that might take sometime, I have tons of things to do before that.

> Linux without CD - will research those - sounds interesting to try.
Not without CD, it's the LiveCD.
This is how you create one: [http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/download)

The LiveCD is a wonderful feature. Instead of installing an OS just to try it and have a look, you could do that without doing any changes to your HDD.

Enjoy and please let us know if you need more help :)

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2010-12-16
If you just want XP on there, put the Live CD in and boot. Choose try ubuntu, go to system > administration > gparted. Delete all partitions EXCEPT your NTFS one. Grow your NTFS to fill the whole disk.

Insert your XP CD and boot. When prompted choose recovery console. At the prompt do:
```
fixmbr
fixboot
```

You should be able to boot into XP. Try your live CDs and see what works for you.

BTW: Welcome to the world of Linux!

---

### Post by petereview on 2010-12-16
Amjjawad, I going to read your guide links.  Thank you for good info - very helpful! I did try out the live cd without install.  The Unbuntu 10.10 looks like the winner with all the desktop features and tons of compatible software.   
Theozzlives, dude thx extra option. I printed it out to keep handy if that time arrives. cool!
Actually, I am so impressed with this Unbuntu 10.10 and such cool people on the forum.  I will be talking to my school about converting to Edubuntu as well.  If we get in trouble with the different hardwares - I will have my arsenal of options thanks to all of you! :)

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2010-12-17
> **petereview said:**
> I will have my arsenal of options thanks to all of you! :)

Yes indeed. Just let us know if you need anything ;)

You most welcome and I agree with you about telling your friends about Edubuntu/Ubuntu/Linux :)

---

