---
title: "[10.04][Intel GMA]Video Install Issues"
date: 2010-06-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Brandonn on 2010-06-13
New-ish to Linux, tried it before and was overwhelmed. I bought an Acer 751h for my wife, and due to a cross country move it is now our only computer for now. We use it just for basic Internet. This is the netbook famous for random lock-ups. It's also very slow. Linux in known for being less resource hungry than Windows. So I looked around and found Ubuntu, I tried it on the USB, 2 days without a lock-up. So whatever hardware issue this has, it's avoided by Ubuntu. And Ubuntu has a program to install software for you, like a little app store for my pc, and it searches for updates, great features!

The problem I'm having is a known issue with the video. I followed the instructions at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo)

and it worked, sorta. the resolution changed, and the brightness went to full, but it goes to the desktop, no icons or side bar. shows the default purple background, then flashes white. you can only click on stuff on the task bar, and it works, but if it's open when the flash happenes again (shows the bg a blip) whatever is open is then frozen untill the next flash.

So I'm running on the flash drive, hoping for at the least a way to not reinstall everthing (but I can if nessary) and at the most get the video working right.

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-06-13
You can try install the i915 driver that seems to help some intel gma cards I'm using an Acer Aspire One with Xubuntu has a 945gme with no problems at all

---

### Post by Brandonn on 2010-06-13
I'm gonna check out Xubuntu, I'll let you know how it works out.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-13
I'm curious about this as well.  I have an Acer Aspire One with Intel GMA 950 graphics and had been trying to check for issues on the forum.  I'll be watching this to see what happens.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Brandonn on 2010-06-14
It runs a little better, but I still don't have proper drivers. I'm afraid to try to install the other drivers as I don't want to get stuck in a loop where every time I log-in it locks up, with the only solution to reinstall.

Is there a way to "roll back" If I install drivers that are no good?

---

### Post by Brandonn on 2010-06-14
[QUOTE=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intel_GMA#Linux]GMA 500 on Linux
GMA 500 support on Linux is not optimal. The driver is developed by Tungsten Graphics, not by Intel, and the graphic core is not an Intel one, but is licensed from PowerVR. This has led to an uncertain mix of open and closed source 3d accelerated drivers, instability and lack of support.
Ubuntu is the Linux distribution that best supports GMA500 (Poulsbo), through the use of the ubuntu-mobile repository on Launchpad. Support is present for 8.04, 8.10, 9.04, 9.10 and in an experimental way for 10.04, but the installation procedure is not as simple as other drivers and can lead to many bugs.
Jolicloud, a Linux based OS optimized for netbooks, has a driver for the GMA500 built in.
Intel releases official Linux drivers through the IEGD (Intel Embedded Graphic Driver) supporting some Linux distributions dedicated to the embedded market.
GMA500 is capable of running well in Ubuntu with Compiz visual effects activated[citation needed], and is the only Intel chipset supporting hardware accelerated video decoding (including h264) through libva-api.
In November 2009, the Linux Foundation released the details of a new, rewritten Linux driver that would support this chipset and Intel's other upcoming chipsets. The Direct Rendering Manager and X.org parts would be free software, but the 3D component (using Gallium3D) will still be proprietary.[/QUOTE]

There is very little support for us netbook GMA500-ers, but they mention "Jolicloud"

[QUOTE=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jolicloud]Jolicloud is built upon Debian and Ubuntu 9.10, but is tweaked to be more suitable for computers that have weaker specifications in terms of disk storage, memory and screen size, like netbook computers.[/QUOTE]

It's suppose to have the GMA500 drivers built in. Or you could just go with Ubuntu 9.10, as that says the drivers work there as well.

I'll let you know how Jolicloud works - 3rd times a charm...

---

