---
title: "12.04 no graphics after install"
date: 2012-05-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by newbuntu12 on 2012-05-25
Installed 12.04 on a older pc and im having trouble with the graphics. when ubuntu is installing or running live it looks fine. after the install and reboot i get this message 
"your screen, graphics card, and input device settings could not be detected.." when i click ok i get a few options, all of which leave me w/ a blank "format not supported screen".
ctrl-alt-F1 (text login) works, but i still cant see anything. Ive tried Install ubuntu-desktop and flrgx too.. nothing seems to be working.:confused:

---

### Post by kc1di on 2012-05-25
Hi, 

can you go to a terminal and type in the following
```
lspci
```
the l is a lower case L not #1
then post the output here. 

Will see if we can be of help.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-05-25
If you can run live or get to a terminal see if your computer supports unity with the following.  ```
/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p
```

---

### Post by newbuntu12 on 2012-05-25
Ok, I can get to a (visible) terminal with my live cd. I did notice "unity 3D support = NO" right before i click "try ubuntu" ..now its rebooting :/  back soon with term output's
thanks

---

### Post by newbuntu12 on 2012-05-25
with lspci over live cd I get - "VGA Compatible controller: silicon intergrated systems {sis} 65k/M650/740 PCI/AGP VGA display adapter"

with /usr/lib..unity_support_test  Everything says "yes" except "Not software rendered = no" and "Unity 3d support = No"

---

### Post by kc1di on 2012-05-25
Do you get to the login screen or does in go blank on you before it get's there?

if you can get to the login screen you can try ubuntu 2d instead of ubuntu.  It may work with your card.

other than that I would suggest that perhaps lubuntu might be better suited for that old of a computer.  or maybe you can run xubuntu also.

---

### Post by newbuntu12 on 2012-05-25
No login screen, also no text only login. I know its working after Ctrl-alt-F1 > login name/pass>sudo reboot. :[
yeah, im downloading lubuntu right now. would it be worth it to try Kubuntu? could the prob just be with Unity support?

---

### Post by kc1di on 2012-05-25
> **newbuntu12 said:**
> No login screen, also no text only login. I know its working after Ctrl-alt-F1 > login name/pass>sudo reboot. :[
yeah, im downloading lubuntu right now. would it be worth it to try Kubuntu? could the prob just be with Unity support?

how much ram does it have?

---

### Post by newbuntu12 on 2012-05-26
500mb i believe. So far ive tried Ubuntu12.04 all the way down to 8.04(? hardy) Xubuntu, Lubuntu, D.S.L., Text/command line installers included... I have to be doing something terribly silly, right? this pc was running windows XP just fine originally. :/

---

