---
title: "9.04 keeps crashing with firefox"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by AlbertT on 2009-04-25
I have been crashing a lot while using firefox. I couldn't do anything besides press the restart button. The mouse works, but the keyboard and the GUI is unresponsive.

Is there a similar CTRL ALT DELETE command as in Windows? Also what could be the reason for the crashes?

Thanks

---

### Post by rlogan on 2009-04-25
I am having an issue with Firefox on one website only. The website being [www.nrl.com](www.nrl.com) it does use Flash. I have uninstalled flash, cleared cache and then reinstalled and no win as yet.

The strange this is that 2 other machines here are on Jaunty with FF 3.0.9 as well with no issues at all at this point. The issue seemed to start after the update to Firefox 3.0.8 on this machine.

The issue seems to indicate a memory leak or something of that nature. The screen goes grey and locks, then it all resumes for a period of 5-10 seconds then the memory use goes thru the roof. It has used up to 1.7Gb for firefox, in other words any remaining ram.

Is this the same in your case ????

Any help would be great

Cheers

Richard

---

### Post by Sidewinder1 on 2009-04-25
I'm running 8.04 with no problems to speak of. Under Gutsy (7.10), once in a great while, I used to get the 10-15 sec. "gray-out" in Firefox; but then it would clear and function properly, so I can't really help with that... _**However**_, I have read in many, many places that it is never, ever, a good idea to shut down  any distro of Linux by pressing the reset button. For frozen machines, try this to shut down and maintain data integrity: ( yes, I know, it's very hard on the fingers; almost requires another person or appendage) while, simultaineously holding down the following keys: CTRL, ALT, PRTSCRN, SHIFT, type in, with about 2 second intervals between each letter: REISUB (which, is course is BUSIER, spelled backwards). 
I know that you're going to think that I'm some kind of Nut, but, I swear, this works to gracefully shut down a forzen / locked machine...If you don't believe me I'm sure some other, more knowlegable Ubuntu/Linux Guru can chime in and back me up. 
Best of luck with your Firefox solution.
Side

---

### Post by AlbertT on 2009-04-26
wait so its,

CTRL + ALT + PRT SCR + SHIFT + R + E + I + S + U + B

I'll try that.

rlogan:

my firefox doesn't go gray, it just STOPS the whole machine. completely frozen.

---

### Post by themollusk on 2009-04-27
> **AlbertT said:**
> wait so its,
CTRL + ALT + PRT SCR + SHIFT + R + E + I + S + U + B
I'll try that.
rlogan:
my firefox doesn't go gray, it just STOPS the whole machine. completely frozen.

It seems like the craziest thing ever (and of course, I was skeptical,) but this worked perfectly for me on every lockup. A thousand thanks for the tip Sidewinder1! 

I was having the same hard reset crashes on a clean Jaunty install & firefox 3.09 (Nvidia 180 drivers, geforce8200.) In my case, it would crash EVERY time I tried typing a url (with that annoying autofill feature in firefox) and also whenst scrolling in firefox. I followed a tutorial to disable the firefox autocomplete address, and my crash issues appear to have gone away for now (2 days stable so far.)

---

