---
title: "Weird network problem"
date: 2009-05-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Junafani on 2009-05-02
Ok. I am having quite weird problem.

Firefox loads only Google and it works perfect, but if I try to go to any other site it won't work. It just dosen't load.
I can ping servers and I get responses.
I can't download programs via that add/remove-system as it won't start downloading.

I have sis191 gigabyte network card. I have read that it has problems with olders ubuntues, but they weren't this weird.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-05-02
Check /etc/resolv.conf to make sure the nameserver entries are the same as your router. If you still have problems, you may want to try [OpenDNS]("http://www.opendns.com/start/").

---

### Post by Junafani on 2009-05-02
File contains:
```
# Generated by networkmanager
domain Telewell.gateway
search Telewell.gateway
nameserver 192.168.0.254
```

It is same as my routers gateway.

I tried to replace it with 208.67.222.222, but it didn't allow me to save it. "You do not have permissions necessary to save the file."

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-05-02
> **Junafani said:**
> 
I tried to replace it with 208.67.222.222, but it didn't allow me to save it. "You do not have permissions necessary to save the file."

You need to edit the file as root with a 

```
sudo gedit /ect/resolv.cong
```

I suspect that the issue is DNS and you simply need to add a functioning name server to the list.

---

### Post by Junafani on 2009-05-02
Or follow instructions in OpenDNS.com :oops:

Now I have OpenDNS addresses there.

Looks like it is not working. When I tried to go to Google only that upper bar with "web,  search, map, news..." loaded, but no Google logo and no search bar.

Waited few minutes and Firefox says

"Connection interrupted
The connection to the server was reset while page was loading.
The network link was interrupted while negotiating a connection. Please try again."

Tried again and it does same thing. Now I can't access my LAN. When I go to network and see that Windows workgroup-name and click it, it dosen't open. Waiting again and: 
"Unable to mount location 
Failed to retrieve share list from server."

I have Ubuntu 9.04 if that helps.

---

