---
title: "14.04 After I login the screen gets stuck in the wallpaper where it freezes"
date: 2014-04-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by memo-caballero95 on 2014-04-20
I recently downloaded the new Ubuntu 14.04 and after a few days when I tried to access my account, right after I successfully logged in it gets stuck in the wallpaper where I can only move my cursor. I tried to fixed by reading other threads but I can't seem to install any new software through the terminal. I have ASUS N56VJ

Thanks for all the help, I only have one computer and right now is practically useless

---

### Post by su:bhatta on 2014-04-20
Please give the details of your system.
The CPU, Graphics card, Ram.

Have you been able to use Ubuntu even once?
Did you 'Try' the live session before installing?
Was everything fine in that live session if you tried?

---

### Post by memo-caballero95 on 2014-04-20
Su:bhatta
  I have a Intel Core i7 , nvidia Geforce GT 635 2GB and 8 Gb of ram

Yes when I installed it it was working fine until yesterday, the change I think brought the problem was changing the graphic driver from the Ubuntu to the Nvidia one.

Thanks

---

### Post by Brunic0 on 2014-04-29
Hi all,
i have a very similar problem on my desktop PC, the only differnce i didn't updated from previous versions. I have a nvidia graphic card GT610 with 331.62 drivers installed. The system was working fine till today. I can't say which could be the problem, if i have to guess maybe something went wrong yesterday while i was installing some libraries and libglu1-mesa-dev, libgl1-mesa-dev, libgl1-mesa-glx where needed.

If someone can help it will be great.

Thanks.

Bruno

---

### Post by su:bhatta on 2014-04-29
I dont have a nvidia card, but these threads look promising:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/17381/unity-doesnt-load-no-launcher-no-dash-appears](http://askubuntu.com/questions/17381/unity-doesnt-load-no-launcher-no-dash-appears)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/264532/revert-back-to-nouveau-drivers](http://askubuntu.com/questions/264532/revert-back-to-nouveau-drivers)

---

### Post by Brunic0 on 2014-05-02
hi all,
i am reporting a new problem, maybe not related with the discussion, but may-be yes in some sense.... follow this link: [https://devtalk.nvidia.com/default/topic/738594/cuda-setup-and-installation/cuda-6-installation-on-ubuntu-14-04/#reply](https://devtalk.nvidia.com/default/topic/738594/cuda-setup-and-installation/cuda-6-installation-on-ubuntu-14-04/#reply)
please i need help...

many thanks

Bruno

---

### Post by martial2 on 2014-06-04
I have an 
**HP Pavilion G6-2303TX Laptop (3rd Gen Ci5/ 4GB/ 500GB/ DOS/ 1GB Graph)**

Graphic Processor                                                              :AMD Mobility Radeon 7670M HD

I have used ubuntu 14.04 for about 1 month before this problem  of freezing of screen after login occured and I just have no idea that why this problem occured.
So, please suggest some solution as soon as possible.

---

### Post by 0-mf on 2014-11-21
I have installed 

Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 14.04.1 LTS
Release:    14.04
Codename:    trusty

(Which is used by LXLE Distribution)

Same problem, maybe related to some networking problems, the desktop sometimes freezes for a minute or two (mouse movement works)
Hardware: Lenovo X201 Tablet 2985 EZG

Booting with the hardware-WIFI-button to "Off" ):Pwhile connected to wired network (eth0) doesn't freeze the system that long, only a few seconds.

The problem with freezing arised out of the blue, today, after 2 weeks, more or less. 
(And as I was looking for more information in the logfiles, I realized that most of them where completely empty, with user root instead of user syslog) 

The Trusty Tahr is not so trustworthy anymore... I have to suppress vomiting my first cup of Ubuntu

---

