---
title: ".oma file format"
date: 2011-01-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Nottawa on 2011-01-30
I have a Sony Network Walkman NW-HD1 that was loaded when I still used Windows.  All the music files are .oma. I would like to be able to play them from my computer and to be able to put on new tunes I have acquired.  Where can I find a converter to change file into and out of .oma format?  When I tried to open one of the files, and the format was not recognized, Ubuntu searched the repositories, but did not find any thing to do what was needed.

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by cjhabs on 2011-01-30
> **Nottawa said:**
> I have a Sony Network Walkman NW-HD1 that was loaded when I still used Windows.  All the music files are .oma. I would like to be able to play them from my computer and to be able to put on new tunes I have acquired.  Where can I find a converter to change file into and out of .oma format?  When I tried to open one of the files, and the format was not recognized, Ubuntu searched the repositories, but did not find any thing to do what was needed.

Thanks for your help.

If the files are not DRM, people have had success with FFmpeg.

---

### Post by Nottawa on 2011-01-30
I tried WinFF as a converter and it couldn't do the conversion.  Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-01-30
```
ffmpeg -i nameoffile.oma -acoded libmp3lame -ab 320k nameofsong.mp3
```
If that doesn't do it, I don't know what will...
Damn Sony and their closed formats.

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2011-01-30
if the file is DRM encrypted then you will not be able to convert to another file format.

However, there is nothing really stopping you running an audio line from your walkman to the audio input in your sound card and recording the audio...

---

### Post by sandyd on 2011-01-30
> **davidmohammed said:**
> if the file is DRM encrypted then you will not be able to convert to another file format.

However, there is nothing really stopping you running an audio line from your walkman to the audio input in your sound card and recording the audio...
they are DRM protected. [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenMG_Audio](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenMG_Audio)

I remember having a similar player with the same issue.
I had to leave it on overnight to convert to .oma:-\"

---

### Post by Nottawa on 2011-01-31
Thanks for your help.  As much as I hate to go there, I'll do my changes through windows.  I don't know enough about coding to take what TeoBigusGeekus and make it work for me.  If I have to get around drm, I might as well use the program that I originally used to put the music on the player.:guitar:

---

