---
title: "12.04 Alternative Install - No Sound via HDMI"
date: 2013-02-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by exoscoriae on 2013-02-10
I recently set up 12.04 Alternative on a ZOTAC MAG HD-ND01 for use with XBMC with quite a lot of help from sandyD.

I have found that I have no sound however.  In doing research online I came across alsamixer, installed it, and made sure the hdmi source was no muted, and I also maxed the volume on it.  I then went into hdmi and made sure that the selected audio putput was hdmi.

At this point I don't know if the problem is inhernet to ubuntu, or just xbmc.  Are there any suggestions on how I could get ubuntu to play a noise to see if I hear that through the speakers?  If I did hear something, then I know the problem is xbmc.  If I don't hear anything, then I know the problem is with the OS.

---

### Post by drawkcab on 2013-02-10
[http://voices.canonical.com/david.henningsson/2012/04/14/audio-over-hdmi-and-displayport-in-ubuntu-12-04/](http://voices.canonical.com/david.henningsson/2012/04/14/audio-over-hdmi-and-displayport-in-ubuntu-12-04/)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-02-10
First, have the correct, proprietary GPU/Audio driver installed and working.

I had to manually set the audio device option inside XBMC to get audio over HDMI working.

Use **aplay** **-l** to see which device you need.  If the HDMI video isn't working (or the TV isn't on during boot, mind fails completely).

Examples are: 
* hw:0,3
* hw:1,0

It used to work using the selection list, but something changed after a driver update and rather than hunt over and over and over and over ... which I did and failed, I found that specifying it exactly was easier.

For my specific hardware, this [http://youresuchageek.blogspot.fr/2012/06/xbmc-install-and-config-howto-for-linux.html](http://youresuchageek.blogspot.fr/2012/06/xbmc-install-and-config-howto-for-linux.html) guide pre-solved many issues for me.

---

