---
title: "9.10 ipblock 0.27 does not autostart during boot? help plz"
date: 2010-01-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by daimaru on 2010-01-04
I cant get ipblock to autostart during boot on ubuntu 9.10 (64bit). I have checked the autostart checkbox in the ipblock gui settings, which has no effect.
I read somewhere that ipblock has to start after the firewall (or iptables? ) so it works, so i tried using /etc/rc.local and other things described below. But everytime I get this:
```
sudo ipblock -l
ipblock[5421]: error: IPblock is not running
```if i run ipblock via gui or from console using ipblock -s to start it it works, but only if if do it manually. 

```
sudo ipblock -v
IPblock 0.27
Copyright (C) 2009 Serkan Sakar <uljanow@users.sourceforge.net>

```the ipblock script that starts ipblock during boot is in /etc/init.d/ipblock
the /etc/ipblock.conf has autostart set to Yes:
```
cat /etc/ipblock.conf
AUTOSTART="Yes"
IPTABLES_CHAIN_BLOCK="INPUT OUTPUT FORWARD "
IPTABLES_CHAIN_ALLOW="INPUT OUTPUT"
LESS_MEMORY="No"
BLOCK_LIST="level1.gz ads-trackers-and-bad-pr0n.gz edu.gz spyware.gz bogon.gz "
BLOCK_LIST_INPUT=""
BLOCK_LIST_OUTPUT=""
...

```I have tried starting ipblock via /etc/rc.local by adding 
```
/usr/sbin/ipblock -s
exit 0
```before exit 0 so it would run as the last thing on boot (99). did not work.
I removed /etc/init.d/ipblock script and added my own "ipblock-start" to test if that would work.
script:
```
#!/bin/sh
/usr/sbin/ipblock -s
exit 0
```i then ran update-rc to make it start as number 99 still no luck getting ipblock to autostart.
```
sudo update-rc.d -f ipblock-start start 99 2 3 4 5  .
```

I really have no idea how to get this to run automatically, so any suggestions are welcome. In case it only works by adding a script to the Preferences->Startup Applications , I would welcome any suggestions on how to not have to type in the sudo password everytime i boot up ubuntu. 

If you need anymore info please ask  and thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by daimaru on 2010-01-07
nevermind.... did a clean install of 9.10 and it works.

---

