---
title: "12.04 install hangs at &quot;installing system&quot;"
date: 2014-04-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by riverguy99 on 2014-04-13
Two tries, different methods, same results.  Installing from usb stick done in Ubuntu Disk Creator, first time "the other way," creating my own partitions.  Second try I figured maybe I botched the partitioning somehow so I selected the side-by-side easy way.  It installs nicely about half way and then stops dead at "installing system."

This is a Dell d620 laptop.  It already had 12.04 alongside XP, dual boot, and it had so many issues that I decided to remove it and start from scratch.  It installed perfectly the first time around.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-04-13
Uncheck the box 'installing third party software'

---

### Post by riverguy99 on 2014-04-13
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> Uncheck the box 'installing third party software'

Worth a try, but it stalled at the same place.  I've run this on five computers here and it worked, so wassup with this one?!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-13
There's a history of problems with Ubuntu 12.04:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2215498](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2215498)

Please inform people about relevant past threads.

---

### Post by riverguy99 on 2014-04-13
I NEED SOME HELP WITH THIS!  :) I'm trying, or have been trying for two long days now, to do the simple task of installing Ubuntu on an XP machine as dual boot.

I have now tried 12.04, 13.10, I've tried several different USB sticks, each time I did a fresh FAT32 format and then used Ubuntu Disk Creator to create the bootable USB stick from a freshly downloaded ISO off of several different Ubuntu sites. I have tried to install using the "other way' with setting up my own partitions and I've tried it using the simple alongside XP way.

Each time, the install starts, and then hangs up somewhere along the way.  With 12.04, the usual spot was during "installing system."  With 13.10, it hangs when I get to the Ubuntu One registration, whether or not I choose to register or go in as already registered.

I've gone through this procedure like ten times now, including even installing a fresh copy of XP, just in case that might be the issue.It wasn't  I have tried the install with unchecked 3rd-part-software boxes, too, although all this went so well with the other four computers here.  It has to have something to do with this computer?  It's a Dell D620, just like two of the others I've installed 12.04 on with no issues. BTW, I also installed 12.04 on this machine and it was running sweetly for weeks until one day it would not shut down.  Then after trying the many suggestions on how to fix that issue, other things started happening to the point that I figured I may as well just start over, even if it means installing and configuring all my programs again.  So if it is the computer, it's something new.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2014-04-13
Did you do a MD5Sum check ?
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM")

---

### Post by riverguy99 on 2014-04-13
I read through the data on this procedure and it is so over my head right now that doing it all the way through without introducing yet more errors is unlikely..  Is an error here such a common occurrence that this is really necessary?  As I said in my post, I've tried downloaded ISO files from 3 different Ubuntu Web sites, so what is the chance that they all have problems of this nature?  Plus, I've installed the same ISO 12.04 on several different computers now, including this one on which I can no longer install any of them

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-04-13
So you have installed the iso successfully on other machines but hang on this one. That means the installer and iso are working, just not on this machine so there is no need to checksum. 
I don't know what the problem is, but just as a guess is it possible that the hard drive is failing?

---

### Post by riverguy99 on 2014-04-13
Anything is possible, but it's a relatively new 500GB HD, and I DID do a successful and easy install of 12.04 with the same ISO on this same computer about two weeks ago.  I installed it as a dual boot with XP and everything worked perfectly until a few days ago it would not shut down.  I ran so many different suggested Terminal sequences for that issue that other stuff started going nuts, so I just figured I'd re-install 12.04.  And that's when the shift hit the sand!  I was able to re-install XP on it this morning and that worked as it should.  There have been no other problems with this computer to indicate a HD failure.

---

### Post by riverguy99 on 2014-04-14
Well, guess what?  The tenth time was a charm.  I mananged to install 13.10, this time by not doing the Ubuntu One thing in the process.  Maybe that was what hung it up.  Anyway, thank you everyone for your help, as usual!

---

