---
title: "13.10 and Samsung Galaxy 4 phone"
date: 2013-12-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bob brazie on 2013-12-21
When I plug my phone into my Ubuntu 13.10 machine nautilus will recognize and open all files on the SD card. However. It returns an error message when I try to open .jpg files. Also .jpg thumb nails aren't showing.

I also receive an error message when trying to play any music from the phone through my computer.

"Could not load image 'IMAG0457'.jpg"

Will not open in Shotwell or Gimp either.

This is making it very difficult to manage my pictures.

I have done a Google search but find nothing helpful so I am asking for help.

Thanks in advance. Bob.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2013-12-22
I have an S3 and by default in 12.04 I could only see the root (/) of the phone and microSD in MTP mode in nautilus (or when trying other things). In PTP mode I could see files in phone storage, but nothing at all on microSD. So I installed ConnectBot (ssh client), SSHServer, and AndFTP (which can do sftp) apps on my phone for doing WiFi file transfers either way using sftp or scp (using my Linux ssh key).

I have 13.10 on a new laptop and that allows me to see all files on the S3. But as you found out, apparently you cannot display or play them directly for some reason. Shotwell (which I had never used before) just shows a blank screen. Image Viewer at least gives an error about interrupted stream. Rhythmbox couldn't seem to find music when pointed to that directory on the phone. But files copy over fine, so when I copied an image to my desktop, I could open it. And I don't even think I have playlists on the phone, just directories of artist's_name/name_of_each_album/music_files (3 albums in that case) and when I copied and pasted the artist's name folder into ~/Music/ on my laptop Rhythmbox automatically found the artist, albums, and music files.

So all you really need to do is copy the files from the phone to your computer to use them.

---

