---
title: "login screen resolution, window effects, and audio name problem"
date: 2008-06-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by constantgamer247 on 2008-06-01
i am having problems with my log in screen resolution, CD track names, and window effects 

[http://ca.youtube.com/watch?v=8UWKGcs8Vq8](http://ca.youtube.com/watch?v=8UWKGcs8Vq8) 

here is a quick video

plz help, i am on 8.04
I dont know much at all
thx in advance gabe

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2008-06-01
ok, what is the spce of your pc?

what graphics card do you have in particular?

and have you enabled the restricted drivers?

system>administration>hardware drivers

---

### Post by constantgamer247 on 2008-06-01
1, what does spce mean?

i dont know the exact name of the graphic card, my buddy gave it to me and I just put it in (cuz it was better then my old 32MB n vidia, (i re installed the OS when I put the new card in)

yes I have enabled the restricted drives (nvidia accelerated graphic driver)

gabe

---

### Post by zolero on 2008-06-01
Hi there.
for resolution and desktop effects problems, which subseqventely are related each with other: try install nvidia-xconfig, then run it as superuser (root) by typing in:

```
gksu nvidia-xconfig
```This should fix both problems. After that press Ctrl+Alt+Backspace and log in. Now you'll be able to have advanced desktop effects without those annoying traces... ;)  (your problem came from incorrect xorg.conf X-Server configuration file).

About audio tracks... This is normal since you don't have installed proper libraries and a kind of "serious" player, like xmms (which isn't in the repos, and thus i don't recommend to beginners, because it must be compiled by hand, and this is another story...), or audacious (a good alternative for xmms), or something else.

Good luck.

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-06-01
NVidia Logo is popping up at boot, thats a good indication that his drivers are installed correctly.

I'm guessing his xorg.conf file needs a bit of tweaking:

The first thing I'd recommend would be to back up the partially functional xorg.conf he has now:
```
mkdir /home/yourhome/xorgbackups
cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /home/yourhome/xorgbackups/xorg.backup
```

Then I'd remove it from the X11 folder:
```
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Then I'd replace it with a new one generated by the NVidia configurator:
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

Then I'd reboot and see if it worked:
```
sudo reboot
```

***If it doesn't work*** and leaves you at a command prompt then copy the broken file, then restore the xorg.conf file so we can continue trouble shooting:

*Backup the broken nvidia-xconfig file for inspection*
```
cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /home/yourhome/xorgbackups/xorg.broken
```

*Remove broken file from X11 folder*
```
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

*Restore the partially working xorg.conf file*
```
sudo cp /home/yourhome/xorgbackups/xorg.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf 
```

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2008-06-01
> **constantgamer247 said:**
> 1, what does spce mean?

i dont know the exact name of the graphic card, my buddy gave it to me and I just put it in (cuz it was better then my old 32MB n vidia, (i re installed the OS when I put the new card in)

yes I have enabled the restricted drives (nvidia accelerated graphic driver)

gabe

heh, sorry, typo. meant to be spec.

and go into a terminal and type lspci and post the ouptu ;)

---

### Post by constantgamer247 on 2008-06-01
> **shifty_powers said:**
> heh, sorry, typo. meant to be spec.

and go into a terminal and type lspci and post the ouptu ;)


constantgamer247@linux-box:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8366/A/7 [Apollo KT266/A/333]
00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8366/A/7 [Apollo KT266/A/333 AGP]
00:05.0 Multimedia audio controller: C-Media Electronics Inc CM8738 (rev 10)
00:09.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 50)
00:09.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 50)
00:09.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 51)
00:0d.0 Ethernet controller: 3Com Corporation 3c905B 100BaseTX [Cyclone] (rev 24)
00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233A ISA Bridge
00:11.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 06)
00:11.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 23)
00:11.3 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 23)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400] (rev b2)
constantgamer247@linux-box:~$

---

### Post by constantgamer247 on 2008-06-01
the biggest thing I want fixed is the login screen, thx

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-06-01
You have a legacy card there:
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400] (rev b2)
After looking at the Nvidia website looks like nvidia-xconfig will work fine with it.

Try the guide I posted above for you, that way if you run into problems you'll be able to revert back to your semi-functional state.

---

### Post by constantgamer247 on 2008-06-01
> **starcannon said:**
> You have a legacy card there:
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400] (rev b2)
After looking at the Nvidia website looks like nvidia-xconfig will work fine with it.

Try the guide I posted above for you, that way if you run into problems you'll be able to revert back to your semi-functional state.

ur instructions are not working, they fail at the first line im meant to put in, idk if I got all the characters right

---

### Post by zolero on 2008-06-01
**starcannon** was right. This is definitely an xorg.conf issue and his minitutor is good too.

Even so, if your problem persists I recommend another way:

1.) Go in Synaptic and **remove ANY video driver** which isn't related to nVIDIA, except for the following: **evdev, fbdev, nv, v4l, vesa, vga** (they are named **xserver-xorg-video-***)
2.) **Install envyng-gtk** from within Synaptic
3.) Launch Envy from Applications -> Sysytem, choose nVIDIA and automatic installation. Don't set up anything else in the app, just press Start. Don't panic if it says that will removing your driver kernel modules and few more things. It is OK.
4.) When Envy completes and offers to restart, press Yes.
5.) After restart and login, **rerun nvidia-xconfig** exactly how **starcannon** and I've wrote above, and that's it. Now your problems must be fixed... :D

---

### Post by constantgamer247 on 2008-06-02
right now I am w8ing for my mac book to come back from apple (worn out screen and case repair) when I get it back I will try these instrusctions, as of now this linux computer is my only one and I dont want to looses my school data

---

### Post by zolero on 2008-06-03
> **constantgamer247 said:**
> right now I am w8ing for my mac book to come back from apple [...] as of now this linux computer is my only one and I dont want to looses my school data

U can't loose anything from your precious data by following that starcannon and I have wrote you. But if u're concerned about data loss, make a backup before with Acronis True Image... :)

---

