---
title: ".Wine is not owned by you (again)"
date: 2009-03-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by asuastrophysics on 2009-03-04
hey

after typing in terminal "wine (path to program) 
i get .wine is not owned by you.

So i followed this thread here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=634075](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=634075)

i did "sudo apt-get remove wine"
when that was finished,
"sudo nautilus"
and removed the .wine folder in the home directory

then i re-installed wine and typed "winecfg" being sure to NOT use root. 
everything worked. 

Then after reboot, i get the same message again: 
".wine is not owned by you"

Am i going to have to reinstall wine every time i want to use it from now on? something seems wrong. 

would appreciate any help ;)

---

### Post by snova on 2009-03-04
I suppose there's not much point in checking who the owner is... but regardless:

```
ls -ld ~/.wine
```

This should hopefully fix it (as well as all subdirectories and files):

```
sudo chown $USER:$USER ~/.wine -R
```

(**-R** for recursive)

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2009-03-04
Seems like that could happen if you ran a wine application under sudo... that shouldn't be necessary, as all of the wine files, programs, etc, are installed in your home directory, which already has the necessary permissions.

---

### Post by asuastrophysics on 2009-04-03
i think i know what happened. wine was first installed under sudo. when i uninstalled wine, i didn't remove the "c: drive", so every application in there was owned by root in the next install.

thanks for the feedback i appreciate it ;)

---

### Post by gerber11 on 2010-12-31
Could anyone tell me how i would delete the c: drive?  
He appears to have solved the problem, but didn't show exactly how. 
I am at the same point, here.

---

