---
title: "Incorrect resolution being displayed"
date: 2009-05-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rlogan on 2009-05-25
Hi all

I have an issue with the PC not selecting the correct resolution of 1920x1080 at start up, it defaults to 1440x900. But can change this by using the NVidia X Server Settings application to the correct resolution.

I have saved the settings to the xorg.conf from the NVidia application when started as root and sudo but it does not seem to make a difference in the functioning. It does change the resolutions listed in metamodes.

The xorg.conf uses metamodes as an option where it lists the right resolution but no go.

The hardware involved is a Gigabyte GV-NX85T512HP PCI-E card which uses the NVidia GeForce 8500GT plus a Samsung Syncmaster 2233 LCD monitor.

The original xorg.conf file is listed below :-

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Sun Feb  1 20:25:37 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 61.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8500 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1920x1080 +0+0; 1680x1050 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

I have attempted to add in a Display subsection in the Screen Section as below :-

Subsection "Display"
     Depth 24
     Modes "1920x1080"  + other modes
     Viewport 0 0
EndSubSection

Also #'d out the metamode option but no go !

Any tips greatly appreciated

Thanks

Richard

---

### Post by Xero Xenith on 2009-05-25
If the settings aren't being saved properly, these steps should help:

> Run this command, it makes a backup of your xorg.conf:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```

Then go to System - Administration - NVIDIA X Server Settings. Make the changes you want, then click "Save to X Configuration File". Click "Show Preview", click inside the box, hit Control-A, then Control-C to copy all of it.

Run this:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Hit Control-A, then Control-V to paste the new config in.

I had the same problem as you, that my settings weren't being saved, but that fixed it for me. :)

If it doesn't work, you can run:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

to reverse everything.

---

### Post by rlogan on 2009-05-25
Thanks for the reply 

I have tried your suggestion already but to no avail, it is strange as I have tried all the options I know.

The xorg log shows 

(II) NVIDIA(0): Setting mode "1440x900"

And this is the resolution it starts up with, which I can't understand as there is no mention of this resolution in xorg.conf.

The log also shows that type 1 and freetype fail to load but I think this is font related ?????

Anyone got any suggestions ???

Thanks heaps

---

### Post by rlogan on 2009-05-26
It appears it may be caused by one of the config files as the correct resolution is used at the login screen but then drops to 1440x900 when the desktop comes up.

This is probably caused by importing all my folders from the old home drive to the new pc.

The big question is what file is causing the issue ?

Cheers 

Richard

---

### Post by rlogan on 2009-05-26
Problem solved !

I created a new login and it worked perfectly !

Then logged into my login and it now works perfectly from a fresh boot. So it appears gnome must have flushed the old settings out when I logged out after this. 

Would have been nice to know which file was the offender !

Thanks for your help 

Cheers 
Richard

---

