---
title: "8.04 to 8.10 Advantages"
date: 2008-12-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by aprilmot on 2008-12-06
Hello Frnds,
I have currently Ubuntu 8.04 installed in my laptop.  I came to know that ubuntu 8.10 is released.  I want to know the advantages if any for upgrading from 8.04 to 8.10.

Thank you in Advance.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2008-12-06
Better wifi support
New network manager
New fast user switch applet
A guest account
Encrypted private directory in your home folder
Tabbed file browsing in Nautilus
Plus the usual bugfixes and updated software.

I think that's most of it anyway. Not a major upgrade, really. If 8.04 is working well for you, then there's no real need to update. It's entirely up to you.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-12-06
if you decide to go with 8.10, i recommend doing a fresh install. it's always best.

---

### Post by pablolie on 2008-12-06
You can take a look at the new features from here: [http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/intrepid/beta#New%20Features%20since%20Ubuntu%208.04](http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/intrepid/beta#New%20Features%20since%20Ubuntu%208.04)

# New Features since Ubuntu 8.04

   1. GNOME 2.24
   2. X.Org 7.4
   3. Linux kernel 2.6.27
   4. Encrypted private directory
   5. Guest session
   6. Network Manager 0.7
   7. DKMS
   8. Samba 3.2
   9. PAM authentication framework
  10. Totem BBC plugin

I upgraded 2 machines to 8.10 (32- and 64-bit) because I was reshuffling systems anyhow. You truly will not see a lot of difference. I find nthe interface is perhaps a tiny little bit crisper in 8.10, but that may just have been my 8.04 setup.

One annoyance I had in 8.04 that seems to have disappeared in 8.10 is the vanishing sound, at least for now.

If you are happy with 8.04 and none of the new features are huge deals for you, I would stay with 8.04 for now.

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-12-06
It all depends on what you want, and it isn't a legal requirement that you upgrade. 

The above posts mention a number of improvements and for some it is always good to have the newer versions of apps. For me the improvements in the network manager alone have enough to move to 8.10. However if 8.04 works for you, stick with it.

:cool:

---

### Post by porchrat on 2008-12-06
I find 8.10 quite a bit slower than 8.04 though

---

### Post by Kellemora on 2008-12-06
Hi Aprilmot

Technically 8.10 is NOT an upgrade from 8.04 which is an LTS series release, 8.10 is a different OS series.

8.04 is of the stable LTS releases and will still be supported at least six whole months after 8.10 is dead and gone.  

8.04 will be supported through April 2011 or the month date of the following LTS release date.
8.10 is only supported to 2010

TTUL
Gary

---

### Post by linux_tech on 2008-12-06
Upgrades do not always go so well.  Better to install new.

---

