---
title: "11.04 Wireless Internet Not Working - Samsung N130"
date: 2011-05-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by the_kernel on 2011-05-14
[COLOR="Navy"]**TL;DR / UPDATE:** So... some weird stuff is happening, and I don't understand why. The wireless card on my Samsung N130 now registers and connects fine to my router (confirmed this by looking at devices connected to my router, etc.) On one or two sites (one being teamliquid.net) the pages load, but *really friggin' slowly*. On all other websites Chromium just starts not responding (the window goes dark and a dialogue pops up telling me to Force Quit the applicaton). Before this a message about not being able to find the DNS address of sites came up, however I followed the steps Chromium told me to, by disabling pre-fetching the DNS server address. This is really starting to **** me off now, as I've tried everything I can think of and / or find; despite these things working for others, they don't seem to work for me, and not a lot of discussion has taken place on this topic for 11.04.[/COLOR]

So, I got a new notebook recently, the Samsung N130. I am very new to Linux and Ubuntu, but I decided to install Natty onto my new notebook as I had been wanting an opportunity to try it out for a while. :)

At first I could not connect at all to my WiFi network at home, which I frequently use on a number of mobile devices. However, having applied the steps listed under 'WiFi' [here](http://www.greenhughes.com/content/installing-ubuntu-1010-samsung-nb30-touchscreen-netbook) the icon on the top panel shows I have a connection to my network (wireless), but when it comes to actually loading pages in Chromium or Firefox, nothing happens. The loading icon will just continually spin, with one exception: the main page of YouTube will load, albeit very slowly.

Having looked at various threads on wireless not working in 10.10 for the Samsung N130, I used the lspci command, and it returned this:

```
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GME Express Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GME Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 3 (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e2)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GBM (ICH7-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801GBM/GHM (ICH7 Family) SATA IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family SMBus Controller (rev 02)
02:00.0 Network controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8192E Wireless LAN Controller (rev 01)
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 02)

```

Ubuntu (natty narwhal) is the only OS I have installed on this notebook, and am currently posting tethered to an ethernet cable. :(

Thanks for taking the time to read this,

**the_kernel**

***EDIT:** Just to add, I have tried the script for 10.10 (indeed, I've tried everything in the thread) that commandergc mentioned and linked to in [this thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592262) in post **#12**.*

***EDIT 2:** I can now load [www.teamliquid.net](www.teamliquid.net) (albeit slowly) through WiFi. I'm getting a little confused as to why this is, as no other websites work. I would say it was due to the browsing cache, however I visited threads on the teamliquid.net forum that I hadn't seen before.*

---

### Post by frankbooth on 2011-05-14
Did a quick search and found this:

"howto: get wireless working on samsung n130 - realtek 8192"
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1383446](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1383446)

---

### Post by the_kernel on 2011-05-14
> **frankbooth said:**
> Did a quick search and found this:

"howto: get wireless working on samsung n130 - realtek 8192"
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1383446](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1383446)
Thank-you for a doing a forum search for me, but I had already done so. (^_^)

The thread you linked is about getting the driver for the wireless card in karmic (9.10) by installing the kernel from lucid (10.04) which contains the driver. I wish to use WiFi with Natty Narwhal (11.04).

As I said in the OP, I have followed the steps that I linked, which included downloading a driver that should make the wireless card work in 11.04 and blacklisting two drivers so that the correct one loads. This is what I have done.

If anybody knows whether installing the kernel from lucid in natty is possible, whether it would work, and whether it might fix the wireless (though I don't see how 'down-grading' the kernel would do so) I would really appreciate any feedback regarding that.

If anything I have said doesn't make sense or is down right incorrect then I apologise; as I stated in the OP I have little experience with Linux OSes, and very little with 11.04 Ubuntu.

**the_kernel**

---

