---
title: "8.04 Keeps Getting Worse"
date: 2009-05-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by MercurySwitch on 2009-05-17
After any brief period of inactivity (as low as a few seconds without mouse movement) my computer will freeze.  After key press or mouse movement and a one-second lag the computer will 'wake up.'  At this point I will lose internet connection even though the network icon still shows active connection.  

This started as a once-every-session-or-so bug.  Now I lose connection upwards of twenty times in an hour.  If my computer is left idle for more than five minutes I experience full kernel panic with Caps Lock blink.  

These problems occur if I'm actively using the internet or not.  If I disable my wifi it still occurs.  If I don't reconnect the network it still occurs.  

The more updates I install the worse this seems to get.  Or it may just be that over time whatever problem my distro/computer has is worsening.  

Does this sound like something anyone has dealt with?  

Is it fixable?  

Would upgrading to 8.10 be a solution? 

What's the best reference site for uninstalling this distro and going back to 7.10?  Last case option, but at least on 7.10 I could use the internet.

Acer Aspire 5610
1.70 gHz Dual Core
2 gb RAM
120 gb Hard Drive

---

### Post by jowilkin on 2009-05-17
Maybe a hardware bug?  Installing a new OS would help diagnose it.

Why not install 9.04 and see if that's better instead of 8.10?

---

### Post by diablo75 on 2009-05-17
Kernel bugs like this, I would think, have a great chance of going away if you use the latest versions available.  That is to say, try burning off a copy of 9.04 to boot off of and try it out.  If it works out better, consider doing a fresh install with it.

---

### Post by MercurySwitch on 2009-05-17
I may try.  My data is all burned to discs so I'm not opposed to just upgrading.  

I had NONE of these problems until I upgraded from 7.10 last month.  This laptop gets heavy usage.  It could be a hardware problem, but I never had any signs before this upgrade.

---

### Post by MercurySwitch on 2009-05-17
Can anyone link a reputable site for instructions on doing a fresh install?  Or do I just burn the .iso and click 'Fresh Install' or something equally self-evident?

---

### Post by diablo75 on 2009-05-17
> **MercurySwitch said:**
> Can anyone link a reputable site for instructions on doing a fresh install?  Or do I just burn the .iso and click 'Fresh Install' or something equally self-evident?

You'll burn an ISO to a CD and then boot from that CD.  You can start by selecting "Try Ubuntu Without Making Changes To My PC" or something like that, and this will load the entire OS from the disc for personal testing purposes.  Once satisfied, all you have to do is double-click on the Install icon on the desktop and proceed with the on-screen dialog box.

Follow this guide for more details:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GraphicalInstall](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GraphicalInstall)

---

### Post by mapes12 on 2009-05-17
It may be your wifi device. Are you using a windoze driver via ndiswrapper or a natively supported device? How did you upgrade. Via Network Manager or a fresh install?

---

### Post by NHArticleTen on 2009-05-17
maybe it's something to do with Acer hardware?

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1161920](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1161920)

---

### Post by MercurySwitch on 2009-05-18
Thank you for the link.  

I upgraded to 8.04 using the update manager.  

I am not certain what wifi drivers I am now using.  

I just upgraded to 8.10 and as soon as it was complete the mini freeze happened again.  I just upgraded to 9.04 using update manager.  Will post results this evening.

---

### Post by MercurySwitch on 2009-05-18
Installed 9.04, same problem.  

How can I find out which wifi driver I am using?

Output of lspci

05:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection (rev 02)

---

### Post by samden on 2009-05-18
Try downloading a .iso for 9.04, burning it to cd, and doing a clean install. I'm no expert but as far as I can see upgrading from 7.10 - 8.04 - 8.10 - 9.04 is a convoluted way to get 9.04 and whatever is causing the problem may just be hanging around. A clean install is always better, and may fix it. 

I've found 9.04 works far better with wireless than 8.04, it just worked straight off for me wheras I had to fiddle with drivers in 8.04 with the same laptop.

---

### Post by Franc88 on 2009-05-19
I too had issues with my wireless working after I update using Update Manager.  Prior to the update, my 8.04 wireless worked fine.  Now, I can't run my wireless without the ndiswrapper for 8.04.  I however, have never had issues like what you are experiencing.

I'm currently still using 8.04 and holding off on installing JJ until most of the issues being reported are resolved.

I've learned my lesson the hard way, if it ain't broke, why the heck would you break it? :)

---

### Post by skymera on 2009-05-19
What is your graphics card?

Installing the correct driver may help with the freezes

---

### Post by samden on 2009-05-20
The other advantage of burning a live cd is that you can test everything works fine from running the cd, before installing, rather than just clicking upgrade and hoping for the best!

---

### Post by Astarroth on 2009-05-20
My two cents .. do a fresh install of 9.04. That way you are not bringing the problem into the new install. IF it still happens I would start thinking hardware issue.

---

### Post by MercurySwitch on 2009-05-21
Thank you all for the responses so far.  

I will try downloading the live cd tomorrow through Windows.  

My video card is as follows:
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)

I'm not sure how to find what driver I am using.  

I would like to try tinkering/replacing the drivers for the wifi and video card drivers if either could be the cause.  If that fails, a clean install will probably be in order.  Not sure why I'm so adverse to the idea :(

---

### Post by meganox on 2009-05-21
You should do the clean install, if it is a software problem you may be bringing it with you when you upgrade.  I wouldn't bother with 8.10, seems to have a lot of problems.  People seem to agree 9.04 is generally better, but there do seem to be some regressions with certain hardware, so keep a 8.04 cd around as well.

If you use 9.04 read this article on Intel graphics cards:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1130582](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1130582)

Hope it works out.

---

### Post by muteXe on 2009-05-21
Maybe just for me, but out of the last 3 versions 8.04 has been loads more reliable and stable than both 8.1 and 9.04.
Maybe just me tho...

---

### Post by longtom on 2009-05-21
> **muteXe said:**
> Maybe just for me, but out of the last 3 versions 8.04 has been loads more reliable and stable than both 8.1 and 9.04.
Maybe just me tho...

...and me...

---

### Post by rob2uk on 2009-05-21
This could still be a hardware issue, possibly memory.

On the bottom of the laptop will be some cover plates held in with 2 screws each. Find the one that covers the memory, and check how many RAM modules are in there.

If you have two, then the next bit is easy -

Unplug the mains adapter and remove the battery.

Take out one of the RAM modules, replace the battery and the cover plate, and try Ubuntu again.

If it solves the problem then you know you have faulty RAM.

If the problem still happens, repeat the process, but swap the RAM you took out with the one you left in, and try running Ubuntu again.

If you still have the problem, replace the RAM and continue looking for other causes

---

### Post by halitech on 2009-05-21
before pulling memory, boot from one of the Ubuntu Live CDs and run the memtest and see if it fails or locks up. If it still locks up then it has nothing to do with Ubuntu but hardware.

---

### Post by MercurySwitch on 2009-05-22
Just booted from a live CD and the problem is gone.  I can browse the internet without any issue.  

I will try a fresh install after I back up some data.  

Thanks to everyone that posted on this thread.  You've all been a great help.

---

### Post by MercurySwitch on 2009-05-22
Clean install.  The problem has returned.  It's not happening as much now, but after ten minutes of surfing I had to reconnect to my network.  

It didn't happen at all with the live CD.  Spent 30 minutes surfing and no lock whatsoever.  

Where can I start figuring this out?

---

### Post by MercurySwitch on 2009-05-22
9.04 still has frequent disconnects from wireless internet.  

05:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection (rev 02)

Can someone suggest a route for exploring this issue?  I can't find a similar problem to this one on google search, but I don't know if I'm using the correct terms for the search.

---

