---
title: "11.10 Thunderbird question"
date: 2011-10-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by MadMonkey1966 on 2011-10-13
I am running 11.04 at present, and am going to upgrade to 11.10 either later or in the morning.

I already have Thunderbird on my PC as my default mail program (Evolution is still installed, just do not use it).

So, my upgrade question is...

As Thunderbird comes as default email client in 11.10 what will happen to my mail ??

At present its all in Thunderbird, all sorted into folder with the filters etc... Will my mail be safe ? Will it get moved into the new Thunderbird ? and will i end up with 2 versions, the one i have, and the new one ?

I guess i can not be the only one thinking this. All a bit confusing really ?

Thanks for any help or advice \\:D/

---

### Post by cavh on 2011-10-13
Always run a full backup of data before you upgrade. I don't know where Thunderbird stores the data, but presuming it's in your home folder you 'll be fine as you long **[COLOR="Red"]don't[/COLOR]** format any partitions. BUT TAKE A FULL BACKUP REGARDLESS! :)

and also read this page carefully [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes")

You won't end up with two versions of Thunderbird.

---

### Post by kolinab on 2011-10-13
Your mail, extensions, filters, and all associated profile information is stored in /home/USERNAME/.thunderbird. 

Back it up. When you install your fresh copy of 11.10, thunderbird will find your settings and mail on the first boot.

You will not have two versions of thunderbird. You will have one new version, which will find all the data it needs in your old /.thunderbird folder. Depending on what version of Thunderbird you are running now, you may or may not encounter problems with any extensions you installed not being compatible with the newer version. Thunderbird will automatically search for the updated versions of these extensions for you.

I recommend that if you have any system tray/mail checking/minimise to tray extensions installed that you remove or disable them, as with the Thunderbird unity integration extension that comes packaged in Oneiric they seem rather unnecessary.

Good luck and post back if you have more questions.

---

### Post by MadMonkey1966 on 2011-10-13
**kolinab & cavh** - thanks for your replies. I will do a backup, and do the install in the morning, just to give myself time, and a clear head lol.

Many Thanks again both, i will post back and let you know :)

---

### Post by cavh on 2011-10-13
By the way, suggest also you update before you upgrade. In a terminal window, this command will update your package list and then do the upgrade (DO THE BACKUP BEFORE DOING THIS):

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```

It will prompt you for your password - this is your standard login password. Note that you will not see any characters echoed on the screen as you type, but rest assured that the terminal is capturing your input regardless.

---

### Post by MadMonkey1966 on 2011-10-14
> **cavh said:**
> By the way, suggest also you update before you upgrade. In a terminal window, this command will update your package list and then do the upgrade (DO THE BACKUP BEFORE DOING THIS):

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```It will prompt you for your password - this is your standard login password. Note that you will not see any characters echoed on the screen as you type, but rest assured that the terminal is capturing your input regardless.

I did not have a chance to do this. I turned on this morning and got a message jump up about upgrading, so i thought i would go for it as i had done a Full Back-up last night.

All went without a problem. I have only one Thunderbird and it found all my Message/Folders etc... so i am just trying to get used to it now. First impression is i do not like this layout, It was so easy before just clicking on the bottom row to select which Desktop i want OR which window i want on that Desktop. Will give it another day, but may revert back to the Classic Gnome desktop.

Thanks for your help...Ian

---

