---
title: "10.10 Broadcom drivers"
date: 2011-03-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-03-21
Well, I never thought I'd be posting a question about wireless drivers after all these years, but here I go (I'm humble - I need help!):
 
I have the Broadcom drivers in Windows XP, but I have to let Windows control the connection, not the Broadcom user interface, in order to get WPA2.  I couldn't even see the device in Ubuntu (unfortunately the LED for whether the wireless is enabled of not is not working).  I can use wireless on the laptop, but can't hard-wire to the router - I set it all up, but the router is in my brother in-laws office in the upstairs while I rent the basement.  So.......knowing that there are restricted drivers for the Broadcom 43xx series, what I want to do is find a way to download what ever I might need to in Windows, then install it in Ubuntu.  I know usually an apt-get update is run, then you look under the additional drivers, but is there a way to download whatever the additional drivers downloads and install it myself since I can't hard wire?
 
Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by migs73 on 2011-03-21
have a look here;

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-763995.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-763995.html)

seems to be the same issue.


Hope it helps,

Mike :)

EDIT actually I think this is probably more what you need

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx#b43%20-%20No%20Internet%20access](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx#b43%20-%20No%20Internet%20access)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2011-03-21
I think what you need to do is get the driver on a CD and then set the CD as one of the software sources in Synaptic or update manager. Then Additional Drivers will find it when it can not access the online repository. I think. Look through the link provide by migs73.

Regards.

---

### Post by bkratz on 2011-03-21
If you still are having problems, see about half way down this page

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx)

Under the heading "STA - No Internet access"

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-03-22
The big trick is this:  I have to follow the path for the legacy driver - my card is  a 4306.  I first tried using ndiswrapper, but the device says no firmware.  I went through the guide, installed the firmware cutter, the patch, downloaded the 2 "driver" object files and installed them.  Still nothing in additional drivers, however the Windows driver loaded by ndiswrapper seemed to work once the firmware .o files, etc., where loaded to the /lib/firmware directory.  Ubuntu Update came up, needing to do a lot of updates since it was a new install of 10.10.  Once those update where done, I tried additional drivers again and this time it showed the b43-legacy driver.  I enabled it, then rebooted.  Apparently there was a kernel update in the updates that were downloaded and installed, which resulted in both the ndiswrapper driver and the b43-legacy driver not being found again.  I went through the processes for just the b43-legacy so I wouldn't have ndiswrapper interfering, but network manager doesn't show anything for wireless now, including the "Enable Wireless" option.  So, I'm going to deactivate the b43-legacy driver and use ndiswrapper to completely reinstall the Windows driver to see if it will work again with the firmware that got loaded.  If so, that will have to do, EXCEPT the speed on the connection never goes above 1mb.  It would be nice if it went at least at "b" speeds, but the "g" speed of 54mps would be even better.
 
If anyone has any other ideas on this I would really appreciate it.
 
For those that have helped so far - thank you!

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-03-24
Dang, I'm feeling really dumb now.  I've got the Windows driver loaded again via ndiswrapper and have loaded the 2 firmware object files again.  Now, instead of just connecting, the "local" wireless networks, including mine, show, but they are grayed out so I can't click on them.  I went in via network manager and manually created the connection, at which point sometimes it connects, other times it tells me it requires a password but doesn't give me an option to enter it.  Clicking cancel or connect on that screen results in the network manager icon disapearing until I reboot.  Even when it does connect via my manual definition, it's as if it's not finding any DNS servers, as everything comes back as unknown.  I thought maybe the networks were greyed out from roaming not being enabled (although it seemed unlikely since it was finding networks), but I can't find the option for roaming anywhere.  I tried making the connection available to all users, but still no avail.
 
If anyone can be of any help to this guy who is feeling dumber by the minute, it would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by RubenAlonzo on 2011-03-24
Try this for something new, try re-installing the device but with a generic driver or at least try the same driver but from a new user account. It's kinda outta left field but sometimes it the oddest stuff that works.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-03-24
Thanks for the reply - I'll give that a try tomorrow.  Been sick today so going to bed way early.  I've even considered just reinstalling Ubuntu, so that what ever I've done gets cleaned out, then install the driver with ndiswrapper again (no internet connection - the instructions for installing the restricted drivers with no internet connection don't seem to be working for me.  Once I've got the driver installed via ndiswrapper, I'll install the 2 firmware object files and the patch and cross my fingers.
 
I feel  pretty stupid - I've help several people with their wireless, then I get another laptop with a different adapter in it (older used laptop) I can't even make my own work!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-03-25
The b43 driver for the Broadcom card is actually on the install disk. STA is not. These are the ones to use, naturally, rather than ndiswrapper which is superseded for Broadcom (for the most part) by b43. (Broadcom cards were a nightmare, now they're easy, if you have a hardwire ethernet connection that is! Catch 22 ;))

I don't remember how to go about getting the b43 from the CD. You could try sticking the Ubuntu install cd in then adding it as a software source then looking for 'b43'. There is info on how to do this out there but don't remember where.

Also, under the IPv4 settings, there is 'Require IPv4 addressing for this connecton to complete'. Unless you are using IPv6 make sure there is no tick in that box. 

If I think of anything else I'll let you know. Easiest would be to go to a friend's house, plug in an ethernet cable, and driver and firmware should be downloaded and installed in a couple of clicks. Good luck. ;)

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-03-26
Well, I got it to work, but now my CPU is running at almost 100% - I get a lot of grayed screens and things are SLOW.
 
Here's what I did - perhaps someone can find the flaw in it so I can "get my cpu back".

[LIST]
[*]Did a completely new install, this time of 10.04 in case 10.10 was a problem
[*]Followed the how-to that was pointed to way back in the beginning of this thread to install the firmware
[*]Unlike the how-to, mine didn't show a driver in restricted drivers now
[*]loaded ndiswrapper and ndisgtk
[*]via ndisgtk, loaded in the Windows XP drivers using bcmwl5a.inf and bcmwl5.
[/LIST]The adapter then started working and I was able to download all the updates and everything seemed to be running good. Then I rebooted. Adapter shows, back to the showing my wireless but not letting me connect. So, I did the following:
[LIST]
[*]via ndisgtk, removed my device
[*]via command line, rmmod'd ndiswrapper
[*]via command line, modprobe'd b43legacy
[/LIST]Now it was working again, even after several reboots. However, ever since doing those 3 steps to get it working my CPU is just nuts and everything is really SLOW. I can only assume it has something to do with the driver.
 
Bucky Ball - thanks so much for replying!! I have a question maybe you can answer for me on all of this: the how-to says I need the b43-legacy driver for my adapter (4306). Yet everything else I have read, and as you indicated, says I should be using the STA driver. I can only assume that's at least part, if not all, of my problem. Do you know a way to install the STA driver without a connection?
 
Thanks!
 
EDIT:  Just searched the install disk again and found b43 kernel source of some sort under the restricted folder.  I assume if I install build-essential and that package that I will then be able to run the typical configure, make and make install.  Going to try that and see what happens a little later today.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-03-26
EDIT: I'm taking out my original post text here - somehow the b43legacy restricted driver was installed and activated, and my text here would have been useless. 
 
Thanks everyone for your support and instructions!!

---

### Post by bkratz on 2011-03-26
Congratulations--sure am glad you got it (now you can go back to helping others solve theirs!!!)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-03-26
Great, but ...

ndiswrapper and b43 together? I would say you are using one or the other and don't need the unused one. Might be why it is slow to start; choosing the right one. Issue this command in a terminal:

```
lshw -C network
```What driver does it say your card is using?

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-03-27
Okay, I'm totally confused now. After all this time of helping others with their wireless, I can't believe how badly I've done with this.
 
I know I followed the previously posted steps to get my wireless working. However, something happened somewhere, and I don't have a clue where or how, such that ndisgtk shows NO DEVICE loaded by ndiswrapper. So, I check the list hardware and it shows the driver as b43-pci-bridge. I'm going HUH??? So I connect to the net, open Additional Drivers and it shows I have b43legacy installed and active. Again, HUH?? I swear I never did anything that I know about to have accomplished this magic. Also, I do know I need the legacy driver because of the model of my card.
 
So, as decent as I am at usually figuring this stuff out, I'm completely lost as to what happened and when. At least it seems to be working fine and I'm actually not using ndiswrapper anymore (don't know how that happened).
 
If anyone can explain to me what the heck happened that I ended up with the restricted driver, I'd sure like to know!!  I *really* want to know as I'm afraid to give anyone else advise now!

---

### Post by bkratz on 2011-03-27
Well, you said earlier that your device was a 4306, but you never did say whether it was a rev 2 or 3. Rev2 devices do use the b43-legacy but rev 3 can use the b43.

Reference
[http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#Known_PCI_devices](http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#Known_PCI_devices)

It might be interesting to see the output that Bucky Ball requested to see what is actually driving the card.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-03-27
Hummmmm, I don't know what rev it actually is. Do you think I'm okay with the way things are now? This is one time I'm really lost at this, and I really do appreciate the help!
 
BTW - just so anyone reading knows - when I said earlier that I'm usually pretty good at wireless I didn't mean I was great at helping people or anything.  I've just normally been able to do what I need to get mine working and I've been able to help some people on the way.  I didn't know if that post in the thread made me sound vain or something, but it wasn't meant the way it reads to me now.

---

### Post by bkratz on 2011-03-27
> **wep940 said:**
> Hummmmm, I don't know what rev it actually is. Do you think I'm okay with the way things are now? This is one time I'm really lost at this, and I really do appreciate the help!
 
BTW - just so anyone reading knows - when I said earlier that I'm usually pretty good at wireless I didn't mean I was great at helping people or anything.  I've just normally been able to do what I need to get mine working and I've been able to help some people on the way.  I didn't know if that post in the thread made me sound vain or something, but it wasn't meant the way it reads to me now.


I don't think I would mess with success. But I would still be curious to see what modules are loaded and used and what the driver is (pure curiosity), but I break a lot of stuff.  Anyway, I did not take you post as vain and I suspect no one else did either.

---

