---
title: "12.10 lenovo x220t black screen before bios?"
date: 2013-02-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jouley on 2013-02-08
Hello world,

Screen is black (back light still works, can Fn+home/end to change light intensity), everything else seems to be working. 

Issue was noticed Feb 2nd, last Saturday. Went afk for a while (maybe > 1 hr, not sure). Came back and if I recall correctly, my lid was still open. So, I was using it, left, ate, come back, black screen. 

Since then, I've only been able to connect through a VGA cable to an external monitor. From this, the screen only appears on the external monitor. The first thing on the screen is the ubunto logo with the 5 dots shows up.

Recently, I noticed that an error reading:

"the disk drive for /dev/mapper/cryptswap1 is not ready yet or not present."

The start up continues, and enters into login normally. This is seen through the external monitor. The Lenovo monitor simply lights up at start.

checking the /var/log/dpkg.log and dpkg.log.1 files indicates that nothing was installed on the Feb. 2nd. On Jan.1 30th it went through a whole bunch of updates though. Nothing abnormal I think, but computer has been fine until the 2nd.

also, from about this computer

Memory 7.7 GiB
processor: intel Core i7-2620M CUP @ 2.70GHz x 4
Graphics: intel Sandybridge Mobile 
OS type: 64-bit
Disk 237.8 GB

System was installed through LiveUSB sometime last year, not duel booting. What I really dislike is that the external monitor doesn't show anything until the ubuntu screen shows. I'm getting no clues as to what is happening up until that point. The laptop monitor shows nothing before or after the back light turns on. No bios text appears on monitor screen, but everything else seems to work fine - minus the whole screen thing.

please help,
-jouly

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-02-08
Welcome to the forums.

Could be HW-related. If dual boot, does monitor work with different OS? Can you see in Windows? If this is not possible, try booting into LiveCD. If screen doesn't turn on for all OSes then it's not an OS problem but hardware. You may have burned-out display circuitry or loose display connection. This is just one among many scenarios, so you need to play detective.

---

### Post by jouley on 2013-02-12
> **DuckHook said:**
> Welcome to the forums.

Could be HW-related. If dual boot, does monitor work with different OS? Can you see in Windows? If this is not possible, try booting into LiveCD. If screen doesn't turn on for all OSes then it's not an OS problem but hardware. You may have burned-out display circuitry or loose display connection. This is just one among many scenarios, so you need to play detective.

Good evening DuckHook,

No, the x220 does not come with a CD tray, which is why LiveUSB was mentioned.
No, this is not a duel boot system , as was alluded to when OP wrote, "not duel booting."

---

### Post by jouley on 2013-02-12
Some updates:

Been using [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/BlankScreen](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/BlankScreen) as my starting point for troubleshooting.

Started to look at log files,came across: from Feb2, via /etc/pm/sleep.d 

> /etc/pm/sleep.d/10_unattended-upgrades-hibernate suspend suspend: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/55NetworkManager suspend suspend:
Having NetworkManager put all interaces to sleep...Failed.

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/55NetworkManager suspend suspend: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/60_wpa_supplicant suspend suspend:
Failed to connect to wpa_supplicant - wpa_ctrl_open: No such file or directory

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/60_wpa_supplicant suspend suspend: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/75modules suspend suspend:Also on Feb2 via pm-suspend.log :

> /etc/pm/sleep.d/10_unattended-upgrades-hibernate suspend suspend: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/55NetworkManager suspend suspend:
Having NetworkManager put all interaces to sleep...Failed.I noticed that in the var/crash folder 3 files [2 of 3 which have been uploaded] exist, but I can't seem to access them. These crash files are also from Feb. 2nd. The problem could be that the system was trying to install something, but canceled halfway through due to a suspension? Since nothing was fully installed, this could explain why the dpkg.log had nothing recorded for the 2nd of Feb. But it's weird because it seems that items are recorded in dpkg.log as they are getting install. 

From shutdown, the back light on the laptop monitor runs for 20s, dims, then the ubuntu screen shows up through external monitor, and I need to do Fn+Home to brighten back-light. This is normal behavior. If however; I hold down the blue ThinkVantage button I hear the typical "beep" and nothing shows on the external monitor (and of course the laptop monitor). But, I assume the system yields the Startup Interrupt Menu. Doing nothing from here resumes "normal" start up and Ubuntu screen comes up, pressing F12 quickly resumes the "normal" start up. Take note that "normal" start up now means nothing shows up on laptop monitor. At this point I'm back to blindly going through a BIOS menu. It's probably unwise to click about on this menu without vision.

I'm tempted to just reinstall everything through LiveUSB, but then again, I'm unsure if this will fix the problem considering black screen occurs before ubuntu even starts. Also, doing that, I still would not have diagnosed the problem. I don't want to quit.. :-({|=

Also, everyone keeps talking about a xorg.conf file. There is no such file within my folders. Is this common?

edit:
*On another note, I just found out I can force a "blank" screen through All Settings >> Display GUI menu and by toggling laptop slider to off. Toggling it on, simply reverts it to its "black" screen state.

**found /x11/xorg.conf.d

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-02-12
I've only had one such problem on an ancient laptop that corrected itself after several reboots, so I never explored further and doubt I can be of much help here.

FWIW, your problem sounds like it is more along [this]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Debugging/Backlight#Thinkpads") vein. Can't be more helpful because I am frankly out of my depth on this one and have never owned any Lenovos/Thinkpads. You can at least try some of the fixes recommended in the link. Make sure you have everything backed up while you still have one working monitor.

BTW, /x11/xorg.conf.d is not the same as /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Unless you know exactly what you are doing, /etc/X11/xorg.conf should not be monkeyed with, and /x11/xorg.conf.d should never be changed at all. /etc/X11/xorg.conf is the old file that was read at login to configure your X screen. It is no longer used, its functions now being taken over by a collection of other files. However, if it does exist, then it trumps any other settings you have. Power users tend to create such a file as a convenient way to tinker and reconfigure their desktop environment. It is not the problem in your case because your screen refuses to come up at boot, whereas xorg.conf is not even referenced until login, which is well after the boot process.

---

