---
title: "8.04 sudo apt-get"
date: 2009-05-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by aszxcv on 2009-05-23
when you used this command where exactly do this program get stored i mean the files for the program. is it usr/bin or elsewhere?

---

### Post by Ms_Angel_D on 2009-05-23
do you mean the the installed program?

What exactly is the problem your experiencing?

---

### Post by aszxcv on 2009-05-23
yes the install program

just for my general knowledge   for when i download modules for my python programming etc.....

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-05-23
The executable for apt-get is /usr/bin/apt-get. Hope that's what you meant.

---

### Post by aszxcv on 2009-05-23
i dont think my question is clear. if you download a program such as ```
sudo apt-get whateverprogram
``` where on the system filesystem is that program located .

---

### Post by ParanoidMetroid on 2009-05-23
I think they're downloaded to /var/cache/apt/archives, at least that's where I found them on my computer (9.04, should be the same I would imagine).

---

### Post by aszxcv on 2009-05-23
thanks i see them there thanks for the help

---

### Post by Cresho on 2009-05-23
ya!  just don't delete partial nor lock.  I usually make backups of this directory to my home somehwere when ever I update or install new software.  Reason being is it gets cleaned out sometimes.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2009-05-23
> **aszxcv said:**
> i dont think my question is clear. if you download a program such as ```
sudo apt-get whateverprogram
``` where on the system filesystem is that program located .

Programs are not usually installed into any single directory in Linux. Instead all files are placed in different places based on the purpose of those files. For example, all executable files (the ones you run to actually start programs) go to /usr/bin, all documentation goes to /usr/share/doc, icons & graphics to /usr/share/icons and/usr/share/pixmaps. Rest of the files, the ones that have no specific location in the system, will then be put into /usr/share/*programname*.

The point behind this is every time you need to find some file, you'll find it in the same place, no matter what program the file belongs to.

/var/cache/apt/archives is where apt caches all downlaoded program packages, it not where the programs are actually *installed*.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-05-23
After a package is installed you can get a listing of files, directories and locations thru synatic in the package's properties.

Too bad synaptic can't retrieve a file listing, ect. for  packages before installing, could be useful

---

