---
title: "How do I add windows to /etc/media ?"
date: 2009-06-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by blues2use on 2009-06-23
My laptop and desktop are both running Jaunty (via Wubi). On my laptop, I have in my /etc/media cdrom, cdrom0 and windows; I can drill through the windows (XP) path as far as I need to and can read/write with no problem.

However, I can't remember how I added the path to /etc/media on my laptop and now that I'm setting up my desktop, I'm baffled (again). I had to do a couple of things on my laptop to accomplish this but I cannot remember what they were.

Could someone explain how to add the path?

Here's the /etc/fstab from my laptop:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc                          /proc           proc     defaults                0  0  
/host/ubuntu/disks/root.disk  /               ext3     loop,errors=remount-ro  0  1  
/host/ubuntu/disks/boot       /boot           none     bind                    0  0  
/host/ubuntu/disks/swap.disk  none            swap     loop,sw                 0  0  
/dev/sda1                     /media/windows  ntfs-3g  defaults                0  0 

and here's /etc/fstab from my desktop:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc                          /proc           proc     defaults                0  0  
/host/ubuntu/disks/root.disk  /               ext3     loop,errors=remount-ro  0  1  
/host/ubuntu/disks/boot       /boot           none     bind                    0  0  
/host/ubuntu/disks/swap.disk  none            swap     loop,sw                 0  0  
/dev/sda1                     /media/windows  ntfs-3g  defaults                0  0 

Obviously, I've missed something installing something somewhere but I can't remember what or how to do it.

Thanks for the help

---

### Post by Wiebelhaus on 2009-06-23
```
/dev/sdb1 /media/Windows_Drive ntfs-3g users,gid=users,fmask=133,dmask=022,locale=en_US.U TF-8 0 0
```

Change to the proper locations and filesystem and whatever you wan to name it.

/etc/hal/fdi/policy/preferences.fdi

sudo gedit /etc/hal/fdi/policy/preferences.fdi

To fix it so that internal drives will show up on your desktop when you boot up, change this line

Check screenie:

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2009-06-23
You have to manually create the directory /media/windows on your desktop before you can mount anything onto it. Just do:
```
sudo mkdir /media/windows
```
to create the directory then tt should mount fine when you reboot.
For it to take affect straight away you can do:
```
mount -a
```
This just manually runs the fstab file for you, just like a reboot.

---

### Post by blues2use on 2009-06-24
I finally found out how to do it. I created the windows directory and then installed Gnome Volume Manager and rebooted. Apparently, that's what I had done on the laptop and it worked as it should. It's written down now for future reference.

Thanks for the replies

---

