---
title: "cloning ubuntu partition to new location"
date: 2012-03-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wrighty.uk.gorl on 2012-03-02
Howdy all

I have been following this guide [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MovingLinuxPartition](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MovingLinuxPartition) and every thing have gone as planned up to step 5 now I am kinda lost.

i have entered the gksu gedit command and it have opened the grub.cfg like it meant to, BUT it say i need to replace every hdX,Y appropriately all i can find is hd0 and just can not get my head around it 

This is my grub.cfg can someone point me in the right direction please ?

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  set have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ "${prev_saved_entry}" ]; then
  set saved_entry="${prev_saved_entry}"
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then
    saved_entry="${chosen}"
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n "${have_grubenv}" ]; then if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}

function load_video {
  insmod vbe
  insmod vga
  insmod video_bochs
  insmod video_cirrus
}

insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,msdos5)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 539d45e9-841a-480a-8e90-95fef7efbd7a
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=auto
  load_video
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod part_msdos
  insmod ext2
  set root='(hd0,msdos5)'
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 539d45e9-841a-480a-8e90-95fef7efbd7a
  set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
  set lang=en_GB
  insmod gettext
fi
terminal_output gfxterm
if [ "${recordfail}" = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
if background_color 44,0,30; then
  clear
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux_proxy ###
if [ ${recordfail} != 1 ]; then 
  if [ -e ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt ]; then 
    if hwmatch ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt 3; then 
      if [ ${match} = 0 ]; then 
        set linux_gfx_mode=keep 
      else 
        set linux_gfx_mode=text 
      fi 
    else 
      set linux_gfx_mode=text 
    fi 
  else 
    set linux_gfx_mode=keep 
  fi 
else 
  set linux_gfx_mode=text 
fi 
export linux_gfx_mode 
if [ "$linux_gfx_mode" != "text" ]; then load_video; fi 
menuentry "Ubuntu" --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    set gfxpayload=$linux_gfx_mode
    insmod gzio
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,msdos5)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 539d45e9-841a-480a-8e90-95fef7efbd7a
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-3.0.0-16-generic root=UUID=539d45e9-841a-480a-8e90-95fef7efbd7a ro   quiet splash vt.handoff=7
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-3.0.0-16-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux_proxy ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###
### END /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober_proxy ###
menuentry "Windows 8" --class windows --class os {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ntfs
    set root='(hd0,msdos2)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 5498B50598B4E720
    chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober_proxy ###

---

### Post by lechien73 on 2012-03-02
The notation has changed slightly since that tutorial was written.

This information might help:

> Note that the "msdos1" partition designation shown in the example just means that a standard, DOS- type partition table is being used. That designation can be replaced with just "1", meaning that the drive/partition designation used in subsequent commands can be either (hd0,msdos1) or (hd0,1). They are equivalent.

---

### Post by wrighty.uk.gorl on 2012-03-02
So am i right in thinking that my grub.cfg is correct i just need to change the UUID in there to finish it ?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-03-02
They change to make it (hd0,5) or (hd0,msdos5) in some versions to clarify whether you have the older MBR(msdos) partitioning or the new GUID(gpt) partitioning. It still is hdX,Y but may be hdX, msdosY as it is in your case.

Do you have to manually update grub.cfg to make this work. You can do it with chroot also, but editing may be easier. You should only have to edit one entry to boot and then run this to update everything.

sudo update-grub

---

### Post by wrighty.uk.gorl on 2012-03-02
> **oldfred said:**
> They change to make it (hd0,5) or (hd0,msdos5) in some versions to clarify whether you have the older MBR(msdos) partitioning or the new GUID(gpt) partitioning. It still is hdX,Y but may be hdX, msdosY as it is in your case.

Do you have to manually update grub.cfg to make this work. You can do it with chroot also, but editing may be easier. You should only have to edit one entry to boot and then run this to update everything.

sudo update-grub

Think i understand now so hd0 is the harddrive and msdos5 it /dev/sda5 have i got that correct ?

If that is i know what i need to do just change to msdos1 as it now sitting on /dev/sda1

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-03-02
If your install is in sda1 that is in grub2 hd0,1 or hd0,msdos1 with MBR(msdos) partitioning. Then you may have to update UUIDs, but only for the preliminary entires & the first Ubuntu boot stanza. The others can/will be updated with the sudo update-grub.

---

### Post by wrighty.uk.gorl on 2012-03-02
> **oldfred said:**
> If your install is in sda1 that is in grub2 hd0,1 or hd0,msdos1 with MBR(msdos) partitioning. Then you may have to update UUIDs, but only for the preliminary entires & the first Ubuntu boot stanza. The others can/will be updated with the sudo update-grub.

Cheers bud

---

### Post by wrighty.uk.gorl on 2012-03-03
Had another question but managed to solve it

---

