---
title: "LO 4.4.1.2: Template management fix"
date: 2015-03-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Winter_Laite on 2015-03-08
If you have found that the new template management system in LO 4.4.1.2 makes it tough to develop your templates on *buntu, try this workaround.

I have hundreds of templates in various stages of developments scattered all over the file system (my bad :KS), but that's not liable to change.
On Linux Mint 17.1 KDE, I got tired of using the GUI to import my templates to the template folder every time I wanted to edit them. Windows doesn't have the problem, because right-click -> Open on a template file opens the template for editing, where double-clicking creates a new document from it. I wanted something similar on Linux. I haven't found it yet, but this workaround makes editing templates quite a bit easier for me.

1) LO 4.4.1.2: Open Writer

2) Go to Tools -> Customize (Tools should be the third menu from the right)

3) At the top of the dialog that opens, on the "Menus" tab, there  is a dropdown field called "Menu". Open the dropdown.

4) Select File | Templates

5) Click "Add" (on the right)

6) From the "Categories" panel on the left, select "Edit"; click "Add"; click "Close".

7) Under "Menu Content" -> Entries, you should now see an "Edit" option (no icon) along with "Save as Template ..." and "Manage". For now, select "Edit"; a hint will appear below: " Opens a dialog where you can select a template for editing."

8) Click "OK" at the bottom of the dialog.

Now you can use this entry to edit your templates anywhere in the file system. It will default to your template folder, but it works elsewhere.

Regards,
Winter

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-03-08
let life be simple :lolflag:

---

