---
title: "12.04 auto login banjaxed"
date: 2012-04-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dunbrokin on 2012-04-29
I have umpteen different ways suggested to overcome the autolog in...I can even see the autologin tick on my admin profile when I go in as guest...but will it autologin....like #e11...I want to autologin to my xbmc...but nothing seems to work...any suggestions (from people who have experience of this problem and have solved it would be useful..I know what I should try...but none of them work...I did a fresh install)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-04-29
It would help if you told us what version you are running, as there are different ways to enable auto-login, over the past few versions.

---

### Post by dunbrokin on 2012-04-29
12.04 lts

---

### Post by Rodney9 on 2012-04-29
How to auto-login - 

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#How_to_enable_automatic_logon](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#How_to_enable_automatic_logon)


For How-To's, Information and Screen-Casts on Lubuntu go to the
Lubuntu One Stop Thread - 

[[COLOR="Blue"]Lubuntu One Stop Thread[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1844755")

Rodney

---

### Post by dunbrokin on 2012-04-29
Thanks, here is mine....not sure I can see difference...except that mine does not work.

[SeatDefaults]
user-session=ubuntu
greeter-session=unity-greeter

autologin-user=ubuntu
autologin-user-timeout=0

---

### Post by marinara on 2012-04-29
are you trying to login to ubuntu, is your username ubuntu?

---

### Post by dunbrokin on 2012-04-29
> **marinara said:**
> are you trying to login to ubuntu, is your username ubuntu?

Well, Duh!...I can be a real eejit sometimes. How many times have I looked at those 4 lines and missed the obvious!  ARRRGGHH!

Thanks for that, much obliged.

---

### Post by dunbrokin on 2012-04-29
Hmmm! I changed my login name to be media - which is my login id....but still nothing happens....hmmmm!

---

### Post by marinara on 2012-04-29
if you look at the wiki, there's another difference, session should be lubuntu

---

### Post by dunbrokin on 2012-04-29
> **marinara said:**
> if you look at the wiki, there's another difference, session should be lubuntu


Presumabley that is if your are using lubuntu....but I am using ubuntu?!?!

---

### Post by dunbrokin on 2012-04-30
OK, let me try this again as I am having no luck solving this one...
in lightdm.conf I have the following:


[SeatDefaults]
user-session=ubuntu
greeter-session=unity-greeter

autologin-user=media
autologin-user-timeout=0

attached a screen shot showing that media has the tick for autologin authority.

---

### Post by nullified_nostalgia on 2012-04-30
Have you had any luck fixing this since your last post?  I'm having the same problem and my head is spinning trying to find a solution.  This login screen has doubled the time it takes my system to load.

---

### Post by grumpyoldgit on 2012-05-01
I must be missing something here. I was on Lubuntu 11.10 and was happily auto logging in. This has stopped with 12.04. The solution being given is to create a file and put some entries in it. This seems a bit of a backward step. I'm sure that when I installed 11.10 it was just a tick somewhere in the gui. Has this option been removed?

The matter is not helped in that the heading is clearly Lubuntu but some Ubuntu solutions are creeping in. My other main PC is upgrading to Ubuntu 12.04 as I speak so it will not become clear for a couple of hours if this issue is related just to Lubuntu or also includes Ubuntu.

---

### Post by grumpyoldgit on 2012-05-01
I'm one step further in that i have re-ticked the option in Users Settings so that my password is not asked for. However, I still get a menu option when switching on, to select between myself, Guest and Other.

I'm sure there was a gui option in 11.10 that allowed me to bypass that screen and auto login.

---

### Post by marinara on 2012-05-01
grumpy please start a new thread

---

### Post by dunbrokin on 2012-05-01
> **nullified_nostalgia said:**
> Have you had any luck fixing this since your last post?  I'm having the same problem and my head is spinning trying to find a solution.  This login screen has doubled the time it takes my system to load.

No luck I am afraid...the autologin is broken as far as I can tell. This certainly applies for the 64 version...I suspect it does not apply for the 32 version, or else there would be a lot more voices out here in the wilderness!

---

### Post by nullified_nostalgia on 2012-05-01
> **dunbrokin said:**
> No luck I am afraid...the autologin is broken as far as I can tell. This certainly applies for the 64 version...I suspect it does not apply for the 32 version, or else there would be a lot more voices out here in the wilderness!
I am using the 32 version of lubuntu, so yes it applies to the 32 as well.

@ marinara - Why should grumpy start a new thread?  He seems to be having the exact same issue.  I'd like to hear if his test confirms that this also applies to ubuntu and not just lubuntu.  This is either a 12.04 issue all around, or it's specifically a lubuntu issue.  Knowing which would get us a step closer to identifying the source of the problem.

---

### Post by marinara on 2012-05-02
grumpy should start a new thread because the technical details may not be the same, nor the troubleshooting procedures

---

### Post by gnugu on 2012-05-02
I had 11.10 with autologin.
After upgrade it stopped.

I confirm that this [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#For_release_12.04_and_on_.28LightDM.29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#For_release_12.04_and_on_.28LightDM.29) solves the problem.

---

### Post by dunbrokin on 2012-05-02
> **gnugu said:**
> I had 11.10 with autologin.
After upgrade it stopped.

I confirm that this [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#For_release_12.04_and_on_.28LightDM.29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#For_release_12.04_and_on_.28LightDM.29) solves the problem.


That may solve the problem in Lubunu...but it certainly does not solve the problem in Ubunutu.

---

### Post by nullified_nostalgia on 2012-05-02
> **dunbrokin said:**
> That may solve the problem in Lubunu...but it certainly does not solve the problem in Ubunutu.
I'm using Lubuntu and it's not solving the problem.  I've passed the point of frustration though so I'm going with the only viable solution, which is to downgrade back to 11.10.

---

### Post by Guilden_NL on 2012-05-04
Note that this thread is flagged with Lubuntu.
The difference in desktops is significant.

Hate to spit into the wind on this, but I truly wish that we could have separate distro threads.  There's always the points of sharing common issues, but that can be easily rectified by those of us who understand if it is kernel related, library dependent with an app, etc.

Ah well.

I ran into the same problem with Lubuntu 12.04 where every fix that I know for LXDE doesn't work.  I even took a screenshot of my config, reinstalled ticking the autologin box and comparing the two config files (no difference).

But the thread originator turns out to be using Unity, so I will back out of this Lubuntu flagged thread.

---

