---
title: "Cannot change screen resolution (8.04)"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by William S on 2008-04-27
I have a problem
When I try to change the screen resolution I get this error message:
The X Server does not support the XRandR extension.  Runtime resolution changes to the display size are not available. 

I have checked the restricted drivers and the ATI restricted driver is on. 

Anyone know what to do here?

---

### Post by jon8105 on 2008-04-27
Try running this code and see if that fixes it. 

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

However, if you are using "Advanced Desktop Settings" (i.e the cube) you might need to go to System->Preferences->Main Menu, go to Other and check the box that says "Screen and Graphics".  After that you can go to Applications->Other->Screen and Graphics to change your resolution.

Hopefully one of those methods will help.

---

### Post by alfachino on 2008-04-27
I was having the same problem. I tried running the suggested code and although it still gives me the same error when I try to go into Screen Resolution, when I restarted X the resolution is now the way it should be. So for now it seems like an acceptable solution.

---

### Post by i586 on 2008-04-27
(Read the first post).

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=770901&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=770901&page=2)

Regards.

---

### Post by William S on 2008-04-28
> **i586 said:**
> (Read the first post).

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=770901&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=770901&page=2)

Regards.


That just killed my GUI...
And btw, how do I enable the advanced desktop effects in 8.04? It seems like the custom effect option is disappeared on the appearence menu.

---

### Post by mapes12 on 2008-04-28
8.04 appears to have screen res issues that were not apparent in 7.10. 7.10 appears to configure the xorg.conf file much better than 8.04. Therefore, try a clean install of 7.10 and save a copy of /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. Install 8.04 but replace the xorg.file generated by 8.04 and replace with the back up from 7.10 

You should then have the screen res options you need, particularly if you mark all the VGA options at the 7.10 install stage. Use the alternate cd's for the text installer where you can configure what you want.

Good luck!

---

### Post by William S on 2008-05-06
Should try that out, but I will lose all my data then, that is not really what I want :P
Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by mapes12 on 2008-05-06
Backup a copy of your Home directory

---

