---
title: "10.10 won't boot into the GUI"
date: 2010-12-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by RoyHobbs on 2010-12-11
Hi
I have just upgraded to Ubuntu 10.10 and it will not boot into the GUI, only the terminal.  It asks for my logon id and password and then takes me to an active terminal, however I can't get into the gui.  Please help!  Thanks

---

### Post by vathul on 2010-12-11
Please click one of the Quick Reply icons in the posts above to activate Quick Reply.

---

### Post by shookees on 2010-12-11
Not sure what the problem might be at the moment, but when logged on in terminal try
**sudo apt-get upgrade || sudo apt-get update**
and restart the computer. Well the workaround is, that you can write ** startx **after logging in ;)

---

### Post by RoyHobbs on 2010-12-11
> **shookees said:**
> Not sure what the problem might be at the moment, but when logged on in terminal try
**sudo apt-get upgrade || sudo apt-get update**
and restart the computer. Well the workaround is, that you can write ** startx **after logging in ;)
Thanks for this, however I tried the two apt-get and got the message 0 updated and 0 upgraded.  When rebooted and then ran startx the error was that my nividia drives could not be recognised and I remained in the terminal?:confused:

---

### Post by RoyHobbs on 2010-12-16
Bump

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2010-12-16
Post the output of,
```
cat /etc/default/grub
```

---

### Post by RoyHobbs on 2010-12-16
> **karthick87 said:**
> Post the output of,
```
cat /etc/default/grub
```

Here tis:

# If you change this file, run 'update-grub' afterwards to update
# /boot/grub/grub.cfg.

GRUB_DEFAULT=0
#GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true
GRUB_TIMEOUT=10
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""

# Uncomment to enable BadRAM filtering, modify to suit your needs
# This works with Linux (no patch required) and with any kernel that obtains
# the memory map information from GRUB (GNU Mach, kernel of FreeBSD ...)
#GRUB_BADRAM="0x01234567,0xfefefefe,0x89abcdef,0xefefefef"

# Uncomment to disable graphical terminal (grub-pc only)
#GRUB_TERMINAL=console

# The resolution used on graphical terminal
# note that you can use only modes which your graphic card supports via VBE
# you can see them in real GRUB with the command `vbeinfo'
#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

# Uncomment if you don't want GRUB to pass "root=UUID=xxx" parameter to Linux
#GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_UUID=true

# Uncomment to disable generation of recovery mode menu entries
#GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_RECOVERY="true"

# Uncomment to get a beep at grub start
#GRUB_INIT_TUNE="480 440 1"

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-12-16
When you get to the OS's menu highlight ubuntu and press e. Then change 'quiet splash' to 'nomodeset and press CTRL+X
 
If you don't get a meun (you only have one os installed etc) press and hold SHIFT whilst it's booting.
 
If this gets you in do the sudo update upgrade thing and then got to System -> Administration -> Additional Drivers and install the recommended Nvidia one.

---

### Post by strange_cathect on 2010-12-28
Having the same problem. I just updated my 10.10 install and, when I rebooted as required, I could only get text on boot.

It seems to have something to do with NVIDIA drivers.

---

### Post by superchef on 2010-12-28
I ran into a similar problem once when I did a minimal ubuntu install. It turned out that gdm wasn't installed on my system. Try running: ```
sudo apt-get install gdm
``` then ```
sudo service gdm start
```

---

### Post by hgpot on 2011-02-15
I am having the same problems as OP, but when I install gdm it just tells me that I already have it, and when I try to start it, it says that it's already running.

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-02-16
It's probably best to start a new thread, else it get confusing :-)

What graphics card do you have?

---

### Post by llmunro on 2011-02-16
I'm really new at Ubuntu, but this (not booting to the GUI) happened to me last week.  I don't know if this is the identical problem, but it might help:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1677553](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1677553)

Best,
Lisa

---

### Post by hgpot on 2011-02-16
All of the hardware information that I have is right here:

Processor: Intel Atom Processor N455 1.66GHz 512K Cache
Chipset: Intel CG82NM10 PCH
Motherboard: Tripod Motherboard MARIO – 6050A240910 – MB – A03
Ram: Hynix 2GB DDR3 1Rx8 PC3 – 10600S Ram
Read Only Memory: ITE IT8500E Flash ROM
SSD Drive: SanDisk sdsa4dh-016G 16GB SATA SSD
Wireless Wan: Qualcomm Gobi2000 PCI Express Mini Card
3g Adapter: AzureWave 802.11 a/b/g/n PCI-E Half MiniCard
Bluetooth: Atheros AR5BBU12 Bluetooth V2.1 EDR

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-02-17
I think new threads all round really, exept for the op, because I'm already getting confused :-)
 
You can get some hardware info by opening a terminal (CTRL+ALT+T) and typing```
lspci
```
It's the graphics card I'm interested in at the moment.
 
New Threads ;-)

---

### Post by hgpot on 2011-02-17
> **Hippytaff said:**
> I think new threads all round really, exept for the op, because I'm already getting confused :-)
 
You can get some hardware info by opening a terminal (CTRL+ALT+T) and typing```
lspci
```
It's the graphics card I'm interested in at the moment.
 
New Threads ;-)

So I put in this code, and I get a long list of codes, I assume that you want:

Display controller: Intel Corporation N10 Family Integrated Graphics Controller

That is the same things as VGA Compatible Controller, so I assume that that means that it uses the same gpu for both the VGA port and the display, which makes sense.

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-02-18
hgpot
is the graphics module (driver) loaded. Can you post the out put of
```

lsmod | grep -i n10

```

---

### Post by hgpot on 2011-02-20
> **Hippytaff said:**
> hgpot
is the graphics module (driver) loaded. Can you post the out put of
```

lsmod | grep -i n10

```

That code doesn't doesn't do anything.

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-02-20
It was to see if the driver is installed. If nothing is returned there is no driver with n10 in the title installed. This either means your driver is not installed or it's not called anything with n10 in the title!?

---

### Post by brenodamata on 2011-04-05
i'm having the same problem!
alt F7 doesn't get me back to my GUI

---

### Post by 5149.5 on 2011-04-05
> **hgpot said:**
> That code doesn't doesn't do anything.

Try:

```
lsmod | grep i915
```

---

