---
title: "9.10 remastersys replaces grub pc"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by longtom on 2009-11-01
Hi,

something strange just happened.  I added the remastersys repositories to the sources.list and with synaptic installed the program.

It uninstalled grub pc and appears to have put back the former grub.  I am busy now to remaster 9.10 and will write the iso to a dvd.
After that I will install the remastered distro in a VirtualBox.
 Is there a way I can see which grub is used?

If I want to install grub pc, remastersys and grub are uninstalled.

Can somebody explain to me what's going on?

---

### Post by xx58 on 2009-11-02
:rolleyes: If you want check, what kind Grub you have then:
Code:
grub-install -v
Answer will be Look;
GNU GRUB 0.97 or 1.97 Beta2
I uninstall Grub2 and then install Legacy Grub 0.97, but Remastersys just don't work with Ubuntu 9.10, so I think need wait when coming out Remastersys upgrade witch one will work with Ubuntu 9.10
But right now - could not find Ramdisk image.

---

### Post by Raistlin355 on 2009-11-03
> **xx58 said:**
> \
I uninstall Grub2 and then install Legacy Grub 0.97, but Remastersys just don't work with Ubuntu 9.10

I did this as well using the guidance found here:  
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8071880&postcount=18]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8071880&postcount=18")

However it still did not work for me, here is someone on the remastersys forums claiming that it did work:
[http://geekconnection.org/remastersys/forums/index.php?topic=348.msg2158;topicseen#msg2158]("http://geekconnection.org/remastersys/forums/index.php?topic=348.msg2158;topicseen#msg2158")

but if failed for me.  I think it may have something to do with upstart?  Oh well in the meantime I will have to exercise my patience.

---

