---
title: "10.04 monitor swapped now resolution too high"
date: 2010-07-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by stinger30au on 2010-07-14
i have setup ubuntu 10.04 on a pc and the install run fine using a 22 inch samsung lcd

however

the monitor it is usually plugged in to is a compaq s700 vga screen.
if i plug the samsung monitor back in to it and tell it to run at 1024x768 the lcd screen becomes unreadable and looks like the horizontal hold has failed.

with the compaq monitor plugged in the pc starts up and when it goet to displaying the login screen the monitor goes in to standby mode cos the screen resolution is too high

however

i can hit alt+f2 and get a command prompt up if this helps

also, the video is onboard.it is an intel chipset.

somehow i need to tell 10.04 to wind the screen resolution back, but i dont know how.

thanks


i just had a thought about this. i need to out fr a little while but  heres my thought.

i can plug the pc back in to my lcd screen and see whats going on. then enable remote network login

swap monitors and log in via lan and change screen resolution

in theory, it sounds doable. will test this when i go home.

---

### Post by k3lt01 on 2010-07-14
Stinger, go System > Preference > Monitor Preferences. Then go Detect Monitors, on the right hand side of this gui is the Monitor Resolution also.

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2010-07-14
> **k3lt01 said:**
> Stinger, go System > Preference > Monitor Preferences. Then go Detect Monitors, on the right hand side of this gui is the Monitor Resolution also.

great idea. but when i plug the compaq monitor in ubunu starts up and i see the standard text screens.

when it goes to show the standard ubuntu login screen graphics the monitor goes in to standby mode cos the screen resolution is too high.

i got to go out for a little while. i will be home soon and try again.

---

### Post by k3lt01 on 2010-07-14
You may have to reboot go into Grub > Recovery mode on the current kernel > FailsafeX > Low Graphics Mode and once your in set the resolution.

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2010-07-14
ah ha! my thought was right

plug the lcd in and log in to pc and tell it to allow remote desktop via lan

shutdown pc and plug in the compaq monitor

start pc and wait for the screen to go blank and the hdd light to stop flashing

only have one user setup so press enter once then type password then press enter

got to another pc on the lan and log in to the one with the blank monitor via lan

change monitor refresh rate from 85 to 60 and click apply and instantly the compaq monitor is working again!!


YAY FOR ME!!

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2010-07-14
i just found an interesting error. when i lgged in via lan and set the screen refresh rate to 60hz, when i log out and it goes to the login screen again it goes to max refresh rate and i cant read the screen as it goes blank

however

i just pressed enter, login to the pc , click system , admin, login screen

set the pc to automatic login

now its all good.
so long as noone presses the log out button, its all fine. im happy

---

