---
title: "8.04 and Citrix"
date: 2008-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by romeyde on 2008-05-01
I log in to work via Firefox and Citrix.  Worked fine under 7.10.  Some stupid reason I decided to upgrade to 8.04 tonight.  Over all things seem fine, but something with citrix seems to have broken.   I can login to work but after logging in, one of the frames (Applications) in FF shows this:  

Redirect Loop
Firefox has detected that the server is redirecting the request for this address in a way that will never complete.

I wasn't using Firefox 3 before either, got that with the upgrade.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-05-01
you may just wish to replace firefox 3 with 2, its easy to do if you need it.

---

### Post by cubeist on 2008-05-01
my citrix knowledge is less than stellar, but I am pretty sure it will work quite will with the latest opera
[http://www.opera.com/download/index.dml?platform=linux](http://www.opera.com/download/index.dml?platform=linux)

---

### Post by romeyde on 2008-05-01
Little better.  Firefox 2.0 at least gives me the option to open the applications window/folder.   But, nothing happens when I click it...  I believe I needed to use the 32 bit version of Firefox for this.  But, when I tried installing Firefox 32bit (using AMD64) my DNS doesn't work.   I can only open web pages via IP address.

---

### Post by romeyde on 2008-05-02
That was painful but all seems good now.  Updating in case anyone else has this issue.

Getting Citrix working again for Hardy AMD64 after upgrading.

Had to install the 32 bit version of firefox, use the script here.  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202537&highlight=firefox+amd64](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202537&highlight=firefox+amd64)  not sure it's necessary but I went ahead and removed firefox 3.0 first.

NOW, make a note of this before you do it...  Because firefox browsing might not work.   I had to goto "about:config" and set "network.dns.disableIPv6" to "true".  Before doing that, I could only browse via IP address.

Once that was all done, citrix was happy again for me.  Didn't even have to reinstall the ICA client.

---

### Post by rod40cool on 2008-05-30
I'm getting this problem too but I've been able to log into Citrix Access Gateway at my work since upgrading to Hardy 8.04 64bit. This makes me think that there has been an update since the full release of 8.04 which has stopped this from working. So I dont think loading up the 32 bit version of firefox is the answer. 

I've tried Epiphany and it has the same problem.

This is logged in the Citrix forums too [here]("http://support.citrix.com/forums/thread.jspa?forumID=16&threadID=102428&tstart=0")

Can anyone think of something else?

Correction: I have a laptop too running 32 bit Hardy which is ok with Firefox 3b5. Ver 2 Firefox in Hardy AMD64 works ok though.
sudo apt-get install firefox-2

---

### Post by yipperzz on 2008-06-23
Same here.  I got it working on my AMD64 machine with Firefox 2.  But my 32bit laptop can run it with Firefox 3.  Sucks, but at least I don't have to use it all the time.  Hopefully there is a work around.

---

### Post by Ubuntu Warrior on 2008-07-06
Yep, we also seem to be experiencing problems with the Citrix ICA client on Hardy 8.04. Installation goes ok but when running the Ubuntu script to customise the install it fails saying that 8.04 is not supported!!! I have been trying to find out whether Citrix does in fact support Hardy but no joy yet. We have about 25 users in our business using Citrix via Ubuntu Gutsy 7.10 and these work fine but would like to at some point move to Hardy on the desktops (about 120 now :) ).

---

### Post by rod40cool on 2008-07-26
> **Ubuntu Warrior said:**
> Yep, we also seem to be experiencing problems with the Citrix ICA client on Hardy 8.04. Installation goes ok but when running the Ubuntu script to customise the install it fails saying that 8.04 is not supported!!! I have been trying to find out whether Citrix does in fact support Hardy but no joy yet. We have about 25 users in our business using Citrix via Ubuntu Gutsy 7.10 and these work fine but would like to at some point move to Hardy on the desktops (about 120 now :) ).

The latest ICA Client certainly does work under Hardy, I have used it both at home (using a web based Citrix Access Gateway) on 64bit and 32bit Hardy installs and at work on the LAN using the Citrix Presentation Server Client. What's this Ubuntu script you mention which customises the install?

---

### Post by ssavelan on 2008-08-04
Still trying to get 10.6 to work on hardy... hope that a clean fix comes through soon.

---

