---
title: "12.04 will not let me log in"
date: 2012-11-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by unsuper on 2012-11-10
I went through the process of changing my username on root and after rebooting, my user name was still the same.
I then went back on root and changed the home folder name with the -md /home/newuser command
Then after rebooting again, it still had my old name and now on top of that, it bumbs me back to lighDM after entering my password
I tried loging in manually, by entering my new username and it's still the same result

I'll settle for being able to log into my account alone, but if anyone can also help me to change the name at the topright to my current username I'd be thankfull

---

### Post by unsuper on 2012-11-10
Also note that I haven't updated
I tried doing this from the login menue ctrl+alt+f1 and the update was unsually short, then I did sudo new-release-upgrade (w/e the command is) and it said there were no upgrades
LightDM also still says I'm in 12.04

---

### Post by westie457 on 2012-11-10
Hi welcome to the forum.

This link might be of use with the password.
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword)

As for upgrading to a newer version a clean install is usually the preferred method as this avoids many conflicts with various file versions. Most upgrades go through with no issues, some do not.

If you really want to upgrade to a newer version the recommended way is open the Software Centre. Go to the Edit menu and select Software Sources.

In the updates tab at the bottom of the window is 'Notify me of a new Ubuntu version. In that box select 'any new version'. Close out of that.

Now open a terminal using Ctrl+Alt+T and run in this order ```
sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get upgrade

sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```
The first command updates the repositories

The second upgrades the existing installation

The third gives you the newer version (in this case 12.10)

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-11-10
_A correction here. _

The command ```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
``` will not upgrade to a newer version of Ubuntu. It will upgrade the state of current packages and resolve (handle more "smart") the dependencies so none of packages will held back. 
```
man apt-get
``` for more info. 

The command to upgrade to a newer release of Ubuntu through terminal is ```
sudo do-release-upgrade
```Also see here some advices in order to upgrade as "painlessly" as possible. 
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/203301/how-to-safely-upgrade-from-ubuntu-12-04-to-12-10/203302#203302](http://askubuntu.com/questions/203301/how-to-safely-upgrade-from-ubuntu-12-04-to-12-10/203302#203302)

Thanks

---

### Post by unsuper on 2012-11-10
The main thing is that I can't log in, and there's no problems with the password. Like I said it just bumps be back into lightDM (after the screen goes black, like it usually does when I get logged in)
Or are you guys saying that an update will allow me to log in?

I have to work around the house for a few more hours and I'll try simply updating it when I get back, if that's the case

---

### Post by unsuper on 2012-11-10
> **NikTh said:**
> _[_code]sudo do-release-upgrade[/code]Also see here some advices in order to upgrade as "painlessly" as possible. 
[]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/203301/how-to-safely-upgrade-from-ubuntu-12-04-to-12-10/203302#203302")

Thanks

Like I mentioned I tried the sudo do-release-upgrade, and it said there was nothing to upgrade
**But** like i said this isn't the main problem

Anyway I'll try in a bit

---

### Post by unsuper on 2012-11-10
Ok so "sudo apt-get update" tells me there was something wrong with the signature and I basically still "have the same files"
"sudo do-release-upgrade" tells me that there are no new releases available (I forget the exact words)

I've seen something about replacing LightDM with the older version so I might try that
Again the *main* problem is that I can't log in to my account and the account available doesn't even have the new username

Any help is greatly appreciated

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2012-11-10
I'm having a hard time understanding what you did exactly, but it sounds like you may now have a mismatch between the owner name and/or UID of the home dir compared to the name / UID of the account i.e.

```
$ ls -l /home/username
```versus```
$ id username
```

---

### Post by unsuper on 2012-11-10
> **steeldriver said:**
> I'm having a hard time understanding what you did exactly, but it sounds like you may now have a mismatch between the owner name and/or UID of the home dir compared to the name / UID of the account i.e.

```
$ ls -l /home/username
```versus```
$ id username
```

I used
```
 usermod -m -d /home/newname -lnewname oldname
```
It changed the username, but not the displayed name (the one you see at log in and on the top left)
Then I did
```
 usermod -md /home/username
```
And it would let me log in at all

I now ubdated via root and logged in, but it still has my old name displayed while showing me my new name in the terminal
The main thing I wanted in the first place was just a new display name

How do I achieve this?

---

### Post by unsuper on 2012-11-10
I realized the problem
The gid and groups are set to my old username

How do I change this?

---

