---
title: "8.04.2 and Pulseaudio"
date: 2009-01-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2009-01-25
Doe's 8.04.2 fix the issues everyone seems to be having Pulseaudio?
I'm dual booting with XP and my SB0240 Audigy 2 cards works just fine in XP but I've haven't been able a peep out of it in Linux.

If I've been doing all the updates in 8.04 then 
   Do I in have in essence 8.04.2 already? 
Else
   Do I need to install 8.04.1 then 8.04.2?

I'm trying to maintain my positive attitude towards Linux but this sound issue is starting to wear me down.   My wife has been commenting about the reason she doesn't want Linux on her machine is that she wants to use her machine rather than play with it..  @#%@ She's got a point there....
My needs are basic, I want to get the sound working on the games I play with my little one.  Sorry about the quasi-rant.  (Ahhh great, the cat jumped up on my desk and I spilled coffee on my keyboard... It seems like my Enter key isn't working now)).....  Is there an easy way to get the sound working (short of using XP?) Thanks... (Hopefully the day will get better)

---

### Post by snkiz on 2009-01-25
there is a great tutorial here on the forums by one of the pluseaudio dev's, I'm not at my desktop or I'd post the link. I hear what your sayin about your wife, do what I do setup her own profile and when it meets her approval NEVER mess with her setup. Then just explain to her that just because you tinker, doesn't mean she has to. cheers!

found the link:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578&highlight=pulseaudio+lost+sound+card]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578&highlight=pulseaudio+lost+sound+card")

---

### Post by cb951303 on 2009-01-25
you already have 8.04.2 if you did all the upgrades

---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2009-01-25
> **cb951303 said:**
> you already have 8.04.2 if you did all the upgrades
That's sort of what I figured.... I just wasn't sure...

---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2009-01-25
> **snkiz said:**
> there is a great tutorial here on the forums by one of the pluseaudio dev's, I'm not at my desktop or I'd post the link. I hear what your sayin about your wife, do what I do setup her own profile and when it meets her approval NEVER mess with her setup. Then just explain to her that just because you tinker, doesn't mean she has to. cheers!

found the link:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578&highlight=pulseaudio+lost+sound+card]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578&highlight=pulseaudio+lost+sound+card")

I've actually been to that link, worked through the how to without success.  The first couple of posts where interesting but after reading 20 or 30 pages of that thread my problem was not solved and I didn't feel like I learned anything...

I really have no intention of turning into a sound geek but my suspicion is that's what's its going to take to solve this... I bought this computer used after my wife hosed her computer while she was upgrading her Bios.... She eventually got it straightened out and I got the newer older computer.... I got to hand it to here, I don't think I would take on a bios upgrade..
Anyway it seems like the sound card has some interesting capabilities is I could get this darn thing working.

I need to keep typing here to loosen up the keep board from the cat/coffee incident this morning.  

I been trying to turn this into a learning experience(in order not to loose it) and and someone pointed me to this link [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=843012]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=843012").  Which eventually pointed me to to [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=997506]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=997506").  Anyway I seemed to have learned a few things but my problem is not solved.

I would think that some of the super-geeks out there would have come up with some type of wonder diagnostic utility to help us wannabe geeks out here..  Is there such a thing???

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-01-25
Why don't you try something simple to start. Double left click on the little speaker icon in your upper panel next to the date.
In the pop up click on switches and set Audigy Analog/Digitial Output jack to the opposite of what it currently is.
(on my SB0240 in 8.04 it's checked

Then go to System -> Preferences -> Sound and test movies and music. (won't hurt to move off of 'autodetect' to 'alsa'

You may also find in individual apps settings or preferences to do the same, move the audio output off of default to alsa

---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2009-01-25
> **mc4man said:**
> Why don't you try something simple to start. Double left click on the little speaker icon in your upper panel next to the date.
In the pop up click on switches and set Audigy Analog/Digitial Output jack to the opposite of what it currently is.
(on my SB0240 in 8.04 it's checked

Then go to System -> Preferences -> Sound and test movies and music. (won't hurt to move off of 'autodetect' to 'alsa'

You may also find in individual apps settings or preferences to do the same, move the audio output off of default to alsa

Well.. for some reason I had it in my mind that "Audigy Analog/Digital Output jack" was supposed to be off.  I went to System -> Preferences -> Sound and test movies and music. I had did the following tests:

"pulse audio": nothing(on first try, but later got same error message as ALSA see below')
"Via 8237": N/A Mother board sound chip
"P16V": Test tone.
"Multichannel Playback": Test Tone

Multichannel Capture/PT:Error message See below
ADC Capture/Stand PCM Playback: Error message see below
ALSA-Advanced Linux Sound Architecture: Error message see below

"
> audiotestsrc wave=sine freq=512 ! audioconvert ! audioresample ! gconfaudiosink profile=music: Could not open audio device for playback.

OSS-Open Sound System: Test Tone
"Auto Detect": I get a test tone now..... Cool.

Ok.... This is farther along than I gotten in a few days... At least I have something working....
Any idea's on what going on with the error messages in Pulse Audio and Alsa??
I left it on auto detect, a gave my Maelstrom game a try which uses SDL got nothing..... :(
At least I got some some noice out of the analog speakers finally...
Any suggestions on what to try next?

---

### Post by otakuj462 on 2009-01-26
Hi Jonas,

I googled "ubuntu 8.04.2 pulseaudio" and this was the first result that came it. It seems clear that others are looking for a resolution to the train wreck that is pulseaudio on Uuntu. Hopefully other people will find this post as well. 

To answer your question, no, it does not look like 8.04.2 includes changes specifically related to fixing pulseaudio-related bugs:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyReleaseNotes/ChangeSummary/8.04.2](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyReleaseNotes/ChangeSummary/8.04.2)

Which is almost unbelievable to me given what a disaster this has been.

My tip to all users who are having trouble with audio on Ubuntu is to opt out and use Kubuntu 8.04.2. aRts, the KDE 3.5 sound server, works great. To try Kubuntu, just run the following command to install the kubuntu "meta" package:

```

sudo apt-get install kubuntu-desktop

```

Note to GNOME users: I'm not recommending Kubuntu in order to start a KDE versus GNOME flamewar, I'm simply attempting to solve this problem of audio in the way that has worked best for me, which has simply been to cut pulseaudio out of the picture in the least-invasive way. 

Please report your results here, as I'd be interested to hear your experience.

Good luck,

Jake

---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2009-02-03
I am half tempted to try Kubuntu.
I managed to get Alsa working and I was working on my pulseAudio connection connected.
I followed a thread on how to get the connection working and proceeded to totally hose up my sound, basically back to ground -1.  Man is this frustrating.](*,)](*,)

Anyway, something is screwed up now with my acpi-support.  I thought it was something did, but since it was a "top bug fix" I not so sure now.

This is supposed to be fun and relaxing for me... I guess it's still fun, but I don't know about the relaxing part..

---

### Post by halovivek on 2009-02-03
I had problem with pulseaudio. I have removed that one and configured with [ALSA]("http://idyllictux.wordpress.com/2008/10/29/alsa-instead-of-pulseaudio-for-ubuntu-810-intrepid-a-non-destructive-way/"). it is doing really great.

---

### Post by ikisham on 2009-02-03
Just an idea, could you try to remove your sound card and use the built-in sound?
I have built-in sound through VIA8237 in ubuntu 8.10 and works fine. When I first installed the system the sound was rather poor (quite low)(my brother's pc with VIA8233, on the contrary, has a loud sound output). About a week or so ago I installed KDE (install kde) and my sound got better:
*I know the KDE install changed my system audio preferences even in Gnome.
*I had to enable 'intrepid-proposed' in 'Software Sources' to install a later version of KDE (I think from 4.1.3 to 4.1.4 or something) so I don't know if some of the other updates that came too affected the sound.
Just to ponder, I use Gnome since if you're not in the mood to keep fixing this and that that doesn't work, don't go to KDE.

---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2009-02-04
> **ikisham said:**
> Just an idea, could you try to remove your sound card and use the built-in sound?
I have built-in sound through VIA8237 in ubuntu 8.10 and works fine. When I first installed the system the sound was rather poor (quite low)(my brother's pc with VIA8233, on the contrary, has a loud sound output). About a week or so ago I installed KDE (install kde) and my sound got better:
*I know the KDE install changed my system audio preferences even in Gnome.
*I had to enable 'intrepid-proposed' in 'Software Sources' to install a later version of KDE (I think from 4.1.3 to 4.1.4 or something) so I don't know if some of the other updates that came too affected the sound.
Just to ponder, I use Gnome since if you're not in the mood to keep fixing this and that that doesn't work, don't go to KDE.

Using the mobo sound chip is not a bad idea. The thought of using the build in sound card actually occurred to me. (Actually it took me a while to figure out I was connecting to the wrong device).  I think I'm going to give my current course a couple more attempts.

---

