---
title: "W2k"
date: 2010-10-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Zuben El Genubi on 2010-10-23
CAn you partition with W2K? I am already running a dual boot 2 HD PC. The other drive is XP, and dedicated to Photoshop, and its brethren. 2K is the online junk drive, and a lot of newer stuff doesn't work that well. I am connected via DSL. 
I would also like info on stuff like printers - HP in particular. I also have old IBM clicker Keyboards.
I have to start reading from scratch. I don't think I want windows 7.
Zuben

---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-10-23
> **Zuben El Genubi said:**
> CAn you partition with W2K? I am already running a dual boot 2 HD PC. The other drive is XP, and dedicated to Photoshop, and its brethren. 2K is the online junk drive, and a lot of newer stuff doesn't work that well. I am connected via DSL. 
I would also like info on stuff like printers - HP in particular. I also have old IBM clicker Keyboards.
I have to start reading from scratch. I don't think I want windows 7.
Zuben

Most HP printers will work with ubuntu through HPlip.
So far, I havent encountered one that doesn't work. yet.

Win2K does not have any internal partitioning tools.
Since your using xp/win2k and not vista or windows 7, you can startup from the livecd of ubuntu.

Choose "try ubuntu". Go to system -> administration -> gparted.

---

### Post by bumanie on 2010-10-23
+1 for linux and HP printers - HP support and write great open source drivers for their products.
+1 for using gparted for partitioning, either from the ubuntu live cd or you can download the dedicated gparted partitioning tool from [here]("http://gparted.sourceforge.net/download.php") - it has a couple of more functions than the ubuntu version.
Also, if you decide to persevere with linux, you efforts will be well rewarded - just remember linux works differently to windows. This does not mean it is harder, just different. It takes a while to get out of the 'windows mindset' and way of thinking. Good luck and feel free to ask questions here, if you run in to trouble at any stage.

---

### Post by Zuben El Genubi on 2010-10-24
Your Yahooapsis is a pain!  I just got the message typed and because I didn't allo2w Yahooapsis, it disappeared!

You say I can run Ubuntu from the disk - You mean like a portable OS? That would be ideal.
 
Do you have a step by step tutorial for doing this? And is it printable? I hate online stuff as you seem to need 2 computers to do anything.

Thanks

---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-10-25
> **Zuben El Genubi said:**
> Your Yahooapsis is a pain!  I just got the message typed and because I didn't allo2w Yahooapsis, it disappeared!

You say I can run Ubuntu from the disk - You mean like a portable OS? That would be ideal.
 
Do you have a step by step tutorial for doing this? And is it printable? I hate online stuff as you seem to need 2 computers to do anything.

Thanks

just burn a ubuntu cd and boot from it.

---

