---
title: "Cannot find NTFS-3G mounts"
date: 2008-06-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mojo_man on 2008-06-10
Hi,

I used NTFS-3G to mount a NTFS windows partition I have on another drive and an icon was placed on my desktop so I could access it. Suddenly it has disappeared from my desktop.

When I run NTFS-3G from the menu bar I do not see that partition available to be configured by NTFS-3G--it's as if NTFS-3G considers it to be mounted already. 

Anyway to get the icon back?

This is my fstab and the windows partition I am referring to is there, it is DATA:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=c01e18a0-88a8-4585-a61b-3995225fc383 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=16058a4a-0273-4412-acfa-ba695dc38cdf none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/sda7 /media/Data ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/OS ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0
~

---

### Post by aysiu on 2008-06-11
When you go into the /media/Data directory, do you see anything?

In other words, is it still mounted but with no icon? Or is it not mounted at all?

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-06-11
you could try unmounting and mounting it back again

sudo umount /dev/sda7
sudo mount /dev/sda7

sudo umount /dev/sda1
sudo mount /dev/sda1

---

### Post by Victormd on 2008-06-11
> **mojo_man said:**
> I used NTFS-3G to mount a NTFS windows partition I have on another drive and an icon was placed on my desktop so I could access it. Suddenly it has disappeared from my desktop.


What version of ubuntu are you using? Hardy (or even gutsy) doesn't need NTFS-3G to mount NTFS partitions.

Check this [HOW TO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=802699")...

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-06-11
Try installing ntfs-config from synaptic.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-06-11
go to your places menu and see if it is there. sometimes an icon will disappear from the desktop, but it will still be in places.

---

### Post by Victormd on 2008-06-11
Hardy has NTFS pretty much under control, except for the automount which I don't know why doesn't happen...

---

### Post by mojo_man on 2008-06-11
> **Victormd said:**
> What version of ubuntu are you using? Hardy (or even gutsy) doesn't need NTFS-3G to mount NTFS partitions.

Check this [HOW TO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=802699")...

Okay some more info:

I am using version 7.10

No in /media I do not see the Data directory so it is unmounted.

In NTFS-CONFIG I can mount another partition but I do not see the partition I want to mount /media/Data. In fstab I tried putting a line in for /media/Data but it did not work:

/dev/sda7 /media/Data ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/OS ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0

Again, if I mount from root for media/Data it works fine and give me a desktop icon. I am thinking of putting a line in my .bash_profile to mount /media/Data...seems for some reason ntfs-config does not do it!

---

### Post by Victormd on 2008-06-13
Have you tried creating the directory manually and pointing your fstab to that directory?

---

