---
title: "8.04 and wireless drivers"
date: 2008-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by russki_drewski on 2008-05-01
So, I loaded Hardy Heron on to my computer with out any problems. Everything was smooth and easy and everything is *technically* working.

The one major limitation that Ubunutu poses for me is the performance of the wireless card drivers. My wireless works ... but the range is significantly limited as opposed to when I start my computer up in Vista. And sometimes it seems that when I'm in a spot that has a good signal that signal will gradually deteriorate, painfully decreasing performance. Sometimes to the point that it stops working and I have to disable/enable the wireless or restart the computer. Its a little frustrating and significantly limits my functionality in Linux.

Does anyone know of any fixes for this?

Dual boot: Ubuntu 8.04 & Win Vista
Make: Compaq
Model: Presario C571NR
CPU: Pentium Dual-Core 1.73GHZ
RAM: 2GB
WLAN: Broadcom 802.11b/g WLAN
*(Info about my card that might be useful - pulled from Window's Device Manager)*
     	Inf section			BCM43XG11_NT60
	Driver Assembly Version 	4.170.25.17
	Service				BCM43XX



This was a problem for me when I installed Ubuntu 7.10 for the first time and eventually it led to me phasing Ubuntu out of my computing because I really need the better wireless range for my computer.

Thanks so much for any help,
Drewski

---

### Post by iSplicer on 2008-05-01
Try a google search, with your card version and "ubuntu"

---

### Post by sam_delta on 2008-05-01
try reinstalling drivers

```
sudo apt-get purge b43-fwcutter
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter
```
restart


tell us how it goes
sam

---

### Post by russki_drewski on 2008-05-03
> **sam_delta said:**
> try reinstalling drivers

```
sudo apt-get purge b43-fwcutter
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter
```
restart


tell us how it goes
sam


Question for you Sam, does this just unload and load the drivers from what is already on the computer or does it try to connect to the internet to update those drivers?

---

### Post by sam_delta on 2008-05-03
it completely uninstalls the current drivers and then downloads the newest drivers and firmware for your broadcom from Ubuntu servers

due to the fact that it downloads the newest drivers and firmware, make sure you have your wired connection plugged in

sam

---

### Post by russki_drewski on 2008-05-14
Oh boy, where's the undo button?! I haven't yet tried the suggestion from sam_delta, but what I did try was downloading a utility from the Add/Remove section in the main menue. The utility was called something like "Configure Network Card" (I don't remember exactly and I can't check right now. I have to do internet in Vista). Anyhow, I download it and run it thinking maybe it will help something. Well after it ran through its own network wizard and my wifi stopped working! In the corner where it shows the network icon it just showed the icon for the wired connection and not the wireless. I rest my mouse over it and it says "Manual Configuration". So maybe the wizard created some sort of configuration that overrides any of the automatic configuration it was doing before to work. If I plug in a network cable it will connect but not the Wifi. I did try uninstalling and re-installing the wifi drivers but not using the terminal. I just used the restricted drives manager from the top menu. It didn't help. :(

Thanks for the help,
Russki_Drewski

btw
Sam_delta, the main reason I haven't tried your suggestion is because I've not really used the terminal yet in Linux and I haven't learning anything about it. I know there are some articles on the site about the terminal in Linux and I've not at one of them. Is there a good place or some article in particular  where you would reccomend me to go to?

Thx again.

---

### Post by russki_drewski on 2008-05-14
Just a quick note that's not entirely related to the topic:
I love running Ubuntu! Yeah, its a little quirky but when I'm running Linux my machine performs like a brand new computer!

---

### Post by NIT006.5 on 2008-05-14
I'm using the same card and couldn't get it to work immediately after upgrading to Hardy. However, updating the drivers solved it for me. Using the terminal isn't that complicated. Just open it and type the commands (or copy/paste) exactly as they're shown above (one line, one command). Not sure what to suggest now that it's not working at all though. I've had similar issues trying to use other "tools" to configure interfaces, so I generally stay away from "extras" like that now. Have you uninstalled the app that messed it up to see if that makes a difference?

---

### Post by russki_drewski on 2008-05-14
Oh yeah, I uninstalled it real quick. It didn't help though. :(

---

### Post by russki_drewski on 2008-05-14
NIT006.5

What kind of computer are you running Ubuntu on?

---

### Post by NIT006.5 on 2008-05-14
HP nx9010 with PCMCIA wireless card.

---

### Post by russki_drewski on 2008-05-14
So does anyone have an idea on how to fix my problem? Or do I need to reinstall Ubuntu 8.04? I don't want reinstall. I would rather *learn* how to fix it. :)

---

### Post by sam_delta on 2008-05-14
try typing the commands i told you, every single one of us step into the terminal for one first time :p, i know its scary, but the terminal is powerful as easy to do hard things, those commands i mentioned, nothing could go wrong that would mess your system, if you want a full explanation of what does these commands do, here we go

IMPORTANT
Remember to plug your cable connection to type those commands, as they download some drivers

what you will do is similar to :

going into add/remove, and uninstalling the driver b43-fwcutter (just in case you have them installed), 
then, update your list of the software available
and finally download and install newest b43-fwcutter

note:::: dont be afraid if you see lots of text appearing in your terminal after typing a command :P, it MIGHT ask you if you want to fetch a firmware, answer with a "Y" for yes, ,,, you will know when its finish and can type the next command when the 
"someone@somewhere:~$  "  thing appear again.

thats it, dont be afraid, step into the terminal and tell us how it goes

sam

---

### Post by russki_drewski on 2008-05-14
Well, I tried it. It didn't seem to work at first but then I looked at some of the options in the Network Settings under the System->Administration->Network option and I did something and then it worked. ?? Oh, well. Which ever it was it worked!

However, its still working the same as it was before. Right now I am 10 feet from my wireless router and the signal strength varies quite a bit, anywhere from 66% to 91%. Is there a way to help it perform better? I know its capable of much better. In Vista it will grab a signal from about 100 feet across the yard in the little cabin that I use for my room.

Thanks for helping me get it back to where it was! I hope I can get it working at optimal performance. :)

Drewski

---

### Post by russki_drewski on 2008-05-15
So, no takers?

---

### Post by NIT006.5 on 2008-05-15
> **russki_drewski said:**
> So, no takers?

Sorry, I'm out of ideas. To be honest I have not been impressed with the range on mine either, but I assumed it was just the card because I haven't used it under a different OS. Using a Trendnet usb wireless adapter though, I get excellent range, so it's obviously just something about the combination of that card and Ubuntu. Sorry I can't offer any more assistance. You'll have to wait for someone how knows more about this.

---

### Post by ProNux on 2008-10-12
> **russki_drewski said:**
> Oh boy, where's the undo button?! I haven't yet tried the suggestion from sam_delta, but what I did try was downloading a utility from the Add/Remove section in the main menue. The utility was called something like "Configure Network Card" (I don't remember exactly and I can't check right now. I have to do internet in Vista). Anyhow, I download it and run it thinking maybe it will help something. Well after it ran through its own network wizard and my wifi stopped working! In the corner where it shows the network icon it just showed the icon for the wired connection and not the wireless. I rest my mouse over it and it says "Manual Configuration". So maybe the wizard created some sort of configuration that overrides any of the automatic configuration it was doing before to work. If I plug in a network cable it will connect but not the Wifi. I did try uninstalling and re-installing the wifi drivers but not using the terminal. I just used the restricted drives manager from the top menu. It didn't help. :(

Thanks for the help,
Russki_Drewski

btw
Sam_delta, the main reason I haven't tried your suggestion is because I've not really used the terminal yet in Linux and I haven't learning anything about it. I know there are some articles on the site about the terminal in Linux and I've not at one of them. Is there a good place or some article in particular  where you would reccomend me to go to?

Thx again.

I think you are already HALFWAY to go.  Go to "Manual Configuration" as what you said above.  Disable "Roaming" and enter the SSID and other ddetails needed.  Double check the "System-Administration-Hardware Drivers".  The driver you have installed should be there, and be sure to enable (check IN-USE).

Hope this helps.  I am not an expert, but this was just my experience.

Type also in the terminal to check your WLAN:

ifconfig

On my Ralink RT73, its name is rausb0.

Now back to the terminal.  Try typing this one:

sudo dhclient rausb0 

(enter password and press enter)

it should display in the end something like...

DHCPREQUEST of xxx.xxx.xxx.119 on rausb0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
DHCPACK of xxx.xxx.xxx.119 from 192.168.0.1
bound to xxx.xxx.xxx.119 -- renewal in 572352 seconds.

If not, try restarting your PC.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-10-12
plr post the output of
```

iwconfig

```

---

