---
title: "10.04 gamepad/joystick too sensetive after calibration"
date: 2010-05-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Protocol84 on 2010-05-26
I am running Kubuntu 10.04 and am using a Logitech dual action game pad. 

My game pad seemed to have too large of a dead zone so I went in to calibrate it. Before I calibrated it was sending values in range of 0-327 but after i calibrated it it is now sending values in the 0-32767 so the game I am running (Flatout 2) now is way too touchy to use! 

In the in-game settings I have sensitivity to 0 and dead-zone to 100, but even when I do not have my hand on the controller the joysticks are still sending a value that causes the throttle to go and my steering to go off to either direction.

I have tried recalibrating and using jscal to set the sensitivity or the value range but I think I am missing something because nothing I have done has any effect.

In the system settings I go to the joystick and the two joysticks on my game-pad will not register 0 unless I fiddle with them, so it is always sending out a value in the 256-512 range, sometimes more. 

How can I set a dead zone or reduce the sensitivity?:confused:

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-05-27
Try locating the configuration files for js* the program you tried to use to calibrate your joystick you might have to manually edit it.

---

### Post by Protocol84 on 2010-05-27
I used jscal -s to set the values in the /var/lib/joystick/joystick.state file and even edited it manually, but it doesn't seem to change anything at all.

I don't even know what values are valid in the precision number or what that will affect.
I have tried -1 through 10 and even -100 and up to 100 on all 4 axis but it doesn't seem to work.

my values look like this after calibration:

jscal -s 6,1,0,122,122,4400447,4036500,1,0,128,128,4194176,4227201,1,0,128,128,4194176,4227201,1,0,127,127,4227201,4511383,1,0,0,0,536854528,536854528,1,0,0,0,536854528,536854528 /dev/input/js0

I need help on the syntax of this to reduce the sensitivity by about 10x or just give it a little bit larger of a dead-zone.

EDIT: I may have found the issue with the values not setting, in the man page for jscal it says "On Debian systems the calibration settings are stored at shutdown and restored at bootup, by the joystick initialization script." (umm, what is a Debian system?) If I am reading this correctly it means that I must reboot for settings to take effect. I was use to this in windows but have gotten use to installing programs and updates without having to do so in Kubuntu, but alas the mantra still applies: "if all else fails, reboot"

I do not have time tonight to verify this tonight but I will start on it tomorrow morning and update on the progress for the other 350 people that have looked at this thread and may be having a similar issue.

**EDIT**

Sorry for not getting back to this issue, I don't think I ever got it fixed properly  on KDE. Shortly after I had this issue I switched distros and haven't used my joypad really since.  I am now running Ubuntu 10.10 and Ultimate Edition Gamers 2.8, I will see if I can replicate and then fix this issue in this OS and then post my results.

---

