---
title: "9.04 upgrade broke my main machine..."
date: 2009-05-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pablolie on 2009-05-03
so the upgrade to 9.04, which went smoothly on 2 other machines, broke my main machine. admittedly it has less straight-forward hardware configuration with a dual-booth RAID (what some in here call a fake or soft RAID)....

after the upgrade, the Ubuntu partition will show the yellow dot bouncing left to right for a while, and then i get a notification that goes...

no block devices found
alert! /dev/mapper/isw_ecca...raid-c5 does not exist
dropping to shell
(initramfs)

it doesn't take a genius IQ to sense that the driver for the soft RAID booth drive got messed up as part of the upgrade (it is odd the system gets to the basic ubuntu startup screen at all then, though)...

the vista 64 partition and the basic grub loader work ok. but ubuntu 9.04 doesn't start up... darn darn darn...

so my question is - anything i can configure in the shell to get this to work again? or do i have to go for the 8.10 intstallation disk again, do things as i did back then, and leave 9.04 alone? it is a shame, really, i miss ubuntu on this machine.

---

### Post by e_james on 2009-05-04
When it comes to linux I am no expert and definitely not where raid is concerned, but I am thinking - why not do with 9.04 what you may eventually do with 8.10? I am assuming that you use the term 'upgrade' to mean an official upgrade procedure and not simply installing 9.04 as a replacement for 8.10 which is what I am now suggesting. I have tried the upgrade procedure a few times myself and I have yet to be completely successful.

---

### Post by pablolie on 2009-05-04
> **e_james said:**
> When it comes to linux I am no expert and definitely not where raid is concerned, but I am thinking - why not do with 9.04 what you may eventually do with 8.10? I am assuming that you use the term 'upgrade' to mean an official upgrade procedure and not simply installing 9.04 as a replacement for 8.10 which is what I am now suggesting. I have tried the upgrade procedure a few times myself and I have yet to be completely successful.

first try with the alternate 9.04 cd was not successful. i am going back to the 8 version. the fake RAID implementation in 9.04.... beware is all i can say.

---

### Post by e_james on 2009-05-04
Understood. My own experience of 9.04, so far, has been just on the positive side of neutral. The main problem is the selection of 1280x1024 resolution for an undetected monitor. It's not what I would call a failsafe option, but then older versions did that too. I'm tempted to report it as a bug.

---

### Post by xx58 on 2009-05-04
:KS I made back up to DVD RW at 8.10 and then first time I made upgrade. It was not worked for me. So then I made clean install at 9.04 and again don't worked. So, then I restore my 8.10 witch one worked very well and I will wait 2 month and then try again to install 9.04. I have for 8.10 support to 2010 and at this time I will find what will work just like 8.10 and 8.04. Pacient my friends from Linux forum. I just love Linux.

---

