---
title: "n00b"
date: 2010-09-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by o10vulcan010 on 2010-09-04
Hey everybody!

I am completely new to the forums, and I am downloading Ubuntu Desktop Edition as I write this. I have read ugm6hr's sticky thread and most of the info on ubuntu.com, as well as lots of stuff on the forums. But I just need to confirm if I can run Ubuntu on my EDH, as the answers I seem to be getting are "It depends...".

The solution to this problem, as well as any other general Ubuntu help would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks!

---

### Post by Lateralis on 2010-09-04
What do you mean by EDH?  Did you mean EHD, by which you mean external hard drive?  

If yes, then I think the answer "it depends" is pretty valid as we need more info. Does your motherboard support booting from USB for instance?  

If no, then...?

---

### Post by Chris1274 on 2010-09-04
I honestly don't know what an EDH is, but there's an easy way to check: before you install Ubuntu, just run a live session from the bootable CD and see how it works on your computer. It won't make any changes to your system and you can see for yourself how compatible it is.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-09-04
Hi vulcan, Welcome here :)

I really don't know if you can run it on your EDH,(honestly im not sure what that is) lol
but Im sure that answer will roll in shortly. 

 But, I was in the same place as you, about 8-9 months ago, total noob. lol

 So I can offer a few simple tips that I found to be crucial upon installing Ubuntu. 

 For one, You will probably want to install ubuntu-restricted-extras. 
Are you familiar at all with how to download/install apps? 

 the ubuntu restricted extras allow you to play just about every file format you can think of. 
It contains just about all codecs youll need to play any of your files, music, videos, etc. 

 Here is a great guide for beginners~[http://ubuntu-manual.org/](http://ubuntu-manual.org/)
Download the PDF and give it a read. its really well done!

 There are a couple different ways you can download and install apps/programs through your desktop. 

 Just in case you don;t know, 
 Ill tell you how to go get the restricted extras. 

 Easiest way for a beginner I think~

IS when you finally get into your Ubuntu,
Click on the "**Applications**" Menu at the top left. 

in the drop down menu, at the bottom, you'll see "Ubuntu software center"

Open that.

 When that is open, Youll see a search bar in the top right~
Simply type "ubuntu restricted extras" w/out the quotes, and it will appear in the menu below.
 Then Click 'install", give your password, and It will install. 

Now you're ready to play any kind of file you can probably imagine. 


Sorry if you already know this. 

 Feel free to ask all the Q's you can think of. 
 Lots and lots of very smart, very helpful people here ready and willing to help whoever needs it. :)

 Good luck, :D <3

---

### Post by o10vulcan010 on 2010-09-04
sorry.. that was as typo.... i meant to say EHD (e.g. external hard drive). Thanks for all the help, and yeah, i can boot from my Seagate 320gb EHD. I guess that means there's a good chance of it working?

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-09-04
> **o10vulcan010 said:**
> sorry.. that was as typo.... i meant to say EHD (e.g. external hard drive). Thanks for all the help, and yeah, i can boot from my Seagate 320gb EHD. I guess that means there's a good chance of it working?

Well, I have a friend who I setup with Ubuntu,
and he boots from his 250GB external seagate drive. 

So I dont want to say 'yes" for sure to you,
but yeah, there's a good chance you'll be ok. :)

---

### Post by o10vulcan010 on 2010-09-04
Thanks. I'll give it a go. And that pdf guide you suggested looks great!

Thanks for all your help everyone!

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-09-04
No problem. 

 Yeah that guide is great!

It wasnt out when I started with Ubuntu, 
I read a handful of others, a bit more complicated than that one. 
But I read that new one about a week ago, Just because it couldnt hurt,
and it would have been awesome if it was out when I first started. 

 But here is another good one~
[http://www.ubuntupocketguide.com/download_main.html](http://www.ubuntupocketguide.com/download_main.html)

 Ive got a list of others to, if you want me to dig it out and list them for you.

---

