---
title: "How can I edit GRUB 2?"
date: 2009-11-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bwallum on 2009-11-17
Hi

I have an external, bootable, USB hard drive that currently runs Jaunty and Grub legacy. I want to update to Karmic and Grub 2.

I sort of understood how to change groot in the menu.lst file.

I have had a look at the GRUB 2 file structure and read the readme and remain uncertain.

What I am trying to achieve is to upgrade to Karmic and Grub 2 on the external drive. I suspect it will install grub on the drive as though it were the fourth drive in the system (that is what happened with legacy Grub anyway, I have three internal drives installed) so I want to tweak a file to say that the external drive is the first bootable drive (previously by making groot=(hd0,0)).

That will then allow me use the external drive to boot from, on any system, by setting cmos setup to boot the drive first. (works a treat at the moment on Jaunty and legacy Grub)

What files do I need to edit in Grub 2 to achieve this please?

---

### Post by zeroseven0183 on 2009-11-17
I'm not that familiar with the new Grub2 and I'm not a Grub expert but one thing I know is (I hope I'm correct) that the old /boot/grub/**menu.lst** is now /boot/grub/**grub.cfg** in Grub2.

Once you open the file, you will see a different set up of the commands but you will easily identify which of the commands are for the hard drive selection.

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by bwallum on 2009-11-17
Thanks for the response. On opening grub.cfg it said DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE so I looked a bit further and found philinux's link to [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

Still trawling through it but it seems very comprehensive.

---

### Post by ukripper on 2009-11-17
This may be helpful - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275&highlight=customize+grub2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275&highlight=customize+grub2)

Yes you are right new menu file to edit is /etc/default/grub

Do not edit grub.cfg

---

### Post by eltama on 2009-11-17
I would just intall hardy over your old jaunty. 
If my memory doesn't fail, on the last step of the installation dialog there is a button called Advanced where you can select which partition will be used to read the grub configuration. If you don't change anything it will install a new grub2 from the partition where you will install the new Ubuntu. And if I understood right, that is what you want.
It will automatically recognize the other OSes (grub2 is much better at that), although it's not easy to make it look as you would like.

---

### Post by bwallum on 2009-12-12
> **ukripper said:**
> This may be helpful - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275&highlight=customize+grub2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275&highlight=customize+grub2)

Yes you are right new menu file to edit is /etc/default/grub

Do not edit grub.cfg

I can't see anything in this file that allows me to specify where (mbr of drive) GRUB2 is installed. Am I missing something?

---

### Post by bwallum on 2009-12-31
ahemmm....bump

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-01-01
eltama mentioned the advanced button during the install. That lets you choose where to install grub. It would normally install to the boot drive as defined by the BIOS since it assumes you now want to use your new install. If you want it to default to another drive make that drive first in BIOS before you install.

If you want to reinstall grub to another drive, you have to know which drive is sda, sdb etc as that is what it will ask:
sudo dpkg-reconfigure grub-pc

If grub overwrites another boot loader you can reinstall:
How to restore the Ubuntu/XP/Vista/7 bootloader (Updated for Ubuntu 9.10)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014708](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014708)

---

### Post by bwallum on 2010-01-04
Great steer thanks. I have now got my external usb running!

Couple of problems on the way, if the external usb is connected to a pc with os('s) installed on internal drives then the internal drives are screwed. Solution is to disconnect the external drive and then reinstall grub to the internal drive of choice.

A real issue appears to be the way Grub2 auto changes settings of other drives that also have Grub2 installed. Is there any way to just install Grub2 on a drive AND prevent it from adjusting any Grub2 setups on other drives?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-01-04
I have not tried it but someone said this works:


reinstalls grub and allows choice of which drive to install to. Choose boot drive if not sda
sudo dpkg-reconfigure grub-pc
I finally found out how to prevent the MBR to be overwritten.
I ran dpkg-reconfigure grub-pc and deselected /dev/sda which meant that the values field for grub-pc/install_devices in /var/cache/apt/config.dat is now empty. Then nothing is written to the MBR or the boot sector when grub-pc gets updated. Occasionally I should probably rerun manually grub-install /dev/sda2 after grub-pc package updates to keep stage1 install in sync.

---

