---
title: "11.04 Where in the command prompt"
date: 2011-05-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ctdahle on 2011-05-16
Just upgraded to 11.04 and the first thing that hits me is that I can't find the command prompt.

The second is that instead of having all my applications nicely grouped by type, they are all dumped together in one big $*&!@ alphabetical list.

The third is that the friggin side bar is the kind of crap that drove me away from Windows.

My fourth is how the hell do I dial back to lucid?

Way to go Canonical. Way to stop the move to Linux dead in it's tracks.

---

### Post by wojox on 2011-05-16
1. Ctrl+Alt+T
2. ?
3. ?
4. Reinstall

---

### Post by eltommo on 2011-05-16
don't freak out about change, it can be a good thing. if you want to change back to the "classic" gnome, see if you can choose the option in the login screen. it would be under session type or something like that.

---

### Post by compmodder26 on 2011-05-16
??

What version of windows have you used that had a sidebar?

Now for you other concerns; yes, the dash is a bit hard to navigate and could be much better thought out.  Having said that, you can use the search functionality in the dash to quickly access your programs.  For example, if you want a terminal, just open the dash and type "terminal".

For a somewhat more traditional look at your categories of programs, right click on the launcher with a "+" in it on the sidebar.

---

### Post by ctdahle on 2011-05-16
The session choice is "Ubuntu Classic" apparently. Gnome is not one of the choices.

I do not hate or fear change in general, but I do despise it when imposed merely for its own sake.

It appears to me that Canonical are doing their dam*dest to isolate users from the command line, and by making it harder to access, they are making it harder for users to learn and use the power and flexibility of Linux/Unix.

Whatever this new interface is called, it does not seem not particularly friendly or easy to navigate and it requires more mousing around then ever before. But I guess that's just me. Others appear to like it just fine.

I just don't see making Ubuntu feel more like Windows Vista as being a positive step.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-16
> **ctdahle said:**
> Just upgraded to 11.04 and the first thing that hits me is that I can't find the command prompt.

The second is that instead of having all my applications nicely grouped by type, they are all dumped together in one big $*&!@ alphabetical list.

The third is that the friggin side bar is the kind of crap that drove me away from Windows.

My fourth is how the hell do I dial back to lucid?

Way to go Canonical. Way to stop the move to Linux dead in it's tracks.
Were you running a display manager when you made the decision to upgrade?

---

### Post by eltommo on 2011-05-16
Personally I welcome these changes; it keeps things interesting. If you want a terminal thats easy to access, install guake (sudo apt-get install guake or find it in the software center). Set it to run on startup (startup applications) then you will only need to press f12 to launch a non-intrusive terminal

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2011-05-17
> **ctdahle said:**
> The session choice is "Ubuntu Classic" apparently. Gnome is not one of the choices.

I do not hate or fear change in general, but I do despise it when imposed merely for its own sake.

It appears to me that Canonical are doing their dam*dest to isolate users from the command line, and by making it harder to access, they are making it harder for users to learn and use the power and flexibility of Linux/Unix.

Whatever this new interface is called, it does not seem not particularly friendly or easy to navigate and it requires more mousing around then ever before. But I guess that's just me. Others appear to like it just fine.

I just don't see making Ubuntu feel more like Windows Vista as being a positive step.

Alt+f2 opens the command prompt.
Download the attached wallpaper to help navigate Unity.

In the Software Centre search for and download **ccsm** to configure the unity launcher etc.

---

### Post by NCLI on 2011-05-17
The terminal is not hidden anymore than any other application.

---

### Post by bennachie on 2011-05-17
Off the top of my head, the only distribution I can think of that gets you to the terminal directly from the main menu, without first having added the package to your list of favourites, is Linux Mint (which may also provide a safe refuge if you really can't stand Unity). 

In any case, I've never been that keen on having the "Terminal" link buried in the "Accessories" category. "System Tools" would surely have been a more logical choice. Gnome3 makes the application categories immediately obvious (they appear to the right of the grid of application icons), but you have to move the mouse a good deal further to make your choice than when right-clicking on the applications icon, and selecting a category, from the Unity sidebar. Swings and roundabouts really. I find Unity particularly good on my netbook, both Unity and Gnome3 are fine on my laptop, and both can be a bit tedious to use on a 26-inch screen (Unity is worse because the global menu panel always seems to be a long way away from the window to which it refers at any given time).

---

### Post by anjilslaire on 2011-05-17
> **compmodder26 said:**
> What version of windows have you used that had a sidebar?

Vista & 7 have a sidebar to hold Gadgets (widgets)

---

### Post by ambar686413 on 2011-05-17
just go to the Application in the sidebar . and type terminal in the search box... you can see the terminal....:guitar:

---

### Post by bennachie on 2011-05-17
YMMV, but hitting Ctrl+Alt+T seems like rather less effort than typing "terminal"!

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-17
Install a drop=down terminal. One key-stroke away.
You know.....you can have all there is in Unity and more with FVWM or E16.

---

### Post by compmodder26 on 2011-05-17
> **anjilslaire said:**
> Vista & 7 have a sidebar to hold Gadgets (widgets)

Yeah, but that's not remotely close to what he is talking about.  He is complaining about the launcher bar on the left.

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2011-05-17
i configured win7 so the bottom panel occupies left side now - on a crappy notebook low res display you are much more starved for vertical resolution. Try using apps with lots of menus and stuff (office, ff3.6) - you almost don't get to see the actual content)

also if you want categories right click the app lens, it will show good ol' categories and picking one will make dash show only its apps.
besides, if you want terminal, pin it to the launcher so it's always there

---

