---
title: "10.04 Live CD Issue"
date: 2010-07-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by MegaMoogle on 2010-07-26
Firstly, thanks for looking to whether you can solve my problem.

I decided to try out Ubuntu on my new PC, and so I burnt the image onto a CD. I started my PC, and firstly I saw a small symbol at the bottom of the screen, with a small person in a circle. I pressed space, chose my language, which brought me to the menu screen, with various options including trying Ubuntu before installing. I pressed enter for that, and then things started to go wrong.

Either the screen goes black, or the entire PC reboots.

Can somebody tell me a possible solution?

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-07-26
When you get to the menu screen press F6 and select *nomodeset* with your spacebar.

---

### Post by MegaMoogle on 2010-07-26
I've tried the *nomodeset* fix, but it still doesn't work. The computer still reboots.

---

### Post by martygavin on 2010-07-26
PC make and embeded OS???

---

### Post by MegaMoogle on 2010-07-26
No make, I built it myself. I'm currently trying to use a Live CD just to see how fast my new PC is.

At the moment I have no current OS.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-07-26
We need to know what graphics card you have installed as well as other computer specifications such as RAM, hard disk capacity etc.

---

### Post by beew on 2010-07-26
"No make, I built it myself. I'm currently trying to use a Live CD just to see how fast my new PC is."

Live CD is painfully slow and for some reasons I was also getting strange error messages on start up. Try to make a live USB and boot from it instead if your computer can boot from usb. Usb is perfect, it doesn't take up space and it is fast and smooth and you can  also create persistence tos save your setting. Now no more CD for me. :)
[URL="http://www.pendrivelinux.com"]
http://www.pendrivelinux.com[/URL]

---

### Post by MegaMoogle on 2010-07-26
Ok. I'm using a Phenom II x2 555 BE CPU, 4GB OCZ DDR3 RAM, ATi HD 4890 Graphics card, 2 x 1TB Samsung HDDs.

Anything else needed?

I think I might start considering using a USB drive.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-07-27
You can look at the workarounds mentioned here:
 
[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/)
 
You need to try the *xforcevesa *option.
 
Hope this helps.

---

### Post by MegaMoogle on 2010-07-27
I don't think I get blank screens anymore, the PC just reboots, each and everytime. :icon_frown:

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-07-27
That sounds more like a hardware issue. You might want to check your setup before trying anything else.

---

### Post by MegaMoogle on 2010-07-27
Tried the hardware idea. Removed the Graphics Card, and a stick of RAM, and hey presto, seems that we get to a screen saying Ubuntu and has 5 dots underneath, changing from red to white. However, it never finishes.

Is this any further than the menu screen, as I just tapped the spacebar a lot when it seemed unresponsive, and then it rushed to this screen?

---

