---
title: "Move grub to differend hdd?"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by p22dude on 2010-10-12
Hey, I installed the netbook version of Ubuntu on my desktop PC, since its system specs are low, and I wanted to try it. No problems with this, but, I need to move the grub bootloader to a differend hdd. Here's my setup:

sata-0: XP install
sata-1: Vista Ultimate/Ubuntu Netbook install (Added Ubuntu after Vista)
iPod Mini via USB: 'liveCD' equivalent with grub.

Basically I had XP and Vista on seperate hdd's, and had them both boot, and choose which OS via default mbr. Worked fine. I installed the Ubuntu netbook liveCD via a USB installer and booted to USB. I created a partition on my 1 TB Vista drive for Ubuntu and installed there. No problems as I'm typing this in Ubuntu, however grub somehow got installed on my iPod Mini (the click-wheel broke, so it's now an external hdd, in case you're wondering). All I need to do is move grub to my Vista/Ubuntu drive, so I can boot via grub without having to have the iPod plugged in and bootable. My main annoyance with my BIOS is that although it allows you to select which devices to boot from and in what order, it only allows you to do so within specific categories. For example, I can make SATA HDDs boot before IDE, but having two SATA drives, my BIOS won't let me specify WHICH SATA drive to boot first, so I have to disable one.

Any help would be much appreciated.

-p22dude

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-10-12
You should be able to just use this command:
```
sudo grub-install --recheck /dev/<your Ubuntu drive>  
```
Example: sudo grub-install --recheck /dev/sdb

It will install the Grub folder in the current partition and write to the MBR of the *drive* you specify. Don't designate a partition.

After you run the command, I'd run "update-grub" just to make sure it finds Windows. Before rebooting, I'd inspect the RESULTS.txt file generated by the boot info script, which you can download from [_http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/_]("http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/")

Added: Inspect your folders after you have run the grub-install command and make sure the /etc/grub.d folder and /etc/default/grub file exist on your Ubuntu partition. If they don't (and are on the external), install grub-common and grub-pc.

---

### Post by crip720 on 2010-10-12
Thanks to Drs305 for solving my similar problem, Colin.

---

