---
title: "12.04.1 Wireless NOT WORKING"
date: 2013-01-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by MONSTA KAWI 125 on 2013-01-05
Im running ubuntu 12.04.1 on my HP Pavillion dv9000. The wireless internet is not working what so ever. When I open the wireless thing at the top no wireless networks pop up but it does give me a couple options. Connect to a hidden wireless network, create new wireless network. I have tried both of these and it attempts to connect but does not complete. please help. Honestly I HATE Ubuntu and I am trying to get back on Windows but havent been able to pick up a disc so I need the wireless working while I have to deal with this crappy operating system.:popcorn:

---

### Post by Abhinav Kumar on 2013-01-06
> **MONSTA KAWI 125 said:**
> Im running ubuntu 12.04.1 on my HP Pavillion dv9000. The wireless internet is not working what so ever. When I open the wireless thing at the top no wireless networks pop up but it does give me a couple options. Connect to a hidden wireless network, create new wireless network. I have tried both of these and it attempts to connect but does not complete. please help. 
Hi MONSTA KAWI 125,
Is your wired network connection working? 

I think your system doesn't have the proper drivers. Please post the output of the following commands
```

sudo lshw -C network
lspci | egrep Network

```
> **MONSTA KAWI 125 said:**
>  Honestly I HATE Ubuntu and I am trying to get back on Windows but havent been able to pick up a disc so I need the wireless working while I have to deal with this crappy operating system.:popcorn:
Remember no OS is crappy, each has its own flavour. We **prefer** OS based on the level of comfort. Judging an OS based on one problem is too harsh. Linux is superb but it takes a bit to get used to it but even Windows has many limitations.

Regards
Abhinav

---

### Post by iMac71 on 2013-01-06
If you have a live CD or a live DVD or an ISO image burned on an USB stick, boot from it and verify, when the desktop is loaded, if additional drivers are available; if so, your wireless card is recognized by Ubuntu.

---

