---
title: "11.10, 64-bit, new install, hardware raid - no boot"
date: 2012-02-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-02-27
I'm hoping someone here may have run into this type of problem regardless of motherboard and can therefore help me out a little.

Ijust finished the build of a new PC - 8 core/16GB/2-Seagate SATA 6 1.5TB/Asus M5A97 motherboard.

The motherboard allows setting up RAID in the BIOS.  I did set it up - it shows the RAID 1 array and the logical device name.  After setting that in the BIOS, I booted the Ubuntu 11.10 64-bit desktop LiveCD and installed Ubuntu - including whatever it downloaded and the extras at install time.

Now I have a little problem - I can't get it to boot the RAID set.  I updated the BIOS to show the logical device name in the boot device selections, but it never boots.

On this particular motherboard there are 6 SATA 6 ports.  The ports 1-4 seem to be grouped together as do ports 5 and 6.  The 2 drives are on ports in the 1-4 range (I don't remember which right now).  My SATA dvd drive is on port 5.  For setting up RAID,  I changed the port settings for the group ports 1-4 to RAID.  This automatically set ports 5 and 6 as IDE - SATA immitating IDE from what I can tell.  It does boot from dvd so that part must be ok.

Ubuntu installed fine, except grub came up with an error about not being able to install to sda1 - I changed it to the list item that showed "(RAID)" on it and then installation finished.  Now I don't even get the grub menu.  I therefore assume it's the location of the grub loader,  Only thing is I don't know how, with hardware RAID, to specify where the grub loader goes so it will boot.

Any insights would be greatly appreciated!

Thanks in advance!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-02-27
A small update:

- it tries to install grub to sda1 and that fails
- I tried the RAID logical device name (sys001) - just sits at a blinking cursor and never starts grub
- I tried the option to put it on the 1st device in the RAID set - just sits at a blinking cursor and never starts grub
- if I completely remove RAID, it installs, grub comes up and I can boot, and it shows the 2nd drive as a separate drive
- I tried the single-drive install and then tried setting up RAID in the BIOS to add the 2nd drive as a shadow.  It says it going to remove the MBR or it won't let you do it.  Needless to say, removing the MBR leaves nothing to boot with.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by scheuri on 2012-02-27
Hi there

I can not help you exactly, but I have to point out the following:

You do not have hardware RAID. What you have is "fake RAID".
It is something between "Software RAID" (done by the OS itself entirely) and "Hardware RAID" (dedicated hardware with own BIOS and everything, usually rather expensive stuff).

Fake RAID needs drivers. Usually for Windows those drivers are available. For Linux the chipset has to be supported (usually there is no driver from the manufacturer). Fake RAID only supports the OS doing the whole RAID stuff, but does not actually take it away completely (like Hardware RAID).

Chances are (and I guess that is the exact problem) that Ubuntu does not support the Fake RAID chip and therefor gets troubles.

I would recommend to you that you run the harddisk in "normal" mode (as single devices) and use software RAID.

For further information I kindly redirect you to google with the keywords of "ubuntu" (or linux) and "fake raid".
A start might be here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FakeRaidHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FakeRaidHowto)

Cheers
scheuri

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-02-27
Wow, sure didn't know any of that!  I'll buzz over to the link and see what I can do.  I guess when they say the chip has on-board RAID it's a little deceiving.  I went back and re-read the RAID instructions in the motherboard book, and found exactly what you're talking about - if Windows, you have to have a driver disk at the time you install Windows.  I was mistakenly taking that as a Windows-only thing.  My mistake!

Thanks my friend!

dave ;)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-02-27
I do not know RAID either. 

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RAID](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RAID)

But why do you want RAID. Many confuse RAID with backup which it is not. It is primarily for uptime with RAID 5 or more as hardware RAID (hot swap) and improved throughput for a server. With a desktop you cannot type faster and most users do not have Internet speeds that make a difference. If compiling lots of programs and need system speed a SSD is often a better choice.

Linux often needs RAID drivers to work with RAID. They are normally on the alternate or server installs but not the desktop install.

sudo apt-get install mdadm

Once you install RAID to a drive, it leave meta-data on the drive that can interfere with a non-RAID install. Install is smart enough not to damage RAID. which it may think is still there. Be sure to remove meta-data if you ever use drives separate from the RAID.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-02-27
Well, I intended to use RAID 1 so I'd have a shadow.  I don't have a clue how this works in the PC/Linux arena, but in the world I came from if you had that set up on a volume or volume set you could use the shadow device(s) when one set of the array failed.  Basically, I want to avoid as much as possible having to do normal backups.  That's why I bought 2 of the same drive (otherwise I really wouldn't have a need for 3 TB of space).

And to top things off, I've gotten myself into the mess you're talking about:  for some reason after setting up my partitions as per the software raid how-to (not the fakeraid), sure enough something happened to where it couldn't find the big partitions and I couldn't install (this was using the 11.10 64-bit alternate install CD).  So, I went in and tried to delete what I had - that didn't work.  So I went in and somehow it let me set a new partition table on both devices so it looks like I don't have RAID.  Only problem is when I try to install now it says there is no root and won't save it.

Which led me to another thread you posted on about removing software RAID where the OP was in my same position - couldn't seem to get rid of the software RAID but didn't have the system installed yet.  Since I did get rid of the partition table, I can only assume it has something to do with what you were calling the superblocks there ("I ain't gotta a clue on that, either").  So, I'm in the process of trying to zero the superblocks as you showed in that thread after having booted a 11.10 64-bit LiveCD.

I hope it works!

In the meantime, doesn't RAID 1 provide the backup I'm used to from the "big" computer world?

Thanks oldfred!

Dave

BTW - hope things are going great with you!

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-02-27
Help!!  I tried what was in this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1646982]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1646982")

but -- dmraid says no RAID defined.  mdadm not installed, and for some reason, even though my wireless could connect to my network BEFORE I selected the "try ubuntu", once it booted to the "try me" it doesn't see any wireless networks, so I can't get online and download mdadm to zero the superblocks (again - I've got no clue what those are -> the world I was in in the 70's, 80's and 90's we didn't have - or at least that wasn't a term used for it if we did - on our disks  - big iron - I was a systems programmer and systems admin).

Feeling EXTREMELY stupid at the moment.  I tried just installing the normal desktop edition - it's the one that says no root defined.

Hopefully I haven't permanently hosed my multi-$100 set of disks!  I'm on disability, and it was hard saving up for all of this, so I sure hope I haven't been so stupid as to ruin it all before I even got an OS installed!

Thanks again!

dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-02-27
I should probably clarify what I meant about backups - not backups in the sense of backing up important things so I can recover them, but backup of the image so I can just keeping running in case of device failure.

Also, don't ask me how (I don't have a clue again!) but for some reason a normal 64-bit installation is actually running right now.  I let it do the automatic partitioning using the entire disk this time instead of trying to manually partition things.

So, if I get this back up to the desktop, but with RAID1, is there a way to create a RAID1 set using an running disk?  "Back in the day" (it's a pain getting older!) we could create RAID sets, add/remove volumes, etc., on the fly.  It was always so wonderful adding a shadow set and watch it run the "shadow copy in progress" by for a long time.

Well, while I was penning this epistle, the normal desktop installation finished and did boot. The 2nd disk just show as unpartitioned space.

So, any way to create RAID1 on the fly or at least with an existing disk?

Thanks!

Dave ;)

EDIT:  Found a [sourceforge page]("http://www.howtoforge.com/software-raid1-grub-boot-debian-etch") for doing this in debian so I thought it might work.  Need to install mdadm and an apt-get install of mdadm files saying the package is missing, obsoleted or is only available from another source.

Guess I'm stuck with 2 drives when I only needed 1 - I'd like to take it back but I don't think MicroCenter will take it back when I've attempted RAID on it as I have no clue what type of residual crap might be on it.  At least there's no personal information! ;)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-02-27
Presence1960 on remove old raid setting from HD
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1325650](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1325650)
sudo dmraid -E -r /dev/sda
sudo dmraid -E -r /dev/sdb
Also check BIOS for raid settings
More discusion:
[http://wwww.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9274738#post9274738](http://wwww.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9274738#post9274738)

Our corporate sever ran hardware RAID. You could hot swap a failing drive while running, although system became slower. But we ran nightly tape backups as any data deleted was also deleted in all the RAID drives. Most issues were data that was deleted or modified and they wanted the original which was not in the RAID set. A full mirror actually makes system slower as then everything is written twice.

You can run rsync on an automated basis to have regular backups. Not quite the same as RAID, but everything can be backed up.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-02-27
Yeah, this is too much of a hassle compared to what I was used to.  I just got back from taking the drive back to MicroCenter and got a 60GB SSD instead ($94.99, $69 after rebate) to put the OS on and I'll place home over on the 1.5TB drive I have left.  Only thing:  the drive I took back, like the one I kept, is SATA6 - the SSD is only SATA3.  I'm hoping the difference is more than made up for in latency (hey, there's no spinning platter - how hard can it be to just directly address memory instead of reading/stepping/waiting for the sector to come back around/repeat - I would expect a significant difference but who knows.  Will find out later tonight.

In the meantime - thanks again oldfred!

Marking as "solved" since no longer doing RAID.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-02-28
There are a lot of threads on SSDs also. 

I just installed one, and just put two 30GB / (root) partitions so I can alternate new installs. I keep /home inside / so user settings are still on SSD, but put all data on the spinning drives.

OP asked some interesting questions on SSD which I do not know answers.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1932325](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1932325)

---

