---
title: "9.04 no sound"
date: 2009-09-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by allen blake on 2009-09-21
sound preferences under volume control preferences grayed out

told to select sound card under mixer track, but sound card doesn't appear

attempted to edit implicit authorizations to yes yes yes, but "modify" grayed out

mplayer plays song, but no sound, and silence throughout operating system, including boot up

---

### Post by keplerspeed on 2009-09-21
A lot of people do have trouble setting up sound. At times it can be as simple as choosing PCM (pulse mode modulation). To start:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting)

OR:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449)

Firstly lets see what card you have by entering this to the terminal:
```

aplay -l

```

---

### Post by allen blake on 2009-09-21
Good morning! (here)  Thank you for the response.  I have booted the machine (on it now...I intended to use the terminal to copy and past the output).  The root terminal I first loaded had no copy and paste function that I could figure out, so I loaded the Gnome Terminal, which does, and I found out something very interesting that I was clued into when I executed "aplay -l" at bootup.

With Gnome Terminal, this is the output:

-----

aplay: device_list:217: no soundcards found...

-----

With the Root Terminal, this is the output:

-----

**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: AudioPCI [Ensoniq AudioPCI], device 0: ES1371/1 [ES1371 DAC2/ADC]
    Subdevices: 1/1
    Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
 card 0: AudioPCI [Ensoniq AudioPCI], device 1: ES1371/2 [ES1371 DAC1/ADC]
    Subdevices: 1/1
    Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

-----

I could not copy and paste with the Root Terminal, so I hand copied it.  I believe it is error free.  Another interesting note.  When I booted the system, before "startx" I ran "aplay -l" and I got some weird output about "lacking privileges" and "limited capabilities".

These two terminals did not give me that output.  I assumed I would get the same thing when I booted GUI, and ran terminal, but did not get the same output from either terminal.  I am going to shut down back to command prompt, and attempt to recreate that output.

I guess I was spoiled by the first Linux box I built, wrt sound.  It worked just fine right off the bat.  However, my video resolution has never worked properly, and I posted here and no one ever figured it out, either.  It won't allow me to LOWER my resolution.  Refresh rate goes haywire if you attempt to do so, so it is stuck at a higher resolution, only one resolution.

But, I never had any sound issues.

Anyway, will reply with attempt after shutdown to command prompt.

Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by allen blake on 2009-09-21
Yeah...when I shut down to command prompt...I get different output

-----
I: caps.c: Limited capabilities successfully to CAPS_SYS_NICE.
I: caps.c: Dropping root privileges.
I: caps.c: Limited capabilities successfully to CPAS_SYS_NICE.

Everything else is the same except for one more change...

Subdevices are listed as 0/1,  1/1 now...

Instead of what I wrote earlier as 1/1, 1/1

---

### Post by kambrik on 2009-09-21
Check this out - [http://www.compuhowto.com/linux/ubuntu/ubuntu-no-sound/]("http://www.compuhowto.com/linux/ubuntu/ubuntu-no-sound/")

---

### Post by allen blake on 2009-09-21
A couple of other notes...

Mplayer has crashed a couple times.  It just hung up right now, when I attempted, but I got no error/detail report (none offered).  One was offered previously, and I didn't write it down, as I suspected that I would be able to fix it after applying many modifications/suggestions found online...

Sound is not muted (for the record)
Sliders are up (for the record)

---

### Post by allen blake on 2009-09-21
From first page of suggestions:



Open a terminal window, and type


 "find /lib/modules/`uname -r` | grep snd".


 You should see a whole list of items come up. If you don't, it means that the upgrade process missed installing the kernel modules for sound. To fix this, type this at the command line: 
[FONT=monospace]
[/FONT]
[FONT=monospace][/FONT]For Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope 
sudo aptitude install linux-restricted-modules-`uname -r` linux-generic

=====

I did this exactly without double quotes and received "no such file
or directory"

I wasn't sure if "uname" meant I was supposed to type int he user
name in single quotes, so I did, and I got "unknown predicate -r",
when using a space...

Or,

"no such file or directory" when leaving out the space.

So, I went ahead and did the install command, it went about its
business (in the middle forcing me to choose British English WTF)
and then bringing me back to command prompt, where I did "find"
again, and still get "no such file or directory", so I must be
doing something wrong?  What about that "|"?  It shows up as an
exaggerated ":" on that machine.  That should not matter?  Right?

---

### Post by allen blake on 2009-09-21
Sound Trouble Shooting told me to "lspci -v | less", and here is the output - I don't see my soundcard here?  Am I missing it?  It shows up in some locations, not others?

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 440BX/ZX/DX - 82443BX/ZX/DX Host bridge (rev 03)
        Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 64
        Memory at e4000000 (32-bit, prefetchable) [size=64M]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: agpgart-intel
        Kernel modules: intel-agp

00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 440BX/ZX/DX - 82443BX/ZX/DX AGP bridge (rev 03)
        Flags: bus master, 66MHz, medium devsel, latency 64
        Bus: primary=00, secondary=01, subordinate=01, sec-latency=64
        I/O behind bridge: 0000d000-0000dfff
        Memory behind bridge: d4000000-e3ffffff
        Prefetchable memory behind bridge: e8000000-ebffffff
        Kernel modules: shpchp

00:07.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 ISA (rev 02)
        Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 0

00:07.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 IDE (rev 01) (prog-if 80 [Master])
        Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 64
        [virtual] Memory at 000001f0 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [disabled] [size=8]
        [virtual] Memory at 000003f0 (type 3, non-prefetchable) [disabled] [size=1]
        [virtual] Memory at 00000170 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [disabled] [size=8]
        [virtual] Memory at 00000370 (type 3, non-prefetchable) [disabled] [size=1]
        I/O ports at f000 [size=16]
        Kernel driver in use: ata_piix

00:07.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 USB (rev 01)

---

### Post by allen blake on 2009-09-21
From Trouble Shooting Sound:


=====



Open a terminal window, and type "find /lib/modules/`uname -r` | grep snd". You should see a whole list of items come up. If you don't, it means that the upgrade process missed installing the kernel modules for sound. To fix this, type this at the command line: 

sudo aptitude install linux-ubuntu-modules-`uname -r` linux-genericFor Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope 
sudo aptitude install linux-restricted-modules-`uname -r` linux-generic

=====

I accidentally the first one, too.  It proceeded to work back to command
prompt.  But, it specifically said to do the SECOND line for 9.04.  I
don't understand what the first line is for, it doesn't specify which
version to use that line for, but I did BOTH.  To what ill?

---

### Post by allen blake on 2009-09-21
Also, for the record...

Sound card is actual card, not built on motherboard.  Appears to be seated well.

And, crud...there was more to that previous file...

=====

Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 64, IRQ 10
        I/O ports at e000 [size=32]
        Kernel driver in use: uhci_hcd

00:07.3 Bridge: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 ACPI (rev 02)
        Flags: medium devsel, IRQ 9
        Kernel driver in use: piix4_smbus
        Kernel modules: i2c-piix4

00:0e.0 Multimedia audio controller: Ensoniq ES1371 [AudioPCI-97] (rev 08)
        Subsystem: Ensoniq ES1371 [AudioPCI-97]
        Flags: bus master, slow devsel, latency 64, IRQ 11
        I/O ports at e400 [size=64]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: ENS1371
        Kernel modules: snd-ens1371

00:10.0 Ethernet controller: 3Com Corporation 3c900B-TPO Etherlink XL [Cyclone] (rev 04)
        Subsystem: 3Com Corporation 3c900B-TPO Etherlink XL [Cyclone]
        Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 64, IRQ 5
        I/O ports at e800 [size=128]
        Memory at ed000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=128]
        Expansion ROM at ec000000 [disabled] [size=128K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: 3c59x
        Kernel modules: 3c59x

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: S3 Inc. 86C410 Savage 2000 (rev 02)
        Subsystem: Diamond Multimedia Systems Device 5934
        Flags: bus master, 66MHz, medium devsel, latency 248, IRQ 11
        Memory at e1000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=512K]
        Memory at e8000000 (32-bit, prefetchable) [size=64M]
        Memory at d4000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=64M]
        Memory at d8000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=64M]
        Memory at dc000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=64M]
        [virtual] Expansion ROM at e0000000 [disabled] [size=64K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel modules: savagefb

---

### Post by allen blake on 2009-09-21
So, when I do "lspci" it *DOES* show the sound card installed...however, when I continue through the trouble shooter...and I do this...note the last lines?

Also note, I am building these systems for new Linux users ( I have been using it for only a month or two ).  A former student without a computer had found a bunch of hardware in a dumpster, and I told him that I would build him a computer.  I also intend to give the rest of them away (they are all the same, so after I get this one working, the rest *SHOULD* be a piece of cake.  SHOULD.) at the community college to people with broken home computers, (take their tradeins to do the same with them), or no home computers.

So, all of your help is very appreciated and may help Linux awareness a little bit.  Maybe a drop in the bucket, but every little bit helps, I guess.

Sent from machine in question, silently.

=====

wget -O alsa-info.sh [http://alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh](http://alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh) && bash ./alsa-info.sh
--2009-09-21 11:29:52--  [http://alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh](http://alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh)
Resolving alsa-project.org... 212.20.107.51
Connecting to alsa-project.org|212.20.107.51|:80... connected.
HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 302 Found
Location: [http://git.alsa-project.org/?p=alsa-driver.git;a=blob_plain;f=utils/alsa-info.sh](http://git.alsa-project.org/?p=alsa-driver.git;a=blob_plain;f=utils/alsa-info.sh) [following]
--2009-09-21 11:29:53--  [http://git.alsa-project.org/?p=alsa-driver.git;a=blob_plain;f=utils/alsa-info.sh](http://git.alsa-project.org/?p=alsa-driver.git;a=blob_plain;f=utils/alsa-info.sh)
Resolving git.alsa-project.org... 212.20.107.51
Reusing existing connection to alsa-project.org:80.
HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 200 OK
Length: unspecified [text/plain]
Saving to: `alsa-info.sh'

    [   <=>                                 ] 26,584      36.4K/s   in 0.7s    

2009-09-21 11:29:54 (36.4 KB/s) - `alsa-info.sh' saved [26584]

ALSA Information Script v 0.4.58
--------------------------------

This script visits the following commands/files to collect diagnostic
information about your ALSA installation and sound related hardware.

  dmesg
  lspci
  lsmod
  aplay
  amixer
  alsactl
  /proc/asound/
  /sys/class/sound/
  ~/.asoundrc (etc.)

See './alsa-info.sh --help' for command line options.

/sbin/alsactl: save_state:1513: [COLOR=RoyalBlue]No soundcards found...[/COLOR]
cat: /tmp/alsa-info.eIPkKalLJY/alsactl.tmp: [COLOR=RoyalBlue]No such file or directory[/COLOR]

---

### Post by allen blake on 2009-09-22
Moderator:

Could you please delete this thread, as I am going to repost in a more succinct manner.

Thank you.

---

