---
title: "9.10 problems with Intel Grahic Chipset on Upgrade"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nigel_gordon on 2009-11-02
I had 9.4 running on my laptop, although the screen res was crap.  Upgraded to 9.10 and get a totally black screen on boot up.  Also get a black screen if I try to run the LiveCD.  Have installed it on a Acer Extensa 5635Z.  A friend has the same problem with his laptop, which is a different make but has the same Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 4500M.  Have seen a couple of posts with the same or similar problem that have the same chipset. So I suspect there is a problem with this chipset.  None of the solutions I have seen suggested have worked, indeed most have been impossible to try, as I can't even get to a text terminal.

Please does anybody have a solution for this or do I have to drop linux altogether.

Please help if you can, I don't want to be deprived of a decent sytem.

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-11-02
you might try this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308317](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308317)

.

---

### Post by nigel_gordon on 2009-11-04
> **LewRockwell said:**
> you might try this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308317](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308317)

.
Have already tried all of this and none of it works.  The CD I was installing from installs fine on systems without the Intel GMA 4500M chipset, so I think it is a problem with this the drivers for this chipset.

Unfortunately cannot install into a seperate partition.  Fortunately I had backed up everything to start with, so nothing is lost.

---

### Post by Dizzen2 on 2009-11-13
Hi there,
 
Same problem for me : I've been trying to install Ubuntu (8.04 & 9.10) on my new laptop : a brand new Packard Bell Easynote LJ65 : just impossible to have a decent working system : with 9.10 the screen turns completely black (attached external ordinary monitor however works) and with the Hardy Heron (8.04) version, the max. resolution of the screen is drawn back to 800 x 600 : no possibiliy what so ever to change the resolution (even not widescreen) ! 
So I started browsing the ubuntu fora : seems like there might be a problem with the chipset of the laptop : chipset is Mobile Intel 4 Series Express Chipset Family. When trying to reconfigure X, the system comes up with a message that this chipset is not supported. 
 
Anyone else any clue ?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-11-13
Well, I replied to another post a day or 2 ago about a different Intel graphics chip, but perhaps it will work for you as well.  It can't hurt to try, as it is only a switch at boot for testing and nothing permanent until it works and menu.lst is updated:

 Wink  Re: Not getting GUI with ubuntu 9.10
Okay, I did some web searching and found something in Steve Rosenburgs' (?sp) tech log about getting the 82830 to work in X in 9.10. Apparently it's a kernel setting default causing the problem, and a work around is to try this:

As soon as you get the grub screen at boot (yours may have a very short countdown before it proceeds in to boot) press ESC *immediately*. Use the arrow key to scroll down to the boot line - should look similar to this:

Ubuntu 9.10, kernel 2.6.31-14-generic

- or maybe it says -

kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=dc3cf399-6b13-4704-80c5-0e02fe6cd364 ro quiet splash


I haven't done any editing at boot for a long time and didn't try this myself so not sure exactly how it looks.


press the "e" key to edit the line - you should see something like the following:

kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=dc3cf399-6b13-4704-80c5-0e02fe6cd364 ro quiet splash

using the arrow keys, go to the end of the line and add:

i915.modeset=0 <press enter>

so that the kernel line now looks similar to:

kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=dc3cf399-6b13-4704-80c5-0e02fe6cd364 ro quiet splash i915.modeset=0


I *think* (not positive) that you then press the "b" key to boot.

If you get the GUI screen, then we know what we need to do to make it permanent.

Please try that and post back any questions and the results.

Dave
__________________
................................................
take my beans - please, they don't mean anything
....And Then I Heard This Blood-Curdling "QUACK!!"

---

### Post by leviathan28 on 2009-11-13
adding i915.modeset=0 worked for me (Acer Extensa 5635Z) without any further problems so far.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-11-13
Glad that worked for someone.  If you don't know, you can make the change permanent by:

EDIT:  It seems with the change to grub2 in 9.10, the below procedure won't work.  I installed 9.10 and the file is no longer there.  I don't know what happens if you just do the upgrade to 9.10 instead of an install.


[LIST]
[*]booting up and logging in to the GUI
[*]click applications/accessories/terminal
[*]type: [INDENT]

sudo cp /boot/menu.lst menu.lst_save <press enter>

sudo gedit /boot/menu.lst <press enter>

[/INDENT]
[*]use the arrow keys and navigate to the same kernel lines you edited at boot time, and make the same change.
[*]save the file and exit.
[/LIST]

Dave :)

---

### Post by detrate on 2009-11-13
Thank you so much, you've solved this for me with an ASRock G41M-GS motherboard and the Intel GMA x4500 onboard video.

However, in the terminal, I did
```
sudo cp /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/menu.lst.backup
sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```

You're awesome
:guitar:

---

### Post by gastur on 2009-11-14
> **anewguy said:**
> 

i915.modeset=0 <press enter>



Thank you very much!

Though I had no problems with X starting - but I just hate framebuffer console, and "nofb" didn't work.

---

### Post by VARGHESE ANIYAN on 2009-11-14
am using ubuntu 9.10 in my gateway mt6841 laptop. how will i activate my graphics driver?

its specifications
Chipset type Mobile Intel 945GM Express 

# Video
# Graphics Processor / Vendor Intel GMA 950
# Video Memory Dynamic Video Memory Technology 3.0
# Max Allocated RAM Size 224.0 MB 


am not able to activate appearance 'normal' or 'appearance' settings.

i'd tried few threads and while trying those some how i lost my audio driver too...

---

### Post by gwu777 on 2009-11-15
> **anewguy said:**
> Glad that worked for someone.  If you don't know, you can make the change permanent by:

EDIT:  It seems with the change to grub2 in 9.10, the below procedure won't work.  I installed 9.10 and the file is no longer there.  I don't know what happens if you just do the upgrade to 9.10 instead of an install.


[LIST]
[*]booting up and logging in to the GUI
[*]click applications/accessories/terminal
[*]type: [INDENT]

sudo cp /boot/menu.lst menu.lst_save <press enter>

sudo gedit /boot/menu.lst <press enter>


Those where the day!!! I have done a clean install of 9.10, I have an Intel 845GV, also I used to use the i810 driver, the trick above seemed to do the trick to start my pc everytime, so thank you very much for the help.

First, I would like to understand what is happening when we input this line...

Second and more importantly, how do I add it to grub 2 (or 1.97 beta4) Seriously I miss menu.lst, apparently now I have to change file in grub.d then run grub-update - I have done that, and now I have no more option other than the memory test in mny starting list, I put all the files back from backup (or so I thought), run the upgrade and it hasn't been back to normal, my grub is screwed...

I am a little bit angry and upset.. Providing I manage to fix this problem and that my laptop has a normal grub again, how do I add this extra command in grub2 so that mny pc boot up automatically with the correct driver?

P.s. I love ubuntu, and I am very upset that for the last 2 days I have been trying to make it start correctly with the 9 version, when it used to work so well with 8, I even had compiz, which I understand is now impossible with my graphic card even in the best case scenario that my laptop ever bootup again!

---

### Post by sjbespa on 2009-11-16
Based on the many good hints, here is what worked for me on a clean install - 

if you end up with a blank screen in the Live CD installer try this after the initial window comes up:

(1) hit return to set the language
(2) use the down arrow to select "Install Ubuntu" (don't hit return)
(3) hit F6 
(4) hit escape to get rid of the menu, keyboard entry will go to the end of the kernel command, so type:
i915.modeset=0
(6) *now* hit return and the machine should boot into the graphical loader
(7) proceed with the install.

Follow the instructions by anewguy for the reboot into 9.10.

To make the i915.modeset parameter permanent (with grub2) type the following in a terminal:

sudo gedit /etc/default/grub

add the i915.modeset=0 parameter to the GRUB_CMDLINE_DEFAULT line (inside the quotes). Save the file. Reboot, and everything should/might/could work! (see help.ubuntu.com/community/grub2 for details) 

Good luck!

---

### Post by Key-Tech on 2010-01-04
I had the same problem with ASUS K50IJ. When booting the screen went totally black. 
This solution fixed the problem for me so thank you guys very much for the help.

---

### Post by spirou38 on 2010-01-18
> **sjbespa said:**
> Based on the many good hints, here is what worked for me on a clean install - 
 
if you end up with a blank screen in the Live CD installer try this after the initial window comes up:
 
(1) hit return to set the language
(2) use the down arrow to select "Install Ubuntu" (don't hit return)
(3) hit F6 
(4) hit escape to get rid of the menu, keyboard entry will go to the end of the kernel command, so type:
i915.modeset=0
(6) *now* hit return and the machine should boot into the graphical loader
(7) proceed with the install.

 
[COLOR=navy]That worked fine[/COLOR] :D
 
> **sjbespa said:**
> 
Follow the instructions by anewguy for the reboot into 9.10.
 
To make the i915.modeset parameter permanent (with grub2) type the following in a terminal:
 
sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
 
add the i915.modeset=0 parameter to the GRUB_CMDLINE_DEFAULT line (inside the quotes). Save the file. Reboot, and everything should/might/could work! (see help.ubuntu.com/community/grub2 for details) 
 
Good luck!
 
[COLOR=navy]But after the installation, Ubuntu asked to reboot the system so I could neither edit the grub file nor run the "update-grub" command :([/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=navy]How have I to prooceed ?[/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=navy]Thank you for your help[/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=navy]Pascal[/COLOR]

---

### Post by JSchultheis on 2011-10-11
From Above:

Follow the instructions by anewguy for the reboot into 9.10.

To make the i915.modeset parameter permanent (with grub2) type the following in a terminal:

```
sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```

add```
i915.modeset=0
```to the line ```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="xxxx"
``` Replace whatever is inside the quotes,ex: ```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
becomes
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="i915.modeset=0"
```
Save the file. 
In terminal run:
```
sudo update-grub
```
Close terminal.
Reboot, and everything should/might/could work! 

etc...etc...(see help.ubuntu.com/community/grub2 for details)

--------------------------
Edit:

What seems to be working for my Intel 82852/855GM integrated graphics device:

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
becomes
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash i915.modeset=0"
```

and there are others that say they get results with:
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash i915.modeset=1"
```


see:
[[COLOR="Blue"][FONT="Times New Roman"][SIZE="2"]***_[CENTER]Ubuntu Blank Screen at Startup : Workaround | Ubuntu Tutorials[/CENTER]_***[/SIZE][/FONT][/COLOR]]("http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/")

---

### Post by JSchultheis on 2011-10-11
After all that I had to reinstall... maybe someday I will be a guru :(


at the the reinstall fixed my issue :)

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-10-11
Closed, necromancy. In the future please start a new thread.

---

