---
title: "11.04 : A shortcut for &quot;Select Area to Grab&quot; ?"
date: 2011-10-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-10-08
I capture so many screenshot a day in part I want to know is there a shortcut to quickly drawing and capturing an area?

I have been trying to find!


Natty

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-10-08
Not quite what you've asked for, but have a look at shutter in the repos.  It does what you want I think.

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-10-08
Shutter does have some commands.

like
```

shutter -s

```

is a command to select an area of your screen. And 
```

shutter -a

```

is a command to grab the active window.

execute 
```

shutter --help

```
to see all possibilities.

If you know what command you want, you can put it in a script. e.g.:
```

#! /bin/bash
shutter -s

```

You make it executable by right-clicking and go to file properties. And after that, you can add it to your hotkeys or shortcuts (search for it in the unity menu).

---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-10-08
Thank you.
Installed shutter and shutter -s is indeed the command to have to select area to grab. Now if only I could access this (or regular screen grab) by right clicking and putting launcher in there!

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-10-08
Can I also just check that you are aware that hitting the **Print-Screen** key will pop up a dialog to save an image of the complete screen, and in my case, **Winkey+Print-Screen** will offer an image of the current active window.

You can set this latter shortcut to be what you want in **System ->Preferences ->Keyboard Shortcuts.**

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-10-08
> **Andavane said:**
> Now if only I could access this (or regular screen grab) by right clicking and putting launcher in there!
If you want to use a launcher to initiate the default screen grab, create one for the command:
```
gnome-screenshot -a
```Obviously, either on the Unity Launcher, or on one of the Gnome Panels in classic Gnome.

Regards.

---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-10-09
> **ajgreeny said:**
> Can I also just check that you are aware that hitting the **Print-Screen** key will pop up a dialog to save an image of the complete screen, and in my case, **Winkey+Print-Screen** will offer an image of the current active window.

You can set this latter shortcut to be what you want in **System ->Preferences ->Keyboard Shortcuts.**

Yes, PrtSc does it here, but it captures the whole window and I want to select a given area.

> **Krytarik said:**
> If you want to use a launcher to initiate the default screen grab, create one for the command:
```
gnome-screenshot -a
```Obviously, either on the Unity Launcher, or on one of the Gnome Panels in classic Gnome.

Regards.
Yes! That does the job beautifully. If Only this were available as a R/click shortcut I'd be there. As it is there is quite a lot of typing for this.
The most efficient way for me thus far is to have shutter in the Unity launcher, and by R/clicking it you can just take the area of the screen you want. 

NB: Firefox has the excellent app called Pixlr Grabber, where you R/lick and do all that. Unfortunately it only works for an area you are viewing on the net

---

### Post by bab1 on 2011-10-09
> **Andavane said:**
> Yes, PrtSc does it here, but it captures the whole window and I want to select a given area.


Yes! That does the job beautifully. If Only this were available as a R/click shortcut I'd be there. As it is there is quite a lot of typing for this.
The most efficient way for me thus far is to have shutter in the Unity launcher, and by R/clicking it you can just take the area of the screen you want. 

NB: Firefox has the excellent app called Pixlr Grabber, where you R/lick and do all that. Unfortunately it only works for an area you are viewing on the net

See [**_[COLOR="Blue"]here[/COLOR]_**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1058047") to add right click functionality for any command.

---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-10-09
> **bab1 said:**
> See [**_[COLOR="Blue"]here[/COLOR]_**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1058047") to add right click functionality for any command.

Thank you bab1:
The nautilus-actions-configuration-tool is, I see a veritable saucerful of secrets which I shall move on to study.

And on that happy ending I'll move on, and mark this thread as solved.

Thank you again!

---

