---
title: "14:04 + 16:04"
date: 2016-08-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Timothy_Cota on 2016-08-14
I have 14:04 and 16:04 running side by side.  I have decided to keep 16: 04.  How do I eliminate 14:04?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-08-14
1) Load into 16.04 and run these two commands

```
sudo update-grub
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
```

I am assuming that you only have one hard drive. The printout of update-grub will tell you what partition 14.04 is on. You have now put the 16.04 Grub in charge of boot loading. So, you can delete the 14.04 partition without breaking the boot loader.

2) Use a Ubuntu live session to delete the 14.04 partition and then resize the 16.04 partition to take up the unallocated space.

3) Restart and load into 16.04. Do not be surprised that the boot menu still shows 14.04. When in 16.04 run this command again

```
sudo update-grub
```

That will remove the entry for 14.04.

Or, use OS-Uninstaller

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OS-Uninstaller](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OS-Uninstaller)

I have never used OS-Uninstaller so I do not know if it resizes the remaining partitions. I think that it does not.

Regards.

---

### Post by Timothy_Cota on 2016-08-15
I installed 16:04 from an update so I don't have a disc.  I do have a boot disc for 14:04.can I use this disc for the live session?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-08-16
> **Timothy_Cota said:**
> I installed 16:04 from an update so I don't have a disc.  I do have a boot disc for 14:04.can I use this disc for the live session?
I which case I think you don't have two OSs side by side; you probably just have the kernels from 14.04 still in the system along with the new kernels from 16.04.

What is the output of ```
ls /boot | grep vmlinuz
``` in terminal.

---

### Post by Timothy_Cota on 2016-08-19
I don't do well with terminal so I booted up my 14:04 disc, chose the option to wipe both 14:04 and 16:04 and that got rid of the partitions.  Once 14:04 was loaded I made a 16:04
boot disc and installed 16:04.  I know that is a time consuming way to do it but now I have my 16:04 boot disc if I need it.  I have been laid up for two months waiting to have my left foot reconstructed and will be laid up for another 4-5 months before I can walk again so I have plenty of time on my hands.   unktim

---

