---
title: "13.10 VLC media player"
date: 2014-01-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-02
I'm hoping someone can provide an answer to these 2 questions - if so, I can finally use Ubuntu for my video captures from VHS tapes (or other analog source).

(1) I have attached an image of what the screen looks like:  things are REALLY jagged instead of having sharp edges.  Any way to fix this?

(2) Does VLC allow capturing from a device to a file?

Thanks

---

### Post by mruiz408 on 2014-01-02
It knows ur recording WB movies. lol well I know for a fact VLC can be used to record from input sources. I would check to see if the cables are good. It looks like the resolution might be messed up in the picture. Maybe try and see if the VCR works on your TV. Check to see if your video capture card is suitable for what you're using it for.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-02
Well, it all works in Windows XP - I've just been trying to get rid of any trace of that for a long time.  This has been holding me back.

EDIT:  YES!!  Thanks!  It was the resolution - I have no clue what it was defaulting to, but I changed it to 720x480 and it works great!  Now all I need answered is how save it to disk instead of playing it.

Thanks!


EDIT-EDIT:  YES!!!!  I didn't know you could select "stream" and then specify an output file as well!

So, I'm going to run a complete test shortly to be sure the video and audio stay in sync.  If so, then I'm going to write a small how-to as I have seen other posts for this same problem, but with no answer.

---

### Post by mruiz408 on 2014-01-02
Glad you got it to work. I need to get one of those capture cards so I can backup old camcorder videos on to DVD for my parents.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-02
> **mruiz408 said:**
> Glad you got it to work. I need to get one of those capture cards so I can backup old camcorder videos on to DVD for my parents.

I thought I'd mention something of my "journey" for this - perhaps you will find something useful......

I started out with a Roxio VHS to DVD (USB capture device and software) - cost me something like $60 at Micro Center.  Quickly found it the hardwaret work and nobody knew how to get it to work in Linux.

On to 2nd purchse - a generic USB video capture device off Ebay - under the catch-all name of EasyCap.  There is documention elsewhere for these devices.  Of particular importance:  there are many devices using the name EasyCap that all look the same, but under the hood they use a different chip.  It's hit and miss as to which one you'll get if you buy one.  Worked great in Windows, but the one I bought used a chip not supported in Linux.  So, beware.

Which led to the Dazzle DVD-100, the subject of this post with VLC.  It cost me something like $35 on Ebay used, but it does work.  After these changes tonight with what you suggested, I did scan an entire movie in as mepg4 via VLC streaming.  Seems to have worked fine - video and audio stayed in sync all the way.  A few very very minor frame drops once in a while, but very usable.

Thought you might want to know that before you go and buy something to use.

I had been doing the analog scanning in Windows XP with the EasyCap, but with this working I no longer have a need for XP.  I have used it to scan in our old family movies as well (8mm film - quite a bit more involved prior to getting to the actual scan to disk), as well as many VHS movie tapes.  Also have been using Handbrake to scan and process DVD movies.  All this to get 3 media centers on Raspberry Pi's set up.  Found more tapes so now I am scanning again.

Again, I want to thank you for the idea of changing the resolution as that made things work.  I don't know if it's neccesary, but I also changed the frame rate to 29.7 (couldn't remember the exact number for framerate from a tape).  I might try it again for testing without the framerate change and see what happens.

---

