---
title: "8.4 can't detect my inlaws' wireless network..."
date: 2008-12-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by karasuman on 2008-12-23
I've been using Ubuntu for a little while now, and I've managed to get it online at my house and my parents' house using the respective wireless networks.  My inlaws just joined the 20th century (and only about 9 years too late!) and acquired a wireless router, but my laptop can't detect the signal.

My husband's laptop, which runs Windows XP, can get on just fine.  I have the WEP key, etc., but my laptop isn't detecting the connection--the status icon just says "no network connection."  However, after looking at the connection info (offline) for the connections it did have, I found one listed that claims to have been last accessed today.  I added the WEP key on that screen, but nothing happened.  I don't really understand what's going on--if the laptop never found a wireless connection, how did that one get listed?

---

### Post by Coder543 on 2008-12-23
Go to where the networks are normally listed, then click "Connect to Hidden Wireless Network..." After that, enter the name of the network. Then set the security settings and press connect. That should connect you.

---

### Post by oilchangeguy on 2008-12-23
if it's dsl you may have to manually key in the settings, such as ip address, etc. info should be in the isp's paperwork.

---

### Post by karasuman on 2008-12-23
I don't see anything that says "connect to hidden wireless network." I've tried doing system -> administration -> network / network tools and hovering on the icon on the taskbar.

---

### Post by adult swim on 2008-12-23
you need to left click the network manager icon in the taskbar for hidden network.

---

### Post by karasuman on 2008-12-23
Thanks much for your help!  Left-clicking...  Imagine that.  

^_^()

---

