---
title: "how do I read/write to my NTFS 2nd Hard Drive? ubuntu 7.04"
date: 2008-08-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by AvatarFACE on 2008-08-13
I have installed an old hard drive i had from my windows comp, and mounted it and installed the ntfs 3 thing and the Configuration tool. It says in the permissions tab that the owner is root, so i used sudo nautilus and it wont let me change the owner it gives me this message "Couldn't change the owner of "disk" because it is on a read-only disk". I can read the files already on there, but not write.

I have looked at many similar posts and they havnt solved my problem.

I am pretty useless with the "Terminal" program so try to keep it to a minimum.

here is my fstab file:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=7fe99638-d370-4f21-9ff1-64b23c9c5d0c / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=13fd00ac-6fb9-4d37-a7e5-78c166347ccf none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdb /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

---

### Post by nicedude on 2008-08-13
run this command to install pysdm

sudo apt-get install pysdm

then run it with this command

sudo pysdm

select /dev/sdb1 which should be your second drive, and select to mount it, it will handle the permission thing for you and it is GUI not command line based

Hoper this solves it for you :-)

nicedude

---

### Post by AvatarFACE on 2008-08-13
I just tried that storage device manager and re-mounted the drive, but it did not work, the drive owner is still listed as root and i do not have write permission, even though i selected my username in the options of who is the owner, the only thing it has let me do is rename it. 
Root dosen't want to let go of my drive!

these errors were in the terminal, it seems they were created by the storage device manager program:

Warning: Unknown option: rw
Warning: nouser is not suitable for user
Warning: Unknown option: async
Warning: nls=iso8859-1 can be not suitable for nls
Warning: umask=000 can be not suitable for umask
Warning: nls=iso8859-1 can be not suitable for nls
Warning: umask=000 can be not suitable for umask
Warning: uid=(my user name) can be not suitable for uid

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2008-08-13
```
sudo chmod a+x+w+r /media/*the name of your drive*
```

Are you sure you can`t write to your drive because as I understand it, windows file systems don`t do permissions and although they may say they are owned by root they are actually owned by no one.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-08-13
See if ntfsprogs is in synaptic in 7.04.

I've used it guite a bit in Hardy and the read/write support is excellent!

The documentation is good also:

[http://www.linux-ntfs.org/doku.php](http://www.linux-ntfs.org/doku.php)

---

### Post by AvatarFACE on 2008-08-13
I tried the code "nothingspecial" suggested in the terminal, it came up like this: "chmod: changing permissions of `/media/sdb1': Read-only file system"
and I still couldn't write to it.
I also tried ntfprogs from the synaptic package manager that "kansasnoob" suggested but I don't know how to run it, and i couldn't work out how from the site.

---

### Post by AvatarFACE on 2008-08-13
O.K Ive "kinda" fixed it I unmounted the drive and then ran sudo nautilus, and I still couldnt change the permissions but I created a folder in the unmounted drive and I could change the permissions then. So now I've got a drive I can't mount anymore, and have to put everything in that folder first, and I have to navigate through the file system to get at it as there is no shortcut to it on the desktop.

If anyone can fix that or knows how to do it properly, i'll still be keeping an eye on this thread.

---

### Post by AvatarFACE on 2008-08-13
I managed to mount it in sudo nautilus but now I cannot access it again and now I cannot unmount it as the icon has gone from "Disk mounter" and the "places" menu! I'm now worse off than 20 mins ago!

---

### Post by AvatarFACE on 2008-08-13
I've managed to get it back to the "kinda" fixed stage by restarting it and and can write to the folder again but it still doesn't show the drive in the "disk mounter" program, so i am unable mount/unmount it anymore.

---

