---
title: "8.04 Windows Install"
date: 2009-07-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by fslezak on 2009-07-05
Hello.

I am trying to install Ubuntu on a Dell as a dual boot. I noticed that in windows, (I was looking for the applications) and I noticed a button saying Install From Windows. WHAT DOES IT DO???

---

### Post by scrooge_74 on 2009-07-05
Well it is suppose to install from inside windows so you dont have to  reboot the PC. I haven't done any installs recently so I don't know. I still like to just boot from CD and install from there

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-07-05
> **fslezak said:**
> WHAT DOES IT DO???

It installs Ubuntu inside windows as opposed to a separate partition which a "normal" dual boot would do. You would have a boot menu from which you can select windows or Ubuntu and would be able to remove Ubuntu via add/remove programs in windows control panel.

It is a halfway house to a full dual boot and is meant to be easier for people to try out Linux without worrying about how to partition the disk ect.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2009-07-05
It sets up a dual-boot without repartitioning your drive by setting up Ubuntu as a virtual partition (a very large file) inside of Windows and then adding an entry in the Windows boot menu for Ubuntu.

More details here:
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/wubi](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/wubi)

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-07-06
> **fslezak said:**
> Hello.

I am trying to install Ubuntu on a Dell as a dual boot.

STRONGLY recommend that you boot your Dell using the LiveCD option before you install anything.  That way, you will see if Ubuntun detects the Dell hardware and installs the proper drivers.  If there are problems at that point, getting it to work post-install is likely to involve a LOT of work on your part.

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-07-06
> STRONGLY recommend that you boot your Dell using the LiveCD option before you install anything. That way, you will see if Ubuntun detects the Dell hardware and installs the proper drivers. If there are problems at that point, getting it to work post-install is likely to involve a LOT of work on your part.Depending on the problem or problems, it may or may not involve a lot of work.

---

