---
title: "10.04 64-bit Chromium Flash Player"
date: 2010-08-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Specs4 on 2010-08-18
I just recently switched from 32 to 64 bit Ubuntu, and I'm having a problem with Flash Player on Chromium. Whenever using Flash Player (example: youtube videos)it's just a gray box but I can still hear sound, just the display is gray.
Could anyone help me out with this? I've read many ways on how to install flash on chromium, but it's still just gray.
Thanks :D

Ubuntu 10.04 Desktop 64-bit

---

### Post by Zorgoth on 2010-08-18
Is it just chromium that has this problem?

I doubt that this has to do with your current problem, but anyone using 64-bit flash probably wants to do this anyway:

As root, open /usr/lib/nspluginwrapper/i386/linux/npviewer in the editor of your choice.

Add this so that it is the second to last line of the file:

export GDK_NATIVE_WINDOWS=1

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-08-19
See third item on [this list]("http://firefox-tutorials.blogspot.com/2010/06/flash-issues-solutions.html").

---

### Post by jonnywombat on 2010-08-19
I installed ubuntu tweak on my 64bit machine, and added the 64 bit flash ppa to my sources list. The flash plugin from there works for me without issue.

hth

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-08-19
> **jonnywombat said:**
> I installed ubuntu tweak on my 64bit machine, and added the 64 bit flash ppa to my sources list. The flash plugin from there works for me without issue.

hth

Except that the 64bit version is no longer supported and has a critical vulnerability.

---

### Post by jonnywombat on 2010-08-19
thanks for that lovinglinux.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-08-19
> **jonnywombat said:**
> thanks for that lovinglinux.

No problem. Install the latest 32bit from the repositories. It should work fine. If you experience issues, see [http://firefox-tutorials.blogspot.com/2010/06/flash-issues-solutions.html](http://firefox-tutorials.blogspot.com/2010/06/flash-issues-solutions.html)

---

