---
title: "12.04 won't install"
date: 2012-05-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Autodave on 2012-05-07
I can run 12.04 from either a CD or USB stick and everything runs fine.  But, when I go to install, it boots out shortly after I enter my name and password choices.  It seems to start copying files, but then black screen with a couple lines of text (which were different each time) appears.  Then, it stops completely.  I even tried downloading it again and tried USB stick again with same results.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-05-07
Please give a complete hardware description.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2012-05-07
> **mörgæs said:**
> Please give a complete hardware description.


32 bit, one gig RAM, 2.8 MHZ Pentium 4, unknown video running 1440 x 760 at full color.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-05-08
That sounds all right. Have you tried the alternate ISO?

There is more advice in the link in my signature.

---

### Post by Senior_Buckethead on 2012-05-08
Ive tried with the regular desktop distribution on my Acer machine and get much the same kind of proble, only so far and then freezes up. I agree, perhaps try the alternate distribution, you might have more than that.

[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/alternative-downloads](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/alternative-downloads)

There might be an issue with your video card or onboard video thats fouling everything up.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2012-05-08
> **mörgæs said:**
> That sounds all right. Have you tried the alternate ISO?

There is more advice in the link in my signature.


Will try that and let you know if it works.  Thanks to all of you who replied.

---

