---
title: "12.04 install on toshiba, help install internet driver"
date: 2013-08-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by marcretired on 2013-08-07
hello everybody,
my old ppc mac mini is just about to old for the internet, so instead of an $1800 mac book, I got a $380 toshiba with win8. (you want the win8 rant, email me).
so I downloaded 12.04tls, made a dvd, installed it. now I have a toshiba satelite C850-S513, w/ ubuntu-- and I can't get online(wire or wi-fi).
(note to the marketing dept.--- if your serious about selling some product, forget the 1 day download from the UK and the $16 donation thingy, burn a disk(put all! the drivers on it), sell it at Walmart for $21.95. huh, this 2013? )
here's the problem-- after reading around I went to Realtek and downloaded what might be the correct driver package? (8.036.0, r8168-8.036.00tar.bz2). using my wifes new mac mini and dvd burner, I got all of that burnt, and loaded onto the toshiba.  it showed the dvd-r logo and also showed the file.  after I came back from lunch I hit the power key to restart the thing, the desk top flashed and now I'm looking at a blue screen and nothing works.  ok, I held the power key down and it finally shut off again.  do I need to learn how to write code to be an Ubuntu operator?  where should I ask how to install the driver?

---

### Post by Jonathan Precise on 2013-08-07
Hi marcretired. Welcome to the forums!
The next time you want to restart, please don't do a hard reset (holding the power button for too long). This can lead to hard drive corruption (your hard drive not working properly), or data loss. Think twice before doing so!!

[HR][/HR]
Just helpful advice.

Jonathan

P.S. Try booting into the DVD again.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-08-07
Did you install in UEFI mode?

Some other Toshiba, different models may have some similar configurations:
 Toshiba laptop C850 Windows 7 with upgrade to 8 version -  sudodus
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1769482&p=12606025#post12606025](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1769482&p=12606025#post12606025)
 [SOLVED] Can't install Windows 8 & Ubuntu in Toshiba Portege Z930 with explanation how by OP feb 2013
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2114290](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2114290)

      
 Toshiba Satellite P50 model number: P50-A-01E Haswell processor
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2163854](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2163854)
Turned NIC (Integrated Network Interface Controller) off and then booted off of USB. Was NOT an issue with any Linux distro just a quirk of the laptop.
 Am now running 13.10 daily and everything works. Also had to stick with EFI boot ON, Secure Boot disabled. Wouldn't boot off of any media or HDD when mode set to CSM.

---

