---
title: "Ubuntu/Windows booting problems"
date: 2018-10-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by weirdygeekpsych on 2018-10-26
Hey all, 

I installed Ubuntu & Windows in same hard drive with different partition.

I have lot of issues with that.


[LIST=1]
[*]My computer is booting slow on both the OS (ubuntu start more services on startup, how can I stop which is unnecessary? I am not sure that Services are the main problem for slow boot) 
[*]After installing windows i see lot of boot entries in GRUB2 (Edited grub.cfg, whenever i update grub, the entries come again) 
[*]Windows took 5 or 8 sec to get into login screen when it has lesser RAM, now it takes more than a minute even now the RAM sized is Tripled. 
[/LIST]

**NOTE:** There are lot of files in the downloads, videos, music folders in ubuntu and windows have some files too in downloads.
Can that be the problem for the slow boot, I doubt?

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2018-10-27
Your video files aren't used during boot, so they can't affect it.

How slow is too slow? And can you tell a bit more about your hardware? In particular the hard drive is important. SSDs are much faster than spinning hard drives.

If you have Windows 8 or later, you probably disabled Windows' fast startup feature. With fast startup enabled, Linux can't see Windows which would be a big problem for dual booting. That makes Windows boot slower. How slow, I don't know. I never used Windows 8 or 10.

grub.cfg is automatically generated by the update-grub script. If you want to change things in grub.cfg, do it indirectly by changing /etc/default/grub, which contains the settings used by the script.

---

### Post by weirdygeekpsych on 2018-11-01
I have made the changes you said, still its being time taken

I edited my ubuntu boot time on/ time off to 10 sec. now its working better.

But this windows taking hell lot of time? 

I wonder any options to make it better for windows?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2018-11-03
> **jegan2 said:**
> But this windows taking hell lot of time? 

I wonder any options to make it better for windows?

You were already told about Fast Startup for Windows -- as that is a new form of hybrid sleep/hibernation that Win10 enables by default.

But ... the tradeoff is that it forces the Windows filesystem to remain MOUNTED when Windows is not running, thus preventing Linux from mounting those partitions and thus being able to access the files and folders.

You can't have it both ways.

---

