---
title: "12.10 burned to dvd"
date: 2013-03-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rchubcitywihwy1480 on 2013-03-17
i downloaded the 12.10 32 bit ubuntu and burned it to  dvd-r 8x at 4 speed, i did not do the checksum  i just verified it with ImgBurn

Do i need do this?

When i boot, i am going to run it from Dvd not install it, so how do i do that?

on a toshiba c655 laptop with win 7 dual core

tks

---

### Post by cortman on 2013-03-17
Checking md5sum is always a good idea, but it isn't a life-or-death issue- if it installs and runs fine, it probably is ok. Unless you're worried that someone might have compromised the ISO and presented a security risk, it should be fine.
When you boot from the DVD the first screen you get will ask if you want to install or "try" Ubuntu- try = run from DVD.
Good luck!

---

### Post by MoebusNet on 2013-03-18
This documentation also applies to Live-DVD's:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCD)

Nobody has updated the terminology yet, is all.

---

### Post by rchubcitywihwy1480 on 2013-03-18
tks  i have seen those help pages just thought maybe there was some added thoughts
tks

---

### Post by rich4421972 on 2013-03-18
As I understand it, the graphical DVD-burning utility (Brasero, xfburn or K3B, for example) perform an action similar to using an md5 to verify that the image burnt to the disc is the same one indicated on the header of the ISO itself. This also goes for veryfing the image after it is downloaded. It is simply a listing of what is on the image itself.

If you are using the command line to burn your image (i.e. using dd), you are encouraged to use the md5's for manually verifying the  DVD both before and after the burn. Kind of an "either/or" situation. Many of ubuntu's graphical applications are just automated and attractive ways of doing the same operation that takes place in a terminal. My opinion: no need if you verify the disk through K3B, Brasero or xfburn.

---

