---
title: "11.10 Boot problem"
date: 2012-03-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by boblettoj99 on 2012-03-07
Hello, 

I just ran into this error today. I turn on my laptop, grub loads up fine, however trying to run any of the ubuntu versions results in painstakingly slow boot (about 10 mins) and then a further 10 mins after login.

Once I'm logged in window decorations have defaulted back to some weird old version, the unity button no longer does anything when clicked, all tray icons have disappeared etc. It looks bad.

I have no idea what has caused this. Starting recovery mode just results in a black screen for as long as I could be bothered to wait.

I'm going to run memtest after posting this so i'll let you know how that goes...

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-03-07
if memtest returns no problem , then be patient and login one more time to your system . open terminal and run those commands one by one 
```
sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get autoclean
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get upgrade
``` sometimes a simple update of system solves lots of problems.

If not then search and repair broken packages with command
```
sudo apt-get -f install
```It is wise to install synaptic (if you don't have it) 
```
sudo apt-get install synaptic
``` open it and search also for broken packages.

---

### Post by boblettoj99 on 2012-03-07
Hi thanks for the help, I tried rebooting and after about 10 mins it came up with something about inodes and I chose fix manually. It flashed a load of stuff for a while, I wasn't really paying attention, and then said reboot ubuntu. I did that, but the error persists.

Inodes are something to do with hard drive right?

I just put the ubuntu livecd in and am trying to back up before I mess up anything more. However I can't access any of my partitions as I don't own them.

How can I get permissions to access this drive?

---

### Post by boblettoj99 on 2012-03-07
The exact message is:

"Unable to mount location

Not Authorized: Remote Exception Invoking org.freedesktop.PolicyKit1.Authority.CheckAuthorization() on /org/freedesktop/PolicyKit1/Authority at name org.freedesktop.PolicyKit1: org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.Spawn.ExecFailed: Cannot launch daemon, file not found or permissions invalid"

It says this for every partition including windows XP which still works ok.

---

### Post by boblettoj99 on 2012-03-07
> **boblettoj99 said:**
> The exact message is:

"Unable to mount location

Not Authorized: Remote Exception Invoking org.freedesktop.PolicyKit1.Authority.CheckAuthorization() on /org/freedesktop/PolicyKit1/Authority at name org.freedesktop.PolicyKit1: org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.Spawn.ExecFailed: Cannot launch daemon, file not found or permissions invalid"

It says this for every partition including windows XP which still works ok.

To anyone who wants to know:

Got access by doing...
In terminal on live cd: 
"sudo gedit /etc/fstab"

Add line: "/dev/sda5 /media/mydrive auto defaults 0 0"
where 'sda5' is the name of your drive (do "sudo blkid" to find yours), and 'mydrive' can be anything.

then back in terminal: 
"sudo mkdir /media/mydrive"
"sudo mount /media/mydrive"

Woop. Just going to reinstall ubuntu now, can't be arsed to deal with whatever has gone wrong.

Hope the hard disk stays living...at least until dissertation is done...:(

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-03-07
I think its a good idea to check you disk. Boot from liveCD --> open disk utility --> go to you hard disk --> click smart data to run self-tests. If you see anything red , then backup everything . Pay attention to the (red) message.

---

