---
title: "8.10 problem"
date: 2009-01-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lizandeen on 2009-01-08
I decided to upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10 using the update manager and all seemed to go well till the restart.Basically what happens is it turns on, and as usual get the 1st screen with "starting up" in the top left corner followed by the first ubuntu screen. Then (after the "reading files needed to boot" screen and ,briefly, an orange screen with a clock timer) I get, instead of the login page, a black page with a rectangle made up of smaller rectangles (also with an error/warning sign in the top left and what I assume is an incomplete enter sign in the bottom right of this rectangle).I tried to login in never the less but after a few tries all I**** get is a big white square with "The display server has been shut down about 6 times in the last 90 seconds. It is likely that something bad is going on. Waiting for 2 minutes before trying again on display :O " written in it!If I wait I'm returned to the page where "reading files needed to boot" ended and am presented also with a flashing cursor as if I'm supposed to type a manual command here.Any ideas , this is driving me mad!!!I tried "startx" and got to the desktop but it doesn't recognize the font so I cannot read the (quite obvious) error message, is there a way to change the font at the command line (using GRUB/GNOME as I have no access to the terminal?)
I just tried using the LiveCD and can access all my files but there are far to many to transfer to an old version of 8.04 (which appears at the boot up menu) using cd/dvd's,(also some refuse to copy as I don't have the right "permissions"). Also I have duel boot ubuntu/windows so a brand new install is more trouble than losing my files. If I learn anything from all this, it is to backup,backup and backup again!

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2009-01-08
It is advised to use a descriptive topic title, that means a topic title that gives some clue about the content in the thread itself...

A generic topic title like "noob here" or "need help" does not help at all. As you may have noticed, just about everyone posting in here has some kind of a problem or issue or question ;)

And it is also adviced to use seperate threads for unrelated problems so that you can mark each one individually as solved.

Or in short terms: Help others to help you ;)

Also, when you are asked to post output from (config) files or from a command, use [noparse]```

```[/noparse] brackets around (each) output. That makes it also easier to read.

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-01-08
Try recovery mode, that is, type escape as soon as you see the Grub prompt and select the second boot option. When the menu comes up try the fix X option.

---

