---
title: "10.04 installation in Averatec 32000 laptop locks up at 22%"
date: 2010-08-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by JPR AuCoin on 2010-08-23
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]*[SIZE=3]O:)[/SIZE]*[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]*[SIZE=3]Averatec 3200 Laptop [/SIZE]*[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]*[SIZE=3]AMD Athlon Mobile XP-M (LV) 2000 [/SIZE]*[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]*[SIZE=3]1525.923 mhz [/SIZE]*[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]*[SIZE=3]512kb memory [/SIZE]*[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]*[SIZE=3]40gig hard drive[/SIZE]*[/FONT][/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]*[SIZE=3]Hello there, been at it for a while now, trying to install a Linux OS.[/SIZE]*[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]*[SIZE=3]First Fedora, then Debian and now Ubuntu…. Learning as I go.[/SIZE]*[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]*[SIZE=3]With Ubuntu which from what I have seen is the most user friendly and welcoming community, especially for Absolute Beginner like me![/SIZE]*[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]*[SIZE=3]I have checked summed and burned 3 times the 10.04 version at slow speed onto a DVD the CD version and all goes well till it get to the actual installation with the bar showing the progress. It has gotten as far as 26% before locking up. I am using the entire 40gigs for the install. I am reading as much as possible and starting to understand the command line scripts (emphasis on the starting). I have looked all over the place and can’t seem to find anything in regards to this specific problem. Forums, manuels, faqs, ect… could someone point me in the right direction? Thank you for any assistance you can offer!![/SIZE]*[/FONT][/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]*[SIZE=3]Thank you to who put the below quote in the forums….[/SIZE]*[/FONT][/COLOR]
 
 
[SIZE=3]**[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]*A person with ubuntu is open and available to others, affirming of others, does not feel threatened that others are able and good, for he or she has a proper self-assurance that comes from knowing that he or she belongs in a greater whole and is diminished when others are humiliated or diminished, when others are tortured or oppressed.*[/FONT][/COLOR]****[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana] ~ *[[COLOR=#444444]Archbishop Desmond Tutu[/COLOR]]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Desmond_Tutu"), 1999*[/FONT][/COLOR]**[/SIZE]

---

### Post by JPR AuCoin on 2010-08-23
I have been downloading the netbook version, should I go for the desktop. I am working with a second computer which I hope to switch over to Ubuntu also. Another thought should I try a 9.04 version? I am downloading those options also

---

### Post by JPR AuCoin on 2010-08-23
Thank you I'll try that right away!

---

### Post by JPR AuCoin on 2010-08-24
still getting nowhere. One thing, I think my laptop was overheating and put a fan blowing air at it. still locked up. currently downloading SUSE, supposedly a lighter install for older computers......

---

### Post by JPR AuCoin on 2010-08-25
Thank you again, I am starting to think that my laptop may be kaput. I will try your suggestion. I have been getting error messages galor. I imagined that starting with a fresh install and a formated hard drive this would be not so much of a problem.... I get the feeling I am missing something fundamental...

---

### Post by theDaveTheRave on 2010-08-25
Just a word about my problems with a laptop...

I had (well still have it actually!) an old Dell laptop, and whatever I try I can't get the thing to install any OS?

very strange.

I tried an old version of Ubuntu which I had lying around and still no joy.

Eventually I gave it up, and I realised that I may have a batter issue. It seemed to discharge more rapidly than it charged up, so I would get about half way into an installation and then it would all stop very suddently?

However I have a very very old athlon pc that I run a lucid server system on (using an lx11de gui desktop - which is currently my favourite). and it seems to run ok.

Again note however that the power supply unit died on this some years ago, so I needed to get a new one, and I had similar sort of 'crashing for no reason' problems that you are experiencing.

Power failure issues are horrid to troubleshoot, as often you don't have a friend with the same laptop that you can swap a battery over with.

Maybe you could try a 'command line' install of linux, then add on a GUI after that, assuming that a CLI only is much quicker to install that is?

David

---

### Post by JPR AuCoin on 2010-08-25
The most prevalent error message is for firmware: b43/ucode5.fw
I am having a problem with my network connection. I downloaded a firmware package and put it on a flash drive under "firmware" , and now it seems that my computer is not reading the flash drives either.

---

### Post by ilmn on 2010-11-06
I had a difficult time installing Ubuntu on my Averatec 3250 laptop.  The only way that I was able to install 10.04 was by first installing 7.1 and then upgrading to 8.0.4 and then upgrading to 10.04.  If I tried the install directly from 8.04 or 10.04 the install hangs.  I am a complete newcomer to Ubuntu and would like to figure out a way to do a clean install.  Can someone please tell me why the installation works when installing 7.1 first and then upgrading but when I try any other installation it fails?  I see references to unichrome being the culprit.  Is it possible to modify a 10.04 or newer install disk to install with my hardware setup?

---

