---
title: "8.04 hi how do i down load on to a meroty stick"
date: 2009-02-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by blake7 on 2009-02-24
also could yuou help me with how to load the desktop on to my laptop from the meory stick

to cut a long story short i deleted my destop sreen and have tryed and failed to load from live cd. but i have been told it can work from stick. does this make any sence.

thank you for your time 


:)

---

### Post by llamabr on 2009-02-24
You just want the background image?

---

### Post by blake7 on 2009-02-24
yea but i have tryed everthing and this is the las tthing to do

unless you can think of somthing

---

### Post by blake7 on 2009-02-24
can any one help me??
am i in the right place??????

---

### Post by llamabr on 2009-02-24
By searching the archives (try the search button at the top right):

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=244297](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=244297)

---

### Post by blake7 on 2009-02-24
that does not help what it even mean

what about the ider of loading down on to my reader and copying fijles from that on to laptop..

---

### Post by blake7 on 2009-02-24
hjow do i load ubumtu on to memory stick???

---

### Post by joey-elijah on 2009-02-24
You want to install Ubuntu onto a Memory stick?

---

### Post by laithbsoul on 2009-02-24
are you asking how do you load ubuntu on a usb flash drive and then load it up on a computer like a live cd?

---

### Post by jespdj on 2009-02-24
Can you please explain more clearly what exactly you want to do? It's hard to understand what you want to do with the way you are writing your posts.

You can use [UNetbootin](http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/) to put Ubuntu on an USB stick.

---

### Post by bobbob1016 on 2009-02-24
1st) Do not bump so often.  Most of the people here are volunteers, and can't get to EVERY post every second.

2nd) [http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/](http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/) That will let you boot Ubuntu off of a Flash Drive.

---

### Post by blake7 on 2009-02-25
i deleted my desttop when removing gimp. i tryed to enstall a new desktop but all the ways i have tryed have not worked, from cd, i dont have wi fi.
so i was hopeing to do thjis from a stick.
sp it loads up but no screen so i cant do anthing, its just a ternamal like thjing

does that make it any clearer,, what other information would you like????

cheeers

---

