---
title: "10.10 Install on old Ubuntu"
date: 2011-03-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Green_Grenade on 2011-03-18
Im trying to install the New 10.10 Ubuntu on my old Toshiba Satellite laptop...
Major problem is, i cant get to the BIOS mode.. and I have to use a second monitor to actually see whats going on... So yes.. the Laptop monitor is just.. Black. its does nothing... when i reboot it doesnt blip any text or anything just a blank screen. BUT the second monitor has a "Boot from..." text flash up on it. I cant figure out how to get into the BIOS tho. Tried f1, f2, f10, f12 and del..

When Ubuntu boots up.. it asks me to log in and all that normal stuff so.. I have the newly burnt Ubuntu10.10 Cd in.. and yes it is burnt correctly. Um... dnt know what else to add.. Um... this comp only has Ubuntu on it.. uh... I think that last thing I was trying to do on it was.. i was goofing around trying to make it look like a Mac desktop.. and yea.. OOO! it doesnt have any internet access.. ok.. I think thats everything.. if you could help me out.. that would be AWESOME!!!

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-03-18
and the problem is? accessing BIOS , right? for that you will need to Google your model and get the manual for it or search for it on toschiba's site or ask their tech support.
 
I had a similar probelm iwth my COmpaq, but i ofund a manual for it online where it was also information how to access BIOS. you might also find some BIOS upgrade there.

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-03-18
Have you tried hitting the "esc" escape button while booting?

---

