---
title: "10.04 boot failure most times"
date: 2010-10-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by luckylucky on 2010-10-04
This one is mystifying me.  Even googling finds no solutions.  I know it must not be just me since a friend also experiences this.

When booting up most attempts fail.  It will at some point go back to just-powered-on state (showing the first screen of the hardware saying push F12 F9 F2 for various options).  It gets to grub giving me the options of whichever kernel I like, and safe start options.  Sometimes I'd choose a lower/older kernel, crossing my fingers.

Bottom line is that it's a craps-shoot.  Sometimes it'll work to get into the OS, more than half of the time not (just auto reboots).  My strategy is to simply turn on the computer, go away for a while, let it go through it's nonsense, and eventually it does something right to boot properly.

So what the heck is it that is making this boot so unstable?  Works sometimes, most often not, but whether it works or not is simply a spontaneous thing (I do nothing different).

Solutions?  Others experiencing this?

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-10-04
You should try running the memory test with the livecd.

---

### Post by emoguitarist06 on 2010-10-04
> **psusi said:**
> You should try running the memory test with the livecd.

Good advice

and also try booting into a live cd

are you dualbooting with any other OS? if so do those boot up?

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-10-04
When it succsefully boots have you checked the boot logs? might shed some light

```

cd /var/log

cat boot.log
cat kernel.log

```

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2010-10-04
1- Double check your BIOS - check the boot sequence- just in csae.
2- Is this a single boot or dual boot?
3- Sometimes, we forget a USB-Drive attached and reboot or there might be a CD/DVD inside. Just in case, double check that. 
4- does your PC/laptop reboot from itself or it happens whenever you reboot?

Thank you!

---

