---
title: "10.10 and floppy problems udisks?"
date: 2011-02-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by drillerccg on 2011-02-23
Trying to install 10.10 on an old PC without a functioning CD drive. It has USB but no USB boot. Need to update the BIOS so I can get USB boot.

I do have an Ubuntu machine with a floppy drive so I can make a disc for the other computer. The floppy drive shows up in the places menu and in the computer settings. When I click it though it fails to mount. Also in the dios utility it shows up but when I try to format the disc, errors pop up. 

Read somewhere that I have to use "force version"  to install an old version of udisks but in synaptic I only get one version and the force version is grayed out. I'm thinking that I have to download it from a repository but can't seem to do it in 10.10. Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by plucky on 2011-02-23
> Read somewhere that I have to use "force version" to install an old version of udisks but in synaptic I only get one version and the force version is grayed out. I'm thinking that I have to download it from a repository but can't seem to do it in 10.10. Any help would be appreciated.


That was in Lucid and is no longer applicable in later versions.

Open a terminal and ```
udisks --mount /dev/fd0
``` will mount your floppy and an icon will appear on the desktop provided you have the line ```
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
``` in your /etc/fstab file.

Good Luck

---

### Post by drillerccg on 2011-02-23
> **plucky said:**
> That was in Lucid and is no longer applicable in later versions.

Open a terminal and ```
udisks --mount /dev/fd0
``` will mount your floppy and an icon will appear on the desktop provided you have the line ```
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
``` in your /etc/fstab file.

Good Luck

I'm not at the office and will try this tomorrow but it seems very familiar and I'm almost sure I have tried it with no success. I have added that line to the etc/fstab line. I get nothing on the desktop. Amazingly I was able to write to the disk in BIOS (backed up settings), so I know that disc is OK and the drive works.

This is the second problem I have come across with in Ubuntu that makes me wonder if I can fully migrate. The other one was unresolved and I gave up after a few weeks of tinkering with it. I could not mount some data DVD's I had burnt in Windows (UDF) files. I wioll post tomorow after I re-try this. Thanks for your help. Any one else has any suggestions? Can I go back to Lucid?

---

### Post by drillerccg on 2011-02-24
I did 

```
udisks --mount /dev/fd0
```and got this.

```

compaq@compaq-Presario:~$ udisks --mount /dev/fd0
Mount failed: Error mounting: mount exited with exit code 1: helper failed with:
mount: /dev/fd0 is not a valid block device
```

my fstab file:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
# / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=3695d39c-0174-4a9d-a1ad-d7203e17a7b7 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda5 during installation
UUID=dc863e9d-1847-4d32-9388-02570ade65ff none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
```



Frustrating. The floppy shows up in the places menu and the "computer". Any help is appreciated. Should I go back to Linux to use that work around?

---

### Post by plucky on 2011-02-25
> compaq@compaq-Presario:~$ udisks --mount /dev/fd0
Mount failed: Error mounting: mount exited with exit code 1: helper failed with:
mount: /dev/fd0 is not a valid block device

I get that error if there is no floppy in the drive.

Is the floppy formatted?

---

### Post by drillerccg on 2011-02-26
> **plucky said:**
> I get that error if there is no floppy in the drive.

Is the floppy formatted?

yes, I get the error with both floppies I have. I will take a couple of more floppies Monday to see if maybe the floppies are bad. I was however able to write to the floppy in BIOS (saved the settings to the floppy) and also access it through Puupy Linux. I used a USB of Puppy Linux, booted the computer and was able to see the files on the Floppy. I guess I can workaround it that way. I will report more on Monday. Thanks for helping out.

---

### Post by drillerccg on 2011-03-03
> **plucky said:**
> That was in Lucid and is no longer applicable in later versions.

Open a terminal and ```
udisks --mount /dev/fd0
``` will mount your floppy and an icon will appear on the desktop provided you have the line ```
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
``` in your /etc/fstab file.

Good Luck

This worked great. Thank you very much. It seems like I was using some bad disks. Works perfectly now.

---

### Post by murphyac on 2011-04-30
Worked for me too.  I had thought that having udisks pinned to 1.0.1-1build1 would work forever, but it didn't survive the upgrade from 10.04 to 10.1.  This mount from the terminal gives me my floppy drive again.  Thanks much.
Angela Murphy

---

### Post by plucky on 2011-04-30
> **murphyac said:**
> Worked for me too.  I had thought that having udisks pinned to 1.0.1-1build1 would work forever, but it didn't survive the upgrade from 10.04 to 10.1.  This mount from the terminal gives me my floppy drive again.  Thanks much.
Angela Murphy

It still works in 11.04

Good luck

---

### Post by mo7ard on 2011-06-21
Hi, thanks for the tip... worked great on my Ubuntu 10.10.

1) I edit /etc/fstaband add the line just like you said (replace)

2) booted my computer

3) runned the command line
*udisks --mount /dev/fd0*

4) the icon appeared and I had access to my floppy!


But now I have some doubts... how can I make it permanent in the system?

---

