---
title: "9.10 encrypted drive hangs on boot, need access as same user via usb boot to retrieve"
date: 2009-11-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Purple Mouse on 2009-11-29
Noob to your world. I've created a hanging system. Need to know how to access from USB boot as user on hung install. SDD is encrypted from install. I understand my options are limited to 3.

Background
Installed 9.10 (an iso file from Ubuntu main site) on Eee1005HAH with 60GB SSD. Was working great. Needed internet access via ZTE MF636. Installed usb-modeswitch, created  new file "sudo gedit /etc/udev/rules.d/90-zte.rules" changed product id from 0015 to 0031 in "sudo gedit /usr/share/hal/fdi/information/10freedesktop/10-modem.fdi" rebooted and system hangs after main Ubuntu screen with the windows equivalent of the hour glass.

Option 1 a knowledgeable soul out there knows how to logon as user via usb install to access encrypted drive. I'm thinking here to delete/return to original the two files added/changed. I can see the files I changed but cant delete or save changes as original file.

Option 2 Backup or recover all tomboy notes onto seperate HDD and then start from zero. Need to know what/where are the data files and where are they stored and what other files are required also to back up to access these tomboy notes after clean install.

Option 3  I clean install and lose all data made on tomboy notes over the last week. This is not the preferred option!

Any help would be appreciated. I've spent lots of time trawling through threads to access prior knowledge. Did I miss "the one"?

---

### Post by Purple Mouse on 2009-11-29
Problem partially SOLVED. Booted from usb drive and through terminal became super user. Then was able to delete/change file to original state.  Then rebooted on original file system and no system hang, all files intact!

Still researching where the tomboy notes data is actually kept. Cannot locate /.tomboy directory but can find tomboy files through  Ctrl+F in file browser. Unsure what the data files extensions are.

---

