---
title: "12.04 grub config file not working?"
date: 2013-09-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by JanuszR on 2013-09-28
I was trying grub customizer, but cant make to run choosen system after timeout. here is my grub file:

# If you change this file, run 'update-grub' afterwards to update
# /boot/grub/grub.cfg.
# For full documentation of the options in this file, see:
#   info -f grub -n 'Simple configuration'

GRUB_DEFAULT="saved"
#GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT="0"
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET="true"
GRUB_TIMEOUT="10"
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR="`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=""
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""

# Uncomment to enable BadRAM filtering, modify to suit your needs
# This works with Linux (no patch required) and with any kernel that obtains
# the memory map information from GRUB (GNU Mach, kernel of FreeBSD ...)
#GRUB_BADRAM="0x01234567,0xfefefefe,0x89abcdef,0xefefefef"

# Uncomment to disable graphical terminal (grub-pc only)
#GRUB_TERMINAL="console"

# The resolution used on graphical terminal
# note that you can use only modes which your graphic card supports via VBE
# you can see them in real GRUB with the command `vbeinfo'
#GRUB_GFXMODE="640x480"

# Uncomment if you don't want GRUB to pass "root=UUID=xxx" parameter to Linux
#GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_UUID="true"

# Uncomment to disable generation of recovery mode menu entries
#GRUB_DISABLE_RECOVERY="true"

# Uncomment to get a beep at grub start
#GRUB_INIT_TUNE="480 440 1"

GRUB_SAVEDEFAULT="true"
export GRUB_MENU_PICTURE="/usr/share/images/grub/Apollo_17_The_Last_Moon_Shot_Edit1.tga"

TIMEOUT is 10, so it looks ok, but it doesnt show countdown and it never starts automatically. 
Any advice?
Please help !

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-09-28
I do not think export goes into /etc/default/grub as that is parameters for the code not the code. 

It may work in 40_custom or maybe needs to be in one of the executables.
Manual says a config file.


It is a command not a parameter for commands.
[http://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/grub.html#export](http://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/grub.html#export)

> Exported variables are visible to subsidiary configuration files loaded using configfile

 How to: Create a Customized GRUB2 Screen that is Maintenance Free.- Cavsfan
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MaintenanceFreeCustomGrub2Screen](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MaintenanceFreeCustomGrub2Screen)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2076205](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2076205)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Displays](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Displays)

---

### Post by JanuszR on 2013-09-29
Manual says:
**GRUB_TIMEOUT=60** means Grub2 screen displays for 60 seconds before defaulting. 
And I put 10 as one can see in my grub file. So, if it does not working (no timeout to start system), what kind of software may manipulate grub to make it works?
Anyway, here is what I see in grub.d:
00_os-prober_proxy
14_linux_xen     
18_custom       
README
11_header        
15_memtest86+_proxy  
19_uefi-firmware
12_debian_theme     
16_os-prober_proxy     
bin
13_linux_proxy        
17_custom         
proxifiedScripts
Where 40_custom file should be if it not exist in grub.d?

---

### Post by Dave_L on 2013-09-29
> Where 40_custom file should be if it not exist in grub.d? 

I'm running 12.04, but I don't use grub customizer.

My /etc/grub.d/40_custom file looks like this:

```
#!/bin/sh
exec tail -n +3 $0
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.

```

---

### Post by JanuszR on 2013-09-29
OK, but in yours 40_custom file I cant see timeout section... Really confised with it. What I suppose is that grub file which i listed above is made by grub-customizer not linux system? Am I right?

---

### Post by Dave_L on 2013-09-29
I don't understand your question.

But did you run grub-update after making your changes?

```
sudo update-grub
```

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-09-29
All the proxy files are from grub customizer. It looks like you have 17_custom now. Grub processes everything with 2 digits and an underscore that is executable in number order.

---

### Post by JanuszR on 2013-09-29
sudo update-grub change nothing. Maybe I will try another way: which file I should add here to someone could see what is wrong? Reinstalling grubcustomizer dod not help. Reinstalling grub did not help with autostart. Maybe I should chang it to lilo - its good idea or not?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-09-29
I would not use lilo except as a Windows boot loader.

As long as you have the export in the /etc/default/grub, it is considered corrupted as that is not correct form for parameter so update will not run.

---

### Post by JanuszR on 2013-09-30
Just force changed 'timeout=-1" to 10 in /boot/grub/grub.cfg
to this
-------------------part of grub.cfg--------------------------
fi
terminal_output gfxterm
if [ "${recordfail}" = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=10
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/11_header ###
-------------------part of grub.cfg--------------------------
And I got countdown again.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-09-30
That will only last as long as until another update-grub that you run or occurs because of a grub or kernel update.

---

