---
title: "Noting but desktop and mouse cursor 11.10"
date: 2012-03-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by theducksfan2010 on 2012-03-08
I checked the box in Nvidia to use multiple monitors for desktop and when it rebooted all I have left is the Ubuntu 11.10 default desktop and a mouse cursor. Anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by Jon Monreal on 2012-03-08
Before trying to fix the problem so you can use both monitors, you can try to at least restore your desktop to its prior state.

Try pressing alt+f2 simultaneously, typing in "nvidia-settings" (minus the quotes, and pressing enter to try to bring up the Nvidia settings manager. If this doesn't work, we can try something else.

---

### Post by theducksfan2010 on 2012-03-09
no combination of any keys would do anything, so I did a fresh install (painful). Do you have any suggestion on how i can "Safely" run dual monitors in Ubuntu? I have grown attached to both and prefer to avoid Windows for that.

---

### Post by Jon Monreal on 2012-03-09
Was the above result before or after you logged in?

---

### Post by theducksfan2010 on 2012-03-09
That was after logging in.

---

### Post by kikotiger on 2012-03-09
What is the Nvidia version? On 290.10 you have to select Separate X screen under X Server Display Configuration and save the configuration, you might have to do it manually. I would suggest not to apply the settings and reboot. If you run into the same problem, run Ubuntu in safe mode and select failsafe graphics (or something like that.)

---

### Post by theducksfan2010 on 2012-03-13
> **kikotiger said:**
> What is the Nvidia version? On 290.10 you have to select Separate X screen under X Server Display Configuration and save the configuration, you might have to do it manually. I would suggest not to apply the settings and reboot. If you run into the same problem, run Ubuntu in safe mode and select failsafe graphics (or something like that.)

According to NVIDIA X Server Settings I am running Driver version 280.13. Should I update to 290.10. If so where is this found?

---

### Post by kikotiger on 2012-03-14
You should be fine with that version. How does your monitor configuration file looks like?
```

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

---

### Post by theducksfan2010 on 2012-03-15
> **kikotiger said:**
> You should be fine with that version. How does your monitor configuration file looks like?
```

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

this is what I get when i type what you posted:


office@office-GN584AA-ABA-m9060n:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Default Device"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

office@office-GN584AA-ABA-m9060n:~$

---

### Post by Soulcage on 2012-03-15
Have you tried sudo nvidia-xconfig?
Theres definately supposed to be more in xorg.conf.
You can also add this ppa [https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates]("https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates") it will take you to 295.20

---

### Post by theducksfan2010 on 2012-03-15
> **Soulcage said:**
> Have you tried sudo nvidia-xconfig?
Theres definately supposed to be more in xorg.conf.
You can also add this ppa [https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates]("https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates") it will take you to 295.20

office@office-GN584AA-ABA-m9060n:~$ sudo nvidia-xconfig
[sudo] password for office: 

Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".

VALIDATION ERROR: Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
                  Device section "Default Device" must have a Driver line.

Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

office@office-GN584AA-ABA-m9060n:~$ sudo cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 280.13  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-03.nvidia.com)  Wed Jul 27 17:15:58 PDT 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by theducksfan2010 on 2012-03-19
Bump

---

### Post by kikotiger on 2012-03-20
Try setting your monitors this way. On a terminal type this 
```

sudo nvidia-settings

```
Under S Server Display Configuration, click on your second monitor and select Separate X screen and apply the settings (click on the Enable Xinerama if you want to extend your desktop to your second monitor, otherwise you will have two different desktops). Then click on Save to X Configuration File, then Save. Logout and log back in to see if it works.

---

### Post by theducksfan2010 on 2012-03-24
> **kikotiger said:**
> Try setting your monitors this way. On a terminal type this 
```

sudo nvidia-settings

```
Under S Server Display Configuration, click on your second monitor and select Separate X screen and apply the settings (click on the Enable Xinerama if you want to extend your desktop to your second monitor, otherwise you will have two different desktops). Then click on Save to X Configuration File, then Save. Logout and log back in to see if it works.

clicking on separate settings and applying required a reboot for all to take effect and upon reboot is what caused this problem. I am wary of doing so again for fear of loosing the system one more time. 

But I really do need both monitors, and that fact has kept me running Windows 7 on said machine most of the time, staying away from Ubuntu (being limited to just the one monitor.)

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-03-24
You do not need a /etc/X11/xorg.conf file with current Xorg/X drivers.

I'm not sure separate X screens works with unity desktop in 11.10..& do **not** use Xinerama on separate X screens..
If You do, you have no openGL/GLX.

I also doubt any windows user would be satisfied with it..twinview mode is much closer to windows nvidia nview..

The OP might want to install an additional alternative desktop package:
gnome-session-fallback
Then when you login (or logout) & select the username, you can select diff desktop sessions: unity3d, 2d, gnome-classic(fallback) etc..

---

### Post by theducksfan2010 on 2012-03-25
> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> You do not need a /etc/X11/xorg.conf file with current Xorg/X drivers.

I'm not sure separate X screens works with unity desktop in 11.10..& do **not** use Xinerama on separate X screens..
If You do, you have no openGL/GLX.

I also doubt any windows user would be satisfied with it..twinview mode is much closer to windows nvidia nview..

The OP might want to install an additional alternative desktop package:
gnome-session-fallback
Then when you login (or logout) & select the username, you can select diff desktop sessions: unity3d, 2d, gnome-classic(fallback) etc..



Sounds like you have a good grasp on this. All I need is to be able to use both monitors for separate displays. How should I configure this? Every time I try to get both running, I mess up the whole OS and make it unusable (lucky fo me it has reverted back a few times instead of keeping the incompatible settings).

---

