---
title: "8.10 firewall issues"
date: 2009-01-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by emarkd on 2009-01-18
hello all,

i recently upgraded my home server to 8.10 and now i'm having network issues that i think are related to the firewall.  i can't seem to connect to my mysql server running there and using nmap i can see that port 3306 is in fact closed.  so i installed gufw and added a simple rule to allow traffic from anywhere on port 3306, but i stll can't connect and nmap still shows the port as closed.  what gives?

fwiw, this is an upgrade from 8.04, etc, and i used to use firestarter to manage iptables, but i uninstalled it.  is there something else i need to do? could i have more than one firewall running?

edit:  could this be an issue with mysql after upgrading?  i can still access the database using phpmyadmin, so i know it's working (and that my network's up and apache's working fine), but that's really a local connection to the database.  is there something in mysql that i should check?

---

### Post by adult swim on 2009-01-18
did you ever enable ufw before or after you made the rule?
```
sudo ufw enable
```

---

### Post by emarkd on 2009-01-18
i ticked the 'enable' box in the gui, but i ran your code just to be certain.  no change, but thanks anyway.

---

### Post by Ubelha on 2009-01-18
Thanks this will work for me too.

---

### Post by emarkd on 2009-01-18
fixed it.  turns out the problem was with user permissions in my mysql database.  nothing like spending an hour chasing down a problem to find you're looking in the wrong direction.  i guess that's why you shouldn't make too many changes at once.  you don't really know where to hunt for the problems.

still curious why nmap showed that port as closed...

---

