---
title: "8.04 Dual Boot with Vista?"
date: 2008-05-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by zxcvbnm2 on 2008-05-20
I have seen a couple of tutorials on the internet that say that the Ubuntu installer will set up a boot menu so one can choose which OS to use.  But that isn't what happened when I tried it. The computer just boots into Vista like before. 

A couple of people said I should try EasyBCD, but that doesn't work either.  What gives?  Is it really possible to dual boot these two operating systems?  If so, how to do it?

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-05-20
It's very possible for Ubuntu to co-exist with windoze. Maybe, you did not follow the correct procedure on dual booting bot Ubuntu and windoze. Try peeking on this [page]("http://www.howtoforge.com/dual_boot_windows_xp_vista_ubuntu_feisty") for detailed instructions. This work well with Hardy too.

---

### Post by twist2b on 2008-05-20
its pritty simple actually, you just have 2 kirnals and you have a linker (GRUB) to boot on system start and run the OS of your choice. Its really just information in the form of OS.

NOW, to set SPACE for your system I think you have solved that. Install GRUB though! and it will detect it on its own.

---

### Post by Wandering on 2008-05-20
EasyBCD works just dandy, and I have even triple booted with it. But you have to tell Ubuntu to install GRUB onto the Ubuntu partition during a Manual install.  There is a fine little tutorial on the website. I suggest you use it.

You may have to reinstall Ubuntu using the Manual and Advanced options as you follow the tutorial. It's won't mess with Vista, and EasyBCD will quickly edit the Vista BCD file to set up the dual boot leaving Vista as the owner of the MBR on the disk. 

Do check out the tutorial, It is all done in the GUI, and it is easy!

Good luck.

---

### Post by criskat777 on 2008-05-20
hello, if you are still around did you pArt. one hard drive or did you install it on a dif. hd?

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-05-20
when your installing ubuntu, towards the end of the procedure it will ask you if you would like to install GRUB bootloader to the MBR (you should choose yes)

---

### Post by maddog39 on 2008-05-20
Did you install Ubuntu on a separate hard drive? If so then it could be that the master boot record (what allows the GRUB/Boot menu to operate properly) was installed on the hard drive which is not set to boot first. In which case your just going to be dumped into Vista straight away. When you boot up the machine you will see keys to press for entering either Setup or the BIOS and you can change your hard drive boot priority in there.

---

### Post by Venality on 2008-05-20
Yes, it is possable. in fact i am doing it right now.
But i used the Wubi installer and before windows starts it lets me choose which i would like to boot vista, or Ubuntu. i think there is a way to make it so that the choosing time isnt short default its about 5+ seconds and it appears right after the bios boot

---

### Post by Skeet on 2008-05-20
Is this the gui install or command line? I never got that option when I installed. :confused:

Another question, is it possible to setup Vista after Ubuntu on a partition on the same drive and get it to show up in GRUB?

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-05-20
> is it possible to setup Vista after Ubuntu on a partition on the same drive and get it to show up in GRUB? 

yes, after vista overwrites the MBR you can use the live cd to restore grub, then just alter your /boot/grub/menu.lst to show vista

---

