---
title: "8.10 Desktop Installation Problems: Invalid CD"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by faith1215 on 2008-11-02
Hello all,

I'm completely new to Linux, but I thought I'd give it a shot. I just formatted my hard drive and installed Windows XP on one of my partitions. I attempted to load 8.10 from the CD that I had made earlier (had validated with hashes), and it seemed to come up fine. The menu loaded. When I select anything from the menu, however, nothing happens. The system beeps if I touch anything, but nothing loads, the memory does not get checked, and the CD isn't checked for defects.

Any help you can offer on this would be helpful!

Thanks,

Faythe

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2008-11-02
A bad CD burn could be the problem. Burn it slowly.

If the downloaded iso md5 was good the burn could be bad.

---

### Post by sayems on 2008-11-02
You can request for Ubuntu CD of the latest version (8.10 (Intrepid Ibex)) with no extra cost, just click on the link below and follow the instruction.

[https://shipit.ubuntu.com/]("https://shipit.ubuntu.com/")

---

### Post by faith1215 on 2008-11-02
> **73ckn797 said:**
> A bad CD burn could be the problem. Burn it slowly.


You know, I vaguely remember something about how it should be burned no faster than 4x. I think I'm going to try that again, see if it helps.

Thanks!

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2008-11-02
> **faith1215 said:**
> You know, I vaguely remember something about how it should be burned no faster than 4x. I think I'm going to try that again, see if it helps.

Thanks!


I have had a few bad burns myself. Made a copy for a neighbor and it was bad. Good thing disks are so cheap these days.

---

