---
title: "9.10 Memory Leak? (nub perspective)"
date: 2010-03-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by zzyzx1 on 2010-03-09
Hello, long story short, I used 9.04 on a old Dell for many months and was impressed enough to buy a new Dell (Zino HD) and bravely load 9.10 for full time home PC. Well, 3 things I MUST have functional:

1) Internet radio (via VLC as player)
2) Graphics, Compiz, destlets, etc.
3) XScreensaver (to play pictures from NAS as screensaver all day)

1 and 3 "worked" great all day every day on the old Dell under 9.04 but now with 9.10 i find that my system can only run "maybe" 8 hours before RAM gets up to around 80% and I lose the sound from VLC (stream still appears to be running) most graphics go away and the screen saver just goes black.

I can re-boot or log off-log in and the RAM drops back down to 25-30% and everything is as right as rain .

Would really love it if my system could run for more that 6-8 hrs a day without needing a re-boot. I know there are tweaks/scripts i could create to reboot but i just want it to "work". I am considering dropping back to 8.04 LTS (if anyone recommends it) because im not really a power user and may not need all the features of 9.10 as much as i need the reliability.

Dell Zino specs:

* AMD Neo X2 dual core 6850e processor
* 2 gb RAM
* 200 gb HD
* ATI Radeon HD 3200

Highly considering dropping back to 8.04 LTS to see if thats more stable for my system.

Thanks for any assistance! (btw, i install all recommended updates and am current)

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-03-09
Hi.
I don't know if this is what your problem is, but it might be related.
[http://www.linuxatemyram.com/index.html](http://www.linuxatemyram.com/index.html)

---

### Post by r-senior on 2010-03-09
I've not seen any problems with memory leaks on 9.10 and I have two different installs. Many others are using 9.10 quite happily too. It could be something you've added that's leaking?

You could let the system run and use System Monitor to see which processes are consuming the most memory, or if you fancy a solution you can just leave running in a terminal:

$ top

Then press Shift-F, followed by "o" to sort by the memory image size.

---

### Post by zzyzx1 on 2010-03-09
> **audiomick said:**
> Hi.
I don't know if this is what your problem is, but it might be related.
[http://www.linuxatemyram.com/index.html](http://www.linuxatemyram.com/index.html)

Yes, I was aware of this but it doesnt "seem" to be lending to the problem... I seem to be legitimately running out of resources and things stop working. That what appears to be happening...  

Thank you!

---

### Post by zzyzx1 on 2010-03-09
> **r-senior said:**
> I've not seen any problems with memory leaks on 9.10 and I have two different installs. Many others are using 9.10 quite happily too. It could be something you've added that's leaking?

You could let the system run and use System Monitor to see which processes are consuming the most memory, or if you fancy a solution you can just leave running in a terminal:

$ top

Then press Shift-F, followed by "o" to sort by the memory image size.

Yes, thank you, I have heard and seen the same.. although I have found very interesting post about the almost same issues but with Intel cards. I have only added widgets and stuff, very minor, but your suggestion is valid. When i have checked sys mon Compiz was always high if not top of the list but only 20-30 mb or so. I will keep checking... thank you.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-03-09
Ok, then run
```
top
```
in a terminal for while and see if you can see what is using a lot, or look at the system monitor in system> administration at the "processes" tab.
One or the other should show what is hogging the RAM, I think...

---

### Post by yaztromo on 2010-03-09
Open a terminal

```
free -m
```
You will see something like this:
```

             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:           497        408         88          0         44        194
-/+ buffers/cache:        169        327
Swap:          486          0        486

```

It looks like I have 408mb used but this is not true. Linux kernel is just claiming it for disk cache and it will be freed if a program needs to use it. The real amount is just under that number - 169mb.

So when you think all your RAM is being used up have a look and you will find it's probably being utilised for disk cache.

---

### Post by zzyzx1 on 2010-03-09
Thanks, agreed. So, i may have unnecessarily associated failing programs and resources to memory. Coincidence that these things fail when mem appears to peak..??

Thanks!

---

### Post by yaztromo on 2010-03-10
Well it's strange that your machine starts to go crazy. That really shouldn't happen.

Is there a really a process using all the RAM, or is it disk cache? What are your findings?

---

### Post by zzyzx1 on 2010-03-10
> **yaztromo said:**
> Well it's strange that your machine starts to go crazy. That really shouldn't happen.

Is there a really a process using all the RAM, or is it disk cache? What are your findings?

The utilization (total of 2gig of ram) still climbs to about 75-80%, nothing on swap, when sound and sometimes the entire vlc app and the screensaver (and sometimes the desktop image) just go away... Xorg, compiz are usually at the top of list in terms of consumption, 20-30 mb each with python, cairo-dock and pulse as the next runners up. The later tend to spike up near the first batch but not often.

So, it may be coincidence that apps/resources are misbehaving at times of perceived high ram utilization, i'm just not seeing complete consumption occur. But, after 2-3 days the system will freeze, haven't checked in a few days but nothing has really changed. Since i log out/log in each morning to get things to work I haven't let it run for several days in a while. After that I dont know where to look to tell me what failed, when and why.

May have to start looking at audio and graphics troubleshooting? I'm lost there... i would love to find a log that would show me what crashed and when... sys log wasn't really giving me much along those lines. Thanks for any guidance!

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2010-03-10
It may be worth running memtest86+ for a few hours (could be poorly seated RAM that only shows up when the PC is hot).

---

### Post by zzyzx1 on 2010-03-10
> **Kevbert said:**
> It may be worth running memtest86+ for a few hours (could be poorly seated RAM that only shows up when the PC is hot).

Will begin now... thanks! (as we speak screen froze and vlc disappeared) on a windows machine now...

---

