---
title: "You do not have the priveledge to mount this Volume."
date: 2009-01-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by benzodiaz on 2009-01-01
Hi, 

I have a media drive internal partition that cannot be mounted.

The same error has come up in another thread solved, with the same name as this one.

I have tried to follow the wise words of taurus but my problem seems unique.


I get this gedit code from 

gksudo gedit /etc/fstab

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=9e9e63bc-071f-45d0-9422-51809a593aa7 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=323ecde0-854c-4920-9bbe-659e90b93065 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/Windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0

the drive that I need to access is sda2 and in another terminal it shows up with all drives and is bootable *

But I think that the partition may be wrecked since the grub only have linux kernels and no windows option.
running
any idears?

thanks, 
benzo

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-01-01
What happens if you try to mount it from a terminal?

```
sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sda2 /media/Windows
```

---

### Post by ToySouljah on 2009-01-01
I had this problem after having Vista hang and then rebooting to Ubuntu.  Did you shut down your Windows correctly?  My problem was solved when I rebooted into Windows and then restarted to boot Ubuntu.  Hope it helps  :)

---

### Post by benzodiaz on 2009-01-01
Thank you for your input ToySouljah. Unfortunately, the grub will not give the option to boot into windows, even thought i would not mind booting windows..

hawk@Back-hoe:~$ sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sda2 /media/Windows
[sudo] password for hawk: 
$MFTMirr does not match $MFT (record 1).
Failed to mount '/dev/sda2': Input/output error
NTFS is either inconsistent, or you have hardware faults, or you have a
SoftRAID/FakeRAID hardware. In the first case run chkdsk /f on Windows
then reboot into Windows TWICE. The usage of the /f parameter is very
important! If you have SoftRAID/FakeRAID then first you must activate
it and mount a different device under the /dev/mapper/ directory, (e.g.
/dev/mapper/nvidia_eahaabcc1). Please see the 'dmraid' documentation
for the details.

This is the same error from the gui mount... I do not know how to run chkdsk /f.

sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xb0000000

   Device Boot          Start              End           Blocks       Id     System
/dev/sda1                   1                9           72261   de  Dell    Utility
/dev/sda2       *          10            16128       129470460        7      HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3               16129            19457        26740192+       5      Extended
/dev/sda5               16129            19314        25591513+      83      Linux
/dev/sda6               19315            19457         1148616       82      Linux swap / Solaris
hawk@Back-hoe:~$ sudo mkdir /mnt/dev/sda2
mkdir: cannot create directory `/mnt/dev/sda2': No such file or directory
hawk@Back-hoe:~$ sudo mkdir /mnt/sda2
hawk@Back-hoe:~$ sudo mount -t ufs/dev/sda2/mnt/sda2

sorry about the late reply, thanks though

---

