---
title: "14.04 - how to edit and SAVE a text file?"
date: 2014-12-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by flameproof on 2014-12-29
14.04 - how to edit and SAVE a text file?

I know I can edit a text file. Works great! But how can I actually SAVE the file? When I open Gedit the save option isn't available.

I talk about system files in /etc/

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2014-12-29
Those are system files and can't be edited by a plain user. You'll need to use gedit with gksudo or pkexec (?) depending on how your system is set up.

Otherwise, use sudo nano if you know how to use the terminal and nano.

You seem to be new to Linux and so it's better you explain what you're trying to do. People here can guide you accordingly.

---

### Post by flameproof on 2014-12-29
Somehow sudo nano did open gedit in a saveable mode. At least once. Nano in terminal reminds me of DOS in around 1990.

The general error I get is that 'root is not the owner'....

Aim is to recognize USB ports inside VirtualBox for an XP installation. So far it doesn't.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-12-29
> [COLOR=#000000]Aim is to recognize USB ports inside VirtualBox for an XP installation. So far it doesn't.[/COLOR]

Intrigued.
This is for a Virtualbox you say?
What is what.
What is the host and what is the guest?

I'm guessing, but not clear, that Ubuntu 14.04 is the host and XP is the guest, is that so?
Is XP installed or is this pre-install that you mean?

If the Virtualbox host is Ubuntu, have you added your user to the vboxusers group?

Quite a few unknowns I guess, including the file to edit at hand...

---

### Post by flameproof on 2014-12-29
Here is what I did:

Installed 14.04 (as only system, purely SSD run)

Then: 
VirtualBox

Inside the VirtualBox I installed Win XP (just to get to a few websites that require Windows only)
One website requires a key from an USB stick

Everything so far works, except the USB stick (have to say that I have EXACTLY the same running on an old Ubuntu 9.04 , and it works there.)

---

### Post by vitto2 on 2014-12-29
Hi, to create a new document and save, I used this command, on path that you want.
*$ > filename.txt*
*$ nano filename.txt*
'>' This is a character to dump anything on file, also you use '>>' to introduce new lines at bottom text.
sorry for my vocabulary, I hope you understand me.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-12-29
You should be able to muck about with adding/subtracting usb stuff by adding your user to the vboxusers group.
```
sudo adduser yourusername vboxusers
```
Then logout of Ubuntu and log back in.
Then add the usb device in the vm's setting page on Virtualbox main page >> settings >> usb >> add filter(either an empty one or from an existing device) then click OK.
The XP should have access to the usb device.
One would think...

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-12-29
For USB to work in a VBox guest OS you must install the VBox Guest additions which you get from
[http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/4.3.20/Oracle_VM_VirtualBox_Extension_Pack-4.3.20-96996.vbox-extpack](http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/4.3.20/Oracle_VM_VirtualBox_Extension_Pack-4.3.20-96996.vbox-extpack)
Once that is installed you will need to start WinXP virtual machine and go to the Devices ->Insert Guest Additions CD Image, or just press **Right Ctrl+D** and follow the prompts.  You also will need to ensure you have enabled USB in the guest machine.

VBox Guest Additions also gives you the option of **shared folders** from your host to and from the guest,** shared clipboard**, and **drag/drop** from OS to OS so makes the use of VBox a great deal more friendly.
If you ever decide to use VBox for a Linux guest as well as XP, you will also need to ensure you are a member of the sfvbox group in the guest for some of this to work successfully.

---

### Post by flameproof on 2014-12-29
@deadflowr
Great! That worked for me. Thanks!

@ajgreeny
Sounds good, I will try that later. A shared folder is certainly something very usefull.

This said, So far I really just use Xp for that few websites. There are some other programs that work on Windows that come to mind for a try, QQ chat is one of them (the Linux app doesn't work, never did).

---

### Post by flameproof on 2014-12-31
@ajgreeny
I didn't check what you wrote due to time issues. But folder sharing with the Xp box is working anyway.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-12-31
> **flameproof said:**
> @ajgreeny
I didn't check what you wrote due to time issues. But folder sharing with the Xp box is working anyway.
Perhaps things have changed; I am pretty certain the guest additions used to be needed for all that to work.

A quick look on the Oracle site shows this:-
> Additional extension packs can be downloaded which extend the           functionality of the VirtualBox base package. Currently, Oracle           provides the one extension pack, which can be found at [http://www.virtualbox.org](http://www.virtualbox.org)           and provides the following added functionality:

[LIST=1]
[*]The virtual USB 2.0 (EHCI) device; see [Section 3.10.1, “USB settings”]("https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch03.html#settings-usb").

[*]VirtualBox Remote Desktop Protocol (VRDP) support; see                 [Section 7.1, “Remote display (VRDP support)”]("https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch07.html#vrde").

[*]Host webcam passthrough; see chapter [Section 9.7.1, “Using a host webcam in the guest”]("https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch09.html#webcam-passthrough").

[*]Intel PXE boot ROM.

[*]Experimental support for PCI passthrough on Linux hosts;                   see [Section 9.6, “PCI passthrough”]("https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch09.html#pcipassthrough").
[/LIST]

so they're needed for USB-2 but not USB-1, by the looks of it, and a few other things, but not quite what I thought it to be.

I learn something new every day!

---

