---
title: "(5.00%) reserved for the super user"
date: 2012-01-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by davethewave83 on 2012-01-14
when using mkfs.ext4 on a drive it tells me (5.00%) reserved for the super user
this is really no problem on flash drives, but for my 500Gb drive that's 25Gigs it's taking off, and my 1TB? 

how do I override this, and is this really needed? (especially at this size?)

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-01-14
It's connect to a folder it creates called lost+found'

It's for system recovery 

> Many (but not all) filesystem types use it for filesystem recovery.
Most notably when checking the filesystem, if they find stuff which
still exists (e.g. non-zero length file with non-zero link count) but
doesn't have a proper place (exists in no directories), since the
recovery may know the file structure and it's associated data, but
not where it should be located, or what link name(s) it had, the
typical recovery process (fsck) would place it in the lost+found
directory at the root (topmost level) of the particular filesystem in
question.  For the applicable types of filesystems, the lost+found
directory should exist, its permissions should not be mucked with
(that could create security issues), and it should not be removed (if
it is removed, care should be taken that it is created to be of
appropriate size).  The reason lost+found must exist and be of
appropriate size when doing such recoveries, is that the recovery
process may need a directory to link found stuff into - and if
there's a fair amount of stuff found, it will need enough existing
empty slots in the directory to link things there without growing the
directory (as growing or creating the directory while trying to do a
recovery could potentially destroy data one needs to recover - or at
best would greatly complicate the recovery process - and there's also
risk that the filesystem could be or become full, and again it would
then be impossible or infeasible to reasonably conveniently recover
the data/files).

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2012-01-14
You can modify the percentage of reserved blocks with 'tune2fs -m X', for example:

sudo tune2fs -m 0.1 /dev/sda1 #will change the percentage to 0.1% on sda1

sudo tune2fs -m 0 /dev/sda1 #will make it zero on sda1

---

### Post by davethewave83 on 2012-01-14
> **mikewhatever said:**
> You can modify the percentage of reserved blocks with 'tune2fs -m X', for example:

sudo tune2fs -m 0.1 /dev/sda1 #will change the percentage to 0.1% on sda1

sudo tune2fs -m 0 /dev/sda1 #will make it zero on sda1

right on! Thanks for the help guys! it's actually a pretty ingenious idea, I think 4-8gigs is really enough for my usage in this case.

---

