---
title: "14.04 -- Windows network not visible"
date: 2014-06-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by keats4 on 2014-06-11
Hello 

I am working with a perfectly clean install of 14.04 from a disk I burned about 2 weeks ago. (Apx May 28, 2014)

I go to:

- Files (icon on launcher)
- Browse Network (left side tree menu)
- Windows Network (double click)

At this point I can't see any network computers (totally blank). What do I need to do to see my windows net work. I want to be able to use printers and copy files.

(Other info I went to System settings, Printers, Add, *then I went through the steps to have it search for my win2003 server. It found it and asked for a password. . . weird. I did not go any further with the printer install.*

Thanks
Keats

---

### Post by keats4 on 2014-06-12
Okay for crying out loud I turned on the computer today and now the network is visible. . . really weird . . .put this thread on hold for now . . .

Actually anyone have any theories on why this happened?

Keats4

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-06-12
Well, I do (sorta of...).
I've experience similar behavior in many freshly installed systems before. Apparently it needs some time to "get used" to the network environment with multi-platforms (or just Windows + Linux). I know the wording isn't scientific, not at all, and I would love some other inputs about this as well.

---

### Post by bab1 on 2014-06-12
> **keats4 said:**
> Okay for crying out loud I turned on the computer today and now the network is visible. . . really weird . . .put this thread on hold for now . . .

Actually anyone have any theories on why this happened?

Keats4
The SMB/CIFS network (Samba and Windows Sharing) is displayed via a Master Browse List (MBL) that is updated every 15 minutes or so.  The Master Browser (MB) is a SMB/CIFS machine that is elected by the participating servers.  If this machine goes off line then a new MB is elected and a new MBL is created.  This can cause a delay in the beginning sometimes.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-06-12
Thank you. That explains a lot.

---

### Post by oldefoxx on 2015-02-20
I have something similar, persistent, never shows anything in Network/Windows Network, and won't connect to any server on home network.  Any ideas?  Running VM Windows 2000 client shows network, but with some removed pcs still in place, although these are now invalid.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by scottbomb on 2015-02-20
> **oldefoxx said:**
> I have something similar, persistent, never shows anything in Network/Windows Network, and won't connect to any server on home network.  Any ideas?  Running VM Windows 2000 client shows network, but with some removed pcs still in place, although these are now invalid.  Any ideas?

Can you ping from one machine to the other? Can the Windows machine see the Ubuntu machine?

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2015-02-21
Howdy,

It is best to debug SMB issues using smbclient, since then you can see the actual error messages.  The GUI tools are only useful if everything is working already.

---

