---
title: "Upgrade problems from 7.x to 8.10 help please"
date: 2010-06-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cogvos on 2010-06-29
Dear all,

I had a working 7.x version of Ubuntu.
I added a new Nvidia card (a 9500) and then X failed and I could not fix it...

I have a working 9.10 version of Ubuntu - which recognizes the new Nvidia card (they are on the same box)

So I thought all I had to do was upgrade the 7.x to 9.10 - simple? Nope!

After installing the new card the 7.x version would only run a default(?) x windows at 800*600.
After upgrading 8.10 is only running 640*480 and refuses to allow me to change the res. The update also zapped the Nvidia x server and I cannot use Synaptic as the window it opens is too big so I cannot get to the proceed button. I'm stuck! I can't even post on the 8.10 box for the same reason. All the windows are opening on a 640*480 screen as if it's 800*600 and I cannot get to any close or confirm buttons. :confused:

Can someone tell me how to:

Kill X
Get X to use some kind of default config to say 800*600
download and configure the nvidia package (I'm guessing this is needed and hope that 8.10 will recognise a 9500 'cos 7.x sure as hell didn't)
start X again

from the command line - with no graphical stuff 'cos at present X is stuffed.

So that I can then upgrade to 9.10.

I'm afrad that I cannot post any files for the reasons mentioned previously - sorry.

J.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-06-29
Ubuntu 7.x and 8.10 are no longer supported.

I recommend a fresh install of the current release (10.04) and then follow this guide to get your Nvidia working: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)

Or: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/nvidia](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/nvidia)

---

### Post by cogvos on 2010-06-29
> **snowpine said:**
> Ubuntu 7.x and 8.10 are no longer supported.

I recommend a fresh install of the current release (10.04) and then follow this guide to get your Nvidia working: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)

Or: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/nvidia](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/nvidia)

Sorry I cannot do this for various dull reasons like data, specialist programmes, set up etc etc. Starting from scratch would be too painful to contemplate!

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-06-29
> **cogvos said:**
> Sorry I cannot do this for various dull reasons like data, specialist programmes, set up etc etc. Starting from scratch would be too painful to contemplate!

In that case, you will need the EOL Upgrade Guide:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades)

I have not attempted this personally and cannot assist, so best of luck to you! :)

---

### Post by eeperson on 2010-06-29
If you down 'alt' you should be able to click anywhere on a window to move it.  This should allow reach any buttons on windows you need.  If that doesn't work, you will probably have to make the changes you need from a virtual terminal.

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2010-06-29
grab another hard drive and work up a new installation while leaving your other hard drive completely out of the mix...

might as well grab a copy of 10.04 and run like the wind...

as far as the valuable stuff you have on the original hard drive...

we're assuming you have current and adequate back-ups and clones to prevent headaches, heartaches, and time consumption required to reinvent the wheel...

if you were in the neighborhood we'd offer a drive, a disk, and a Gibbs-slap for good luck!

it's all good!

.

---

### Post by cogvos on 2010-06-30
Hmm Not sure about it all being good. Most of this is just bad...

From the top.

Have now upgraded to 10.04 to try and fix this 640*480 limit problem. Result? It ain't.

I am still stuck at 640*480 in 10.04. My 9.10 install works fine on the same box.

So how do I kill x and force it to rebuild its config files? It appears to have detected everything but (and its a big but) will give no higher res than 640*480.

<edit for xconfig file below>

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Thu Apr 22 11:44:23 PDT 2010

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
#	Driver		"kbd"
#	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
#	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
#	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
#	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
#EndSection
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
#	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
#	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
#	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
#	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
#	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
#EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"

	# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
	# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
	#	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
	# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
	#	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Failsafe Monitor"
    VendorName     "Plug 'n' Play"
    ModelName      "Plug 'n' Play"
    Gamma           1
    ModeLine       "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Failsafe Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    BoardName      "vesa"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Failsafe Device"
    Monitor        "Failsafe Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Virtual     640 480
        Depth       24
        Modes      "640x480@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


Help?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-06-30
I would recommend changing your thread title to something descriptive such as "Help me get higher resolution than 640x480 with Nvidia a 9500 on Ubuntu 10.04"

Your current problem has nothing to do with upgrading 7.x to 8.10 and here is no chance a Nvidia expert will stumble upon it with that title. :) Good luck!

---

### Post by cogvos on 2010-06-30
> **snowpine said:**
> I would recommend changing your thread title to something descriptive such as "Help me get higher resolution than 640x480 with Nvidia a 9500 on Ubuntu 10.04"

Your current problem has nothing to do with upgrading 7.x to 8.10 and here is no chance a Nvidia expert will stumble upon it with that title. :) Good luck!

Stupid question...

How? My screen is v difficult to navigate at present so please tell me where the edit title button is 

Thanks. :/

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-06-30
I can't remember either :( maybe just start a new thread? :)

---

### Post by Spr0k3t on 2010-06-30
Edit the first post.  Also, have you tried purging and reinstalling nvidia stuff as recommended from the sticky?  I had a similar issue and found a work-around for my system that might work for you as well... but then again, I haven't seen another user with the exact same issue that I have.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9476657&postcount=34](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9476657&postcount=34)

---

### Post by cogvos on 2010-06-30
> **Spr0k3t said:**
> Edit the first post.  Also, have you tried purging and reinstalling nvidia stuff as recommended from the sticky?  I had a similar issue and found a work-around for my system that might work for you as well... but then again, I haven't seen another user with the exact same issue that I have.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9476657&postcount=34](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9476657&postcount=34)

Sigh... Well I tried editing the first post and I could change its title, but not the title of the whole thread.

I have marked this as solved now - even though it is not - and created a new post relating specifically to my issue regarding x. Have tried purging etc, problem appears to be that 10.04 is failing to auto detect the screen and card - even though the nvidia prefs are reporting these correctly.
Please see [http://www.uluga.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1521173](http://www.uluga.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1521173)

---

