---
title: "All Browsers close as soon as I open them."
date: 2011-12-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Peddler9 on 2011-12-30
Hi, 


I've been using Ubuntu for the last few years, with no real problems at all... but this is really getting to me now.

Everytime I open a browser Chrome, FF, Epiphany or Chromium it closes immediately. I have no idea why, Im using 11.10. Any help/guidance/advice would be much appreciated!

---

### Post by NilPointer on 2011-12-30
That's really strange... I can't think of reason why all browsers would fail at once...

Did you noted when that started? After installing something, after upgrading to 11.10, etc?

---

### Post by QIII on 2011-12-30
If you know how to use the terminal (if you don't, ask), attempt to start FireFox and see if it returns any errors.

```
firefox
```

---

### Post by Peddler9 on 2011-12-30
It started on Christmas eve, installed nothing... and it's been a while since I upgraded to 11.10

I ran it from Terminal earlier on today, and it did give me an error but now Im not getting one! I have the crash report generated by Firefox itself, would that be useful?

---

### Post by QIII on 2011-12-30
Yep.

I'm not thinking right at the moment that it is a Launchpad issue.

Also, try running

```
firefox -safe-mode
```

just for giggles and grins.

---

### Post by NilPointer on 2011-12-30
> **Peddler9 said:**
> It started on Christmas eve, installed nothing... and it's been a while since I upgraded to 11.10

I ran it from Terminal earlier on today, and it did give me an error but now Im not getting one! I have the crash report generated by Firefox itself, would that be useful?

If crash report is readable (not in binary form), then it may be useful. At least, it might give idea which module/library causes crash.

---

### Post by Peddler9 on 2011-12-30
Not sure what the procedure on images on here, so I'll link you to it.

[http://imgur.com/a568d](http://imgur.com/a568d)

Thanks

---

### Post by QIII on 2011-12-30
Is that all there is to it?

Can you copy and past the whole thing if there is more?

Click on the # sign above the input box and put the whole thing between the code tags.

---

### Post by NilPointer on 2011-12-30
It seems too short... And there's no crucial technical data (like faulty module and call stack).

---

### Post by Peddler9 on 2011-12-30
```
BuildID: 20111115184056
CrashTime: 1325245931
EMCheckCompatibility: true
FramePoisonBase: 00000000f0dea000
FramePoisonSize: 4096
InstallTime: 1324423910
Notes: OpenGL: Tungsten Graphics, Inc -- Mesa DRI Intel(R) 965GM x86/MMX/SSE2 -- 2.1 Mesa 7.11 -- texture_from_pixmap

ProductName: Firefox
SecondsSinceLastCrash: 745
StartupTime: 1325245918
Theme: classic/1.0
Throttleable: 1
URL: jar:file:///usr/lib/firefox-8.0/omni.jar!/chrome/browser/content/browser/aboutSessionRestore.xhtml
Vendor: Mozilla
Version: 8.0

This report also contains technical information about the state of the application when it crashed.

```

That's what I got when I ran it in Safe mode and it crashed.

---

### Post by shubham1 on 2011-12-30
try fixing broken packages it could have benn caused because of broken packages
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
i think this can fix broken pacakges

---

### Post by Peddler9 on 2011-12-30
I just tried that again, and no luck at all. Anyone have anymore ideas? I'm going mad!

---

### Post by keithpeter on 2011-12-30
Hello Peddler9

I'm no expert but this is only affecting Web browsers? Assuming so, try

EDIT

0) Try installing a text mode browser that will not use any plug ins or special graphics stuff

```
sudo apt-get install w3m
w3m google.com
w3m {web address of the page you use as a home page}
```

You should see a very basic text rendition of the Google search page in the terminal window, but you will also see a dialogue where w3m records all the cookies being set, dns lookups and so on. The dialogue is quite quick, it flashes past on the bottom of the Terminal window.

If that works ok, then your networking is OK. Must be graphics or flash or another plugin common to all your browsers. Skip 1) below. If w3m can't get Web sites, then try 1) below to make sure its not something odd with the networking.

/EDIT

1) Booting off your live CD/USB Stick that was used for installation using the 'try Ubuntu' choice and see if Firefox opens ok on the live CD. If so, its something to do with your box and the configuration files.

2) Having booted back into your hard drive installation, try logging out and logging in using the Unity 2d session. That switches off the 'fancy graphic effects'. I've noticed that Firefox sometimes has problems with screen refresh when using Unity 'full fat' on a PC with marginal graphics. If the browsers work ok on Unity 2d, then its something to do with graphics, ask the Compiz wizards here.

3) If the browsers crash under Unity 2d then it might be something to do with the common plugins like Flash or Java - but I think Flash is ruled out by the Firefox in safe mode test. Do you have a special home page set in your graphical browsers? Does that have heavy graphics with applets and blinking things?

---

### Post by Dlambert on 2011-12-30
If all else fails...try re-installing them, with new fresh settings

---

### Post by Peddler9 on 2012-01-19
Hey lads, was off here for the last 3 weeks had exams! Need to get this sorted asap! Gonna try the above w3m browser and see how that goes. Have already uninstalled every browser and reinstalled. I'm losing the plot now with it! Have assignments due soon now too!

---

### Post by Peddler9 on 2012-01-19
SOLVED! - Well, I say solved but I just reinstalled Ubuntu completely, drastic I know.

I did abit more googling and found someone with a very similar problem, basically they tried everything I had, and then some. They finally gave in and reinstalled. I was happy enough to reinstall as I decided to go back to 10, as I much preferred it to 11.

Thanks for all the help on here guys. Strange problem, must have been an update to something and my old laptop couldnt handle it!

---

