---
title: "14.10 not booting anymore; (initramfs)"
date: 2014-12-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by peer2 on 2014-12-17
Hi there,

I'm new to this forum.

Recently I have converted a Windows pc into a dual boot device with openelec and Ubuntu.

Openelec still starts up without problems, but Ubunto not.

Have ran the boot repair, and got message that it was solved, but it wasn't.

I have the following link for the error listing: paste.ubuntu.com/9554747/

when using the command 
sudo fdisk -lu 
I get the listing of all partitions and the following remark: 

Partition table entries are not in order.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-12-17
Can you boot older kernel or recovery mode?
If you do not get grub menu hold shift key from BIOS until menu appears.

Not familiar with ION video. But it says you are using nouveau.

[http://nvidia.custhelp.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/3473](http://nvidia.custhelp.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/3473)

---

### Post by peer2 on 2014-12-19
Hi Oldfred,

Thx for your rply. 

No, I can not boot in recovery mode (Linux 3.16.0-25).

It does boot however an older kernel, Linux 3.16.0-24.
If  I try to boot this kernel in recovery mode, my (USB) keyboard does not  function. Whether I use a wireless, or a wired keyboard.
 
I have  set up the boot menu to chose between Ubuntu and Openlec. Open elec  boots after 10 sec. If I chose for Ubuntu, Ubuntu does not boot.

Look forward to hear.

Cheers, Peer

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-12-19
Did you have a nVidia driver installed?

Some others have reported issues with recent updates and new kernel and nVidia.
One was able to fix it with a forced reinstall of the kernel. I think if you just say install, it will say it is already installed.

You could also try this, which may be what reinstalling the kernel forces, a rebuild of the initrd.img:
 sudo update-initramfs -k all -c

---

### Post by peer2 on 2014-12-19
Hi OldFred,

where shoudl I do that? Via a live USb or via a boot of an older kernel?

Peer

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-12-19
If you can boot, do that, otherwise with live installer you would have to chroot into system I think.

---

### Post by peer2 on 2014-12-19
Hi,

that gives the following error:

update-initramfs is disabled since running on read-only media

Any clue?

Peer

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-12-19
Did you boot in recovery mode not second kernel?
Recovery mode then has read only mode so you can run fsck as everything must be unmounted.
But I thought it gave options to boot normally?

---

### Post by peer2 on 2014-12-20
I did it in live usb.
Does that make a difference?

---

### Post by peer2 on 2014-12-20
I now did it in a kernel (25), however, for some reason that is becoming more and more difficult. Where before the kernel 24 started up with good resolution and possible use of keyboard and mouse, it doesn't do that anymore.

Having executed the instruction as suggested (sudo update-initramfs -k all -c), I get the follwoing reply:

update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-3.16.0-25-generic
 WARNING: missing /lib/modules/3.16.0-25-generic
 Device driver support needs thus be built-in linux image!
 depmod: ERROR: could not open directory /lib/modules/3.16.0-25-generic: No such file or directory
 depmod: FATAL: could not search modules: No such file or directory
 depmod: WARNING: could not open /tmp/mkinitramfs_9qldUC/lib/modules/3.16.0-25-generic/modules.order: No such file or directory
 depmod: WARNING: could not open /tmp/mkinitramfs_9qldUC/lib/modules/3.16.0-25-generic/modules.builtin: No such file or directory

it seems that this is not possible in the 25 kernel?

Beginning to think to re-install....

In order to retain my openelec installation (separate partitions) and the boot menu, do I need to take special precautions?
I did copy the boot directory to another pc.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-12-20
You cannot run from live installer as that is trying to update the live installer which is not possible. From live installer you can chroot or CHange ROOT to be in your system to run commands on install to repair it.

You can force reinstall 3.16.0-25-generic to see if that will fix it.

You are not attempting to share a /boot with your other system?

Only use Something Else to reinstall. Auto reinstall may say overwriting Ubuntu but erases entire drive.
       Reinstall says overwrite Ubuntu but it also erases existing Windows or any other partitions.
Sept 2014 Fix being released for one drive installs, but mulitiple drive installs must use Something Else. And fix is not in current versions.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1265192](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1265192)

---

