---
title: "9.04 wich version - pros and cons??"
date: 2009-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cwmoser on 2009-05-01
I currently use 8.04 Ubuntu and have installed 9.04 and it looks great - and seems much faster.

My question - which of the 9.04 Ubuntu distributions should I install:

- 386 version
- 64 bit version
- Ubuntu Studio ([http://UbuntuStudio.org](http://UbuntuStudio.org)) or standard Ubuntu

I can run either the 386 or the 64 bit version but wonder what issues I might run into.  How much more does Ubuntu Studio offer?  Can the extensions be easily installed to the standard Ubuntu?

A show stopper for me is if NXMachine, VMWare, or Crossover will not run.

Comments?

Carl

---

### Post by wersdaluv on 2009-05-01
I prefer the 64bit version if your processor is compatible. I surveyed about it and found the arguments logical. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1114047&page=7](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1114047&page=7) I use it now and I don't regret it. The only issue I found was the incompatibility of Google Gears but that's not a big enough issue for me to sacrifice the speed offered by 64 bit.

I prefer the standard Ubuntu but Ubuntu Studio is better for you if you do multimedia editing. If not, there's no reason for you to install extra packages. After all, Ubuntu Studio is just Ubuntu with multimedia editing programs installed out of the box.

---

### Post by camaron1 on 2009-05-01
I installed 64 bits (on a Core 2 Quad processor) an it actually ran generally slower for me, the reason probably being that it actually uses far more ram than the 32 bits version (it did in my computer at least). I "only" have 2.6 gigas and I make intensive use of it. Maybe if you have more ram you'll be fine I don't know. Where 64 was clearly faster was when processing music (ripping, converting formats, etc)

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2009-05-03
OK, I tested both the 32 bit and the 64 bit versions and I did note that the 64 bit version was much faster using my AMD X2 64 6000+ cpu based PC.

One thing I did find was that when I removed **pci=nomsi** from the kernel line in /boot/grub/menu.lst, it seemed much faster.

The only issue I have is that I need 64-bit drivers for the Brother MFC-440CN printer.

Carl

---

