---
title: "10.04: Installing lib32ncurses5-dev, ia32-libs, lib32readline5-dev, and lib32z-dev"
date: 2013-12-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lambdafox on 2013-12-29
I am a newbie with Ubuntu / Linux, but have been using computers for many years.  I have done some programming and am comfortable digging for things beneath the surface.

I have Ubuntu 10.04 running in a VMWare Virtual Machine on my 32-bit Windows XP desktop.

When I try sudo apt-get install gperf in a terminal window, I get the following error:

[B][I]Ignoring install-info called from maintainer script
The package gperf should be rebuilt with new debhelper to get trigger support[/I][/B]  :confused:

I did not find this specific problem in the forum, but a google search suggests that this is a known bug in version 3.0.3-1 that was fixed in version 3.0.3-2

Status:  Resolved.  Upgrading to Ubuntu 12.04 fixed this.

---

### Post by lambdafox on 2013-12-29
I am a newbie with Ubuntu / Linux, but have been using computers for many years.  I have done some programming and am comfortable digging for things beneith the surface.

I have Ubuntu 10.04 running in a VMWare Virtual Machine on my 32-bit Windows XP desktop.

Each of the following produces the same error:

sudo apt-get install lib32ncurses5-dev
sudo apt-get install ia32-libs
sudo apt-get install lib32readline5-dev
sudo apt-get install lib32z-dev in a terminal window, I get the following error:

***Couldn't find package.*** :confused:

What I found in the forums and via google all led me to believe that there is a problem with my sources.list.  I am attaching that file and a screen shot of the software update center.

Status:  Resolved.  These are packages required to build 32-bit apps on a 64-bit machine.  I need to consult the Android community whether I need them to build Froyo or if there is some "other" thing I need instead.

---

### Post by plurga on 2013-12-29
as u say , this is a bug : 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gperf/+bug/955280](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gperf/+bug/955280)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-12-29
10.04 has reached end of life and hasn't been supported since April 2013. Try 12.04 LTS or a supported release as a VM and see if you have the same problem. 

There are possibly very good reasons it is not going to run in an unsupported release quite apart from a bug.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-12-29
What exactly are you trying to do? why do you think you need those packages? AFAIK they are related to building 32-bit binaries on a 64-bit system (multilib/multiarch) but you are already running a 32-bit system, so they won't exist

Also fyi the desktop version of 10.04 reached EOL in May 2013 - the only reason *any* 10.04 packages are available is to support the server release

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-12-29
If you have two almost identical questions please post them in the same thread.
Merged.

---

### Post by lambdafox on 2013-12-29
> **steeldriver said:**
> What exactly are you trying to do? why do you think you need those packages? AFAIK they are related to building 32-bit binaries on a 64-bit system (multilib/multiarch) but you are already running a 32-bit system, so they won't exist...

aha!  excellent info.  I am trying to compile Android Froyo.

On [this page]("http://source.android.com/source/initializing.html"), it lists the packages needing to be installed Ubuntu 10.04.  All of them installed fine except those I mentioned.

Since froyo will compile on a 32 bit system, maybe I need something instead of the 64-bit packages?

---

### Post by lambdafox on 2013-12-29
> **plurga said:**
> as u say , this is a bug : 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gperf/+bug/955280](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gperf/+bug/955280)

and if you scroll down to the bottom of the page you will see that a fix was supposedly released but I am still getting this error.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-12-29
... it says a fix released 2013-**07-29** but support (and updates) for 10.04 ended 2013-**05-09**

---

### Post by lambdafox on 2013-12-29
> **steeldriver said:**
> ... it says a fix released 2013-**07-29** but support (and updates) for 10.04 ended 2013-**05-09**

aha!  thank you.  i did not understand that package updates would be unavailable to the out of support OS...

ugh, if there is no way to do an in place upgrade to the OS, then I will lose a crapload of setup time...  isn't it lovely being a newbie...

do you have any idea if that is possible?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-12-29
> **lambdafox said:**
> I did not understand that package updates would be unavailable to the out of support OS.

That's exactly the definition of 'out of support'.

According to the bug reports it is fixed in gperf 3.0.3-2, which is included in Buntu 13.10. Seems like an error that it is not marked 'fix released' in Launchpad.

---

### Post by lambdafox on 2013-12-29
> **mörgæs said:**
> That's exactly the definition of 'out of support'.

According to the bug reports it is fixed in gperf 3.0.3-2, which is included in Buntu 13.10. Seems like an error that it is not marked 'fix released' in Launchpad.

I have been working most of the day updating my virtual machine to 12.04.  I had to re-uninstall apps I will not be using in the VM to keep it's size down.  Still working on this.

on the same vein, I would like to uninstall firefox and put lynx or elinks in as the default browser, but it seems that is not an option...

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2013-12-29
If I were you I would do it the other way around: install the modern, secure OS( Ubuntu 12.04) in the hard drive and run that insecure and obsolete OS (XP) as a  VM.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-12-29
You must have missed this:

> **Bucky Ball said:**
> 10.04 has reached end of life and hasn't been supported since April 2013. Try 12.04 LTS or a supported release as a VM and see if you have the same problem. 

There are possibly very good reasons it is not going to run in an unsupported release quite apart from a bug.

No support, no upgrades, including security, very little help because no-one uses it anymore. Just get rid of 10.04 LTS altogether and move on to the next LTS, 12.04 LTS. Period.

Support for LTS releases is now five years (12.04 = April 2017), for the interims it is nine months. LTS can upgrade to the next LTS, leapfrogging the interims in between.

---

### Post by lambdafox on 2013-12-30
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> You must have missed this...

and you must have missed this ;-)

> **lambdafox said:**
> I have been working most of the day updating  my virtual machine to 12.04.  I had to re-uninstall apps I will not be  using in the VM to keep it's size down.  Still working on this.

on the same vein, I would like to uninstall firefox and put lynx or  elinks in as the default browser, but it seems that is not an  option...

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-12-30
Correct. ;)

---

