---
title: "Uninstall Programs"
date: 2008-12-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by prenger745 on 2008-12-09
I have been using Ubuntu for about 9mths now.  One of the things I am finding hard to grasp is how to uninstall programs that were NOT installed with Synaptic.  For example, I have a program called Qnext installed.  When I search for it in Synaptic it doesn't show up.  It also doesn't show up in my Add/Remove programs.  So how exactly do I completely uninstall it? (and other such programs)

Thanks,
Dan

---

### Post by Duck2006 on 2008-12-09
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=269436](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=269436)

---

### Post by aheckler on 2008-12-09
In terminal:

```
sudo apt-get remove qnext
```

... or whatever the package name is.

---

### Post by prenger745 on 2008-12-09
How can I find out the package name?  Here is what I typed:

dmcgurk@dan:~/Programs/qnext$ sudo apt-get remove qnext
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Couldn't find package qnext
dmcgurk@dan:~/Programs/qnext$

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2008-12-09
How did you install it?

---

### Post by binbash on 2008-12-09
if you compiled them, you can go to the directory and give sudo make uninstall

---

### Post by nepmit on 2008-12-09
Don't know if you fixed your problem or not. Is the program Qnext or qnext. makes a difference.

---

### Post by Tatty on 2008-12-09
It all depends on how you installed it.  It is possible sometimes to get software added to synaptic, for easy uninstallation, depending on how it is installed.

It takes a little planning ahead.  So how did you install it?

---

### Post by prenger745 on 2008-12-09
Thanks for all the replies.  To be honest, I am not sure how I installed it.  It was a long time ago and I was just starting out with Ubuntu.  If I had to bet though, I installed it by following these instructions:

[http://www.qnext.com/download_linux.php](http://www.qnext.com/download_linux.php)


Also, I tried a few of the suggestions above and here is what I got:

dmcgurk@dan:~/Programs/qnext$ make remove
make: *** No rule to make target `remove'.  Stop.
dmcgurk@dan:~/Programs/qnext$ sudo make uninstall
make: *** No rule to make target `uninstall'.  Stop.


Not sure if this helps but in the directory, there is an uninstall.dat file.  Here is the contents of that file:

=========== Uninstaller Log please do not edit this file ===========

console.txt

jmf.properties

qnext.lock

user.keys

dictionaries

language

errors

jre*

lib\jmf

lib\jb

native


Thanks again,
Dan

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2008-12-09
According to the link you posted, you would simply delete the qnext folder to uninstall the program.

---

