---
title: "Nvidia Geforce 5200 issues"
date: 2008-08-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by icecloud on 2008-08-21
i have a 8.04 ubunto hardy heron system. 1.5gb of ram and plenty of hard drive space. my issue is that the driver for my vid card is restricted and i was wondering if there were any open source or one that is better than the current...i'm getting choppy streaming video and i know its not download or speed of internet or anything like that and before i came to ubunto i was running xp and had no problems....any ideas? thanx

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-08-21
WHich drivers did you use for your fx5200?  I have one and I have to run the 96.45.xx driver to have everrything work fine.  I used Envy-ng to load the driver since Ubuntu wanted to load the most current driver and it did not work correctly.

---

### Post by icecloud on 2008-08-21
i honestly dont know can you tell me how to verify the current driver version? and how would i install a older version to override my current (fairly new to this o/s only had it for 4 days but YAY so far it rox)

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-08-21
Load envy-ng:
> sudo aptitude install envy-gtk
run the program by entering:
> sudo envy-ng
Select to unload your current driver.
When done do not restart.
Select to do a manual install.
Select the middle driver from the list.
It should be 96.45.xx or something like that.
When done reboot your computer.
It will probably start in a low resolution.
You will need to modify your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.
I am including mine to give you an idea what to do.
> terminator@terminator-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Tue Mar  4 20:24:34 UTC 2008

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Tue Jan 22 19:53:46 PST 2008
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Delta"
    ModelName      "DE-570"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 120.0
    Option         "DPMS"
    Modeline       "1280x1024_65.00"  119.40  1280 1368 1504 1728  1024 1025 1028 1063  -HSync +Vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024_65 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection


---

### Post by icecloud on 2008-08-21
Section "Device"
Identifier "Videocard0"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
BoardName "GeForce FX 5200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Videocard0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
Option "TwinView" "0"
Option "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
Option "metamodes" "1280x1024_65 +0+0"
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
EndSubSection
EndSection


is that the part about the resolution? and shouldnt i just be able to go into screen resolution and choose it from there once i've done this?

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-08-21
Yes you should.

---

### Post by icecloud on 2008-08-21
cannot find sudo envy-ng
any other way to do this?

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-08-21
search in synaptic for the word envy.  It should then pop up some files and the two you want are envy-core and envy-gtk.  Once downloading those files go into terminal and run sudo envy-ng.

---

### Post by icecloud on 2008-08-21
i went into synaptics and installed core and gtk but now when i type sudo envy-ng it says command not found

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-08-21
Go to applications>system tools>envyng and try starting it that way.

---

### Post by icecloud on 2008-08-21
ok i installed 96.43.05 but now i cant even full screen the streams (which is where it gets choppy. is that the wrong type of driver...i only have 3 to choose from

---

### Post by djallalnamri on 2008-08-22
*hello this might not help
*but i have a gfx 5200 nvidia it almost made me give up ubuntu but yesterday people on the forum helped me so i downloaded and installed envyng which asked for nvidia-glx-legacy envy and i just follow instruction and let the computer did the job and now it is quite much better
*ubuntu is not that easy and even my favourite 3d app blender3d won't work !!!
*funny sometimes i find terminal and sometimes it disappear....
*a long long way from windows
*still i hope it help!!!!

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-08-22
You have the right driver all you need to do is use the xorg.conf I sent you earlier, but make the proper changes to your monitor section like horz and vert refresh.

---

### Post by icecloud on 2008-08-22
how do you open your xorg.conf file?

---

