---
title: "10.04 won't load; flashes through white screen and background image"
date: 2011-02-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jzt19 on 2011-02-08
Have got 10.04 netbook remix installed on a Dell Mini 9, shut it down then tried to start it up a few mins later and is now just cycling through the background image then white screen then background image with rectangle in top left with two arrows in. Have tried starting in recovery and seems to work ok in low graphics mode have tried resetting the graphics through the recovery menu but hasn't done anything. Any suggestions?
 
Thanks

---

### Post by NCLI on 2011-02-08
Try holding down "shift" while booting until GRUB appears, then press e, find the line with "quiet splash" in it, add "nomodeset" after that, then press ctrl+x to boot.

---

### Post by jzt19 on 2011-02-09
Thanks, that hasn't solved the problem though. I only have "quiet" in the list not "quiet splash" so I tried adding nomodeset after that but it is still doing the same things. 
 
Just realised the symbol in the top left of the screen when it is flashing is like a scroll up/down symbol.

---

### Post by jzt19 on 2011-02-09
An update as thinking about it I might know why this has happened. I run google chrome and it was complaining that my user profile wouldn't work so from [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1341721](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1341721) I tried typing the following into terminal:
 
rm -rf ~/.config/chromium/Default 
 
and as i edited the text to say chrome rather than chromium i pressed return by accident and so ran:
rm -rf ~/.config
 
which came up with an error saying something like ".config isn't empty and so cannot remove" so I presumed it hadn't done anything, could this cause the problems I am having?
 
I have mangaged to by disabling automatic login, to login but now the panel from the top of the screen is missing?
 
Any suggestions? Thanks

---

