---
title: ".tar.gz extraction and installation"
date: 2010-07-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by compsplic3r on 2010-07-06
Ok so... just downloaded unbuntu today so excuse my noobness. I am trying to install John the ripper and i download the file and extract it but cant run it i know you have to type some fancy code into the terminal which i tried tar xzvf john-1.7.6.tar.gz and got 
tar: john-1.7.6.tar.gz: Cannot open: No such file or directory
tar: Error is not recoverable: exiting now
tar: Child returned status 2
tar: Exiting with failure status due to previous errors
i also tried similar prefixes the website said to use to try and extract it and get the same message every time. also if someone would be so kind as to help me determine what exactly to put into  /whereprogramis/program sorta thing... thanks

---

### Post by k3lt01 on 2010-07-06
Double click on the file and Archive Manager will open, click extract and it will extract to the folder it is currently in. Once extracted open it and look for a file called readme or install and follow the instructions.

EDIT: I didn't know the program was in the repos sorry. It is always best to stick to the repo versions when you are just learning.

---

### Post by marshmallow1304 on 2010-07-06
The program to which you refer is available in the Ubuntu repositories.  To install, [click here]("apt://john") or install using Ubuntu Software Center or Synaptic Package Manager.  The package's name is "john".

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2010-07-06
Hi and welcome to the forums and Ubuntu!

John the Ripper is in the repositories. You can install it via Software Center, Synaptic Package Manager (System -> Administration) or the terminal:
```
sudo apt-get install john
```

Or click this apt-url link: [john]("apt://john").


[http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware](http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware)
[uhelp]community/InstallingSoftware[/uhelp]

---

