---
title: "8.04 Something just forgot how to read .svg files ?!?!"
date: 2009-01-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by thinking2loud on 2009-01-01
Something changed and now I get an error message when I power up that says that something can't understand the file format of /usr/share/gdm/themes/Human/bottom_bar.svg .  It's not the themes.  I have managed to trace this down to something has forgotten how to read .svg files in general.  Firefox can display them; Eye of Gnome can't.  (I believe Firefox has native support for SVG.)  Does anybody have any clues with regard to what I might need to install/reinstall?

---

### Post by Tim Sharitt on 2009-01-01
The exact error message you get on start-up may be help full in diagnosing the problem.
You may want to make sure you didn't acidentally remove a svg library, I think it would be librsvg2-common.

---

### Post by thinking2loud on 2009-01-01
error message:
There was an error loading the theme Human
Couldn't recognize the image file format '/usr/share/gdm/themes/Human/bottom_bar.svg'

I've been doing more searching.  I found about 4 threads where people have had this problem.  One was from Feisty.  They did work-arounds like taking the SVG files and making them other formats.  

Nobody ever solved it.

---

### Post by thinking2loud on 2009-01-01
reinstalling gtk2-engines-pixbuf and libgtk2.0-common doesn't fix it.

---

### Post by thinking2loud on 2009-01-02
Going to sourceforge and compiling from scratch (not Ubuntu with Synaptic Package Manager) and getting the latest [FONT="Courier New"]librsvg[/FONT] (2.22.3) fixed most of my problems.

I think this happened when I was trying to get some other software to work and I had to update some other gtk/gdk software to versions newer than the approved Ubuntu configuration-management version in order to compile.  I just never noticed because I don't reboot for days.

---

### Post by tyraen on 2009-09-04
I had the same problem, and I believe the same cause as thinking2loud. The same fix worked also. :) However, no themes show up in Appearance except for custom. They are still installed however, I've tried reinstalling them but no go.

---

### Post by tyraen on 2009-09-04
Just to note, when I copied a theme to my ~/.themes folder it appeared instantly. So something is making /usr/share/themes not work.

---

