---
title: "11.04 Which file to use?"
date: 2011-05-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-10
I downloaded some library files and when I tried to open them it said "There is no application installed for shared library files."
Which program should I use or open to read these?

thanks.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-10
Use the Synaptic package manager to search for and download files for easier integration, security and dependency resolution.
That said.....what did you download and where did you download it from?

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-11
> **jtarin said:**
> Use the Synaptic package manager to search for and download files for easier integration, security and dependency resolution.
That said.....what did you download and where did you download it from?

I used the Synaptic Package Manager to download these files. In fact all my files downloaded have always been Synaptic. One thing I don't care for is not knowing where these files are being downloaded to. I had to search for 2 hours to find them and going into /usr/bin only to find them.

Which still leaves me the question on what file to use to open these.

gumshoe

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2011-05-11
> **gumshoegrant said:**
> I used the Synaptic Package Manager to download these files. In fact all my files downloaded have always been Synaptic. One thing I don't care for is not knowing where these files are being downloaded to. I had to search for 2 hours to find them and going into /usr/bin only to find them.

Which still leaves me the question on what file to use to open these.

gumshoe

Why would you want to open them? They are binary files so would be complete gibberish.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-11
> **alphacrucis2 said:**
> Why would you want to open them? They are binary files so would be complete gibberish.

That shows how much I know!

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2011-05-11
> **gumshoegrant said:**
> That shows how much I know!

Stuff that goes in /usr/bin is normally a binary file containing machine code (ie binary instructions for the cpu). Library files on linux are similar to windows dll's. They are loaded and used by programs to carry out common tasks. It is possible to use a program called a disassembler to read such machine code binaries and convert them into a list of readable processor instruction codes in assembler format. This is sometimes done to reverse engineer binary code to find out what it actually does. Can be useful for debugging.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-11
Searching for things on your computer with Linux.
In a terminal enter ```
sudo updatedb
```let it run until finished. The first time will take a few minutes. This updates the database of all files on your computer. When it finishes running you can use the command in a terminal of ```
locate <filename>
```it will then bring up all instances of that filename. Too many names to see at once? You can use the command "locate" in conjunction with the commands less or more. (see manpages for less and more and locate). 2 hours will turn into 2 minutes or less.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-11
Thanks for the info. Have a good day.

---

