---
title: "14.04 Battery and RAM issues"
date: 2014-12-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by zyxancf on 2014-12-25
Hello everyone!. Recently I changed from windows to Ubuntu due to developing reasons and I've noticed something that had never happened before with previous Ubuntu distributions, first, the battery used to discharge in 3 hours (windows) and now it's just taking 1 hour and the RAM issue is something I don't get what's happening, I have 4gb and O.S is using 3 of them (?)
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/4PnsNxR.png[/IMG]

Since I'm new to Ubuntu (not linux, I'm used to CentOS) I'm kinda lost and can't follow the trace what's happening, if anyone could help it'd be AWESOME! <3 thanks in advance.

I also had some troubles with the wifi adapter but managed to solve them. Btw, Asus F552C is my PC.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-12-25
Hi, welcome to the fora.
For the memory issue please see this: [http://www.linuxatemyram.com/](http://www.linuxatemyram.com/)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-12-25
If you add up the percentage of memory used by the running processes listed you will see that it totals 35.2% memory. And if you look further you will see that 31.6% percent of memory is used by Chrome with only 3.6% of memory being used by OS related processes. So, it is not Ubuntu that is claiming all that memory, is it?

Regards.

---

### Post by zyxancf on 2014-12-25
Without chrome it goes to 2.9GB...which is still pretty high :/

---

### Post by zyxancf on 2014-12-25
Thanks for the forum mörgæs

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-12-26
top is a a bit hard for new users to understand. Use free command. The number I drew the arrow to is your free RAM. See link mörgæs gave fro more technical info
```
$ free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          3959       3702        256          9        565       1937
-/+ buffers/cache:       1199       2759  <---------
Swap:         3814         24       3790
```

---

