---
title: "10.04 LTS: 32-bit? 64-bit? Which to choose &amp; why?"
date: 2011-07-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by scruffyeagle on 2011-07-26
I'm new to Ubuntu. I decided to begin w/ the most stable version, so chose 10.04 LTS. I purchased an Ubuntu v10.04 LTS CD thru eBay, used it a few times, and have concluded it's damaged in a way that corrupts AT SPI. I've gone to the Kubuntu site and read quite a bit from their forums, and decided that I'll stick w/ Ubuntu. I've dl'd both 32-bit & 64-bit ISO's from Ubuntu site, but now I need to choose which to proceed with. I have 2 portables that need OS's: A Toshiba Satellite A205, & a Dell Inspiron 9400. Neither has more than 3 GB RAM, but both have Intel dual core processors. Both have Ethernet plus internal modems. Both managed to surf web after installations from the damaged(?) CD. The Toshiba is intended to be my 84-yr-old mother's machine, and the Dell intended to be for myself. (This might change if I get the Dell's modem functional but not the Toshiba's. I have cable broadband, but she'll need dial-up.)

So, what I really need to know, is should I proceed installing the 32-bit version, or the 64-bit? And most importantly, I'd like to know WHY.

Thanks in advance, for any guidance you can give me re. this.

---

### Post by androssofer on 2011-07-26
i'd go 32 bit, its better with drivers etc so is slightly more stable and because your comps only have 3gb of ram, 64 needs 4gb or more to get any benefits... (mightn't be 100% accurate)

64 bit is probably a tad faster and more future proof, but there isnt much in it. and with new versions out every 6 months u can upgrade for free and not miss out... once u get 4gb of ram upward, switch to 64 :-)

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-07-26
if you have a 64 bit processor you can use 64 bit. otherwise you will have to use 32bit.
 
why walk when you can run? :-P

---

### Post by Matt__ on 2011-07-26
32 bit is the easy way to go, but 64 is faster (even with 3Gb RAM)  at things like audio/video encoding, image manipulation and even flash  in a browser window or file transfers.

It used to be the case that 64bit was much buggier (flash/java etc) but these issues seem to have been resolved.

To  be honest, unless you are carrying out a lot of processor intensive  tasks, it wont matter which you choose. From the specs I see online both  machines will run well with either, though my personal choice would be 64(why not use it if you got it).

[Phoronix 64/32/pae benchmarks]("http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_32_pae&num=1")

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2011-07-26
Do you know which CPU do you have? If you don't know, use Google and search for it.
Each CPU has a specific model so try to read your manual to find out what's the full name/model of your CPU.

Then ...
> **mastablasta said:**
> if you have a 64 bit processor you can use 64 bit. otherwise you will have to use 32bit.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2011-07-26
If you want tons of perspective on the issue a search of the forums will provide literally hundreds of hits on this exact issue. You can read many people's thoughts and as the threads age you can see more and more positive discussion regarding 64 bit up to what feels to me on my equipment like full compatibility and functionality versus 32 bit (meaning there are really no differences I have personally encountered).

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2011-07-26
only reason to use 32bit when you have a 64bit processor is if it is a laptop (longer battery life)
i have been using 64bit 10.04 since it came out

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-07-26
For a new user I'd actually recommend the latest Ubuntu, which is 11.04. Use 32-bit or 64-bit, it doesn't really matter with 3 GiB of RAM.

Ubuntu 10.04 isn't necessarily more bug-free, it's just got "stable software" which means that there have been no major new versions of its software since early 2010. That's pretty old for Linux. With Ubuntu 11.04 you get a lot newer software available.

---

### Post by scruffyeagle on 2011-07-27
Thanks for the replies! Having read through them all 2 or 3 times, I find myself leaning toward the 32 bit OS. Googling, I discovered there were at least 3 variants of Toshiba Satellite tagged "A205" w/ a suffix appended. So, I'll need to do more research re. the specs of the exact models I have, before finalizing my decision. However, beyond that, I know there definitely will be driver issues I'll need to overcome in order to get at least one of the 2 portables capable of using a dial-up modem. Which makes stability & variety of drivers available major considerations. I know both machines have Intel dual-core processors, but I'll need to dig in to discover exactly which model(s). My brief googling suggests to me that neither of these machines can accomodate more than 4 GB RAM - in which case, speed advantage of 64 bit OS might not be much at all.

Thanks!

---

### Post by kaldor on 2011-07-27
> **Matt__ said:**
> It used to be the case that 64bit was much buggier (flash/java etc) but these issues seem to have been resolved.

Agreed. 0 issues with 64bit here.

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2011-07-27
> **scruffyeagle said:**
> Thanks for the replies! Having read through them all 2 or 3 times, I find myself leaning toward the 32 bit OS. Googling, I discovered there were at least 3 variants of Toshiba Satellite tagged "A205" w/ a suffix appended. So, I'll need to do more research re. the specs of the exact models I have, before finalizing my decision. However, beyond that, I know there definitely will be driver issues I'll need to overcome in order to get at least one of the 2 portables capable of using a dial-up modem. Which makes stability & variety of drivers available major considerations. I know both machines have Intel dual-core processors, but I'll need to dig in to discover exactly which model(s). My brief googling suggests to me that neither of these machines can accomodate more than 4 GB RAM - in which case, speed advantage of 64 bit OS might not be much at all.

Thanks!

The exact model must be written somewhere ... do you still have the box of your laptop? manuals maybe?
Some BIOS (I guess?) include the model of the hardware installed in that machine. Check your BIOS, you won't lose anything :)

Good luck and keep searching :)

For Ubuntu Related Search please use: [http://www.googlubuntu.com/](http://www.googlubuntu.com/)

---

### Post by gigenieks on 2011-07-27
[QUOTE=scruffyeagle]
I've gone to the Kubuntu site and read quite a bit from their forums, and decided that I'll stick w/ Ubuntu.
[/QUOTE]
"Kubuntu site"? 
**What exactly** you red that make you conclue "Kubuntu is not as good as Ubuntu" ? :confused:
(Just don't like when someone gives bad impression about something he don't have a clue... Or at least tried (in this case Kubuntu))


> 
So, what I really need to know, is should I proceed installing the 32-bit version, or the 64-bit? And most importantly, I'd like to know WHY.

[COLOR="Sienna"]**_You should have_**[/COLOR] first read some basic rules / ethics / suggestions before posting.  [-X:frown:
Like:
[LIST]
[*][Absoulute Beginner forums - Guidelines]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422475")
[*][Ubuntu Forums CoC]("http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy")
[/LIST]
> 
2.Use the forum search first. [COLOR="purple"]**Most problems have happened to at least one other person before, and have already been discussed**[/COLOR] in an existing thread. If you can find your solution this way, it will be much faster than waiting on someone else. The search box can be found in the upper-righthand corner of the page.

> 
[SIZE="3"]**Section II - Posting Tips:**[/SIZE]

When asking for technical support:

1.[COLOR="Purple"]**Search for posts on the same topic before posting**[/COLOR] a new question. Sometimes using Google to search the forums works better than our own search function. You can do so by entering your search in the Google search bar followed by site:ubuntuforums.org.


TBABiII put it more concrete -->

[QUOTE=TBABill]
If you want tons of perspective on the issue a search of the forums will provide literally hundreds of hits on this exact issue. You can read many people's thoughts and as the threads age you can see more and more positive discussion regarding 64 bit up to what feels to me on my equipment like full compatibility and functionality versus 32 bit (meaning there are really no differences I have personally encountered).
[/QUOTE]


> 
However, beyond that, I know there definitely will be driver issues I'll need to overcome in order to get at least one of the 2 portables capable of using a dial-up modem.

Yes [Ubuntu documentation:]("https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/switching/C/preparing-hardware.html")

> 
[CENTER]**Problematic devices**[/CENTER]

Certain types of device are [COLOR="DarkRed"]poorly supported by Ubuntu[/COLOR] for various reasons. If you have such a device, it may be difficult or impossible to get it to work under Ubuntu. Below is a list of some poorly-supported device types:

[LIST]
[*]Software dial-up modems
[*]Some USB broadband modems
[*]Scanners
[/LIST]

While a considerable number of the devices of the types listed above are unsupported, there will generally be _at least a few devices_ available which are supported.


About 32bit vs. 64bit --->

[[SIZE="3"][COLOR="Navy"]READ THIS[/COLOR][/SIZE]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11073878&postcount=1") and you will find out what suits best you (32bit / 64bit)

My conclusions in link above:
> 
[COLOR="DarkRed"]**_I concluded 3 things:_**[/COLOR]
[LIST=1]
[*]If you have 64bit CPU, you should use 64bit OS to utilize full power of your processor. 
[*]64bit OS "generally" is slight faster (not really noticable) 
[*]RAM:
[LIST]
[*]1GB - minimum (?)
[*]2GB - excellent for "average user"
[*]3GB or more - only good if you use computing demanding task (for example video / photo editing) othervise it is "mostly unused RAM")
[/LIST]
[/LIST]



Now when I have installed Kubuntu 11.04 64bit I can add some things.
I have only 1GB RAM and everything works fine in terms of performance (I havent even enabled video cards drivers yet!!) Kubuntu use from 400-700MB RAM, so all is fine. 

My opinion on the matter is -->
If you have 64bit CPU and you have at least 1GB (2GB = ideal) RAM go for 64bit (K)Ubuntu.

[Did you check Ubuntu documentation?]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/32bit_and_64bit")
> 
**Unless you have specific reasons** to choose 32-bit, we recommend 64-bit to utilise the full capacity of your hardware.


---

### Post by scruffyeagle on 2011-07-31
> **gigenieks said:**
> "Kubuntu site"? 
**What exactly** you red that make you conclue "Kubuntu is not as good as Ubuntu" ? :confused:
(Just don't like when someone gives bad impression about something he don't have a clue... Or at least tried (in this case Kubuntu))



[COLOR="Sienna"]**_You should have_**[/COLOR] first read some basic rules / ethics / suggestions before posting.  [-X:frown:
Like:
[LIST]
[*][Absoulute Beginner forums - Guidelines]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422475")
[*][Ubuntu Forums CoC]("http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy")
[/LIST]



Please focus your thoughts better. You posted a quote of what I'd written, and immediately afterward misquote it in your comment. I don't need your creative assistance to make a bad reputation for me here. I'm perfectly capable of doing that all by myself, without your help - IF I so choose. I wrote exactly what I meant. I wrote "I've gone to the Kubuntu site and read quite a bit from their forums, and decided that I'll stick with Ubuntu." The phrase "not as good as" were YOUR words, NOT mine.

And yes, I did search the forums using the "Search" box at top right of the page before posting. I tried several search terms, and there were many results for each of them, but none of the titles seemed to focus down on the issue of 32-bit vs. 64-bit.

Now that I've defended myself, my crippled infant reputation, and the world in general, I'll add this: The reason I wrote that I'd decided on Ubuntu instead of Kubuntu, was because I'd found several place in the Kubuntu forums where people were discussing "bleeding edge" software. And no, don't ask me for precise quotes or locations. I was reading quickly, skimming from thread to thread, and forum to forum. I read a LOT. I was seeking an overview, and a general tenor, not details. What swayed my decision was the fact that I was seeking stability as my primary goal, and new software lacks a history of testing & debugging as a general rule.

I've had troubles with the Ubuntu v10.04 LTS 32-bit installations I've done so far. I've used 2 different installation/live disks on 3 different machines - and always end up sooner or later looking at a message box during shutdown saying "AT SPI not responding" (sometimes, this includes the word "registry"). The only thing I can think of, that I might be doing that isn't commonplace, is that I always change the mouse to left handed as my 1st tweak of the settings. I've become convinced this AT SPI thing is a big, nasty bug - but, I don't know yet how to file bug reports. Sooner or later, I'll figure out how, but it hasn't happened yet.

Given that I always end up with this problem using v10.04 LTS 32-bit, I wonder if there isn't some logic in trying the 64-bit version. (You do make a strong case for that.) This Toshiba Satellite A205 only has 1 MB of memory, despite having the Intel dual-core processors. So, there probably wouldn't be much of a speed difference - but, the 64-bit code might be just the ticket I need to get around this problem? I'm thinking that it's worth trying. And, perhaps, if that still ends up w/ AT SPI failure, then my next best option would probably to try the latest & greatest (v11.04).

As a final note, I'll add this: I'm leaning heavily toward making my next installation attempt be the Kubuntu v10.04 LTS 64-bit. The underlying OS is basically the same beneath both Ubuntu & Kubuntu, and I'm virtually guaranteed to do extra download to gain the Gnome desktop shortly thereafter - but, I really like that beautiful blue of the Kubuntu start up screen. I just like blue better than purple!

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-07-31
> **androssofer said:**
> i'd go 32 bit, its better with drivers etc so is slightly more stable

Nope, driver support is identical to 32-bit, as is stability.

> 
and because your comps only have 3gb of ram, 64 needs 4gb or more to get any benefits... (mightn't be 100% accurate)

I'd say maybe 10% accurate ;)

64-bit is faster than 32-bit no matter how much RAM you have. However, 64-bit is able to address larger amounts of RAM more efficiently than 32-bit, as it doesn't have to resort to using the PAE kernel (which is a bit of a kludge).

> 
64 bit is probably a tad faster and more future proof, but there isnt much in it. and with new versions out every 6 months u can upgrade for free and not miss out... once u get 4gb of ram upward, switch to 64 :-)

This is true though. The difference isn't massive, but I'd say that if you ever do anything like re-encoding a video then 64-bit is definitely the way to go, as you'll see a large speed increase.

---

### Post by scruffyeagle on 2011-07-31
I think as far as the 2 Dell machines I have on hand (tower & laptop) go, the 32 vs. 64 question has become moot. I tried in each of those, to verify the files on a Kubuntu v10.04 LTS 64-bit disk, and neither would do it. The process locked up right away, and posted the message "This kernel requires an x86-64 CPU. Unable to boot - please use a kernel appropriate for your CPU." I haven't tested verifying the CD using the Toshiba Satellite, but I expect the result will be the same since both the Dell laptop & the Toshiba use the Intel dual-core processors.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-07-31
> **scruffyeagle said:**
> I haven't tested verifying the CD using the Toshiba Satellite, but I expect the result will be the same since both the Dell laptop & the Toshiba use the Intel dual-core processors.

Depends, all the Core 2 Duos were 64-bit. A non-Atom dual-core Intel chip that was 32-bit only would be a fairly rare animal these days (some of the later Pentiums maybe?).

---

### Post by weasel fierce on 2011-07-31
Been running 64 bit for the past 2 years or so, and haven't any a concern at all.

---

### Post by Bapun007 on 2011-07-31
if your hardware supports 64 bit , then use that .

---

