---
title: "ATI with ubuntu?"
date: 2009-07-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ltwinner on 2009-07-26
I have the opportunity to buy a desktop with an Radeon HD4870 gfx card at great price. However after reading this article I'm not too sure I should go for it -
[http://tech.shantanugoel.com/2009/05/04/ubuntu-904-jaunty-jackalope-upgrade-graphics-problem.html](http://tech.shantanugoel.com/2009/05/04/ubuntu-904-jaunty-jackalope-upgrade-graphics-problem.html)

Do these problems still exist? Is it pointless to buy an ATI machine if you are running ubuntu?

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-07-26
It's a bit spendy to buy a new computer, so I won't recommend yes or no on the purchase.

But the article was talking about older ATI cards.

My brand new machine has an integrated ATI card.  Granted, I run ATI's Catalyst driver. But I have had no problems whatsoever with Compiz, 3D acceleration, video or any of that.

Your mileage may vary, which is why I won't recommend a big purchase.  But just for what it's worth...

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2009-07-26
If you intend to stick with linux, stay away from ati: even if it doesn't give you trouble now, it probably will in the future.

---

### Post by kellemes on 2009-07-26
Opensource-drivers with my X1650 working fine for me..
Compiz and other 3d-stuff is just blazing fast.

---

### Post by halitech on 2009-07-26
I just rebuilt a system (P4 1.8  ) with an ATI Radeon 9600 and it works fine with the ATI drivers up to 8.10 but no drivers for 9.04. My main system has a built-in x1200 that works up to Debian Lenny with the ATI drivers but not beyond that. ATI seems to have a very short support cycle for their cards compared to Nvidia so unless you want to upgrade your card every 6 months, go Nvidia.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-07-26
> **TeoBigusGeekus said:**
> If you intend to stick with linux, stay away from ati: even if it doesn't give you trouble now, it probably will in the future.

Not entirely sure about that.  This is in the "it used to be that way" category of assumptions that may no longer be true.

ATI started pumping a lot of resources into Linux drivers in late 2007.  It is true that support for older cards was discontinued in fglrx and it is also true that many ATI cards stopped working satisfactorily in the latest X.

The latter is not the fault of ATI, but a changed condition they will now have to react to.

But starting with Catalyst 9.4, you do get good performance in the latest ATI cards.

The situation is not that ATI is moving away from Linux.  The situation is that they stumbled and are now catching back up -- and they'd better get moving.

The problem for the OP is wondering whether they have caught back up enough right now.

I'm not an ATI evangelist.  I'd prefer to use nVidia right now because of their more feature-rich drivers.  But that doesn't mean ATI is going the way of the dinosaurs.

---

### Post by Ji Ruo on 2009-07-26
> **kellemes said:**
> Opensource-drivers with my X1650 working fine for me..
Compiz and other 3d-stuff is just blazing fast.

Any chance you could post your configuration file as an attachment? I have an X1650Pro but haven't got 3d working yet.

---

### Post by kellemes on 2009-07-26
> **Ji Ruo said:**
> Any chance you could post your configuration file as an attachment? I have an X1650Pro but haven't got 3d working yet.

Not much of a configuration file to see these days..
Actually, it worked out of the box, had to do nothing to get it working, it just did.
Fact is, I use the open source driver.. info here..
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver")

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by markharding557 on 2009-07-26
i have had no probs on my ati4650 just don't get one of the older x**** series they will not work on jaunty

---

### Post by ltwinner on 2009-07-26
ok so the older ati cards are no good with ubuntu 9.04 but if you have one of the latest ones such as a HD4870 there are no problems and you will have full 3d accerlation, 3d desktop, etc... 

Have I got that right, cos if so Im gonna buy this pc tomorrow.

---

### Post by ssri on 2009-07-26
> **Ji Ruo said:**
> Any chance you could post your configuration file as an attachment? I have an X1650Pro but haven't got 3d working yet.

Most likely he has basic 3D up and running, as the opensource drivers do not support OpenGL 2.0 (GLSL shaders) yet and they won't until next summer, and that's being optimistic.

---

### Post by admiralspark on 2009-07-26
I believe that's the general consensus. 

Heck, my now nearly 4 year old Compaq that I'm using to type this reply is operating on an ATI Radeon integrated chip, it has had zero graphics problems so far (heck, my computer has only needed a harddrive in the past 4 years, and it still outperforms newer machines...2.0 Sempron). I would be willing to bet that newer cards will work, plus the fact that any company like ATI would be more willing to develop drivers for their newer cards still being produced (they gain no profit if you buy a used card, and so to gain the market they need to support the new cards). Am I right in saying this?

Let us know how it works!

---

### Post by Ji Ruo on 2009-07-27
> **kellemes said:**
> Not much of a configuration file to see these days..
Actually, it worked out of the box, had to do nothing to get it working, it just did.
Fact is, I use the open source driver.. info here..
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver) 

Thanks. I'm using the open source driver as well, and thought I might have to modify the file to get any 3d working. It's either my settings or some problem with the obscure card I've bought (manufacturer is some dodgy HK company called Amaze).

Sorry for being off topic!

---

### Post by Ji Ruo on 2009-07-27
The situation with ATI as I understand it, and elaborating on what others have said, is that they have changed the way they implement their support for linux recently. New cards will be supported by a restricted driver for 2 years. After that, you will either have to not upgrade your distro or switch to the open source drivers that are now being developed to use the features on your card. These open source drivers have not been around for very long (due to ATI's previous policy) so there hasn't been much time to get features working. In a couple of years, hopefully there will have been more development and they will be better supported. So, generally speaking a new ATI is probably going to be ok, but it is not as safe a bet as an Nvidia.

---

### Post by binbash on 2009-07-27
Go for Nvidia

---

