---
title: "12.04 LTS Ubuntu drops DSL internet and can't connect with wi-fi-72 year old senior"
date: 2014-03-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lrayetal on 2014-03-07
I just read several similar threads about losing internet connections problem with Ubuntu, but being 72 years old I don't have a clue what anyone is talking about with "sudo this" and "sudo that" and typing all of this stuff from the terminal. I just learned where the terminal is, but don't know how to use it. I did finally stay on line long enough to do the updates as I read is important.

I have a Dell Inspiron 6000 laptop that worked great with WinXP on wi-fi and a ethernet cable from my router. I decided to try to install Ubuntu 12.04 on this laptop and maybe learn a little about why so many people rave about Ubuntu. Well I can not connect with wi-fi and only for a few minutes with ethernet before the internet is dropped. The internet connection light will flicker on and off briefly.

Is Ubuntu supposed to be this difficult to just connect to the internet? Is there a senior out there or someone with a lot of patience who can explain in simple terms what I can do to connect this pc to the internet? I wanted a dedicated laptop for Ubuntu and don't want to do a Wubi type install of Ubuntu.

 Thank you for any support.

---

### Post by greengeek2 on 2014-03-07
Hello Irayetal!

I'm new to Linux/Ubuntu like you. Let me share what I have learned so far.

If you have an old pc/laptop and want to install Linux and you want Ubuntu, try Lubuntu 13.10 ([http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lubuntu](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lubuntu) and [http://lubuntu.net/](http://lubuntu.net/)). Ubuntu is for newer and more powerful computers.

I installed Lubuntu 13.10 on a Dell Inspiron 1501 (circa 2007) and one of my issues was the wifi driver. I have other issues I'm trying to work out but at least I can access the internet via ethernet and wireless.

This is where I solved my internet/wireless issue:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1997880](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1997880)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1997880&page=7](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1997880&page=7) (<- I asked my question here.)

BTW, I'm not a senior :)

Good luck!

Edit: Try pressing FN and F2 keys to see if wi-fi lights up.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-03-07
Just in case you have not noticed, you did not become brain dead at year 60. :) Some people complain that Ubuntu is too complicated for their granny to use. Which is an insult to older people.

Often the drivers for wireless are set up during installation. Some times it does not happen and we have to install a wireless driver. You need to find a utility called Additional Drivers.

Click on the Ubuntu icon in the top left corner and search for Additional Drivers. Or hold the Windows key (called super in Linux) and tap the A key. That will open the Dash in its Applications lens or super scope. You can click Installed - See xx more results and look for Additional Drivers. That utility may find a wireless driver for you.

I am assuming that you have tried to connect to your wireless router by clicking on the network icon (two arrows going in opposite directions). Do you see and WiFi networks in range? Is you network among them. We need to establish if your wireless adapter is recognised by Ubuntu.

See how you go for now.

Oh, there is something else. Are you dual booting this laptop with XP or does it only have Ubuntu on it? I ask because with laptops if the wireless adapter is switched off in Windows then Ubuntu is not able to switch it on. Windows has to be shut down with the wireless adapter working. Also, with laptops there is often a key combination that switches the wireless adapter off and on.

We can over-ride some of this stuff but that means using the terminal. 

Regards.

---

### Post by Robert Neuron on 2014-03-08
I have a DSL connection problem too with 12.04. The only solution I have found is to go to "recovery mode". When your machine starts up, wait until you have a black screen with a blinking white line in the upper left corner. Then press and hold the key "F12" for a second or two. In a few seconds, the "recovery" screen should appear, be patient. You will find a list of choices. Using the "down" arrow on your keyboard to go to "networking". Press "enter" for that. New screens will appear and each time press "enter". You will get back to your sign-in code. Put in your code, "enter" and again be patient as it starts. With any luck, you will have your connection. If it doesn't work the first time, shut down and repeat the procedure. If that doesn't work, your problem is different than mine. Good Luck.

---

### Post by NM5TF on 2014-03-08
> **lrayetal said:**
> I just read several similar threads about losing internet connections problem with Ubuntu, but being 72 years old I don't have a clue what anyone is talking about with "sudo this" and "sudo that" and typing all of this stuff from the terminal. I just learned where the terminal is, but don't know how to use it. I did finally stay on line long enough to do the updates as I read is important.

I have a Dell Inspiron 6000 laptop that worked great with WinXP on wi-fi and a ethernet cable from my router. I decided to try to install Ubuntu 12.04 on this laptop and maybe learn a little about why so many people rave about Ubuntu. Well I can not connect with wi-fi and only for a few minutes with ethernet before the internet is dropped. The internet connection light will flicker on and off briefly.

Is Ubuntu supposed to be this difficult to just connect to the internet? Is there a senior out there or someone with a lot of patience who can explain in simple terms what I can do to connect this pc to the internet? I wanted a dedicated laptop for Ubuntu and don't want to do a Wubi type install of Ubuntu.

 Thank you for any support.

Hello @lrayetal......take a deep breath & relax...we are here to help 8-)

I am also a Senior guy, tho only 70 years old :wink:

my Wife also has a Dell Inspiron 6000 laptop...did NOT have any wifi problems after
install Ubuntu 12.04.4 LTS....

did you install Ubuntu alongside Win XP in a dual boot...or is Ubuntu the ***only*** OS
on this laptop ???

first do this to identify what network card is installed in your laptop...

open a terminal by holding down  CTRL +ALT keys then tap T key....

copy & paste the following code into the terminal

```
nm-tool
``` then hit enter...

that will give you a list that looks similar to mine below:

```
tommy3@tommy3-Inspiron-531s:~$ nm-tool

NetworkManager Tool

State: connected (global)

- Device: wlan0  [frost] -------------------------------------------------------
  Type:              802.11 WiFi
  Driver:            rtl8192cu
  State:             connected
  Default:           yes
  HW Address:        80:1F:02:B6:D2:CE

  Capabilities:
    Speed:           72 Mb/s

  Wireless Properties
    WEP Encryption:  yes
    WPA Encryption:  yes
    WPA2 Encryption: yes

  Wireless Access Points (* = current AP)
    *frost:          Infra, 00:04:ED:CA:7A:6D, Freq 2412 MHz, Rate 8 Mb/s, Strength 100 WPA

  IPv4 Settings:
    Address:         192.168.1.100
    Prefix:          24 (255.255.255.0)
    Gateway:         192.168.1.254

    DNS:             192.168.1.254

```

post the results in your reply using  the code tag # in the menu above....copy & paste results
between the #'s...

this will tell us the driver version & if the card is even enabled + lots of other information...

we can then proceed to help get it working..\\:D/

---

### Post by lrayetal on 2014-03-12
Sorry for not replying sooner, but have been down with asthma.

Below is what my nm-tool terminal command gives me:

NetworkManager Tool 


State: connected (global) 


- Device: eth0  [Wired connection 1] ------------------------------------------- 
  Type:              Wired 
  Driver:            b44 
  State:             connected 
  Default:           yes 
  HW Address:        00:14:22:DA:63:1C 


  Capabilities: 
    Carrier Detect:  yes 
    Speed:           100 Mb/s 


  Wired Properties 
    Carrier:         on 


  IPv4 Settings: 
    Address:         192.168.0.108 
    Prefix:          24 (255.255.255.0) 
    Gateway:         192.168.0.1 


    DNS:             192.168.1.254 




lray@phubuntu:~$ 

It doesn't seem to give as much data as yours did.

I'm not sure how to reply here, but I want to answer a couple of other questions you kind gentlemen asked.

Yes, I installed 12.04 LTS over WinXP from an ISO disc and did not dual boot.

This Dell Inspiron 6000 was connected by wi-fi when I shut it down. I knew Windows XP was not being supported soon and thought I could use the 6000 
Inspiron to learn a little ubuntu. And I selected the 12.04 LTS as I would have longer to learn stuff about it.

I have it connected by ethernet from my router and when Ubuntu first boots the wi-fi light will stay on for a minute or two, the wi-fi light flickers a little and then goes out. I did finally get time in one instance to do the updates in the upper right menu. But I am losing my wired connection so quickly now that I can't try running the "Other Drivers."

Pressing the FN and F2 keys will give the wi-fi light just a flicker, but it will not stay on.

I do not see my wi-fi or network when I press the up/down keys in wireless. It is all blank with no networks visible.

I apologize but I don't see or understand which code and in which menu I should have entered for this reply. Forgive me for not knowing better.
It is awesome that you all know all of this command terminology.

My profound thanks to all of you who replied to my plea for help. I hope everyone who replied can see this post as i don't know how to reply to all in this forum. I thought I was doing good to find the thread for "Absolute Beginners."

---

### Post by Ubi_one_2014 on 2014-03-12
> **lrayetal said:**
> I just read several similar threads about losing internet connections problem with Ubuntu, but being 72 years old I don't have a clue what anyone is talking about with "sudo this" and "sudo that" and typing all of this stuff from the terminal. I just learned where the terminal is, but don't know how to use it. I did finally stay on line long enough to do the updates as I read is important.

I have a Dell Inspiron 6000 laptop that worked great with WinXP on wi-fi and a ethernet cable from my router. I decided to try to install Ubuntu 12.04 on this laptop and maybe learn a little about why so many people rave about Ubuntu. Well I can not connect with wi-fi and only for a few minutes with ethernet before the internet is dropped. The internet connection light will flicker on and off briefly.

Is Ubuntu supposed to be this difficult to just connect to the internet? Is there a senior out there or someone with a lot of patience who can explain in simple terms what I can do to connect this pc to the internet? I wanted a dedicated laptop for Ubuntu and don't want to do a Wubi type install of Ubuntu.

 Thank you for any support.

Dell  should supply linux supported hardware.
I own a dell studio laptop, and all hw is completely supported, bluetooth/wireless, etc.

can you try a live cd/dvd, and boot from that, to determine if your internet is stable?

ps: your learning curve is not subjected to a ubuntu version

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-03-12
> **Ubi_one_2014 said:**
> Dell  should supply linux supported hardware.
Unfortunately, they mostly don't and actually they can't. Because the software and driver development is not in their hands, they simply can't control it.

@lrayetal sir,

I'm not very senior in any way, but I believe patience is not a problem for me. And I happen to have some useful knowledge about network cards and related troubleshooting. I hope I may be able to help.

To be able to advise what may be wrong and what may help, I, or anybody else would need a little more information. Some of our forum's great members have designed a script that can collect most of the helpful information in one go, and put it in a text file which you can easily copy-paste or attach here.

Please follow the "**Wireless Script**" link in my signature below. It will lead you to a post that contains instructions on how to download that script and how to run it.

Once you have successfully run the script, it will create a report file named "**wireless-info.txt**" or "**wireless-info.tar.gz**". Attach this file, or copy-paste its contents here in your next post. It should give us all the information required to determine the problem, and offer a solution for it.

Let me know if you have problems in following the instructions to run the script or posting the report it generates.

Oh, and if copy-pasting the contents here instead of attaching the file, please use '**Code**' tags to preserve its formatting. Please follow the "**Using Code Tags**" link in my signature to see a quick guide with screenshots on using Code tags.

---

### Post by lrayetal on 2014-03-12
```

lray@phubuntu:~$ wget -N -t 5 -T 10 http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script && chmod +x wireless_script && ./wireless_script 
--2014-03-12 09:33:28--  http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script 
Resolving dl.dropbox.com (dl.dropbox.com)... failed: Name or service not known. 
wget: unable to resolve host address `dl.dropbox.com' 
lray@phubuntu:~$ 

```

That isn't much info at all, Varun. Did I error in my typing of the script? Typing in the terminal is Greek to me, and I have been trying to read a little about
how to move about, type, in the terminal, but haven't learned much yet.

Did I enter the code correctly this time?

I sincerely thank you for your time and effort as the rest of you for your advice. I feel very helpless and am beginning to think
I made a mistake taking on unbunt.

Should I try booting from my Live DVD again as another kind member suggested?

I should tell you all that I did a reinstall of my 12.04 LTS DVD once after not connecting with the internet in hoping that would resolve my
connection problems. But it didn't help with my wired or wireless connection.

Lrayetal

---

### Post by NM5TF on 2014-03-12
if you just copy & paste the code into terminal, you won't have to worry about making any typo's..

works the same as it does in Windows....hold down left mouse button & drag over the code to be
copied until it is highlighted....then use right button to get drop down menu....select copy....

go to terminal & paste code in by using right button...select paste.....hit enter to run code...

your reply message suggests that you are not connected to the internet at that time...try it again
using this code...

```
wget -N -t 5 -T 10 http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script && chmod +x wireless_script && ./wireless_script
```

good luck...we will get this to work !!!

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-03-12
The error you got suggests that your DNS was not working properly when you ran the command. Either that, or maybe you were disconnected or the connection froze while you tried.

I have attached the script below. Please download it and copy it to your Ubuntu Desktop.

Once copied (on you Ubuntu Desktop), right-click it > click "Extract here"

This will extract the script (wireless_script) on the desktop. Assuming you have Ubuntu 12.04, just double-click the script which will open a dialogue box with options like "Run", "Run in terminal" etc.. Click the "Run" button.

It will ask for password, type in your login password. It will create a file named "wireless-info.txt" or "wireless-info.tar.gz" on your desktop. Attach this file in your next post here.

You are not the first one who had problems with running it or understanding what to post back, unfortunately, so far we haven't found a promising way to make it any easier, so we rely on mutual communication when (if) someone has problem with it.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2014-03-12
> **lrayetal said:**
> I feel very helpless and am beginning to think
I made a mistake taking on unbunt.

Should I try booting from my Live DVD again as another kind member suggested?Hang in with us. FWIW, I'll be 83 next Monday and have spent most of my working life translating Geekese into ordinary language for the rest of us, so don't hesitate to tell us when we say something that simply doesn't mean anything to you. With patience, we'll get you on line.

For replaing XP on an older machine, I would definitely recommend that you download the ISO file for Xubuntu rather than Ubuntu. They are the same behind the scenes, but Xubuntu has selected programs that don't take up so much of your memory and is built specifically for older machines. Nevertheless, since any of the ISO files will be huge and may take an hour or more to download, don't make any changes until we have your system able to stay connected (we say "on line" to mean the same thing) until you explicitly tell it to disconnect.

The live DVD that you already have should include a menu that appears when you first turn on the power, or shortly thereafter, that includes several options. One of those should be "Try without installing" or words to that effect. Select that one while we're trying to get your actual installed system working properly; that will guarantee that any configuration errors that might have crept into your installed system are not having any effect on the information you get.

Once you get the live CD's desktop displayed, get to a terminal window (someone else will have to tell us both how to do it in Ubuntu 12.04, since my Xubuntu desktop looks totally different), and type "sudo ifconfig -a", then hit Enter. Post the report that results into this thread, so that we can all see exactly how your system is configured (the live CD will configure itself automagically, just as the installed system is supposed to do later when you apply power). From there, we can suggest things to do next.

I did have problems with wi-fi connections when setting up my laptop, and had to download and install a special "firmware" package to make things work. That might be what is happening to you, but it's too early right now to say so with any degree of confidence!

EDIT: I've looked at **varunendra**'s script and heartily recommend that you run it as he suggested. It will tell us lots more information up front which means we may be able to get you on line more quickly!

One thing he didn't mention: if you type in your password as the first step of running the script, you won't see ANY indication that the typing is going through. Most places that you have to give a password, it will echo a "star" for each character to reassure you that the typing has been received. However the command used in the script does NOT echo anything, which usually makes people unfamiliar with that lack of response feel that it's not working at all. Just type it in and hit Enter at the end, and the script will run!

However, when I ran the script here it didn't ask for a password so if it doesn't for you either, just ignore that previous paragraph!

---

### Post by lrayetal on 2014-03-12
```
 
lray@phubuntu:~$ wget -N -t 5 -T 10 http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script && chmod +x wireless_script && ./wireless_script 


--2014-03-12 17:27:57--  http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script 
Resolving dl.dropbox.com (dl.dropbox.com)... failed: Name or service not known. 
wget: unable to resolve host address `dl.dropbox.com' 
lray@phubuntu:~$ 


```

It is obvious that I'm too old to comprehend this. I am reading your thread on my Windows 7 pc, and am copying and pasting your script into a Libre Office
text file to a thumb drive. I then move the thumb drive to the Dell Insprion 6000 with 12.04 LTS on it which has no internet connection. I copied the script
text from the Libre Office doc and pasted it into the terminal and pressed enter and the above is the results. I copied that and pasted it back into a Libre Office doc and then back to my Windows 7 pc, copied and pasted it into the thread reply. 

What am I missing or not doing correctly?

Again thank you for you time and effort.

---

### Post by lrayetal on 2014-03-12
The script is not asking for a password when I typed the script nor when I pasted the script. Thank you.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2014-03-12
> **lrayetal said:**
> The script is not asking for a password when I typed the script nor when I pasted the script. Thank you.It didn't for me when I tried it, either; I think his mention of the menu and password actually referred to the "unpacking" program in Ubuntu.

The actual file that you downloaded is a compressed archive rather than a script, so using Libre Office or any sort of editor can introduce errors. In Win7, plug in the flash drive, display down the folder to which you downloaded the script package and the flash drive, then highlight the downloaded script file, press and hold the right mouse button, and drag its icon over to the flash drive. Release the right button and you should get a popup menu asking whether to move the file, copy it, or cancel the action. Select "copy" and wait for that to complete (should be almost instant) then use the "eject" option of the flash drive's window to be sure it's done. Finally move the flash drive over; it should mount and automatically open a window after a few seconds. Double-click the archive's icon and you should then get the menu he mentioned a few pasts back up the line. If not, let me know. If you do, then run the file and attach its output as he directed.

EDIT: On re-reading your post with the error message, it looks as if you actually copied the link in his message rather than downloading the file. If that's what happened, try just clicking on the link in the message, in Win7, and that will download it to your Win7 machine. When Win7 asks whether to run or save the download, select 'save" and put it on your desktop or in your "My Documents" folder, as you prefer. Then follow my instructions above.

---

### Post by lrayetal on 2014-03-12
OK, I reinstalled my Live Ubuntu 12.04 DVD with "Try Unbuntu" and I have internet connection. But my internet light is not on the pc. I have wired 1 connection showing and a check mark by enable networking from the double arrow symbol in the top right corner. Yet when I click the wireless tab I still do not see my LAN. Ran the script again. Thanks.

```

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ wget -N -t 5 -T 10 http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script && chmod +x wireless_script && ./wireless_script
--2014-03-13 00:01:55--  http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script
Resolving dl.dropbox.com (dl.dropbox.com)... 23.21.66.203
Connecting to dl.dropbox.com (dl.dropbox.com)|23.21.66.203|:80... connected.
HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 302 FOUND
Location: http://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/57264241/wireless_script [following]
--2014-03-13 00:01:55--  http://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/57264241/wireless_script
Resolving dl.dropboxusercontent.com (dl.dropboxusercontent.com)... 54.243.172.108, 50.19.217.218, 23.21.215.118, ...
Connecting to dl.dropboxusercontent.com (dl.dropboxusercontent.com)|54.243.172.108|:80... connected.
HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 200 OK
Length: 4210 (4.1K) [text/plain]
Saving to: `wireless_script'

100%[======================================>] 4,210       --.-K/s   in 0.004s  

Last-modified header missing -- time-stamps turned off.
2014-03-13 00:01:55 (1.02 MB/s) - `wireless_script' saved [4210/4210]


Results saved in "wireless-info.txt".

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 


```

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-03-12
**EDIT 2:** Looks like you posted while I was writing mine. :) Please read my "**EDIT 1**" part at the bottom.
------------------------------------------------------
Just to understand what is going wrong, please note this error (highlighted in **[COLOR="#FF0000"]RED[/COLOR]**) that you are getting -
> **lrayetal said:**
> ```
 
lray@phubuntu:~$ wget -N -t 5 -T 10 http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script && chmod +x wireless_script && ./wireless_script 


--2014-03-12 17:27:57--  http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script 
**[COLOR="#FF0000"]Resolving dl.dropbox.com (dl.dropbox.com)... failed: Name or service not known.[/COLOR]** 
wget: unable to resolve host address `dl.dropbox.com' 
lray@phubuntu:~$ 


```

It means either you were not connected to internet when you copy-pasted the command in terminal, or there was some problem (there can be many) due to which your connection could not reach the server to download the file.

[s]
[SIZE=3]**_SOLUTION_:**[/SIZE]

Don't bother with the command at all. Forget about the "*wget -N..... (bla-bla-bla....)*" comand, you don't need it.
Instead, follow the instructions in my **post no. 11** above. It is a different method that does not involve terminal or commands. I have attached the script file in that post which you can download on another computer, then move it to your Ubuntu machine.

Once it is copied onto your Ubuntu Desktop, just **extract it (right-click on it > click "Extract here") > double-click the extracted file > supply your password when (if) asked > find the created report file > attach it here in your next post**.

This same procedure is explained in a bit more detail in **post 11** above, so please read it to understand the steps better.[/s]

[COLOR="#FF0000"]**EDIT 1 : **[/COLOR] Please discard above. You have created the report successfully. Please note this in your above output -
> Results saved in "**wireless-info.txt**"
I need this file - "**wireless-info.txt**"

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2014-03-12
> **varunendra said:**
> Please discard above. You have created the report successfully. Please note this in your above output -

I need this file - "**wireless-info.txt**"Okay, lray, here's how to get it to him. Reply to this message, from the live DVD trial version of Ubuntu now that it has internet connection. Open the "wireless-info.txt" message by double-clicking its icon. This should open the file in "gedit" rather than in Libre Office. Put the mouse pointer anywhere in the open file, hold down the CTRL key and press the A key. This will highlight the whole file. Then hold down CTRL and press C to copy it into the clipboard. Now, without shutting down the open file, go back to the open reply to this thread, click the "#" button on the toolbar above, then put the pointer between the ] and [ characters of the two commands that will appear in the reply, and click CTRL-V to paste the file into the reply. Finally, submit the reply.

We're making good progress, even if it does seem like you're spinning your wheels!

---

### Post by lrayetal on 2014-03-12
I know you guys think I am the dumbest ever, but is "**wireless-info.txt**" the same as the "wireless_script.tar.gz" file? That is the only icon I see. I clicked it, saved it to my Ubuntu downloads, and copied it to my Ubuntu Live desktop. But when I right click "Extract Here" I only see a blink at the workspace switcher, and nothing is extracted to my desktop.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-03-12
> **lrayetal said:**
> is "**wireless-info.txt**" the same as the "wireless_script.tar.gz" file?

As per what I saw in your last post (and quoted later), the created file seems to be a simple text file, not a ".tar.gz" one.

The "....tar.gz" file is created ONLY if the size of the text file is larger than what this forum allows for attachment. It is nothing but the compressed form of the text file, and is created only if necessary.

If double-clicking the file opens it as a text file, you can copy-paste its contents as JKyleOKC suggested earlier *(you can see an example of that with screenshots by following the "Using Code Tags" link in my signature below)*

If it opens as something else (a compressed archive), not a text file, just attach it in your next post. You can also attach the text file if that is easy for you.

To attach a file here in your post, you will have to click on "Advance Reply" button > type in your post whatever you have to write > click on the Paper-Clip icon at the upper panel of the edit box (in which you create your post) > click Select file > browse to your file and double-click it to get back the the upload dialogue box > click on "Upload" button > close the box > submit your reply.

**PS:**
You are not only able to use a Live CD, but are running Linux from it, is itself a proof that your statement about being 'dumb' is absolutely wrong. You won't believe how many posts it sometimes takes to make someone understand how to boot from a Live DVD, let alone create one or install from it. You are not familiar with the terminology, that's all. I would be as much 'dumb' if someone gives me a Mac OS to handle.

---

### Post by lrayetal on 2014-03-12
```

*************** info trace ***************

***** uname -a *****

Linux ubuntu 3.11.0-15-generic #25~precise1-Ubuntu SMP Thu Jan 30 17:42:40 UTC 2014 i686 i686 i386 GNU/Linux

***** lsb_release *****

Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 12.04.4 LTS
Release:    12.04
Codename:    precise

***** lspci *****

03:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4401-B0 100Base-TX [14e4:170c] (rev 02)
    Subsystem: Dell Inspiron 6000 laptop [1028:0188]
    Kernel driver in use: b44
--
03:03.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller [14e4:4318] (rev 02)
    Subsystem: Dell Wireless 1370 WLAN Mini-PCI Card [1028:0005]
    Kernel driver in use: b43-pci-bridge

***** lsusb *****

Bus 001 Device 003: ID 0781:5530 SanDisk Corp. Cruzer
Bus 005 Device 002: ID 0461:4d65 Primax Electronics, Ltd 
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub

***** PCMCIA Card Info *****

PRODID_1=""
PRODID_2=""
PRODID_3=""
PRODID_4=""
MANFID=0000,0000
FUNCID=255

***** iwconfig *****


***** rfkill *****


***** iw reg get *****


***** route -n *****

Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
0.0.0.0         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
192.168.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     1      0        0 eth0

***** lsmod *****

b43                   369639  0 
mac80211              534884  1 b43
cfg80211              416271  2 b43,mac80211
bcma                   41297  1 b43
ssb                    56410  2 b43,b44

***** nm-tool *****

NetworkManager Tool

State: connected (global)

- Device: eth0  [Wired connection 1] -------------------------------------------
  Type:              Wired
  Driver:            b44
  State:             connected
  Default:           yes
  HW Address:        <MAC address removed>

  Capabilities:
    Carrier Detect:  yes
    Speed:           100 Mb/s

  Wired Properties
    Carrier:         on

  IPv4 Settings:
    Address:         192.168.0.146
    Prefix:          24 (255.255.255.0)
    Gateway:         192.168.0.1

    DNS:             192.168.1.254



***** NetworkManager.state *****
[main]
NetworkingEnabled=true
WirelessEnabled=true
WWANEnabled=true
WimaxEnabled=true

***** NetworkManager.conf *****

[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile
dns=dnsmasq

[ifupdown]
managed=false

***** interfaces *****

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


***** iwlist *****


***** resolv.conf *****

nameserver 127.0.0.1
search launchmodem.com

***** blacklist *****

[/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-ath_pci.conf]
blacklist ath_pci

[/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf]
blacklist evbug
blacklist usbmouse
blacklist usbkbd
blacklist eepro100
blacklist de4x5
blacklist eth1394
blacklist snd_intel8x0m
blacklist snd_aw2
blacklist i2c_i801
blacklist prism54
blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist garmin_gps
blacklist asus_acpi
blacklist snd_pcsp
blacklist pcspkr
blacklist amd76x_edac

***** modinfo *****

filename:       /lib/modules/3.11.0-15-generic/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/b43/b43.ko
firmware:       b43/ucode9.fw
firmware:       b43/ucode5.fw
firmware:       b43/ucode16_mimo.fw
firmware:       b43/ucode15.fw
firmware:       b43/ucode14.fw
firmware:       b43/ucode13.fw
firmware:       b43/ucode11.fw
license:        GPL
author:         Rafa&#322; Mi&#322;ecki
author:         Gábor Stefanik
author:         Michael Buesch
author:         Stefano Brivio
author:         Martin Langer
description:    Broadcom B43 wireless driver
srcversion:     9B797CFD1C70935B62C35EE
alias:          bcma:m04BFid0812rev1Dcl*
alias:          bcma:m04BFid0812rev18cl*
alias:          bcma:m04BFid0812rev17cl*
alias:          bcma:m04BFid0812rev11cl*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev10*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev0F*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev0D*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev0C*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev0B*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev0A*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev09*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev07*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev06*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev05*
depends:        ssb,bcma,mac80211,cfg80211
intree:         Y
vermagic:       3.11.0-15-generic SMP mod_unload modversions 686 
parm:           bad_frames_preempt:enable(1) / disable(0) Bad Frames Preemption (int)
parm:           fwpostfix:Postfix for the .fw files to load. (string)
parm:           hwpctl:Enable hardware-side power control (default off) (int)
parm:           nohwcrypt:Disable hardware encryption. (int)
parm:           hwtkip:Enable hardware tkip. (int)
parm:           qos:Enable QOS support (default on) (int)
parm:           btcoex:Enable Bluetooth coexistence (default on) (int)
parm:           verbose:Log message verbosity: 0=error, 1=warn, 2=info(default), 3=debug (int)
parm:           pio:Use PIO accesses by default: 0=DMA, 1=PIO (int)
parm:           allhwsupport:Enable support for all hardware (even it if overlaps with the brcmsmac driver) (int)

filename:       /lib/modules/3.11.0-15-generic/kernel/drivers/bcma/bcma.ko
license:        GPL
description:    Broadcom's specific AMBA driver
srcversion:     67ADEA6E309FDB9FC19CBCF
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004727sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004365sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004359sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004358sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004357sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004353sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004331sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d0000A8D8sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00000576sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
depends:        
intree:         Y
vermagic:       3.11.0-15-generic SMP mod_unload modversions 686 

filename:       /lib/modules/3.11.0-15-generic/kernel/drivers/ssb/ssb.ko
license:        GPL
description:    Sonics Silicon Backplane driver
srcversion:     78379A0109AF2689B4F6028
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004350sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d0000432Csv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d0000432Bsv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004329sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004328sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004325sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004324sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d0000A8D6sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004322sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004321sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004320sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004319sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014A4d00004318sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004318sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004315sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004312sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004311sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004307sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004306sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004301sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
depends:        
intree:         Y
vermagic:       3.11.0-15-generic SMP mod_unload modversions 686 


***** udev rules *****

# PCI device 0x14e4:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1e.0/0000:03:00.0/ssb1:0 (b44)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="<MAC address removed>", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"

***** dmesg *****

[    8.444113] ssb: Found chip with id 0x4318, rev 0x02 and package 0x02
[    8.444127] ssb: Core 0 found: ChipCommon (cc 0x800, rev 0x0D, vendor 0x4243)
[    8.444135] ssb: Core 1 found: IEEE 802.11 (cc 0x812, rev 0x09, vendor 0x4243)
[    8.444144] ssb: Core 2 found: PCI (cc 0x804, rev 0x0C, vendor 0x4243)
[    8.444151] ssb: Core 3 found: PCMCIA (cc 0x80D, rev 0x07, vendor 0x4243)
[    8.517752] ssb: Sonics Silicon Backplane found on PCI device 0000:03:03.0
[    8.608076] ssb: Found chip with id 0x4401, rev 0x02 and package 0x00
[    8.608089] ssb: Core 0 found: Fast Ethernet (cc 0x806, rev 0x07, vendor 0x4243)
[    8.608097] ssb: Core 1 found: V90 (cc 0x807, rev 0x03, vendor 0x4243)
[    8.608104] ssb: Core 2 found: PCI (cc 0x804, rev 0x0A, vendor 0x4243)
[    8.648258] ssb: Sonics Silicon Backplane found on PCI device 0000:03:00.0
[    8.668756] b44 ssb1:0 eth0: Broadcom 44xx/47xx 10/100 PCI ethernet driver <MAC address removed>
[   86.816202] b44 ssb1:0 eth0: Link is up at 100 Mbps, full duplex
[   86.816210] b44 ssb1:0 eth0: Flow control is off for TX and off for RX
[   88.909329] b43-phy0: Broadcom 4318 WLAN found (core revision 9)
[   88.956049] b43-phy0: Found PHY: Analog 3, Type 2 (G), Revision 7
[   90.031587] b43-phy0 ERROR: Firmware file "b43/ucode5.fw" not found
[   90.031596] b43-phy0 ERROR: Firmware file "b43-open/ucode5.fw" not found
[   90.031600] b43-phy0 ERROR: You must go to http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#devicefirmware and download the correct firmware for this driver version. Please carefully read all instructions on this website.

****************** done ******************


```

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-03-12
Aww... I need an apology I guess. I should have tried this immediately as soon as I saw "b44" in your previous outputs. I dragged the thread unnecessarily long just to be sure. However, now I AM sure :) -
> **lrayetal said:**
> ```

[   90.031587] b43-phy0 ERROR: **[COLOR="#FF0000"]Firmware file "b43/ucode5.fw" not found[/COLOR]**
[   90.031596] b43-phy0 ERROR: Firmware file "b43-open/ucode5.fw" not found
[   90.031600] b43-phy0 ERROR: You must go to http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#devicefirmware and download the correct firmware for this driver version. Please carefully read all instructions on this website.

```
**[SIZE=3]Solution :[/SIZE]**

**[COLOR="#800000"]_Method 1_:[/COLOR] If you can get connected to internet using a cable connection or other means -**

When you are connected to internet via cable, please open a terminal (Ctrl-Alt-T) and run (or copy-paste) the following command in it -
```
sudo apt-get install linux-firmware-nonfree
```

It will ask for your password, type in your login password. You won't see anything on the screen while typing the password (a security feature), just type in correctly and press enter. Once the command finishes doing its job, Reboot and enjoy your wireless.


However, **_IF you don't have a working internet connection on Ubuntu_**, then proceed as follows -

**[COLOR="#800000"]_Method 2_:[/COLOR] If you don't have a working Internet connection on Ubuntu -**

**1)** Download the same package manually on another computer. Here is the link to download : [http://mirrors.kernel.org/ubuntu/pool/multiverse/l/linux-firmware-nonfree/linux-firmware-nonfree_1.14ubuntu1_all.deb](http://mirrors.kernel.org/ubuntu/pool/multiverse/l/linux-firmware-nonfree/linux-firmware-nonfree_1.14ubuntu1_all.deb)

Clicking on this link should download a file named "**linux-firmware-nonfree_1.14ubuntu1_all.deb**" in your Home directory (folder), or your "Downloads" directory (within your Home directory) or wherever you choose to download it (if your browser is set to ask where to download a file).

**2)** Copy this downloaded file onto your Desktop.

**3)** Open a terminal, and run the following command in it -
```
sudo dpkg -i Desktop/**[COLOR="#0000CD"]linux-firmware*.deb[/COLOR]**
```
Please note that there is no gap (space) in the part highlighted in blue. *(there are only three spaces in the above command - before "dpkg", before "-i" and before "Desktop/....")*

Like mentioned above, 'sudo' will ask your password, supply your login password and press 'Enter' to let it do its thing. This command will install the same package as you would have installed more easily with a working internet connection. Once it finishes, reboot and let us know if your wifi works now.

---

### Post by lrayetal on 2014-03-12
I will let you know how it goes. Thanks a million to you Varun, and also to all of the rest of you who helped me. Not only are you guys brilliant, 
but you are so dedicated to helping even the slowest to learn.

Lrayetal

---

### Post by BlinkinCat on 2014-03-12
> **lrayetal said:**
> I will let you know how it goes. Thanks a million to you Varun, and also to all of the rest of you who helped me. Not only are you guys brilliant, 
but you are so dedicated to helping even the slowest to learn.

Lrayetal

Hi,

There are literally hundreds of us elderly citizens in the community - the help we get is amazing - remember never give up!

Cheers and best wishes - :P

Edit : By Elderly, I loosely suggest that could refer to those members of the Linux community who are 50 years or older!

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-03-13
I'll be awaiting curiously, ready to take a few more steps if needed.

> **BlinkinCat said:**
> ..There are literally hundreds of **[COLOR="#0000CD"]us elderly citizens[/COLOR]** in the community
**[COLOR="#800080"][FONT=Comic Sans MS]Et tu, Brute??[/FONT][/COLOR]** :shock:

I never got the slightest hint that you are 'Elderly'! The work you are doing with NewDocs is a task even us younger ones don't dare to take in hand. It's brilliant, very helpful but too ambitious for most of us chickens. :D

---

### Post by BlinkinCat on 2014-03-13
> **varunendra said:**
> I'll be awaiting curiously, ready to take a few more steps if needed.


**[COLOR=#800080][FONT=Comic Sans MS]Et tu, Brute??[/FONT][/COLOR]** :shock:

I never got the slightest hint that you are 'Elderly'! The work you are doing with NewDocs is a task even us younger ones don't dare to take in hand. It's brilliant, very helpful but too ambitious for most of us chickens. :D

That is very kind of you to say so Varun, but your work on the forums requires knowledge that I could never acquire.
Perhaps NewDocs (now PopularPages) helps keeps this 70 year old young - I also must say that I have had plenty of help from others! - :P

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2014-03-13
> **lrayetal said:**
> I know you guys think I am the dumbest ever.As varun said, it's not being dumb, it's just that you're unfamiliar with all the terms -- and we who have worked with the system for a lot longer do tend to take too many things for granted when giving instructions. That's why I jumped in (beside the fact that I'm quite a bit your senior, which should prove that age itself is no barrier to understanding this stuff).

I see that several others have joined in and you appear to be well on your way toward getting on line through wi-fi. That missing "b43" file was the same one that gave me trouble last year; I think that once you get it in place things will go much more smoothly.

For now, it's almost midnight here in Oklahoma, USA, so I'll be snoozing for the next 8 to 10 hours. I'll be back tomorrow, though, so don't hesitate to let me know if you need anything translated into more understandable language. I've been a professional technical writer since 1949, and doing that sort of translation has been one of my greatest strengths; now I'm simply "paying forward" for all the help others have given me over the years!

---

### Post by NoBugs! on 2014-03-13
Dell hardware *does* support Ubuntu, you can even get it preinstalled:

[http://www.dell.com/us/business/p/xps-13-linux/pd](http://www.dell.com/us/business/p/xps-13-linux/pd)

The problem of wifi/network component support is based on what hardware you have and how new the Linux/Ubuntu is - newer versions (and even older versions with updates) have better wifi/hardware support. 2012 version is a bit old, and in a month there will by 14.04, also a long-term-supported release.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-03-13
I don't want to take the thread off-topic, but I hope sharing "Why" I think that Dell (or any other vendor) can't guaranty "_Consistent and Continuous_" Linux compatibility won't take it off the rails, and may perhaps even add some value to the thread -

> **NoBugs! said:**
> Dell hardware *does* support Ubuntu, you can even get it preinstalled:

[http://www.dell.com/us/business/p/xps-13-linux/pd](http://www.dell.com/us/business/p/xps-13-linux/pd)
The problem is that no vendor designs 'All' the hardware, nor all the software. Dell, for example, just assembles their models with most of the parts from different vendors and installs an OS (say, Ubuntu) before selling it. This is what they call a "Supported" model. However, the following explains how and why that model is _supported ONLY for that particular version_ *(and even that may have some OEM specific tweaks to make it work)*.

The vendors of the parts actually been used never share their hardware design internals with entire world *(or 'Anyone' other than their "In-House" developers; it is their design/business secret)*. So the Linux kernel developers can't make sure the compatibility is maintained when they add/change things. The vendors themselves don't have time to keep modifying their firmwares/drivers to keep up with the newer kernel changes (kernel development is too fast, and they're too busy in focusing on the windows market).

That's when compatibility breaks (not necessarily, but often it does), and vendors like Dell can't do anything about it (unless they can convince some of the part manufacturers to quickly provide a new driver/firmware as soon as an older one breaks). It also happens on popular platforms like Windows (hence why different driver versions), but first - not so often, secondly - they are quick to patch it up to keep up with (rather slow) windows development. The reason is clear - that's where most of the money comes from. If they can't keep up, they'll lose customers.

> **NoBugs! said:**
> 2012 version is a bit old, and in a month there will by 14.04, also a long-term-supported release.
As long as you are installing (or upgrading to) a latest "**Point-Release**" of an LTS, you are never left behind. For instance, the latest release (Ubuntu 13.10) comes with kernel 3.11, and if you see the "wireless-info.txt" contents in lrayetal's post above, he is on the same kernel. When 14.04 comes out, 12.04 will also be upgradable to the same kernel and overall hardware support.

Please read "LTS Enablement Stack" (or **Hardware Enablement Stack**) to see how this works : [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack)

---

### Post by lrayetal on 2014-03-13
Good Morning, Houston! We have wired and wireless internet on 12.04 LTS. It was quite a learning experience! How in the world do you do it?  Thank you all again; you are the greatest!
I don't know how to post "SOLVED" but someone please do it for me.

lrayetal

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2014-03-13
> **lrayetal said:**
> Good Morning, Houston! We have wired and wireless internet on 12.04 LTS. It was quite a learning experience! How in the world do you do it?  Thank you all again; you are the greatest!
**I don't know how to post "SOLVED" but someone please do it for me.**Unfortunately only you, and the forum moderators, can add the "SOLVED" tag. Click the link in my signature below for the instructions on how to do it.

As for "How in the world do you do it" it's just a matter of how many months or years we've been using the system, and how interested we might be in what goes on behind the scenes. Keeping up with "what's new" in the world of computers is a constant race between the developers and we users, because any system is actually obsolete by the time it gets to the store shelves for sale. It's been that way at least since 1981, when IBM made the personal computer respectable to the business community, and it's speeding up every year.

That means we have to be intensely curious about all those hidden mysteries, and most of us who help (here and elsewhere) spend quite a few hours every day just keeping up with what's new. While that makes it possible for us to diagnose such problems as the one you had, it also tends to make us assume that you know what we're talking about -- and that assumption often isn't completely true.

Speaking for myself, I wrote my first computer program in 1961 after being assigned to write a reference manual for a new computer, but wasn't allowed to actually run the program to see whether it worked. Not until I went to work for General Electric four years later did I get a chance to actually use a real computer at all -- and I then spent hours teaching myself how they worked. The passion has continued ever since, and once the microcomputer appeared in 1974 I had to get one (although doing so took a few more years since they cost as much as a new car at that time).

Welcome to the forums, and my offer to explain anything you find puzzling remains open. You'll find ways to send private messages to get my attention, but I **really** prefer to help out in public threads like this since that makes the explanations available to everyone else (and also draws in folk like *varun* and *BlinkinCat* who know things that I don't). I'm very glad that your problem is solved!

---

### Post by NM5TF on 2014-03-13
> **lrayetal said:**
> Good Morning, Houston! We have wired and wireless internet on 12.04 LTS. It was quite a learning experience! How in the world do you do it?  Thank you all again; you are the greatest!
I don't know how to post "SOLVED" but someone please do it for me.

lrayetal

way to go Lray & welcome to the wonderful world of Linux...:)

now that you have access to the 'net, be sure to bookmark these Forums.....they are 1 of the 
absolute best web resources bar none !!!:popcorn:

as you learn more about Linux, you will find yourself seldom, if ever, using Windows for most anything

to mark the thread closed. go to thread tools near top right of page....it will open a drop down menu...select
"mark thread solved"

tommy

---

