---
title: "radeon 0000:03:00.0: VCE init error (-22)"
date: 2016-06-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by notone2 on 2016-06-28
Hi guys,

I've been running Ubuntu for about half a year on this machine and it worked fine, but now system boot is stuck on this error, please help.

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-06-28
Hello!

What release are you running?  Have you recently upgraded your release?  Have you recently updated or installed packages?  What are your hardware specs?

---

### Post by notone2 on 2016-06-29
Hello,

I was running 16:04, upgraded to it when it was released and updating regularly it stopped working about month ago. I have a dual boot with Windows 10. I was using ext2 to access files on Ubuntu from windows, but i couldn't mount windows partition in Ubuntu, as it was showing it was locked as it was using partition for hibernation (i don't use hibernation, sleep etc and they are disabled), but i found out that windows can use hard drive similarly for "fast boot", so i turned it off in windows. That was about time this started happening also, but I'm not sure it got anything to do with it, just thought worth it mentioning. Also Ext2 is not working anymore, I start the program and nothing happens, and don't see GUI but it shows as running.

In this period also it did boot once successfully, not sure how.

Dell [Inspiron 3537]
[Intel(R) Core(TM) i3-4010U CPU @ 1.70GHz, 1701 Mhz, 2 Core(s), 4 Logical Processor(s)]
[AMD Radeon HD 8670M]
[Intel(R) HD Graphics Family]

if you need any more info please ask

---

