---
title: "10.04: System Monitor shows &lt; installed RAM"
date: 2010-06-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tyler9 on 2010-06-16
Ubuntu 10.04:  System>Administration>System Monitor>System tab

...under Hardware and System Status, the Processor and Available disk space are correct.

But it's showing:   Memory: 2.7 GiB

Similarly, on the Resources tab, it shows xx MiB (xx %) of 2.7 GiB

I have 4GB of RAM. Why the discrepancy? Didn't find any info in System Monitor Help.

I understand a 32-bit OS addresses ~ 3.5 GB memory, but the reported 2.7 is almost 1GB short.

Thanks for help.

---

### Post by mbzn on 2010-06-16
As far as i know, 3.5 is estimated.
take 4 Gb minus amount of vidio memory minus cmos minus, you get the drill.
If i have it correctly all your memory will add up to (4GB?).
Why not try 64bit, only issue with it is flash(although i have no problem with the 64bit beta version of flash).
PS. depending what you do with your PC 2.7GB is more than enough for day to day tasks in linux.

---

### Post by tyler9 on 2010-06-16
2 to the 32nd power = 4,294,967,296---approx 4.3 GB

But I think ~ .5 GB is used for something system-related [in addition to the OS itself?], typically leaving ~3.5GB available. Hope an expert will confirm or correct.

mbzn:
"Why not try 64bit, only issue with it is flash(although i have no  problem with the 64bit beta version of flash). PS. depending what you do with your PC 2.7GB is more than enough for day  to day tasks in linux.

32-bit is fine and I know 2.7GB memory is usually adequate. 

My question is, what accounts for the discrepancy? Understanding this will help me learn and increase my understand--something I definitely need to do!

---

### Post by mbzn on 2010-06-16
Onboard video maybe. I've read somewhere that even the CPU cache gets deducted from the (4.3GB as you say). Don't know how accurate that is...
Other than that i don't have much knowledge on 4GB RAM on 32bit.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-06-16
@tyler9,
 
Install hardinfo from SC or synaptic. It ends
 up in system tools. See what it reports.
If your video card is an integrated type it's memory will get allocated from the system mem.

---

### Post by migs73 on 2010-06-16
I had 4GB of RAM in my machine and only reported to have the same 2.7GB. The 32bit OS seems to cut of at about 3.5GB and the other loss will probably be due to system and graphics.
I am not able to run 64bit on my machine, so instead I followed this;

(before doing this check to see that your processor is capable of PAE [or it might say it has the NX bit])

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnablingPAE](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnablingPAE)

This now enables my machine to see 3.8GB of my 4GB.(although one process will not be able to use more than the 32bit max at any one time)

Also see this regarding the difference between GB and GiB could also explain the difference;  [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gigabyte](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gigabyte)

---

