---
title: "$ 1,000 [7yr.old] comp audio/video Issues"
date: 2009-09-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by faron45 on 2009-09-11
Hellllllllllllllllllllllllllp !! I've had Xubuntu installed on my pc now for OVER a year & for some reason [WHY,WHY,WHY ???] I cannot seem to even just play a simple audio cd.Upon placing the cd in the tray & closing "the hatch",the disc player  sounds as if it is attempting to begin playback.After approximately 30 seconds [ro so] of this,the disc player then powers back down & basically shuts itself off.[Not even any error  messages are displayed afterwards.

 I'm sure all of you can understand how very frustrating this is for me.Especially with me being a musician & all.AND,xfmedia has just NEVER worked properly for me since install.AND,re-install & re-install.Even trying to use it to just watch short video clips is pretty much useless.

  The audio seems to be okay.BUT,the video is just a very,VERY long black rectangle.Can ANYONE **PLEASE** explain to me **PLEASE** how to fix these 2 issues ? This pc [I think] should be operating ALOT better than what it ALWAYS has.This pc [when new] cost us just over a grand & change.

  And,again,I personally think that it should be working ALOT better than what it is.OR,ever has.Especially considering the fact that there is now an O.S. on here {Xubuntu} that supposedly is significantly smaller/lighter than the original Micros_it operating system.Can anyone PLEASE HELP ???!!!

---

### Post by insane_alien on 2009-09-11
perhaps the cd is just not set to autorun. have you tried opening up your media player and telling it to play the audio disc?

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2009-09-11
Whenever I install Ubuntu, I follow the steps in [THIS THREAD]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683") from top to bottom to get all the multimedia stuff working.

---

### Post by faron45 on 2009-09-11
Perhaps,you may be correct.Will look into this.Thanks very much,alien.
Hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm.Very interesting...After opening xfmedia,could find NOWHERE listed,the cd that's inside the machine.

---

### Post by faron45 on 2009-09-11
40rbs,thank you very much for that info.Am going to look into this info that you have given me.EVERYTHING...much appreciated all.Have to take a small trip.Be back in approximately45 mins.Again,thank you all very much.As always.

---

