---
title: "essid and WEP key"
date: 2008-05-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by fmpfmpf on 2008-05-14
i am using Ubuntu 7.10 and i am installing a WLAN driver for it.

in the Readme file of the isntallation, there is a part that will request users to enter essid and WEP key of wireless ap.

My question is, how do i know what th essid and WEP key is?
Do i generate them myself?

For those who wishes to have a look at the acutal readme, you can download it from here:-
[http://www.viaarena.com/default.aspx?PageID=420&OSID=45&CatID=3160&SubCatID=179](http://www.viaarena.com/default.aspx?PageID=420&OSID=45&CatID=3160&SubCatID=179)


Thank you very much

---

### Post by PartisanEntity on 2008-05-14
You need to enter the essid and wep key of the router you want to connect to.

This data is usually generated by the person who owns/manages the router.

If you own a wireless router then you need to read the manual of the router to see how to generate an essid and WEP key (usually through the control panel of the respective router model).

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-05-14
Btw, breaking the WEP key is a matter of a few minutes... just in case you are really concerned about secure connections.

---

### Post by fmpfmpf on 2008-05-14
thank you guys

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2008-05-14
> **hyper_ch said:**
> Btw, breaking the WEP key is a matter of a few minutes... just in case you are really concerned about secure connections.

very true. Most routers will now be able to use either wpa or wpa2, (wpa2 being the most secure). wep is almost pointless ;)

you'll be able to change the security settings in the configuration page of your router through your browser ;)

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-05-14
I use no encryption at all on my router :)

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2008-05-14
heh, fine if you wish to share your internet connection.

but then mac adress filtering and a hidden ssid will often work just as well ;)

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-05-14
mac address filtering and hidden ssid will not protect you at all ;)

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2008-05-14
depends what you mean by protect. will make it harder to join your network, which is what i meant.

but anyways, i've always used at least wpa anyways ;)

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-05-14
harder? Not at all... hwaddress to set a mac address and kismet for checking wifis...

---

### Post by fmpfmpf on 2008-05-15
does anyone know how to make my laptop function as a router which releases signal?

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-05-15
you mean that you're notebooks wifi card acts as access point so that others can connect to it?

---

### Post by fmpfmpf on 2008-05-15
yes
i want a 2nd notebook to connect to the internet by taking the signal released by the 1st notebook

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-05-15
You will have to change the mode of your wifi card (and do some briding somehow...)

Haven't done that before so I can't really help... google returned this here, ahve  a look:
[http://www.linux.com/articles/55617](http://www.linux.com/articles/55617)

---

### Post by fmpfmpf on 2008-05-15
how do i determine the essid n WEP key?
do i decide it myself?

thanks

---

### Post by PartisanEntity on 2008-05-16
> **fmpfmpf said:**
> how do i determine the essid n WEP key?
do i decide it myself?

thanks

Again, yes. If you own a router, you most probably will have some kind of control panel.

In that control panel, you should be able to define the esside (which is an ID like MyRouter or TomsWIFI) and a WEP key.

You need to read the manual of your router, different models have different control panels.

---

