---
title: "Resolution issues with Nvidia GeForce FX 5500"
date: 2009-01-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by A_Drive on 2009-01-10
I just installed ubuntu 8.10 and I can't seem to get a resolution above 640X480.  The driver is installed and I have tried using scripts from other threads in my xorg.conf.  Nothing seems to work.  This is my current xorg:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection


I would appreciate any insight.  This is driving me nuts.

---

### Post by taseedorf on 2009-01-12
go to nvidia's website and download the correct driver for your card.  it will be named "something.run"

when downloaded, kill gdm

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

than run that file you downloaded

sh something.run

follow the instructions

boom

run  sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

yay

---

### Post by A_Drive on 2009-01-14
i tried that, but when I kill gdm the screen goes blank with just the blinking cursor, and no prompt.

---

