---
title: "12.04 How Do You Mount a RAID 5 Partition?"
date: 2013-03-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Kartari on 2013-03-13
Hi,

A friend is having issues with his Windows 7 desktop (stopped booting normally & safe mode, keeps trying and failing to repair with Windows Repair), so I booted Ubuntu 12.04 via CD and can see that all four of his hard disks are showing "healthy" according to Disk Utility. One is a ssd with his main Windows partition (configured as a single-drive RAID partition); the other three are configured as a single partition (RAID 5 disk array, via his mobo's onboard RAID utility).

His single-drive Windows partition is automatically mounting, but not his data array. While Disk Utility shows all four hard disks, many options available to the single-drive RAID partition are not showing for the RAID 5 array, including the most important one to me right now: MOUNT.

So, how do you mount a RAID 5 partition?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Kartari on 2013-03-13
Btw, more on my friend's situation in case you're wondering why I don't simply reformat and reinstall the os partition.

I am swapping his mobo and cpu (his mobo's USB controller is problematic - a capacitor was blown and replaced, but hasn't been 100% since), hence the need to copy his data to an external drive before the swap. I understand RAID is best reconfigured from scratch when swapping the mobo, so my plan is a) access the data array (via Ubuntu) and copy all files to an external drive, b) swap the mobo, c) reconfigure RAID with the same disks, and d) copy the data back to the drives.

---

### Post by Kartari on 2013-03-17
Anyone? Thanks!

---

### Post by ronparent on 2013-03-18
You are right, the raid 5 partition would not likely survive the MB swap. The 12.04 should see the raid 5? Try querying it from a live cd terminal with the command - **sudo dmraid -ay**. The response should be that the raid is already active. If so, the raid partition should be listed as a folder on your panel at the left edge of the screen. If it isn't we will have to explore the problem further!

---

