---
title: "11.04 Default change on Hidden Files"
date: 2011-05-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-29
Whenever I go into my /home I always have to check "Show hidden files". I would like those files to be always shown. It's a hassle since I am always going in and looking at those files. Anyone help?

thanks

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-05-29
Rename the file with out the dot in front of the name . Example: .icons to icons or check show hidden on the under the view tab in Nautilus.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-05-29
In Nautilus if you go to Edit, Preferences, Views (first tab) you *should* be able to tick 'Show hidden and backup files' and the preference should remain between sessions. If it doesn't you might try renaming the ~/.nautilus folder (/home/yourusername/.nautilus). It will be recreated the next time you start Nautilus and perhaps the settting will remain.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-29
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> Rename the file with out the dot in front of the name . Example: .icons to icons or check show hidden on the under the view tab in Nautilus.

Ok Frogs Hair on the dot but putting a check on the Show Hdden Files must be done each and every time I go to the /home Directory and that is what I do not want to do. I rather find a solution to that than deleting the dots on many directories.

---

### Post by dnairb on 2011-05-29
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> Rename the file with out the dot in front of the name . Example: .icons to icons ...

Do. Not. Do. This. This could break your system as various apps have settings/configuration files and folders in the /home directory, which usually begin with the dot.


> **drs305 said:**
> In Nautilus if you go to Edit, Preferences, Views (first tab) you *should* be able to tick 'Show hidden and backup files' and the preference should remain between sessions. If it doesn't you might try renaming the ~/.nautilus folder (/home/yourusername/.nautilus). It will be recreated the next time you start Nautilus and perhaps the settting will remain.

The above is the safest way to do this

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-29
> **dnairb said:**
> Do. Not. Do. This. This could break your system as various apps have settings/configuration files and folders in the /home directory, which usually begin with the dot.




The above is the safest way to do this

Thank You!

gumshoegrant

---

### Post by Spaceman Spiff on 2011-07-28
I apologize for this post

---

