---
title: "12.10   Cannot (or told should not) use it."
date: 2012-10-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Oldpeter on 2012-10-21
Hi, having problems with 12.10.
>
> Tried to upgrade but the upgrade came back with a message
> recommending I stay with 12.4 as graphics would be much slower with 12.10 as my Nvidiacard did not
> board did not support 3D so I cancelled the
> upgrade and downloaded and burnt the iso version instead.
>
> But the iso version only gets as far as asking whether I want to
> try or install, I select try, and the screen goes black and I cannot
> get it to accept any instructions so have to switch off at the
> main..
>How do I become  aware of when this defect is fixed   OldPeter

---

### Post by offgridguy on 2012-10-21
There are a lot of issues in the forum regarding 12.10, do a thread search under 12.10 ,
You may change your mind about using it.

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-10-21
Did you try the nvidia "nomodeset" trick everyone uses?

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-10-21
As far as I understand your post, you are currently running Ubuntu 12.04 and think about upgrading to Ubuntu 12.10. Since 12.04 is LTS and supported for 5 years, may I ask you if there is a serious reason to upgrade, i. e. do you have problems with 12.04 that you think are fixed with 12.10? Or do you want to have the latest and greatest in software? If thats the case, you should possible attempt the upgrade, BUT be aware of that a lot of people here on the forum face problems.
If you admire a stable system and just want to get your stuff done, stay with 12.04. Since it is LTS it doesn't run out of support in the near future and can be used for years.

---

### Post by offgridguy on 2012-10-21
Is LTS an acronym for long term support ??
I agree with the synopsis given by 2F4U.

---

### Post by Oldpeter on 2012-10-21
I has decided to accept the update recommendation of not to update but wanted to see what 12.10 contained hence downloading and creating a iso cd just try it out  (for now) but as the screen, keyboard and mouse all seem to go dead after choosing the ;Try; option it seems as though my only choice now is to await until the defect is fixed hence my question on where I should look say  weekly until it is worth trying another download and test   OldPeter

---

### Post by westcoast01 on 2012-10-21
> **wojox said:**
> Did you try the nvidia "nomodeset" trick everyone uses?
Yeah, what wojox said. Give us some computer specs please, will be alot more helpful. Best of luck.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-10-21
There will never be a version of the 12.10 CD to download that&#8217;s different to the one you already have.

As others have said you probably need to boot with the nomodeset option to use the CD successfully. Instructions for doing so can be found here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)

As the Update Manager recomended you may well have performance issues trying to run 12.10 with your graphics card, this is a combination of Ubuntu dropping support for Unity 2D as well as ATI ending linux support for your graphics card.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-10-21
Also, please be aware that if you DO choose to upgrade to 12.10, there is no way to "roll back" to what you have now.  Basically, upgrade is one-way.  There is no down-grade.

You can protect yourself to some degree by using Clonezilla to image off your current setup to an external drive.  That way, if the upgrade goes really badly, you could then restore your current setup from the backup.

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-11-07
> **offgridguy said:**
> Is LTS an acronym for long term support ??

LTS stands for long-term support.  As it's not really a pronounceable word, it doesn't really fit the definition of acronym.

---

