---
title: "eeepc 1005HA Wireless card"
date: 2010-07-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by I_MELT_FACES on 2010-07-27
It works (out of the box) But whenever it boots, It says connected but the internet does not work. I click disconnect and I then click connect to the same network, and magically it works. Is there any way to get it to automatically work from startup?
I have typed this in and it seemed to connect a lot faster with, but still gives me problems with the internet when I boot:
sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-karmic
I am using Ubuntu Lucid Lynx. Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-07-27
Often, when the Internet does not work, it's a DNS problem. Can you enter the command:
cat /etc/resolv.conf
after booting? If there are good nameserver lines, it's not DNS. Your router should be giving you the nameservers when it gives you an IP address.

---

### Post by I_MELT_FACES on 2010-07-31
Alright, Sorry for the super slow reply, it doesn't "connect" every time. Most the time it takes a while then it says Disconnected. Then I reconnect and it works fine. I typed in what you suggested, And I got:
justin@Andariel:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain home
search home
nameserver 192.168.1.254

Also When I am connected to the internet I get the same exact thing. Any other suggestions? Thank you for your time.

---

### Post by I_MELT_FACES on 2010-08-01
Bump!

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-08-01
The nameserver is not valid. If you are using DHCP. you need to change the setup on your router. If you have a static IP address, you need to change the setup in network manager. The information from your ISP should tell you what to specify for your DNS server.

resolv.conf is created when you connect to the Internet, but you could change it by:
gksudo gedit /etc/resolv.conf
then change the nameserver to 208.67.222.222
save the file and see if you can access google.com

It's only a temporary fix, but it would confirm where the problem lies.

---

### Post by I_MELT_FACES on 2010-08-01
Hey, thanks for the reply. I have DHCP enabled on my router. It's a BT router that comes already set up, if that helps. also, 99% of the time now It takes forever and won't connect on boot up, restart, or log off/log on. As soon as i try to connect again it instantly connects. If it is DHCP's fault then I can enable static IPs, but I want verification before I do that. Thanks for the help :)

Edit:
Also, I tried entering that in, but it wouldn't connect at all when I booted up about 7-8 times I tried.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-08-01
Did you try this?

resolv.conf is created when you connect to the Internet, but you could change it by:
gksudo gedit /etc/resolv.conf
then change the nameserver to 208.67.222.222
save the file and see if you can access google.com

You don't reboot, that would destroy it. Save the file, and immediately try browsing.

---

### Post by I_MELT_FACES on 2010-08-01
Alright, I tried it. It did not work. i put in 208.67.222.222 instead of the default one, and tried to get onto google, and it did not work.

---

### Post by I_MELT_FACES on 2010-08-02
Bump!

---

### Post by jtarin on 2010-08-02
What model of router...make and model number?

---

