---
title: "8.04 locking up. help please"
date: 2008-11-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by e1ektrob0y on 2008-11-23
I have recently had lock ups with hardy. Every time i boot to linux (i'am running dual boot with vista) the system works for about 30 seconds and then crashes. i have to force reboot everytime. The only thing i can think of is i installed some software in vista that allows windows to read linux drives. the two operating systems are on separate drives. Is there anything i can do like run some kind of file check from a live cd perhaps? thanks

Also vista can no longer read the linux drive it just says "the drive needs to be formatted" when i try to get into it. thanks :(

---

### Post by nhasian on 2008-11-23
e1ektrob0y,

if you boot off of the Ubuntu LiveCD and use that for some time, will the computer still lock up?  If it works okay then we can try to find out what driver or software you later installed that is causing the lockups.

for windows to be able to read the linux partition you need to install some software like Ext2IFS

[http://www.fs-driver.org/](http://www.fs-driver.org/)

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2008-11-23
nhasian is right.
If the live cd works, than please give us your specs by running
```
sudo lshw
lspci
```

I had also some unexplained issues with hardy, but they are gone since I use intrepid. So I would also recommend to always use the latest version of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-11-23
Also - check dmesg from the livecd. You'd need to mount the installed partition to see the appropriate messages

---

### Post by e1ektrob0y on 2008-12-04
it seems i can't do any of the above because when i boot to the live cd the system locks up after the same short amount of time. Vista works but ubuntu 8.04 locks up live cd or hard disk. I used it with this same system for a long while and now this all of a sudden. Anyone know what to do? I'd like to upgrade to the latest release but i cant log on for long enough to let the upgrade manager do its thing...

---

