---
title: "Learning the BASH Shell and I am totally confused. ( Basic help needed )"
date: 2020-04-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Roman_Van_Holdt on 2020-04-09
Hi Everyone, I am reading a book about the bash shell as I have been told that it is a really powerful thing to know. 
I have a few questions, is there a command that I can type that will show me all the utilities installed that I can use?
I want to know this so I can read the 'man' files and find out what they do. I am having trouble finding such basic things as a text editor that I can use within the terminal. 

Any help is greatly appreciated.

Roman

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2020-04-09
You can use ```
man -k <thing you're interested in>
``` to find the man pages about <thing you're interested in>.

Nano is an easy to use command line text editor that's included in Ubuntu by default.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2020-04-09
A list of all utilities you can run from your shell isn't very useful, but if you want, this command will show the list (more or less):```
ls $(echo $PATH | tr ':' ' ')
```Basically, every file in one of the directories in your PATH is a command you can run in the shell.

man pages are very useful. nano is an easy to use text editor for in your terminal. There are more sophisticated text editors, harder to use, but you may want to try one someday.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2020-04-09
> **Roman_Van_Holdt said:**
> Hi Everyone, I am reading a book about the bash shell as I have been told that it is a really powerful thing to know. 


won't make you a wizzard, but might make people think that you are.

anyway, the free (in PDF) book called The Linux command line is where i started: [http://linuxcommand.org/tlcl.php](http://linuxcommand.org/tlcl.php)

---

### Post by The Cog on 2020-04-09
> **mastablasta said:**
> anyway, the free (in PDF) book called The Linux command line is where i started: [http://linuxcommand.org/tlcl.php](http://linuxcommand.org/tlcl.php)
+1 for that book. But don't let it get you down or put you off. There is a hell of a lot in it, most of which I don't know even after using a Linux desktop for all of this century. It's a very good reference though. 

So don't try to learn it all because your head will explode and you'll have sticky bits all over the walls. Read bits that interest you, and to perhaps just get a feel for what kind of things can be done. And as a reference when you are not sure how to do something. You will eventually figure out what is worth learning because you use it frequently, what is worth remembering can be done but you need to look up the details, and probably find stuff that you don't think you will ever want.

P.S.
Incidentally, for your original request for a list of all possible commands, this will list them and tell you where they are located. Take my word for it, you don't need to know them all although figuring out how that command works would be a good puzzle to start with:
```
ls $(echo $PATH | tr : ' ')
```

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2020-04-09
Another very useful tool is 'apropos'. It will search the one line description at the beginning of man-pages for keywords given as parameters. See 'man apropos' for various ways to make the search more precise.

By the way, the list generated by 'ls $(echo $PATH|tr : ' ')' is of course nowhere near complete since there are three kinds of things you can call from the shell that are not files on the path (shell built-in commands, aliases and functions). You can get a list of the built-in commands with 'help', a list of aliases with 'alias -p' and a list of function with 'declare -F -p' (use -f instead of -F to get full definitions of the functions; careful, this will get very long).

Holger

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-04-09
I like apropos as well.  Here, for instance, is the list produced by "apropos video".

```

$ apropos video
amdgpu (4)           - AMD RADEON GPU video driver
ati (4)              - ATI video driver
dvdunauthor (1)      - Decodes DVD-Video file structure
dvgrab (1)           - Capture DV or MPEG-2 Transport Stream (HDV) video and audio data from FireWire
fbdev (4)            - video driver for framebuffer device
ffmpeg (1)           - ffmpeg video converter
ffmpeg-all (1)       - ffmpeg video converter
ffmpeg-scaler (1)    - FFmpeg video scaling and pixel format converter
kdenlive (1)         - An open source non-linear video editor.
melt (1)             - author, play, and encode multitrack audio/video compositions
modesetting (4)      - video driver for framebuffer device
mpeg2desc (1)        - multiplex audio/video streams
nouveau (4)          - NVIDIA video driver
radeon (4)           - ATI/AMD RADEON video driver
vesa (4)             - Generic VESA video driver
video_format (7)     - Proposal For A Video Format Preference Specification
vmware (4)           - VMware SVGA video driver
xvidtune (1)         - video mode tuner for Xorg
xvinfo (1)           - Print out X-Video extension adaptor information
youtube-dl (1)       - download videos from youtube.com or other video platforms

```

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-04-09
apropos and man -k are the same.
```
$ apropos meld
meld (1)             - Visual diff and merge tool for the GNOME Desktop
$ man -k meld
meld (1)             - Visual diff and merge tool for the GNOME Desktop
```

The Linux Documentation Project is full of guides.
*Beginning Bash Scripting*
*Advanced Bash Scripting*
Google finds those easily.
Books from 20 yrs ago are still mostly relevant too, so if you can find a _Unix Power Tools_ book from 1995, there is much to be learned.  Same for any Shell scripting books.  Don't get too concerned about Ubuntu vs Linux vs Unix.  For 90% of scripting, they are the same.

---

### Post by Roman_Van_Holdt on 2020-04-11
Hi, thanks for all your advice. I will try all of these and no doubt come back with more questions. :lolflag:
Have a great weekend. :KS

---

