---
title: "20.04crashes"
date: 2024-02-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jaxom98 on 2024-02-19
PC  gen 13 intel mobo i5 cpu  OS ubuntu 20.04.6
Reliably crashes on clicking settings.  
Frequently ,but not always crashes when doing internet banking, ie transaction goes through but have to log back into computer, then log back into bank for most transactions.
Also the updates of 20.04 are problematic. Sometimes the sound is turned offf after update in youtube. I don't know if this is part of the crash issue or a different issue.

Will UPGRADING to 22.04 fix the crash problem?

The crash problem is specific to the PC.  I had trouble getting a clean down load for the PC. This OS was loaded in mid to late 2022.  I stuck with 20.04 simply for commonality.
I also have the 20.04.6 OS on a laptop and it runs textbook perfect. This an old laptop and was loaded with 20.04 in mid 2020.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-02-19
> **jaxom98 said:**
> PC  gen 13 intel mobo i5 cpu  OS ubuntu 20.04.6
Reliably crashes on clicking settings.  
Frequently ,but not always crashes when doing internet banking, ie transaction goes through but have to log back into computer, then log back into bank for most transactions.
Also the updates of 20.04 are problematic. Sometimes the sound is turned offf after update in youtube. I don't know if this is part of the crash issue or a different issue.


Ouch.  **Check the system logs for warnings and errors.**  I can assure you that 20.04 doesn't crash for most people.  I'm guessing that you have a hardware issue to resolve, but it could be a software configuration issue.  These things happen to everyone.  Lastly, your system could be hacked, so I wouldn't do anything financial on it as is.  I'd boot off an ISO and use the Try Ubuntu Mode to do financial stuff.  

BTW, while you are booting off the ISO and using Try Ubuntu mode, does the system still crash?  If not, then it is likely a configuration problem.

> **jaxom98 said:**
> Will UPGRADING to 22.04 fix the crash problem?

NO!   A broken system doesn't get better doing an upgrade.  It might get better doing a fresh install, but until you 100% know that the hardware isn't the issue, don't.  Just don't.

> **jaxom98 said:**
> 
The crash problem is specific to the PC.  I had trouble getting a clean down load for the PC. This OS was loaded in mid to late 2022.  I stuck with 20.04 simply for commonality.
I also have the 20.04.6 OS on a laptop and it runs textbook perfect. This an old laptop and was loaded with 20.04 in mid 2020.
More reasons to think it is a hardware issue.  Those are logged in the system logs. Go look.

---

### Post by jaxom98 on 2024-02-21
Hello, The Fu. This is from the system log for this session. It is under the "important " tab.  There are 4 other tabs ,they are: applications, system, security, and hardware. They each have 3 or4 pages off giberish as well.  Do you want them?
10:17:30 AM kernel: nouveau 0000:01:00.0: gr: init failed, -16
10:17:30 AM gdm-session-wor: gkr-pam: unable to locate daemon control file
10:17:18 AM systemd: Failed to start GNOME Color management.
10:17:17 AM kernel: nouveau 0000:01:00.0: gr: init failed, -16
10:17:17 AM systemd: Failed to start GNOME Wacom handling.
10:17:17 AM kernel: nouveau 0000:01:00.0: gr: init failed, -16
10:17:17 AM systemd: Failed to start GNOME Power management handling.
10:17:17 AM kernel: nouveau 0000:01:00.0: gr: init failed, -16
10:01:19 AM gdm-session-wor: gkr-pam: unable to locate daemon control file
 9:25:29 AM bluetoothd: Failed to set mode: Blocked through rfkill (0x12)
 9:25:21 AM kernel: nouveau 0000:01:00.0: gr: init failed, -16
 9:24:58 AM wpa_supplicant: nl80211: Failed to create a P2P Device interface p2p-dev-wlp0s20f3
 9:24:54 AM bluetoothd: Failed to set mode: Blocked through rfkill (0x12)
 9:24:44 AM kernel: nouveau 0000:01:00.0: gr: init failed, -110
 9:24:44 AM kernel: ucsi_ccg 0-0008: ucsi_ccg_init failed - -110
 9:24:44 AM kernel: nvidia-gpu 0000:01:00.3: i2c timeout error e0000000
Is this any use?
Also please keep it simple, ie cookbook recipe simple.
Thank you

---

### Post by oldfred on 2024-02-21
If Intel Gen 13, I would expect that you need 22.04 to have latest kernel & drivers.
Typically distribution needs to be 6 months to a year newer than hardware to be better supported. Or you have to manually update something.

But you seem to have nouveau issues. That would mean you have nVidia? And have not installed nVidia driver from Ubuntu repository.
#What is installed
dkms status

If you do not have nVidia driver, do not install a .run file from nVidia directly but install from Ubuntu repository for better support.
And if incorrect driver installed, you must purge old driver before installing the new or you get conflicts & issues.

Older instructions, ppa not required anymore as Ubuntu has drivers in repository.
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2383560&p=13735336#post13735336](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2383560&p=13735336#post13735336)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-02-21
> **jaxom98 said:**
> Hello, The Fu. This is from the system log for this session. It is under the "important " tab.  There are 4 other tabs ,they are: applications, system, security, and hardware. They each have 3 or4 pages off giberish as well.  Do you want them?

We have a misunderstanding.  

I don't want anything. I want YOU to read the logs, figure out which is important is which isn't, then ask specific questions.  

Reading logs is my day job, so the last thing I want to do in my free time is to look at logs.  But that's where the stuff you need to know is - in the log files.

I made other, specific, suggestions. Did you do those things? We cannot read your mind.

---

### Post by jaxom98 on 2024-02-22
Hello Old Fred, My video card is a Gigabyte geforce gtx. However on the last line of the log is a line that appears to say nvidea is trying to start. This makes no sense.
    Also what is "nouveau"? Google show it in association with nvidea.  On a gigabyte card???? this is confusing.

---

### Post by jaxom98 on 2024-02-22
Hello The Fu, I tried to boot off a usb stick, nogo. There is no option to boot of a usb stick and when I did it demanded a floppy disc.
There was an option for booting off a dvd so I also tried to download an iso then burn a dvd . This was also a fail as the dvd appeared not to contain the full iso and the install failed(20.04.6).
An attempt to download and burn a 2nd dvd with20.04 without updates also failed. no sure why.

My biggest problem is I don't know how to read the log and the abreviations, so I don't understand what is being said.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2024-02-22
NVidia does not open its source code, although it has started to let some info out.
So nouveau is a nVidia driver developed as open source and works for older nVidia card/chips. In fact it may be all you have with some old cards as they are not supported for security reasons, anymore.

But nouveau does not have all the features any newer nVidia card needs to be fully utilized.
So you have to install a nVidia driver. Ubuntu now has all the current nVidia drivers in its repository & has them work with every update. If you install the nVidia Linux driver .run file directly from nVidia you in effect have to reinstall with every kernel update.

When you installed Ubuntu did you not have to use Safe boot mode to get it to work.
And then you should choose to install the optional extra or proprietary drivers which would install the correct nVidia driver as part of the install.

Does second line in grub menu or recovery mode boot? That adds nomodeset which uses a default low quality video mode.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-02-22
> **jaxom98 said:**
> Hello The Fu, I tried to boot off a usb stick, nogo. There is no option to boot of a usb stick and when I did it demanded a floppy disc.

That's a BIOS issue. Very few BIOS setups don't allow booting from a flash drive that has been setup properly. I've only seen it on really, really, really, cheap HP and Acer laptops where about half the normal BIOS options were removed from user access.  Booting off flash storage devices has been common since around 2005.  If you can't get to the boot device menu  in your BIOS, that's 1 problem to be solved.

It is possible that the flash drive hasn't been setup correctly.  The Ubuntu-flavor.ISO file needs to be placed onto the flash drive in a specific, unmolested, way.  On Unix, this is trivial. Running MS-Windows, "special tools" have to be used like **Rufus** or **Etcher**.

It is possible that the specific flash drive isn't compatible with the USB port on the system, at least not for booting. This used to be more of an issue and I wish I could say which flash storage was incompatible, but it seems fairly random, in my experience. I've had really cheap flash drives work great and really expensive, branded, flash storage fail to work.  And the other way around.  I've had flash storage that fails in 1 laptop work perfectly in another.  I've seen 1 USB port not work with 1 drive, but putting that same drive into the other USB port and it all works.

1 thing does seem relevant.  USB2 flash storage tends to work more often than USB3 flash storage. Don't know why.

I haven't seen any flash-boot issues in about 5 yrs.  They all seem to work, but YMMV.

> **jaxom98 said:**
> 
There was an option for booting off a dvd so I also tried to download an iso then burn a dvd . This was also a fail as the dvd appeared not to contain the full iso and the install failed(20.04.6).
An attempt to download and burn a 2nd dvd with20.04 without updates also failed. no sure why.
The ISO files have to be placed on the storage media in a specific way.  I haven't burned a DVD in over a decade, so I don't remember the details. Sorry.

> **jaxom98 said:**
> 
My biggest problem is I don't know how to read the log and the abreviations, so I don't understand what is being said.

Nobody does when they start out.  But if you don't start trying, you'll never learn.  I have a rule.  If you want to learn, I'll help until I cannot anymore, for free.  If you want me to do it for you, that's $150/hr with a 1000 hr minimum. Basically, I don't want anyone to take me up to pay me.  Lots of companies are willing trade money for time and expertise.
All I can say is that reading the logs, looking up everything you don't understand, is how to begin.  I'd only bother with lines that have "error" or "warning" in them.  The more you get used to looking at logs, the more they will make sense and your eyes won't gloss over.  Sometimes, the logs will tell you the command to fix things too.

When a computer is crashing, the goal is to figure out how to 100% reproduce the issue, then isolate that issue via software or hardware. Once you know the root cause, you can start swapping hardware or change the config.  Booting off a flash drive is the easiest method to figure out if the issue is a configuration problem or more likely a hardware problem.

If the BIOS won't let you choose a different boot device, then the motherboard may have gone bad and need replacement.  That's pretty unlikely, but it does happen.  I've had a broken motherboard that would take 20 attempts to get into the BIOS. I'd bang on the F12 key and reboot over and over and over until the BIOS screen showed up.  That same motherboard had a dead NIC on it for a few years.  Taught me to avoid that brand which I have.

---

### Post by jaxom98 on 2024-02-22
Hello The Fu, what program do you recommend to put an Iso onto a usb stick?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-02-22
> **jaxom98 said:**
> Hello The Fu, what program do you recommend to put an Iso onto a usb stick?

Answered in post #9 above.

I use **cp**, but if you don't understand linux device names, you can't use it.  Previously, I used ddrescue, which has the same problem - must understand linux device names. I got tired of looking around for some special program to do something I need every other year or less.

An example for cp is 
```
sudo cp /path/to/ubuntu-xx.yy-flavor.iso   /dev/sdX
```

This probably isn't helpful, since the iso will be somewhere else and the device name will be different on your system. Actually, the device file could change with each reboot. If you get the wrong device file, it will be a really, really, really, bad day and total data loss is possible.

---

### Post by him610 on 2024-02-22
@jaxom98, 
Links to a thread documenting *mkusb* , a utility that you can use to make an* iso *file bootable on a USB flash drive.
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1958073]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1958073")
I use it quite often; it works for me; however, be **cautiously aware** of what you are doing.

---

### Post by jaxom98 on 2024-03-04
Update: Attempted to down load "mkusb" files. Downloads worked, as in file showed in download folder, but when I tried to extract the files they vanishes or self deleted. Baffled. This happened five times.
    Next tried to download "ddrescue" files. Nogo.  on further searching it seem ddrescue is now commercial and requires a subscription.   I strongly dislike using my credit card online due to bad experiance.

Crash issue UNSOLVED.

Solution: purchsed new HDD and loaded Ubuntu 18.04 onto a bootable DVD (old computer) and loaded 18.04 onto hdd and upgraded to 20.04.6  The reason for using a DVD is it works reliably on the old computer.
 The Mobo is Asus Prime B760M-A.  In the bios there is an option for cd/dvd bootable disc or hdd. NO BOOTABLE USB OPTION out of the box!!!  WTF   Changing boot order is the limit of my bios knowledge so I won't touch anything else.

Am in process of transfering data to new OS.

him610 and TheFu, thank you for your help

Significant flaw in Ubuntu search: You cannot find what you don't know about, so search does not work.

Please consider this thread closed

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-03-05
Looks like ddrescue package name has changed to "gddrescue". It is from Gnome and 100% f/loss. Definitely be wary of commercial stuff. Often that is were someone with nefarious desires takes the F/LOSS code and decides to try an sell it for a "nominal" delivery charge, which is allowed by the GNU license.

>  Significant flaw in Ubuntu search: You cannot find what you don't know about, so search does not work.
That's the flaw with life.  We don't know what we don't know.

Anyway, if you want to close this thread, please use the _Thread Tools Button_ and mark it **SOLVED**.

---

