---
title: "Networking (ethernet) issues in Ubuntu 10.04"
date: 2011-11-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by phoneman85 on 2011-11-14
I have a desktop PC running 10.04 connected to a 2Wire 2701HG-B router through an ethernet cable.
When I first start the computer, the networking icon (NetworkManager) shows "eth0 active", it gets an IP, DHCP, subnet, etc. but when I go online, I get a "page cannot be displayed" error.
If I disable then re-enable the connection, it works fine. Only happens when I first start my computer up.

I have a laptop with 10.04 on it, and it works fine hooked to the same router with an ethernet cable.
I've tried different ethernet cards, cables, and even different ports on the router, but the desktop still has the same issue! Other PCs using the router work fine for either wireless or Ethernet.
This PC hasn't always done this, but I can't think of anything that was changed that would cause this.

Any help would be appreciated!

Thanks,
Will

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-11-14
have a look at the contents of the file /etc/resolv.conf before and after - let's see if it's the DNS resolution that's the issue. Actually, you could just try **ping ubuntuforums.com** and **ping 91.189.94.12** before and after, to see if it's a DNS lookup problem.

---

### Post by phoneman85 on 2011-11-28
When I first try to ping either address using network tools ping, i get no replies. after restarting the connection, it works fine for both. here's the /etc/resolv.conf settings:

# Generated by NetworkManager
domain gateway.2wire.net
search gateway.2wire.net
nameserver 192.168.1.254
  
File is the same before and after restarting the connection


Also when I ping ubuntuforums.com it returns a message saying network address invalid. after restarting the link, it works fine.
Sounds like DNS to me too, but how do i fix it?

Thanks,
Will

---

### Post by phoneman85 on 2011-12-11
Update: I am still having the same problems, but if I start my Windows XP virtual machine in Virtualbox (on the problem PC) and start firefox from there, it connects!

The connection gets IP, DNS, DHCP, etc, so it must be a setting in Ubuntu. 

I am tired of having to refresh the connection every time I start the computer, SOMEONE smarter than I am has to know something! Please enlighten me!

thanx
Will

---

