---
title: ":( Resolution Troubles :("
date: 2009-05-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tommo12 on 2009-05-09
Ok My problem is, I was trying to get my TV out working with the VGA output on my Acer ASpire 3680, Intel 945gm card and standard monitor.

It worked but with distorted resolutions on both monitor and laptop screen.

Now my monitor has the wrong resolution. I have tried changing it with the display icon in system, the resolution do not show up, only some lesser ones. I have gone into xandr which gave me this?

Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 1024 x 768, maximum 1152 x 1632
VGA disconnected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
LVDS connected 1024x768+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 304mm x 190mm
   1024x768       85.0*    75.0     70.1     60.0  
   832x624        74.6  
   800x600        85.1     72.2     75.0     60.3     56.2  
   640x480        85.0     72.8     75.0     59.9  
   720x400        85.0  
   640x400        85.1  
   640x350        85.1  
TV disconnected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)

my xorg.conf file shows this

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Option        "UseFBDev"        "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection


Is the problem my monitor or graphic card? and how do u think I might fix it? I have tried a few things but nothing seems to make a difference.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by 123456789123456789123456 on 2009-05-09
My friend had something simular happen with his computer, he got a KCM switch, to connect several computers to one monitor, but the display on all the computers were pitiful thorugh the switch.  My only suggestion, would be disconnect TV, if you have not already done so, disconnect monitor, but before disconnecting monitor, have it at the shutdown mode, so you can simply press enter to get the computer to shut down, after shutdown, plug the monitor back in, and restart the computer.  See if that fixes the problem.

Not too sure, but it seems that the systems ability to detect monitor resolution was throughn off by the other display being connected.

---

### Post by Panzor on 2009-05-09
note that I left out that needs to be at the beginning: Do this without the tv plugged in to the computer.

I'm willing to bet that some automating program backed up an older and working version of your xorg.conf file. You could try reloading that by doing "cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup" (replacing the second thing with what's really there as not all backups have "backup" at the end of their names of course). Also, there might have been backups with numbers after the file name. Go with the highest to get the most recent and work your way back...I think. After each try hit "ctrl+alt+backspace" to reload X (it will log you out). [How to enable ctrlaltbackspace in jaunty]("http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/?p=335") But before you do that, run the suggested command in the xorg you showed us: ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```
I'm pretty sure those options (p,h,i,g, and h) make that guess at what you want. Run it without "-phigh" and try to get it right yourself if it doesn't do this.

---

### Post by tommo12 on 2009-05-09
I dunno what i did exactly but that don'tzap line is now in my xorg.conf and it all seems to be working again...

Just for next time, If I make a backup of xorg.conf that is all i need to get it working if i mess it up again thats the main file?

---

