---
title: "12.10 issues - clean install only system partition"
date: 2013-01-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kabukiM0n0 on 2013-01-04
Hey guys!

Just upgraded my system to 12.10 but unfortunately my system can't seem to handle it very well, I'm on a netbook. 

I'm going to fresh install back but I have no external hard drive to store all my data. Will there be any issues with this if I just fresh install on the system partition without formatting my personal files?

I see no reason to why there should be a problem. But thought I'd ask beforehand just in case. 

Thanks a bunch. 

K.m

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2013-01-04
Did you actually create a separate /home partition when you installed or just / and /swap?
If you did create a separate partition, then yes you can reinstall and choose that partition to be mounted at /home but select to NOT format. this will preserve your files and personal settings.

You would need to select "Something Else" in the first stages of installation.
You will need to reinstall the packages/programs that you added after the initial installation.

Edit: Just as a precaution, please post the terminal output from these commands.

```
sudo fdisk -lu 
``````
cat /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by kabukiM0n0 on 2013-01-04
> **arpanaut said:**
> Did you actually create a separate /home partition when you installed or just / and /swap?
If you did create a separate partition, then yes you can reinstall and choose that partition to be mounted at /home but select to NOT format. this will preserve your files and personal settings.

You would need to select "Something Else" in the first stages of installation.
You will need to reinstall the packages/programs that you added after the initial installation.

Yeah, I created an actual partition for my personal files when I first installed. /home / and /swap

Thanks!

---

### Post by JiuJitsu500 on 2013-01-04
Well, this isn't the best idea in the world... but you can boot into the live environment, use gparted to shrink and move your used partition to the end of the drive (tis will take a long time) minus a couple gigs for swap at the very end... then install into the beginning of the drive with swap at the very end...

Once installed, you can access the partition, move everything you need, then boot back into the live envirnment, use gparted to delete the old system, then grow the one you have to fill the gap....

kind of a crappy way to do it, since your partitions will now be like /dev/sda2 and 3, with no 1, but you can change that later once everything works and is done the way you want to.

Like a dude above me said, you'll have to use the "something else" option at install AFTER moving and shrinking your used partition.

Just put the install partition as "/" for the mount point, and the very end as swap... and format the install to ext4... and all should be well. It'll just seriously take a long time to move a partition, and WILL screw up a lot of things if you are not very careful.

---

