---
title: ".rar files"
date: 2008-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ameanjoe on 2008-05-01
Aloha,
Does someone know how to open .rar files. I've downloaded a couple of books on Ubuntu, but can't read them. They were downloaded in the "chm" format.
Should be simple, but I don't know how....
Thanks in advance, ameanjoe

---

### Post by Nepherte on 2008-05-01
Install unrar:
```
sudo apt-get install unrar
```

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2008-05-01
There are a few choices. Open synaptic and search "rar". You will see some choices including the one above. I think there is one that's unfree that will encode and decode.

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-05-01
as for chm, you can also use a number of viewers, like gnochm or xchm.

```
sudo apt-get install xchm
```

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-05-01
Yeh its easy to remedy this, go up to system then to administration and then click on synaptic package manager.
and then search for unrar, after that its all very straightforward as you right or left click the box next to the unrar package and mark it for installation...
learn more here:
[http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/]("http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/")

---

### Post by ryanhaigh on 2008-05-01
You may also want to install gnochm so that you can view those books. To install the software you can use the same command as above.
```

sudo apt-get install gnochm

```
Or you can search through applications>add/remove or system>admin>synaptic
Or you can click this link > [apt://gnochm](apt://gnochm)

Also you may need to enable the universe and mutliverse software repositories in system>admin>software sources before you can install these things. Just check the boxes, close the window and reload when prompted.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InstallingSoftware](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InstallingSoftware)

---

### Post by tacutu on 2008-05-01
This should work:
unrar x <filename>.rar

---

### Post by sayakb on 2008-05-01
```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```
Would let you handle the files normally.

---

### Post by ameanjoe on 2008-05-01
A BIG THANK YOU to all who responded to my query.
If I can't make it work with all the help, I should go back to Windows(NOT)!!
Now I need to figure out what's causing my upgraded 8.04 to not boot
(or at least requires 3 or 4 attempts). Just hangs at the Ubuntu splash screen.
But this was not part of the current query. And again, a massive thankyou.
Aloha nui, ameanjoe

---

### Post by ameanjoe on 2008-05-01
New update:
Tried every suggestion and the best response I got was "file/directory doesn't exist", yet I can see then (2) there on my desktop. Possibly I need to move them to another directory? Or delete them and re-download?
I feel so stupid sometimes. Being a newbe and trying hard to learn, and I truly appreciate all the suggestions, comments, responses. At least, it would seem, most everyone commenting can speak english and has some understanding of how people and things work. And I thank you all again.
Aloha, ameanjoe

---

### Post by ryanhaigh on 2008-05-01
If you have installed unrar then you should just be able to right click on the files and select extract here or open them by double clicking and extract using file-roller(archive manager in applications) and extract from there. Is this what you are trying and getting the error? 

Were the original archives split rars with many files and on .rar?

---

### Post by ameanjoe on 2008-05-01
Thank you again, Ryan,
Once again...too simple for me to see. I hate when that happens.
Thankfully there are blokes like you to lend a hand.
Mahalo nui loa,
ameanjoe

---

