---
title: "9.04 and a 2nd Gen Ipod Touch"
date: 2009-06-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sevenones12 on 2009-06-01
I'm new to Ubuntu, and I'm finally trying to figure out how to get my ipod touch to work with it. I know itunes is impossible to run, and it's really difficult to get this to work with my ipod. 

Right now, I'm single booting Ubuntu 9.04, no more Windows. I don't want to jailbreak my ipod either. So is there a way to connect it with out jailbreaking it, or how do I go about partitioning my hard drive so I can dual boot Windows 7? Thanks.

---

### Post by pspsampsp on 2009-06-01
unless its jailbroken i think there is no way to use it in ubuntu , you can use your ubuintu live cd or usb to do the partioning , just boot off the live usb or cd and go into system -> administration -> partion editor to change your ubuntu partion.

---

### Post by kryos on 2009-06-01
If you have the ram to run windows in a virtual machine I would give VirtualBox a go.  I run 7 and 2000 under Hardy with only 2 Gigs quite well.

---

### Post by sevenones12 on 2009-06-01
It's a new laptop, HP G60. 2.0 Ghz dual core, 3 Gigs of memory... that enough?

---

### Post by sevenones12 on 2009-06-01
Also, will it need disc space for my music again? Or will it be able to read Ubuntu folders?

---

### Post by Ocxic on 2009-06-02
you can set it to read your folders from Ubuntu. I've been using it for my ipod touch and it works flawlessly...    

TIP: jailbreak the ipod, there's alot more stuff you can customize, and not to mention the free apps. it does not void your warranty and can be reversed by restoring the ipod.

---

### Post by wolfie2x on 2009-06-02
> **sevenones12 said:**
> It's a new laptop, HP G60. 2.0 Ghz dual core, 3 Gigs of memory... that enough?

Yep that should be more than enough. But why waste ram/disk with Win7? Just install XP. My laptop with 1GB Ram runs XP on VirtualBox just fine (and syncs my iPhone). Which ever one u pick make sure to install a virus guard. Avira AntiVir (free) is my pick.

Create a shared folder using VirtualBox; Then you can point to a folder in your Linux, but windows will see it as a windows folder.

---

