---
title: "11.04 or 10.04?"
date: 2011-05-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-18
[SIZE=2]I came here couple of weeks ago. I knew nothing about Linux and judging by my post's have a long way to go. Have I learned things since I came here? YES thanks to the wonderful helpful people on this forum. Thanks to ALL of you.

I have used Windows for 12 years or longer and quite frankly became disgusted with their programs and their philosophy and never ending power grabs because they can do it because they have the most bucks.

When I came to Linux I downloaded the latest which was Unity. Within one week I was thinking of going to an earlier version simply because I did not like the Windows approach of the Unity desktop and too much of a gimmick perhaps childish and something I would not expect after serious well thought out versions of the past. Seemed to go backwards. Perhaps it is meant to appeal to the Window users. But then I discovered that I could go back to the classic screen and that is what I did and enjoy it much better. Perhaps it is because of my age being 60.

So I come here with this question with my limited exposure to Linux. Judging the direction that Mr. Shuttleworth and Canonical is taking Ubuntu perhaps it is best to go back to 10.04 or 10.10 and stay there until this 11.04 and 11.10 rides it's course for better or worse and then make a decision on the route to go.

Appreciate your comments and I am by no means trying or want a flame war.

Sincerely,

GumShoeGrant
[/SIZE]

---

### Post by corrytonapple on 2011-05-18
Well, if you do not like Unity but still want 11.04, you can go to classic at login screen.  I want to try Unity, but have not had time to go through hoops to get it to even work.  Thats right, never even had it work once.  If you had to roll back, I would go to 10.04 since it is an LTS and I had support to sleep on this computer.
Just my opinion.

---

### Post by wojox on 2011-05-18
If your going to downgrade go to 10.04 LTS it's support is longer and should be more stable.

---

### Post by Larkspur on 2011-05-18
The key thing is that you have the choice.  As you've discovered, if you're not happy with Unity, you can choose Classic Gnome.  That said, 10.04 would be the way to go if you're wanting stability (while mostly stable, Compiz can be temperamental).

---

### Post by guilleme on 2011-05-18
Hi. Well, I would recommend 10.04 (or 10.10) better. I passed a very bad experience with 11.04. The update manager basically made the kernel unusable. I could only boot the memory tests! I am using 10.10 now, and I like it very much. If you want to use a LTS, then use 10.04. If not, you could consider 10.10, and then upgrading directly to 12.10 when it comes out. That's what I'm going to do :).

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-18
I'm sticking with 10.04 until Unity and Gnome Shell have the wrinkles ironed out; give it six months. If you want to gain confidence in linux then start with a stable release. My two cents.
Mint is also meant to be good and user-friendly. Avoid fedora.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-05-18
I am going to tell you something different. If you have to downgrade, go to 10.10. It is similar to but better than 10.04. Faster and smoother in all machines I have tested on and also has newer softwares (most you can get from ppas so it doesn't matter but some are more difficult, for example evince (document viewer) is horribly slow in 10.04 but vastly improved in 10.10 and you can't find .deb or ppa for that). 

10.10 will not expire until next April and by that time the next LTS will come out, so the reason for using an LTS for longer support cycle is moot. Go for the better OS and 10.10 is better than 10.04.

---

### Post by DevilSolution on 2011-05-18
Hi guys i have a similar issue to gumshoegrant however for totally different reasons, i do quite like UNITY and i like GNOME but i have no idea about the version of the upgrade, for example i went from the 2004 version straight to 2011.04 version. Therefore i have a few question 1) is it possible for me to go to 10.4 if i jumped to 11.4? 2) how do i go about downloading different GUI's such as xfce and lxde, do i have to downlaod different versions of ubuntu like xubntu or is that just a name used for a different environment. 

cheers in advance guys

---

### Post by ambar686413 on 2011-05-18
**[FONT="Courier New"][SIZE="4"][SIZE="2"][COLOR="Purple"]if you have most latest version ubuntu 11.04- Natty Narwhal for free downloading and free to explore.. the why will you use ubuntu 10.04- Lucid? use the upgraded version of ubuntu...stay happy with NATTY.[/COLOR][/SIZE][/SIZE][/FONT]**
if you still face the problem email me.. [EMAIL="ambar.mukrg@hotmail.com"]ambar.mukrg@hotmail.com[/EMAIL]:D

---

### Post by DevilSolution on 2011-05-18
Well im new to ubuntu so i plan on doing as much learning as possible, i thought it would be interesting to be able to switch between different versions i also find it a nice feature of linux to have multiple versions supported. To be honest i was more curious if it was possible more than anything, incase i ever have any issues. Also im more interested in changing my GUI than changing my update version. TY again.

---

### Post by ngronewold on 2011-05-18
I think the answer is to split the difference. 11.04 with Unity is clearly geared toward more mainstream computer users, but those who really know their way around an OS seem to prefer the classic Linux feel.  That tells me that Canonical should allow more thorough user customization -- 11.04 has a little already, but they could go deeper. Say, allow lay users to easily alter the OS look and feel to get close to a Mac or Windows experience, straight Unity or classic Linux Ubuntu.  Or to even customize toward an entirely new, creative look that the users themselves think up.

I had 10.04 and was reluctant to leave because of the long term support. But I took the plunge to 11.04 and love it -- though many of you hate the Unity icons on the left, for me it discourages desktop clutter (dozens of little folders scattered about) and cuts down on the number of steps I must take to access the most frequently used programs. Universal search is also a huge plus.

But if Linux is to even have a prayer of getting usage above 2% of all computers then 11.04 is the right direction. Next Canonical needs to convince OEMs to offer it as an alternative to Windows. And the entire Linux community needs to call Windows out on their patent lawsuit threat -- tell them to put up or shut up.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2011-05-18
10.10 or 10.04 for now until you learn to play a little. Tried 11.04 for 3 weeks and it wasn't for me. With gnome3 it's a lot better and hope to see 11.10 go a little more that way. The choice is yours. GL :)

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-18
Indeed, for me, 11.04 is not the way to go.  I still have 10.10 on my laptop, but I installed 11.04 to dual-boot with Windows on my desktop PC.  I have a few different "interesting" things that happen when I try Unity.  Special effects apparently make no difference.  I then go to "classic" using Gnome, and I still have some "interesting" things happen.  I can only speak for my experience, but I waited through a couple of updates to 11.04 and my problems still exist.  Some people have suggested work arounds, but when something simple used to work and is now broken, I don't need a work around - I need it fixed to at least work like it used to at a minimum.
 
So, only for me, I'm removing 11.04 and going back to 10.04 (so I still have LTS) on my desktop PC.  The laptop isn't as important, so I'm leaving it at 10.10 (which runs great).
 
My experience only - take from it what you may.

---

### Post by Jerry N on 2011-05-18
Try Linux Mint 11.  Built off Ubuntu 11.04 but with the old familiar Gnome desktop.  It is currently in RC status but so far it has worked quite well for me.  I had a good bit of trouble trying to make 10.04 work with my new Nvidia GT 430 graphics card.

Jerry

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-19
Give me one bonafide non-gui reason to switch to 11.04 at this time?

---

### Post by beew on 2011-05-19
> **jtarin said:**
> Give me one bonafide non-gui reason to switch to 11.04 at this time?

Exactly my thought. I can see no compelling performance reason to switch from 10.10 to 11.04 at all. I don't understand this mentality of upgrading the OS every 6 months just to keep pace with Canonical's release cycle. The only reason I can see that one may want to update to 11.04 from 10.10 would be Unity, either because you love it or simply want to explore it.

So I don't get the advice to upgrade/update to 11.04 and then use the classic desktop (or go for Mint for the "familiar gnome look"). What would be the point?

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-19
> **beew said:**
> Exactly my thought. I can see no compelling performance reason to switch from 10.10 to 11.04 at all. I don't understand this mentality of upgrading the OS every 6 months just to keep pace with Canonical's release cycle. The only reason I can see that one may want to update would be Unity, either because you love it or simply want to explore it.

So I don't get the advice to upgrade/update to 11.04 and then use the classic desktop (or go for Mint for the "familiar gnome look"). What would be the point?
Windows has ingrained in us the idea that we must all be "Upgrade Wh**es.:P

---

### Post by beew on 2011-05-19
> **jtarin said:**
> Windows has ingrained in us the idea that we must all be "Upgrade Wh**es.:P

But Windows doesn't release every 6 months. :)

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-19
> **beew said:**
> But Windows doesn't release every 6 months. :)Yea, but they update every hour to fix their last update/upgrade FU.

---

### Post by ngubk on 2011-05-19
If you want to keep your beloved Gnome-panel instead of Unity. then disable Unity in Compiz, then go to Startup application, add gnome-panel, restart, and you've a Maverick Meerkat with 11.04 support.

I recommend Gnome-do instead of Dashboard, because it's simply faster, cost less resource, and it's also a quick way to open folders

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-19
> **ngubk said:**
> If you want to keep your beloved Gnome-panel instead of Unity. then disable Unity in Compiz, then go to Startup application, add gnome-panel, restart, and you've a Maverick Meerkat with 11.04 support.Excuse my ignorance, but what support would that be?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-19
Wow thats a lot to think about, the person that said disable unity plug-in I am pretty sure that will break unity, so it is best to log in as ubuntu classic then have new people trying to do things that are going to break there system.

---

### Post by TAspr on 2011-05-19
> **ngronewold said:**
> I think the answer is to split the difference. 11.04 with Unity is clearly geared toward more mainstream computer users, but those who really know their way around an OS seem to prefer the classic Linux feel.  That tells me that Canonical should allow more thorough user customization -- 11.04 has a little already, but they could go deeper. Say, allow lay users to easily alter the OS look and feel to get close to a Mac or Windows experience, straight Unity or classic Linux Ubuntu.  Or to even customize toward an entirely new, creative look that the users themselves think up.

I had 10.04 and was reluctant to leave because of the long term support. But I took the plunge to 11.04 and love it -- though many of you hate the Unity icons on the left, for me it discourages desktop clutter (dozens of little folders scattered about) and cuts down on the number of steps I must take to access the most frequently used programs. Universal search is also a huge plus.

But if Linux is to even have a prayer of getting usage above 2% of all computers then 11.04 is the right direction. Next Canonical needs to convince OEMs to offer it as an alternative to Windows. And the entire Linux community needs to call Windows out on their patent lawsuit threat -- tell them to put up or shut up.

Amen to that!

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-19
Other than the Unity issue what else has changed from 11.04 and 10.04/10.10? Some say the stability issue.

---

### Post by Ni-el on 2011-05-19
Well it may depend on what machine you are using it on. I have an issue with my display on a three-year-old Sony with Intel graphics when trying to use 11.04. My solution was to go back to 10.10, then install Firefox4, and Gnome3 (it's called Gnome-3-session). I still add a Cairo dock to get the old style main menu because I didn't like the control panel that Ubuntu uses (same in Kubuntu) because it just doesn't have everything on it. The only other thing that I noticed was the deletion of Open Office and the switch to Libre Office.
Good luck.

---

### Post by Jerry N on 2011-05-20
> **jtarin said:**
> Yea, but they update every hour to fix their last update/upgrade FU.
In my experience, Ubuntu (and Mint) have about 10 times as many updates as Windows XP or Windows 7.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-21
> **Jerry N said:**
> In my experience, Ubuntu (and Mint) have about 10 times as many updates as Windows XP or Windows 7.You should get out more often. :P
Are you counting "Service Packs "? Besides....Linux updates are application updates about half the time.....newest version of Mahjongg!!!! Before I upgraded to 10.10.....I couldn't remember my last update for LUCID.For 10.10...very few and only at first upgrade.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2011-05-21
I upgraded to 11.04 to try unity and liked it, admittedly it needs some polish, particularly in the customizability(spelling?) department.

10.04 obviously is stable as hell and should be used if you need that, 10.10 is also stable at this point in time, give 11.04 a few months and it should be fairly stable as well.

Every new release I have ever used of any OS is buggy for the first month or so.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-21
> **jerome1232 said:**
> 
Every new release I have ever used of any OS is buggy for the first month or so.Quit bragging!!!:P

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-05-21
> **ngronewold said:**
> I think the answer is to split the difference. 11.04 with Unity is clearly geared toward more mainstream computer users, but those who really know their way around an OS seem to prefer the classic Linux feel.  That tells me that Canonical should allow more thorough user customization -- 11.04 has a little already, but they could go deeper. Say, allow lay users to easily alter the OS look and feel to get close to a Mac or Windows experience, straight Unity or classic Linux Ubuntu.  Or to even customize toward an entirely new, creative look that the users themselves think up.

I had 10.04 and was reluctant to leave because of the long term support. But I took the plunge to 11.04 and love it -- though many of you hate the Unity icons on the left, for me it discourages desktop clutter (dozens of little folders scattered about) and cuts down on the number of steps I must take to access the most frequently used programs. Universal search is also a huge plus.

But if Linux is to even have a prayer of getting usage above 2% of all computers then 11.04 is the right direction. Next Canonical needs to convince OEMs to offer it as an alternative to Windows. And the entire Linux community needs to call Windows out on their patent lawsuit threat -- tell them to put up or shut up.

I really disagree with this statement. I have not had a windows system on my computers for over 10 years. If you want to use 11.04 great or 10.10 great or 10.04 great. Linux is linux regardless what distro or version you use. Yes 11.04 has some bugs that needs to be corrected, but so did 10.04 and 10.10 when it was first released. The choice of the OS is your. Use what you feel comfortable with.

---

