---
title: "12.04 apt updates software-center dpkg issues"
date: 2016-10-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Matt_Devney on 2016-10-03
Hi all. First of all, in the spirit of openness and needing to acknowledge a cross-post, I've already asked this on askubuntu:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/831238/multiple-issues-when-updating-ubuntu-12-04-lts](http://askubuntu.com/questions/831238/multiple-issues-when-updating-ubuntu-12-04-lts)

Anyhow, here's the text from there, on here, in the hope that it gets a bit more attention!

  After having this machine in storage for a few months, I needed it  again. When switched on, it required over 200 updates. Which eventually  nearly all worked. I'm not sure which updates didn't work though.
  I'm now left in a situation where Ubuntu Software Centre tells me  that items cannot be installed or removed until the package catalogue is  repaired, and when I tell it to go ahead and repair now I find that the  Progress tab is stuck in a status where it's trying 'Searching' for  something (which I eventually cancelled, but now it's endlessly trying  to cancel the search) and the Repairing Installed software action is  'Waiting' for the Searching to finish (I think).
  On top of this and possibly turning this into a chicken and the egg  scenario, I have Update Manager notification which states that ```
Not all updates can be installed
``` and asks for a partial upgrade. Running that gets me to a Distribution Upgrade dialog, and the following error message:
  ```
Unable to get exclusive lock
This usually means that another package management application (like apt-get or aptitude) is already running. Please close that application first.
```
  Which I think is the Software Centre, but I'm not sure.
  I've done some searches on this forum and here is the output of one of the commands I think people will ask me to do:
  ```
matt@Matt-Latitude-D620:~$ sudo apt-get check
E: Could not get lock /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (11: Resource temporarily unavailable)
E: Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), is another process using it?
matt@Matt-Latitude-D620:~$  ps -ef | grep dpkg
root      2721  2655  0 14:45 pts/2    00:00:00 /usr/bin/dpkg --status-fd 14 --configure -a --force-confdef --force-confold
root      2723  2721  0 14:45 pts/2    00:00:00 /usr/bin/perl /var/lib/dpkg/info/linux-image-3.13.0-96-generic.postinst configure 
matt     14670  2665  0 16:44 pts/0    00:00:00 grep --color=auto dpkg
```
  Also, when I try to install software through the USC, I get this:
  The package system is broken
  If you are using third party repositories then disable them, since they are a common source of problems. Now run the following command in a terminal: apt-get install -f
  The following packages have unmet dependencies:
  grub-pc: Depends: grub2-common (= 1.99-21ubuntu3.18) but 1.99-21ubuntu3.19 is installed          Depends: grub-pc-bin (= 1.99-21ubuntu3.18) but 1.99-21ubuntu3.19 is installed
  I have already disabled third party repositories.
  Continuing to research this, I've run dpkg:
  ```
matt@Matt-Latitude-D620:~$ sudo dpkg --audit
Another process has locked the database for writing and might currently be
modifying it; some of the following problems might be because of that.

The following packages have been unpacked but not yet configured.
They must be configured using dpkg --configure or the configure
menu option in dselect for them to work:
 linux-image-generic-lts-trusty Generic Linux kernel image
 linux-generic-lts-trusty Generic Linux kernel image and headers

The following packages are only half configured, probably due to problems
configuring them the first time. The configuration should be retried using
dpkg --configure <package> or the configure menu option in dselect:
 linux-image-3.13.0-96-generic Linux kernel image for version 3.13.0 on 32 bit 
 grub-pc              GRand Unified Bootloader, version 2 (PC/BIOS version)

matt@Matt-Latitude-D620:~$
```

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2016-10-04
Have you tried the suggested commands in the terminal ? 

```
sudo dpkg --configure -a 
``` or ```
sudo apt-get -f install 


```

---

### Post by Matt_Devney on 2016-10-06
Hi! Thanks for answering. Yes, I've tried both of those:

matt@Matt-Latitude-D620:~$ sudo dpkg --configure -a
[sudo] password for matt: 
dpkg: error: dpkg status database is locked by another process
matt@Matt-Latitude-D620:~$ sudo apt-get -f install
E: Could not get lock /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (11: Resource temporarily unavailable)
E: Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), is another process using it?
matt@Matt-Latitude-D620:~$

---

### Post by QLee on 2016-10-06
> **Matt_Devney said:**
> ...
dpkg: error: dpkg status database is locked by another process
...
E: Could not get lock /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (11: Resource temporarily unavailable)
E: Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), is another process using it?


Hello Matt,

I tend to look at what the system is telling me and then use a search engine to try and find the errors that I don't completely understand.

In this case, first thing I would do is make sure I didn't have any other package manager running while I was trying to do the --configure -a. The system seems to think that another package manager already has a "lock". 

If it just a "stale lock", and no other package manager is running it is possible to force a removal of the lock but first it is wise to make sure that no other package manager is running in the background somewhere. In the past, I have forgotten about Synaptic open on different desktop and received an error like you have.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-10-06
> **Matt_Devney said:**
> ... and asks for a partial upgrade. Running that gets me to a Distribution Upgrade dialog, and the following error message

A 'partial upgrade' is offered only when you are upgrading from one release of Ubuntu (like 12.04) to another (like 14.04), but the release-upgrade has failed.
A 'partial upgrade' is NEVER offered when you are simply upgrading but remaining on the same release of Ubuntu.

The failure most commonly occurs when the user neglects to uninstall software from non-Ubuntu sources and PPAs.
Non-Ubuntu software sometimes causes version conflicts.
Ubuntu software undergoes a great deal of release-upgrade testing specifically to prevent such conflicts. 

Never agree to a 'partial upgrade' unless you know exactly what it means and are skilled at resolving version conflicts.
If the previous sentence is jibberish, then NEVER agree to a partial upgrade. The system is politely asking you if you are sure that you want to jump off a cliff.

While it is surely possible for us to help you fix your system (done it many times), it is generally useful only as a learning experience to improve your package management skills.
It's much faster to back up your data, wipe the system, and start fresh with 16.04.

---

### Post by QLee on 2016-10-06
> **ian-weisser said:**
> 
It's much faster to back up your data, wipe the system, and start fresh with 16.04.

Looks like good advice to me, Matt. And likely the fastest  way to solve your problem and get an upgraded system.

---

### Post by Matt_Devney on 2016-10-06
Thank you everyone for replying. I think I know where I am headed here, but for the sake of completeness:

I know about how there could be several package managers locking dpkg, and I think one of my greps in the original post was about trying to find out what it was, but all the advice on here and elsewhere about getting rid of a stale lock were of the "as a last resort" variety, and I wasn't sure I was there yet.

I'm surprised that the partial upgrade dialog box was one with such dire consequences. I was never trying to upgrade to the latest and greatest release - I'm not sure my ageing laptop would handle it for starters - but only responded to the GUI request as it presented itself in Update Manager. I admit my knowledge of package management is limited, but I am fairly sure I would've known if I had clicked on a 'upgrade to 1604' button! In any case, thank you Ian for the information about partial upgrade. I'll bear that in mind in future.

Finally, I am more than happy to just wipe this and start again. I was hoping this was not quite such a horrendous problem, but obviously it is so off I go. Now my only problem is to find another PC with which to create the bootable USB stick, which brings me right back to why I needed this system in the first place. First World Problems.

Thank you all again for your time. You are certainly more chatty than askubuntu! :-)

---

### Post by QLee on 2016-10-06
Since you posted in New to Ubuntu, generally people tend to make assumptions and try to keep it simple. We don't know how much you know, always a good idea to detail what you have already have tried.

One thing you might have tried would be system monitor, if I remember correctly, it is part of a standard install and the "Processes" tab might have led you to the process that had the lock. There could be other methods too.

Currently, I think you'll do fine and you can always try 16.04 live (after reading the release notes for it) to see if it will work on that system. Read the release notes for 14.04 too if you choose to install it:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseNotes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseNotes)

---

### Post by Matt_Devney on 2016-10-10
Hi QLee - sorry if I was in any way misleading - was not my intention. Trying to install 14.04 but coming up against the eternal install issue, for which I'll start a new thread. Probably not in 'New to Ubuntu' though, which I had not noticed this post had gone into!

---

