---
title: "10.04 LTS Fresh Install"
date: 2010-05-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Testrum on 2010-05-28
I've used Ubuntu before, stepped away from it awhile ago and now I'm back. I did a fresh install two nights ago and connected to my wifi using a WEP encryption and everything was fine.

I go to use it today and now its busted? I haven't done any updates or deleted any packages so I'm at a bit of a loss here. I've tried a fresh install of both Ubuntu and Kubuntu and neither have fixed my wifi connection.

My roommates can connect perfectly fine, they're running Windows Vista, although we were having router issues the other day.

I'm on a Toshiba laptop with an Ath5k wifi driver.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-05-28
It would help if you explained what **busted** means. You said you were having router issues, could something have changed?

I would also suggest you check the the Wireless tab in Network Manager, and make sure Available for all users is checked

---

### Post by Testrum on 2010-05-28
"Available to all users" is checked.

What I mean by busted is that it shows its trying to connect and the little icon in the system tray bounces back and forth for a minute or so before saying it can't connect and its not doing it with only my connection it does it with every wireless network I try.

I don't think anything has changed with the router they're still running default settings and nothing has appeared to change at all but I'll take a look into it.

I just don't understand what could've possibly happened to have it all of the sudden quit lol.

---

### Post by PGScooter on 2010-05-28
I don't know if this would help or not, but it might be interesting to know if wifi works from an Ubuntu Live cd or usb.

---

### Post by Testrum on 2010-05-28
> **PGScooter said:**
> I don't know if this would help or not, but it might be interesting to know if wifi works from an Ubuntu Live cd or usb.

Ooh, good thinking. I'll try it out and edit my post in a few.

**Edit:** booted up using the Live CD and wireless works without a hitch..this is quite odd lol.

---

### Post by Jakiejake on 2010-05-28
OMG TESTRUM Same Avatar LOL!

---

