---
title: "32/64"
date: 2011-08-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by DWEnvision on 2011-08-30
What kind of impact on performance would I have installing 32 bit Ubuntu on a 64 bit computer? Thanks.

---

### Post by BlinkinCat on 2011-08-30
I believe you should install 64 bit version on a 64 bit computer!

---

### Post by DWEnvision on 2011-08-30
> **BlinkinCat said:**
> I believe you should install 64 bit version on a 64 bit computer!

Why? Please forgive my ignorance. But what difference would there be?

---

### Post by BlinkinCat on 2011-08-30
It is my understanding that previous issues of 64 bit systems have largely been overcome and to get full value of the 64 bit machines that the 64 bit OS is preferable.

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2011-08-30
From what I have read, unless you are doing some serious calculating or serious photo or video stuff, you probably wouldn't see the difference.  That again is from what I have read.  I have never used a 64 bit computer.

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2011-08-30
> **DWEnvision said:**
> Why? Please forgive my ignorance. But what difference would there be?

There is a performance improvement. It is especially worth it if you are doing a lot of video transcoding. Otherwise it's no big deal. The 32 bit version used to be restricted to less than 4GB of RAM that it could actually use but PAE versions of the 32 bit kernel get around that (at a small performance cost). It's not the big deal that the jump from 16 bit to 32 bit was way back when

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-08-30
Check the phoronix website; they recently posted a comparison ([http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_natty_pae64&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_natty_pae64&num=1))

Will the normal user notice the difference while browsing the web or reading / writing emails? No; network conditions and your typing is what determines the performance :)

As indicated in posts above, if you have software that has to do massive calculations, you will benefit.

---

