---
title: "HOWDY Y'ALL Network help"
date: 2009-05-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mickeld on 2009-05-17
Hopefully the title got peoples attention. ALRIGHT! Here goes! I love Xubuntu. Period. I access it fine and the network manager says my internet is connected but when I try to access the internet I am unable to. I am on through my windows partition, which can access the net just fine. I am using Xubuntu 9.04, installed off of a USB stick. I have a DSL connection, and PPoE. I am connecting through a Belkin N wireless router F5D8233-4v3. 
 I decided to post a new thread because nobody seems to have my specific problem(aka internet connection but not be able to actually access the internet). Mayhaps I should try what other posts tell me to do 
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart

Then try to ping your router again.

I dont know what will work with my problem. Can someone give me some help please?

---

### Post by fly-by-night on 2009-05-17
If you're able to connect to your router but not the internet, then it's likely a DNS problem.  The way I solved it in 8.10 is by going to System/Preferences/Network Configuration OR right click the network icon in taskbar and Edit Connections. 

Select Wireless or your type of connection

Select your connection name and edit

Under IPv4 Settings/DNS Servers, enter the address.  This is the OpenDNS addresses I use: 208.67.222.222, 208.67.220.220.  Use whatever you prefer.

Hope it helps.

---

### Post by mickeld on 2009-05-17
Thats funny I use OpenDNS. I checked on both the Windows and Xubuntu Router settings and they are both set up with the same DNS IP etc etc address... any other ideas perhaps? I can tell ya I have been having one HELL of a time with 9.04... actually been considering uninstalling 9.04 and reinstalling 9.04 until they fix every bug!

---

### Post by mickeld on 2009-05-17
I meant REINSTALLING 8.10 sorry about that!

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-05-17
COuld you open an Applications-->Accessories-->Terminal and type:

```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

note the spelling, and paste the output in your next post.

---

### Post by mickeld on 2009-05-18
Hello! Instead of doing a copy paste all I did was write it word to word on a piece of paper.
here it is!
domain Belkin
search Belkin
nameserver 192.168.2.1

Thats all I got! And by my guess that is not good.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-05-19
That is wrong, the nameserver addresses should be the ones provided by your isp, this is what my resolv.conf looks like.

```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain aplus
search aplus
nameserver 64.59.168.13
nameserver 64.59.168.15
```

If you using Intrepid you should be able to go into Network Manager-->Edit Connections-->Ipv4 Settings and set it for DHCP Address only and add the dns addresses manually.

---

