---
title: "8.10 - lost taskbar"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Shandy1952 on 2008-11-07
I've managed to lose the taskbar at the bottom of my screen, I think by accidentally selecting "Remove this Panel". I'm finding it very difficult to reinstate. Is there an easy way to do this? I can't find any option or utility that provides an obvious way of doing this (though perhaps I haven't looked hard enough?)
Apologies for what must seem a really brainless problem and query.:(

---

### Post by asgard_command on 2008-11-07
If you still have the panel at the top of the screen right click it and select new panel. You can then right click the new panel and add to it whatever items you want.

---

### Post by Shandy1952 on 2008-11-07
OK, thanks, I've managed to add a panel at the bottom of the screen, and added various widgets and the taskbar, so I feel things are usable now. It doesn't look quite the same way it did after installation (!), but I expect I can work this out given time. In the meantime, if there is any really noddy way to restore my display to install-time defaults I'd be interested to hear of it.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by asgard_command on 2008-11-07
I don't think there is anyway to get back to the default setting automatically. But if you keep playing with the options you will probably find how to put it back exactly as it was. Though more likely you will find your own setup that you like better.
Personally I don't keep the bottom panel and just use a panel at the top which I customize to my own liking.

---

### Post by Karilex on 2008-11-07
Create a new user account and use this as a template to put things to back the way they were or just use this new account

---

### Post by Shandy1952 on 2008-11-08
Yes, thank you Karilex, very amusing.

Thanks to asgard_command for the help required. I now understand panels and the taskbar a bit better than I did.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-11-08
There's a thread on the kubuntu forums - seems to be the same deal - perhaps 
[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3089972.0](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3089972.0)

---

