---
title: "desktop effect could not be enabled!! help me!!"
date: 2009-01-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by taekr on 2009-01-21
Hi, 

I have been searching for a solution.. everywhere..  It's been few days. T T;;  

I can't not have desktop enabled. .. not even to Normal. It was ok until I updated a driver. I saw an icon in the taskbar saying there is something to be updated .. so I clicked and updated. AFter that, it's not working anymore. I belive I was using version 173 then updated to 177. I rolled back to 173 but the problem is still there. I removed everything with 'Nivida' in synatic manager then reinstall them.. but no use. 


Here is some output... which might help you understand my situation.  

mark@mark-laptop:~$ lspci | grep -i vga
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV41.8 [GeForce Go 6800] (rev a2)
mark@mark-laptop:~$ ./compiz-check
bash: ./compiz-check: No such file or directory
mark@mark-laptop:~$ glxinfo | grep -i render
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual or fbconfig
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".


Honestly, I have no idea why I'm posting these outputs but when I read other threads, these outputs were asked to be posted. so I'm posting them. Also.. xorg.conf" in "/etc/X11


# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:46 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic VX2835wm"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 76.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce Go 6800"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-01-21
System>admin>hardware drivers.

What choices does it offer ?

---

### Post by vanadium on 2009-01-21
For debugging purposes, it may help also to execute the command

```

compiz --replace

```

and post the terminal output here.

---

### Post by taekr on 2009-01-22
> **vanadium said:**
> For debugging purposes, it may help also to execute the command

```

compiz --replace

```

and post the terminal output here.

The following is what I got.. 


mark@mark-laptop:~$ compiz --replace
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: Segmentation fault
not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: Segmentation fault
not present. 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity

---

### Post by taekr on 2009-01-22
> **philinux said:**
> System>admin>hardware drivers.

What choices does it offer ?

Please find attached a screentshot

---

### Post by vanadium on 2009-01-22
I do not know if this will be of any help, but I see two screen sections in your xorg.conf. Perhaps you could try removing the "most complicated" of the two, the one mentioning nvidia and keep the other one, which probably is the original one.

What I am telling you now is not guaranteed to work, but is fully reversible if it would not work as expected.

* Maybe it is wise to disable the proprietary driver first and work with the open source driver (System - Administration - Hardware drivers in Ubuntu Hardy 8.04). Restart the system and see whether all is OK.

* Open a command terminal and make a backup copy of your current xorg.conf
```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.org

```
(this is the Absolute Beginners section, so apologize if I am to trivial here: "sudo" gives you administrator permissions for the command following it. You will be asked your user login password. Type it - you won't see anything happening while you are typing the password: this is normal)

* Then edit xorg.conf with root permissions

```

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

In a text console, you could use nano or vi instead of gedit.
Delete the section

```

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Device0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "TwinView" "0"
Option "metamodes" "DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
EndSubSection
EndSection

```

and save the file.

* Restart the system

* Now try reactivating the (recommended) proprietary driver (System - Administration - Hardware drivers) and see how it goes. Hopefully, you have now your "old" behavior back.

It is well possible that your system won't continue in graphical mode anymore. You will then be dropped on a command line. If that happens, you will need to revert, from the command line, to your original xorg.conf. That is why we made a backup copy. To restore your previous xorg.conf:

```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.org /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

Note: As a matter of fact, old xorg.conf files tend to linger around anyway. If my suggestion does not work, it might still be worthwhile to study differences between your current xorg.conf and older xorg.conf files on your disk. For example, these are remains I still have on my disk

```

vanadium@vanadium:~$ ls -al /etc/X11 | grep xorg
-rw-r--r--   1 root root  1621 2008-10-25 11:13 xorg.backup
-rw-rw-rw-   1 root root  1693 2009-01-18 18:00 xorg.conf
-rw-rw-rw-   1 root root  1666 2009-01-01 19:48 xorg.conf~
-rw-r--r--   1 root root  1650 2008-06-15 15:59 xorg.conf.20080615
-rw-r--r--   1 root root  1238 2008-06-22 19:28 xorg.conf.failsafe
vanadium@vanadium:~$ 

```

---

