---
title: "13.10 - website says it requires update to Shockwave"
date: 2014-01-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-12
My sister still have Windows XP on her laptop, and with support ending, and what I assume will be flood of security issues, I've talked to here and her husband about changing OS's, and my brother in-law said that since I use Linux perhaps I could convert her to that,

They want something that works with documents and spreadsheets from Microsoft Office, and it sounds like LibreOffice has that covered,

The other must-have is recreaional - a certain poker game found [here]("http://www.ledgaming.com/game/multi_strike_poker/play").  I've tried it in xubuntu 32-bit 13.10 and in regular ubuntu 64-bit 13.10.  Either way it says I need an updated Shockwave player.   I know linux shockwave development stopped at the release that is installed.  

Does anyone know if there is a way around this?

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-01-12
Chrome may work.

---

### Post by MrMichaelHill on 2014-01-12
Just tried it in chrome and got the same message as you buddy. I also have flash installed from the software centre, Clinking the Adobe link seems to take you to download from adobe but with only binaries for OSX and Windows.

My be worth checking some of these though:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1462017](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1462017)

This one is old but will still be possible now (WINE)
[http://www.ubuntux.org/shockwave-player-ubuntu-linux](http://www.ubuntux.org/shockwave-player-ubuntu-linux)

---

### Post by mcduck on 2014-01-12
Is it asking for "Shockwave", or "Shockwave Flash"  (usually known just as "Flash")? They are two very different things, and there is no (and has never been) a Shockwave plugin for Linux, so if that's really what it's asking for there's no point to even look for anything (apart from running a Windows browser and Shockwave plugin with Wine or in a virtual machine).

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-01-12
What about another poker site? There are plenty to choose from.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-12
> **mörgæs said:**
> What about another poker site? There are plenty to choose from. 

;)  WE know that, but she seems extremely "hooked" on this one as my brother in-law also plays it on his Win 7 laptop - I was pretty much "told" she wouldn't switch unless she had that game ;)  Jeezz........it IS just a game! ;)

At any rate, to answer some of the other posts:

- no, Adobe won't have a linux version on their site on the download page.  It is for one of the newer versions, and adobe quit any work with linux back at the version we have available in the repositories.

- briefly saw something last night but forgot to bookmark it (it was very late and I was pretty much asleep at the time ;) ) about some sort of package that sort of lays on top of Gnash and supposedly handles some of the newer things.  It is coming from a non-ubuntu repository so that was the thing that had me worried.

- yep, it shockwave player.  I already have been using the version available to us to keep up on a couple of simple games on shockware.com.  When I click on the message about needing a newer version, it takes me to the adobe download.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-12
Okay, I found (and bookmarded this time) what I had found late last night.  It is a page that talks about gnash, lightspark and some other piece that I've never heard of either.  I don't know what I did wrong, but I did try installing gnash, including the browser plug-in, from the repositories, but it doesn't show up in the plug-ins in EDIT: Firefox.

Does this lightspark sound like it may help me?

Thanks

---

### Post by mcduck on 2014-01-13
LIke I said, Adobe has never even made a Shockwave player for Linux (and neither did Macromedia before them). So there is no old version, or even any alternative plugin able to play Shockwave content. (Gnash, for example, is an alternative to the *Flash* plugin).

Interesting enough, the shockwave.com website seems to mainly have Flash content, not Shockwave ;) However the poker game site you are trying to get working *does* use Shockwave (not Flash) and therefore your only option would be the Windows browser & Shockwave plugin running with Wine or in a virtual machine.

(and yes, Macromedia's idea of adding "Shockwave" to all their product names after the Shockwave/Director success was really annoying thing to do, since it seems to cause confusion even years later when the company itself is long gone... )

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-13
I guess I was being EXTREMELY stupid - after all, it is listed as the flash-plugin, and there's the flash installer in the repos.  Oh well.  Good to know why the site isn't working - I'm just surpirsed is all.  On shockwave.com I'm able to play most any game I want to - I would have assumed that if I can play a game there I could play a game anywhere shockwave was needed.  So, with that in mind, why the 2 seperate products?  What does flash do that the the player doesn't and vice-versa?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-01-13
Try to install shockwave player with pipelight. [http://fds-team.de/cms/pipelight-installation.html](http://fds-team.de/cms/pipelight-installation.html) 
After April Pipelight won't work in Chrome/Chromium anymore so FF will be the only option for this. This is quite nifty, I don't know about shockwave player but have tested unity3d-player and silverlight (on Netflix) both work perfectly. 

P.S. You may also need a user agent switcher.

P.P.S lightspark and gnash are garbage, I have no idea why they even bother. The only thing that works are a few demos on Youtube.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-01-13
To save you the troubles of reading all these. Here are the instructions. 
```
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ehoover/compholio
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:mqchael/pipelight
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install pipelight-multi
```
**Close all your browsers **then run in the terminal

```
pipelight-plugin --unlock-plugin shockwave 
pipelight-plugin --enable shockwave
```

According to the link in my last post you don't need an agent switcher. The commands in the link are "sudo pipelight.." I don't think it is a good idea to run wine stuffs as root. So this is only enabled for the local user.

When you open FF again you the plugin will be installed (you will see the wine progress box showing that it is downloading and installing)

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-13
thanks!  it even shows enabling shockwave player in linux - I'll be trying that later tonight!

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-13
Couldn't resist - snuck it in now :)  and holy crap - it works!!!!!!

THANK YOU SO MUCH!!!!

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-13
Thought I'd add a thank you again - I showed my sister and she was excited!  She uses Yahoo mail, so there's no problem there, and she  uses Microsoft Office (I think mainly the word processor) and with LibreOffice installed I don't think there will be a problem there either!  So, after reviewing it with my brother in-law, it should be a green-light to wipe XP and put Ubuntu of some form - might go with xubuntu since the laptop is several years old.  I currenlty run xubuntu on my old laptop and that seems to perform better, not to mention the video chipset isn't supported in XBMC, so I doubt it would be worth my while trying to install "regular" ubuntu to test it - might try it from a DVD just to see how that works (assuming Unity is running when on the live media - I think it is).

So, again THANK YOU.  This news should get out to more people.

BTW - in the link, just below the ppa instructions you posted, is a box saying that the 2 seperate PPAs are no longer needed and they show a single PPA.  I tried that and it worked on my old laptop too!   Great piece of info you passed on to me!!

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-13
Hummmmm.......small problem: on both my xubuntu laptop (Firefox) and my ubuntu desktop (Firefox), after I closed the browser it no longer works when I open the browser.  Says it needs the Adobe Shockwave Player.   Seems kind of weird - it worked before I closed the browser, so I know the Shockwave Player is installed and activiated via pipelight.  I even tried the unlock and enable agaiin - they completed fine, but still nothing if Firefox.  Seems like it's not reloading the plugin after exit and restart.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-13
Going to remove the "solved" on this thread since I have run into this little snag.  The Shockwave player did work, so I would think it is something with it not starting up correctly when I restart Firefox.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-01-13
Maybe you can try disabling it (I guess the command would be "pipelight-plugin --disable shockwave"), remove the the folder .wine-pipelight and reinstall it. 

If it doesn't work you may want to ask the question here [https://answers.launchpad.net/pipelight](https://answers.launchpad.net/pipelight)
The developer is very helpful.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-14
Did the disable, remove pipelight and removed the .wine-pipelight folder.  Then I reinstalled pipelight, unlocked shockwave and enabled it.  I also noticed something about enable-firefox-plugins or some such thing so I did that as well.  So far, it's working again.  I guess time will tell when I shut down completely and then restart tomorrow.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-14
Okay, shutdown and rebooted, went back to the site, tried the game and nothing.  In addition Firefox appeared to be locked up.  I could move my cursor but nothing I clicked on, including minimiz, maximize and close did nothing.  I had to go up to my userid and shutdown there.  Upon reboot again, same problem, but Firefox let me move on.  I went to another site that uses the exact same game and it worked there.  Something mighty strange going on.  I'll try the link.  Thanks!!

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-01-14
From the link in my first post
> Some people experienced problems when you have Flash enabled at the same  time - if the browser freezes on the plugin start, try to disable all  versions of flash and check if this solves the issue.

Did you try that?

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-14
Jeez, you know I saw that but didn't even think about it!  Going to reset everything now and try again.  Thanks!

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-14
Well, just tried it.  Disabled shockwave first, then deleted the .winexxxx folder.  Started Firefox, in plug-ins I selected ask to activate for flash, then restarted Firefox.  Went to the game site, played 1 game.  Clicked "home" in Firefox.  The little spinning wheel that Firefox shows near the top when it is connecting froze and the screen went gray.  So, I just let it sit there this time and it eventually went to the home screen.  Closed Firefox, restarted, went to play the game - doesn't work.  I also noticed that Shockwave support via pipelight is noted as "experimental".  I posted what was happening in the link you posted so I'll see if anyone answers back there also.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-15
Ah-ha! It appears I shouldn't be judging it against the 2nd one that keeps working - the second one is from a site that says "flash" in the name, so I'd bet that one is using flash instead of shockwave player.  So, I'll just keep working with the people on the link to try to figure it out.

BTW - can someone tell me how:

- to tell if I'm using openGL
- to tell what type of rendering I'm using

I tried glxinfo, but it looks to me as if it is using AMD opengl - and the person replying in the help link made it sound like I should be using an open driver and opengl.  On my laptop it says the driver is radeon (it's an old laptop).  On my desktop I know it's using what ever is installed when you install flgrx-updates (needed it in place of just flgrx to support my 6450 card).

I think the idea is to see if it's a driver problem.  I'd sure like to try something "generic" but I'm not sure how to do that.  On my desktop I also don't want to lose my HDMI sound (needed flgrx-updates and radeon-sound (?)=1 in the boot line).

Thanks again, and thanks for any future help!

---

