---
title: ".rm player"
date: 2009-01-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by menschtx on 2009-01-08
I searched the forums here and there, but haven't found a good answer. I would like to watch Blender tutorials from [http://ocw.tufts.edu](http://ocw.tufts.edu). The video seems to open with default player and the screen comes up, but with an error: Location can't be found;
realAudio document, what should firefox do, I have selected open with Movie Player (default) Totem Movie Player "error occurred" location not found. I will try and save it and try again....and still getting the same error. I just upgraded to ubuntu 8.10 and have had no problems. Your suggestions are greatly appreciated.
I reckon I need an update to the Totem Movie Player.

---

### Post by perlluver on 2009-01-08
Go to this website [https://player.helixcommunity.org/](https://player.helixcommunity.org/) and download the Real Player deb file, and let us know if they play after you install it.  Or you can install the Helix player from Add/Remove under the Applications Menu.

---

### Post by menschtx on 2009-01-24
I downloaded both RealPlayer11 gold and installed the Helix. Both open ok, but when attempting to open a file from the location - desktop. Also after downloading from the website, I received the error: 
Requested file not found. The link you followed may be outdated or inaccurate.(rtsp://139.64.3.3:554/drl21/selectingfaces.rm? cloadkport=8080%2c554)
After this and the two new player I will seek some other video tutorials, possibly the file is out of date, but being an university I would think they keep files upto date for student viewing.

---

