---
title: "12.04 issues"
date: 2013-01-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by a77ssii on 2013-01-07
Okay, finally broke down and upgraded and need some help solving problems before I give up on Ubuntu.
1) I hate that bar on the left, can I go back to a "classic" style like the previous version?
2) When I try and open Evolution it give me the message I have to migrate my account over to a new style but when I hit migrate it shuts down and brings up Firebird.  I have used both and prefer the layout of Evolution.  Is there a way I can manually move my emails and contacts into the new Evolution format?
3) Can LibreOffice be removed and OpenOffice be installed?  Again, I've used OpenOffice for 10+ years and prefer it.

In the previous version of Ubuntu after the first upgrade I lost my wireless, now it's back which makes things easier but does not out weigh the issues above.  I am about at wits end and ready to move to another distro more like Heron.  This is waaaayyyy too "windowsish" for me.  If I can solve the above problems and get things back to the way they were I'd rather not hassle with installing another distro.
Thanks All.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-01-07
#1

```
sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback
```And choose your desktop at login.

#2  Dont know

#3

OpenOffice is in the software center, install it and remove LibreOffice.

Some Gnome Classic tweaks:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseGnomeClassicTweaks](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseGnomeClassicTweaks)

---

### Post by drawkcab on 2013-01-08
This is another option for you to think about.  I had a lot of naggy issues when i upgraded from 10.04.  You might want to consider backing up your files and executing a fresh intall of 12.04.  It worked wonders for me.  12.04 is really excellent from a fresh install.

As per #1, Gnome 2 is dead so you'll have to go with a new desktop environment.  XFCE is probably the closest to Gnome 2, so you instead of installing ubuntu 12.04, you might want to install Xubuntu 12.04. 

As per #2, Thunderbird will be installed in Xubuntu by default but you can easily install evolution.  Starting from a fresh installation, you shouldn't encounter the sort of trouble you're describing.

As per #3, you can install either Libre or Open Office.  Libre has been forked from Open Office and many of the developers that used to work on Open Office now work on Libre Office.  Libre's advantage is that it will see more frequent updates and support.

Well, quite a bit has happened since 10.04 so it'll take a bit to catch up.  Good luck with whatever you decide.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-01-08
As above, Xubuntu could be for you, but if you want to try just the desktop environment to try it out first, install xfce4 from Synaptics or Software Centre, log out, choose 'xfce session' (or something like it) from the Sessions popup, log in.

You can go back to Unity the same way.

---

### Post by iMac71 on 2013-01-08
As per #2, the following guide might be helpful:[Howto migrate from Thunderbird to Evolution](http://www.linuxquestions.org/linux/answers/Applications_GUI_Multimedia/Howto_migrate_from_Thunderbird_to_Evolution)

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-01-08
> **a77ssii said:**
> Okay, finally broke down and upgraded and need some help solving problems before I give up on Ubuntu.
1) I hate that bar on the left, can I go back to a "classic" style like the previous version?

Yes, and you've been told how above - however, don't dismiss the Unity desktop just because it's different. It's actually a very modern, cleverly-designed and helpful desktop once you get used to it.

I suggest trying to stick with it for a week. By that time you may just love it and never want to go back to Gnome 2.

> 3) Can LibreOffice be removed and OpenOffice be installed?  Again, I've used OpenOffice for 10+ years and prefer it.

I don't understand what you want to do, sorry.

Libreoffice is Go-OO, which is the fork of Openoffice that Ubuntu used to ship with. Go-OO is Openoffice with additional features. Therefore, Libreoffice is Openoffice with additional features.

I'm not sure how you can prefer Openoffice? Unless you haven't yet opened Libreoffice to actually see what it looks like - which is, identical to Openoffice!

---

### Post by a77ssii on 2013-01-08
I worked with what ibjsb4 suggested and did a lot more but to no avail, it's tolerable but barely.  I'm playing with puppy on another system and will probably go with it or for that matter back to 9.04.  Not sure yet (I REALLY like puppy).  For my uses 12.04 is too bloated and slow. I want a fast, small OS with only the things I use.  Like a stripped down race car, not a cadillac escalade.   I had 10.04 set up with only OpenOffice, a music player, evolution mail and firefox.  It was fast and problem free, now with 12.04 I feel like I might as well just boot into windows 7.  Sorry Ubuntu developers, in my world 12.04 is a 100% miss.  I'll never go back to windows and will always keep playing with different flavors of Linux just probably not Ubuntu again.
***Thank you to everyone who has posted help,*** that is why I've kept working with Ubuntu is the community but at this fork in the road I'm headed another direction.

---

### Post by Buntu Bunny on 2013-01-08
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> As above, Xubuntu could be for you.....

Do try this. It solved all my issues.

---

### Post by BBQdave on 2013-01-08
> **drawkcab said:**
> This is another option for you to think about.  I had a lot of naggy issues when i upgraded from 10.04.  You might want to consider backing up your files and executing a fresh intall of 12.04.  It worked wonders for me.  12.04 is really excellent from a fresh install.

+1 for fresh install of 12.04 :D

Ubuntu Unity 12.04 is on new hardware. On old hardware, running Debian 6 Gnome 2 with backports. Debian 6 is supported for awhile longer, but if you are looking for Gnome 2 - it lives on as MATE in Linux Mint.

If you try Linux Mint, I would recommend Maya LTS - MATE edition with backports enabled :D

---

### Post by a77ssii on 2013-03-03
Ok, all done.  Xubuntu is installed, stripped down and working.  Thus far no issues.  Everything is working correctly again from my wireless and webcam to my usb ports. I'm going to keep "mining" for more distro's and trying them out to see if maybe there is something I like better but at least now things are back to normal.  Thanks for the suggestion Buntu Bunny.

---

### Post by jim Kane on 2013-03-03
> **a77ssii said:**
> Ok, all done.  Xubuntu is installed, stripped down and working.  Thus far no issues.  Everything is working correctly again from my wireless and webcam to my usb ports. I'm going to keep "mining" for more distro's and trying them out to see if maybe there is something I like better but at least now things are back to normal.  Thanks for the suggestion Buntu Bunny.

If you like Xubuntu with Xfce window management GUI and the Speed and small size of Puppy try
 XFCE 4.10 Puppy Linux
it is absolutely blooming brilliant.
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/latestxfcepuppy/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/latestxfcepuppy/)

jk

---

### Post by darkcrimson on 2013-03-03
Xubuntu, ftw.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-03-04
If you consider this solved could you please mark it as Solved to help othere. Cheers. ;)

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2013-03-04
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> If you consider this solved could you please mark it as Solved to help othere. Cheers. ;)Is that thread tool now working again?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-04
Temporary workaround for solved until new plug-in gets added which may take a bit.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2121377](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2121377)

---

