---
title: "Dual Boot and WiFi Network"
date: 2012-11-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ramoj02 on 2012-11-08
Hello,

I just installed Ubuntu 12.10 on my laptop alongside with Windows using WUBI. The problem I'm currently having right now is WiFi connection. My Ubuntu would connect to WiFi but it would not go to any website (or ping any website). Wired connection works just fine. I ran ifconfig and under wlan0, I can see that I have the right configurations (DHCP). Under Windows, checked my configurations also and it has the exact same configurations as Ubuntu. Same IP, subnet, and of course, gateway. Aren't the two OS's suppose to have different network configurations, different IP at least?

Thank you!

---

### Post by Unity User on 2012-11-08
The router uses the system's mac address to assign the IP, which is why you have the same IP in both OSes on the same machine.

---

### Post by ramoj02 on 2012-11-08
> **Unity User said:**
> The router uses the system's mac address to assign the IP, which is why you have the same IP in both OSes on the same machine.

That's what I thought. So how come I am not getting any network connection on my Ubuntu even if it's connected to the wireless router? Plus, wired connection works fine. Any ideas? Thanks!

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-11-10
Please run the following in a terminal when you 'seem' connected :
```
wget -N -t 5 -T 10 http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script && chmod +x wireless_script && ./wireless_script
```
It will download and run a script that will collect all relevant info and dump it to a file named "netinfo.txt" in your 'Home' directory. Open that file and copy-paste its contents here in your new post (paste it between 'code' tags generated by clicking on **#** at the top of the edit box in which you create new posts).

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-11-11
> **ramoj02 said:**
> 

I just installed Ubuntu 12.10 on my laptop alongside with Windows using WUBI. 

This cannot be happening. 

WUBI is a virtual installation and performed from within Windows. You didn't install Ubuntu alongside Windows , you installed Ubuntu inside Windows. 

WUBI install is only to test and see Ubuntu Operating System. 

My suggestion is to perform a regular dual-boot. From Ubuntu LiveCD-USB. 

Thanks

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-11-11
> **NikTh said:**
> My suggestion is to perform a regular dual-boot. From Ubuntu LiveCD-USB.
I agree with Nik ^^. However, I'd like to clarify that doing so isn't going to make any difference to the wifi problem. So the troubleshooting steps and possible solutions will be same there.

Once up and running, a wubi installation is no different than a regular install except for a minor performance difference (due to being run from within a 'virtual disk file' instead of a real physical disk), size limit, and some disk access difference. Except for the 'root' partition (which would be a physical partition in a regular installation), it uses the same hardware, with same settings and drivers, and has same level of access to them.

Therefore, calling it a 'virtual' installation may be misleading for newbies IMHO. But yes, it is meant for testing purpose only - providing an easy, safe way to give a taste of ubuntu to windows users. But again, with windows 7 and above, it is so much prone to breakdowns (due to windows interference) that it is always recommended to try Ubuntu in a live environment, then if you like it, do a full, proper installation on its own partition. It'll be faster, stable and free of restrictions.

---

### Post by mrpr3sid3nt on 2012-11-11
I have a similar problem to ramoj02, except in reverse!

I have dualboot Win 7 and Ubuntu 12.04. 
I can connect to the internet no problem in Ubuntu.
In Win 7 I can connect to my local network and it shows as having internet connection, but I can not browse the internet. I have tried running the following commands in cmd

netsh winsock reset catalog
netsh int ip reset reset.log hit

I have tried unplugging my router, running win7 network troubleshooter, resetting my wireless card.

I can not seem to find a solution, I don't know what is causing the problem.

Any help would be appreciated.

Thanks.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-11-12
> **mrpr3sid3nt said:**
> I can connect to the internet no problem in Ubuntu.
In Win 7 I can connect to my local network and it shows as having internet connection, but I can not browse the internet..
Since the problem is in windows environment, you'd be receiving much better help in a windows7 forum.

As a starting point, you may compare the output of nm-tool with 'ipconfig' in windows (match IP, gateway, dns - all should be same). If they don't match, manually assign them; if they match and still you can't connect, check (or disable) any firewall you have there, or check your browser settings (hint : offline, proxy, etc.), or just try using another browser.

---

### Post by mrpr3sid3nt on 2012-11-14
> **varunendra said:**
> 

As a starting point, you may compare the output of nm-tool with 'ipconfig' in windows (match IP, gateway, dns - all should be same). If they don't match, manually assign them; if they match and still you can't connect, check (or disable) any firewall you have there, or check your browser settings (hint : offline, proxy, etc.), or just try using another browser.

Thanks for your answer, I have tried comparing ipconfig to nm -tool and changing my win 7 settings to match, but that didn't seem to help. I have also tried disabling firewall and other browsers.

I have posted on the Win 7 forum, so hopefully someone will have encountered a similar problem / be a little more familiar with the settings and ridiculous amounts of menus in Win 7 than I am! 

Thanks.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-11-14
> **mrpr3sid3nt said:**
> I have tried comparing ipconfig to nm -tool and changing my win 7 settings to match, but that didn't seem to help. I have also tried disabling firewall and other browsers..Sorry for not being able to offer you anymore help on this. Good luck on the win7 forums !

---

### Post by mrpr3sid3nt on 2012-11-19
I have managed to resolve this problem with help from the Win7 forum, here is the link in case anyone else has the same problem and ends up here!

[http://www.sevenforums.com/network-sharing/264438-dual-boot-ubuntu-12-04-cant-connect-internet-win-7-a.html](http://www.sevenforums.com/network-sharing/264438-dual-boot-ubuntu-12-04-cant-connect-internet-win-7-a.html)

Thanks for your help :) :)

---

### Post by mlentink on 2012-11-19
> **NikTh said:**
> This cannot be happening. 

WUBI is a virtual installation and performed from within Windows. You didn't install Ubuntu alongside Windows , you installed Ubuntu inside Windows. 

WUBI install is only to test and see Ubuntu Operating System. 

My suggestion is to perform a regular dual-boot. From Ubuntu LiveCD-USB. 

Thanks

Common misconception.

There is nothing 'virtual' about a wubi install, perhaps maybe for the way the install is stored within an ntfs container, a 'virtual disk' if you like. But that would be splitting hairs. Once started ubuntu runs exactly the same as in a 'real' dual-boot situation. Please see [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide)

A wubi install may use the windows boot loader, it does NOT need windows to boot

---

### Post by mlentink on 2012-11-21
@ramoj02 : You're the OP. Did any of our replies resolve your issue yet?

---

