---
title: "Nvidia Xorg"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Kdawkins on 2008-04-26
Hey all,

I downloaded the nvidia driver from their website, restarted in shell and installed it successfully. My computer still restarts in low graphics mode and when I try to run the nvidia-settings, I get told that the Nvidia X Driver is not being used. It then tells me to do sudo nvidia-xconfig and hit Ctrl Alt Backspace to restart the xorg server. When I do that, my screen goes black and stays that way, I have to restart my computer.

Any suggestions?

thanks,
kevin

---

### Post by Kdawkins on 2008-04-26
Well, I tried envyng, and that diddnt help at all, same problem.....
Also I am running in low graphics mode so my res is 800x600 instead of its normal 1280x1204

here is my xorg.conf if anyone is interested.

```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

	# generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

	# generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Zralou on 2008-04-26
Try manually editing the 'HorizSync' and VertRefresh' with the correct settings for your monitor.  I used google to find what mine were, or sometimes its printed on the monitor somewhere.

Sara Lou

---

### Post by Tatty on 2008-04-26
According to your xorg the correct drivers should be loaded.

Not totally sure if this is the correct way of checking, but i believe you can see if the nvidia driver is loaded by running```
lsmod | grep nvidia
```  This should output all modules running which match the string "nvidia".  If it lists "nvidia" as a module in the output then it should be loaded.

Try using the Screens and Graphics manager, which is somewhere in the System menu (not on a ubuntu desktop atm so cant check), and see if you can use that to select the right.

Failing that try ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg 
``` to reconfigure X

---

### Post by martrn on 2008-04-26
I do not know the answer to your question, but I have read and searched google about installing the nvidia drivers.  If you install the nvidia unix/linux drivers from nvidia, then it will compile a kernel module (or drive) based on the headers for you current kernel and drop in a binary blob at a certain point.  This works for some nvida cards but not for others.

If you install the restricted drivers for nvidia then it is a binary blob from the nvidia drivers, specifically compiled for the ubuntu kernels i386, generic, server ect.

I would recommend uninstalling everything nvidia-ish from your system and only install one or the other either via apt-get ubuntu restricted repositories or the nvidia shell script, to drop in you binary kernel module.  Install both is likely to conflict with each other.

The only diffrence I can see between my XORG and yours is I have
```
Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection
```

and you have:
```
Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection
```

I have to install the nvidia drivers/binaryblobs from nvidia as I compile my own kernel (goodness if flys), so do know about the repositry settings for XORG.

---

### Post by Kdawkins on 2008-04-26
ok I did the 
```

lsmod | grep nvidia

```

and got

```

nvidia               3934028  0 
agpgart                34760  2 nvidia,ati_agp

```


whats odd though, is when I run the nvidia manager and it tells me to do the x-config, it seems to work right (see below)
 
```

Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".
Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

```

but I still get "low graphics mode" when I do CTRL ALT BACKSPACE.

If I disable the nvidia driver, I get the normal screen resolution, but no effects.

Earlier I did the compile kernel thing for the nvidia driver, and it diddnt have any effect :-(

any other ideas?

---

### Post by Kdawkins on 2008-04-27
Are other Nvidia 8800 gts 320 users having this problem also or is it just me?

---

### Post by Paul1200 on 2008-04-28
You are not alone, I appear to have exactly the same problem. Hope someone can come up with a solution. Until then its back to Windows for a while.

---

### Post by Caraibes on 2008-04-28
> **Paul1200 said:**
> You are not alone, I appear to have exactly the same problem. Hope someone can come up with a solution. Until then its back to Windows for a while.
Just to add my 2 cents:
I also have been locked out of my GUI account, after one day of using the proprietary Nvidia drivers installed by "restricted". I fixed it with a reboot and choosing "recovery mode" in the grub menu. Once there, there is a "FixX" option. It worked fine for me... What it did was getting me back to the Free drivers...

---

