---
title: "12.04 64bit sound works only in headphones"
date: 2013-02-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Magrim on 2013-02-21
Hello.

Just bought Dell Inspiron 15z 5523. Sound worked fine in Windows 8.
After installing Ubuntu 12.04 64bit, sound only works through headphones. Built in speakers are silent.

~# cat /proc/asound/card0/codec#* | grep Codec

```
Codec: IDT 92HD91BXX
Codec: Intel PantherPoint HDMI
```

~# aplay -l

```
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: PCH [HDA Intel PCH], device 0: 92HD91BXX Analog [92HD91BXX Analog]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: PCH [HDA Intel PCH], device 3: HDMI 0 [HDMI 0]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
```

also checked alsamixer, and usual audio controls (and pavucontrol).

tried to add records in /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf like:
options snd-hda-intel model=auto


It`s for four evenings I googled and tried different solutions. Please, can you suggest something to me? Maybe I missed something obvious?

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2013-02-21
Well done for having a go at doing it yourself and explaining the steps you already took. There is one very obvious route of inquiry you followed - Google! ;) which can still yield more results.

I Googled for ubuntu "Intel PantherPoint HDMI"  and found this:

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+question/210103](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+question/210103)

Look at the second last response in that bug report, by Mark Rijckenberg:
  > Your PC's soundcard contains a very new sound codec called ALC280.
 Please install the patch alsa-hda-dkms_0.1_all.deb as explained in #3 in the following bugreport:
So presumably all you have to do is install this .deb file 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1017017/+attachment/3203253/+files/alsa-hda-dkms_0.1_all.deb](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1017017/+attachment/3203253/+files/alsa-hda-dkms_0.1_all.deb)

and it should fix your problem. Let's hope it works!

.

---

### Post by Magrim on 2013-02-22
Thanks for trying.

I wasn`t able to install this patch (make.log is attached):

```
Error! Bad return status for module build on kernel: 3.5.0-24-generic (x86_64)
Consult /var/lib/dkms/alsa-hda/0.1/build/make.log for more information.
dpkg: error processing alsa-hda-dkms (--install):
```

In that bug report I also checked a previous message, and run a command

cat /proc/asound/{version,cards,devices,hwdep,pcm,seq/clients}

```
...
00-03: HDA Codec 3
00-00: HDA Codec 0
00-00: 92HD91BXX Analog : 92HD91BXX Analog : playback 1 : capture 1
00-03: HDMI 0 : HDMI 0 : playback 1
...
```

So it seems that my codec is not ALC280.
========
Also I updated ALSA drivers, using this guide:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/UpgradingAlsa/DKMS](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/UpgradingAlsa/DKMS)

The package I installed is: alsa-hda-lts-quantal-dkms_0.201302210020~precise1_all.deb

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2013-02-22
OK, sorry about that. Here is a bug report affecting 92HD91BXX which you appear to have. The solution suggested is to try kernel 3.7.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/1091871](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/1091871)

It's always worth looking around on Launchpad for solutions because the solutions suggested are often provided by the developers themselves.

---

### Post by Magrim on 2013-02-22
I tried following kernel versions:
3.6.0
3.7.0
3.7.9
3.8.0
3.8.0 from daily folder

with some of them interface (and sudo command in terminal) got frozen.
with all of them speakers and wi-fi haven`t worked.

I also checked all four bug reports on launchpad and tried some solutions.

I think my last hope is to file a bug report to bugs.launchpad.net .

On a positive note: I found a pipe symbol on my keyboard :D

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2013-02-22
Yeah, go ahead and do the launchpad thing, it's probably beyond our competence here.

.

---

