---
title: "How to automount partitions on startup, deluge on startup gives diskerror"
date: 2008-07-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by quraid on 2008-07-06
Hi guys
i have setup deluge to start with ubuntu. the problem is that the files are being saved in a windows partition. so it gives error saying there is no space in the disk. i then have to double click on the requisite partitions and only then deluge can start downloading. how can i automount the drives on startup itself so that deluge can go on downloading merrily without any interaction needed from me?

second issue is;
i am currently downloading a 2 gig file. the file was was 20% over when i restarted ubuntu. then i got the above mentioned disk error and had to mount partition. however on starting the torrent download, it started at 0%. :confused:
any way to fix it?

regards.

---

### Post by Troll_the_Great on 2008-07-06
About the first problem.Install ntfs-config and the windows partitions will auto-mount.
```
sudo apt-get install ntfs-config
```
See this links for more help:
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/widows-ntfs-partitions-readwrite-support-made-easy-in-ubuntu-feisty.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/widows-ntfs-partitions-readwrite-support-made-easy-in-ubuntu-feisty.html)
Hope this helps.
Cheers!

---

### Post by NikS on 2008-07-06
Check these threads out:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=820635](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=820635)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=849426](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=849426)

---

### Post by quraid on 2008-07-06
my drive is not being shown in the config tool. :(

my drive partitions are

160 Gb internal HD
>>130 Gb NTFS WIndows partition (C:/)
>>25 Gb Ubuntu partition
>>2 Gb swap space

500 Gb internal HD
>>150 Gb NTFS d:/
>>150 Gb NTFS e:/
>>150 Gb NTFS f:/

the config tool shows the partitions of my second HD but not my 160 Gb one.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-07-06
i get the same errors, and could not find a fix. but i live with it because i  think it's a great torrent client. if you go to preferences and set it to "ask where to save each download" then point it to where the torrent files are, it will pick up where it left off.

---

### Post by quraid on 2008-07-06
yep. its a great client. i get much faster speeds on it than i ever got on 
windows + utorrent.

But downloading torrents is the main use for this old computer and the current situation is making this switch to ubuntu somewhat painful. i like to leave this computer on always and even if there is a powercut or a restart for any reason, i want to to resume downloading without it needing me to intervene.

Niks- thanks for the links. the one about amarok problem seems very similar to my issue. its getting late in the night here. i'll give that a try tomorrow. thanks again guys.

---

### Post by NikS on 2008-07-06
Actually even I am facing similar problem my comp n havent found a fix yet!!

But I have a complication that one of my drives is damaged, so that partioners like partionmagic doesnt even detect the drive filesystem type!! m still working on it, trying things from the posts I mentioned!!!
:)
I Hope i find something!!

---

### Post by quraid on 2008-07-07
ok. its solved now. an hour's worth of boffinary and RTFA finally worked.
now my harddiskas auto mount on start.
i don't know if it will help anyone or not, but this is the step by step walkthrough of what i did.

1. Open Nautilus and goto computer:///.
2. Now mount all drives present there by right clicking them and selecting the mount option.
3. Open Administration>> system monitor
4. Open File systems tab and take screenshot. this gives you the device names. before you do anything, unmount all the drives.
5. now Open terminal and type
```
sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.bak
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```
this backs up the fstab file and opens it for editing.
6. before editing the file looked like this;
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=1c180a3b-0138-415b-997d-1883dd1df158 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=cd91705d-414d-4fec-b4f1-996565b97afa none swap sw 0 0
/dev/sdc1 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb7 /media/Lonely\040Isles ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
```

7. read the last few lines and check the screenshot for the device name for the drive that you want to automount. it should give you the idea of the line that you want to add.
8. if you didn't get it, try adding this line at the end;
```
dev/sda1 /media/Darkmires ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
```
dev/sda1 was the device name of the drive in the screenshot. replace it with your device name. 
/media/Darkmires is the directory name of the drive in the screenshot. replace it with your directory name. 
9. once done my fstab file looked like this;
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=1c180a3b-0138-415b-997d-1883dd1df158 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=cd91705d-414d-4fec-b4f1-996565b97afa none swap sw 0 0
/dev/sdc1 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb7 /media/Lonely\040Isles ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

#Entry for dev/sda1
dev/sda1 /media/Darkmires ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
```
10. save the file. close all programs and type "init 6" in the terminal. the system should restart with the drives automounted. :)

---

