---
title: "Dial up issues..."
date: 2009-09-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Tomken on 2009-09-14
Hi!  I have followed the methods here; [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto/SetUpDialer#head-f229b8b898575bbd996c4dac3de0772d430f2a02](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto/SetUpDialer#head-f229b8b898575bbd996c4dac3de0772d430f2a02)

I have managed to get the modem detected and it dials up using gnome-ppp just fine.  It was disconnecting after 2 seconds or so, but I changed the settings as recommended and it stays "connected" now.  The question is, to what?  I have the computer hooked to both my cable high speed isp through my router, and I have the phone wire connected to the PCI card modem.  I have already run scanmodem and installed the driver for it.  The modem is detected in gnome-ppp/setup/ as /dev/ttySHCF0.  Like I said, it says I am connected, but if I disconnect the router wire I cannot pull up web pages.  I get page not available messages in firefox.

I get the feeling I have messed up some setting somewhere...  I "numbered" out some lines with gedit among other things.  I must be close to making the dial up connection work though!

Thanks.

---

### Post by Tomken on 2009-09-15
I was also wondering if it could be the DNS server addresses?  

I have tried just about everything and am worried I am making things worse now.  I must be close.

Thanks in advance to anyone that might help...

---

### Post by Tomken on 2009-09-15
Back again.  I tried what I found here;  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1256044&highlight=connection+needed](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1256044&highlight=connection+needed)
No luck.  The modem is detected and gnome-ppp dials the correct number.  Handshake goes down and it shows as connected just like for the folks at that link above, but no access to anything.  Page load errors etc.  

Here is the connection log.  (Looks like it's having trouble)

--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
--> Cannot set information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT6047020763
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L3DT6047020763
CONNECT 115200 
--> Carrier detected.  Starting PPP immediately.
--> Starting pppd at Tue Sep 15 07:27:33 2009
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky.
--> Pid of pppd: 4565
--> Using interface ppp0
--> local  IP address 207.102.xxx.xxx
--> remote IP address 207.102.xxx.xxx
--> primary   DNS address 204.174.64.1
--> secondary DNS address 204.174.65.1

I can't seem to find the problem...  
Please, please help!  I am trying to set Ubuntu up on a friends 'puter.  He thinks Linux is too complicated.  I don't want to prove him right just because of my mistakes...  

Thanks

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-09-15
what does Telus say about your difficulties?

.

---

### Post by _duncan_ on 2009-09-15
Check if firefox starts in "Work Offline" mode while on dial-up. This is a known issue among dial-up users.

There is a possibility that the Network Manager doesn't recognize the existence of a dial-up connection, hence Firefox will start in "Work Offline" mode.

---

### Post by Tomken on 2009-09-15
> **LewRockwell said:**
> what does Telus say about your difficulties?

.

Don't know...  They haven't returned my call.  I'll try again in a bit.

> _duncan_  	
Re: Dial up issues...
Check if firefox starts in "Work Offline" mode while on dial-up. This is a known issue among dial-up users.

There is a possibility that the Network Manager doesn't recognize the existence of a dial-up connection, hence Firefox will start in "Work Offline" mode.

I followed all the instructions here (except minicom);
> [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto/SetUpDialer#head-f229b8b898575bbd996c4dac3de0772d430f2a02](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto/SetUpDialer#head-f229b8b898575bbd996c4dac3de0772d430f2a02)
It includes using network manager to connect.  Didn't work though...
I have firefox set to use system proxies under the network tab.  I see nothing relating to offline use.  The "File/ "work offline" box is unchecked.  I will look into the network manager some more though.  Sounds about right.

Have to finish an engine for a spell.  Back in 2 hours max.

Thanks for the replies!

---

### Post by Tomken on 2009-09-15
As I play with network manager, it keeps fading out briefly, then it loses all the settings I just put in!  Earlier, when I was trying the code from here; > [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1256044&highlight=connection+needed](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1256044&highlight=connection+needed)
this is what terminal was showing; 
> $* is no longer supported at /usr/sbin/pppconfig line 1619.
tomken@tomken-desktop:~$ sudo gedit /etc/wvdial.conf
sudo: unable to resolve host tomken-desktop
tomken@tomken-desktop:~$ sudo chmod +s /usr/sbin/pppd
sudo: unable to resolve host tomken-desktop
tomken@tomken-desktop:~$ sudo chmod a+rw /usr/sbin/pppd
sudo: unable to resolve host tomken-desktop
tomken@tomken-desktop:~$ sudo chmod a+x /usr/sbin/pppd
sudo: unable to resolve host tomken-desktop
tomken@tomken-desktop:~$ sudo adduser tomken dip
sudo: unable to resolve host tomken-desktop
The user `tomken' is already a member of `dip'.
tomken@tomken-desktop:~$ 

Is this a problem?

---

### Post by _duncan_ on 2009-09-15
Better to leave Network Manager alone. I was hoping this is just a simple problem of Firefox starting in offline mode while connected using gnome-ppp. If it's the case, the problem could have been fixed within firefox quite easily. Unfortunately it isn't the case. Network Manager by itself is a poor utility to set up dial-up connection.

While connected using gnome-ppp, can you ping other sites using the terminal? For example:

```
ping www.google.com
```

----------------------------

> sudo: unable to resolve host tomken-desktop

This may not be related to your dial-up problems, but you seem to have borked your hostname. Did you by any chance change your hostname recently?

---

### Post by Tomken on 2009-09-16
> **_duncan_ said:**
> 
This may not be related to your dial-up problems, but you seem to have borked your hostname. Did you by any chance change your hostname recently?
I don't know!  I guess I'll have to "un-bork" the host name?  

On the dial up front, I am about to add "Solved" to this thread!  I am currently online via the dial up connection!  I started over from scratch ignoring network manager this time, and re did everything here;> [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto/SetUpDialer#head-f229b8b898575bbd996c4dac3de0772d430f2a02](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto/SetUpDialer#head-f229b8b898575bbd996c4dac3de0772d430f2a02)under "For Ubuntu, alternative approach (using gnome-ppp)" and "Alternative Way 2 (using pppconfig & pon/poff)".  I haven't tried pon&poff yet, as gnome-ppp works if I connect with gnome-ppp, open firefox, uncheck "work offline", refresh page.  

Can't say how much I appreciate the help...  I built this new box for a friend who's 98 system fried.  He can't afford more windoze so I opted to install Ubuntu for him as I have found it to be an excellent open source alternative.  Truth be told, I was on the verge of installing xp and being done with it!  I'm glad I persevered.  There is such a satisfaction in successfully working through a problem in Ubuntu.  

BTW, "Tomken" is the moniker of the guy who will be getting this box later today.  I registered him here back when I finished building it.  It wasn't until a few days ago that we found out he can't get high speed where he lives.  I just found it easier to use his handle while on this system.  My forum ID is "Nesaskewatch".

Cheers!  And thanks again all.  I hope to return the help someday.

Now on to un-borking the hostname...  any advice?  I am still quite new to Ubu myself!  8-)

---

### Post by Nesaskewatch on 2009-09-16
Hey!  Nice work Tomken!  Boy, you sure are smart!  Handsome too.  No wonder you have women chasing you all the time!  I wish I were half as good as you are...

;)

Thanks again everyone!  I think I'm gonna go out and buy a lottery ticket!

---

