---
title: "agrsm-20080203.tar.gz Driver installation problem"
date: 2009-04-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Dave Jtr on 2009-04-15
Hi,

I have used scanModem to determine my chipset. 

PCIDEV=11c1:048c
SUBSYS=11c1:044c

The attached ModemData.txt file is the output.

This file tells me I require driver:-

agrsm-20080203.tar.gz

I've downloaded this file, and installed it according to the "how-to" file. 

It doesn't work and I'm stuck.

When I run the make file it crashes out with a bunch of compile errors, and does not add the required files as indicated by the how-to. I've attached a copy of the terminal window as agrsm-error.txt

please help

Thanks Dave

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-04-16
Have you installed build-essentials?

Jim

---

### Post by Dave Jtr on 2009-04-16
Hi Jim, only if it is part of the standard install? if not where would I find this? Thanks Dave

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2009-04-16
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```

It`s a package that contains the tools necessary for compiling software.

---

### Post by Dave Jtr on 2009-04-16
I like your quote, its very true!

I've added the "build-essentials" off my install disc using the suggested terminal instruction. Thank you. But the problem remains.

cut and paste from terminal window after executing "make":
> /home/username/Desktop/agrsm/serial26.c:1007: error: ‘struct uart_info’ has no member named ‘tty’

so I looked at line 1007 of serial26.c and it reads:-
> 
line1004: static _INLINE_ void
line1005: receive_chars(struct uart_8250_port *up, int *status, struct pt_regs *regs)
line1006: {
line1007: 	struct tty_struct *tty = up->port.info->tty;
line1008: 	unsigned char ch, lsr = *status;
line1009: 	int max_count = 256;
line1010: 	char flag;

The question is where do I find structure "uart_info" and can I add an additional variable?

Why is the variable not there anyway? has the serial driver code changed for 8.10?

Any help would be most appreciated. 

Cheers Dave

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2009-04-16
Did you see this bit?

> However some compilations and executable functions may need additional files,
 in the FileNames.h (so called kernel "h"eaders) collection installed in  /usr/include/ .
 For martian_modem, additional required packages are needed. The also required headers of package libc6 are commonly installed by default. 
 Compiling hsfmodem drivers does require linux-libc-dev and libc6-dev packages, for kernels 2.6.24 and later versions.
 In not included on your install CD, search for them at [http://packages.ubuntu.com](http://packages.ubuntu.com)
 or comparable Repository for other Linux distros.
 When compiling ALSA drivers, the utility "patch" will also be needed.




If a driver compilation fails, with message including some lack of some FileName.h (stdio.h for example), then
Some additional kernel-header files need installation to /usr/include. The minimal additional packages are libc6-dev
and any of its dependents, under Ubuntu linux-libc-dev

If an alternate ethernet connection is available,
$  apt-get update
$  apt-get -s install linux-kernel-devel
will install needed packages.


---

### Post by Dave Jtr on 2009-04-16
Thanks Nothingspecial. I will try installing these this evening. Dave

---

### Post by Dave Jtr on 2009-04-18
Hi Again, no luck with the fixes to date I'm afraid. 

I attempted to install the other suggested header files. But got a response saying they were already there.

Has anyone managed to get the following modem win-modem working under Ubuntu 8.10? :-

> NAME="Communication controller: Agere Systems V.92 56K WinModem "
CLASS=0780
PCIDEV=11c1:048c
SUBSYS=11c1:044c
IDENT=agrsm

The error I get looks like it finds the structure. But the structure does not contain the variable it is expecting to find?

> username@Elmo:~/Desktop/agrsm$ make
make -C /lib/modules/2.6.27-7-generic/build SUBDIRS=/home/username/Desktop/agrsm modules
make[1]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.27-7-generic'
  CC [M]  /home/username/Desktop/agrsm/serial26.o
/home/username/Desktop/agrsm/serial26.c: In function ‘receive_chars’:
/home/username/Desktop/agrsm/serial26.c:1007: error: ‘struct uart_info’ has no member named ‘tty’
/home/username/Desktop/agrsm/serial26.c: In function ‘serial8250_get_mctrl’:
/home/username/Desktop/agrsm/serial26.c:1371: warning: unused variable ‘flags’
/home/username/Desktop/agrsm/serial26.c: In function ‘serial8250_config_port’:
/home/username/Desktop/agrsm/serial26.c:2039: warning: unused variable ‘ret’
/home/username/Desktop/agrsm/serial26.c: At top level:
/home/username/Desktop/agrsm/serial26.c:2131: warning: initialization from incompatible pointer type
/home/username/Desktop/agrsm/serial26.c:2132: warning: initialization from incompatible pointer type
make[2]: *** [/home/username/Desktop/agrsm/serial26.o] Error 1
make[1]: *** [_module_/home/username/Desktop/agrsm] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.27-7-generic'
make: *** [modules] Error 2

The only compile error is:-
> /home/username/Desktop/agrsm/serial26.c:1007: error: ‘struct uart_info’ has no member named ‘tty’

Seems strange to me that it finds the structure, but not the variable thats meant to be in it. Seems like something in the header has changed between march 08 when the driver was written and the release of Ubuntu 8.10. 

It would be really good to hear from anyone who has installed these drivers on Ubuntu 8.10...please (begging :))

thanks

Dave

---

### Post by Dave Jtr on 2009-04-19
I asked this question using the linmodems mailing list and got a very useful response. This is an excellent resource for dial-uppers with winmodems:D
> discuss@linmodems.org
The provided tar ball will not compile under Ubuntu 8.10 because in line 1007 of serial26.c the variable is being read from the wrong part of the structure. If you make the following change it will compile:-
WAS:>  *tty=up->port.info->tty
IS: >  *tty=up->port.info->[COLOR="Red"]port.[/COLOR]tty
A new tar ball is now available with the fix in it. Suggest downloading
> agrsm-20090418.tar.gz

Hope that helps anyone else with the same problem.

---

