---
title: "10.04/10 64-bit WEP :("
date: 2010-07-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Papug9 on 2010-07-06
Hi,

The **kinda common** wireless security problem
Ok, you know the drill No 64-bit WEP option.
I **can't** change my wireless security settings :(
By the way I installed Ubuntu through Wubi
The specs:
Toshiba Equium P200D
Ubuntu 10.10 (Maverick Meerkat) (amd64)
Atheros AE5007EG (madwifi)

---

### Post by mlentink on 2010-07-06
I sincerely regret not having an immediate answer to your question, but  would like to make an observation: a 64-bit WEP passphrase to protect your wireless network is just about equal to having no security whatsoever. Unless you live in a particularly remote area, I would politiely suggest upgrading to WPA2 or a wired network.

---

### Post by skatinjj on 2010-07-06
I have to agree with mlentink.

WEP has been cracked and is of no use anymore in an area where someone can attempt to connect (even with a hidden SSID, there are programs out there that find those).

WPA2 or wired is preferred here like stated above or if you have to absolutely use WEP, you need to set it up so that after entering the key you still need credentails not stored by the router(i do not know if this can be done in Ubuntu but figure I'd throw it out there).

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-07-06
I think AOSS is the best. I am using Encryption Mode AOSS WEP128 on my wireless.
AOSS constantly changes from what I understand.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-07-06
FYI to all: I was reading an article on WPA2 last year. It stated that WPA2 was cracked in less than 24 hours after it's release as an intentional test of it's validity as a security measure.

---

### Post by Papug9 on 2010-07-06
Yeah, but I really don't want to get a new router.
I might stick to Ethernet for a while.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-07-06
Aside from locking your computer into a safe and dropping it to the bottom of the ocean, a wired connection is the safest way to go. But this is Linux...

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-07-06
> **Papug9 said:**
> Yeah, but I really don't want to get a new router.
I might stick to Ethernet for a while.

I believe AOSS is only for Buffalo routers (not absolutely sure), which I got for about $60 from newegg.

Yes, I would use wired if WEP is all you are offered on a wireless.
128 bit or better encryption is pretty much a must if you want security.

---

### Post by Papug9 on 2010-07-06
There is nothing to do so I'll stay wired up.
Aw, british wireless security.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-07-06
> **Papug9 said:**
> There is nothing to do so I'll stay wired up.
Aw, british wireless security.

Can you use [COLOR=Blue]_[Newegg.com]("http://Newegg.com")_ [COLOR=Black]or [/COLOR]_[TigerDirect.com]("http://TigerDirect.com")_[/COLOR][COLOR=Blue][COLOR=Black][COLOR=Blue][COLOR=Black] or do you have an equivalent website?
They have good prices and good deals.

I have [COLOR=Blue]_[this one.]("http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16833162134&cm_re=buffalo_wireless_router-_-33-162-134-_-Product")_[/COLOR]
And it's only for a PS3 to access the internet and of coursev Netflix instant movies. :D
[/COLOR][/COLOR][/COLOR][/COLOR]

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2010-07-06
> **warfacegod said:**
> FYI to all: I was reading an article on WPA2 last year. It stated that WPA2 was cracked in less than 24 hours after it's release as an intentional test of it's validity as a security measure.

Got a cite for that? WPA2 is only as good as the strength of the secret key used. A secret key vulnerable to dictionary attack is obviously not a good idea.

---

### Post by QIII on 2010-07-06
> **warfacegod said:**
> FYI to all: I was reading an article on WPA2 last year. It stated that WPA2 was cracked in less than 24 hours after it's release as an intentional test of it's validity as a security measure.

Wasn't that TKIP, though?

AES with a strong enough password (15+ characters, no dictionary words, capitals, lower case, special characters, punctuation characters) aught to keep a brute for attack going for about 9 million years.  Or at least until the next door neighbor gets Aircrack.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-07-06
This at least indicates that it is possible. Yes, he's attacking TKIP.

[http://www.wonderhowto.com/how-to-crack-wpa-and-some-wpa2s-with-backtrack-linux-353952/](http://www.wonderhowto.com/how-to-crack-wpa-and-some-wpa2s-with-backtrack-linux-353952/)

Not the article I was referring to but it also indicates that it's possible.

[http://securityandthe.net/2008/10/12/russian-researchers-achieve-100-fold-increase-in-wpa2-cracking-speed/](http://securityandthe.net/2008/10/12/russian-researchers-achieve-100-fold-increase-in-wpa2-cracking-speed/)

---

### Post by QIII on 2010-07-06
> **warfacegod said:**
> This at least indicates that it is possible. Yes, he's attacking TKIP.

I use AES.  Even still, I don't think I'm going to see too many white vans covered with antennas in my neighborhood sitting in front of each house for hours on end attempting to get in to my home network and see the girly pictures I have in "daddy's special folder".

They'll hit the wide-open routers first.  There are several of those in my neighborhood.

You don't have to outrun the bear.  You just have to out run the other guy.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-07-06
> **QIII said:**
> I use AES.  Even still, I don't think I'm going to see too many white vans covered with antennas in my neighborhood sitting in front of each house for hours on end attempting to get in to my home network and see the girly pictures I have in "daddy's special folder".

They'll hit the wide-open routers first.  There are several of those in my neighborhood.

You don't have to outrun the bear.  You just have to out run the other guy.

I agree. This isn't a Men In Black, conspiracy theory deal where the government and the guy nest door want to our top secret chili recipes. On the other hand wireless security is important. For one, to stop people from freeloading our signals, and two, to help protect things like on-line banking.

Normally I don't even bother opening wireless security related threads but this one caught my attention for some reason. Nor would I post in one either but I got the impression that everyone, in the beginning of the thread, was putting WPA2 on the inviolate pedestal. I thought I post to dispell that idea.

Can WPA2 be cracked? Yes.

Is it the best option? Probably.

Will someone try to crack my WPA2 signal? Not likely.

The bottom line is this. *Any* encryption can be broken given enough time. But unless you're like the average Windows user (ooh, pretty! Click) have little to worry about. Common sense and forethought are better security measures than any encryption algorithm.

---

### Post by BikeHelmet on 2010-07-06
> **Cavsfan said:**
> I think AOSS is the best. I am using Encryption Mode AOSS WEP128 on my wireless.
AOSS constantly changes from what I understand.

WEP networks can be cracked by consumer grade hardware in about 400 miliseconds.

Unless your password changes 4+ times per second, you're still insecure.

WPA2 or nothing.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-07-07
DOH! AOSS is just a term for Buffalo routers where you press a button on top and it allows
whatever you are trying to allow to connect. Then it times out.
I am using 802.11g AES WPA-PSK with a fairly long key made up of letters, some caps and special characters.
It is set to change every 10 minutes. Not sure how long some one would need to crack
this password, but I bet 10 minutes is not long enough. The key can be up to 63 characters long. 
That is a lot of possible combinations. I could also set it to change more frequently.
I am happy with it. :p
Beside that, my PC is wired. Only the PS3 connects wirelessly.

---

