---
title: "13.10 Errors while installing ATI proprietary driver"
date: 2013-10-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Erebus04 on 2013-10-30
Hi,

I've been trying to install the ATI driver following the guide [here]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Saucy_Installation_Guide#.22Errors_were_encountered_while_processing:_fglrx-amdcccle.22_.28on_64-bit_systems.29"), but I'm having a lot of trouble. I've tried from my original install and a fresh install, and I've tried both the normal and experimental/beta portion of the guide. The result is the same every time. When I get to the step to install the created .deb package, I get an error saying:
```
Error! Bad return status for module build on kernel: 3.11.0-12-generic (x86_64)
Consult /var/lib/dkms/fglrx/12.104/build/make.log for more information.
```

The whole process is documented in the attached deb_error_log.txt file.  I looked at the log file it told me to, but I can't make heads or tails of it. I've also attached the log file as make.txt if anyone wants to look at it.

When I reboot, I can get to the login screen, but logging in either causes the screen to flashes black for a few seconds and I'm returned to the login screen, or it just goes black. Following the troubleshooting portion of the guide, I opened a new TTY and tried manually starting startx, but that didn't work. I redirected the errors to the attached error_log.txt file, but the main errors(I think) are 
```
Loading extension GLX
libkmod: ERROR ../libkmod/libkmod-module.c:791 kmod_module_insert_module: could not find module by name='fglrx'
ERROR: could not insert 'fglrx': Function not implemented
(WW) fglrx: No matching Device section for instance (BusID PCI:0@1:0:1) found
libkmod: ERROR ../libkmod/libkmod-module.c:791 kmod_module_insert_module: could not find module by name='fglrx'
ERROR: could not insert 'fglrx': Function not implemented
```

I've been searching the forums and google for a few days now, but I haven't found a solution. Does anyone know what could be going wrong? Better troubleshooting ideas? Or maybe a different method to try installing?

Thanks

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-10-30
I'm running into similar issues on my installs to an older/ish video card. In my case, it's an ATI HD2400. My research has led to [this]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/859101") bug report, but I have not pursued it far enough to implement the fix, which appears to involve unpacking the install blob and patching the driver or install script. In my case, the open-source *radeon* driver works (though slowly) and I don't use that particular computer for gaming or other resource-heavy usage, so I'm happy to leave well enough alone.

I should let you know that the new 12.x drivers do not work for older ATI/AMD cards. This is an AMD issue--since the drivers are proprietary (built by AMD, not Ubuntu), it is AMD that have decided to drop support for older cards. My HD 2400 is not supported and I must use the legacy 8.90 driver from AMD's site. In my case, it still didn't build, but this is probably more to do with the problems cited in the bug report than a mismatched driver/card. In your case, I would suggest that you find out first if the driver even works on your card. If your card is not supported, then you will have to download, compile and install the legacy driver as I had to. If *dkms* still refuses to build, then it is choking for another reason.

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-10-30
What model card are you using?

---

### Post by Erebus04 on 2013-10-30
> **QIII said:**
> What model card are you using?

HD 7870 GHz edition

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-10-30
Have you tried purging everything and installing from the Saucy repo?

---

### Post by Erebus04 on 2013-10-30
I've only purged what they told me to in the "Removing the drivers" section from the guide I linked to.

As  for other installation methods, I originally tried installing it from  the ATI driver from the Software Center under "Additional Drivers", but  that didn't seem to work. Is that what you meant?

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-10-30
I usually suggest doing it in the terminal if it doesn't work from the GUI.

If you look at the link in my sig, find the section on installing from the terminal.  Disregard the warning about fglrx-updates and fglrx-amdcccle-updates.  That seems to be working now and I need to update the wiki.  Try to nstall fglrx-updates and fglrx-amdcccle-updates.

If that doesn't work, you can install directly from the AMD download using the .run file directly.  The disadvantage of that is you have to watch your updates when you do them and turn down the updates if there is anything to do with the kernel being updated.  Uninstall the driver, do the updates, reboot and reinstall the driver.  Updating the kernel with the driver installed directly causes headaches.

---

### Post by Erebus04 on 2013-10-30
Alright,  Thanks.  I'm away at work now so I'll try out your method from a fresh install tomorrow and report back.

---

### Post by Erebus04 on 2013-10-31
Was able to successfully install the driver with your guide. That guide show be posted to Ubuntu's Valve page as well. Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by Elastic_Potential on 2013-11-07
> **Erebus04 said:**
> Was able to successfully install the driver with your guide. That guide show be posted to Ubuntu's Valve page as well. Thanks for the help.

Of the three methods posted in the guide, which one worked for you?

---

