---
title: "11.04 will not install or boot up"
date: 2011-05-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ibbill on 2011-05-13
Have posted this on installations no help at all anyone help me here.

11.04 ubuntu continue loop boot never see anything just boots black screen then reboots.

When I remove the gforce 5500 nvidia card no problem will boot up from the disk.Can install it I have it installed now without the the nvidia card.

Ubuntu 10.10 had no problem.

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-05-13
Your post is somewhat vague.

I looked at a post of yours from about 2 weeks ago and it appears that when you attempt to boot off the LiveCD, the boot never completes and instead it aborts and starts the boot over again, never allowing you to to even use the 'TRY' option on the LiveCD.

This this what is happening?

***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by ibbill on 2011-05-13
Sorry for the improper posting my mistake.

 boot off the LiveCD, the boot never completes and instead it aborts and starts the boot over again, never allowing you to to even use the 'TRY' option on the LiveCD.Thats is exactly what is happening . If I take the gforce card out then I can boot off the cd and install 11.04. Never ever had a problem like this with 10:10 10:04 Do you think this may be a  unity problem

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-05-14
A number of changes were made for the 11.04 release.  These included a new 'X stack'; and updating video drivers for a number of videos cards, including nvidia. I also use nVidia GPUs on all my systems, but I got the good end of the deal - mine were all new enough to run as good or better than they did in 10.10.

Because you are unable to even boot the LiveCD with that video card, I am suspecting your video card may not supported by the newer nvidia drivers.

This leaves you with a number of choices:

* Using the 10.04.02 LTS version 
* Using the 10.10 version
* Experimenting with other distros that might still support your video card
* Investing in a newer, 'known supported' video card.


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by freestyle45 on 2011-05-14
When you pull your FX5500 out, what card are you putting in that works?  Are you just using regular VGA output or the DVI?  I had a Radeon card where neither the DVI nor HDMI outputs worked at all when booting from the 10.04 or 10.10 disc, so I had to use the vga port until I got it installed.  It seems to be fixed for 11.04 though.

---

### Post by ibbill on 2011-05-14
Hi guys thanks for the info just odd all of a sudden Nvidia gforce 5500 is not supported oh well will just go with the on board card I am using now.

As a user that likes to keep it simple. I am waiting for the new mint to come out and will be installing that on my computers.Hate to leave ubuntu unless they change the idea of going strictly unity then i have no choice.

Have found unity not very user friendly.Clicking an icon then having to type in a name to say  find the log in screen for ex. Just seems  like Microsoft windows 7. The launchers on top panel were so much easier to use.

Thanks again for your help.


 lspci | grep VGA
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82915G/GV/910GL Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 04)

---

