---
title: "{16.04} how to install gnome? like you do with chrome?"
date: 2016-11-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
this is how you install chrome,

 google 'download chrome' > press download > it works

but this gnome thing is confusing cos there's this 'ubuntu gnome' thing

but that's an os

do i actually need to reinstall the an os to get gnome??? im so confuse??????????????

---

### Post by T.J. on 2016-11-05
> **linuxhard said:**
> this is how you install chrome,

 google 'download chrome' > press download > it works

but this gnome thing is confusing cos there's this 'ubuntu gnome' thing

but that's an os

do i actually need to reinstall the an os to get gnome??? im so confuse??????????????

No, you do not need to reinstall.  If you really want Gnome, you can install it on your existing setup using this command in a terminal: "sudo apt-get install ubuntu-gnome-desktop" (no quotes). Then just log out, pick the session you want and log in.


Your confusion is natural.  Unlike Windows or Mac, Ubuntu is part of a group of systems called Unix.  (Technically, Mac is a Unix also, but it does not follow standards.) Unix style systems like Ubuntu Linux or FreeBSD have no standard windowing interface.  There is no one size fits all. So you get your choice of which one you want.  Gnome is just an option.  You don't have to have it.  You can also install more than one.  It's all the same to the computer.  As far as it is concerned, the interface is just another program, not much more important than which word processor or web browser that you like to use.  It's similar to using Windowblinds on a Windows machine.


The only reason there are install discs for Kubuntu or Xubuntu or whatever is convenience.  In reality, it does not matter which one you install from because you can add any of the others to your install afterward.  Some of the different styles of interfaces are Gnome, XFCE, KDE, Afterstep, Enlightenment, and FVWM.  There are many, many more.  The idea is to let you use whatever works best for you.

Even if you chose Gnome, you can still use any program, so you can mix and match by using Gnome and running a KDE program if you want to.  

I prefer XFCE but I can switch to any of the others at will, without reinstalling.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
i need gnome cos of this -- [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342305&p=13566103#post13566103](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342305&p=13566103#post13566103)

not sure if any other options can solve this problem

* how do you download without bash? (or w/e it's call)
* how do you automatically set it to go to gnome without having to pick it?

i want to uninstall unity though, is that possible?

looks like you dont need to install the os -- [http://askubuntu.com/questions/766071/install-gnome-shell-on-ubuntu-16-04](http://askubuntu.com/questions/766071/install-gnome-shell-on-ubuntu-16-04)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-11-05
It is confusing in another way. You say that you want to install Gnome but Ubuntu is built on top of the Gnome 3 desktop environment. Ubuntu uses the Unity shell instead of the Gnome 3 shell. So, "Gnome" is already installed.

If you want Gnome 3 DE plus Gnome 3 shell minus the Unity shell then it is easiest to install Ubuntu Gnome. Dual boot.

Regards

---

### Post by T.J. on 2016-11-05
> * how do you download without bash? (or w/e it's call)

You can install it via software center or synaptic easily enough.  The terminal is just faster. 

Not to be rude or condescending,but if you are going to spend any real time with any computer, you should learn to find it.  There are certain things that are best done from a command window, regardless of Linux, Windows or Mac.  Not everything can be done from the graphical interface regardless of what OS you are using.  The reason many prefer the terminal for offering fixes is because there are fewer steps for making mistakes. Commands are always exact, and can be "cut and pasted", or fully automated if necessary.  Using a graphical interface requires pictures and detailed instructions.  It's a lot easier to make a mistake.


> * how do you automatically set it to go to gnome without having to pick it?

You can select the session type at login, and then it defaults to that in the future.

> i want to uninstall unity though, is that possible?

Yes, but you want to install another first or your interface will be minimal only - little or even no point and click.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
* so... can you do it like how you download chrome?

"[COLOR=#000000]google 'download chrome' > press download > it works"[/COLOR]

* what's synaptic 

* how do you uninstall unity?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-11-05
As T.J. said install ubuntu-gnome-desktop, then log out, from the login box, click the Ubuntu icon and select gnome desktop from the drop down. Gnome desktop will now start by default, until you change to a different DE.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
* one of the other unanswered question was how do you install gnome in the same way as you do chrome

think may dl xfce though

---

