---
title: "14.04 runs very slow on Dell Inspiron 1150"
date: 2014-06-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by therrera1550 on 2014-06-09
Hi forum members,

I am a new Linux user and am wanted to setup an older laptop to be functional as an alternative to running Windows  XP.  I downloaded and installed the latest version of ubuntu (14.04 LTS) and the install went very smooth.  However now that it is up and running I find that it has a serious lag from when I select a program to run and when the laptop responds.  In fact there is a lag of about 4 seconds from when I type say my password and when the characters appear on the screen.

Is this because my laptop is too old and lacks cpu speed.  This machine has 2 gigs of ram, a 160 gb hard drive and is a pentium 4 2.6ghz.  It has a 2.5gb swap file.

Is there something that I can do to speed this machine up?

Thanks for any help

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-06-09
Welcome to the forums.

Newer Ubuntu Desktops run best on modern hardware with powerful graphics hardware.  Lacking a $20 current-gen GPU, means everything will lag if running the default desktop - EVERYTHING.

How to solve this?  Install a different GUI/desktop like XFCE4 or LXDE.  You can find them in synaptic - install 1 or both, logout, click the gear on the login screen then select the other GUI/DE (Desktop environment) and login. Both of these GUIs are popular enough that Canonical makes distributions with them - Lubuntu and Xubuntu that also include lighter applications instead of the standard apps normal Ubuntu Desktop installs.  In most cases, there isn't any need for lighter-apps, just a lghter DE.

So - in 3 minutes, you could be running a fast DE .... and didn't even need to reboot to get it.  BTW - there are about 50 different GUIs you can try on. Some are terrible from a usability perspective, but if you know what you want to do those can be extremely efficient. However, many do not provide menus, so any menuing must be manually built by you.  XFCE and LXDE will build menus for you, don't worry.  I'd warn you that some settings are NOT compatible between the different GUIs, so switching GUIs more than a few times adds risks of incompatible settings being stored in the same file shared by the different environments.   To avoid that, create a new user account for each DE before you try them out to see which you like.  If just switching from Unity to LXDE - no need for a new account. But if you try much more than that and it is really a good idea to create new accounts.

---

### Post by sameermw on 2014-06-09
Install XFCE

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install xfce4
```


or [apt://gnome-session-flashback](apt://gnome-session-flashback)

---

### Post by therrera1550 on 2014-06-10
Hi,

my login screen gear icon does not offer me the option of selecting another GUI.  I went to the software shortcut and selected the lxde desktop installation plus a few apps that were related to that option (file manager, login app, terminal).  However though the software app performed the installation of the new software, I don't see anywhere that allows me to select the new desktop.  Does it have to be done via the command line?

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-10
If you just did the install and don't like the performance, backup what you need and try installing lubuntu itself.  It has worked for me on other old laptops I have around here.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-06-10
> **squakie said:**
> If you just did the install and don't like the performance, backup what you need and try installing lubuntu itself.  It has worked for me on other old laptops I have around here.

I've ****never**** seen this as required. After installing LXDE, logout, cliick on the "gear" to open the DE selector, then login as normal.
It isn't really very often that reinstallation should be needed. We aren't that OTHER OS.

> 
my login screen gear icon does not offer me the option of selecting another GUI. I went to the software shortcut and selected the lxde desktop installation plus a few apps that were related to that option (file manager, login app, terminal). However though the software app performed the installation of the new software, I don't see anywhere that allows me to select the new desktop. Does it have to be done via the command line? 
No. Command line is NOT needed.  I suspect the login-app you installed did something you didn't want by changing the default login screen in some way - although every login screen I've seen (only 3 diff ones) has a "gear" that can be opened to select an alternate desktop environment/window manager.

If you area lost, can you post (or google) an image that looks like your login screen?

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-06-10
LXDE though very good is still under heavy development. i woul dsuggest XFCE instead as well. it is more mature DE. however if you prefer LXDE  it's not a bad desktop at all.

---

### Post by therrera1550 on 2014-06-10
Hi,

here is a screen shot of my desktop showing the gear icon menu.  As you can see there is no option to change the desktop.  Am I looking at the wrong place?  Also after downloading the lxde installation from the Ubuntu software center, I don't know how to select it to run instead of the unity desktop.  Also the apps I downloaded did not modify my login screen, it remained the same after the download and install. 

Thanks,

Tony

[ATTACH=CONFIG]253883[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-06-10
Yes, you are looking at the wrong place. It is at the LOGIN, not from within an already logged in session.

---

### Post by sameermw on 2014-06-10
[IMG]http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/unity8-greeter.jpg[/IMG]

did you get it. select it  from your login screen

---

### Post by therrera1550 on 2014-06-10
Hi,

my login screen only presents a small rectangular box with the option to login as the user or as guest.  There are no icons nor menu of any type.  I tried to right click to see if there are any options available but the only options are "cut, copy, paste, delete, select all" when I right click in the login area.  I also tried clicking and right clicking all over the screen to see if any menus appeared.  None did.  Am I missing something?  Maybe this version or installation did not include that option?  I could reinstall and select maybe an alternate desktop?

[ATTACH=CONFIG]253889[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]253890[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by therrera1550 on 2014-06-10
Thanks for the help.  I am downloading Lubuntu14.4 and will try that on this laptop.

Tony

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-06-11
yeah... well how is this installed. it shouldn't say user there it should be your name or whatever you put in. it should then look something like this: [http://i.stack.imgur.com/Oqo6h.png](http://i.stack.imgur.com/Oqo6h.png)

in your case it looks more like a live session where you will loose all settings on reboot anyway.

---

### Post by therrera1550 on 2014-06-11
Hi,

I was testing this install on this old laptop so I used a generic name "user" as root and just "password" as the password.  I followed the install which was pretty automatic compared to SUSE (the other distribution I've tried) which offers a review and revision of the install process.  So the end result of the Ubuntu install was out of the box so to speak.  I don't have an explanation as to why I did not get the same login screen as you've shown.

I took the advice and installed Lubuntu and I think this is the way to go.  It installed automatically as Ubuntu and offers just the right amount of apps to make it a practical machine for every day type use.  I will explore the different apps from the software center to get a few utilities I find handy like a screen capture app and video downloading apps.  Other than that, it will serve me well I think.

thanks for your reply (and the others too).  The feedback helped me to rescue this old laptop.

Tony

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-11
Downloading and reinstalling Lubuntu 14.04 is the best approach. You could have a passive Unity (or several desktop environments for that matter) sitting on the system while only using LXDE but there's no need for all that stuff if you never boot into Unity anyway.

Go as light as possible, that is only Lubuntu. Your hardware is around ten years old so don't put more load on it than necessary. 

There are some performance tips in the link in my signature.

If the problem is solved please mark the thread so.

---

### Post by jimmyh1972 on 2014-06-11
The new 1404 default version to download is 64bit OS, if you have less than 4 giga of ram you should download the 32bit version and install it.

---

### Post by therrera1550 on 2014-06-11
One final thanks for all the feedback.  I am in the software center and see more than several apps that will serve me well.  It is tempting to go overboard there are so many I will have to use restraint.  I liked the fact that the OS detected my network printers when I chose to set them up.  The driver on one was not the right one but the old HP Laserject 4100 worked like a charm.  I will start another thread on how I might get that printer going, its an Officejet 6500, multi-function.  But I can live without it and I'm open that there may not be a driver available.

I consider my original problem and posting solved.  My son works in IT for a company that discards older laptops when they roll out new OS or hardware.  From time to time he is able to pick a few up and I have several that can be kept from the recycling centers.  Its a shame to throw out good hardware that can serve someone still.  We give them to friends that do not have a computer.

Thanks for all the help,

Tony

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-11
Glad to see my suggestion earlier to do this worked for you.  It wasn't the bad suggestion someone made it out to be.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-11
For additional older hardware you might also need to use xubuntu - it is a lighter version.

If you haven't already please use the Thread Tools option above the first post on a page and mark the thread solved.

---

