---
title: "9.10 Audio Crackles?"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Tierial on 2009-11-02
I'm using a Dell Inspiron E1505. I'm unsure if I have a audio card in the thing or if it's an integrated controller (I'm not 100% sure how to check, if that's needed to know just tell me how to look it up and I'll post it.); However my audio seems to be crackly at times.

The audio seems to play perfectly fine most of the time. But at random points, if something like Pidgin makes a "Friend Log on sound" or something, it occasionally is just all crackly. The thing is if I'm running Skype (2.1?) and talking to people, they are clear, and the sound from the program is still crackly.

This leads me to believe it has something to do with the program or some package that's making my audio work, that isn't working right? Am I right to assume that? Thanks for any help ahead of time.

---

### Post by knet on 2009-11-08
I have the exact same problem.  Sometimes when using the microphone the audio will be OK for a while, but eventually it will crackle and become impossible to understand.  If I kill (HUP) 'pulseaudio' things will improve for a short time, but the problem always returns soon after.

Right now I have Skype using 'pulse' for Sound In, Sound Out, and Ringing, but I've also tried setting Sound In to use my motherboard/mic directly and many other settings.

knet

---

### Post by AW36 on 2009-11-08
same here. dell dimension 8200, CS4630 santa cruz sound card
i tried getting the microphone to work, but it just doesn't like me very much. 
also... a hell of a lot of crackling sound when trying to play music. movies are fine.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-11-08
> **knet said:**
> I have the exact same problem.  Sometimes when using the microphone the audio will be OK for a while, but eventually it will crackle and become impossible to understand.  If I kill (HUP) 'pulseaudio' things will improve for a short time, but the problem always returns soon after.

Right now I have Skype using 'pulse' for Sound In, Sound Out, and Ringing, but I've also tried setting Sound In to use my motherboard/mic directly and many other settings.

knet
if its pulseaudio thats giving you the problems, why not simply
```

sudo apt-get remove pulseaudio pulseaudio-*

```ubuntu will then automatically regonize that your missing pulseaudio and move back to using ALSA

---

### Post by knet on 2009-11-09
That just results in no sound at all, unfortunately.

---

### Post by VertexPusher on 2009-11-09
> **knet said:**
> That just results in no sound at all, unfortunately.
Open a terminal window and enter
```
speaker-test
```
If you can't hear the test signal, check your volume settings. If you can't find a mixer in Gnome, enter
```
sudo apt-get install gnome-alsamixer
```
If you still can't hear anything, you may have two or more soundcards in your computer, and the wrong one may be selected as default. (USB headsets and webcam microphones are treated like normal soundcards.) Enter
```
aplay -l
```
to get a list of the soundcards recognized by ALSA. Each of the cards has a number and a name. The numbers may change between sessions, but the names do not. You can make ALSA select the default soundcard by name instead of always choosing card 0. Open a text editor and enter the following lines:
```
defaults.ctl.!card NAME
defaults.pcm.!card NAME
```
Replace NAME with the name of the card you want to use by default. Save the file as ".asoundrc" in your home folder. Then run speaker-test again.

Finally, make sure that Skype actually uses ALSA instead of trying to connect to PulseAudio.

---

### Post by zarthon on 2009-11-09
Periodic crackles have been noted in other versions.   
Do you have hda intel audio ?

Try turning up PCM volume using gnome alsa mixer. 
This is a separate volume than the pulseauido mixer.

An Explanation
Pulseaudio is a user mode sound daemon. Applications connect to pulse instead of the audio hardware directly in order to share the available audio hardware. It allows you to mix the output of different applications together, controlling each applications volume level and if you have more than one audio interface, each application's input and output hardware assignments. 
For example you can use one application with a usb audio headset and play soft music on your regular audio through your speakers but crank the volume for instant messenger also using your speakers. Pulse uses ALSA and associated drivers to connect with the audio interface. ALSA volumes are separate and it seems to me set a maximum volume for pule which seems to be just a percentage of whatever volume is set in ALSA. It is similar to the relationship of the comptuer volume and the volume you might set on your audio amplifier.

---

### Post by VertexPusher on 2009-11-09
> **zarthon said:**
> Periodic crackles have been noted in other versions.   
Do you have hda intel audio ?
Don't blame Intel HDA for the crackling caused by PulseAudio. Pretty much everyone has Intel HDA these days. It is the standard that replaced AC'97. If PA can't handle it properly, it has to go.

> Applications connect to pulse instead of the audio hardware directly in order to share the available audio hardware.
They can share the audio hardware without PulseAudio.

> It allows you to mix the output of different applications together, controlling each applications volume level and if you have more than one audio interface, each application's input and output hardware assignments. 
For example you can use one application with a usb audio headset and play soft music on your regular audio through your speakers but crank the volume for instant messenger also using your speakers.
It's nice to have one volume control per application, but what if you need two?

For example, you may want to have Skype use a USB headset for voice calls and the main soundcard for incoming message and call notifications. That means Skype needs at least two separate audio devices. However, PulseAudio treats Skype as one application and assigns one audio sink and one audio source to it. Uh-oh. Let's see what the [official PulseAudio setup manual](http://www.pulseaudio.org/wiki/PerfectSetup) is suggesting:
> Finally, open Skype. Set the "Ringing" and "Sound Out" devices to "pulse", then set the "Sound In" to the plughw device of your microphone.
The "plughw device" mentioned above is a regular ALSA PCM. How is this different from a pure ALSA setup?

Ah yes, there is a difference: The ALSA setup does not crackle, and its CPU load is lower. Bye bye, PulseAudio! ):P

---

### Post by knet on 2009-11-09
Thanks carlee, VertexPusher & zarthon for your help so far, but I'm still having problems.

I currently have the following audio devices:

```

root@wopr:~# aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: ALC883 Analog [ALC883 Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 1: ALC883 Digital [ALC883 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 1: Device [Avnera Audio Device], device 0: USB Audio [USB Audio]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

```

HDA Intel on card 0.  Card 1 is a USB device.  I'm not using it in Linux and, whether it's plugged in or not, it has no impact on my problem.

I've removed all the pulseaudio stuff for now; I can't live with the crackling audio.

After killing the pulseaudio daemon and adjusting the mixer levels with gnome-alsamixer, I have sound.  I've tested Rhythmbox and that works A-OK.  However, I have no sound at all in Skype.

I've tried configuring Skype to use "Default device (default)" and every different "HDA Intel" device, but none of them work when I try to play a test sound or make a test call.  There is no "alsa" option in the list of devices.  Should "alsa" be in the list of devices?

I also have no mixer in the panel now.  How do I add an ALSA mixer to the GNOME panel?  I cannot find one in the 'Add to Panel' dialog box and gnome-alsamixer doesn't seem to have an option for minimising to the panel.

And, one last question: any suggestions on how to get my multimedia keys working again?  I assume they were integrated with one of the pulseaudio tools and I'm hoping there's an ALSA equivalent solution.

Cheers and thanks for all the help guys.

David.

---

### Post by Logan 1229 on 2009-11-09
> **carlee said:**
> if its pulseaudio thats giving you the problems, why not simply
```

sudo apt-get remove pulseaudio pulseaudio-*

```ubuntu will then automatically regonize that your missing pulseaudio and move back to using ALSA

Well, after 4 days of pulling out my hair because of scratching, crackling sound, thanks Carlee, this seems to have worked.

> **zarthon said:**
> Periodic crackles have been noted in other versions.   
Do you have hda intel audio ?

Try turning up PCM volume using gnome alsa mixer. 
This is a separate volume than the pulseauido mixer.

An Explanation
Pulseaudio is a user mode sound daemon. Applications connect to pulse instead of the audio hardware directly in order to share the available audio hardware. It allows you to mix the output of different applications together, controlling each applications volume level and if you have more than one audio interface, each application's input and output hardware assignments. 
For example you can use one application with a usb audio headset and play soft music on your regular audio through your speakers but crank the volume for instant messenger also using your speakers. Pulse uses ALSA and associated drivers to connect with the audio interface. ALSA volumes are separate and it seems to me set a maximum volume for pule which seems to be just a percentage of whatever volume is set in ALSA. It is similar to the relationship of the comptuer volume and the volume you might set on your audio amplifier.

Thanks Zarthon, I now understand the 'link' between the two.  I previously thought one was required to have the other.

---

### Post by VertexPusher on 2009-11-10
> **knet said:**
> After killing the pulseaudio daemon and adjusting the mixer levels with gnome-alsamixer, I have sound.  I've tested Rhythmbox and that works A-OK.  However, I have no sound at all in Skype.
Did you actually remove PulseAudio or just kill the daemon?

> I've tried configuring Skype to use "Default device (default)" and every different "HDA Intel" device, but none of them work when I try to play a test sound or make a test call.  There is no "alsa" option in the list of devices.  Should "alsa" be in the list of devices?"Default" should be OK. You can test sound recording and playback by entering
```
arecord -D default -f S16_LE -r 48000 | aplay -D default
```Now you should be able to hear the sound captured by the microphone. If you see an error message instead, post it here.

Also try running Skype from the terminal to see if there are any error messages.

> I also have no mixer in the panel now.  How do I add an ALSA mixer to the GNOME panel?  I cannot find one in the 'Add to Panel' dialog box and gnome-alsamixer doesn't seem to have an option for minimising to the panel.The Ubuntu developers decided to delete Gnome's original volume control (which worked fine with *any* sound system) from the repository. You can work around the problem by adding a program launcher icon for gnome-alsamixer next to the system tray where the original volume control would be, but of course it's not really the same thing. If that bothers you, install Kubuntu (sudo apt-get install kubuntu-desktop) or switch to Debian. Debian is less crippled than Ubuntu in general.

I think Canonical is trying to make Ubuntu more like Windows, i.e. lock users into a uniform setup instead of offering them multiple choices the way community-based distros do.

> And, one last question: any suggestions on how to get my multimedia keys working again?  I assume they were integrated with one of the pulseaudio tools and I'm hoping there's an ALSA equivalent solution.Yes, there is, but not in Ubuntu. Same reason as above.

---

### Post by knet on 2009-11-10
Things are going downhill.  After a reboot I now have no sound at all.  If I try to use Rhythmbox I'm told "the autoaudiosink element is missing".

I have not changed any preferences.  All settings, mixer levels, etc are the same as yesterday (when the sound was working) after I had uninstalled all the pulseaudio stuff and killed the pulseaudio daemon.  Now, after a reboot, I have no sound at all.

Now, on top of having no mixer and no multimedia controls, I almost have Ubuntu 9.10 mimicking an old install I had circa Red Hat 5.2.  :-)

Any suggestions?

Cheers.

knet

---

### Post by knet on 2009-11-10
> **VertexPusher said:**
> Did you actually remove PulseAudio or just kill the daemon?

Both.

Things have gotten worse since rebooting.  I suspect *something* that was uninstalled was still running... until I rebooted.  Now there's no sound at all.

> **VertexPusher said:**
> "Default" should be OK. You can test sound recording and playback by entering
```
arecord -D default -f S16_LE -r 48000 | aplay -D default
```Now you should be able to hear the sound captured by the microphone. If you see an error message instead, post it here.

```

root@wopr:~# arecord -D default -f S16_LE -r 48000 | aplay -D default
ALSA lib pcm_dmix.c:1008:(snd_pcm_dmix_open) unable to open slave
aplay: main:608: audio open error: No such file or directory
Recording WAVE 'stdin' : Signed 16 bit Little Endian, Rate 48000 Hz, Mono
root@wopr:~# 

```I checked that I have a /dev/dsp ... I do.  It's group-owned by 'audio'.  Interestingly, I'm not in that group.  I am however, in 'plugdev'.  Also, I did the test as root.  So I assume that not being in the 'audio' group is not an issue.

> **VertexPusher said:**
>  Also try running Skype from the terminal to see if there are any error messages.

```

ALSA lib confmisc.c:1286:(snd_func_refer) Unable to find definition 'cards.USB-Audio.pcm.hdmi.0:CARD=0,AES0=4,AES1=130,AES2=0,AES3=2'
ALSA lib conf.c:3513:(_snd_config_evaluate) function snd_func_refer returned error: No such file or directory
ALSA lib conf.c:3985:(snd_config_expand) Evaluate error: No such file or directory
ALSA lib pcm.c:2211:(snd_pcm_open_noupdate) Unknown PCM hdmi
bt_audio_service_open: connect() failed: Connection refused (111)
bt_audio_service_open: connect() failed: Connection refused (111)
bt_audio_service_open: connect() failed: Connection refused (111)
bt_audio_service_open: connect() failed: Connection refused (111)
ALSA lib pcm_direct.c:975:(snd1_pcm_direct_initialize_slave) unable to install hw params
ALSA lib pcm_dsnoop.c:604:(snd_pcm_dsnoop_open) unable to initialize slave

```Every time I try 'Make a test sound':

```

ALSA lib pcm_direct.c:975:(snd1_pcm_direct_initialize_slave) unable to install hw params
ALSA lib pcm_dsnoop.c:604:(snd_pcm_dsnoop_open) unable to initialize slave

```> **VertexPusher said:**
> The Ubuntu developers decided to delete Gnome's original volume control (which worked fine with *any* sound system) from the repository. You can work around the problem by adding a program launcher icon for gnome-alsamixer next to the system tray where the original volume control would be, but of course it's not really the same thing. If that bothers you, install Kubuntu (sudo apt-get install kubuntu-desktop) or switch to Debian. Debian is less crippled than Ubuntu in general.

I think Canonical is trying to make Ubuntu more like Windows, i.e. lock users into a uniform setup instead of offering them multiple choices the way community-based distros do.

Yes, there is, but not in Ubuntu. Same reason as above.

I guess I may have to try KDE 4 again.  I wasn't too happy with it last time I tried it.  The widgets seemed unstable.  But, everything worked...

Thanks for your help VertexPusher.

knet

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-11-10
I removed pulseaudio, and my volume keys were defunct after it. Plus the gnome applet for the volume control would no longer start on account of depending heavily upon pulseaudio.
Then what I tried was to recompile the gnome applets with all the "disable pulse" configure options in the hope I'd get an applet up on the panel again without pulseaudio.
I was actually able to get a volume applet on the panel, however now both my volume control keys and the rest of the media keys (play/pause etc.) no longer worked which is a bit of a deal breaker for me, so I recomplied the applets with the default options again, and installed pulse once more.
 Sadly pulse is too integrated to simply remove like you could up until Karmic.

One compromise is to simply use the gnome alsa mixer to adjust the volume after you remove pulseaudio, it's not as nice as an applet, but it's better than nothing.

But if you can try and configure pulse properly rather than removing it. The following thread is a good guide:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578)

---

### Post by buzzbo on 2009-11-10
I want to chime in here--hope I'm not hijacking.

I get a crackle ever 10-15 seconds, quite regularly.  Sounds/music typically play fine, although some issues with audio CDs.  I removed pulse-audio per carlee's recommendation.  I still have the crackling, and like Zoot7, I no longer have the applet in the menu.

But back to the main point--I still have this annoying crackling every 10 seconds.  Should I file a bug report?  Where would I begin?

---

### Post by VertexPusher on 2009-11-11
> **knet said:**
> If I try to use Rhythmbox I'm told "the autoaudiosink element is missing".
That's because gstreamer0.10-pulseaudio is still installed. Remove it and make sure that gstreamer0.10-alsa is installed as a replacement.

vlc-plugin-pulse is a similar package that you might want to remove if you use VLC.

> I have not changed any preferences.  All settings, mixer levels, etc are the same as yesterday (when the sound was working) after I had uninstalled all the pulseaudio stuff and killed the pulseaudio daemon.  Now, after a reboot, I have no sound at all.
I guess you have more than one soundcard, and the system selected the wrong one as default. Note that things such as USB headsets, webcam microphones and even MIDI interfaces appear as separate soundcards in the system. If that is the case, you must make an .asoundrc file in your home folder to select the card that should be used by default.

There was a tool for soundcard selection (asoundconf), but the Ubuntu developers removed it. Run
```
aplay -l
```
to find out the name of your preferred soundcard, then write the following lines into ~/.asoundrc
```
defaults.ctl.!card NAME
defaults.pcm.!card NAME
```

---

### Post by Logan 1229 on 2009-11-12
> **Zoot7 said:**
> Plus the gnome applet for the volume control would no longer start on account of depending heavily upon pulseaudio.


Yes, unfortunate & true. Truly a loose-loose scenario...I really miss the applet but can handle the crackling.  Hopefully we get this solved soon. :(

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-11-12
> **Logan 1229 said:**
> Yes, unfortunate & true. Truly a loose-loose scenario...I really miss the applet but can handle the crackling.  Hopefully we get this solved soon. :(
I'm going to see if I can fetch the source for gnome media from the Debian testing repos (which too uses Gnome 2.28 according to distrowatch.org) and recompile it under Ubuntu. Hopefully the gnome volume control wasn't axed there.
Not sure whether it'll work or not, but it's worth a shot none the less.
I'll post back how I get on.

---

### Post by pikamoku on 2009-11-13
I have not many chances for helping, but I had this problem and I found this
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rhythmbox/+bug/442157](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rhythmbox/+bug/442157)
where explains that we have to enter in gnome-conf and edit some lines.

In my case, I set :

> audiosink = autoaudiosink
musicaudiosink = autoaudiosink

and everything worked fine. You previously have to install gstreamer "good" plugin.
I hope you  find this useful ;)  at least to find your own way.

p.d.:
The first thing I heard was "It's getting boring by the sea" from "Blood red shoes" :D  :D

---

### Post by bcatt on 2009-11-17
My audio was crackling badly (unless I turned my volume down so low I could barely hear it, so the crackling was less obvious), apparently regardless of the source (avi, dvd, online, etc). Removed pulseaudio and it works great now, though at first it seemed that I'd lost my audio completely, but I just needed to adjust some levels in alsamixer and so on.

Didn't really get what the benefit of having pulseaudio was in the first place...

---

### Post by matdev on 2009-11-17
This solution worked for me..

[http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8099760&postcount=12](http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8099760&postcount=12)

Hope that works for you too..

---

