---
title: "R!"
date: 2010-03-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gagea on 2010-03-28
Hello,

I am new to Linix, Ubuntu and would like to download and install R ([http://probability.ca/cran/](http://probability.ca/cran/)) on my computer. Is there anybody can help me with this issue. I could not understand what is on the R website. Thanks a lot.

---

### Post by halitech on 2010-03-29
not exactly sure what you are trying to install but here are the easy instructions on adding the repos

[http://probability.ca/cran/bin/linux/ubuntu/](http://probability.ca/cran/bin/linux/ubuntu/)

---

### Post by n0dix on 2010-03-29
Why don't you use the repo?
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=38je17XOr4I]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=38je17XOr4I")

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-03-29
If you want to install it, start Synaptic package manager and search R - mine returns all kinds of things for R, starting with the base package. If you don't see anything for R in your package manager, post back.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by gagea on 2010-03-29
> **anewguy said:**
> If you want to install it, start Synaptic package manager and search R - mine returns all kinds of things for R, starting with the base package. If you don't see anything for R in your package manager, post back.

Dave ;)


Thanks Dave and other UBUNTU lovers. But I do not know how to download the package from R website. The information there is not relevant so I can not understand. When clicking onto any of downloading links, it give me an error of can not find. 

Any more sugestion?

Gagea

---

### Post by empty_spaces on 2010-03-29
> **gagea said:**
> Thanks Dave and other UBUNTU lovers. But I do not know how to download the package from R website. The information there is not relevant so I can not understand. When clicking onto any of downloading links, it give me an error of can not find. 

Any more sugestion?

Gagea


I'm not sure why you are confused about this, because none of the posts above say anything about downloading from the R website.
All you need to do is watch the youtube link above and follow those instructions using Synaptic Package Manager.

---

### Post by gagea on 2010-03-29
> **empty_spaces said:**
> I'm not sure why you are confused about this, because none of the posts above say anything about downloading from the R website.
All you need to do is watch the youtube link above and follow those instructions using Synaptic Package Manager.


Thanks a lot, but I can not see anything related to R in Package Manager!

---

### Post by vanadium on 2010-03-29
Look for "r-base" in Synaptic package manager and install that. It is in the "universe" repository, which must be turned on. To check the repositories that are turned on on your system: System - Administration - Software sources. On the tab "Ubuntu software, make sure "Community-maintained Open Source software (universe)" is checked.

---

### Post by Naggobot on 2010-03-29
If I am not mistaken you want to install the statistical computation language. 

Packages you probably want are r-base and related. I am not 100% sure of the top application.  I think you need the universe repositories to install this through synaptic.

You should also be able to find (at least I am) R from the software center

Select 
Applications->Ubuntu Software Senter

search for statistical, there should be red icon for R-commander

You still may need universe repositories

These can be activated from synaptic
settings -> repositories

first tab, click community maintained software. It will enable universe repos where the R is.

(And I see someone beat me to it :D)

---

### Post by Naggobot on 2010-03-29
By the way if you are considering R! you might also be interested in Octave or Scilab. I do not know your specific need, but check them out

---

### Post by gagea on 2010-03-29
> **vanadium said:**
> Look for "r-base" in Synaptic package manager and install that. It is in the "universe" repository, which must be turned on. To check the repositories that are turned on on your system: System - Administration - Software sources. On the tab "Ubuntu software, make sure "Community-maintained Open Source software (universe)" is checked.


Thanks a lot. The software source was off. Now I installed R and can use it. I have another question: I installed Ubuntu on external hard drive. After shoutting down the system, all computer configuration, like date, firefox, etc, lost. Can you tell me where is the problem?

Thanks in advance, gagea

---

### Post by gagea on 2010-03-29
> **gagea said:**
> Thanks a lot. The software source was off. Now I installed R and can use it. I have another question: I installed Ubuntu on external hard drive. After shoutting down the system, all computer configuration, like date, firefox, etc, lost. Can you tell me where is the problem?

Thanks in advance, gagea


I have another question. When again restart the computer, I lost everything I had installed before. I am sure there is option somewhere to be turned on. I do not know where it is? Is there anybody can tell me where it is? Gagea

---

### Post by vanadium on 2010-03-29
New problem, new thread. This forum is meant to be useful to others as well.

---

