---
title: "8.04  DELL Netbook"
date: 2009-08-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by les cox on 2009-08-22
Update manager downloaded the automatic updates.While installing the updates it encountered an error, could someone please tell me how to, either delete the downloaded updates and then download them again or 
just force it to download again.

This is the error.

E: /var/cache/apt/archives/linux-image-2.6.24-22-lpia_2.6.24-22.45netbook9_lpia.deb: files list file for package `libxcb-shape0' is missing final newline

I am very new to linux ubuntu this is my first attempt.
Please reply in plain english, Think idiots guide.

                                     thank you.

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-08-22
download and slow-burn Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope LiveCD on a CD-R(after checking the md5sum of course)

Use the LiveCD test-drive function to see how Jaunty performs with your equipment

If you like it and it works well, you can use the LiveCD to move your valuables off of that drive(still, we would use clonezilla to make at least one clone/back-up of your drive if you have stuff on it that you can't afford to lose)

Partition to personal preference and a fresh install at your leisure

(why try to fix the old stuff if the new stuff works great...not to mention 9.10 is just around the corner)

.

---

### Post by sephiap on 2009-08-22
You could try the following in the terminal (Applications > Accessories > Terminal):

```
sudo apt-get clean
```

This should empty apt's cache - then, just to be safe, type:

```
sudo apt-get update
```

Then try reapplying your updates, see if that works for you. :)

---

### Post by les cox on 2009-08-23
_**SEPHIAP**_

Thank you very much my friend, worked a treat.

I appreciate the plain english. I've got a lot to learn and quite happy to try.  

I can now download the updates again.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2009-08-23
How big is the SD / hard drive you have?

If it is 4GB, your error may be related to the SD filling with updates, and hence being unable to install them.

PS: There is a separate section in thi forum for Dell users, you are likely to fond more Mini users (like me) there.

EDIT: Just seen you are in Wales - the UK minimum spec was 8GB - so ignore me.

---

### Post by les cox on 2009-08-23
_[B]LEWROCKWELL[B]_

Thanks for your reply but I'm new to Linux and don't want to go for a fresh install just yet. I need to learn about what I've got first before progressing.

---

