---
title: "8.04.1 Firefox Flash question."
date: 2008-12-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wildseven on 2008-12-15
Hello! I've been searching the forums but could not find a related link or i am just using the wrong search words.

Well anywho, I performed a clean install of 8.04.1. I did my ritual of installs and such and when it came to installing flash, i installed the flasplugin-nonfree from the repositories. Well, when i go to something that has flash, I get a big grey arrow. I have to click them manually to start the flash video. This was neat at first as it helped load websites faster, but now it's just getting annoying. How do i fix this?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-12-15
Well the first thing to do is to remove the flash plugin non free and install flash 10.

Also make sure that libflashplayer.so is removed from ./mozilla/xxx

You can download a .deb file from the adobe flash player website.

That alone should be enough, unless that is caused by a firefox plugin you installed. Disable some plugins and see if that fixes things.

( a screenshot should help )

---

### Post by jbrown96 on 2008-12-15
you have the open source player installed. It's called something along the line of swfdec-mozilla. Search for "swf" in Synaptic and remove it. You may need to install flashplugin-nonfree again. 
The version in the repos is version 10, although Adobe probably has a newer point release.

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-12-15
> **jbrown96 said:**
> you have the open source player installed. It's called something along the line of swfdec-mozilla. Search for "swf" in Synaptic and remove it. You may need to install flashplugin-nonfree again. 
The version in the repos is version 10, although Adobe probably has a newer point release.

In 8.04 it should still be Flash 9.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-12-15
Look [here #3.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1003286&highlight=flash")

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-12-15
It sounds like Flash is working though, eh?

If so go to Tools > Add-ons > Extensions and see if you have Flashblock installed. I personally wouldn't be without it but if it's there you can click "disable" and see if that gets you what you want.

Noscript is another possibility. It would be in the same place.

---

### Post by juanoleso on 2008-12-15
> **wildseven said:**
> I get a big grey arrow

[QUOTE=billgoldberg]unless that is caused by a firefox plugin you installed[/QUOTE]

This sounds similar to a firefox plugin I used to use: flashblock.  To disable a plugin open firefox then tools > add-ons > then click the plugin and hit disable.  You may have to restart firefox.

---

### Post by jbrown96 on 2008-12-15
> **billgoldberg said:**
> In 8.04 it should still be Flash 9.

Good call. I didn't read that it's 8.04. 
Get flash 10 from adobe's website. Much better

---

### Post by ashwinhgtx on 2008-12-15
I think you have installed swfdec player instead of Adobe flash player. The same thing happened to me when i was configuring a fresh install of kubuntu. Search for it and remove it using synaptic. Install adobe/macromedia flash plugin instead. Remove swfdec before installing adobe's flash. Adobe's flash is called flashplugin-nonfree. Install this.

sudo apt-get install flashplugin-nonfree

The other explanation is that you have got flashblock or flashkiller addons installed and enabled in firefox. You can disable them using the addons menu under tools.
Have you experienced this problem while using any other browser like Opera or Konqueror or Epiphany?

---

### Post by wildseven on 2008-12-15
Thanks all! it was the swfflash. i just uninstalled and everything was good!

---

