---
title: "10.04 not loading properly."
date: 2011-10-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Inodoro Pereyra on 2011-10-19
Ok, here's my newest problem.

I have a clone desktop, running Ubuntu 10.04 LTS. Some time ago, I loaded Compiz, did a bunch of customizations to the desktop, and been loving it since. I had some effects, the sphere, 5 different backgrounds, on for each desktop, etc.

Up until last night, everything was working perfectly. Today, I turn the computer on, and nothing loaded. I just have a black background in all the 4 desktops (I had 5), no effects, no sphere, nothing. Not even the default background.
I've checked the settings in Compiz, and everything seems to be in perfect order. It just isn't loading.

What's going on? I rebooted the computer twice, to see if that solved the problem, with no results. Is there a way to fix this? I want my computer back. :(

Thanks in advance. :)

---

### Post by crazy bird on 2011-10-19
Did you had any updates installed?

---

### Post by Inodoro Pereyra on 2011-10-19
Yeah, sorry I forgot. Last night, I ran the Update Manager.

---

### Post by crazy bird on 2011-10-19
> **Inodoro Pereyra said:**
> Yeah, sorry I forgot. Last night, I ran the Update Manager.
 
There you go! Now you have to find out which update screwed up your system.

---

### Post by Inodoro Pereyra on 2011-10-19
Ok...
Is there a way for somebody who doesn't know squat about Ubuntu, to find out?
What should I do?

---

### Post by Sergio.G on 2011-10-19
Hi,

I am having the exact same problem in Lucid.

The graphical way:
I found the install/update/remove history in Ubuntu Software Center (version 2.1.17)


The physical location of the logs (a log file created by date time) 
/root/.synaptic/log 

This are the packages I upgraded at work, when I arrived home, Compiz was not working properly

```
Commit Log for Tue Oct 18 14:51:59 2011


Completely removed the following packages:
aisleriot
chromium-bsu
extremetuxracer
freeglut3
fretsonfire-game
gmameui
libalut0
libglc0
libglpng
libportmidi0
libsdl-mixer1.2
ttf-uralic

Upgraded the following packages:
byobu (2.68-0ubuntu1.1) to 2.68-0ubuntu1.2
haguichi (1.0.11-1~webupd8~lucid) to 1.0.12-1~webupd8~lucid1
libdevkit-power-gobject1 (1:0.9.1-1) to 1:0.9.1-1ubuntu1
libupower-glib1 (0.9.1-1) to 0.9.1-1ubuntu1
upower (0.9.1-1) to 0.9.1-1ubuntu1
xserver-common (2:1.7.6-2ubuntu7.6) to 2:1.7.6-2ubuntu7.8
xserver-xorg-core (2:1.7.6-2ubuntu7.6) to 2:1.7.6-2ubuntu7.8

Installed the following packages:
pidgin-sipe (1.8.0-1ubuntu1)
```


Compare it with the ones you upgraded, if we have some packages in common we can narrow the chances to find out which one is causing the trouble.

Hope it helps, 
and someone can lead in the right direction,
Cheers

---

### Post by sybille on 2011-10-19
Hi,

I would guess that you're probably experiencing the same problem as many of us are following the updates to xserver-common and xserver-xorg-core yesterday. Compiz and other applications using GLX do not work after that update.

There is more information in this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11365760](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11365760)

If you think it is the same issue, could you please go to the following Launchpad bug and click the link at the top of the page to indicate that it affects you too?
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/877905](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/877905)

Thanks!

---

### Post by Sergio.G on 2011-10-19
Hi Sybille,

You are right, this shows two things for me: 
1. This is a confirmed bug and 
2. I didn't search enough in the forums :( 

Thank you so much for pointing in the right direction!
Cheers!

---

### Post by Inodoro Pereyra on 2011-10-19
Excellent! I just followed the instructions in the other thread (forced and locked the previous versions of xserver-common and xserver-xorg-core) and I have my old Ubuntu back!!!=D>=D>

Thank you all for the help. Now I'm off to the bug report.

One last question: how do I know when the bug has been fixed, so I can unlock the old versions?

Thanks again. :D

---

### Post by Inodoro Pereyra on 2011-10-19
> **Inodoro Pereyra said:**
> 
One last question: how do I know when the bug has been fixed, so I can unlock the old versions?

  

Nevermind, I just found out. :)

---

