---
title: "10.04 boot menu choices"
date: 2010-11-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cowboytech on 2010-11-28
I've been using Ubuntu for at least 3 years now, but I thought I'd start here in the Newbie section with the hope that I'd be given a simple, effective answer.

I've worked out my own problems with Ubuntu (so far) but can't seem to find how to remove all the extra choice lines from the boot menu when Ubuntu 10.04 boots up. If I want to go into Windows 7 now, I have to scroll down through 16 lines of choices to find windows 7.

I use Ubuntu much more than windows so I want windows to stay at the bottom, but when I need windows, I really don't want to have to scroll so far down to find it.

How do I find and edit the menu choices in Ubuntu 10.04 - and please give me step by step instructions. I'm 63 years old and don't follow instructions as well as I used to.
:popcorn:

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-28
[Remove older kernels]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1587462") courtesy of drs305.

But it is advised that you at least keep one older kernel so that if a newer one produces any problems, you can still boot an older and diagnose/solve the problem.

For more info regarding Grub, see drs305's signature on the page linked above.

That'll not be too difficult for a 63 Y ;-)

Happy Ubuntu-ing!

---

### Post by Enigmapond on 2010-11-28
The best and easiest way I can tell you is to install Ubuntu-Tweak and there are three easy steps to do this.. open a terminal and type or copy

```
[FONT=monospace]sudo add-apt-repository ppa:tualatrix
```

It will ask for your password then :

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install ubuntu-tweak
```

When installed you will find it in Applications/System tools. Open it and go to the package cleaner and you will see on the right "kernel". Go here and have it delete all the previous kernels.

I hope this helps.

Cheers!
[/FONT][COLOR=#FFFFFF][/COLOR]

---

### Post by c2tarun on 2010-11-28
> **cowboytech said:**
> I've been using Ubuntu for at least 3 years now, but I thought I'd start here in the Newbie section with the hope that I'd be given a simple, effective answer.

I've worked out my own problems with Ubuntu (so far) but can't seem to find how to remove all the extra choice lines from the boot menu when Ubuntu 10.04 boots up. If I want to go into Windows 7 now, I have to scroll down through 16 lines of choices to find windows 7.

I use Ubuntu much more than windows so I want windows to stay at the bottom, but when I need windows, I really don't want to have to scroll so far down to find it.

How do I find and edit the menu choices in Ubuntu 10.04 - and please give me step by step instructions. I'm 63 years old and don't follow instructions as well as I used to.
:popcorn:



open the file /boot/grub/menu.lst into your favourite text editor.

there u'll see the options you see in ur boot list. comment the unwanted options, this will make them disappear from boot menu.

change the default value from 0 to the index number of the option you want to be highlighted as a default.

you can count the index number ( they'll start from 0).

in order to move the option up in the list, cut the paragraph representing the operating system and paste it above in the list where you want it to be.

suggestion: [SIZE=5]**make backup of menu.lst file before editing it.**[/SIZE]

---

### Post by mcduck on 2010-11-28
I guess the extra entries you are talking about would be the old kernel versions?

The best way to clean them from the menu is to clean them from the computer as well. You can just uninstall the old versions of the kernel packages using Synaptic Package Manager, and the entries from the boot menu will get automatically removed as well. This will also free you some hard drive space, which wouldn't happen if you just edited the menu to remove the entries and left the actual old kernels installed.

What I usually do is use the search in Synaptic, setting it to search from name only, and searching for word "linux". Anyway, the packages you are looking for are named "linux-headers-*versionnumber*", "linux-headers-*versionnumber*-generic" and "linux-image-*versionnumber*-generic". Just right-clcik a package and select "mark for removal" and repeat for all the packages you want to remove, and then click the Apply" button. And remember to leave the latest version installed.

The alternative and easier, method is to go to System/Administration/Computer Janitor. This tool will clean the old kernels (as well as other stuff) automatically for you. Although some people say it can be a bit overly zealous and remove things you actually use as well. I've never seen that happen, but make sure to check what it's going to remove before proceeding.

---

