---
title: "[SOLVED] xububtu video options"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mesmith on 2008-11-01
Installed xububto to HDD.  All is well.  Nice, clean and fast.  One question... I don't know how xubunto configured my display card or monitor.  The monitor is restricted to 800x600, and the screen refreshes seem labored.  Scrolling seems to repaint the screen rather than being smooth.  Display card is S3 Trio 3D/2X AGP with 4 MB memory.  Display is Dell M781p.  I seem to remember that in Windows I had to drop color from 24 bit to 16 bit to get a screen over 800x600.  Any nifty way to check, or change, the display driver and screen setup?  All in all I'm very pleased with the install.

---

### Post by mesmith on 2008-11-02
A followup...  This system is so nice.  Minimal, but perfectly chosen apps (by my lights) and a very clean environment.  I Googled my video problem and the web is filled with similar problems and all sorts of arcane and complicated solutions (none of which have worked so far).  I can't believe there is no simple way to inform this system of my video card type and related driver, ditto for the monitor.  Why is this such a huge problem?  It must be something users have to do frequently as they change hardware, etc.  What gives?

---

### Post by mesmith on 2008-11-02
Lots of posted solutions involve editing xorg.config, but here's a copy of mine (are my hands tied on this problem?):

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by fyilmaz on 2008-12-04
i have ubuntu 8.10 and the same problem about video card s3 trio 3d2x is there on my pc too.
how i can install driver of s3 trio 3d2x on ubuntu ?

---

