---
title: "14.04 with a toshiba 855-1xh slow and laggy"
date: 2014-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Fanin on 2014-05-11
Hi
I have a Toshiba Satellite laptop and have installed ubuntu 14.04 on it and everything i do takes a few seconds no matter what i do. (turns grey as if it crashes) wich is frustrating when even the simplest tasks do it, it can take a very long time to do anything. eksample: i open firefox (crash for a 5 seconds then opens) open a tab (crash) click on search box (crash) type something and hit enter (crash) you get the idea :)
this isn't just with firefox but everything on this laptop. i have been watching the CPU in system monitor and it doesn't seem to go much over 50% with these simple tasks. I also tried playing sudoku to see if it would happen and it didn't happen nearly as often but still every once in a while. i read somewhere that it could be a video card driver has not been installed so i started up dota2 in steam and it takes a looong time to start the game 5min crashes every loading screen and the graphics are horrible. 
Is there a way to find out if the current driver is not working and how do i install a new one? (not very familiar with terminal commands and such)
I have tried this with Windoze 7 that was installed on this laptop before ubuntu and everything worked fine (so to speak ;)) has anyone seen this before? please let me know if anyone has a solution to this, thanks

Intel® Core™ i3-2328M-processor 
AMD Radeon™ HD 7610M-graphics
6gb DDR3 RAM

---

### Post by Kirboosy on 2014-05-12
You can download and install the latest driver for your graphics card. It can be found here: [AMD Drivers]("http://support.amd.com/en-us/download/desktop?os=Linux%20x86_64")

Or you can see if the system has any drivers to install through the repositories. If you open your Unity Dash and search for "additional drivers" that utility should detect and install any needed drivers.

However, Do one or the other. Do not do both. They are essentially the same thing just two different methods of achieving the results. 

Hope that helps!
~Caboose

---

### Post by Fanin on 2014-05-12
> **Caboose885 said:**
> You can download and install the latest driver for your graphics card. It can be found here: [AMD Drivers]("http://support.amd.com/en-us/download/desktop?os=Linux%20x86_64")

Or you can see if the system has any drivers to install through the repositories. If you open your Unity Dash and search for "additional drivers" that utility should detect and install any needed drivers.

However, Do one or the other. Do not do both. They are essentially the same thing just two different methods of achieving the results. 

Hope that helps!
~Caboose

thanks for the reply

i tried doing this with 'additional drivers' and it seems the driver from xserver works a bit better and crashes less, but still does. I started Dota2 again and it was the same as before.
I also noticed that my network connection drops to the lowest connection and back every once in a while (i'm sitting 1 meter from the router) could that have something to do with it?
would it make a difference if i downgraded to 13.04?

---

### Post by Kirboosy on 2014-05-13
I don't think the network would have anything to do with the computer running slow as a whole. Sometimes my computer does the same thing. I think it could just be a glitch in the hardware or in the network utility. 

The other thing you could try is removing the driver the "Additional Drivers" added and installing the driver straight from AMD. It will be a bit trickier to install the AMD driver but the results might be even better.

Downgrading to Ubuntu 13.04 would be a bad move. 13.04 is officially unsupported by the community. If you did downgrade it would have to be to 12.04 or 13.10. Even 13.10 is reaching its End of Life soon.

---

