---
title: "9.10  monitor stuck at 800 x 600"
date: 2010-05-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by penguinv on 2010-05-19
I've been at this for a while in #ubuntu.
I've been linked to granache's page but I seem to be pretty obtuse.
Here's the -so far so good- sum:

[INDENT]tldr: I had a problem with one Dell Monitor. Adding a this line to xorg.config fixed it.
[FONT="Courier New"]      Driver          "openchrome" [/FONT]

This is a larger monitor.[/INDENT]

Problem: Monitor stuck at low resolution. Ubuntu 9.10  [Display preferences calls it UNKNOWN] 
=== My monitor, Dell p991 can do this => 1280 x 1024 at 85 Hz <= yet ubuntu only sees it as 800x600 :(  
[FYI My video card: 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. KM400/KN400/P4M800 [S3 UniChrome] (rev 01)]
=====  I had this problem earlier with this Monitor Dell 15"e551 best res: 1024x768 at 60 Hz and it was solved (kjele) by adding a line to /etc/X11/xorg.conf -->  Driver          "openchrome" <-- in section "Device"  =====  and it is still there.
--- No response, asked 3x. Asked again in small bits. (strategy) ---

tripelb> My monitor is stuck at 600x800 even though the specs say it can do 1280 x 1024 -- can you help?
Cynthia> tripelb: To help with that problem, we need to know what the brand of your video chipset is, e.g. nVidia, ATI, Trident etc.
tripelb> Cynthia, My video card: 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. KM400/KN400/P4M800 [S3 UniChrome] (rev 01)]
Cynthia> tripelb: [http://www.uluga.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1481204&page=2](http://www.uluga.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1481204&page=2) (page 2, reply 9 by user Grenage)
...

which is: [http://www.grenage.com/xorg.html](http://www.grenage.com/xorg.html)
So I'm going to follow up on that as far as I can....
  [Here's the Dell page on the monitor, P991]("http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/monitors/p991/en/intro.htm")

Doing this: sudo apt-get install xresprobe
Did this:   sudo ddcprobe
[Here's what I got (oops bad title)]("http://ubuntu.pastebin.com/hkerRG5r") 
Then:       cvt 1680 1050 60
Result: # 1680x1050 59.95 Hz (CVT 1.76MA) hsync: 65.29 kHz; pclk: 146.25 MHz
Modeline "1680x1050_60.00"  146.25  1680 1784 1960 2240  1050 1053 1059 1089 -hsync +vsync

Results: (If I caught your drift)
HorizSync   59.95
VertRefresh 65.29

Saving: sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.old.2010,05.19

[Copied to show you (correct title this time)]("http://ubuntu.pastebin.com/2FQi4EB7")

**Here's where I am lost.** Just to start, what do I put in for the code for vendor name.

I am trying to be excruciatingly careful. 

Thank you Grenache for taking me this far.
I'll drink to you!

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-05-19
Here's the simple way to fix this up: go to eBay and see what cheap video cards are for sale. Check that they don't have an issue in Ubuntu. (Google eg. 9400gt linux) Spend the $10-$20 to buy one.

The Via S3 on-board video is a pretty crummy imitation of actual video. I have an old Compaq which has that video on the motherbopard, and all my problems went away when I bought a real (used) video card for $10.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-05-19
Hello there. :)  I doubt it's a case of being obtuse, some of us have just had to mess around with these things longer than others.

After saving a backup of your old xorg config:

```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.backup
```

Try the xorg.conf I'll paste below.  You can quickly modify it with gedit:

```
gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Then paste in, and save:

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier "Monitor0"
	VendorName "dell"
	ModelName "p991"
	HorizSync 30-107
	VertRefresh 48-120
Modeline "1280x1024_85.00"  159.50  1280 1376 1512 1744  1024 1027 1034 1078 -hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier "Device0"
	Driver "openchrome"
	VendorName "S3"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen0"
	Device "Device0"
	Monitor "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth 24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth 24
		Modes "1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

How does that fare?

P.S:

> Here's where I am lost. Just to start, what do I put in for the code for vendor name.

Vendor/Model name don't really matter that much.  The system is only interested in the specifications of the system, so you could call it a Garden Side-Salad (if you wanted to).

The guide I wrote isn't as comprehensive as I might like, but I struggle to empathise with other people's trains of thought.  If you like, you can PM me (or post here) and areas that were confusing or odd, and I'll try to strengthen it.

---

### Post by TurekPolski on 2010-05-19
I totally agree. It is the same reason I got stuck on 8.04 since. Ubuntu 9.10 just won't run with hardware accelerated video. I own a integrated Intel 915g graphics. There are some cards Ubuntu just doesn't work with.

---

### Post by penguinv on 2010-05-21
> **Grenage said:**
> Hello there. :)  I doubt it's a case of being obtuse, some of us have just had to mess around with these things longer than others.

After saving a backup of your old xorg config:

```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.backup
```

Try the xorg.conf I'll paste below.  You can quickly modify it with gedit:

[INDENT]... (skip repeating helpful code)[/INDENT]

The guide I wrote isn't as comprehensive as I might like, but I struggle to empathise with other people's trains of thought.  If you like, you can PM me (or post here) and areas that were confusing or odd, and I'll try to strengthen it.

Grenache, thank you so much for replying to me.

I put that in. Went to sys>prefs>display
My monitor is still "unknown".
I did detect monitor. "unknown"

Need I reboot?




--- --- --- --- ---  --- --- --- --- ---  --- --- --- --- ---
( and thanks to the others for suggesting a different video card
( I can now infer that I have an "accelerated video card"
( but I know that Maya works with 64 bit Fedora and definitely needs 
( an accelerated graphics card. 
( so _other_ linux _does_ work with such cards. Hmmm.

--- --- --- --- ---  --- --- --- --- ---  --- --- --- --- ---

--
Some day I'll get over installing Ubuntu. Hey it's only been a year or so. Ubuntu 6.04 worked when I was at another location. So did 9.04. 
that but since 9.10...
Some day...

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-05-21
> **penguinv said:**
> I put that in. Went to sys>prefs>display
My monitor is still "unknown".
I did detect monitor. "unknown"

Hi there,

After restarting the Xserver (or just restarting the whole computer), that xorg.cong file _should_ set your resolution to 1280x1024.  If it works, and you want/need to change the resolution, we can take it from there. :)

---

### Post by penguinv on 2010-05-22
> **Grenage said:**
> Hi there,

After restarting the Xserver (or just restarting the whole computer), that xorg.cong file _should_ set your resolution to 1280x1024.  If it works, and you want/need to change the resolution, we can take it from there. :)

**It works. It works.** And I have all this room on the screen!

1280 x 1024 on a 19" CRT. 

**Thank you so much.**  (Now I'm going to look at it and see how you did what you did so that I can see how to do it myself. If I have trouble I'll take advantage of your invitation and email or PM you.)

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-05-22
Please do, I'm glad you got it working. :)

---

### Post by penguinv on 2010-06-29
> **Grenage said:**
> Please do, I'm glad you got it working. :)

I sent you email. I'm needing help on this again.

I changed computers. So the resolution isnt max any more.

Here's the new video card.
   lspci|grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 MX 420] (rev a3)

How do I change the xorg.config for it?

And... thanks again.

---

### Post by penguinv on 2010-07-16
I sent Grenache 2 emails so maybe that human is on vacation.

So please jump in if you can help.
Tickling this question back on the board I am.

---

### Post by ST3ALTHPSYCH0 on 2010-07-16
I cheated... try the link in my sig.

---

