---
title: "[9.04] Ubuntu stops during the boot process right before loading GUI desktop, help..."
date: 2009-07-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by legolas_w on 2009-07-31
Hi

Thank you for reading my post.
this morning when I turned my laptop on it does not boot into gnome desktop and instead hanged right before showing the  GDM page. (screen shot attached)

I tried  following ways to resolve the problem and none of them worked:

- try an older kernel image : didnt help
- boot into recovery mode and try the xfix program to fix the gui problems: didnt help
- went into recovery mode > shell and rename the xorg.conf to let ubuntu create it again: didnt help with the problem

Now, I am in dire need to boot into that desktop to continue my daily works and I do not know how to fix it. please let me know what I can do to fix the problem or what log file I can check to see what is going on.

Note: Last night before sleeping I execute Display program from System>Preferences>Display and it hanged, so I killed that program (which I think is the root cause)

Note: I have ATI graphic card on my laptop.

Thank you for your help.

---

### Post by Humanum on 2009-07-31
Hi,

You can try the command > [COLOR="Sienna"]startx[/COLOR] once you've run on recovery mode...

If doesn't work, I hope someone else will come to your rescue...

---

### Post by legolas_w on 2009-07-31
Thank you, I tried the command and it crashed like other times.

---

### Post by hetx on 2009-07-31
This might be what you're looking for. Supposed to reconfigure your X-server, which seems broken =) No expert though, you can find more info by searching the forum for that command.

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by legolas_w on 2009-07-31
Thank you,

Already used that command and no luck :(

it hangs in the same spot. I tried to check my hardware and used a live disk and it boots and works properly.

---

### Post by hetx on 2009-07-31
Hmm, then I suggest removing your ATI drivers. Try to reboot your computer without them, if that works, reinstall them and see what happens. ATI cards are notoriously tricky.

---

### Post by legolas_w on 2009-07-31
> **hetx said:**
> Hmm, then I suggest removing your ATI drivers. Try to reboot your computer without them, if that works, reinstall them and see what happens. ATI cards are notoriously tricky.

Thank you all for your comments, and hail to you hetx, it is fixed now. :D god knows what could have happened to me if I couldn't fix the computer to catch with my deadlines.

Thanks guys.

---

