---
title: "12.10 Crashes - apport gpu error- Lenovo Ideapad u400"
date: 2013-03-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jimafternoon on 2013-03-24
Hello,        

 I recently installed 12.10 64bit with wubi on my Lenovo Ideapad u400, which came with windows 7. At first, the fans were blowing and the machine was running hot.      

I found this article about it, and have enacted the solution, which seemed to work at first:        

[http://www.lagserv.net/wp/2012/01/does-your-lenovo-ideapad-u400-run-hot-under-ubuntu-11-10/](http://www.lagserv.net/wp/2012/01/does-your-lenovo-ideapad-u400-run-hot-under-ubuntu-11-10/)        

But lately, I've been getting random instances of the same issue, cpu usage goes up high and the machine gets really hot. I keep getting prompted to send an error report, it says something about apport is resulting in a GPU hang. The error report lists:     /usr/share/apport/apport-gpu-error-intel.py         as the executable path. 
  
I've been reading up on it, some people suggested turning off the hardware accelerator setting in Firefox, which I did. I also turned off the automatic error report in xdiagnose. These suggestions were offered because people kept getting this messages, which is happening to me also, but i'm not sure turning off the report popup is going to solve the problem of overheating and/or crashing.   If it helps, here's what I get in terminal with the lspci command:          

n@ubuntu:~$ lspci 00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family DRAM Controller (rev 09) 00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Xeon E3-1200/2nd Generation Core Processor Family PCI Express Root Port (rev 09) 00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 09) 00:16.0 Communication controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family MEI Controller #1 (rev 04) 00:19.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82579V Gigabit Network Connection (rev 05) 00:1a.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family USB Enhanced Host Controller #2 (rev 05) 00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 05) 00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 1 (rev b5) 00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 2 (rev b5) 00:1c.4 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 5 (rev b5) 00:1d.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family USB Enhanced Host Controller #1 (rev 05) 00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation HM65 Express Chipset Family LPC Controller (rev 05) 00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family 6 port SATA AHCI Controller (rev 05) 00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family SMBus Controller (rev 05) 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Caicos [Radeon HD 6400M/7400M Series] (rev ff) 03:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Centrino Wireless-N 1030 (rev 34) 04:00.0 USB controller: NEC Corporation uPD720200 USB 3.0 Host Controller (rev 04)        

If anybody has any suggestions, I'd really appreciate it. Thanks!

---

### Post by jimafternoon on 2013-03-24
Arrrgh, sorry for that wall of text....I tried to break it into paragraphs but it wont let me, it just connects everthing into one paragraph.

[edit]  i figured out how to make paragraphs :)

---

### Post by panamik on 2013-03-26
Same thing started happening recently with my Dell Lattitude e6420. It is not a new Ubuntu install in my case - before it was working fine for 1.5 years with 11.10 - upgraded to 12.04 - upgraded to 12.10.

Seems like the problem is with video driver. It may be caused by frequent docking/undocking - there is an additional monitor attached to the dock station, so Ubuntu has hard times switching between single display / multiple displays modes.

I'll try to collect more information next time it happens.

---

### Post by TDully on 2013-03-26
Hey... I can say that you all are not alone.{ Brand new laptop w/2nd Gen Core i 3 w/ Intel HD 3000 Graphics, Dual boot Win8/Ubuntu 12.10, same issue}  From all the research that i have done for the past few days, just for this issue,...In short, nothing is happening about it !! Which is rather sad!! Also, it is somethign with the Intel Graphics, which i have been there, and have the lastest drivers, (FYI the older drivers dont help either!!!) THIS ISSUE does have a Bugreport # assigned to it (dont have # handy, can check out the bugreports though) from what i have seen, is there is nothing really happeing about it! PLUS, another thread, for same issue, mentioned Disabling the APPORT, and wait for an update (which has not been seen since Ubuntu 11.0 when this first became an issue)  this Bugreport has not been assigned to anyone yet, so i sure hope we have a work around, or a flat out fix for this ...Driving Me Nucking Futz !!!

---

### Post by jimafternoon on 2013-03-26
.

---

### Post by jimafternoon on 2013-03-26
Since starting this thread, I removed the wubi install, shrank my C:\ drive and created a new partition for a true dual boot with Win7.   After the install, I made the same adjustments laid out in my OP, and everything seemed fine for several days.     But just this morning, the computer froze up a few times with firefox running, to the point where I couldn't do anything and had to force a shut down. Since I had the reports turned off, I never got to see what the issues were labeled as.      Later, my whole computer randomly insta-shut itself down and rebooted. It was instant, similar to what I imagine happens for a thermal shutdown, but my fan wasn't really running at all prior to this, and I don't think the machine was hot. Since then it's been running ok.     I noticed before the first freeze-ups that the graphics were getting a little glitchy in firefox.   I have re-enabled the automatic error reports and will report back if any other issues arise.

---

### Post by jimafternoon on 2013-03-27
Still getting the error from my OP.  It just happens randomly every couple of days it seems. Very frustrating.

---

### Post by jimafternoon on 2013-03-27
Interesting.....I wanted to run the memtest from grub, but the option doesn't exist.    Arrrrrggh.

---

### Post by AlmogBaku on 2013-03-28
Same problem in Dell Inspiron N4050

---

### Post by bjtuna on 2013-04-05
Same problem on my Lenovo Thinkpad E530. There are a couple other threads I've found that seem to reference this issue but they've been threadcrapped by people having unrelated wifi issues, and made confused by people suggesting kernel upgrades without providing any guidance as to what kernel or how really to do it.  Very frustrating.

---

### Post by jimafternoon on 2013-04-11
I've continued searching for a fix but haven't come across one yet. 

I think I read in one of the threads that this was fixed in the 13.04 beta. Hopefully we won't have to deal with this too much longer.

---

### Post by DetroitDoc on 2013-04-16
I've got the same issue.  I'm going to try 13.04 tomorrow.  Ubuntu is unusable like this.

---

### Post by jimafternoon on 2013-04-16
I upgraded to 13.04 last week and it solved all my problems.

---

### Post by DetroitDoc on 2013-04-17
I've been running 13.04 all day with no crashes.  Phew! I was just about to give up on Ubuntu.

---

