---
title: "Each time the Wifi connection is reset I have to manually configure &quot;/etc/resolv.conf"
date: 2018-06-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jrvinayak on 2018-06-09
Hi,

I am a new user of Ubuntu and this is my first post in these community. So please help me out if I have to post this query somewhere else.

I recently installed Xubuntu 17.10 in my laptop and found that it does not connect with the internet. I did some search by myself and went on to try few things and after few iterations I realised that each time the Wifi connection is reset I have to manually configure "/etc/resolv.conf" and add "nameserver 8.8.8.8" so that my internet works. This workaround does works, but I do not want to configure these settings after each system restart of WiFi connection. Is here a way to resolve this problem? 

Each time the WiFi/System resets, the contents of the "/etc/resolv.conf" file becomes

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 127.0.1.1

---

### Post by bodhin2 on 2018-06-09
not sure if this will help or relevant  to your needs but figured I'd lay it out there for you.  i just installed 18.04 ubuntu on 2 x series thinkpads.  no issues with wifi.  yes i quickly tried in lve moe for that and trackpad stuff before installing.  i also check on my wife's dell inspiron and it seemed to work.  tried installing and had issues with wifi after install.  it worked and then went out.and never could get it back again.  re-installed 2nd time and had issues with ubuntu glitch it said on install and wifi started and disconnected and got it back 1x and lost it - burned another iso just for the heck of it  - had wifi live and then lost during install again and when finished got it back and then lost it.  i had to go in and tweak the settings re: wep stuff and shared or open and whatever else until i got it to work - since then.  not 1 problem.  maybe you know about that or just assumed it would work since it had; but maybe check into that aspect and possibly it may fix your issue..  Once again - just a similar issue with the dell.  i must add that in the past i did have issues with the dell and install of 2 other distro's so that laptop seems to have issues in a way.

---

### Post by again? on 2018-06-10
Are you just editing /etc/resolv.conf ?
Check if it is a symlink...
```
file /etc/resolv.conf
```

The symlink should not be edited, however you can replace it as it says in the file...
> # This file is managed by man:systemd-resolved(8). **Do not edit.**
#
# This is a dynamic resolv.conf file for connecting local clients to the
# internal DNS stub resolver of systemd-resolved. This file lists all
# configured search domains.
#
# Run "systemd-resolve --status" to see details about the uplink DNS servers
# currently in use.
#
# Third party programs must not access this file directly, but only through the
# symlink at /etc/resolv.conf. [B]To manage man:resolv.conf(5) in a different way,
# replace this symlink by a static file or a different symlink.[/B]
#
# See man:systemd-resolved.service(8) for details about the supported modes of
# operation for /etc/resolv.conf.

Backup the current file...
```
sudo mv /etc/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf.bak
```

Then recreate as a static file and add your nameserver.
```
sudo nano /etc/resolv.conf
```

You don't have to use google's DNS server (8.8.8.8)
You can use your ISP's DNS server which sometimes is required to be eligble for unmetered downloads.

*P.S. 17.10 reaches End of Life in 39 days at which time the repositories will be archived and no longer updated.
```
**[COLOR="#006400"]glen@Bionic:~$[/COLOR] distro-info --series artful --release --fullname --days=eol**
Ubuntu 17.10 "Artful Aardvark" 39
```
May want to upgrade to or install 18.04.

---

