---
title: "10.04 Running Very Slow on Toshiba Satellite"
date: 2010-07-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rogue55 on 2010-07-16
I have to post this at work b/c it takes so long to do anything on my laptop after upgrading from Karmic to Lucid. I have a toshiba satllite a135 with a lousy 512mb of ram. I switched from vista to ubuntu back in the fall and my computer ran sooo much better. but now that I am running on 10.04 it has slowed down to worse than vista performance. If I try to have more than one program running at once it almost freezes up. Firefox is slow, opening applications and preferneces takes minutes, etc. I am a computer noob and definately have not learned any of the tricks to ubuntu yet. I am thinking about re installing Karmic but I don't want to have to find a place for all my files to be stored in the process. If there is anything I can do to make 10.04 use less memory please let me know. It uses 85+ percent of ram at idle with firefox running. Thanks.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-07-16
Performance is probably slow because your computer does not meet the minimum hardware recommendation for Ubuntu 10.04:

> Ubuntu Desktop Edition

    * 1 GHz x86 processor
    * 1 Gb of system memory (RAM)
    * 15 GB of hard-drive space (although this can be split onto 2 drives, a 5Gb / and a 10Gb /home fairly easily)
    * Graphics card and monitor capable of 1024 by 768
    * Either a Cd/Dvd-drive or a Usb socket (or both)
    * Internet access is helpful 

The best solution would be to increase your RAM to 1GB (or more). If that is not an option, you might consider using a lightweight desktop environment (such as Xfce or LXDE) or possibly a distro designed specifically for older hardware (such as Puppy or SliTaz).

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2010-07-16
OK, so have a look at what is going on with 'top' and kill all the crap that is sapping the processor - probably some stupid indexer like Beagle:
$ sudo top

$ sudo killall beagled
or whatever...

---

### Post by rogue55 on 2010-07-16
From what I can tell the only requirement my laptop doesn't meet is the ram.  I might just go back to Karmic then since it ran so well.  Tha max ram I can get for my laptop is 2 gigs.  I'd rather not have to buy memory to run my computer.  Are those other operating systems easy to use?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-07-16
> **rogue55 said:**
> Are those other operating systems easy to use?

*In my opinion* Ubuntu is the easiest to use. However, the extra stuff that makes Ubuntu user-friendly means it has higher system requirements compared with other Linux distributions. 

Only you can decide what's best for your needs; personally I would happily spend $20 on a GB of RAM if it sped up my computer enough to save 1 hour of my life. :)

---

### Post by scrooge_74 on 2010-07-16
Brother, you need to either put more ram or switch to a lighter desktop. Those are your options. Lxde would go better or try something intermediate and use xfce. More minimalistic you could go for icewm

---

### Post by karmicgaz on 2010-07-16
I run a tosh satellite with 512 ram and lucid runs great. Only slowness is with some movies in movie player but I suspect vlc would cure that.

---

### Post by rogue55 on 2010-07-16
> **karmicgaz said:**
> I run a tosh satellite with 512 ram and lucid runs great. Only slowness is with some movies in movie player but I suspect vlc would cure that.
 
could there be another reason why my system is using so much ram/ running so slowly?  Karmic was fast, Lucid is slow.

---

### Post by rogue55 on 2010-07-16
> **scrooge_74 said:**
> Brother, you need to either put more ram or switch to a lighter desktop. Those are your options. Lxde would go better or try something intermediate and use xfce. More minimalistic you could go for icewm
 
I'm not familiar with those acronyms.  Could you please explain?

---

### Post by empty_spaces on 2010-07-16
> **rogue55 said:**
> I have to post this at work b/c it takes so long to do anything on my laptop after upgrading from Karmic to Lucid.

I consider upgrades very iffy and unreliable.
I would recommend that you do a fresh install of Lucid to see if that helps your problem (although as others have mentioned, you are living on the edge with regard to RAM requirements).

---

### Post by tripolitan on 2010-07-16
Since you're planning to re-install Karmic from scratch, why not install Lucid from scratch? I bet you'll change your mind. 512RAM is low but I think the problem is even worse than ram, I ran into the same thing (on a desktop) with 2GB ram and had to do a fresh Lucid install and have not looked back since.

Give it a try with a fresh install of Lucid, it only takes 20 minutes to find out.

Other suggestions for low-resource PCs that worked for me (to be performed before any updates):
REMOVE MONO and all Dependants (beagle tomboy gphoto, etc) replace gphoto with gthumb
REMOVE any installed packages that contain compiz
if you don't print, remove cups, if you don't run a mail server, remove any installed mta (like Exim or Postfix)
Install deborphan, it helps Synaptic get rid of orphaned libraries or run sudo orphaner and select all the orphaned libraries (except gstreamer).

Use a USB thumb drive to backup/restore your files.

---

### Post by tripolitan on 2010-07-16
Ubuntu LXDE is LUBUNTU [http://lubuntu.net/](http://lubuntu.net/)
Linux MINT LXDE (compatible with and uses ubuntu lucid repositories):
[http://www.linuxmint.com/edition.php?id=60](http://www.linuxmint.com/edition.php?id=60)

---

### Post by tripolitan on 2010-07-16
> **rogue55 said:**
> could there be another reason why my system is using so much ram/ running so slowly?  Karmic was fast, Lucid is slow.

Yes, of course. see my suggestion below.

---

### Post by karmicgaz on 2010-07-16
I think a clean install will give you a clean bill of  health and also remove all the crap you don't use.

---

