---
title: "intrepid desktops not loading -help!"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by benji.ijneb on 2008-10-30
I've now tried install kubuntu 8.10 via the alternate install cd, and upgrading a clean install of ubuntu 8.04 to 8.10 via update manager. In both cases the desktop (gnome + KDE) failed to load after the install. 

KDE froze once it had loaded the desktop in the splash screen (it didn't ever get to showing me the desktop).
Gnome freezes on a black screen after having logged in. In both cases the mouse + keyboard still worked (ctrl+alt+bckspace doesn't though)
I had the same problems in the live cds.

Please help! I have been forced to go back to 8.04 - i was really looking forward to this release! :(

thanks in advace for your help!

---

### Post by jbrown96 on 2008-10-30
We need some info on your setup. What video card do you have ```
lspci | grep VGA
```, attach your xorg.conf ```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by benji.ijneb on 2008-10-30
> **jbrown96 said:**
> We need some info on your setup. What video card do you have ```
lspci | grep VGA
```, attach your xorg.conf ```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

thanks!

graphics card info:

> 00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82830 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller] (rev 04)

xorg from 8.04:

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
    	Option      	"VertScrollDelta"   	"80"
	Option     	"CircularScrolling" 	"1"
    	Option     	"CircScrollTrigger" 	"8"
    	Option     	"CircScrollDelta"   	"0.14"
    	Option      	"VertTwoFingerScroll"   "1"
    	Option      	"HorizTwoFingerScroll"  "1"
	Option 		"TabButton1" 		"0"
	Option 		"TabButton2" 		"0"
	Option 		"TabButton3" 		"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

thanks for your help!

---

### Post by jbrown96 on 2008-10-30
I have no idea if this will work. I've never messed with Intel graphics very much, and the problem may be unrelated, but it's worth a shot. 
1. Get to a terminal. Use Alt+F1 and then login
2. backup xorg.conf ```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.back
``` If this solution doesn't work, run this same command again just swap the two file names. 
2. edit it. You can use another editor, but I know Vi, so that's how I'm going to describe it. ```
sudo vi /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` Be care what buttons you hit. If you think you pressed anything wrong, hit Esc to exit editing mode. Use the arrow keys to get to this section > Section "Device"
 Identifier "Configured Video Device"
 EndSection. Go to the end of the Identifier line (you should have the cursor over the end quote. Press a; now you are in editing mode. Press enter and then type the following (whitespace doesn't matter, just that there is some between the words, or you can try to align the formatting) > Option Driver "vesa"
3. reboot. > sudo reboot

Does that fix anything?

---

### Post by nynoah on 2008-10-30
I really wish there was no way to upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10.  This whole place is going to turn into a giant snarl of "I upgraded and it locked my computer".  Nothing against you.  But I think it is irresponsible of Cannonicle to not give a warning that if you are running anything but a STANDARD ubuntu install that you will most likely have problems with an upgrade.  

What has happened to you is your proprietary video drivers did not upgrade with your normal distro upgrade.  This could have been avoided by turning off your proprietary drivers prior to reboot.  I have discovered that trick after installing anything that messes with them.  Say like adding studio Ubuntu or Kubuntu to my setup.  The settings of your proprietary driver will not reset correctly with your upgrade.  They need to be redownloaded from the Ibex repos.  

But this whole thing is not known till after you go oopps.

I wish the board admins would make a sticky telling some of the stuff I just posted.  It sure would do a lot to help with the WHOLE Ubuntu community.

---

### Post by benji.ijneb on 2008-10-31
> **nynoah said:**
> I really wish there was no way to upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10.  This whole place is going to turn into a giant snarl of "I upgraded and it locked my computer".  Nothing against you.  But I think it is irresponsible of Cannonicle to not give a warning that if you are running anything but a STANDARD ubuntu install that you will most likely have problems with an upgrade.  

What has happened to you is your proprietary video drivers did not upgrade with your normal distro upgrade.  This could have been avoided by turning off your proprietary drivers prior to reboot.  I have discovered that trick after installing anything that messes with them.  Say like adding studio Ubuntu or Kubuntu to my setup.  The settings of your proprietary driver will not reset correctly with your upgrade.  They need to be redownloaded from the Ibex repos.  

But this whole thing is not known till after you go oopps.

I wish the board admins would make a sticky telling some of the stuff I just posted.  It sure would do a lot to help with the WHOLE Ubuntu community.

I've now reinstalled hardy - i need a working computer.

The restricted drivers dialog claims that i'm not using any proprietry drivers, and besides, the first time i tried installing intrepid i did a **clean install**.

Also, I'm not to willing to kill my computer again by upgrading if jbrown96's idea doesn't work - could I try that from the live cd (which also has the same problems). If it works on that, then the install should (hopefully) work...

Thanks so far!

---

### Post by gonzalmg on 2008-10-31
I am new to Ubuntu, so I wanted to testdrive the LiveCD before making the decision to install it on a machine for good.

I tested 8.04 LiveCD both on a CD and a USB and worked first time on 2 different Windows machines. HOWEVER, I've just downloaded 8.1.0 Desktop edition and I get the same results as previous users in this thread, i.e. it seems to load fine at the begining, but eventually gets stuck on a black screen with no desktop. The mouse pointer is all that seems to work. :(

As a novice, if there are issues with drivers (which by the way didn't exist with 8.04), you should release a new version of the ISO so that new users can simply download and install it without any issues.

---

### Post by gonzalmg on 2008-10-31
Forgot to mention that at first, I thought perhaps there was an issue with the downloaded ISO, so I went to [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes) to check the MD5 hash of the downloaed ISO file, but to my surprise, the hash for 8.1.0 was not there. Should it not be there by now?

---

### Post by Jammy4041 on 2008-10-31
For some reason, Ubuntu distribution updates are just better when you have to download a cd and install that way.  I would recommend doing that first.

BTW, I got the same symptoms, but on a live usb. (and with Intrepid RC) I did the same thing again, with a bigger usb stick and it seemed to work for me.

St r a n g e.

---

### Post by benji.ijneb on 2008-10-31
this is all very odd...
gonzalmg, which computers did you test 8.10 on?
also, does anyone know how to boot to the GDM/KDM from the liveCD?

---

### Post by gonzalmg on 2008-10-31
The laptop I am using is a Dell Inspiron 1100.

I used this same laptop last week to test the Ubuntu Desktop 8.04 LiveCD, which worked successfully. However, when testing the 8.1.0 LiveCD I get this black screen with just a moving mouse pointer working.

Did this latest distribution (8.1.0) remove support for some video drivers or something?

---

### Post by benji.ijneb on 2008-10-31
> **gonzalmg said:**
> The laptop I am using is a Dell Inspiron 1100.

I used this same laptop last week to test the Ubuntu Desktop 8.04 LiveCD, which worked successfully. However, when testing the 8.1.0 LiveCD I get this black screen with just a moving mouse pointer working.

Did this latest distribution (8.1.0) remove support for some video drivers or something?

yeah, this:

> The 71 and 96 series of proprietary nVidia drivers, as provided by the nvidia-glx-legacy and nvidia-glx packages in Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, are not compatible with the X.Org included in Ubuntu 8.10. Users with the nVidia TNT, TNT2, TNT Ultra, GeForce, GeForce2, GeForce3, and GeForce4 chipsets are affected and will be transitioned on upgrade to the free nv driver instead. This driver does not support 3D acceleration.

Users of other nVidia chipsets that are supported by the 173 or 177 driver series will be transitioned to the nvidia-glx-173 or nvidia-glx-177 package instead. However, unlike drivers 96 and 71, drivers 173 and 177 are only compatible with CPUs that support SSE (e.g. Intel Pentium III, AMD Athlon XP or higher). Systems with older CPUs will also be transitioned to the nv driver on upgrade. 

but i don't even use nvidia!

---

### Post by n9uib on 2008-10-31
i am ahvingthe same probs.... i have a dell 2350 with the intel chip in it and i get to the screen where the desktop should show up and i get nothing but the mouse cursor.... this is so weird...

      steve

---

### Post by benji.ijneb on 2008-10-31
> **n9uib said:**
> i am ahvingthe same probs.... i have a dell 2350 with the intel chip in it and i get to the screen where the desktop should show up and i get nothing but the mouse cursor.... this is so weird...

      steve

any chance you could try the fix suggested by jbrown96 on page 1 and tell us if it works - i'm back on hardy so I can't...

---

### Post by johnapeterson on 2008-11-05
I am having a similar problem, I did an upgrade from ubuntu studio 8.04 to ubuntu 8.10.  I can only get to a text login.  I can never get to the desktop on my hard drive.  Maybe I should have waited for the studio 8.10 to have an upgrade?  Can I do a fresh upgrade from a live studio 8.10 disk?  Not a reinstall, but an upgrade, so I will not erase my personal files on my harddrive?

My original thread is:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=968611](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=968611)

Any help would be greatly appreciated.
John

---

### Post by Scotsgait on 2008-11-05
> **jbrown96 said:**
> I have no idea if this will work. I've never messed with Intel graphics very much, and the problem may be unrelated, but it's worth a shot. 
1. Get to a terminal. Use Alt+F1 and then login
2. backup xorg.conf ```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.back
``` If this solution doesn't work, run this same command again just swap the two file names. 
2. edit it. You can use another editor, but I know Vi, so that's how I'm going to describe it. ```
sudo vi /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` Be care what buttons you hit. If you think you pressed anything wrong, hit Esc to exit editing mode. Use the arrow keys to get to this section . Go to the end of the Identifier line (you should have the cursor over the end quote. Press a; now you are in editing mode. Press enter and then type the following (whitespace doesn't matter, just that there is some between the words, or you can try to align the formatting) 
3. reboot. 

Does that fix anything?


Oh joy, oh joy !

:biggrin::biggrin::biggrin:

It's worked for me. It's still not configured correctly (it's in low graphics) but at least I'm back on my desktop computer and the next stage of the reconfiguration will done in due course.

---

