---
title: "11.10 will not install."
date: 2011-12-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by safh on 2011-12-07
I have not use linux before. I have been trying to install 11.10. First attempt it took ages to go through the installation procedure, the screen kept freezing for 5 or 10 minutes before continuing with the installation and then freezing again. It did eventually install but ran very slowly again taking 5 or 10 minutes to open a new window. Final it froze completely and would not accept input from mouse or keyboard.
 
I tried to re-install but this time it froze completely during the installation and would not do anything.
 
Intel Celeron 2.5 Ghz
2 gb DDR333 PC2700 RAM
80 gb Hard Drive
 
I also tried Lubuntu and that also crashed half way through the installation.
 
Anybody any ideas what is going wrong?
 
Thanks
 
Steve

---

### Post by beew on 2011-12-07
Did you try running the live usb without installing to see if it works? You should do that before you install. Also try 11.04 and see if it is the same or better. [http://releases.ubuntu.com/natty/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/natty/)

If you end up installing 11.10 again, uncheck the boxes installing updates and installing third party software, somehow the installer crashes if these boxes are checked.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-12-07
OK so 80GB hard drives have not been sold for years -- and if you've been using this PC the whole time, the periodic freezing during installation is an indication of likely hard drive problems.

Why?

Because if the SW encounters problems writing to a drive sector, it will try many times before moving on or giving up.

You need to find out the make and model of the drive, then go to the manufacturer's website and see if they have a download of a utility you can run to check the health of the drive.  You may have to hook the drive up to a Windows PC to do this as many of those utilities only run in Windows.

---

### Post by safh on 2011-12-08
Thanks for your ideas.
 
I did uncheck the boxes installing updates and installing third party software when I tried to install, so unfortunatly that is not the problem.
 
Mark you are right it is an older computer, I have just been given it by my sister who has upgraded to a new laptop.
 
When I tried to install Lubumtu, there was an option on the menu to "Check Drive", I ran this and it said drive was OK. Was this an hard drive check and does that mean my HD is alright? Or do I still need to run the manufacturer's utility?
 
Unfortunatly I got carried away with the idea that linux was easy to install and always runs beautifully and would be a big improvement over the Windows on this older computer - so I did an full install and wiped the Windows operating system and I do not have a copy to reinstall it!! (My sister brought the computer new with software loaded and didn't have back up disks).
 
So now I have a computer with no operating system! But I still want to get Linux running. 
 
If the Lubuntu drive check wasn't the HD, is the best idea to take the HD out and put into another computer to check it?
 
If the Lubuntu did check the HD as OK, any other suggestion to get me up and running with Linux?
 
Thanks
 
Steve

---

### Post by ilikelinuxitisthebest on 2011-12-10
you could install a different flavor of linux. puppy linux and damn small linux are both very good and lightweight distros.

---

