---
title: "10.10 &amp; Software Sources"
date: 2010-10-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-10-10
After a fresh install of 10.10 I looked in the Administration section for the Software Sources configuration area to see if there were any areas that I needed to include as I did in previous releases.

It is not to be found. Has this been removed or replaced by another utility or maybe it is not needed any more or perhaps hidden for some reason?

I appreciate any help on this.

Thanks in advance. Bob.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-10-10
Here it is.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581705](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581705)

---

### Post by jnorthr on 2010-10-10
Hi bob -
if you are thinking of sources as in repository of sources, you can look at those within the synaptic program. System>Administration>Synaptic Package Mgr, then look under settings for repository.  You can see what repository sources are available to you. By default, it does not include the medibuntu repo which is what some people need to add video and mp3 codecs. You may need to add that one.

---

### Post by plucky on 2010-10-10
> **bob brazie said:**
> After a fresh install of 10.10 I looked in the Administration section for the Software Sources configuration area to see if there were any areas that I needed to include as I did in previous releases.

It is not to be found. Has this been removed or replaced by another utility or maybe it is not needed any more or perhaps hidden for some reason?

I appreciate any help on this.

Thanks in advance. Bob.


Open **System > preferences > Main Menu** and see if "Software Sources" is un-ticked in the menu.I believe mine was when I installed the beta version.

Good Luck

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2010-10-10
Create a launcher for it with alacarte using "gksudo software-properties-gtk" as the command. I have no idea why the old menu entry for it was removed.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-10-10
> **oldos2er said:**
> Create a launcher for it with alacarte using "gksudo software-properties-gtk" as the command. I have no idea why the old menu entry for it was removed.
This is what an Ubuntu Member, Mr. Picklesworth stated,

> It's no longer being presented as a standalone application, but as a utility dialog. So, you can get to it from the usual places in Update Manager, Synaptic and Software Center.

One can still enable it from Main Menu Preferences as **plucky** mentioned above.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-10-10
I'm away from my Maverick machine at the moment but I believe it's available in Software Center (as was mentioned) via the Edit menu.

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-10-10
Thanks, that did the trick.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2010-10-10
Also viewable in Update Manager > Settings > Other Software tab.

---

