---
title: "10.04, No Sound on Streaming Video"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wd289206 on 2010-05-03
I downloaded 10.04 the other day, and the only problem I've been running into is that I am unable to hear sound when I play any sort of streaming video, YouTube, etc. (yes, I have checked every volume control) I am also unable to stream music from places like MySpace, which will usually be accompanied by it telling me I need to install the latest version of Flash. However, my package manager assures me that I have the latest version of Flash.

Any help? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Limitlesschannels on 2010-05-04
What kind of computer are you using?  Model, brand, etc.
Also, are you sure it is just in flash?  Have you tried playing sound locally?

   Mine is a month old sony and I need to backport some drivers to get the sound to work at all, if this is the case, I might be able to point you to the .deb you need.

---

### Post by itisachilles on 2010-05-04
yeah i ran into the same problem on my partition also (except my videos were not playing at all) but then i had the ubuntu up date manager do like 4 updates which got the videos playing (no sound) and then a un-installed java completely and reinstalled the latest version from [http://www.java.com](http://www.java.com) and every thing went along without a hitch
hoped this helped
achilles.

---

### Post by jannewmarch on 2010-05-05
In earlier versions of Ubuntu you would install the Debian package libflashsupport. This does not yet appear to be available in 10.04 from the download distro or elsewhere (at 5 May 2010)

---

