---
title: "why 16.04 LTS is so slow copying from Hardisk to pc?"
date: 2016-04-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gurramvinayiiit on 2016-04-23
Copying is very slow(Don't tell my hard drive or flash drive is slow - bcoz I checked with others PC's too)...I did not expect this.Anyone having same problem..How to resolve this ?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-04-23
What do you mean by "copying from Hardisk to pc"?

---

### Post by leunam12 on 2016-04-23
I imagine he means copying from a removable hard drive connected via USB to the hard drive in the PC. But let's wait for the OP's answer.

---

### Post by Habitual on 2016-04-23
USB 3 device in a USB 2 port?

---

### Post by oce3 on 2016-04-24
My Asus n551 laptop with ubuntu-mate 16.04 is very slow copying files from disk (usb3 on usb3 port) with hiccups and freezing the GUI.
Plugging in the power supply improved it tremendously.

---

### Post by Y^2om&amp;#7sgP on 2016-04-26
Same problem here.  USB stick worked fine then I performed a clean install of 16.04, USB device is now painfully slow copying to or from, also tends to stop for several (literally) minutes during copying.

Not a problem with the computer or stick as I've live booted a different distro on same hardware and USB flies.

I did a google for this, and came up with a report from a few years back (12.04) where it was stated that this is a problem which occurs with Ubuntu.  But didn't give anything more helpful

Can anyone shed any light or point in the direction to trouble shoot this?

Thanks all

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2016-04-26
You can try using ionice to resolve the disk/USB bus contention.

ionice -c 3 cp largefile /new/directory

[https://friedcpu.wordpress.com/2007/07/17/why-arent-you-using-ionice-yet/](https://friedcpu.wordpress.com/2007/07/17/why-arent-you-using-ionice-yet/)

---

### Post by Y^2om&amp;#7sgP on 2016-04-26
Looks like this has been going on for some time :(

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/624510]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/624510")

---

