---
title: "16.04 -&gt; 17.04 Keyboard failure and black screen after login"
date: 2017-07-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by redcrossp on 2017-07-28
Hello all. I'm pretty new to Ubuntu and would appreciate any help I could get with this problem.

I recently purchased a laptop from System76 (the lemu7, specs below) with Ubuntu 16.04 LTS preinstalled, however I quickly updated to 17.04, as installing 16.04 was a mistake on my part. Anyway, after the upgrade, the laptop's keyboard doesn't work (however the trackpad functions perfectly fine) and after I login using the onscreen keyboard, I am brought to a black screen with only the mouse visible. I have rebooted several times and keep getting this same problem.

I haven't been able to do much in the way of the terminal because CTRL+ALT+F1 or F2 on the onscreen keyboard is not doing anything. In addition, I can't seem to find how to start a Guest session, so I don't know if that is working either (I can only log into my account after booting up).

From a quick bit of research for those with similar problems, it seems like I need to either purge or reinstall the NVIDIA package to clear up problems with the black screen, and I need to login and access the system settings to fix the keyboard. The problem, however, is that it doesn't seem like I can do either one of those without first doing the other.

Again, I'm pretty new to GNU/Linux, so if you think of anything that might work, odds are I probably haven't tried it. 

Laptop specs:
OS: Just upgraded to Ubuntu 17.04 from 16.04.2 LTS (64-bit)
Processor: i3-7100U
Graphics: Intel 620
RAM: 2x4GB DDR4
HD: 250GB M.2 SSD

---

### Post by Autodave on 2017-07-28
Not sure why you think that 16.04 was a mistake. 16.04 is a long term service release: it will get updates and be supported for 5 years. 17.04 is a short term release and will only be updated until 17.10 comes out in October. Then, you will be forced to upgrade to that to keep receiving updates.

So, back to your problem. I have rarely ever had any luck updating from one release to another. last try, 13 machines and only one worked: the other 12 had to be reinstalled completely. My suggestion would be to put 16.04 back on there and be set for awhile. (The next LTS (long term release) will be 18.04 (April 2018)).

Normally, (and I am sure that there are others that share this thinking) stay with the LTS releases so that you do not have to worry about upgrading every 6 months. The new releases are the "bleeding edge", but sometimes it is you blood that is at risk. :-)

---

### Post by Tadaen_Sylvermane on 2017-07-28
On the opposite of the scale I've had little trouble with upgrades. Usually the problems I have after upgrades are from the non lts stuff. After getting burned a few times I stick with the LTS, in this case 16.04. It is no mistake to stick with an LTS, unless you absolutely have zero choice.

---

