---
title: "C++"
date: 2010-12-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by CsG_kieran_2 on 2010-12-01
Really shouldn't be in the "beginner" section anymore but i need a fast answer.

What do I type into the terminal to download ... C++? :KS
Tnx.

---

### Post by Liverbones on 2010-12-01
You don't really need to download C++. You need to download a C++ compiler, such as g++. You might as well just get the build-essential package. Type the following in a terminal: [FONT="Monospace"]sudo apt-get install build-essential[/FONT].

Once you have that, you have (technically) all you need to compile C++ code.

**EDIT:** Just remembered, you might like to know how to actually compile your C++ code. It's really easy for basic C++ source code. Basically, save your C++ code with a .cpp file extension (conventions and all), then type [FONT="Monospace"]g++ input.cpp -o output[/FONT] in a terminal with the obvious substitutions ("input.cpp" being your source file, output being the desired name of your executable).

Hope that helps. :)

---

### Post by CsG_kieran_2 on 2010-12-02
Thanks a million! :KS now just have to learn the damn thing...

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2010-12-02
Hmm, some joker decided that the C++ compiler should be named g++.

---

### Post by AngusH on 2010-12-02
> **HermanAB said:**
> Hmm, some joker decided that the C++ compiler should be named g++.

I believe the name is derived from combining gcc and c++.
Angus

---

### Post by amauk on 2010-12-02
gcc can compile C & C++ code, but you need to specify some extra arguments for compiling C++ code
(linking to the C++ standard library for one, maybe other things too)

g++ is just a convenient wrapper to gcc that automatically adds these needed arguments

---

### Post by madmax.santana on 2010-12-02
> **amauk said:**
> gcc can compile C & C++ code, but you need to specify some extra arguments for compiling C++ code
(linking to the C++ standard library for one, maybe other things too)

g++ is just a convenient wrapper to gcc that automatically adds these needed arguments
That is certainly very informative. Almost 3 years of being a keen hobbyist programmer and I didn't know that...

---

### Post by CsG_kieran_2 on 2010-12-02
Ok guy's I have got g++ but.... now what? cant find it in applications. am hopples

---

### Post by AngusH on 2010-12-02
It's a command line program.
If you write a program in a file called hello.cpp then to compile it you would run ```
g++ hello.cpp -o hello
``` and then to run the program ```
./hello
``` NB I assume in the above your in the right dir.
Angus

---

### Post by amauk on 2010-12-02
compilers are not graphical programs, so you won't find them in the menu system

write your C++ code in a text file, then in a terminal do```
g++ -o my_program my_program.cpp
```
This will compile the code in file "my_program.cpp" to a binary executable called "my_program"

---

### Post by CsG_kieran_2 on 2010-12-02
Thanks guys! :KS

---

### Post by vivek.pandey on 2010-12-04
> **CsG_kieran_2 said:**
> Ok guy's I have got g++ but.... now what? cant find it in applications. am hopples

here is another simpler way..
to compile 
g++ abc.cpp
once every error is done with or there are no errors
to run ur prog
./a.out abc.cpp
even
./a.out 
will do
good luck enjoy c++:D:D:D

---

### Post by RoflHaxBbq on 2010-12-04
Is g++ packaged with a clean install of Kubuntu/Ubuntu?

---

### Post by amauk on 2010-12-04
> **RoflHaxBbq said:**
> Is g++ packaged with a clean install of Kubuntu/Ubuntu?No, install the "build-essential" package

---

