---
title: "12.10 After login no icons appear, no lanel, no UI."
date: 2012-11-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by fat_boy on 2012-11-15
Hi all

Just installed 12.10 and after login there is no UI, just the wall paper.  I tried things like unity -reset but it says -reset is deprecated.  I tried a few other things I found on the net, none of them worked.

Is there a good fix for this or do I install 12.04?

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2012-11-15
Did you upgrade from a previous installation or did you made a fresh install?

---

### Post by fat_boy on 2012-11-15
It was a fresh install.  

I did a reinstall after messing around a bit trying to fix it, now I have the same problem as well as a new one.  When I right click on the desktop I can get the menu to set the display appearance, before I reinstalled, the menu was readable, now, on the second installation ( a fresh one) the text is jumbled up.

I think it is a graphics driver problem, but I can't see how to run it is safe mode, as some suggest, or how to replace the drivers (the youtube vid talks about NVIDIA drivers, my Dell D510 has an Intel Extreme graphics chip).

I used the old version 7 some years ago, and have to say, so far, 12.10 looks like a bit of a joke, utterly unusable. Disappointing, very disappointing.

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2012-11-15
Try out this [link]("http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/f-342-p-6.html") and see if you manage to get some drivers to solve it.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2012-11-15
try this
```

sudo nano /etc/default/grub
```
Change

```

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
```
to
```

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="i915.modeset=1"
```

Press Control+X to save, and run
```

sudo update-grub
```

---

### Post by lcestari on 2012-11-16
Hi,

I just had this problem now. I had to move back the driver that I changed to my system work again, I mean, the problem is really related with the change to proprietary NVIDIA driver. So just open the terminal (ctrl+alt+t) and enter "gnome-control-center" and go to the "Software Sources" and then go to "Additional Drivers" and change the option to "Using X.org X.server ..." and reboot (sudo shutdown -r now).

Regards,
Luan

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2012-11-16
There´s a video tutorial explaining how to do it. You can watch it [here]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ioMeSCoyYng").

---

