---
title: "19.10 How do you create a desktop shortcut to a network shared folder?"
date: 2020-02-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by brian_mitchell2 on 2020-02-25
Since there is no [FONT=courier new]gnome-desktop-item-edit[/FONT] command in [FONT=courier new]gnome-panel[/FONT] for 19.10, is there a way to create a desktop shortcut to a network share?


Thanks!!

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-02-27
Could you use a *symbolic link* with an **autofs** setup?

autofs has to be setup first, before the symbolic link will work.
Let me test it here:
```
$ cd ~/Desktop/
$ ln -s /R/Music/Rock/f/Faith_No_More       # this is a directory on an NFS mount.  The target location is assumed as '.', the CWD.
$ cd ~/Desktop/Faith_No_More   # in a different terminal.
$ df -h .
Filesystem           Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
romulus:/raid/media  1.8T  1.7T   43G  98% /R

```
That worked. Nice.  

This method works regardless of the GUI.  Now, using any program, GUI or not, we can see AND follow the symbolic link to any network storage that is mounted.   Because I use autofs (an automounter), umount'ing the storage, then any access to it will automatically remount for me. Even following a symbolic link with just an ls or any GUI:
```
$ df -h |grep R    # prove the mount exists
romulus:/raid/media                    1.8T  1.7T   43G  98% /R
$ sudo umount /R     # remove the mount.
$ df -h |grep R   # prove the mount is gone.  It is not there. Good.

$ ls -F ~/Desktop/Faith_No_More/    # re-mount using ls command.
The_Real_Thing/
```

autofs works with any real network file sharing method that has a "mount" command. That includes nfs, CIFS, webdav, plan9, and others.   Setting up autofs takes a few config files.  Systemd has a newer method which might be easier.  I'm old and have been using amd, automounter and autofs for 25 yrs.  I use autofs mainly for nfs, but a few CIFS mounts from Windows systems too. Those tend to be less stable. ;(

Let me try to figure out the systemd method. I'll try to post back here.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-02-27
Ok, been playing with the systemd.automout option today. Some manpages: systemd.automount  systemd.mount
There are caveats for almost every option.  Either the fstab or a "Unit file" can be used. The "Unit file" always take precedent.  This is about the fstab method below:

# add a line to the fstab:
```
$ sudoedit /etc/fstab
```

```
romulus:/Data/r2  /S  nfs x-systemd.automount,x-systemd.idle-timeout=600s,proto=tcp,noauto 0 2
```
where:
> * /S is the local mount point
* x-systemd.automount            appears to HAVE TO BE first in the options
* x-systemd.idle-timeout=600s    is optional AND seems to take longer to work than specified
* proto=tcp                      is a best practice for NFS to avoid
* noauto              is there to prevent mounting before a request was made
x-systemd.device-timeout=10s     is optional - stop trying after 10 sec

1-line, that's it.  Really the only option needed is x-systemd.automount.
Need to reload some stuff to make it work:
```
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl start S.automount
```
The "S" part of automount comes from the mountpoint.  If the device is already running via *systemd.automount*, use *restart*, not *start*.

Clear as mud?  I haven't seen people complaining that systemd.automount isn't stable or fast. I'll run it for a while, see how it goes.  Will add a CIFS version too.

CIFS Verion - fstab entry (on single line, no line wrap allowed):
```
//172.22.22.14/D    **/misc/D**     cifs      x-systemd.automount,x-systemd.idle-timeout=600s,sec=ntlmv2,iocharset=utf8,rw,vers=2.1,uid=1000,gid=1000,file_mode=0664,dir_mode=0775,credentials=/etc/samba/winlap-D.credentials 0 2
```
The Unix userid and groupid are in the fstab.
The Windows userid and password are in the /etc/samba/winlap-D.credentials file.

Restart daemons:
```
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl start misc-D.automount
```
the misc-D.automount part of the command comes directly from the mount point in the fstab. See bold text.
The credentials option keeps the userid/password from being plain text in a file that any user can read. That file is root-only.
```
$ ls -Fl /etc/samba/winlap-D.credentials
-rw------- 1 root root 31 Jan 17  2015 /etc/samba/winlap-D.credentials

```
That is an ugly line for any fstab.  The systemd Unit file may be cleaner, but I dislike burying mounts outside normal, expected, places.

After that, using symbolic linking should be easy.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2020-02-28
> **brian_mitchell2 said:**
> Since there is no [FONT=courier new]gnome-desktop-item-edit[/FONT] command in [FONT=courier new]gnome-panel[/FONT] for 19.10, is there a way to create a desktop shortcut to a network share?


Thanks!!
Are you talking about a launcher - as in "nautilus smb://server/share"?

If you are alacarte works in a round about way:

Install alacarte:
```
sudo apt install alacarte
```
Launch it then select [highlight]New Item[/highlight]

Give it a name and add your nautilus smb://server/share to the command entry and select OK.

It will create a alacate-made.desktop file in your /home/your-user-name/.local/share/applications directory.

Copy and paste that file to your desktop then right click it and select [highlight]Allow Launching[/highlight]

---

