---
title: "11.10 - Can't find Printer on /dev/usb..."
date: 2012-01-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by 2CV67 on 2012-01-16
I just wiped 11.04 & did a clean installation of 11.10.
My Canon iP4300 printer was easily detected & is working OK under Cups - very good news!

In 11.04, I used "Libinklevel" & "Ink" packages to display ink levels successfully.

I installed both packages again in 11.10 through Software Center but, so far, I am not able to get them to work.

Part of the procedure is to run ```
ink -d /dev/usb/lp0
``` in terminal.
My immediate problem is that I don't seem to have a /dev/usb folder at all now.
Is that new, or wrong, or just needs adding or tweaking, or what?

I tried "lsusb" & that finds the printer OK:
```
Bus 001 Device 006: ID 04a9:10b6 Canon, Inc. PIXMA iP4300 Printer
```
but I am no nearer running "ink".

Thanks for any clues!

---

### Post by 2CV67 on 2012-01-23
Looks like this is related to a known bug:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cups/+bug/842823](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cups/+bug/842823)

/dev/usb/lp* doesn't exist for any 11.10?

Nobody else using Libinklevel & Ink then?

Or should I be able to rewrite the code "ink -d /dev/usb/lp0" using the URI address of the printer, which seems (?) to be "usb://Canon/iP4300?serial=9638F9" ?

Beyond me...

---

### Post by jvecht on 2012-01-31
> **2CV67 said:**
> 
Nobody else using Libinklevel & Ink then?
 
Or should I be able to rewrite the code "ink -d /dev/usb/lp0" using the URI address of the printer, which seems (?) to be "usb://Canon/iP4300?serial=9638F9" ?
 

I just found libinklevel. I have the same problem on my system. I tried to use the URI address and the address I used when sharing my Canon MP160 on the home network. No succes.
 
Too bad. Anyone else with ideas? I refill the MP160 cartridges myself, so no problems getting spares. No need for that. But it would be nice to know the cartridges are low.

---

### Post by 2CV67 on 2012-02-07
I contacted Markus Heinz, the originator of these applications and he replied:

> The reason for not having the device nodes in /dev/usb is the CUPS installation in Ubuntu 11.10. CUPS is built in a way that it talks with libusb to the printer and the usblp.ko module which otherwise would provide the device nodes for the printer is blacklisted.

To get the device nodes back one should build CUPS with the "--disable-libusb" ./configure option. Then the blacklisting of the usblp.ko module is no longer required and the device nodes are available again. Then libinklevel and its clients will work again with USB printers.

I suggest you file an official bug report in the Ubuntu bug tracker to get this issue resolved.

This is a bit over my head, so rather than pestering Marcus with dumb questions, I wonder if anybody can explain very simply what needs to be done & what are the consequences?

I also found this reference, but am none the wiser:
[http://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/svn/pst/cups.html](http://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/svn/pst/cups.html)

Thanks for shedding any light!

---

