---
title: "16.04.1 - &quot;Ubuntu Software&quot; on Start Bar Doesn't Work"
date: 2017-01-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tpelle2 on 2017-01-21
Just installed 16.04.01.

I'm pretty much a new user - used to run FreeBSD about 20 years ago, an had a version 14 install of Ubuntu running on a VM in a Windows7 machine until they upgraded me to Windows 10 and killed the VM.  I have the 16.04.1 install running on a home-brew desktop that Window10 for a week or two, but I just couldn't tolerate it.  (My wife asked what "Ubuntu" meant, and I told her it was a Swahili word for "Window10 Sucks Crocodiles")

Anyway, when I click on the icon for "Ubuntu Software" the program opens in a new window for just a second, but is pretty much blank, then it closes.  I shutdown and re-started, but afterwards had the same result.

What's up!

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-01-21
Have you run the update manager yet having just installed 16.04.1 ?

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-01-21
Hello and welcome, This is a new installation correct?

 is it completely updated with the latest system updates?

I've also just installed** 16.04.1** on one of my machines and I notice when opening the Ubuntu **software center ** it would not fully load or allow me to install software so here is  what I did

First make sure your system is updated, then after doing so changes the download source to one that chosen when searching for a new **download source** from the server list. After choosing one reboot your machine and it should allow you to have full access to the software center and install application

For some reason the system after installing it for the first it seems like it needs to stabilize them it runs good

---

### Post by tpelle2 on 2017-01-22
Thanks for the suggestions.  When I did the install from the CD I selected the option to download all of the updates, figuring that would get me what I needed.

I ran "Update Manager", but it didn't show anything that needed to be updated (unless I didn't do it correctly).  Is there a way to make it check for updates immediately?  The only buttons it shows are <Revert> and <Close>, or maybe just <Close>.  Not exactly sure how it works.

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-01-22
Sounds like you are up to date but just to check, I'd open a terminal window and use the following commands..

```
sudo apt update
```
```
sudo apt upgrade
```

If that doesn't fix it try reinstalling it.. again from the terminal

```
sudo apt purge ubuntu-software
```
```
sudo apt install ubuntu-software
```

This seems to sort out most of the threads on this subject with 16.04.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-01-22
>    
I ran "Update Manager", but it didn't show anything that needed to be updated (unless I didn't do it correctly). Is there a way to make it check for updates immediately? The only buttons it shows are <Revert> and <Close>, or maybe just <Close>. Not exactly sure how it works.   

If you open Software & Updates, you'll see the **update** tab click on that and choose how you want your updates presented for the system here's a screen shot of the updates menu

I have mine set for daily because I like having everything updated as needed

---

### Post by tpelle2 on 2017-01-22
Fixed!  Howfield had the answer

sudo apt update and sudo apt upgrade did the trick.

Thanks!

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-01-22
> **tpelle2 said:**
> Fixed!  Howfield had the answer

sudo apt update and sudo apt upgrade did the trick.

Thanks!

Cool, glad it worked, feel free to mark the thread as solved.

---

### Post by montanya-diablo on 2017-01-27
Thanks for this thread.  I had the same problem, and it worked for me as well.  

Cheers.

---

