---
title: ".ISO will no longer play with VLC or Movie Player"
date: 2013-10-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by suomalainen on 2013-10-26
Ubunteros,

I upgraded to 12.04 and installed Devede. I then created .iso image that can be easily burned to DVD.

When I try to play the .iso with VLC or Movie player the .iso will not play. I have gone through all my settings on DEVEDE and cannot find what is wrong. I even changed file types I'm working with and have same results.

Research points to having mount the .iso but I do not believe this to be the case. Why? Because when I copied another .iso movie from another hard drive to the machine I'm performing this operation on it plays w/o issue. Thus leading me to believe that perhaps some libraries are missinig or something.

Anyone have any ideas what I can do next?

Thank you.

P.S. Another strange thing is that when I'm in DEVEDE creating the iso I can see and hear the preview but once it's created the story above comes into effect.....

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-10-27
While mounting is not necessary for VLC to play it, are you able to mount it? That would just confirm if the ISO itself is okay. If you can mount it, or open it with archive manager, can you play the included .VOB files individually by double-clicking on them?

Extract one of the larger .vob files, and check its codec info with mediainfo. To install it -
```
sudo apt-get install mediainfo
```
To use it -
```
mediainfo <the vob file>
```
Does the information look reasonably correct? You may compare it with the one that works. It doesn't have to be the same, but a few things, like video and audio format, their bit rate, aspect ratio etc. should be compatible with DVD standards.

---

