---
title: "8.04 v. 90.4 -- what's the difference?"
date: 2009-10-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by freechiru on 2009-10-03
What's the difference between 8.04 and 9.04 -- as in, what in particular has been upgraded for 9.04?  In particular, has 9.04 done anything to resolve the wifi issues with Atheros cards, or is it as hopeless as older versions?

Thanks.

---

### Post by SoftwareExplorer on 2009-10-04
I don't know about the atheros cards, but if you have intel graphics, try out the 9.04 liveCD before you decide to install it. If you have intel graphics, and it doesn't have desktop effects on the live CD, then I would install 8.04, because it works better with some intel graphics.

---

### Post by nwadams on 2009-10-04
as the previous poster said i would recommend trying a live cd or live usb of 9.04 and see if it works. 9.04 is a good release. I believe it has good support for atheros cards but I have been wrong in the past. Now about the desktop effects that the previous poster talked about. I have an intel chip and after doing the updates the desktop effects work great. They will *not* work on the live cd but after you install and update they should work great (if you have an intel graphics card, if not, ignore everything i said about desktop effects)

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-10-04
The difference between 8.04 and 9.04 is a year of development.

In particular, the Atheros wireless issues should be sorted now, and Network Manager can now work with wireless broadband.

It is recommended that you upgrade unless you need good performance from an Intel graphics chipset. (there are issues with Intel's drivers from early 2009).

---

### Post by nhasian on 2009-10-04
thats true, wifi was hit or miss in 8.04, but with each newer version of ubuntu 8.10, 9.04, and now with 9.10 it is much better.  also the problems with intel graphics adaptors are resolved now in 9.10 as well.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-10-04
Network Manager seems much improved, although not yet flawless.

---

### Post by freechiru on 2009-10-05
Thanks, that's definitely encouraging!  I did try to upgrade to 9.04 through 8.10, but for some reason my computer's having trouble finding the 8.10 upgrade, so I'll probably wait 'til 9.10 is fully released and update to that (for which there shouldn't be any problems).

---

### Post by moster on 2009-10-05
> **freechiru said:**
> What's the difference between 8.04 and 9.04 -- as in, what in particular has been upgraded for 9.04?  In particular, has 9.04 done anything to resolve the wifi issues with Atheros cards, or is it as hopeless as older versions?

Thanks.

You could download latest beta of karmic koala and try there. if it work, then upgrade kernel on your jaunty or just wait for carmic for 26 days or so.

---

### Post by random turnip on 2009-10-05
> **freechiru said:**
> What's the difference between 8.04 and 9.04 -- as in, what in particular has been upgraded for 9.04?  In particular, has 9.04 done anything to resolve the wifi issues with Atheros cards, or is it as hopeless as older versions?

Thanks.

Yes, my wifi card wouldn't work at all, then i decided to make a new CD and do a fresh install to 9.04, and it works out of the box and mine is Atheros.
I mean there is no garuntee, but it happened to me so it's worth a try.

---

### Post by nhasian on 2009-10-06
I dont think you can skip versions when upgrading.  you will need to be running 9.04 if you want to upgrade to 9.10.  Unless of course you want to do a fresh install which I highly recommend with Karmic anyway to get the EXT4 filesystem and grub2.

If you want to upgrade your 8.10 to 9.04, I recommend downloading the Ubuntu 9.04 Alternate Installer CD.  Insert the CD into the drive while at the Ubuntu desktop, and it will ask if you would like to upgrade.  Hit yes and away you go.

> **freechiru said:**
> Thanks, that's definitely encouraging!  I did try to upgrade to 9.04 through 8.10, but for some reason my computer's having trouble finding the 8.10 upgrade, so I'll probably wait 'til 9.10 is fully released and update to that (for which there shouldn't be any problems).

---

