---
title: "9.04 boot crash"
date: 2009-05-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Monkey369 on 2009-05-18
Hey everyone
I recently tried ubuntu 9.04, which i the 9.04 boot CD sent to my house
After id install it, it would log in properly...a few times
And them...BAM
It just freezes
I have no clue why or how
As soon as i log in after a few seconds, it just freezes
Any help would be much appreciated

Just some background information, its an ACER which was pre loaded with vista, so its dual boot with ubuntu
I have an AMD64X2 processor, 1 GB DDR2 RAM, 250 GB SATA HDD computer

Again, much help would be appreciated!

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2009-05-18
First off, please check the CD for errors. Unlikely it is true, but that would check one problem off the list.

Secondly, try booting in safe mode, that should allow whatever the problem is to back off. If it works in safe mode, we can zero in on the problem, as it must be something safe mode disables.

You can also try checking the system logs.

---

### Post by Monkey369 on 2009-05-18
yup i have checked for the disk errors, with no errors
as well as memory test, with everything fine too
however, safe mode wont boot as well
im fairly new to ubuntu, so how would i check the system logs?
thanks!

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2009-05-18
If you can log into a GNOME session, then it should be under System -> Administration.

You can also check them manually using a live cd. Mount your root partition and go to /var/log

However, the logs will not help you much if you are a beginner unless you post them here, and they might not help us anyway.

I have to go, hopefully you get some attention to your problem.

EDIT: Try disabling desktop effects, under System -> Preferences -> Appearance.

---

### Post by Monkey369 on 2009-05-18
thanks for your help and ill try!
i dont know if the logs will be the same since i the freeze happens so fast my desktop doesnt even show
but thanks anyways
!

---

### Post by khaos28 on 2009-05-18
Just out of curiosity, before the freezes, did you try installing any drivers?

---

### Post by Monkey369 on 2009-05-18
umm not really
the first time, since it worked, i just updated ubuntu with all the updates
actually the only driver that i updated it with were for the desktop effects

---

