---
title: "12.10 graphical issues every other boot."
date: 2012-11-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Nahjil on 2012-11-12
I saw the thread in the general support area, but it reading it seemed quite over my head. I'm currently able to get Ubuntu to boot with the GUI workplaces every other time. The times it does not it gives me weird graphical artifacts. I was able to follow what was going on up until they had me run the nvidia driver for my Geforce 9300 GE.  I followed what was said step by step. I blacklisted the noveau (sp?) that isn't supposed to be able to coexist with NVIDIA and still when I ran the driver, NVIDIA dectected it. It asked if they could add something to the blacklist I said yes and it still failed. It created a error log that I can't find. Anyone able to help?

---

### Post by critin on 2012-11-12
Just for research info, and the fun of exploring -- open up Additional Drivers and see if the driver is activated. While you're there, see if a noveau driver is offered.  My nvidia machine runs better on the open source drivers than nvidia.

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-11-12
> **critin said:**
> Just for research info, and the fun of exploring -- open up Additional Drivers and see if the driver is activated. While you're there, see if a noveau driver is offered.  My nvidia machine runs better on the open source drivers than nvidia.

Additional drivers are now under Software Sources via System Settings. The tab at the right hand end.

---

### Post by Nahjil on 2012-11-12
I was able to switch to a proprietary driver using this method. Thank you.

---

### Post by Nahjil on 2012-11-12
Whether this will fix the issue I am unsure. I'll give it a few more boots before I mark this as solved.

---

