---
title: "11.04 Compiz on Dell Latitude D620"
date: 2011-07-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by CATIII on 2011-07-05
I upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04 on a Dell Latitude D620 and now the graphics don't work.

I've enabled the restricted driver, NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver (current version) [Recommended], and downloaded the Compizconfig Settings Manager which is how I got everything set up in 10.10.  But in 11.04 changing settings within the Compiz manager doesn't change any behavior.

Any ideas?

Thanks much!

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-07-06
> **CATIII said:**
> I upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04 on a Dell Latitude D620 and now the graphics don't work.

I've enabled the restricted driver, NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver (current version) [Recommended], and downloaded the Compizconfig Settings Manager which is how I got everything set up in 10.10.  But in 11.04 changing settings within the Compiz manager doesn't change any behavior.

Any ideas?

Thanks much!Hi, use this guide to set up the cube and effects in compiz, if you try without a guide you will break unity.
[http://amazingubuntucube.blogspot.com/](http://amazingubuntucube.blogspot.com/)

---

### Post by CATIII on 2011-07-07
Thanks for that.  Followed it, but it doesn't seem to do anything.  No changes within the Compiz manager actually show up/activate.  I've tried both the recommended driver video driver and the experimental one.  The recommended one says that it is installed but not in use, while the experimental one says its both installed and in use.

---

