---
title: "Access encrypted home folder"
date: 2010-06-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Falc7 on 2010-06-14
So i have two installs of kubuntu, both with encrypted home folders. When i try and see the home folder of one install from the other, i see one file called 'access your private data' and one text file called 'read me'. So i read the readme and it says this:

```
THIS DIRECTORY HAS BEEN UNMOUNTED TO PROTECT YOUR DATA.

From the graphical desktop, click on:
 "Access Your Private Data"

or

From the command line, run:
 ecryptfs-mount-private

```

Clicking access your private data does nothing

And the command from the command line gives this:
```
jamie@jamie-kubuntu:/media/disk/home/jamie$ sudo ecryptfs-mount-private
[sudo] password for jamie: 
Enter your login passphrase:
Inserted auth tok with sig [032304b8b4bad4fb] into the user session keyring
fopen: No such file or directory
jamie@jamie-kubuntu:/media/disk/home/jamie$ 

```

What can i do?

---

### Post by P235 on 2010-06-14
I am in a similar situation.  I installed 10.04 fresh from 9.10.  Now I have the old /home directory that I cannot access and the new /home directory that works like normal.  When I punch in the same command as Falc I get the same response.

EDIT - I think I inserted the wrong login passphrase.  At the time, I neglected to record the passphrase and I can't unwrap the wrapped login passphrase file.  I'm sol.  Lesson for the future:  Record the login passphrase as told.  

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EncryptedPrivateDirectory](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EncryptedPrivateDirectory)

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-06-14
Personally, I find, with encryption, if you are going to do a fresh install, it is almost easier to make a back up of your data and restore it to your encrypted directory post install.

Otherwise you will need to learn to use ecryptfs, see the wiki page linked above.

---

### Post by blazemore on 2010-06-14
So wait, you're trying to access an encrypted directory?
If you could do that from another OS, wouldn't it completely defeat the point? Then anyone could do it.

---

### Post by Falc7 on 2010-06-14
@p235
When i set up my encrypted directory it didn't give me a passphrease, i am pretty sure

@blazemore
It would be okay as long as it asked you for a password (which is does)

---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-06-14
> **Falc7 said:**
> So i have two installs of kubuntu, both with encrypted home folders. When i try and see the home folder of one install from the other, i see one file called 'access your private data' and one text file called 'read me'. So i read the readme and it says this:

```
THIS DIRECTORY HAS BEEN UNMOUNTED TO PROTECT YOUR DATA.

From the graphical desktop, click on:
 "Access Your Private Data"

or

From the command line, run:
 ecryptfs-mount-private

```Clicking access your private data does nothing

And the command from the command line gives this:
```
jamie@jamie-kubuntu:/media/disk/home/jamie$ sudo ecryptfs-mount-private
[sudo] password for jamie: 
Enter your login passphrase:
Inserted auth tok with sig [032304b8b4bad4fb] into the user session keyring
fopen: No such file or directory
jamie@jamie-kubuntu:/media/disk/home/jamie$ 

```What can i do?
NVM. turns out my encryption scheme is different, more elaborate and secure than the default used...
pass on... don't read this post....

[s]
you need to edit
```

**/etc/security/pam_encfs.conf**



```to reflect the place where your home directory is, and your encrypted file

for example, mine looks like```


mellie /home/.enc/mellie.encfs      /home/mellie    -v,--idle=1,-test,-test2            allow_other 
-               /home/.enc      -               -v                      allow_other

```oh, and this only applies if your using encfs to encrypt your home directory[/s]

---

### Post by P235 on 2010-06-21
I managed to recover my passphrase, but I cannot seem to get it to work.

> sudo ecryptfs-mount-private
Enter your login passphrase:
Error: Unwrapping passphrase and inserting into the user session keyring failed [-5]
Info: Check the system log for more information from libecryptfs
ERROR: Your passphrase is incorrect


I'm not sure if I am using the ecryptfs-mount-private command properly.  I am certain I have recovered the login passphrase from the previous 9.10 install though.  This one is different from the one generated by 10.04.

---

