---
title: "8.04 start up issues, help please"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Ice Dragon on 2008-04-25
At first I could not install from the CDs i made for ubuntu 8.04, i tried several cds and they were al bad. I tried one and  finally got one that installed.

Now that ubuntu is installed however it wont start up correctly. It does the ubuntu loading screen with the logo and then goes to a black screen and freezes with no writing or images.

If i crtl+alt+f2 then i can get a command console login. however if i try to login and hit enter it kernel panics and freezes.

what is going on here? can someone please help, i was running 7.04 and it worked instantly with no issues.

---

### Post by brazilla ray on 2008-04-27
I am having the same issue- ctrl+alt+backspace brings up login window and it's ok from there.

---

### Post by SlappyPappy on 2008-04-27
You might want to give some more information: your system, the disks that you tried to install with, etc.

Also, does it work as a LiveCD?

---

### Post by brazilla ray on 2008-04-27
Not sure what system information would be useful to you, but I'm on a Dell Inspiron 1100, and here is my xorg.conf> 

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

I also had trouble with the first live CD I burned from Ubuntu, but the one I burned from Windows worked/works fine.

Thanks.

---

### Post by gedeyenite on 2008-05-03
Any resolution here?

I sometimes get the blank/black screen with nothing but fan noise.

Other times (but much less frequently) I can get the blank/black screen and can here the drum -hits indicating there is a login screen I can not see.

If I boot and press escape I can get ubuntu to work if I run a troubleshooting/repair bootup.  But this only works that one time, regular boot next time fails again.

This didnt start right away and I though one of the 400+ updates might have done it. So I reinstalled from teh 8.04 live cd and it is now doing the same right away--without any updates as of yet.

I am using a Dell Inspiron 1100 as well.  6.10? ran fine.

---

### Post by brazilla ray on 2008-05-04
Sorry to say - no resolution or improvement.  Most of the time things seem to work okay, but often, usually on restart, I still get a black screen.  From all I've read, it seems a lot of people are having these problems.

---

### Post by the_good_rev on 2008-05-25
I was wondering if you have had any success with this issue.  I just installed 8.04 on my Dell Inspiron 1100, and have had this issue from the start.  This is the first time I have dealt with Ubuntu, so I don't really understand if this is a problem with the program or my configuration or the computer in general.

---

### Post by nefrin on 2008-05-25
I will have an option for you shortly

---

