---
title: "18.04 booting from usb causing strange screen"
date: 2020-10-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by willsloan on 2020-10-10
Hello, I'm trying to dual boot ubuntu 18.04 with windows. I made a bootable usb following the ubuntu guide.
Each time I boot off of it I get a screen that has the options: try, install, oem, and check for defects. All options cause the window below

[ATTACH=CONFIG]287145[/ATTACH]

I can get into a terminal like this:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]287146[/ATTACH]

Any help about why its not working would be appreciated!

Note: I have tried multiple downloads of the iso on multiple usb sticks, so I think its something graphical/not usb related. 

Link to Iso: [http://releases.ubuntu.com/18.04/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/18.04/)
Link to usb tut: [https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/create-a-usb-stick-on-windows#1-overview](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/create-a-usb-stick-on-windows#1-overview)

---

### Post by Autodave on 2020-10-10
Let's start by getting some info on your system: especially any graphics card.

If this machine is very new, you might want to try Ubuntu 20.04 to get the latest drivers.  18.04 is already over 2 years old, so you may as well install the newest and then you don't have to worry about upgrading.

I would at least get 20.04 d-led and onto your USB stick and ready to install.

---

### Post by willsloan on 2020-10-10
I'm running a Nvidia GeForce RTX 2070 Super. 
The reason for running Ubuntu 18.04 is that a specific software only functions with it (might work on 20.04 but has no install info on how to do so). The program is Carla Map editor which I need for my job. 
Ideally I'd run 18.04 to avoid problems on figuring out how to install the program later.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2020-10-10
My guess is that you have installed Ubuntu onto the USB memory stick instead of burning the Ubuntu ISO to the USB memory stick. I do not think that the Ubuntu live image when run from USB stick or DVD disc has the Grub boot loader installed.

What Ubuntu Guide did you follow? and What software did you use? I guess it would be a Windows application. It is often the case that I am wrong. If so, please examine this guide on how to change the boot options for the Ubuntu live session

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

Look at the heading Changing the CD's Boot Options. Go to section 6 F6 Other Options. Pressing F6 will pull up a menu. Select nomodeset. Then select Try Ubuntu Without Installing. If that gives you a display that is usable you can then select Install Ubuntu.

The option of nomodeset allows the Ubuntu live session to load without a video mode being set. If we select the option Boot From the First Hard Disc then the ISO image will try to load a Linux operating system and if it does not find one it may then produce that Grub menu that you are seeing. I doubt that the live session is able to boot a Windows operating system. If Windows is the only OS on the first hard disc then the live session will try to load that and fail.

Regards

---

### Post by willsloan on 2020-10-10
Thanks! That did it. I was missing where I was suppose to put nomodeset.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2020-10-11
Mark as solved please so others can get help from your thread if needed.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads)

---

