---
title: "11.04, the Launcher disappears..."
date: 2011-06-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jonnycox on 2011-06-17
Sorry for  what I'm sure is a silly question, but I've ran out of ideas on how to fix the situation.

I installed Ubuntu 11.04 2 days ago on my desktop. In the last hour, for some reason, the Launcher bar (this is the left vertical sidebar with apps attached, correct?) retracts to the left anytime the mouse goes away from it - with the exception of Chromium when it is re-sized to fill the screen up to the Launcher's dimensions (and top, right, and bottom as well - all but full-screen). 

When I use Banshee, even if I re-size it the same way as mentioned above, the Launcher bar goes away (unless I put the mouse along the left wall, and sometimes I have to go up to the top left corner of the screen... sometimes this happens when there's a blue triangle in that corner... I'm sure it's no coincidence, but I can't figure out how to get it back to normal... Normal being the way it worked when I first installed 11.04; before I added a lot of different apps. Could these addons have cause this type of change?

Thanks for taking the time to read this post. I know it's not a big issue, but I just got used to having that Launcher bar always on, and man, it was so nice. 

I just semi-switched over to Ubuntu 11.04 from Windows Vista - which, I'd drop completely if it weren't for my recording software and gaming. Linux just doesn't have anything close to the support I need in those areas yet. (Not for lack of trying I'm sure though)

Thank you!

Jon

Please - feel free to ask me any questions you think might help!

---

### Post by jmagundunui on 2011-06-17
If you have compizconfig installed 
 
1. Open the compizconfig settings manager 
2. on the side menu Go to Desktop 
3. then Ubuntu unity plugin  ... then from there you should be able to do different kinds of changes regardin your launcher .;)

---

### Post by Jonnycox on 2011-06-17
> **jmagundunui said:**
> If you have compizconfig installed 
 
1. Open the compizconfig settings manager 
2. on the side menu Go to Desktop 
3. then Ubuntu unity plugin  ... then from there you should be able to do different kinds of changes regardin your launcher .;)

Thanks! I had to install "Advanced Desktop Effects Settings" (thanks to [**[COLOR="Blue"]this thread[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1782327&highlight=launcher")) I was able to get it to "Never" move! Yay!

Thanks for your quick response jmagundunui! I very much appreciate it. I'm loving my experience with Ubuntu and it's great community.

---

