---
title: "13.04 printer (Canon LPB-1260 Plus) not identified"
date: 2013-08-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Chant_Gras on 2013-08-07
Hello,

In a previous version of Ubuntu (12.04 LTS), when I wanted to add my old Canon LPB-1260 Plus (running off a serial cable), as soon as I powered up, the printer was detected and the drivers were downloaded and installed no problem. Everything worked like a dream.

I have recently updated to 13.04 (the tech guy where I work more or less made me do it). Problem now is that when I try to install the printer it's not being detected. All I'm getting is the following:[INDENT]
Devices
   Serial Port #1
   Serial Port #5
   Enter URI
   Network Printer
[/INDENT]

This is a local printer, so I know that "Enter URI" and "Network Printer" are irrelevant here (umm, aren't they?). However, when I attempt to go with either serial ports, I get this for both:[INDENT]
Baud Rate 115200
Parity Default
Data Bits Default
Flow Control Default
[/INDENT]

None of this has the slightest meaning for me. So, without changing anything (because in Ubuntu we trust) I go forward and eventually get to choose the Canon drivers for LPB-1260. These seem to download (but do they?). 

In any case, when I attempt to print a simple page of ordinary text, nothing happens. The file disappears from the print queue, but nothing comes out of the printer.

I did attempt to install manually, but I not really a tech person so it was hopeless.

Obviously I'm doing something wrong. But what?

Can anybody suggest a solution?

Many thanks,
Gras

---

### Post by Laiquendi on 2013-08-07
Make sure that the "cups" service is running. In my case after update it "droped out" from autostart.

---

### Post by Chant_Gras on 2013-08-10
Hi                                                                                      [**[COLOR=#000000]Laiquendi[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1015476")

I have no idea what the cups service is and how to check. But thanks for your suggestion.

But anyway, I found a solution (perhaps of sorts).

Usually the printer is supposed to be powered up so that it's detected. I simply tried without the printer being powered up to see what would happen. In devices, an extra port (LPT 1 I think) was detected along with the previously mentioned serials. I installed Canon LPB-1260 on this and it's working.

All of this has been a bit strange and at one point I even considered returning to 12.04LTS. My problem is that when I find a solution I never really understand its rational. In fact, I rarely even understand the problem.

Thanks all,
Chante

---

