---
title: "Savage video problems"
date: 2009-01-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dabellator on 2009-01-04
I did an install of 8.10, but when it boots I get the following error:

(EE) SAVAGE(o): No valid modes found
(EE) scren(s) found, but none have a usable configuration

System hangs if I try to boot in low graphics mode, and when I assess the error here is a little of what it tells me:

xorg server 2:1.5.2 -2ubuntu3
cp:cannot stat `/etc/x11/xorg-conf' :no such file directory
could not write gedit
failed to create file '/root/.gnome2/gedit-2.03 PANU' no such file directory

I've heard that 8.10 isn't compatible with certain pieces of hardware, is their anything I can do to get this working?


Another question, I started asking about this problem in my last thread, but since the title was for a separate problem I decided to start a new thread.  Is that alright or something we shouldn't do in this forum?  Thanks for helping a newbie!
-JB

---

### Post by dabellator on 2009-01-04
bumping this back up, if there is no way to fix my problem just let me know, or should I try loading 8.04?  Here's another question, what card does work pretty well with ubuntu?  this is just a backup machine, so i'll be looking for something cheap or old
-JB

---

### Post by ufireup on 2009-02-05
Hey, I've unfortunately been having the same problem with a Savage card. 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1060674](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1060674) 
That is my thread.. So far, no luck here either.

---

### Post by ufireup on 2009-02-06
Hey I did this and it works. Vesa allows some hardware to work. It does have limitations though such as no 3d effects.. 

----------------------------------------------------------------
When you go to the text terminal, log into it, and then type the following:

Code:
```

sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

(that first X is a capital X)

This opens up a text editor. In the Section Device part, just under the line that begins "Identifier", type:

Code:

```
Driver "vesa"
```

Use tabs so that the new part lines up with the old part.

Save your changes by pressing Control-O and pressing Enter, and then quit by pressing Control-X. Reboot:

Code:

```
sudo reboot
```

---

### Post by mne9476 on 2009-02-18
ufireup,

This solved a problem I was having with screen resolution -- thanks for posting the answer.

My machine was running fine for months, but for some strange reason, it decided to boot up in 768x600 or whatever, with no other options available for resolution. Nothing changed at all changed -- no new software installed, no updates etc. It just decided to all of a sudden, boot up without the proper video configuration.

It's a S3 Savage in an IBM PC300GL.

---

### Post by mne9476 on 2009-02-19
> **mne9476 said:**
> ufireup,

This solved a problem I was having with screen resolution -- thanks for posting the answer.

My machine was running fine for months, but for some strange reason, it decided to boot up in 768x600 or whatever, with no other options available for resolution. Nothing changed at all changed -- no new software installed, no updates etc. It just decided to all of a sudden, boot up without the proper video configuration.

It's a S3 Savage in an IBM PC300GL.

The login panel still displays in a very low resolution, but after the desktop comes up, things look ok. Still, the resolution seems lower than what I had before this "event" took place.

---

### Post by forestwalkerjoe on 2009-02-27
I am still rather a new guy.. so.. take my suggestions and read around first. 
I have an S3 savage card , which is much older , i would think than yours. 
Mine is for a Viao from 2000. 
I didnt have the exact problem you have but it was still a video issue that hangs or corrupts. First, back up your xorg config by typing this into your terminal. 
 ```
cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf ~/Desktop/xorg.conf-backup
```
[THIS LINK ]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-savage/+bug/33617")Solved a lot of problems for me. 
Vesa is a kinda catch all video display.. so you get bad resolutions.. some systems.. it looks great.. others.. like mine.. comes out all donkey kong. before you use the above link.. try these..
open a terminal type " sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf 
then copy paste this : 
 ```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
driver "savage"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```
Reboot.. does that help much? 
if not.. 
. open a terminal.. this was what i was told to do.. so back up your config first. " sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.config Below the Idnetifier  Sectionn Devices area.. 
Type 
Driver "vesa"  ( make sure you used cap on the "D" and smalls on the vesa with Marks) the hit control "o" to save it.. then to quit type control "x". reboot. that should help. 
another thing that helped me.. before i found the link above.. was open terminal and type " sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Save it and reboot. 
If this does help solve the issue.. reboot again and see if it sticks.. if not.. we will have to have some one else help you out. 
If this does help a bit.. then go back to the link at top and add the 2 comments that are on the link into your xorg conf and save it.. they helped me a great deal. 

FWJ

---

