---
title: "11.10- Installing onto Windows"
date: 2011-12-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Light Knight 22 on 2011-12-09
Hello,

I was curious, and would like to attempt if possible, if one can install a Windows program on Windows FROM Ubuntu? I'm not sure how hard/impossible it would be, but I'd appreciate any suggestions.

Thanks.

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-12-09
It's the best way to crash your Windows installation. Before everything make an image of your Windows.

---

### Post by jaimeaux on 2011-12-09
Wow. What exactly do you mean by installing a windows program on windows from linux? 

I fail to see the point.

I suppose you could download an open-source program and install it on windows w/ a compiler.......

---

### Post by cortman on 2011-12-09
Sounds to me like an exercise in, if not futility, redundancy. I don't know of any reason to do such a thing.

---

### Post by mlentink on 2011-12-09
> **Light Knight 22 said:**
> Hello,

I was curious, and would like to attempt if possible, if one can install a Windows program on Windows FROM Ubuntu? I'm not sure how hard/impossible it would be, but I'd appreciate any suggestions.

Thanks.


Short answer: you can't. To install windows software you need a windows installer, which is a windows executable which runs on windows.

---

### Post by Light Knight 22 on 2011-12-09
Yes it does seem somewhat pointless. I'll explain what the situation was (I really hope I'm not breaking the code of conduct, but I don't think I would consider this illegal). 

I would like to install some basic programs like Adobe Reader on my work computer today. Unfortunately, I don't have admin status, and would have to wait a few days to get an admin to come in here and do it, I was simply wondering if I could us the Ubuntu partition I have to install it from there.

Edit: Ok mlentink. Understood. 

Thanks everyone, I will get an IT to come install it.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2011-12-09
Given this 

> Unfortunately, I don't have admin status, and would have to wait a few days to get an admin to come in here and do it,

I'm closing this thread.

---

