---
title: "11.10vs11.04 and upgrade q"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by neil_1 on 2011-10-19
is 11.10 more stable/bugs from 11.04 fixed up ?
would it be better to use ?

also is it better if i upgrade from update manager or do a complete install of ubuntu ?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-10-19
My clean installation if Unity 3D 11.10 works very well  . Gnome 3 is quite different from Gnome 2 and some things have been removed on the new version and there are mix opinions about that . If you are a fan of Ubuntu Classic you may not want update /upgrade 

I prefer a clean installation , it's extra work but that is my choice . Many problems are reported pertaining to upgrades on this forum , but it is a help forum , so you read about the failures rather than successes when it comes to upgrades. [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OneiricUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OneiricUpgrades)

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-10-19
> **neil_1 said:**
> is 11.10 more stable/bugs from 11.04 fixed up ?
would it be better to use ?


Depends on the bugs. Many of the old bugs will have been sorted, but 11.10 has new versions of most packages, so there might be new bugs. There's no such thing as bug-free software, the issue is whether there are any particular show-stopper bugs that are annoying you.

> 
also is it better if i upgrade from update manager or do a complete install of ubuntu ?

Either is fine, it's personal preference. I used to do clean installs, but I find upgrading much less hassle these days.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2011-10-19
In my opinion, if you have heavily modified your 11.04 desktop environment then you should either take everything back to a standard 11.04 Unity desktop or fresh install.

I have noticed that some are having problems when they upgrade. I wonder (I do not know) if the problems are caused by installing themes that work in Gnome 2 but not in Gnome 3 or perhaps they installed Gnome 3 and Gnome shell over Ubuntu Gnome 2 and Unity.

A fresh install will remove old Gnome 2 libraries and configuration files for sure. The upgrade process knows the standard files that have to be removed but the developers have no way of knowing what we have done to modify the system. Upgrading may leave some files behind that may conflict with Gnome 3 and Unity. This is just something that I wonder about.

As for bugs being fixed. Well, in 11.04 I could not have Compiz enable wobbly windows because it removed the top panel in Unity. But in 11.10 this is fixed. I cannot speak for the other Compiz effects. They may also now work better than in 11.04

I have been using 11.10 as my main working Ubuntu since beta 2. It is stable. I have decided to fresh install 11.10 over 11.04 and make that my main work area and then install 12.04 onto the partition I am using now so I can share in testing the next release.

Regards.

---

