---
title: "12.04 broke nvclock?"
date: 2012-05-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by d4m1r on 2012-05-05
Hey guys, did anyone else running 12.04 manage to get nvclock working because I can't :confused: I tried installing it through the software centre, and by installing both the 32 bit and 64 bit .deb's available on nvclock's official launchpad, but I always get the same result:

```
damir@damir-ubuntu:~$ nvclock -f -F 80
Segmentation fault (core dumped)

```

I have a GTX 260 so currently it is running on stock fan speed which is low, and I use nvclock to set it higher (login script). Yes I know I can get temperature values from the official Nvidia application, but I am trying to set fan speed, not read the temperate....Anyone have any ideas? :(

---

### Post by d4m1r on 2012-05-06
Is nobody else using nvclock :confused: Is anyone able to set their Nvidia GPU's fan speed manually using something else under 12.04?

---

### Post by asino89 on 2012-05-09
I use nvclock for screen backlight control on my Sony Vaio VGN-NR31S.
I have the same errors you got: they started when (in ubuntu 11.10) the nvidia drivers updated to the latest version 295.40 (on 11-04-2012).
Now, in ubuntu 12.04 (with the same drivers) I have the same problems.

Does anyone know what is wrong whith nvclock?

Thank you!

---

### Post by BeRoot ReBoot on 2012-05-09
Same problem here.

---

### Post by d4m1r on 2012-05-09
Not sure why it's broken but it just is....

See [THIS ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11919265")thread I created for an alternative way to gain control of your Nvidia GPU's fan that works for me in 12.04.

---

### Post by asino89 on 2012-05-15
Unfortunately this doesn't solve my problem.
I NEED to use nvclock, because there is no other way to get the control of the backlight with my GPU.
Any news about it?
Thanks!

---

### Post by Lisiano on 2012-05-15
nvclock is broken due to recent drivers, you can just use nvidia-settings as nvclock. To set the GPU fan speed just issued these
```
nvidia-settings -a [gpu:0]/GPUFanControlState=1
```
That enables modifying the Fan speed
```
nvidia-settings -a [fan:0]/GPUCurrentFanSpeed=100
```Set's the speed.

```
nvidia-settings -e list
``` for all the settings, replace list for all for it to tell what does what

Remember to set coolbits to 5.

For Brightness, you might want TVBrightness or just Brightness

---

### Post by asino89 on 2012-05-15
Thank you very much Lisiano for the suggestion.
My problem is that I can't use nvidia-settings as nvclock, because I was using a modified version of nvclock that let me change the brightness (I have one of those Sony Vaio in which the brightness can't be changed with "traditional" commands)!

Any ideas?
Thanks!

---

### Post by Lisiano on 2012-05-15
Not sure but could you try echoing this?
```
echo "0" | sudo tee /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness
```
Replace 0 with any number from 0 to 7. Think that should change the backlight without using the Fn keys.

EDIT: I don't own nor seen a laptop that won't change it's brightness. I did see a VAIO once but it did change brightness, even in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by asino89 on 2012-05-16
Thank you for helping, but I think my problem is a little bit more complex.
My problem is quite usual for a series of notebook with nvidia graphic card.
A bug was open in launchpad ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hotkey-setup/+bug/95444](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hotkey-setup/+bug/95444)) and a solution was found: through a modified version of nvclock you can have the backlight control.
The problem actually is that whit the new nvidia drivers nvclock doesn't work!!

So, this is the problem!

I even tried to install the old nvidia drivers versions (through .run installers), but I didn't manage to complete the installation!

Any help will be useful!
Thanks!

---

### Post by svtguy88 on 2012-07-25
I picked up a GT640 a few weeks ago to replace my aging Quadro.  So far, it's reasonably impressive for a "multimedia card."  

Anyway, I stumbled across nvclock, and I get the same seg fault error.  Also, the GUI version of nvclock fails complaining about not finding xrandr.

Are there plans to fix nvlock?

---

### Post by pxshock on 2012-08-08
Hey Guys,

does any one have any insight (perhaps fixes) to this? my eyes are burning...and im having to use windows (very very sad) because i cant dim my screen.


user@pc:~$ nvclock -S 15
Segmentation fault (core dumped)

---

### Post by IntuitiveNipple on 2012-08-22
See [bug #1039916 Nvidia driver causing SIGSEGV in nvclock and smartdimmer]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvclock/+bug/1039916")

---

### Post by xekon on 2013-02-26
> **Lisiano said:**
> nvclock is broken due to recent drivers, you can just use nvidia-settings as nvclock. To set the GPU fan speed just issued these
```
nvidia-settings -a [gpu:0]/GPUFanControlState=1
```
That enables modifying the Fan speed
```
nvidia-settings -a [fan:0]/GPUCurrentFanSpeed=100
```Set's the speed.

This works:

nvidia-settings -a [fan:0]/GPUCurrentFanSpeed=100

but only if you first launch nvidia-settings and check the box to "Enable GPU Fan Settings" under Thermal settings section.

I have to check that box every single time I restart my computer or I cannot set the fan speed, how did you overcome this problem?

---

### Post by d4m1r on 2013-02-26
I created a fanspeed.sh file in my home directory and set it to run automatically on startup:

```
nvidia-settings -a [gpu:0]/GPUFanControlState=1 && nvidia-settings -a [fan:0]/GPUCurrentFanSpeed=80
```

---

### Post by xekon on 2013-02-26
worked, perfect! thank you so much :)

---

### Post by d4m1r on 2013-02-27
> **xekon said:**
> worked, perfect! thank you so much :)

No problem!

---

