---
title: ".run files"
date: 2009-06-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ricardino on 2009-06-20
hi all, ive downloaded the latest graphics driver from Nvidia and its in .run format. Ive established that it *isnt* a shell script so sh doesnt work, ive changed its permissions using chmod to make it esecutable, however when i click on it, it asks to be run with root priveleges. 
Goign through terminal, ive tried:

sudo Nvidia-Linux-x86-185.18.14-pkg1.run

and it now says that the comman disnt recognised. What would the terminal command be to run this file?
thanks.

---

### Post by Trebaruna on 2009-06-20
Have you tried:
```
sudo ./Nvidia-Linux-x86-185.18.14-pkg1.run
```The reason it cannot do what you want is that Ubuntu searches a set of standard locations for programs to run. This file isn't in one of them. For security reasons the current directory is not included for root to prevent accidentally running programs you didn't want to, so you need to specifically state that what you want to run is in the current directory: the "./" does just that.

---

### Post by hyperdude111 on 2009-06-20
Rename your download to NV.run then move it to your home directory.


Press Ctrl-alt-F1

Login through the console

First:
sudo apt-get purge nvidi-*

Then:
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

Then:
sudo sh NV

Then re-boot
----
Be careful this can go wrong if it is the wrong driver for your hardware.

---

### Post by saidinesh5 on 2009-06-20
well 3 steps to install the NVIDIA display driver on ubuntu:

0)put it in a place where you can find it easliye, for example your HOME folder
1) press ctrl + alt + F1 and login with your user id and password
2) type: 
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
(key in your password: this is to actually stop the currently running display server, so that you can now update it with your NVIDIA driver)


and then navigate to the file and type 
sudo sh <NVIDIA DRIVER FILE NAME>

3) sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
(to start your display manager back and continue with what you are working on)


P.S , if you are a newbie , i would still recommend to use the restricted hardware drivers in the system> administration to automatically download and install the approp. driver for your NVIDIA card

good luck :)

TADA!!!

---

