---
title: "10.10 LAMP I can't access my files properly 403 forbidden?"
date: 2011-01-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by demolicious on 2011-01-18
I've installed LAMP and PHPmyadmin. LAMP has its default configuration and it's pretty much a fresh install of Ubuntu 10.10 desktop.

Here is an example of what it says when I try to access from localhost (also if I access from external)

403 forbidden

Forbidden

You don't have permission to access /other-server-items/www/ on this server.
Apache/2.2.16 (Ubuntu) Server at 127.0.0.1 Port 80

The "other-server-items" is just a copy of my WAMP files and I can access the "other-server-items" file but I doesn't even display www and when I type in localhost/other-server-items/www/ it gives me that 403 forbidden error.

Any help to resolve this would be much appreciated. :)

---

### Post by adeee on 2011-01-18
as i know and in my testing it happend because installing mysql twice. (lampp also install mysql.)
So my opinion is to just remove mysql in synaptic package manger. and then try.

---

### Post by demolicious on 2011-01-18
I'm new to Linux.. I know what mysql and the synaptic package manager is.. but There are multiple things relating to mysql.. And there doesnt seem to be any copies :S

I've got mysql-server, mysql-server-5.1, mysql-server-core-5.1, mysql-common and 3 mysql clients in the same convention as server..

Which one(s) should i remove.. Or could it possibly be another problem?

---

### Post by wojox on 2011-01-18
> **demolicious said:**
> Or could it possibly be another problem?

It sounds like a permissions or wrong path problem. Where is /other-server-items/www/ located in the filesystem? Is it in /var/www/? Or did you just create it in your /home?

---

### Post by rakete on 2011-01-18
if you are new to linux and need a lamp stack for developing purposes (rather than productive purposes) I can only recommend xampp ([www.apachefriends.org](www.apachefriends.org))

---

### Post by demolicious on 2011-01-20
> **wojox said:**
> It sounds like a permissions or wrong path problem. Where is /other-server-items/www/ located in the filesystem? Is it in /var/www/? Or did you just create it in your /home?

How do i change permissions so that people can access it from external (such as myself downloading a file from school/relatives/friends house)

I made my own one line script (i know calling it a script might be exaggerating) to do it.. Dunno how to get explorer.exe (or whatever Ubuntu's explorer is called) to run in 'sudo' mode

This is the code i used (didn't save it so this is pretty much it.. i think -t chooses the directory you want to copy to)

sudo cp <media id of windows drive/wamp/ -t /var/www/server-other-items/

Well that script worked.. And copied properly to that directory.. A few gigs, like some videos i stream to myself from other locations..

---

