---
title: "Graphics and Display Problem with Hardy"
date: 2008-06-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kai_wren on 2008-06-18
Hi guys, I'm having some problems with the display on my Lenovo U110.  The maximum resolution hardy will allow me to display is 800x600, while the monitor should be able to run 12x8.  I've googled around for a bit, and it seems that the problem may be that  the autodetect for the monitor is buggy (it detects a generic plug and play monitor), but I don't know the manufacturer of the monitor (changing to a generic 12x8 monitor in screens and graphics doesnt work).  

In addition to this, in Apps -> Other -> Screens and Graphics -> Graphics Card, I can't change the drivers to the intel drivers (default is vesa); when I change to intel and test, it says that "the configuration test has failed, please verify the selected devices."  When I try to change the video driver in xorg.conf to "intel" and reboot, the screen remains black; I can hear the sounds on the login screen and if I login blind, I hear ubuntu start, but the screen remains black and I have to unedit my xorg.conf to boot normally.

System specs are:
intel L7500 1.6ghz
intel GM965 chipset
2gigs of ram

Anyone know how to fix these problems?  Please note that I am very new to linux(<1 week) so detailed explanations may be necessary :(  THanks a bunch!

xorg.conf is as follows:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf databaase.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
a
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver        "synaptics"
    Option        "SendCoreEvents"    "true"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
    Option        "Protocol"        "auto-dev"
    Option        "HorizEdgeScroll"    "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver        "vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by OldTimeTech on 2008-06-18
Check this URL is if it has some answers for you;

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=832000&highlight=screen+resolutions](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=832000&highlight=screen+resolutions)

---

### Post by OldTimeTech on 2008-06-18
Also might try this code:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

---

### Post by kai_wren on 2008-06-18
Thanks for the reply

> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.p...en+resolutions](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.p...en+resolutions)
I followed the link in the 7th post here, then followed the instructions from post 11.  ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766846&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766846&page=2))
This allowed me to select a new monitor and to grab abetter resolution (10x7) but it did not allow me to select any widescreen monitors without a crash.  When I select a generic monitor from the list with a widescreen ratio, it does not provide widescreen resolution options (i.e. if i select a 1280x800 generic monitor, the highest resolution option is 1024x768, and none of the lower options are widescreen either).  However, when I check the "widescreen monitor" button which allows me to select widescreen resolutions, the computer boots with a blank or extremely glitchy screen. 

I also tried adding new resolutions to the xorg.conf file like those other threads said, but they do not show up after a restart.  I still can't enable the Intel drivers from either the Screens + graphics application or in xorg.conf or in the proprietary hardware app.  I've tried changing from the "vesa" driver to "i810" and "intel" in xorg.conf but both result in a black screen instead of the login splash.  I know I have the drivers (sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-intel tells me i have the newest ones) but I can't seem to get them to work.

> sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
I believe this command no longer allows you to edit video settings in hardy.  It just throws a bunch of stuff about your keyboard at you then closes.  At least thats what happens for me.

Maybe I'm doing something wrong in editing xorg.conf.  Here's what I have that works (with 1024x768@61hz).  I noted the places where I tried to edit it, just in case I did something wrong there.  Thanks again for the help.

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver        "synaptics"
    Option        "SendCoreEvents"    "true"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/psaux"
    Option        "Protocol"    "auto-dev"
    Option        "HorizEdgeScroll"    "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Boardname    "vesa"
    Busid        "PCI:0:2:0"
    Driver        "vesa"  ###This is where I tried to change to intel and i810 drivers.  I don't know what to put for boardname.###
    Screen    0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
    Vendorname    "Generic LCD Display"
    Modelname    "LCD Panel 1280x800"
    Horizsync    31.5-50.0
    Vertrefresh    56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
    Gamma    1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    Defaultdepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    24
        Virtual    1024    768
        Modes        "1024x768@60"    "800x600@60"    "800x600@56" "640x480@60" ###This is where I added the resolutions I wanted###
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
    Inputdevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
    Load        "glx"
    Load        "GLcore"
    Load        "v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
    Identifier    "device1"
    Boardname    "vesa"
    Busid        "PCI:0:2:0"
    Driver        "vesa"
    Screen    1
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
    Identifier    "screen1"
    Device        "device1"
    Defaultdepth    24
    Monitor        "monitor1"
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    24
        Modes        "640x480@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
    Identifier    "monitor1"
    Vendorname    "Plug 'n' Play"
    Modelname    "Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
    Gamma    1.0
EndSection
Section "device" # 
    Identifier    "device2"
    Boardname    "VESA driver (generic)"
    Busid        "PCI:0:2:1"
    Driver        "vesa"
    Screen    0
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
    Identifier    "screen2"
    Device        "device2"
    Defaultdepth    24
    Monitor        "monitor2"
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    24
        Modes        "640x480@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
    Identifier    "monitor2"
    Vendorname    "Plug 'n' Play"
    Modelname    "Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
    Gamma    1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-06-18
Be sure to install the restricted drivers:

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r)

---

### Post by kai_wren on 2008-06-18
haha yeah i did forget to update.  But after doing so, nothing seems to have changed.  I still get a glitched screen when trying to enable widescreen resolutions, black screen when enabling intel drivers.

Edit:  Well, the default monitor is now a plug and play with 1024x768 resolution (a step up from 8x6!) but still unable to 1280x800 or other widescreen ratios to work :(

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-06-18
Did you try:
sudo displayconfig-gtk

Just a thought.......

---

### Post by kai_wren on 2008-06-18
Yeah, there's no difference between running that in terminal and accessing the Screes and Graphics GUI from Applications -> Other -> Screens and Graphics right?  Thats where I've been trying to select widescreen monitors (when you click on the monitor, theres a checkbox in the lower left corner that says "widescreen monitor" which makes the screen go nuts when its selected and restarted).

---

### Post by Omar777 on 2008-08-31
Hi, I have had the same problems. After reinstalling Ubuntu and updating and adding a modeline to Xorg.conf file I have 1366x768 resolution. But with Vesa drivers, unfortunately. Here is my xorg.conf. You can tell that it was created with Dexconf and not the failsafe version. Just paste and save mine and then ctl+alt+backspace (kill) and it should work. Use this terminal command to edit your xorg.conf.```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

paste this:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1366x768"
	Horizsync	31.5-48.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1366x768@60" 84.50 1360 1392 1712 1744 768 783 791 807 -hsync -vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1366	768
		Modes		"1366x768@60"   "1024x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"	"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device2"
	Boardname	"VESA driver (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:1"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	0
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen2"
	Device		"device2"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor2"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor2"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection
Hope this works out for you and you can finally enjoy Ubuntu without have to compromise resolution.

---

### Post by soccerush10 on 2008-11-23
This worked for Hardy, but not for Ibex (Ubuntu 8.10).

---

### Post by Omar777 on 2008-11-24
try installing ibex again. my xorg.conf file worked on my install of 8.10. make sure its the latest release.

---

### Post by lemsto on 2009-06-30
Please have a look there :
[http://www.linlap.com/wiki/lenovo+ideapad+u110](http://www.linlap.com/wiki/lenovo+ideapad+u110)

There's a Xorg conf file to make the intel driver work ...

(I just bought the U110 I'll receive next week, so I'm interrested to know if it works for you ??)

---

