---
title: "[SOLVED] display issues inspiron 4000 ati mobility 128 correct drivers???"
date: 2008-06-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by twodogsdad on 2008-06-09
Hello all, 
I'm learning about/how to/etc Ubuntu (and Xubuntu) by installing and running it on an old Dell Inspiron 4000 laptop.
As with some others I'm having trouble with the display. I've spent the last few days reading other's posts and have, finally, learned how to edit my xorg.conf file. 

My question:
How can I get the proprietary drivers for the ATI Mobility 128 x2 and the Samsung 14000 LCD hardware in my laptop?

I have been playing with editing xorg.conf and spell out my results below.

Thanks in advance. This is a great forum. :-\"

Background:
Original Problem:
The maximum screen resolution I could get was 800x600 and my xorg.conf file was ...
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

I was able to add the SubSection "Display" and Mode, Depth, etc... rebooted using ctl-alt-bckspc and voila 1024x768... except for my new problem

Subsequent problem:
The desktop has shrunk and only occupies the center of the screen, leaving dead space around it. I went back to my backup of xorg.conf (as above) and the resolution went back to 800x600 and the desktop got smaller yet. So I stopped.
When I made my first xorg.conf change and rebooted Ubuntu came up telling me it was going to run in reduced graphics mode (or some such). I presume that is what is going on with the small desktop. One thing I tried was hitting the configure button in that window and that gave me some options to select hardware and drivers. I haven't seen that option from System>Preferences, etc before. I selected the Rage Mobility 128 driver (that was the closest but Win XP Pro hardware configuration only calls it ATI mobility 128 x2) and I selected a 1024x768 LCD for the display since the Samsung 14000 wasn't an option. (That is the LCD in these laptops.) Those changes didn't make a difference in the performance though they did change the xorg.conf file (don't have a copy of it here to post.)

Question; I set my Depth to 24 as per other posts, should it be different?

Thanks!:popcorn:

---

### Post by twodogsdad on 2008-06-09
Well, never mind. After letting the laptop sit for 18 hours, I just booted it up and it came up with the screen looking fine.

:)

---

