---
title: "14.04 LTS video driver"
date: 2014-09-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by johnsail on 2014-09-27
Hi. Under instruction from a forum member I successfully rebuilt the kernel and the virtualbox drivers. This instruction included the following advice:-  **be aware that proprietary drivers may or may not work correctly with  this kernel version. You need to rebuilt (or install) your video driver  after kernel update**.  I have not rebuilt (or installed) the video driver 'cos I do not know how.  Video and/or mouse now erratic and slow to respond.  All help gratefully received.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-09-27
First of all, help other to help you. Avoid cryptic posts like the one above which is only intelligible for those drilling down in your posts/threads to find this one:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2245551](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2245551)
Although a different issue altogether it would be better to ask for the clarification in that thread instead of opening a new one.
Nevertheless, if you don't know how to install a different - proprietary - video driver, then you can safely ignore that sentence: You never installed it in the first place.

---

### Post by johnsail on 2014-09-27
many thatnks for your help!
Unfortunately I did not install ubuntu - it was installed by a prtner who has since departed - so I cannot say what video driver was installed.
I was asking for help to find out if one had been installed and if so - how to install it.
In the meantime I am following an ubuntu tutorial in the hope that it will help.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-09-27
Regardless of who installed it in the first place and how, knowing your own hardware is a good starting point for many things. 
Particularly regarding the warning you mentioned that applies only to nVIDIA or ATI/AMD cards/chips. Intel works with open source drivers only. If yours is the latter, again, you can safely ignore the warning. However, if the former, at this point in time we cannot know for sure if there was a proprietary driver in use before you upgraded the kernel (we can infer some was mostly likely in use if we find traces of files with nvidia or fglrx in their names.

Please check the "Additional Drivers" tab at System Settings > Software & Updates.

---

### Post by johnsail on 2014-09-28
'Additional drivers' says  'No additional drivers in use' and after searching comes back with "No additional drivers available'.

Am away for a few days so will pick this up again later in the week.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-09-28
So you don't have to worry about that warning: You aren't using any proprietary drivers and there's none available, hence not required.

---

