---
title: "nvidia driver issue"
date: 2009-07-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by aditya2507 on 2009-07-04
Hi,

Like almost everyone here, I need help. 

I had been using the Nvidia 7200 + Ubuntu Jaunty for the last so many months without issue. Earlier when I had installed Ubuntu I had had some problems with Nvidia installation but then I had downloaded the driver from Nvidia's website and installed it on my system and things were fine.

Then in one of the system updates that Ubuntu does, it all messed up. Since then I have tried and tried but Ubuntu doesnt seem to be running the proper Nvidia drivers (and this from a system update, I didn't do anything!)

So as the last resort I went, as someone in a forum suggested -- I removed everything related to Nvidia from Synaptic, downloaded the latest driver from Nvidia's website and tried to run it. It told me that it had found some previous drivers installed and it complained about a few missing things and when I restarted Ubuntu I am back to square one. So I went to Hardware Drivers section where I installed Nvidia drivers and activated it there, ran the Nvidia-xconf and still when I try to enable the desktop effects, nothing is working. 

In the extreme scenaio, I could reinstall jaunty but I want to try out everything before that happens.

Thank you for your attention. I do appreciate your help on this.

Here is the output of my Xorg.conf:

```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder57)  Sat Jan 24 20:04:42 PST 2009

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


```

---

### Post by austinpsycho on 2009-07-04
when I went to install new drivers from nvidia; I had to go to terminal type in ```
init 1
``` browse to my install and type *sh NV{tab}{enter}* then tell it i didn't care if i was at the wrong init level and to go ahead and compile

the install script even asked if i wanted to reconfig xwin; i clicked yes; all my nvidia problems solved..  the only issue is that you should keep the file because when the kernel updates you have to do it all over again...  so kinda a pain but...

---

### Post by aditya2507 on 2009-07-04
> browse to my install and type sh NV{tab}{enter} then tell it i didn't care if i was at the wrong init level and to go ahead and compile

I have done that. I did that again. Its the same old issue. While compiling it says "Unable to open /usr/lib/nvidia/libglx.so.xserver-xorg-core for reading". 

It does say the driver is installed but when I restart gdm, I get the message "Failed to initialize NVIDIA kernel module". And Ubuntu has to start in low graphics mode (thanks so that, I can at least login here and write this to you!)

---

### Post by aditya2507 on 2009-07-04
Okay, I think I have resolved this. Here is what I did.

As it turned out, this problem was because the Nvidia driver Kernel and driver were mismatched. So I uninstalled the existing Nvidia on my system using "nvidia-uninstall". Before that, and I think this is also important is that I removed all the Nvidia Kernel packages installed on my system using Symantec. This I had never done in attempts before. Basically, after the driver was installed (earlier attempt), the 180.44 kernel package was causing it to fail (mismatch with the driver, which was 180.51) 

I also had the latest driver for my system from the nvidia website (ver 185.18.14). I also had the older one which was working before the problem came up (ver 180.51). I then tried to install the 185 version and it got installed fine but it didnt work because (I am guessing) nvidia kernel installed on Ubuntu was 180.44. So I uninstalled 185 and then installed 180.51 again. Remember, this time there were no existing nvidia kernel packages on the system.

One thing that I remember I did different was that after the driver installation, I did not let it write it on the xorg.conf file. I chose "No" there and after the installation, I ran "nvidia-config".  

Two lessons learnt from this (and correct me if I am wrong, anyone)

1. I have to be careful of Kernel updates from now on. Meaning I cannot let Ubuntu update my system without having a quick look at it. 

2. nvidia drivers from the website are always handy, irrespective of what Synaptic tells you.

---

