---
title: "12.04 LTS crashes"
date: 2012-04-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by paker on 2012-04-26
Fresh install.
64 bit 
Old OS: 10.04 LTS

Place CD in CD drive. Restart. After selecting English and "install", CD spins a few minutes. The first screen crashes to dots and speckles. What's wrong? Tried DVD. Same. Tried lowest burn speed. Same.
Thanks.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-27
What manufacturer and model of video adapter are you using?

---

### Post by paker on 2012-04-27
I don't remember the maker. It's based on an nVidia chip. GeForce GT 240.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-27
I've had the same problem with my GTS 450.  I had to put nomodeset in the boot parameters before I could get past it.  If you don't know how to do that and need help, post back and we'll figure it out.  It's been a while since I did that off the LiveCD, but we'll get it.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by paker on 2012-04-27
> **anewguy said:**
> I've had the same problem with my GTS 450.  I had to put nomodeset in the boot parameters before I could get past it.  If you don't know how to do that and need help, post back and we'll figure it out.  It's been a while since I did that off the LiveCD, but we'll get it.

Dave ;)I will take the offer with appreciation. I haven't been able to pass the screen crash with previous versions of ubuntu. It's why I am still at 10.04. 

I will wait for your reply. In the meantime, I will google nomodeset and get some reading done. Thanks again.

---

### Post by paker on 2012-04-28
For my own record,

Before selecting "install ubuntu" > F6 > nomodeset > ESC > after installation is complete >  during reboot, F12 (?) > recovery > the step leads to regular boot > accept > install nvidia driver. From this point on, no problem.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-29
Sorry I'm late getting back here - I got distracted and really just forgot!  Sorry!  You did exactly what I was going to have you do so good job!

Again, sorry I forgot!

dave ;)

---

