---
title: "10.04 Mouse Cursor Disappears (Monitor Settings)"
date: 2010-05-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-05-27
Hello,

I have currently been experiencing monitor issues. Hardware is as follows:
```
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 01)

```My monitor is designed to run at 75 Hz, so when I visited System-Preferences-Monitors, I adjusted it to 75 Hz. Unfortunately, as soon as I press "Apply" the mouse cursor disappears. Upon pressing "Apply" a second time my cursor reappears, but upon reboot it disappears yet again. If I switch back to 85 Hz the cursor ends up reappearing upon reboot. The prime reason I want to change to 75 Hz is also because I've been experiencing crashes on 85 Hz due to driver issues, even after having tried various fixes on the "Lucidi8xxFreezes" wiki page. However, I believe that won't see anymore crashes if my monitor is running at the correct refresh rate.

Thanks in advance for any assistance,


aust77

---

### Post by Rob503 on 2010-05-27
I'm having the exact same problem at work with a old Gateway E4000 series. Believe it's intel 845 video. This machine has multiple issues with multiple distros. The most receint one that worked consistantly was 8.04 w/o updates. Never rebooted successfully with 8.10, 9.04, or 9.10.
 
Cursor stays if I leave the refresh at 75 but the flat panel TV attached looks nasty if not reduced to 60. Anyone have any suggestions? Does this on a fresh install, first boot right after changing the refresh rate.
 
After posting found this one:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1448684&highlight=intel](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1448684&highlight=intel)
 
Althought that pose deals mostly with screen crashes, not just disappearing cursor, seems the Intel chipset is the problem maker. Back to 8.04 for the work machine until this gets fixed.

---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-05-28
bump

---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-05-29
bump

---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-05-30
bump

---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-05-31
bump

---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-05-31
I suppose I'll cease bumps and just switch to 9.04 (last working release), Windows, or wait until 10.10, crossing my fingers that it might work.

---

### Post by hgrobben on 2010-07-07
I'm experiencing the same:
the mouse cursor sometimes disappears, but still functioning.

Now the funny part: I run 2 monitors. It only disappears on the main screen.

Setup:
U10.04LTS x64
NVidia 8500GT with nouveau OpenSource drivers
1 * 20" Digitally attached screen (main)
1 * 19" Analogue attached screen

Anybody an idea about it? It doesn't happen to often, only twice to date.

---

### Post by drhodes on 2010-07-18
hgrobben, I've got the same problem.  With the two monitors, nVidia GeForce 9600 card and nouveau drivers.

---

### Post by hgrobben on 2010-07-29
At the moment I have the problem again. Switching to an other console by <ctrl><alt><F?> doesn't help, the console doesn't appear, and the screen locks (music stops as usual when changing to a console).
Running programs:
- Firefox
- VMPlayer
- Thunderbird
- Rhythmbox playing internet radio stream
- OpenOffice.org Writer

I will try to get out of this situation without rebooting.
(Ubuntu 10.04 x64)

---

### Post by Lost_in_Lynx on 2010-09-04
Hi - My mouse cursor disappears when I'm running at 1164x864 at 75Hz, until I run Terminal, and press enter a couple of times.

I'm running Lucid Lynx 10.04 on older Dell equipment (Dimension 2400 with a Celeron 2.4GHz, 400MHz front-side bus, with 2GB of RAM, and either 1MB or 8MB video page buffer (I've tested it both ways), with a USB mouse.

When set to 1024x768 at any refresh, the mouse works fine
When set to 1154x864 at 75Hz (the only supported refresh rate), the mouse returns when I run a text mode app like Terminal.   The mouse is still active, even while disappeared:  I can use it by guessing the screen location -- menu items will flash on mouse-over, for instance, and I've set the "press Ctrl to display mouse location" turned on.

I've read through some posts suggesting this has to do with animated cursors, but no instructions

Anybody have a similar experience?  Anybody have a hint?

Thanks!

---

### Post by davil4 on 2010-09-16
I have the same problem with the mouse pointer, It started after an update.

---

### Post by cdmackay on 2010-09-18
Same here; Dell:

(--) PCI:*(0:0:2:0) 8086:2562:1028:0160 Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device rev 1, Mem @ 0xe8000000/134217728, 0xfeb80000/524288


(II) intel(0): Integrated Graphics Chipset: Intel(R) 845G

changing resolution intermittently causes mouse to disappear. Starting an xterm, and pressing "up" key - to use shell history - makes it return, nothing else found to so far.

problem is intermittent.

10.04, started a few months ago with an update...

---

### Post by 910Radar on 2010-10-26
I have the same issue exactly.  I've tried switching from dual screen mode to "display same on both monitors" (don't try this at home kids) at which point the external and main screens go blank and I have to do a hard reboot, loosing all work.  A patch, bug fix, guidance on how to recover or avoid would be really great, its very embarrassing with Windowers watching.

---

### Post by jkgoya on 2011-01-05
Same problem here.

Ubuntu 10.10
dual screens (only one screen affected)
Zotac GeForce 9800GT

I'm using the default video driver, since the nvidia one doesn't seem to quite work with gdm every time.

It's happened several times, while running:
VMPlayer
Chrome
OpenOffice.org
Gedit

I may have started when I "added" a processor to a windows VM, I'm going to try changing that before restarting again...

---

### Post by kshep92 on 2011-09-03
SI had the same problem, but with my Radeon card. I went to System > Administration > Additional Drivers and installed the proprietary FGLXR driver and rebooted. After that, everything worked like a charm :)

Note: The driver name may be different for you though.

---

