---
title: "19.04 internet unreliable"
date: 2019-04-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by aughey on 2019-04-28
I installed Ubuntu 19.04 as a dual boot with my windoze 10 pro on my Toshiba satellite C850. The connection to the internet was very unreliable. Windows side was very reliable but ubuntu 19 was terrible. I reversed the install for an 18.04 install and find it is solid as a rock. The only difference I made during the install was I did not tick for 3rd party software when installing 18.04. Im new to ubuntu. "I would like to install the newer version but I just dont know if repeating the install without 3rd party software woul;d make my internet more reliable

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2019-04-28
Hi and welcome to the forums :-)

If 18.04, which has long term support, works for you is there some compelling reason to upgrade to a version that has limited support? And, on top of that, as you mentioned there seem to be internet issues.

Unless you really want to dig deeper and try and resolve those issues I recommend sticking with what you know works. It will make for a more pleasant experience.

---

### Post by aughey on 2019-04-29
I took the plunge and reinstalled 19.04 without the 3rd party software. So far my internet connection is perfect. I had thought that the internet would not function without those drivers etc but that seems to have been a false assumption on my part. I now have my dual booting laptop with windows pro and ubuntu. So far so good long may it continue. Thank guys for a great OS. Windows is more like spyware!

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2019-04-29
Happy to hear it all worked out.

Please mark the thread Solved using Thread Tools at the top of the first post.

Enjoy!

---

