---
title: "...........Dual boot screen how do I &quot;*clean it up*&quot;"
date: 2009-09-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by R3fr4cti0n on 2009-09-20
is there any way to have just 2 "two" options when my dual boot screen comes up? as of now i have ubuntu and vista installed but on the dual boot screen its give me 4 options for ubuntu then 1 option for vista i am about to install kubuntu beside ubuntu and vista and i just wanted to clean it up before so, if i have to do this inside the os, how do i do it with kubuntu as well
thanks.

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2009-09-20
Are you going to do a fresh install of kubuntu? If so go ahead and install kubuntu and get it all updated. Then you have a couple of choices...
1. Manually edit menu.lst.
2. Install Startup Manager.
Remember, whichever version of linux you install last will usually overwrite grub during installation (unless you choose otherwise) so do one or the other of the above choices to that last version.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2009-09-20
Nodify instructions when using Kubuntu because menus are different.

1. Let it boot into Ubuntu Linux and enter the user name & password to login.
2. Open a terminal window (hint - use menu - Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal).
3. Type "sudo apt-get install startupmanager" without the quotes in the terminal.
4. Enter your password at the prompt, it doesn't display what you type.
5. After it is installed, go to menu System -> Administration -> StartUp-Manager.
6. In the window that pops up go to the Advanced tab.
7. Check the "Limit number of kernels in the boot menu" box, and select the number of kernels you want to keep.
7. Close the popup window.
8. Restart the computer.

Why do you have separate Kunbuntu and Ubuntu partitions? Why not install KDE on top of the Ubuntu you already have and select which one you what to use when you start the Session?

---

### Post by Darkwing-Duck on 2009-09-23
Here is another way to clean up the menu.list and fix your MBR.

[http://gwos.org/udsf/doku.php/core:grub:restore](http://gwos.org/udsf/doku.php/core:grub:restore)

---

