---
title: "No eth0 interface under /etc/network/interfaces (14.04)"
date: 2014-07-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by PJ_Pankey on 2014-07-29
Hey everyone; thanks in advance for any help/advice.

I've been playing around with Ubuntu for a little while and have never previously experienced this issue. Please note that I do in fact have an eth0 interface automatically configured, because when I type "ifconfig eth0", I receive:

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 4c:72:b9:42:87:8e  
          inet addr:192.168.1.102  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::4e72:b9ff:fe42:878e/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:20405 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:17055 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:13299028 (13.2 MB)  TX bytes:3608997 (3.6 MB)
          Interrupt:20 Memory:f6100000-f6120000 


However, if I enter "cat /etc/network/interfaces", it only shows me:

pjpankey@IntelPC:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces
# interfaces(5) file used by ifup(8) and ifdown(8)
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

I don't see an eth0 interface annotated, so I entered one:

# interfaces(5) file used by ifup(8) and ifdown(8)
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


#The primary network interface
iface eth0 inet static
 address    192.168.1.99
 netmask    255.255.255.0
 broadcast    192.168.1.255
 network    192.168.1.0
 gateway    192.168.1.254
dns-nameservers 192.168.1.254

When I try to run "sudo ifdown eth0 && sudo ifup eth0", I receive:

pjpankey@IntelPC:~$ sudo ifdown eth0
ifdown: interface eth0 not configured
pjpankey@IntelPC:~$ sudo ifup eth0
RTNETLINK answers: File exists
Failed to bring up eth0.




I looked under "/etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules" and saw:

pjpankey@IntelPC:/etc/udev/rules.d$ cat 70-persistent-net.rules 
# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and change only the value of the NAME= key.


# PCI device 0x8086:0x1503 (e1000e)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="4c:72:b9:42:87:8e", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"

Now, what I'm wanting to do is either know where I need to alter my Ethernet interfaces so I can statically assign addresses, or find what file I'm *supposed* to be be configuring instead of /etc/network/interfaces. Again, thanks a lot for any help, advice, and knowledge you can drop on me.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2014-07-29
Hello and welcome to the forums

Modern **desktop** distributions of Ubuntu use Network Manager as the default networking service, which has its own configuration files under /etc/NetworkManager

You can set your static interface properties through the 'IPv4 Settings' tab of the nm-applet tool, either by clicking on the GUI networking icon or by running nm-connection-editor from the command line. You will need to revert your changes to the /etc/networking/interfaces file so they don't conflict.

---

### Post by PJ_Pankey on 2014-07-30
Thanks; I was looking for where NM stored it's settings so this was perfect! Ended up disabling it. Thanks for the quick reply and the help!

---

