---
title: "[8.10] ssh and keys issues"
date: 2008-11-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2008-11-26
I have successfully installed ssh and sshfs on two machines on my local network.

The first machine is a desktop running 8.04.1, connected to the router via cable. The second machine is a notebook running 8.10 and connected via wireless.

I have "id_rsa" keys on both machines and I can mount remote folders on both, but in the notebook whenever I run the command to mount the folder from the desktop it keeps asking me for passphrases. When I first run the command, it asks to unlock the session (don't know exactly what it is because it's in Portuguese) but the passphrase does not work, neither the user password. Then I simply close the dialog and then it asks for the "id_rsa" passphrase, which works.

I have noticed that the desktop has a "Unlock password for 'id_rsa'" in the "Passwords" tab of "Accessories >> Passwords and Encryption Keys", but the notebook does not have one.

The problem is that I want to mount the desktop folder without asking for passwords, because the notebook user is not computer friendly.

Another issue I have, but in the Desktop, is that Nautilus keeps showing old bookmarks after reboot since I installed ssh. I can delete the bookmarks, but they show up again after reboot. Is not a serious problem , but is very annoying.

---

### Post by Xiong Chiamiov on 2008-11-27
You should be able to turn off passkey authentication in the ssh configuration somewhere; I'm not sure how to in Ubuntu, but there should be an sshd_config file somewhere (use "locate sshd_config") where you can change PasswordAuthentication to "no".

Have you considered using nfs?

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2008-11-27
> **Xiong Chiamiov said:**
> You should be able to turn off passkey authentication in the ssh configuration somewhere; I'm not sure how to in Ubuntu, but there should be an sshd_config file somewhere (use "locate sshd_config") where you can change PasswordAuthentication to "no".

Have you considered using nfs?

PasswordAuthentication just control if the user can login without a key, using clear text passwords. It does not affect if a passphrase will be required or not.

Now I realize is a [[COLOR="Red"]**gnome-keyring bug**[/COLOR]]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-keyring/+bug/187127"), not ssh issue.

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2008-11-27
In System->Preferences->Encryption and Keyrings there are some settings, do these help?

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2008-11-27
> **Peter09 said:**
> In System->Preferences->Encryption and Keyrings there are some settings, do these help?

Unfortunately, no. I have already tried those.

---

