---
title: "Can't get mouse to work"
date: 2008-12-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by eddiemolko on 2008-12-26
I've recently installed Ubuntu 8.10 and my mouse does not move.. 
I need help :(

My Mouse is a Genius USB

PS: Sorry for my bad english, i'm from argentina, and the ubuntu-es does not provide any solution for this problem

Thanks

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-12-26
Your English is just fine.

When the mouse is plugged in can you see the light from the bottom?
Have you tried another USB port?

Can you post a copy of you xorg.conf file?
you can do this with out a mouse
Alt+F2 run this command, use tab and then space bar to choose to run from terminal.

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

then select all text (CTRL+A) or save the file elsewhere is needed (Ctrl+S) then please paste back here

---

### Post by eddiemolko on 2008-12-26
Please, anybody??

---

### Post by tomtom1982 on 2008-12-26
Please have a look at this:

[HTML]http://pcdrivers.es/genius-powerscroll-eye-up-driver/download-3623.html[/HTML]

It says you are able to ask for a driver.

---

### Post by eddiemolko on 2008-12-26
Sorry for the post.. i didn't see yours

Yes, the light is on
In any USB Port is the same

Here is my xorg.conf file

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
EndSection

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-12-26
change this
```

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "Emulate3buttons" "true"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection
```

to this ```


Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection
```

Save the xorg file then reboot

---

### Post by eddiemolko on 2008-12-26
It didn'd work. The same. The pointer doesn't move.
:(

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-12-26
there is two other things you can try
boot to recovery mode and try xfix 
or from CLI (with no GUI running- enter from recovery mode)
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

```

---

### Post by eddiemolko on 2008-12-26
i tried both and didn't work
I don't know what to do :S

Thanks anyway

---

