---
title: "9.04- How do I watch dvds? It won't let me!"
date: 2009-08-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by xFlowx on 2009-08-20
It seems as though I ask a question every day.

Well, I've been using **Ubuntu 9.04** for almost two months. I'm sick, and wanted to watch a dvd on my computer, but it seems that I can't because I don't have permission to do so...or something.

I've googled how to do it, and everything I find does not help me. I've tried it, and in doing this I think my computer crashed yesterday. (Can that happen on such a good OS?)

I've installed several different dvd players from my synaptic package manager, and none of them seem to work. Most of them are telling me to install lib-something. Like Libcss2 or something to watch it.
All I really wanna do is be able to watch my anime and Labyrinth on my computer~ how do I go about doing this? It'd be awesome if I could rip them to my computer, but I'm alright with just watching the dvds for now.

I'm sorry if this is in the wrong place--the other places seem to be extra-advanced for me, so I'm asking in the beginner's place.

Thank you for any and all help--I know how to install stuff through my terminal (with the right code given, I've actually written a few that work), and how to install .DEB packages. Just keep in mind that I'm a former windows user and I'm easily confusable.

Please help! This is so frustraiting.

[B]EDIT: Okay, so I can watch DVDs now. However, now they won't play without skipping constantly, but work fine on other DVD players(like my PS2). How can I fix this? Or can I not fix it? I may start a new thread for this question.
[/B]

---

### Post by ibutho on 2009-08-20
You need to install the ubuntu-restricted-extras package using the instructions [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats").

---

### Post by Papa-san on 2009-08-20
I am definitely NOT the expert in this, but I do know that you will need to install the suggested files ('libcs* I think) These dependencies are required for your DVD player to work. 
Whenever you go top Synaptic to install and it gives you other things to install, go ahead and do it. The Synaptic repositories are pretty secure, and the Synaptic program does know what you will need to include. 

As to crashing, it does happen. Especially when one has done some playing with their configurations. Do you have a separate '/home' partition? This is a very wise thing to have so you don't lose your data if something really goes wrong and you have to re-install Ubuntu...

---

### Post by Keen101 on 2009-08-20
google "how to play encrypted DVD's on ubuntu"

[http://geekybits.blogspot.com/2007/10/playing-encrypted-dvds-in-ubuntu-710.html](http://geekybits.blogspot.com/2007/10/playing-encrypted-dvds-in-ubuntu-710.html)

```
# sudo apt-get install libdvdread3 totem-xine libxine1-ffmpeg
# sudo /usr/share/doc/libdvdread3/install-css.sh 
```

---

### Post by nhasian on 2009-08-20
its quite easy.  in a terminal copy and paste the following lines:

```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```

then

```
sudo /usr/share/doc/libdvdread4/install-css.sh
```

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-08-20
Look @ this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7197110&postcount=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7197110&postcount=5)

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-08-20
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu")

---

### Post by xFlowx on 2009-08-20
> **Keen101 said:**
> google "how to play encrypted DVD's on ubuntu"


I said I tried that already and it didn't help me.

---

### Post by xFlowx on 2009-08-20
> **nhasian said:**
> its quite easy.  in a terminal copy and paste the following lines:

```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```then

```
sudo /usr/share/doc/libdvdread4/install-css.sh
```


Thank you so much 8D that fixed it!

---

### Post by xFlowx on 2009-08-20
Whenever you go top Synaptic to install and it gives you other things to install, go ahead and do it. The Synaptic repositories are pretty secure, and the Synaptic program does know what you will need to include. 

As to crashing, it does happen. Especially when one has done some playing with their configurations. Do you have a separate '/home' partition? This is a very wise thing to have so you don't lose your data if something really goes wrong and you have to re-install Ubuntu...[/quote]


Thanks for the information! I don't think I have a separate partition like that, I only have a partition for my OS...

But that would've been helpful yesterday, because I lost -everything- which was horrible...D: All my music and pictures....-sigh-

---

### Post by ibutho on 2009-08-21
> 
Thanks for the information! I don't think I have a separate partition like that, I only have a partition for my OS...

But that would've been helpful yesterday, because I lost -everything- which was horrible...D: All my music and pictures....-sigh-
Its a good idea to create a separate /home partition during install time. /home stores all your personal stuff, so if you need to reinstall Linux or upgrade, you personal files will remain intact. Even when using Windows its wise to store your personal data on a separate partition so that if anything happens to your Windows partition, your personal data is not wiped out when you have to reinstall.

---

### Post by xFlowx on 2009-08-21
> **ibutho said:**
> Its a good idea to create a separate /home partition during install time. /home stores all your personal stuff, so if you need to reinstall Linux or upgrade, you personal files will remain intact. Even when using Windows its wise to store your personal data on a separate partition so that if anything happens to your Windows partition, your personal data is not wiped out when you have to reinstall.


Hahah, so I guess that means that I should do that before I install anything else? I kinda don't wanna go through the hassle of getting flash to work again, but I'll do it since it's worth it majorly.

---

