---
title: "10.10 wireless network doesn't connect"
date: 2011-04-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by normbenign on 2011-04-03
I am a novice user of linux, and a longtime Windows and DOS user.  My intention installing a dual boot on my Toshiba Satelite M115 was to do almost all my email and internet browsing on this machine avoiding the constant viral attacks against Windows.  I was pleasantly surprised to discover Mozilla Firefox, and Open Office included in the basic intall, as I use these aps in Windows.  My files on the laptop can be edited and accessed in either Ubuntu or Windows.
 
The big disappointment is that Ubuntu doesn't connect to my wireless network router, either at home or at WIFI locations.
 
My home network gateway is a b/g/n Tenda router, using WPA2 encryption.  The WIFI spots are unsecured, and the computer in Windows connects automatically (as it should).  
 
In ubuntu, I click on Networks.  An icon Windows Network appears.  Clciking on it gets me to a dialogue box "Can't mount location".  
 
Any ideas?  I have read threads here on similar problems, but hope someone else's experience will save me time and grief.
 
PS  I have several other laptops all newer than this one, WinXP, Vista, and Win7 if it is likely that the newer hardware is more compatible to this version of Linux.  Or would it be likely that an older version of Linux would be better suited to this older laptop, with the limited purpose as a Web and email connection?

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-04-03
There is a network icon on your panel (on the desktop next to the sound icon). Single click that to see any networks.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2011-04-03
The icon you are clicking on is for accessing folders and files on a Windows computer connected to the same network as the Ubuntu machine.

If you go to System>Preferences>Network connections you will see something different. or you can click the network manager icon that is in the top panel on the right side. It looks like four concentric arcs radiating outwards. Does it have a red exclamation mark against it? That means you are not connected.

If you right click you will see two lines = Enable networking and enable wireless. These must have a have mark against them. Clicking on the switches networking and wireless off and on. You can also select Edit connections and get the same dialog boxes as Network connections.

Right click the icon and you should see a list of available wireless networks. Select your wireless network or modem/router and enter the pass phrase and set the encryption method. This should not be necessary in your case as you say the WiFi is unsecured.

If none of the above is available, then you need to make a connection to the modem/router by enternet cable and get an internet connection. Then go to System>Administration>Additional Drivers and activate any drivers available. This will install the drivers. Then go and try out what I was suggesting earlier.

Regards.

---

### Post by normbenign on 2011-04-04
Thanks!  Problem solved.  This is being posted in Ubuntu.   Simply had not tried right clicking the network icon.

---

