---
title: "11.10 is freezing"
date: 2011-10-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jon Anderson on 2011-10-30
Isn't there a few things that I can turn off in Ubuntu to maybe help it from freezing. I thought of loading Lubuntu, what is your thought on trying that to maybe stop this freezing. And I was told that maybe linux mint is a program to try

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2011-10-30
In some cases, heat issues causes software freezes. So have you considered it's not a software issue which is causing this? Bad video drivers can also cause this.

Some have reported that the new unity interface can cause problems, and in that case, you should take a look at the video drivers and or turn off the [Unity interface]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unity_%28user_interface%29") from your Ubuntu system.

---

### Post by gandaran on 2011-10-30
> **Jon Anderson said:**
> Isn't there a few things that I can turn off in Ubuntu to maybe help it from freezing. I thought of loading Lubuntu, what is your thought on trying that to maybe stop this freezing. And I was told that maybe linux mint is a program to try
the freezes could be due to anything, hardware or some incompatibility between hardware and drivers or just some application, try watching carefully what you where doing when the freezes happen, in my case on this desktop I also have freezes but only when using bluetooth and if I happen to open compiz settings manager otherwise everything works nicely.

---

### Post by Jon Anderson on 2011-10-30
> **gandaran said:**
> the freezes could be due to anything, hardware or some incompatibility between hardware and drivers or just some application, try watching carefully what you where doing when the freezes happen, in my case on this desktop I also have freezes but only when using bluetooth and if I happen to open compiz settings manager otherwise everything works nicely.******************Thanks for the response this has been a ongoing problem for more then a year ,done just about everything. but I remember one of the first things I did a year ago was turn off a few programs that were sometimes a issue but I can't remember what they were.

---

### Post by Drowz0r on 2011-10-30
I'd bring up system monitor and see where your memory/CPU usage is going. It's basically task manager for ubuntu.

---

### Post by mbn18 on 2011-10-31
After I upgrade my Ubuntu from 11.04 to 11.10 I had the following issue.
[LIST]
[*]My upgrade Ubuntu 11.10 kept freezing randomly.
[*]Had long delays while booting.
[*]Shutdown kept freezing from time to time
[/LIST]

I have no idea why. I explored the forum and net with no luck and the syslog was not useful in discovering the cause. My hardware is quite decent. Intel 930 I7 and gigabyte MB + 8GB RAM.

I did solved the problem by installing the server kernel
```
sudo apt-get install linux-image-3.0.0-12-server linux-headers-3.0.0-12-server
```

Now its the second day without any freeze. The boot still has long delays, though I can live with it.

Hopes it helps :D

---

### Post by Rodnox on 2011-10-31
The Question is: are these freezings permanent or do they disappear when you move the mouse/touchpad?

---

### Post by Johnny3 on 2011-10-31
> **Jon Anderson said:**
> ******************Thanks for the response this has been a ongoing problem for more then a year ,done just about everything. but I remember one of the first things I did a year ago was turn off a few programs that were sometimes a issue but I can't remember what they were.
Have you tried blowing the dust out. Install Xsensors and see what the temperatures are. Did you upgrade or do a fresh install? If you did and upgrade try a fresh install. You could disable sound in BIOS to see if it is sound card. Just use the default video driver.
Good Luck and God Bless Johnny3 65+++

---

### Post by kbigdelysh on 2011-10-31
Since I updated my ubuntu to 11.1, I have had 2 occurrences of freezing. It is not actually a complete freeze however my mouse pointer and other things freezes for 30 sec and then I can move my mouse for 10 sec and again it freezes for about 30 secs. finally, I have to restart my computer(with restart button, to be able to work normally again).

I did not have this problem before upgrading to version 11.1.


My computer specifications:
OS: Ubuntu(obviously) - 64-bit
Memory : 15.7 GiB
Processor : Intel® Core&#8482; i7-2600K CPU @ 3.40GHz × 8
Disk: 2.0 TB

---

