---
title: "8.10 messed up my system  =["
date: 2008-11-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by WBL on 2008-11-12
Grrr...this is so annoying.  8.04 was the best OS ever, and now 8.10 is giving me two serious problems.

1.  I used to have icons on my Gnome panel for Pidgin and Rhythmbox.  The Pidgin icon showed me when somebody messaged me.  I could point my mouse at the Rhythmbox icon and it would tell what song is playing.  Now both icons are GONE!  :confused:  

I tried "Add to Panel" but nothing seems to match any of those icons.  Does anybody know how to get them back?

2.  Wireless internet only works at home now.  It does not work at my girlfriend's house, school, Starbucks, etc...

It looks like it recognizes a wireless network, but I can't figure out how to connect to it!  Does anyone know how to connect to wireless networks in 8.10??

Thanks in advance.  I want my near-perfect OS back...

-WBL

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-11-12
When you are trying to add to the gnome panel did you try the Notification Area tool?

---

### Post by WBL on 2008-11-12
> **tuxxy said:**
> When you are trying to add to the gnome panel did you try the Notification Area tool?

Thank you so much...that worked!  :)

Now if I could only get the wireless internet to work while not at home...

-WBL

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-11-12
If the wirless will **only** work at home maybe you have the WPA2/WEP key stored as default and just need to enter the new one or disable that as default maybe, try looking in your network manager

---

### Post by WBL on 2008-11-12
> **tuxxy said:**
> If the wirless will **only** work at home maybe you have the WPA2/WEP key stored as default and just need to enter the new one or disable that as default maybe, try looking in your network manager

Nope, not set as default.

I will let you guys know more about the wireless internet tomorrow when I go back to school (I had to cancel classes today because I was sick).

Ubuntu is now doing an update which will maybe (hopefully) fix it...

-WBL

---

### Post by WBL on 2008-11-13
Oh, the wireless internet works now!  Strange...

-ntiaga

---

