---
title: "13.10 graphics on boot"
date: 2013-11-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by adduds on 2013-11-29
Hey Ubuntu World,

Recently updated from 13.04 to 13.10 and since when I boot up I get nothing but a black screen with a curser on it. The curser floats around but I have no visual desktop just black. What can I do to reset all my graphics? 

Please help!

---

### Post by palmgrower on 2013-11-30
Your video card may need a proprietary driver to function correctly. Various options: remove video card and use built-in graphics, replace video card, or run minimal ubuntu. I used the last option. Search MinimalCD. Installation is non-graphic based. And you can install the proprietary driver afterward.

By the way, what graphic card do you have?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-11-30
When you boot and get to the list of kernels, select the kernel you want to boot and hit 'e' to edit.

Look for the line that ends in 'quiet splash' or 'quiet' or 'splash';
To the end of that line, after a space, type 'nomodset'.

Ctl+x to save and continue with boot as normal. Did that get you to a desktop?

@palmgrower: the first option is to try and fix the OPs original problem. They already have a working install and a functioning graphics card; the issue is that the upgrade has broken the graphics. Let's try and fix that before attempting any more radical solutions (like new cards or reinstallations). ;)

---

### Post by adduds on 2013-11-30
Thanks for your replies nomodset did not get me back. Still a black screen pop up that says error occurred and cancel out of that and just has black screen with X cursor that moves around fine.

Make: Acer 
Model: Aspire 5820TG 
Proc: i5460M 
Video Card: ATI Mobility Radeon HD5650 video card

I can CTRL+ALT+F2 do we need any specs and commands in there?

Thanks again for the assistance!

> **Bucky Ball said:**
> When you boot and get to the list of kernels, select the kernel you want to boot and hit 'e' to edit.

Look for the line that ends in 'quiet splash' or 'quiet' or 'splash';
To the end of that line, after a space, type 'nomodset'.

Ctl+x to save and continue with boot as normal. Did that get you to a desktop?

@palmgrower: the first option is to try and fix the OPs original problem. They already have a working install and a functioning graphics card; the issue is that the upgrade has broken the graphics. Let's try and fix that before attempting any more radical solutions (like new cards or reinstallations). ;)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-11-30
The black X cursor could be an indication that the loading process has dropped back to failsafeX mode. You could try at the Grub boot menu to select Advance Options for Ubuntu and then select Recovery mode. And at the recovery menu select resume. That may load to a desktop. It will also be a fallback video mode but one you can work with. In System Settings>Software and Updates>Additional drivers tab you can activate a video driver. 

Something else. At that blackscreen can you right click the desktop? Do you get a menu? If so select Change Desktop Background and that should load System Settings. From there you can get to Additional Drivers with the information given.

Regards.

---

### Post by adduds on 2013-12-01
Thanks again for the prompt reply, my appologies for not returning sooner.

I booted into recover via 3 different Kernals I have in the option list. Still the same result as before which I've never experienced I've always been able to failsafeX. No desktop, no right click, and no menu just black with a X cursor :(:(

> **grahammechanical said:**
> The black X cursor could be an indication that the loading process has dropped back to failsafeX mode. You could try at the Grub boot menu to select Advance Options for Ubuntu and then select Recovery mode. And at the recovery menu select resume. That may load to a desktop. It will also be a fallback video mode but one you can work with. In System Settings>Software and Updates>Additional drivers tab you can activate a video driver. 

Something else. At that blackscreen can you right click the desktop? Do you get a menu? If so select Change Desktop Background and that should load System Settings. From there you can get to Additional Drivers with the information given.

Regards.

---

### Post by adduds on 2013-12-07
Bump

---

### Post by pme 72 on 2013-12-08
If you can get to a terminal you can reset the graphics to the default opensource Radeon driver with the instructions here:

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Saucy_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Saucy_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx)

---

### Post by adduds on 2013-12-08
Thanks pme 72 tried that didn't work I'm at a loss here I've never had this much trouble with Ubuntu before :(((

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-12-08
Does recovery mode to the menu of choices, boot, repair terminal with Internet etc?

Did you try right click on blank screen? I had that once and got the change backgound system screen and was able to get into system menu  and then choose to install video drivers with absolutely nothing else working on screen. Reboot then worked.

---

### Post by adduds on 2013-12-22
Yes tried right clicking black screen nothing works still :(:( I'm starting to think I have to format

---

### Post by adduds on 2013-12-25
Right clicking doesn't work :( :(

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-12-25
Does removing quiet splash show boot process?
And does it quit near an error. It almost always stops at battery even if you do not have a battery, but it is the errors before that, that would be the real issue.

---

### Post by adduds on 2014-01-01
How do you remove quiet splash?

There are no errors after i select Ubuntu in grub

What battery like the symbol? or during the boot process for battery?

> **oldfred said:**
> Does removing quiet splash show boot process?
And does it quit near an error. It almost always stops at battery even if you do not have a battery, but it is the errors before that, that would be the real issue.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-01-01
When you add nomodeset, if you remove quiet splash the boot process is shown loading all the drivers. Sometimes that tells something. 

Shows grub screen about 1/3 way done on editing grub boot stanza. Use e on grub menu.
 How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 - both BIOS liveCD & grub first boot ( also UEFI with grub) 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)

---

