---
title: "problems with ASDL"
date: 2009-02-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-02-26
Hi, I'm trying to connect to asdl using a wired connection and although my computer recognises it (calls it eth2) it won't actually connect.  I'm using Isben and previously had no problems.  What am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by halovivek on 2009-02-26
Could you post more details about your computer configuration?

---

### Post by orethrius on 2009-02-26
What are the contents of netconf.log on your desktop after running this (hold Alt and hit F2 to bring up a Run prompt, then just copy-paste this in with the usual Ctrl-C, Ctrl-V)?

```
cat /etc/lsb-release > ~/Desktop/netconf.log; echo >> ~/Desktop/netconf.log; lspci >> ~/Desktop/netconf.log; echo >> ~/Desktop/netconf.log; ifconfig >> ~/Desktop/netconf.log
```

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-02-26
yes, certainly, but I'm not sure what details you need.  it's a usb connection to a beetel 220BX1 asdl modem.

---

### Post by doug1212 on 2009-02-26
Hi,
Has this modem got an Ethernet connection? if so use it instead of the USB and it should work OK. USB requires special drivers.
Doug.

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-02-27
Thanks, but I've tried it with both the ethernet and usb connections and I have the same problem.  It tries to connect and then when it gets to the IP configuration stage it stops.  I tried putting in all the settings manually, but when I did that it didn't even try to connect.

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-03-15
Hi,

I'm still struggling to connect, even after changing from Kde4 to Gnome.  Here's the output:

sarah@sarah:~$ ifconfig
eth0 Link encap:Ethernet HWaddr 00:02:3f:0b:1d:88
UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST MTU:1500 Metric:1
RX packets:36 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets:5 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
RX bytes:2160 (2.1 KB) TX bytes:1710 (1.7 KB)
Interrupt:21 Base address:0xc000
irda0 Link encap:IrLAP HWaddr fa:31:44:b7
UP RUNNING NOARP MTU:2048 Metric:1
RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets:19404 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen:8
RX bytes:0 (0.0 B) TX bytes:291060 (291.0 KB)
lo Link encap:Local Loopback
inet addr:127.0.0.1 Mask:255.0.0.0
UP LOOPBACK RUNNING MTU:16436 Metric:1
RX packets:62 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets:62 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
RX bytes:3804 (3.8 KB) TX bytes:3804 (3.8 KB)
sarah@sarah:~$ tail /var/log/messages
Mar 15 19:32:05 sarah kernel: [ 3167.941282] sdb: sdb1
Mar 15 19:43:55 sarah kernel: [ 3877.735026] usb 13:
USB disconnect, address 5
Mar 15 19:51:17 sarah syslogd 1.5.0#2ubuntu6: restart.
Mar 15 20:19:45 sarah MARK
Mar
15 20:39:45 sarah MARK
Mar
15 20:43:34 sarah kernel: [ 7456.280048] usb 31:
new full speed USB device using uhci_hcd
and address 3
Mar 15 20:43:34 sarah kernel: [ 7456.477440] usb 31:
configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
Mar 15 20:43:35 sarah kernel: [ 7457.272768] Bluetooth: Generic Bluetooth USB driver ver 0.3
Mar 15 20:43:35 sarah kernel: [ 7457.273862] usbcore: registered new interface driver btusb
Mar 15 20:57:40 sarah kernel: [ 8302.899775] eth0: link up, 100Mbps, fullduplex,
lpa 0x45E1
sarah@sarah:~$ ping 192.168.1.1
connect: Network is unreachable
sarah@sarah:~$ ifconfig eth0 up
SIOCSIFFLAGS: Permission denied
sarah@sarah:~$ sudo ifconfig eth0 up
[sudo] password for sarah:
sarah@sarah:~$ ifconfig
eth0 Link encap:Ethernet HWaddr 00:02:3f:0b:1d:88
UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST MTU:1500 Metric:1
RX packets:36 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets:5 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
RX bytes:2160 (2.1 KB) TX bytes:1710 (1.7 KB)
Interrupt:21 Base address:0xc000
irda0 Link encap:IrLAP HWaddr fa:31:44:b7
UP RUNNING NOARP MTU:2048 Metric:1
RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets:19516 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen:8
RX bytes:0 (0.0 B) TX bytes:292740 (292.7 KB)
lo Link encap:Local Loopback
inet addr:127.0.0.1 Mask:255.0.0.0
UP LOOPBACK RUNNING MTU:16436 Metric:1
RX packets:62 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets:62 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
RX bytes:3804 (3.8 KB) TX bytes:3804 (3.8 KB)
sarah@sarah:~$ sudo etc/init.d/networking restart
sudo: etc/init.d/networking: command not found
sarah@sarah:~$ cat /etc/hosts
127.0.0.1 localhost
127.0.1.1 sarah
# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1 ip6localhost
ip6loopback
fe00::0 ip6localnet
ff00::0 ip6mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6allnodes
ff02::2 ip6allrouters
ff02::3 ip6allhosts
sarah@sarah:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
sarah@sarah:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
sarah@sarah:~$

Any ideas?
Many thanks.

---

### Post by orethrius on 2009-03-16
I *really* hate to tell you this, but the switch from KDE wasn't technically necessary if what I think is happening is what's happening.  Try this (hold Alt and hit F2) and see what happens:

```
xterm -e 'gksudo dhclient eth0'
```

It should pop up a brief terminal, ask for the root password to modify network settings, then obtain an IP over DHCP.  You can verify this by opening a terminal and typing:

```
ping -c1 google.com
```

The -c1 is important here.

Additionally, /etc/network/interfaces should probably have an auto-config line for your Ethernet connection.

```
gksudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
```

Then add a newline at the bottom, and type in **auto eth0** - close and save, and the rest should handle itself; however, there may be more work to do if those settings don't persist.

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-03-17
Hi,

Thank you so much for the help.  It's sort of worked, but I still can't connect.  I did the xterm bit, and as you said it brought up a brief terminal.  Then I tried 'ping -c1 google.com' and got 'ping: unknown host google.com'.  I added the auto eth0 to the /etc/network/interfaces and tried to connect again, but it's still saying unknown host.

Any more ideas?

Thank you.

---

### Post by orethrius on 2009-03-17
> **sarel29 said:**
> Hi,

Thank you so much for the help.  It's sort of worked, but I still can't connect.  I did the xterm bit, and as you said it brought up a brief terminal.  Then I tried 'ping -c1 google.com' and got 'ping: unknown host google.com'.  I added the auto eth0 to the /etc/network/interfaces and tried to connect again, but it's still saying unknown host.

Any more ideas?

Thank you.
Sorry, I missed the **eth2** bit in the first post.  Try doing what I just suggested, but switch all the **eth0** bits to say **eth2** if that's where the connection was recognized.  Something's still off, but I lack the relevant experience to tell you exactly how to fix the device to eth0 instead of eth2.

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-03-18
I'm afraid it's still not working.  After pressing Alt F2, when it brings up the brief terminal I can see it says error about something, but it disappears too quickly for me to read it.

---

### Post by sim-value on 2009-03-18
Check run in terminal ...

---

### Post by aquavitae on 2009-03-19
> **sim-value said:**
> Check run in terminal ...i.e. ```
sudo dhclient eth0
```

---

### Post by orethrius on 2009-03-20
> **sarel29 said:**
> I'm afraid it's still not working.  After pressing Alt F2, when it brings up the brief terminal I can see it says error about something, but it disappears too quickly for me to read it.
Okay, so it errors out.  You should be able to go to Applications > Accessories > Terminal, type in
```
sudo dhclient eth2
```
per aquavitae, then select the result and press Ctrl+Shift+C to copy that text and paste it back here in
.[code] tags.  It can't hurt to try **eth0** and **eth1**, either.

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-03-21
Hi, thanks for the reply.  This is the output from eth2, eth1 and eth0.

sarah@sarah:~$ sudo dhclient eth2
[sudo] password for sarah:
There is already a pid file /var/run/dhclient.pid with pid 5703
killed old client process, removed PID file
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.1.1
Copyright 20042008
Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit [http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/](http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/)
SIOCSIFADDR: No such device
eth2: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device
eth2: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device
Bind socket to interface: No such device
sarah@sarah:~$ sudo dhclient eth1
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.1.1
Copyright 20042008
Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit [http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/](http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/)
SIOCSIFADDR: No such device
eth1: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device
eth1: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device
Bind socket to interface: No such device
sarah@sarah:~$ sudo dhclient eth0
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.1.1
Copyright 20042008
Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit [http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/](http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/)
Listening on LPF/eth0/00:02:3f:0b:1d:88
Sending on LPF/eth0/00:02:3f:0b:1d:88
Sending on Socket/fallback
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 4
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 11
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 11
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 9
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 20
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 6
No DHCPOFFERS received.
No working leases in persistent database sleeping.
sarah@sarah:~$

It seems to be trying to connect on eth0, not eth2 but I'm not sure what to do now.

Thanks.

---

### Post by orethrius on 2009-03-23
Okay, so we're past the system and into your modem or router now.  I don't need any of your login information for that, but if you can get the model number off of it (usually two or three letters, followed by a few digits, as in DI-524), I can track down a manual to set up access for your system.  If you're more comfortable providing those numbers via PM - so as to avoid possibly disclosing serial numbers or anything similar - please feel free to do so. :-D

The modem (or router) isn't responding to DHCPDISCOVER.  This means that either DHCP is not enabled on that component, or the LAN settings that would normally allow your system to connect are not configured correctly.  Do you, by any chance, know whether your modem (or router) has MAC filtering enabled?

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-03-23
Thank you.

It's a Beetel 220BXI (Or that may be BX1) ADSL2+ Modem.  Sorry, I have no idea what Mac filtering is, but it may be worth mentioning here that it's my flatmate's modem and he has no problem connecting through Windows Vista.

Is that the information you need?  Is it a compatibility problem?

Many thanks.

---

### Post by orethrius on 2009-03-23
Yeah, I headed over to PortForward.com, and that modem doesn't appear to support DHCP, which is likely a large part of the problem here.  The next time your flatmate is around, see if he'll let you - or would himself be willing to - run steps 1 through 4 from [this page](http://portforward.com/networking/static-vista.htm) to get some key setup information.

Now, with that information in hand, you'll need to set a static IP address on your system.

1.  Go to System > Administration > Network.
2.  Click "Unlock", enter your root password, and click "OK".
3.  Click "Wired connection (eth0)", then click "Properties".
4.  Click the dropdown next to "Configuration" and select "Static IP address".
5.  For the IP address, enter some number in the form of 192.168.x.y, where x is that same number from the "default gateway" field of the Vista setup, and y is a number between 1 and 254 (that isn't used by the modem or the Vista system).
6.  The subnet mask is 255.255.255.0, and the default gateway is the same as the Vista default gateway (likely 192.168.0.1 or 192.168.1.1).
7.  Click "OK".
8.  Make sure the checkbox left of "Wired connection (eth0)" is checked.  There will be a short delay while the system configures the interface.
9.  Click "Close" and that should do it.

Of course, you can also do this from the command line with:
```
sudo ifconfig eth0 <IP_ADDRESS_HERE>
```

The only real difference is that the GUI method is persistent (you shouldn't have to do it each time you boot).  If any of this doesn't work, please post where it falls apart.

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-03-24
Thank you.  It seems to have worked in part.  The problem is that I don't appear to have a place called "Network" to change the settings.  Under Administration, there's something called network tools, but I have no root options there.  So, I used the command line you gave me, and then tried
sudo ifconfig eth0
It have the IP address I'd just put in, but when I tried to ping google it still said "unknown host".
Thanks for all your support so far.  I'm really hoping you'll have another amazing solution for me!

---

### Post by orethrius on 2009-03-24
Whoops, sorry, the Network tool doesn't come with production Ibex.  I believe
```
sudo apt-get install gnome-network-admin
```
would ordinarily pull the Network tool, but the issue here is that you need a functional network to pull a networking tool (oy!)

I'm not sure offhand how to configure static IPs on the Beetel, and PortForward didn't really offer much help beyond "set a static IP address".  

Perhaps starting with
```
sudo ifconfig eth0 down; sudo ifconfig eth0 192.168.x.y; sudo ifconfig eth0 up;
``` (where the second bit is the same as before, x is the third digit set from the router and y is some number between 1 and 254 not used by the Vista system or router) would get a starting interface up, then running the first command above will pull in the Network tool.

---

### Post by aquavitae on 2009-03-27
To install gnome-network-admin, you could use the "download script" tool in synaptic.  Mark packages to install as ususl, then select the download script option form the menu.  It will save a text file containing commands something like ```
wget -c http://...
```
Copy the file to a computer with a connection and copy/paste the [http://.](http://.).. from each line into a web browser.  It will download the files, whcih you should save to the same location as the test file.  Copy the whole lot back to your computer, making sure that all downloaded files and the origial text file are in the same folder.  In synaptic, there is a menu option (can't remember exactly what) just below the download script option which will let you apply the packages you've downloaded.

Alternatively, you could go to packages.ubuntu.com and search for gnome-network-admin.  I think all the dependencies should already be installed, but there might be one or two you'll also need to download.

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-04-06
Hi,

Finally after more than a week my phone line's back up and running so I'm trying to connect again.  I managed to download the Network package, and followed the instructions for setting up a static IP address.  The computer did everything it was supposed to but still will not connect to the internet.  When I try "ping -c1 google.com" I still get "unknown host".  

Is it basically just a compatibility problem with the modem?  My computer connects without a problem to the wired connection at work, so I'm guessing it just doesnt like the modem at home.  Is there anything to be done?

Thanks.

---

### Post by aquavitae on 2009-04-06
What output do you get from "ifconfig"?

---

### Post by orethrius on 2009-04-06
I dredged up [this document](http://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/hacking-beetel-220x-adsl-router-broadcom-bcm6338.html) (cyberciti.biz).  I find it unfortunate that many people associate "configuration" with "hacking" given the modern media's take on "evil hackers", but at least it's something.

EDIT: This doesn't help with the initial connection phase, but it's something to check from a connected system.

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-04-07
This is the output from ifconfig:

```
sarah@sarah:~$ ifconfig 
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:02:3f:0b:1d:88  
          inet6 addr: fe80::202:3fff:fe0b:1d88/64 Scope:Link 
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1 
          RX packets:3 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0 
          TX packets:26 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:180 (180.0 B)  TX bytes:4796 (4.7 KB) 
          Interrupt:21 Base address:0xc000 

irda0     Link encap:IrLAP  HWaddr de:7a:36:44  
          UP RUNNING NOARP  MTU:2048  Metric:1 
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0 
          TX packets:932 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:8 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:26999 (26.9 KB) 
          Interrupt:3 Base address:0x6f8 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0 
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host 
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1 
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0 
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B) 
```

I'll give the cyberciti a try when I get home from work...

Many thanks.

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-04-08
It's working!  It suddenly occured to me that when I connect at work I need to restart after setting it back to Roaming Enabled, so I set up the static IP and restarted and it connected.  There seems to still be a slight problem though and I'm not sure whether I should put it in a new thread. I could get onto Skype easily, but when I tried to open google and yahoo with Mozilla, it brought up error messages.  So I tried pinging google.com - it thought about it for quite a while and then brought up "unknown host".  Is this just a problem with the mozilla settings?  

Thank you so so so much for getting my computer to speak the same language as the modem!

---

### Post by aquavitae on 2009-04-08
Could be a name server issue. Does this work: ```
ping 209.85.227.104
``` This should ping google, bypassing the name lookup.  If it does work, then your DNS client has a problem.  Try running ```
dhclient
``` and post the output.

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-04-09
Yes, pinging that number works fine.  I did it then ran dhclient and this was the output:

```
sarah@sarah:~$ ping 209.85.227.104 
PING 209.85.227.104 (209.85.227.104) 56(84) bytes of data. 
64 bytes from 209.85.227.104: icmp_seq=1 ttl=232 time=437 ms 
64 bytes from 209.85.227.104: icmp_seq=2 ttl=232 time=451 ms 
64 bytes from 209.85.227.104: icmp_seq=3 ttl=232 time=435 ms 
64 bytes from 209.85.227.104: icmp_seq=4 ttl=232 time=439 ms 
64 bytes from 209.85.227.104: icmp_seq=5 ttl=232 time=449 ms 
64 bytes from 209.85.227.104: icmp_seq=6 ttl=232 time=439 ms 
64 bytes from 209.85.227.104: icmp_seq=7 ttl=232 time=440 ms 
64 bytes from 209.85.227.104: icmp_seq=8 ttl=232 time=449 ms 
64 bytes from 209.85.227.104: icmp_seq=9 ttl=232 time=449 ms 
64 bytes from 209.85.227.104: icmp_seq=10 ttl=232 time=439 ms 
64 bytes from 209.85.227.104: icmp_seq=11 ttl=232 time=432 ms 
64 bytes from 209.85.227.104: icmp_seq=12 ttl=232 time=463 ms 
^C 
--- 209.85.227.104 ping statistics --- 
12 packets transmitted, 12 received, 0% packet loss, time 11044ms 
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 432.734/443.926/463.564/8.467 ms 
sarah@sarah:~$ dhclient 
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.1.1 
Copyright 2004-2008 Internet Systems Consortium. 
All rights reserved. 
For info, please visit http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/ 

can't create /var/lib/dhcp3/dhclient.leases: Permission denied 
SIOCSIFADDR: Permission denied 
SIOCSIFFLAGS: Permission denied 
SIOCSIFFLAGS: Permission denied 
SIOCSIFADDR: Permission denied 
SIOCSIFFLAGS: Permission denied 
SIOCSIFFLAGS: Permission denied 
Open a socket for LPF: Operation not permitted 
sarah@sarah:~$ 
```

Thank you.

---

### Post by aquavitae on 2009-04-09
Sorry: ```
sudo dhclient
```

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-04-09
Ok, I did that, but I thought the point of setting up a static IP address was that the modem didn't support DCHP?

```
sarah@sarah:~$ sudo dhclient 
[sudo] password for sarah: 
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.1.1 
Copyright 2004-2008 Internet Systems Consortium. 
All rights reserved. 
For info, please visit http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/ 

Listening on LPF/pan0/9a:43:bf:eb:b6:31 
Sending on   LPF/pan0/9a:43:bf:eb:b6:31 
Listening on LPF/eth0/00:02:3f:0b:1d:88 
Sending on   LPF/eth0/00:02:3f:0b:1d:88 
Sending on   Socket/fallback 
DHCPDISCOVER on pan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3 
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 6 
DHCPDISCOVER on pan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3 
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 14 
DHCPDISCOVER on pan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3 
DHCPDISCOVER on pan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 6 
DHCPDISCOVER on pan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 15 
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 7 
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 18 
DHCPDISCOVER on pan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 10 
DHCPDISCOVER on pan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 16 
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 11 
DHCPDISCOVER on pan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 5 
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 5 
No DHCPOFFERS received. 
No working leases in persistent database - sleeping. 
sarah@sarah:~$ 
```

---

### Post by aquavitae on 2009-04-09
Yes, but I'd hoped that it would query the ISP for the nameserver, not the modem.  Who is your ISP? It might be possible to google it for the name server ip.

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-04-09
If I'm correct in thinking that ISP means Internet Service Provider then it's Orange (Mauritius) who are affiliated to Emtel (Mauritius Telecom),

Thanks.

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-04-09
If I'm correct in thinking that ISP means Internet Service Provider then it's Orange (Mauritius) who are affiliated to Emtel (Mauritius Telecom),

Thanks.

---

### Post by aquavitae on 2009-04-09
Ok, a bit of research and I've found this: If you're in Mauritius, then you're probably with Mauritius Telecom.  The nameservers for them are 202.123.1.6 and 202.123.1.11, so backup and edit /etc/resolv.conf and add them:
```
sudo cp /etc/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf.backup
sudo gedit /etc/resolv.conf
```
Then add the following lines (or change them if they alredy exist)
```

nameserver 202.123.1.6
nameserver 202.123.1.11

```
If this works, but it causes problems with internet elsewhere, then restore the backup:
```
sudo mv /etc/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf.MT
sudo cp /etc/resolv.conf.backup /etc/resolv.conf

```
This will leave you with two files (resolve.conf.MT - Mauritius Telecom and resolv.conf.backup - default) which you can swap as necessary.  If it all works there might be a way that you don't need to manually change them every time.

---

### Post by aquavitae on 2009-04-09
Cross-post :), but try it anyway.

---

### Post by aquavitae on 2009-04-09
I've just had a look for orange, so if it doesn't work then try these two ips instead:
202.123.2.6
202.123.2.11

---

### Post by sarel29 on 2009-04-10
Thank you!  It works and I'm now fully connected!

---

