---
title: "11.10 performance has worsened since installation"
date: 2011-12-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jermza on 2011-12-08
Installed 11.10 about 2 weeks ago.
Haven't installed much other than a few things here and there, like Gimp. Keep it all pretty stock standard.

I've been doing my regular software updates too.

However, shutting down seems to take remarkably longer than 2 weeks ago. Logging out too. 

Once I've clicked "Shut Down", everything on the screen disappears, except for the background and maybe the window open in front of me; say, Thunderbird. The window loses all its styling and top window bar (with the close button etc), and it looks really ugly while it sits and waits for Ubuntu to shut down. Which takes anything between 10 and 20 seconds.

I certainly don't recall this behaviour from 2 weeks ago.

Does this happen with you? Why is happening and is it normal behaviour?

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2011-12-08
Did you try when no programs are open? Ending programs may increase shutdown time. When you say performance has decreased do you mean just shutdown or also in other areas?

---

### Post by jermza on 2011-12-08
I mean during shut-down only. Performance seems fine otherwise.

I've logged out and then logged back in and opened nothing. Then logged out and noticed a lengthy amount of time before Ubuntu logs out.

What is it doing that requires so much time? And why now, as opposed to 2 weeks ago?

---

### Post by jermza on 2011-12-09
I MIGHT have found the problem, but I'm not technical enough to confirm it.

I had Tomboy added as a Startup App. I quit it before shutting down and removed it from Startup Apps and Ubuntu's shutdown down seems to have sped up remarkably.

Is anybody else able to replicate this?

---

