---
title: "17.04 Laptop Brightness Setting Changing"
date: 2017-10-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by electrosteam on 2017-10-02
My Dell Inspiron 5150 laptop has BIOS A33 copyright Dell 2004, Phoenix 1988, with 2GB RAM and 1.9 GHz processor.

I have tried adjusting the brightness in the bios several times, exit with save, then boot Lubuntu, get dull screen, shutdown and check bios to find brightness set down to  low level.

At least once, I adjusted the BIOS, exit with save, then paused the reboot, checked the brightness as Ok, then exit with Escape, then reboot Lubuntu with high brightness.
But this sequence is not repeatable.

The desktop does not seem to provide a brightness setting.

Can I adjust brightness using Terminal commands ?

John

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2017-10-02
Try xbacklight.

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2017-10-03
Thanks Herman,
checked the man page, entered 'xbacklight -get', and received 'No outputs have backlight property' as the response.
Not much luck there.
Continuing the search.

Note, the standard increase/reduce brightness laptop buttons do work, so I have a work-around.

John

---

### Post by gurdenite on 2017-10-05
I believe Lubuntu uses the Xfce power manager to control brightness settings.

Press Alt+F2 then run: xfce4-power-manager-settings

There are brightness settings under the Display tab, if you set the Brightness reduction "Reduce after" settings to "Never" the screen should stay bright all the time.

Make sure the "Handle display power management" box is ticked.

Hopefully that will help.

---

### Post by sonnyke on 2017-10-11
[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Consolas]You need to install xdotool and then you will be able to change the brightness from command line.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

