---
title: "12.04 has purple login screen a few seconds before switching to my login background"
date: 2012-05-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by haVok1701 on 2012-05-05
I was having trouble searching for answers for this, maybe it was just my wording in google.  I finally managed to get grub and the loading screen a nice black, but right before the login screen it's that god awful purple a few second before it switches to my background, This must have had to be discussed somewhere, but I assume my searches my be to vague.

---

### Post by Baldrick_NZ on 2012-05-05
> **haVok1701 said:**
> I was having trouble searching for answers for this, maybe it was just my wording in google.  I finally managed to get grub and the loading screen a nice black, but right before the login screen it's that god awful purple a few second before it switches to my background, This must have had to be discussed somewhere, but I assume my searches my be to vague.

It's the default. Not sure if it can be changed, but I'm sure someone more knowledgeable than me will confirm this.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-05-05
Here is the issue as I see it. Perhaps you can suggest a solution.

Grub hands control to Plymouth which hands control to LightDM which does not know the user background settings because it has not yet fully activated. So, it loads its default background image and it this point LightDM becomes aware that the default user has set a static desktop background wallpaper. So it now has to switch background images.

If we select the background slide show then LightDM uses its default background image. So, it is logical that LightDM first load its default image before it finds out what background the default user has selected. Otherwise we may end up without any log in background image.

And remember, different users can select different wallpapers which have to become the log in background image when that user is the default user.

I think that the whole process is doing a very difficult job in a very smart way.

I am disappointed at the way we become more critical and demanding the better Ubuntu gets. I do not forget that I could pay a lot of money for an OS and I would be stuck with what I had purchased.

Ubuntu is a gift and I value all the work done by all those who develop Ubuntu. Many of those people are volunteers. I am thankful for what I have been given.

Regards.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-05-05
> **haVok1701 said:**
> I was having trouble searching for answers for this, maybe it was just my wording in google.  I finally managed to get grub and the loading screen a nice black, but right before the login screen it's that god awful purple a few second before it switches to my background, This must have had to be discussed somewhere, but I assume my searches my be to vague.

When the greeter using a custom background first landed over the winter it worked pretty much flawlessly. It then broke for many users, (hardware based) for quite some time. As part of the fix the momentary display of a hardcoded color resulted (#2C001E

This color can be changed thru gsettings but not thru your own user  gsettings (whether you should be able to is a question

bug that describes - 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-greeter/+bug/969059](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-greeter/+bug/969059)

Bug that keep getting invalidated on a user not being able to edit the greeter settings thru gsetting or dconf-editor
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-greeter/+bug/981335](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-greeter/+bug/981335)

New bug that's came from above
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/d-conf/+bug/992788](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/d-conf/+bug/992788)

There are 2 ways to currently edit the greeter options, both verge on the ridiculous for regular users.
In your case, if I've understood correctly, you may be happier with #000000 as the hard-coded color, if so one way to address
```
sudo gedit /usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/50_unity-greeter.gschema.override

```

Put this in the new file, save
```
[com.canonical.unity-greeter]
background-color = "#000000"
```

(I use this, adding the option to turn off the drum sound

```
[com.canonical.unity-greeter]
play-ready-sound = false
background-color = "#000000"
```

After saving run this
```
sudo glib-compile-schemas /usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/
```

---

### Post by haVok1701 on 2012-05-05
Thanks for all the help worked just fine

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-05-05
The option to use #000000 still didn't take care of that 1/2 sec or so flash of the default Background (black > 1/2 sec warty-final > my custom Background

So to remove that here I moved /usr/share/backgrounds/warty-final-ubuntu.png to a bak & replaced it with a black Background image named warty-final-ubuntu.png (screen

(- The real warty-final-ubuntu.png is really a .jpg, but I did use an actual .png for the replacement, didn't seem to matter

So now it's black all the way to grid, then fade-in to my Background

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-05-05
> **mc4man said:**
> 
So to remove that here I moved /usr/share/backgrounds/warty-final-ubuntu.png to a bak & replaced it with a black Background image named warty-final-ubuntu.png (screen

(- The real warty-final-ubuntu.png is really a .jpg, but I did use an actual .png for the replacement, didn't seem to matter

So now it's black all the way to grid, then fade-in to my BackgroundThanks. That's exactly what I was looking for. You can replace it with whatever background you want.

---

### Post by lumbricus on 2012-05-24
You can add also an entry like:

```
background = '/usr/share/backgrounds/mywallpaper.jpg'
```

Then this image is used as default entry (before if it is changed to the users background image).

This is what the [Ubuntu Tweak]("http://ubuntu-tweak.com/") Tool does. But it does not add the part with "background-color", so the solid color remains purple and before the picture loads you see a purple color for less than one second.

 Note that all image files used before the login can not be placed in  your home directory and need full read permissions (run chmod a+r  myfile.jpg). Otherwise it won't work.

---

### Post by mali37 on 2012-11-05
Hello,

wanted to add the color code, too but:
my schemas folder does not have the 
50_unity-greeter.gschema.override
file!
There are only nine "10_*****gschema.override" files
and some XML files that contain "unity" in their name.
Adn around 50-100 (?) other XML files
Which file should I use instead now?
You are not talking about an XML-file to change, do you?

I am using the default schemes on Ubuntu 12.0.4


***


**Edit:**
Found this file: "com.canonical.unity-greeter.gschema.xml"
and replaced the purple hexa colour in line 10 with
<default>'#000000'</default>

After compiling with
sudo glib-compile-schemas /usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/
it works now.

GREAT!



I also used a black /usr/share/backgrounds/warty-final-ubuntu.png.


**[SOLVED FOR ME]**

---

### Post by DiFS on 2012-11-15
Thank you mali37!!!

It's working very nice in the Ubuntu 12.10.

Tip:
1. Put the the black color (<default>'#000000'</default>) in the com.canonical.unity-greeter.gschema.xml file.
2. sudo glib-compile-schemas /usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/
3. Change the file /usr/share/backgrounds/warty-final-ubuntu.png for a gray scale and dark version of your wallpaper.

Result: Before the login, you can see the colors and the light growing in the screen :P

---

### Post by mali37 on 2012-12-06
Today I got an update for the unity-greeter and we have to do some of the procedure again, I guess, just if you wonder when it goes purple again.

---

### Post by mali37 on 2013-02-01
EDIT (for copy & paste):
sudo gedit /usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/com.canonical.unity-greeter.gschema.xml

---

### Post by mali37 on 2013-02-01
I need help!

There was an update for Grub (1 Feb 2013) or so today and our methods of changing the colours here do not work anymore!

It is all purple now, from the start, the OS selection menu and then the UBUNTU logo background.
What can we do?

---

### Post by dominator1 on 2013-02-20
here's a solution that I have used. I am using a compiz cube with four different desktop pictures which means my desktop pictures are not controlled by system settings appearance.I then copy and pasted a png image to usr share backgrounds same pixels as default warty.
then i made a new entry copy paste in /usr/share/gnome-background-properties/precise-wallpapers.xml using same format as all backgrounds seen 
<wallpaper>
<name>Flocking</name>
<filename>/usr/share/backgrounds/Flocking_by_noombox.jpg</filename><options>zoom</options>
<pcolor>#000000</pcolor>
<scolor>#000000</scolor>
<shade_type>solid</shade_type>
</wallpaper>

Replacing name with a suitable name of my choice
replacing file name with the actual name of my wallpaper copied into backgrounds

then I edited the ubuntu- wallpapers.xml  /usr/sharegnome-background-properties/ubuntu-wallpapers.xml 
Replacing replacing "warty-final-ubuntu.png 
with the file name of my picture in /usr/share/background
I was then able to set my picture in settings appearance as my background and it also becomes my default login screen and compiz loads my user screen
 Only disadvantage is that in my current setup I have no desktop icons but only a folder click away all program icons are on left as default .  
Works well for me any picture I want at login becomes default entry for login.:D:D

---

### Post by mali37 on 2013-02-20
Oh, I forgot to post my solution, the "hard way":

With the help of the small programme "gtkorphan" (or maybe any other software manager) I kicked out all "Plymouth..." themes but the "Plymouth" entry staid;
there are about 5-10 themes like "Plymouth Ubuntu text", "Plymouth Ubuntu logo" etc.
 
Now I don't have any more logos for booting and shutdown but I see the scrolling text from the start procedure.
I can live with it - at least nothing is purple ;)

And: I think booting seems faster now...

---

### Post by aarons6 on 2013-02-20
this is how you fix it. 
if its the purple background from unity-greeter and not grub do this
in a terminal
sudo su  
xhost +SI:localuser:lightdm  
sudo su lightdm -s /bin/bash  
dconf-editor 

then go to com, conical, unity-greeter.
change background-color to #000000 (thats black)

now when you boot up, the screen will be black and it will fade to your background.


one thing to note, if you change the background picture in here, it wont change anymore when you change your background.

---

