---
title: "10.10 ubuntu dont work with Atom N450 ?"
date: 2010-10-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by KristinaK on 2010-10-02
does 10.10 ubuntu dont work with Atom N450 ?

---

### Post by colin.p on 2010-10-02
What are you talking about? Of course it does. I have a Dell Mini 1012 with an N450 CPU and it runs just fine. As a matter of fact, 10.04 works even better than the XP it came with.

Jeez,sorry, I really must read these posts better. 10.04 runs fine on a 450, I have not tried 10.10 yet, but I don't have any reason to believe it won't.

---

### Post by KristinaK on 2010-10-03
During the Maverick development cycle, support for the intel_idle driver was included in the Maverick kernel. The intent of intel_idle is to allow Linux to take better advantage of Intel hardware and make Linux more immune to ACPI BIOS bugs and shorcomings of the ACPI implementation itself. This unfortunately appears to have an adverse affect on Lenovo S10-3 systems (Intel Atom N450 processor) rendering them incapable of booting.

---

### Post by colin.p on 2010-10-04
I did read the bug report, and they say that the issue should be resolved by the release date. I will do my usual 2-3 month wait after the release date, before I do an update anyway.

---

### Post by KristinaK on 2010-10-08
where is that bug report? is it fixed now?

---

### Post by Jakiejake on 2010-10-08
> **KristinaK said:**
> does 10.10 ubuntu dont work with Atom N450 ?

I have a HP mini 210 and will be installing Ubuntu 10.10 Netbook (Unity) when it comes out in 2 days or so
I hope it works!

---

### Post by KristinaK on 2010-10-08
still 1 day to wait for, is yours atom 450?

---

### Post by nardusg on 2010-10-09
I am 10.10 on 1012. No issue. Must say I am very impressed by the netbook edition. Even considering to load it on my main laptop, the interface just rocks...

---

### Post by colin.p on 2010-10-09
> **KristinaK said:**
> where is that bug report? is it fixed now?


[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/634702](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/634702)

---

### Post by KristinaK on 2010-10-21
turning hyperthreading off reduce the performance 

so the answer is 10.10 ubuntu don't work with Atom N450 as it should

---

### Post by mcduck on 2010-10-21
> **KristinaK said:**
> turning hyperthreading off reduce the performance 

so the answer is 10.10 ubuntu don't work with Atom N450 as it should

hyperthereading doesn't make that much of a difference, and really nothing that you would notice on any task you'd do on a netbook.

Anyway, as mentioned on the bug report, adding "acpi=off"  or "intel_idle.max_cstate=0" to your boot options should get things working.

---

### Post by KristinaK on 2010-10-22
> **mcduck said:**
> hyperthereading doesn't make that much of a difference, and really nothing that you would notice on any task you'd do on a netbook.

Anyway, as mentioned on the bug report, adding "acpi=off"  or "intel_idle.max_cstate=0" to your boot options should get things working.

mcduck please provide data on your claims that hyperthereading doesn't make that much of a difference, and really nothing that you would notice on any task you'd do on a netbook.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2010-10-22
Hyperthreading only gives a performance benefit in a very specific situation, the moments when you are running a multi-threaded program and one of the program threads stops to wait for something. Most of the desktop tasks aren't multithreaded or CPU-intensive so hyperhreading makes no difference with them.

You probably don't do much video/audio encoding, 3D rendering, scientific computing or any other really CPU-intensive task that would use many threads. (if you do this kind of things on a netbook I must say I feel sorry for you, it must be horrible :))

If you use your netbook for any normal desktop task, like playing music and videos, browsing the web, basic photo management & editing, office tasks and so on you aren't doing anything CPU-intensive & multithreaded.

---

### Post by KristinaK on 2010-10-22
> **mcduck said:**
> Hyperthreading only gives a performance benefit in a very specific situation, the moments when you are running a multi-threaded program and one of the program threads stops to wait for something. Most of the desktop tasks aren't multithreaded or CPU-intensive so hyperhreading makes no difference with them.

You probably don't do much video/audio encoding, 3D rendering, scientific computing or any other really CPU-intensive task that would use many threads. (if you do this kind of things on a netbook I must say I feel sorry for you, it must be horrible :))

If you use your netbook for any normal desktop task, like playing music and videos, browsing the web, basic photo management & editing, office tasks and so on you aren't doing anything CPU-intensive & multithreaded.

I use netbook for any normal task, like playing music and videos, browsing the web, basic photo management & editing, office tasks. 

Please define CPU-intensive, also let me remind you do not provide any data, just personal opinion. 

Windows 7 support Atom N450 and multithreating fully so Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick Meerkat is just inferior operating system in netbook department!

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-10-22
> **KristinaK said:**
> mcduck please provide data on your claims that hyperthereading doesn't make that much of a difference, and really nothing that you would notice on any task you'd do on a netbook.

Not McDuck, but here you go- 

> Despite its new reincarnation, Hyper-Threading is still as controversial as in times of NetBurst. This technology yields zero performance gains according to our overall score (rounded), even though some tests demonstrate significant performance gains or drops. The reasons are lying on the surface: it's not easy to optimize software for virtual multiprocessing.

[http://ixbtlabs.com/articles3/cpu/ci7-turbo-ht-p1.html](http://ixbtlabs.com/articles3/cpu/ci7-turbo-ht-p1.html)

---

