---
title: "U 12.04 firefox does not connect to servers"
date: 2013-03-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anonysubscribe on 2013-03-12
u12.04 firefox does not open to any sites
comdo ice dragon [firefox fork] works in windows.
using a thinkpad x61 2008 model.
this old pc has vista and someone put on unlicensed windows
comodo geekbuddy put on 30 day windows
MS told me they would corrupt my disk if I did not upgrade by then!
older 60+ guy who can't learn new IT things now.
how do I get ubuntu  firefox to work?
other apps seem OK but without a browser I am toast

---

### Post by mellocode on 2013-03-13
Are you sure you're connected to the network? Are you using wireless?

---

### Post by anonysubscribe on 2013-03-13
wireless ok
network ok
same laptop lets me get fireofx [ice dragon] in windows, not in ubuntu v 12.04

---

### Post by solarghost on 2013-03-13
Do you have proxy settings configured on your Windows machine? Are you doing this from home or maybe the office?

---

### Post by tik on 2013-03-13
I have the very same problem since a few minutes ago.

Ubuntu 12.04 / wired internet connection

What is working:

I'm typing this on my notebook, so my router and the internet connection are just fine.

DNS resolving (nslookup) is working.

I can telnet to my router without any problem.

I can ftp to a server on the net without a problem

What is not working:

Pointing the browser (chromium / firefox) to any http address be it local (web config of my router) or on the net.

wget a html page form any host.


I did a system upgrade earlier this day but ubuntuupdates don't shows any package updates that could have caused this.


Any pointers what to look next into???

Thanks
-Tim

---

### Post by anonysubscribe on 2013-03-13
comodo ice dragon [=ffox]says 
use system proxies [none I think?]

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-03-13
I always try to be systematic with these things [Tim you appear to have done most of these steps so skip straight to the end]

1. is the interface up and does it have sensible looking IPv4 parameters e.g.

```
ifconfig -a
```

2. can you ping your gateway IP address?

```
ping -c4 192.168.1.1
```

[adjust the 192.168.1.1 numbers based on the subnet parameters reported in (1)]

3. can you ping an external host by IP? e.g. a google server such as

```
 ping -c4 74.125.226.41
```

4. can you ping an external host by name (i.e. is DNS name resolution working)?

```
ping -c4 google.com
```

5. is there a sensible default route / metric?

```
ip route list
```

6. Sometimes everything can look OK but pages still don't load - in that case it's sometimes a problem with packet fragmentation / MTU size - some tips to diagnose here --> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2071761&p=12302694#post12302694](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2071761&p=12302694#post12302694) or you can just go ahead and try reducing the MTU (via the nm-applet if you are using NetworkManager or with iwconfig otherwise) and seeing if it helps

---

### Post by anonysubscribe on 2013-03-13
No.
At home.

---

