---
title: "9.04 upgraded and lost my ati proprietary video driver"
date: 2009-04-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-20
after upgrading my 8.10 to 9.04, i lost my ati proprietary video driver, and now i currently have no drivers.  i tried installing one from here [http://linux.softpedia.com/progDownload/ATI-Radeon-Linux-Display-Drivers-Download-6719.html](http://linux.softpedia.com/progDownload/ATI-Radeon-Linux-Display-Drivers-Download-6719.html), and it was a .run file, and i dont know what to do now, or if that was even right

---

### Post by juancarlospaco on 2009-04-20
Correct, and normal, reinstall the drivers.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-04-20
> **libihero said:**
> after upgrading my 8.10 to 9.04, i lost my ati proprietary video driver, and now i currently have no drivers.  i tried installing one from here [http://linux.softpedia.com/progDownload/ATI-Radeon-Linux-Display-Drivers-Download-6719.html](http://linux.softpedia.com/progDownload/ATI-Radeon-Linux-Display-Drivers-Download-6719.html), and it was a .run file, and i dont know what to do now, or if that was even right

install it like
```

cd Desktop
sudo chmod 777 *.run
sudo ./*.run

```

just like you run any .bin or .sh program

be sure to hit Alt + F1, log in and type this stuff in first (this stops Xserver, which is required)
```

sudo killall gdm
sudo killall kdm

```

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-20
ok gonna try thanks :)

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-20
ok i dont get ur second part, alt-F1 just opens the menu.....

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2009-04-20
> **libihero said:**
> after upgrading my 8.10 to 9.04, i lost my ati proprietary video driver, and now i currently have no drivers.  i tried installing one from here [http://linux.softpedia.com/progDownload/ATI-Radeon-Linux-Display-Drivers-Download-6719.html](http://linux.softpedia.com/progDownload/ATI-Radeon-Linux-Display-Drivers-Download-6719.html), and it was a .run file, and i dont know what to do now, or if that was even right

Which card do you have? Jaunty uses xorg 1.6 which requires the catalyst 9.4 driver. the catch being that ATI dumped support for both Windows and Linux for a bunch of older cards, which are therefore no longer supported by the latest (9.4) version of the proprietary drivers. To run the older cards under jaunty you need to use the opensource driver. You don't need to download anything from softtpedia. Everything you need is in the ubuntu repos.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-04-20
> **libihero said:**
> ok i dont get ur second part, alt-F1 just opens the menu.....
eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
im being foolish today
Control +Alt +F1
instead of Alt F1

p.s. make sure you save your work before doing all this k?

---

### Post by jimrz on 2009-04-20
> **libihero said:**
> ok i dont get ur second part, alt-F1 just opens the menu.....
should have been alt+f2, which will open a little "run application window" you can use

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-04-20
> **jimrz said:**
> should have been alt+f2, which will open a little "run application window" you can use
i tried that once, and krunner crashed in mid xserver-shutdown......
so im just being majorly cautious.....

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-20
> Which card do you have? Jaunty uses xorg 1.6 which requires the catalyst 9.4 driver. the catch being that ATI dumped support for both Windows and Linux for a bunch of older cards, which are therefore no longer supported by the latest (9.4) version of the proprietary drivers. To run the older cards under jaunty you need to use the opensource driver. You don't need to download anything from softtpedia. Everything you need is in the ubuntu repos.
how do i tell which card i have?

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-04-20
> **libihero said:**
> how do i tell which card i have?
The famous
```

lspci

```
program ;)

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-21
ok, i did sudo killall gdm....
> be sure to hit Alt + F1, log in and type this stuff in first (this stops Xserver, which is required)

Code:
sudo killall gdm
sudo killall kdm
i did sudo killall gdm... and my desktop froze.  i restarted my computer, and the login screen wont load, it just shows a black screen with some random colors along the top of the screen...

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-21
bump

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-21
bump.... :(

---

### Post by Duskao on 2009-04-21
AMD has moved a number of DX9 ATI Radeon™ graphics accelerators products to a legacy driver support structure.  This change impacts Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Linux distributions.  AMD has moved to a legacy software support structure for these graphics accelerator products in an effort to better focus development resources on future products.

The following products have been moved to the legacy software support structure (including Mobile and All-in-Wonder Variants):

ATI Radeon 9500 Series
ATI Radeon 9550 Series
ATI Radeon 9600 Series
ATI Radeon 9700 Series
ATI Radeon 9800 Series
ATI Radeon X300 Series
ATI Radeon X550 Series
ATI Radeon X600 Series
ATI Radeon X700 Series
ATI Radeon X800 Series
ATI Radeon X850 Series
ATI Radeon X1050 Series
ATI Radeon X1300 Series
ATI Radeon X1550 Series
ATI Radeon X1600 Series
ATI Radeon X1650 Series
ATI Radeon X1800 Series
ATI Radeon X1900 Series
ATI Radeon Xpress Series
ATI Radeon X1200 Series
ATI Radeon X1250 Series
ATI Radeon X2100 Series

You might be falling under one of these so then you would have to install the driver from 9.3 or older. Well, sucks to be me as well. I have only had my card for about a year (radeon x1950 pro) and seems like I will have to upgrade it pretty soon here because I wasn't very happy with the 9.3 driver but they do keep getting better and better with each release. *shrug* If this is the case you might be better off just using the ubuntu drivers that came with it.

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-21
right now im just trying to log on my computer :(
after the ubuntu logo loads, it just gives me a black screen with some random colors scattered across the top part...
this was after i did killall gdm and installed the driver.. or i thought i did...

---

### Post by Vrekk on 2009-04-21
Im not sure if this will work (kinda a nub at this) but it is worth a shot.

Boot into recovery mode and at the option screen select repair x server. Then resume normal boot

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-04-21
> **libihero said:**
> right now im just trying to log on my computer :(
after the ubuntu logo loads, it just gives me a black screen with some random colors scattered across the top part...
this was after i did killall gdm and installed the driver.. or i thought i did...

you sure your using the right driver?
if its the wrong driver, it won't load at all (same thing applies for nvidia)

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-21
i really dont kno, but is there anyway to undo what i did so i can get to the desktop and try to work it again??

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-21
ya i tried that and it said to use the backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20090421172518.... and i did sudo cp to exchange it for /etc/X11/xorg.conf.... but it didnt fix it... i still get a black screen

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-21
bump!!!
i need to use my  computer :( :(

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2009-04-21
> **libihero said:**
> bump!!!
i need to use my  computer :( :(

Select recovery mode from the grub boot menu. When the recovery menu displays, scroll down to the line that says root  Drop to root shell prompt.

You were trying to use the fglrx driber right? If so then try this?:

```
aticonfig --initial
```

Then do a normal reboot.

If still no good. You could try this. Reboot into recovery root shell prompt again and erase the fglrx driver. 

```
sudo apt-get remove --purge xorg-driver-fglrx
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

Reboot. You system should come up with the open source driver.

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-21
didnt work... still a blank screen with random colors at the top... :(

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2009-04-21
> **libihero said:**
> didnt work... still a blank screen with random colors at the top... :(

Hmmmm did you end up purging the proprietary driver? What messages did you get?

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-21
it said that it is not installed, so it was not removed

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-22
is it possible for me to downgrade to 8.10?  would that fix this mess? or maybe have 9.04 reinstalled??

---

### Post by nandemonai on 2009-04-22
At this point it may be prudent to boot up using a live cd, backup all your user data and try a fresh install then take it from there.

Sounds like something messed up bad.

Unless anyone has a better suggestion?

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-22
to me that's perfectly fine.  how can i move my home folder or whatever to usb without loading the desktop??

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-22
well when i boot it does give me an error....
it says
modprobe: FATAL:  could not load /lib/modules/2.6....-generic/modules.dep: no such file or directory
i put ... because it was just numbers and i had to type fast
could that be the problem?

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-04-22
hmm.... that **could** be a problem... if your kernel isn't loading the correct modules for your videocard to function.

I guess theirs either
       1.) something wrong with the stuff ATI put in
       2.) ATI did NOT put the kernel in properly
       3.) wrong driver

either way, 9.04 is comming out tomorow

when theirs a kernel problem, its best to reinstall

to get the homedrive onto USB, boot up using a livecd.

mount our partition

mount your USB drive

drag and drop "home" folder

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-22
ya i wanna just use 8.10 anyways until the videocard and everything on 9.04 is figured out, thanks :)

---

### Post by TheRoot on 2009-04-23
I have the same problem, and I can't even get back to the working xorg without the fgrlx or other effects.

I only need to get back to the original just like the Live-CD one :(

Any help?

---

### Post by Richae on 2009-04-24
I was lucky to uninstall the fglrx driver by EXTRACTing the *.run file and CDing to *.run folder to find fglrx*.uninstall.sh within, Run the .sh script and reboot to normal (do it under recovery root mode, sorry for my poor English).

ps: run *.run -h to get the extract option.

---

### Post by Serious Black on 2009-04-26
I have a similar problem. i have an ATI X700 graphics card. after upgrading to 9.04 I had an unreadable screen. I did purge the proprietary drivers (which was not installed), and tried to edit the xorg.conf file to ue the "ati" driver with the same result. After changing the decive driver to "vesa" i have a working but VERY slow system, with no 3D support. Is a fresh install the only option left or do you have any other suggestions??

---

### Post by Serious Black on 2009-04-26
I might add that i tried the 9.04 liveCD with the same result.

---

### Post by GOVATENT on 2009-04-26
Will the ubuntu community be able to do anything to fix this problem with ati's driver? I will go back to 8.10 in most cases. It's always two step forwards one step back with linux. I know it's not the community fault, but AMD's. I did like the speed with EXT4 so far.

---

### Post by Serious Black on 2009-04-27
I think the most ironic thing with this issue is that it is really a telling example of the superiority of open source and how vulnerable you are if you are using proprietary software (or drivers). Hopefully the open source ATI drivers will be fixed soon.

---

### Post by libihero on 2009-04-27
lol im just frustrated with how people talk bout how awesome jaunty is while im stuck in 8.10... :(

---

### Post by cebif on 2009-05-08
I also had the blank screen after installing the proprietary fglrx driver for my ATI Radeon 9800 Pro. The other bad thing is even though the fglrx 9.3 driver worked in Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid the amount of 3d acceleration is less than with the older generation Nvidia Geforce FX5700 card. I think the nvidia card has only four pixal pipelines and the ATI card has 8. Although the default GPU speed are slower in the ATI card 
I was lucky that I had the older nvidia card. I uninstalled the proprietary fglrx driver then put my old card in and installed the nvidia proprietary driver for it.
In Ubuntu 9.04 I am getting twice the 3d frame rate with similar quality settings than I did with the proprietary fglrx 9.3 driver in Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid. That is with playing FlightGear 1.0

---

### Post by cebif on 2009-05-08
> **GOVATENT said:**
> Will the ubuntu community be able to do anything to fix this problem with ati's driver? I will go back to 8.10 in most cases. It's always two step forwards one step back with linux. I know it's not the community fault, but AMD's. I did like the speed with EXT4 so far.

I think the problems with the open source ati driver have been around for quite a long time now. Also from what I understand AMD/ATI make their hardware specifications available to the open source community, even more than nvidia but the nvidia proprietary driver seems better. This seems strange to me. I am beginning to think the problems with the ati driver will take a long time or never to sort out.

---

