---
title: "11.04 lost all interface"
date: 2011-05-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mzbh on 2011-05-17
Hello,

I really need help for this, I recently messed up with my theme, adding animation and all other stuff, but in the setting I mistakenly disable all interface which cause it to remove all interface and toolbar and what only left is media folder,

I'm noob too and not familiar with shortcuts key except key to turn it off. I also can't open terminal.

I'm considering to reinstall it but since I've install most of driver and software maybe I can find other way to restore it.

thanks.

---

### Post by Prince Valiant on 2011-05-17
A couple things to try:

Alt+F2 might give you a place to type the name of a program you want to run.  (I'm doubtful this will work, but it's worth a try)

press the power button, and log out.  Then choose Ubuntu Classic at the bottom menu after you click on your user name (or whichever one you didn't customize-Ubuntu or Ubuntu Classic).

Have fun!

-Val

---

### Post by dcsoldschool53 on 2011-05-17
I am not sure how I can help you with this, but here is a starting point. Press the keys ALT + F2. This will open up Run Applications. Here we can open up a terminal and any program that you need to fix your system.
When the program opens, type in this command```
gnome-terminal
```This will open the terminal for you.

Also every program has a command line name that you can type in the terminal. If you don't know the command line name, tell us the  name programs you need. We can help you find the terminal command for it.

---

### Post by potat on 2011-05-17
Ctrl-Alt-T will open Terminal.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-05-17
You  may have accidentally disabled Unity. To re-enable it right click anywhere to create a new folder. Open it and on the left panel choose "File System", then go to /usr/share/applications to find the CCSM launcher, click to open it to re-enable Unity and then reboot.

---

### Post by mzbh on 2011-05-19
thanks for help but I've found a way to solve it, first log on as ubuntu classic then make a shortcut for compizconfig settings, then log on as new ubuntu. enable the unity plug-in back.

---

### Post by Prince Valiant on 2011-05-20
Don't forget to mark the thread as solved:  at the top of the page, click "thread tools" then "mark as solved."

Glad it's fixed!

-Val

---

