---
title: "Help with screen resolution!"
date: 2008-12-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by thetrevorharmon on 2008-12-17
OK, i'm running a dual boot XP/8.04 Ubuntu. I run my screen resolution in XP at 1280x1024. In Ubuntu, it will only let me go up to 1024x786. I've tried many things to edit the xorg.conf file, but none seem to work. I've tried "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver.xorg" which gave me:

```
Package `xserver.xorg' is not installed and no info is available.
Use dpkg --info (= dpkg-deb --info) to examine archive files,
and dpkg --contents (= dpkg-deb --contents) to list their contents.
/usr/sbin/dpkg-reconfigure: xserver.xorg is not installed

```

I've tried "gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf", so I can hard edit the file myself, but upon restart it goes back to default, or simply doesn't work. When I hard edited the file, I changed the " Section "Screen" " to 

```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

When I try "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg", it gives me

```
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20081217153736

```

Over and Over again. What should I do? I'm running an NVIDIA card, and my xorg.conf settings are as follows:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
```

Also, after every boot, my screen is a different resolution. It's extra wide.(so it'd be about 1280x786, as a rough estimate) Do these relate to one another?

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-12-17
well licky you are not running ibex, I suggest opening up a terminal and put in this command:
gksudo displayconfig-gtk

that should help you select a monitor and a monitor resolustion to suit your needs.
Most of the time the generic ones will work.

---

### Post by thetrevorharmon on 2008-12-17
Oh excellent. It worked! thanks. its not very clear now, any suggestions for sharpening it?

---

### Post by HotShotDJ on 2008-12-17
Please open a terminal (Applications --> Accessories --> Terminal) and type the following"```
xrandr -q
```and then post the output here.

---

### Post by Muldarfbi on 2008-12-17
Hi everyone... I have a problem with my screen resolution. It's not really a problem, it's just that the text is too small. I just installed Ubuntu 8.10 on my new puter, it was the size that it gave me, but the text is too small for an old man's eyes. Can you help me change the settings please? I've done it in Debian, but that was a while back and I have forgotten.

Thanks in advance for the help guys....

Muldarfbi...

---

### Post by Lundix on 2008-12-18
> **HotShotDJ said:**
> Please open a terminal (Applications --> Accessories --> Terminal) and type the following"```
xrandr -q
```and then post the output here.
Hello, I am another person but with the same problem (almost) I run Nvidia 6150 on my PC. I have a 19 inch screen. On tsrat up the screen resolution is always on "auto" using 1024x768. I managed to "trick" the PC to use 1360x768 by manual change it to this. At the first attempt the screen reply that the reolution is not applicable and i Push Esc. Once back the Hz drop down menue (In Nvidia settings panel) has two options saying 60Hz (1) and 60 Hz (2). By choosing the 60 Hz (2) I can then change the resolution to 1360x768. I have to repeat the process every startup though cause its always reset to Auto on startup. I did run the command you suggested and had the following output:

Screen 0: minimum 320 x 240, current 1360 x 768, maximum 1360 x 768
default connected 1360x768+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1024x768       50.0     63.0     64.0  
   800x600        51.0     52.0     53.0  
   680x384        54.0     55.0  
   640x480        56.0  
   576x432        57.0  
   512x384        58.0  
   400x300        59.0     60.0     61.0  
   320x240        62.0  
   1360x768       63.0     64.0* 
hans@ubuntu:~$ 

Any suggstion how to make my changes permanent??

---

### Post by Kellemora on 2008-12-18
Hi TTH

Give this a try!

TTUL
Gary

Screen Resolution Problems?  Easy fix!
Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron

From a Noob for fellow Noobs!

Preliminary Note:
This document is to address Changing Screen Resolution using Preferences causes Screen to Roll horizontally, vertically or just mess up royally.  Also, only 640 x 480 resolution available in Preferences.  This fix may or may not allow you to select other available resolutions from the Preferences Option without changing MODE lines in /etc/X11/xorg.conf which I am not addressing here.
If this fix causes log-in screen obesity (HUGE SCREEN), see my other post titled Huge Log-in Screen?  Easy fix!  Which addresses that problem separately and easily.

To get started we need the Tool called Screens and Graphics.
If it is not available under Applications/Other, then RIGHT CLICK on Applications, select Edit Menu (left click) and wait for the Main Menu screen to open.  From the Main Menu, left column (Menus) select 'Other' and a new list of text will appear in the right screen (items).  Place a check mark in the box to the left of Screens and Graphics, this will automatically select 'Other' if it was NOT in your drop down list under Applications.  Close this window.
You will have to REBOOT for the change to take affect.

Once you're up and running again, left click on Applications/Other/Screens and Graphics.
A log-in screen will appear, type your Normal log-in password.  Why it don't ask for Root I don't know.

In the Screens and Graphics Preferences window select Graphics Card first just to check to make sure your correct graphics card is displayed.  Normally these entries are correct, but check them anyhow!

OK, now select the Screen Tab and get things set up to run properly.

Click on the little Monitor icon to the right of Model:  It may currently say Plug n Play.  A new (Choose Screen) window opens, from the Left window, select the Manufacturer of your Monitor.  The screen on the right will change to the models that manufacturer makes.  Scroll through the list to find your Monitors model name and number and/or identification.
If you have an .inf driver for your particular monitor and it is not listed, select add and follow the directions there.  I've not found a monitor not already in the listing yet.  Then I never have many new things either, that might not be listed long before I get it, hi hi.........  IF a Test button comes up, just IGNORE IT, because your screen will mess up royally.  After selecting your monitor, select OK!  This will bring you back to the Screen and Graphics Preferences screen.
Here you will select the desired resolution you would like your DESKTOP to run in.  The proper bandwidth should self-select, but check to make sure it's right for your monitor.  A wrong setting could damage your monitor!
Select OK and it will change and ask you if you want to Keep this setting.  If all looks OK, select YES.
This change, and all the default parameters for your selected monitor WILL be written to the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.  Also, the Screens and Graphics window may show UNKNOWN for your monitor.  The result of this Unknown Monitor or sometimes even if the Monitor is KNOWN and displays correctly the resultant change to the xorg.conf file, may cause your log-in screen to become OBESE (HUGE) and you might not be able to see your log-in boxes.

But don't worry, you KNOW they are there! 
Just type in your log-in name, hit enter and type your password, hit enter and wait for the log-in to complete.  Your xwindow (Gnome or others) should be at the desired resolution now.

IF you did have the HUGE log-in problem, see my post on Huge Log-in Screen?  Easy fix!

The above was tested on the following machines with complete success:
HP Pavilion 753n, 2.53GHz Intel P4, 512mb, Intel 82845G/GL video, Samsung SyncMaster 955df.
e-machines T4165, 1.6GHz Intel P4, 256mb, AGP 3D video, AOC monitor.
Compaq 5420, 1.47GHz Athlon XP1700, Savage 4 AGP video, Samsung SyncMaster 3Ne.


TTUL
Gary/aka Kellemora
9/10/08 – rev 9/15/08

---

### Post by thetrevorharmon on 2008-12-19
> **HotShotDJ said:**
> Please open a terminal (Applications --> Accessories --> Terminal) and type the following"```
xrandr -q
```and then post the output here.

OK, here it is:

```
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 240, current 1280 x 1024, maximum 1280 x 1024
default connected 1280x1024+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1280x1024      60.0* 
   1280x960       60.0  
   1024x768       60.0  
   800x600        60.0     56.0  
   640x480        60.0  
   1280x800       60.0  
   1280x768       60.0  
   640x512        60.0  
   720x450        60.0  
   640x400        60.0  
   640x384        60.0  
   512x384        60.0  
   400x300        60.0     56.0  
   320x240        60.0  

```...now what?

---

### Post by HotShotDJ on 2008-12-19
> **thetrevorharmon said:**
> ...now what?Ok... that looked right.  It shows that your monitor is running at the resolution you want at 60Hz.  Go to System --> Preferences --> Screen Resolution.  Make sure that things look right in there.  If you need to make any changes, click on Apply and then close.

Next, open System --> Preferences --> CompizConfig Settings Manager (you may need to install this package using Synaptic Package Manager).
Click on General Options. Select the Display Settings Tab.  If there are ANY resolution settings located in the Outputs box, DELETE them.  Make sure that "Detect Outputs" is selected.  Make sure that the Refresh Rate slider is set to 60 (as per the xrandr -q output) and UNCHECK "Detect Refresh Rates" (since we're setting it manually).

Once you are done, close up all applications, and restart the x server (you can use Ctrl+Alt+Backspace for this)

Let us know what happens.

---

