---
title: "I wrote a compare and contrast essay for my english comp class, wanna check it out?"
date: 2008-10-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by whoscheesemine on 2008-10-14
My professor assigned us a compare and contrast essay, and I decided to do mine on Windows and Ubuntu. Now, I tried not to be TOO biased, but I'll openly admit its still pretty rediculously biased. Luckily my professor is cool and was all like, "Look, it can be hard not to be biased, especially when writing a compare and contrast essay. Try to avoid it, but you're not going to lose any points for it."

I suppose my thesis here was to create a comprehensive compare and contrast that the non-technical user would be able to read and appreciate. I didn't want my main point to be UBUNTU IS GOD ALL SHOULD INSTALL IT!!!! I basically just wanted to stress the point that whether or not you are a technical user, it is important to know that everyone has the option of using an alternate operating system, and that Ubuntu may contain the functions that fit your needs. I know some may not like me wording that as every operating system other than Windows is an alternate operating system, but to the non-technical user. It is.


Now, some of my info may not be 100% correct and PLEASE feel free to correct me if I'm wrong about anything, but know I didn't just write this completely off the top of my head. I did actually put a few days *keep in mind by few days I mean minus work every other moment was spent working on this thing and no i didn't sleep lol, maybe a wink or two in class*.

Ahh, just by reading my little intro here you can tell I'm a rather scattered person.

Anywho! With out further ado! I bring you! Comparing and Contrasting Windows to Ubuntu.


	Windows is the dominant operating system used among our society today. Its emblems are easily recognizable and most people believe that its simply a standard for computer use. Linux is an operating system that has been around long before Windows was ever released. It is owned by no one so many people use its source (series of codes used to compile software or programs) to create &#8220;custom&#8221; operating systems. The one we're talking about today is known as Ubuntu. It is developed and maintained by an organization known as Canonical Resources. Now, these operating systems are similar in that  they're both compatible with a wide array of programs,they both function well for home and office use, and both offer the infamous &#8220;desktop&#8221; interface. However, there are many areas in which they differ. These include costs, compatibility, and how they perform. It is important to know that Windows is not a user's only choice when it comes to which operating system they use.

	An operating system is a program that adds usability to a computer. It regulates system resource usage, contains a GUI (Graphical User Interface), and provides a mean for the user to manipulate their computer. It acts as a sort of house for other applications/programs. Think of it as a big program that runs a bunch of little programs that make a computer do what its told to do.

	Windows was developed in the 80's by Bill Gates and Paul Allen. Designed to be a commercial operating system, it was the first successful system to feature a desktop interface. This is what made it ideal for the home market. A desktop interface is a program that provides the user with a  background, icons, and menus. Being as users could now point and click to do what they want, even with little to no technological background, now meant that anyone could use a computer to &#8220;simplify&#8221; their needs. According to Criag Mundie, Chief Research and Strategy Officer for Microsoft, the goal of Windows is to: &#8220;help [new technologies] emerge and hopefully to have a leadership role in doing that, but clearly other people will be attempting that too.&#8221;. Windows fully realizes that alternative operating systems exist, but rather than bash them and make rash claims they have more of a &#8220;Bring it on!&#8221; type of attitude.

	April 2004, Mark Shuttleworth put together a small, yet brilliantly talented, dedicated  group of passionate open source developers to create a revolutionary new  operating system. One that would be community oriented and could provide the functions that any computer user, technical or non, could utilize. In October of 2004, they released Ubuntu 4.10. Keeping in mind that one of its main goals was to help the non technical  user discover a free, easy to use, and functional alternate operating system, Ubuntu's slogan is &#8220; Linux for human beings.&#8221; Another important goal of Ubuntu is that any user should have unlimited access to resources of any type of software they may desire, at no cost. The actual word &#8220;Ubuntu&#8221;, in its self, is actually an ancient Southern African philosophy meaning: there exists a common bond between us all and it is through this bond, through our interaction with our fellow human beings, that we discover our own human qualities. Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town, South Africa defines a person who has the trait of Ubuntu, &#8220;A person with Ubuntu is open and available to others, affirming of others, does not feel threatened that others are able and good, for he or she has a proper self-assurance that comes from knowing that he or she belongs in a greater whole and is diminished when others are humiliated or diminished, when others are tortured or oppressed.&#8221;  Former South Africa president, Nelson Mandela, furthers this definition by explaining a situation and posing a question, &#8220;A traveler through a country would stop at a village and he didn't have to ask for food or for water. Once he stops, the people give him food, entertain him. That is one aspect of Ubuntu but it will have various aspects. Ubuntu does not mean that people should not address themselves. The question therefore is: Are you going to do so in order to enable the community around you to be able to improve?&#8221; Using these ideas as a common ground it is every Ubuntu user's duty to give back to the community as much as they can, as it is the community's responsibility to provide as much as possible to the user. Ubuntu, itself, is completely free of charge and virtually all of the programs compatible with it are actually written and distributed freely by the Ubuntu community. If ever a time a member of the community, whether they've been using it for a day or for eight years, has a problem all they need to do is post their question on [www.ubuntuforums.org](www.ubuntuforums.org) and they'll promptly receive an answer from another community member. The same is offered to those wandering towards the community. Remember, no Ubuntu user of any kind is ever alone.

	Both operating systems offer compatibility with a plethora of useful programs. Essentially anything one could think of, somebody has written a program for. Be it math, scheduling, music players, internet browsers, or anything your little heart desires. If it wasn't for programs would we really need a system to operate them? Would we even need computers? All computer users require functionality. It is the duty of both operating systems to create a working environment; in which, the user may access and use programs and applications to fulfill their needs.

	Now, speaking of programs, either operating system should work well in the home or office setting. Windows will with lots of constant maintenance, and Ubuntu with a good amount of work right after installing, but we'll get into that later on. When both systems are in working order they should provide all the functions you'd require of a home or office computer. For example, Windows has Microsoft Word, while Ubuntu has OpenOffice.org writer. This is important as computers are now a common standard in the home and work place.

	Both of these operating systems feature that neat little &#8220;desktop&#8221; visualization that users have all grown to love. Don't know what I'm talking about? Well, know how the computer screen has that big picture of Garfield, or whatever, covered in all those little icons and menus and such? That's the desktop. It's one of many other types of graphical user interfaces. Oh, thought that was just part of the computer? Much to learn young padawon. These two operating systems, probably more than any other, stress on having the most user-friendly desktop interface.

	To be completely honest, as similar as these operating systems may seem, they really couldn't be any different. In all actuality, every similarity pointed out prior to this paragraph is also the standard for every other operating system released including: Macintosh, Solaris, and Mandriva. The reason for this, is because these are all thing a user would normally expect a computer to be able to do, so why should an operating system be developed that couldn't do any of that? Anyways, back to what we're talking about. Windows and Ubuntu could not be more different.

	A brand new copy of Windows Vista can run the user about $250. Not only is Ubuntu free to install/use, distribute and, edit; Canonical Resources will actually send you a CD in a neat slip with instructions on how to install. Now, we'll get into this a bit later, but its important to know for now that  once you get a good solid install, you'll never have to install it again. Microsoft actually forces the user to purchase and install a new operating system after a few years. They manage to do this in a smooth transition though, to where the common user will wind up wanting to do the install anyways, completely unaware that they were coasted in that direction.. It's a classic move Windows has always pulled. First, they give it some kind of thought provoking developmental name that isn't used in the final version. They leak out a little information about it being in testing stages, however give no technical descriptions or screen shots. Another year might go by, and &#8220;somehow&#8221; some screen shots get out and everyone wants to see them so badly they completely forget that it is the technical side that is more important. One can give any operating system any sort of visualization. The interface is generally always stunning compared to its predecessor and everyone decides to make all their judgments based off of that, knowing absolutely nothing about the system. Another year goes by, and Windows gives out a release date that's even another year away. Then about a month before the release date they'll push it back about another six to eight months. By this time, not a single Windows user can wait to get their hands on it.  Especially since a year or two after releasing that operating system they'll stop releasing updates for the system the user had prior. By that time most people don't even remembers using the other operating system, and those who do don't have the option of going back for fear of having a vulnerable system due to the lack of updates.. It's rather genius if you think about it. For example, Microsoft will soon be discontinuing updates for Windows XP. This will force all XP users to eventually either purchase Windows Vista, or buy a new computer with it already installed. Considering the purchase price, why not choose the latter? Being as after purchasing it the average XP user's computer is not going to be able to run Vista smoothly anyways. Ubuntu, Xubuntu in particular, actually breathes life into old computers, because there's no need for a heavy-weight operating system. Why have that huge big bulky expensive computer with Vista on it when its going to run just as fast as a computer I purchased 5-6 years ago.

	Now, when it comes to compatibility, Windows has it hands down. That is if the program you're trying to make work was written to work under Windows. As I mentioned before, I highly doubt, other than gaming, you can think of something that you need a program for that Ubuntu doesn't already have to offer. The reason the latest games do not work on an Ubuntu system is because no body is paying game designers to write games to be compatible with Linux/Ubuntu. Why should your standard game designer, fresh out of college, who's probably not even had that much experience with , take the time to do all the coding for a  compatible game when 1) They don't have to do it, 2)Their boss is not paying them to do so, and 3) It's hard enough to write code for Windows let alone . It's within Windows best interest to make sure things stay like this as well, as they get paid every time a game is written for their system for licensing reasons. So, when it comes to making Windows games compatible with the Ubuntu system, its basically up to the community. There are some cool game designers out there, such as ID Software, that do write their games to be compatible with the Linux/Ubuntu system. ID Software is the beloved game design company that brought us the Doom and Quake series. Worried about writing a document in OpenOffice.org, and having it not be compatible for someone to view who has Microsoft Office Word? No fear, OpenOffice.org documents can be saved in a compatible file format so that Windows users can view them with out any problem. Ubuntu is Windows friendly, however Windows isn't exactly Ubuntu friendly. OpenOffice.org Writer can open any Microsoft Office Word Document, so you can think of Windows as Ubuntu's fair &#8211; weather friend.

	I'm sure there's been plenty of times when you know that your computer isn't running the way it used to. It doesn't take any technological knowledge to realize that it didn't always used to take so long to run a certain program, or that your computer didn't always flash to some big blue screen with a bunch of characters on it you've never seen before. (The blue screen I'm referring to is typically known as the Blue Screen of Death, a typical, not always explainable error that comes up in Windows operating systems.) The reason why your computer slowly becomes not as good as it once was is because the typical computer user is constantly being bombarded with viruses, spyware, adware, and other system resources hogging applications. Plus, in Windows your registry is constantly being manipulated by other programs and is what causes those &#8220;weird&#8221; errors. So, what can someone do about all that? Well, the solution is easy. You buy a bunch of expensive anti-virus, anti-spyware/malware/adware, and registry optimizing technology, to get you already expensive computer and operating system to work right. Oh, what's that? Keeping all those programs running has become to much for the amount of RAM that you currently have? Well fine! I guess you'll have to go purchase some more RAM to upgrade your computer. Good thing its manufactured by IBM who's partnered with Windows otherwise they wouldn't make any money off that either! Ubuntu is virtually impenetrable to viruses, spyware/adware, or registry problems. Most people argue that since Ubuntu isn't that popular not many viruses are written that would affect the system. However, not only does  offer several free virus scanners its of essentially no use being that one will rarely ever encounter a virus during their use of Ubuntu. Its also next to impossible to accomplish the writing of a virus for Ubuntu as you cannot make any sort of root change to the system with out the user being notified and told to enter a password. The exact same explanation goes for spyware/malware/adware as well. Ubuntu's registry is tightly woven into their kernel and installation of other programs doesn't effect the registry in any way other than stating you have the program. As long as you've been properly set up after installation, you're never going to encounter any sort of problem that will slow down your computer. That means you'll never have to spend any extra money on any tune up software, nor will you have to ever reformat your hard drive or install another operating system. 

	A common saying in the Ubuntu community is, &#8220;Take a half hour setting up XP and you'll have a pretty good computer. Spend 45 minutes setting up Ubuntu and you'll have a fantastic computer for the rest of your life.&#8221; I don't necessarily agree with this to a certain extent, but I see the point they're trying to make. With XP its fairly easy to set up. If you bought a computer that already came with Windows then you're ready to go, installation wise. If your computer has something older than XP on it, it is very easy to &#8220;upgrade&#8221; or install XP. Simply put the CD in and restart your computer. The CMOS settings on most motherboards are generally set, by default, to boot from the CD-ROM drive before booting from the hard drive. It will bring up a neat little menu that will give you the option to to install. Click it, wait, follow the instructions to remove the CD at the end, and reboot the computer Voila! You've installed Windows XP. 

	Ubuntu is the exact same way except you have the option of either using the Live CD or the Alternate CD. If you choose the Live CD, then once your computer boots up with the CD in the CD-ROM drive, it goes right to Ubuntu. Yes, that's right you can actually run the operating system from your CD-ROM first to kind of &#8220;trial&#8221; run it to see if you like it first. Right on the desktop you will find a simple ICON that says install. You basically have one of three options here. You can have Ubuntu go ahead and install right in your Windows partition with out messing anything up, or you can have it manually take all the free space left over in your windows partition and make its own partition for Ubuntu on its own. Lastly, you can be cool, and manually create your own Ubuntu partition and swap partition. Once it begins to install it will ask you a VERY easy to answer questions. The website says it takes about 25 minutes, but I believe that they're talking about the alternative installation. It takes about 45 minutes. The only difference between the alternative installation CD and the Live CD is only that the alternative CD doesn't actually load Ubuntu for you to try first. It goes right into a text based installer, hence why it is the preferred method in quickly installing it. Plus, if you were working with a lower end computer that had a slower CD-ROM drive, this would be the ideal method, because if you load the Live CD in a slow CD-ROM drive you're going to be giving yourself a headache, because the &#8220;trial&#8221; Ubuntu will run and lag so slow that you're not going to even want to continue installing with this method.

	Now, once Windows is installed, you're ready to go. Oh, wait, no you're not, because most of the drivers for your hardware weren't installed during installation. So, you'll need to either have the driver CD's for all the hardware not working properly, or easily download and install each driver online... oh, you can't get on the internet, because your network adapter isn't working? Very typical. Generally, when first installing Windows XP, you'll be missing the driver for your network, graphics, and sound adapters. That is because, in the Windows world, programmers are paid by what ever hardware company they work for to write working Windows drivers. They write a different driver for each different device. For example. Let's invent our own company company named Computisol. Now, lets imagine that Computisol is a company that makes sound adapters. Now, the first sound adapter they release they decide to call it the SA100. They like it. It makes sound. Before they release it for retail, they'll buy a license from Windows for a driver writing toolkit. This provides them with the code necessary to write a driver that will allow a user to use this sound adapter with their Windows ran computer. In all actuality, the programmers already know enough code to write these drivers themselves and with out any toolkit, but they would be using code owned by Microsoft and then selling it for retail. Which, would be illegal, because Windows is what is known as closed source. So, after buying the code they compile the driver, pop her on a CD, and either release it in a box as a PCI card, or sale it to a company about to release a motherboard which will either be sold in its own box, or to a company such as Dell who would sell it in one of their computers. A few months go by, Computisol releases the SA200. The same process occurs. What's the significance here? The fact that two separate drivers are released that will both only work with the adapter model it was released with. Now let's suppose our imaginable sound adapter company begins to do rather well. (Too bad we didn't really come up with this company ourselves aye? We'd be doin' pretty good.) They begin to release all sorts of models of this sound adapter. SA300, SA 400, SA 500, so on, so forth. They might even do so well, as to release a new type of it called the RG100. They go on to produce the RG 100, RG 200, etc. Maybe they even go back and make modifications of some of the older SA series and release an SA 300b, an SA 500b, an SA 600b.

	Going back to our missing driver to the sound adapter from our Windows installation. Being as the driver is not there, we don't even know which sound adapter our computer has. So, we don't know which driver to even download. If you still have the driver CD you're in luck, chances are you're going to accumulate so many of them in your life time that you probably can't keep track of them anymore. If you don't have the CD and your sound adapter is in the form of a PCI card you may be able to take it out and read it. It might sound complicated, but you can clearly see on the back of your computer where the sound plugs into, using that logic one can simple just take the case of their computer to see for their self. If the sound adapter isn't in the form of a sound card that means that the device is actually on the motherboard of the computer. Once again if that sounds complicated, there's basically a big gigantic chip inside of your computer, basically the about size of the case itself. Everything else in the computer plugs into this: PCI Cards, hard drives, CD-ROM drives. You're not going to be able to read exactly what sound adapter you have on your motherboard. Thus, making your little situation there a royal pain in the... aspirin, is what you'll require. You'll then have to do a ridiculous mad search online to try and find what adapter you have. Lets say, for the sake of simplicity, you know which sound adapter you have. You're then either going to have to go to the manufacturer's website and download the driver from there, which most of the time is very difficult to navigate to, or you're going to go to a well organized community-based forum where people upload drivers and organize them according to name brand, model, and operating system so its easy to find them. Such as, [http://www.driverguide.com/](http://www.driverguide.com/). Oh, but that's right! Our network adapter isn't working. So we can't use the internet.

	When it comes to drivers written to work with Ubuntu, they are written by other members of the Ubuntu community. They may release an SA driver that will work with every single SA model that Computisol ever released. Chances are that they'll have a driver that works with several brands and models of sound adapters. Since one driver is able to handle so many different sound adapters it is very simple to include them all in an Ubuntu CD. Whenever a user Ubuntu, a driver is ready for every single  hardware device on your computer. You'll have the best basic driver for your display adapter so things won't look as out of focus and uncolored as it would if you had to use the Windows Standard Compliance basic graphic driver for those times you are missing your display adapter. You're wireless, network, and sound adapters will usually be working as well, especially if they're all actually on the motherboard.. You may be prompted to ask if you would like to download a restricted driver for a certain hardware you have, but what that means is it is a driver that was released by a company that had actually decided to make a  compatible driver, but Canonical wasn't able to distribute on their CD for legal reasons. Ubuntu will direct you where you can download this driver at and is usually recommended as these drivers may contain code to enhance functionality of the hardware. For example, if someone had an NVIDIA or ATI display adapter, Ubuntu will have a basic driver installed that will allow you to view your computer with good picture and ratio, but when it comes to playing a game, the graphics may not work properly. After installing the restricted driver the graphics may gratuitously enhanced to where one is able to play a game that requires a high amount of graphic processing. 

	Assuming that you were able to able to get all of your drivers for your Windows installation, you're pretty much set with it comes to that point. You now have a working installation of Windows. However; you are now vulnerable to the problems we spoke of earlier concerning viruses, spyware/adware/malware, and registry errors. You'll now need to install lots of software to protect you against all of these dangers of the internet and installation of software. This will take a toll on your computer's system resources (stuff that makes your computer run at the speed it does) and your wallet (place where you keep your money). Not to mention, you'll have to consistently spend time keeping your computer in working order. For most people, this means either trusting some computer tech or the computer whiz-kid down the street from you. When it comes to Ubuntu, chances are, there are going to be those installations that will occur where a driver wasn't presented for your device. It happens, keep in mind, that it takes these problems occurring for them to be fixed for those who install the later versions of Ubuntu. You are provided with the tools and resources to attain these drivers.

	The [www.ubuntuforums.org](www.ubuntuforums.org) community are more than happy to communicate with you to solve any issue. You can either search the forums to find other people who had the same problems that you did and watch how they came to fix the problem, or you can receive feedback from the community on how to address the problem, or someone might just take it upon themselves to write the driver for you. Once these drivers are attained that's pretty much it, your system is in working order. Keep in mind, that by posting on the forum about how to address the problem and having other people guide you on solving, now anyone who ever uses the forum to figure out the same problem will now be able to read that documentation to simplify it for themselves. Ubuntu's coders will also review this material and try to make it so the next version of Ubuntu won't have the same issue come up. Assuming the driver situation is taken care of. Your Ubuntu installation is good to go. No programs are necessary to ensure the safety of your computer's health, so all of your  system resources are yours to command to run what ever program you'll need to run.

	I know a lot of this may not apply to the typical user, and that's perfectly fine. Most of suers probably bought a computer with Windows XP or Vista already installed, maybe that computer works just fine for you. Most computers now a days sold within the $500 - $700 (Which is generally an accepted price range among Windows fan base) have the system resources to handle XP and Vista as well as all that other software you have to run to keep it in working order. Maybe you just use your computer for internet browsing and email, and if you ever have a problem with that you know that someone you know will be able to quickly fix the problem for you. I'm not trying to say that Ubuntu is this all powerful operating system, and that all who do not use it are futile. Ubuntu definitely has a million quirks that still need to be worked out(not that Windows doesn't), and if one wants to play the latest games, it couldn't be easier on a Windows ran machine. The main point I would like to make is that it is important for the non-technical computer user to know that they do have the option of using alternative operating system with out having much technical knowledge. This country was founded on freedom and the computer world is no different.



I am totally open to criticism, both positive and negative. In fact, I will be rather disappointed if I don't receive any negative criticism.

As, I began to write this I didn't really realize the enormous project that it was to turn into. My original rough draft was around 3-5 pages double spaced, and the final came out to 12. I slowly began to realize that this might finally be the first thing I've ever been able to give back to the community that has given me so much. If anyone has any ideas as to how we can colaborate to start a sort of project with this to give back to the community or reach out to others, please, let me know. I would sit here and brainstorm on some ideas, but if I don't get this speech finished (which is actually an informative on Ubuntu) by 4:30 I'm in some trouble.

One more note, I probably should have stressed more about hardware incompatability with Ubuntu, but geeze, with the release of hardy... I'm not so sure anymore. I have a HECK of an easier time getting all my drivers for Ubuntu than I do for windows. Oh, and I might, and probably am, wrong about the driver part about how they write them. It's just kind of how I figured it worked based on what I've seen, but I'm probably wrong. 

Last note, I am not a computer programmer, nor coder of any kind, yet still consider myself an intermediate technical user. Funny how I'm actually a CET major even though, I know nothing about coding (well at least the doing it part), but that's part of another story I suppose I'll tell later.

Rock on community!:guitar:

**_[COLOR="Red"]EDIT #1:[/COLOR]_** My apologies for always posting everything in the beginer section. I need to get out of that immature little habbit to help better organize the forum. I will try from here on out to post topics under the correct forum catagory. I suppose I could have chosen a better topic name as well.

---

### Post by Orange_and_Green on 2008-10-14
Dear whosecheesemine,

I enjoyed reading your essay very much, thank you for sharing it with us. I'll throw in my 2 cents at the points that I found the most outstanding.


> **whoscheesemine said:**
> 
	Windows is the dominant operating system used among our society today. 

This is true only up to a degree. While it is true that most desktop computers nowadays are running some version of Windows, this is not true for servers, nor for embedded and dedicated systems, and the battle is pretty much open on other devices like mobile phones and PDAs. To be more technically accurate, you might want to specify that your article focuses on client (end-user) PCs.

Also, Windows is a very large family of OSes (I don't think anybody is running windows 1.0, or 3.1 nowadays, so you might limit your analysis to the post-Windows 95 group (and even there, there are big differences between the 95/98/Me-based kernels and the NT-based kernels like 2000/XP/vista)).

> **whoscheesemine said:**
> 
Its emblems are easily recognizable and most people believe that its simply a standard for computer use.
Many people actually think that computers and windows are one and the same thing... sadly. Projects like your essay are fantastic also because they help spread the news IMHO. :)

> **whoscheesemine said:**
> 
It is important to know that Windows is not a user's only choice when it comes to which operating system they use.
Very well said.

> **whoscheesemine said:**
> An operating system[...] contains a GUI
Well, not necessarily...

> **whoscheesemine said:**
> Windows was developed in the 80's by Bill Gates and Paul Allen. Designed to be a commercial operating system, it was the first successful system to feature a desktop interface. This is what made it ideal for the home market. A desktop interface is a program that provides the user with a  background, icons, and menus. Being as users could now point and click to do what they want, even with little to no technological background, now meant that anyone could use a computer to &#8220;simplify&#8221; their needs. According to Criag Mundie, Chief Research and Strategy Officer for Microsoft, the goal of Windows is to: &#8220;help [new technologies] emerge and hopefully to have a leadership role in doing that, but clearly other people will be attempting that too.&#8221;. Windows fully realizes that alternative operating systems exist, but rather than bash them and make rash claims they have more of a &#8220;Bring it on!&#8221; type of attitude.
I think that this part is a bit unbalanced. A little extra history about how it started (basically, a graphical front-end to DOS that was way cheaper than Macintosh and therefore became very popular) and how it evolved couldn't hurt. I would mention the "aggressive tactics" redmond used to obtain a de-facto monopoly (see Netscape) too.

Ubuntu's paragraph is pretty well done I think, nice job :KS

> **whoscheesemine said:**
> For example, Windows has Microsoft Word,while Ubuntu has OpenOffice.org writer.
Windows doesn't necessarily come with office (only if you buy a software bundle for pre-installed machines) and Openoffice is available for windows too. I think you might want to re-think this part, and keep it more to the OS per se. Or, you might start an analysis on open software in general (careful not to drift off-topic ;))

> **whoscheesemine said:**
>  every other operating system released including: Macintosh, Solaris, and Mandriva.
There are thousands of OSes out there, I mentioning just these three seems a bit odd to me, but I don't know...

> **whoscheesemine said:**
> A brand new copy of Windows Vista can run the user about $250.
LOL, do you know the price for vista ultimate in Europe? &#8364;500 = about $700...

> **whoscheesemine said:**
> once you get a good solid install, you'll never have to install it again.
Well, up to a degree. You have to keep your system upgraded, and Ubuntu versions do get obsolete as well, even though the upgrades are free of charge.

> **whoscheesemine said:**
> Now, when it comes to compatibility,
windows is (or was until recently) working out of a monopolist position, so interoperatibility and compatibility is no something microsoft is interested in. Actually, from a monopolist's viewpoint, it's contra-productive to be compatible.
Emerging competitors, on the other hand, have to be compatible or they get crushed..


> **whoscheesemine said:**
> I'm sure there's been plenty of times when you know that your computer isn't running the way it used to. It doesn't take any technological knowledge to realize that it didn't always used to take so long to run a certain program, or that your computer didn't always flash to some big blue screen with a bunch of characters on it you've never seen before. (The blue screen I'm referring to is typically known as the Blue Screen of Death, a typical, not always explainable error that comes up in Windows operating systems.) The reason why your computer slowly becomes not as good as it once was is because the typical computer user is constantly being bombarded with viruses, spyware, adware, and other system resources hogging applications. Plus, in Windows your registry is constantly being manipulated by other programs and is what causes those &#8220;weird&#8221; errors. So, what can someone do about all that? Well, the solution is easy. You buy a bunch of expensive anti-virus, anti-spyware/malware/adware, and registry optimizing technology, to get you already expensive computer and operating system to work right. Oh, what's that? Keeping all those programs running has become to much for the amount of RAM that you currently have? Well fine! I guess you'll have to go purchase some more RAM to upgrade your computer.
Again, there are open-source, or anyway free-of-charge security applications for windows. The main point for security is not its price IMHO, but the fact that Linux was born as a networked system in the first place, while windows started as a single-PC OS, and still has that underlying philosophy (think about the default user being admin... Linux was born with permissions at its very core). Nowadays there is virtually no PC that works outside of the network, so obviously a system that is designed to be network-based has advantages don't you think? ;)

LOL at the "not always explainable error" (^_^)

> **whoscheesemine said:**
>  However, not only does  offer several free virus scanners its of essentially no use being that one will rarely ever encounter a virus during their use of Ubuntu. Its also next to impossible to accomplish the writing of a virus for Ubuntu as you cannot make any sort of root change to the system with out the user being notified and told to enter a password. The exact same explanation goes for spyware/malware/adware as well. Ubuntu's registry is tightly woven into their kernel

There is no such thing as an Ubuntu registry (AFAIK)... Config files are all plain text and neatly sorted, which means they are easy to configure and customise (as opposed to the windows internals being purposely cryptic... let's face it, the windows registry is a terrible mess), but also come with strong permission criteria so malware cannot get access to them.

> **whoscheesemine said:**
>  With XP its fairly easy to set up.
No, it's not. You have to enter license keys, then call some call center to activate it, and you have to pop CDs in and out for every program you want to use, or spend hours on the internet to find one. Compare that to apt-get install my_wish_list... ;) Repositories are a wonderful thing, they make certified and secure software easily available. I'd definitely mention this if I were you... ;)

> **whoscheesemine said:**
> Ubuntu is the exact same way except you have the option of either using the Live CD or the Alternate CD.

The Live CD is wonderful for testing and troubleshooting new machines as well as already installed, malfunctioning ones (windows PCs included)! A+ for mentioning the Live CD, surely one of Linux' greatest features. I mean, compare Ubuntu's live CD to windows' recovery console... :lolflag:

> **whoscheesemine said:**
> 	Now, once Windows is installed, you're ready to go. Oh, wait, no you're not, because most of the drivers for your hardware weren't installed during installation. So, you'll need to either have the driver CD's for all the hardware not working properly, or easily download and install each driver online... oh, you can't get on the internet, because your network adapter isn't working? Very typical. Generally, when first installing Windows XP, you'll be missing the driver for your network, graphics, and sound adapters. That is because, in the Windows world, programmers are paid by what ever hardware company they work for to write working Windows drivers. They write a different driver for each different device. For example. Let's invent our own company company named Computisol. Now, lets imagine that Computisol is a company that makes sound adapters. Now, the first sound adapter they release they decide to call it the SA100. They like it. It makes sound. Before they release it for retail, they'll buy a license from Windows for a driver writing toolkit. This provides them with the code necessary to write a driver that will allow a user to use this sound adapter with their Windows ran computer. In all actuality, the programmers already know enough code to write these drivers themselves and with out any toolkit, but they would be using code owned by Microsoft and then selling it for retail. Which, would be illegal, because Windows is what is known as closed source. So, after buying the code they compile the driver, pop her on a CD, and either release it in a box as a PCI card, or sale it to a company about to release a motherboard which will either be sold in its own box, or to a company such as Dell who would sell it in one of their computers. A few months go by, Computisol releases the SA200. The same process occurs. What's the significance here? The fact that two separate drivers are released that will both only work with the adapter model it was released with. Now let's suppose our imaginable sound adapter company begins to do rather well. (Too bad we didn't really come up with this company ourselves aye? We'd be doin' pretty good.) They begin to release all sorts of models of this sound adapter. SA300, SA 400, SA 500, so on, so forth. They might even do so well, as to release a new type of it called the RG100. They go on to produce the RG 100, RG 200, etc. Maybe they even go back and make modifications of some of the older SA series and release an SA 300b, an SA 500b, an SA 600b.

	Going back to our missing driver to the sound adapter from our Windows installation. Being as the driver is not there, we don't even know which sound adapter our computer has. So, we don't know which driver to even download. If you still have the driver CD you're in luck, chances are you're going to accumulate so many of them in your life time that you probably can't keep track of them anymore. If you don't have the CD and your sound adapter is in the form of a PCI card you may be able to take it out and read it. It might sound complicated, but you can clearly see on the back of your computer where the sound plugs into, using that logic one can simple just take the case of their computer to see for their self. If the sound adapter isn't in the form of a sound card that means that the device is actually on the motherboard of the computer. Once again if that sounds complicated, there's basically a big gigantic chip inside of your computer, basically the about size of the case itself. Everything else in the computer plugs into this: PCI Cards, hard drives, CD-ROM drives. You're not going to be able to read exactly what sound adapter you have on your motherboard. Thus, making your little situation there a royal pain in the... aspirin, is what you'll require. You'll then have to do a ridiculous mad search online to try and find what adapter you have. Lets say, for the sake of simplicity, you know which sound adapter you have. You're then either going to have to go to the manufacturer's website and download the driver from there, which most of the time is very difficult to navigate to, or you're going to go to a well organized community-based forum where people upload drivers and organize them according to name brand, model, and operating system so its easy to find them. Such as, [http://www.driverguide.com/](http://www.driverguide.com/). Oh, but that's right! Our network adapter isn't working. So we can't use the internet.

Very true. Again, most people don't realise how much work it is to install windows on a PC, just because they come preinstalled. A preinstalled Ubuntu PC is just as easy to install :) Although, if you can read the manufacturer and the model name off your motherboard (some are really well hidden) or kept the motherboard's manual, a visit to the website of the motherboard's manufacturer will give you a quick link to all drivers... Often OEM versions, so possibly not best quality though...

> **whoscheesemine said:**
> When it comes to drivers written to work with Ubuntu, they are written by other members of the Ubuntu community. They may release an SA driver that will work with every single SA model that Computisol ever released. Chances are that they'll have a driver that works with several brands and models of sound adapters. Since one driver is able to handle so many different sound adapters it is very simple to include them all in an Ubuntu CD.

This is true in some cases, but it isn't in others. To be unbiased, you should also mention that many of the "out-of-the-box" drivers are generic drivers that don't exploit all the hardware's capabilities. What you might say, however, is that manufacturers who support open software release the specifications for their hardware, so programmers in the Linux community can write good drivers for it. Other manufacturers keep their specifications copyrighted, so the available drivers are either hacks, generic drivers, or proprietary drivers that don't work with all distros and are prone to get broken by updates. Or, simply, there are no working drivers. The lack of hardware drivers is not Linux' fault, but unfortunately many people are put off by Linux and turn back to windows because their hardware is not supported. I guess no one can blame them...

> **whoscheesemine said:**
> The [www.ubuntuforums.org](www.ubuntuforums.org) community are more than happy to communicate with you to solve any issue. 

Yep, this is what makes Ubuntu shine not only as opposed to windows, but among other Linux distros too. Ubuntu is not just a piece of software. It's a philosophy. It's an ideal. An it's even more than that: Ubuntu is all the people that make part of the Ubuntu community.

Thank you again for sharing, a very nice work.
Good luck on your presentation!!

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2008-10-14
> Linux is an operating system that has been around long before Windows was ever released.

I think you mean Unix, but then, Linux was inspired by Unix, but not directly based on its code. The first version of Linux kernel was released in 1991.

> Designed to be a commercial operating system, it was the first successful system to feature a desktop interface.

Actually, Apple was the first with the Lisa project in 1984. Windows only started to become successful in the early 90s.

---

### Post by rick08 on 2008-10-14
The essay was very good, but the main struggle i see today is using linux in a windows world.  I know servers are running linux/unix and all that stuff, but i'm talking about home use.  It is very hard, especially for students, to have to convert everything to a windows format to fit there schools need.  We need to improve on teaching young students that there is something else out there and hopefully they will influence there school system to make a change.  That is just my opinion, but the essay was very good.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-10-14
there are more benefits to the alternate install cd than just having lowered the requirements for installation:

- full encryption of the system
- various install options (like base install only)

I guess there's more to it but those are the two prominent ones to me.

---

### Post by whoscheesemine on 2008-10-27
I would like to just take a real quick breif moment to say that I have ready all the comments and plan on an extensive reply containing not only how appreciative I am for each of these posts, but also an edited version of the essay taking into account the comments I received

please keep in mind, as open source as I consider this essay, I ask that if one does plan on revising it or editing it that you please do not repost it in this particular thread or send it to me in any way shape or form, as i think that (not that the main point wasn't to create an extensive, intricate, yet easy-to-understand, essay. That the non-technical user could understand and/or appreciate.

I just didn't want anyone thinking that I had a temporary moment of wanting to give back to the community. I did read your comments. I do appreciate them greatly, and i actually urge further comments to persist. PLEASE CRITICIZE ME! The official reply will occur as soon as I can find the time. Not that I think partying is ridiculously important... brutha's gotta live right?! haha i won't get too far into my personal life, but i barely have the time to divulge in that either. Please don't give up on me. I'm not just another person who talks about giving back to the community yet never does. In all actuallity, as much as I'm lookin' forword to finding my own ways to give back to the community, I would find it rather inspirational if anyone could possibly list a good amount of ways that I can give back, keeping in mind that I don't know any specific coding "yet". I use quotes, because who knows where life will take me.

Love you community

---

