---
title: "10.10 or 11.04?"
date: 2011-05-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by SapientShell on 2011-05-06
As soon as a I get my new computer I'm gonna run Ubuntu, but which version should I go for? I have 10.10 ready to go but 11.04 is the newest. From what I've seen on this forum and read in reviews 11.04 has yet to be stabilized with bugfixes and what-not. So which version should I go for? 11.04 or stick with 10.10?

---

### Post by beew on 2011-05-06
Unless 10.10 doesn't work with some of your hardware I would go for 10.10. It is fast and stable. I see no advantage of 11.04 so far. It is quite buggy to say the least as you can see from all the threads on the forum. It is still beta software.

The only catch for using 10.10 is that the softwares are a bit out of date, but you can remedy that easily with ppas.

---

### Post by HereInOz on 2011-05-06
I tend to agree.  I run 10.04 LTS on my main computer, 10.10 on one laptop and 11.04 on another laptop.  The only reason I am running 11.04 is that I like change; like a bit of a challenge, and 11.04 is different from previous versions, which had a much more traditional feel about them.

I quite like the desktop in 11.04, and I am getting used to it as time goes on, but I agree with beew in that it is a little flakey at the moment.  

For instance, it uses Banshee as a media player, and while it is good, it does have some funny little quirks and sometimes presents with a blank screen, and has been known to indicate a song other than the one which is actually playing, whereas Rhythmbox, on the earlier versions, was pretty solid.

I have also heard that the Desktop version of the 11.04 CD has issues installing on some hardware, whereas 10.10 did not.  I use the alternate install iso, so I cannot confirm this.

---

### Post by ApparatusUnearth on 2011-05-06
I would wait for 11.10.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-05-06
If you choose to try Xubuntu instead of Ubuntu, then I would suggest 11.04. That's probably true of Kubuntu as well (I haven't tried it). It's only Ubuntu that is suffering from a new interface that has a few bugs left to shake out. That said, as a newcomer, you might like the new Unity interface. I think most of the objections are from people who have ingrained habits that they don't want to change (that includes me).

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-05-06
If you want a stable system i'd suggest using the LTS release, which is 10.04. You won't have to upgrade it until 2013, and uses the older and less buggy version of the interface.

Of course, you can always try out different versions from a LiveCD or USB stick and see which you like before committing to an install.

---

### Post by BertN45 on 2011-05-06
I would say, if you like to use the newest OS and can solve some smaller issues yourself:
- Ubuntu 11.04, if it runs good from the live-cd or usb stick and if you have 1 GB of memory.
- Xubuntu 11.04 if you have less then 1 GB of memory.

If your top priority is reliability and robustness:
- Ubuntu 10.04 LTS

First try to run the OS from the live CD or usb stick for some time and check the wifi.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-05-06
In my experience 10.10 actually runs much better than 10.04. I fail to see the advantages of Xubuntu or Kubuntu 11.04. It is still natty underneath and it has bugs unrelated to Unity, for example driver problems which have been reported on many threads.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-06
> **beew said:**
> In my experience 10.10 actually runs much better than 10.04. I fail to see the advantages of Xubuntu or Kubuntu 11.04. It is still natty underneath and it has bugs unrelated to Unity, for example driver problems which have been reported on many threads.I agree with this.....in my experience. I'm running Ubuntu 10.10 after Ubuntu 10.04 for 6 months and notice the improvement.I have tried KDE in both and returned to Gnome. I'm only waiting to upgrade when Gnome 3 will be more readily available.

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-05-06
11.04 hands down.

---

### Post by josephmills on 2011-05-06
10.10 I mean it is the answer to all life. Well according to the hichhickers guide to the galaxy

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-06
> **dFlyer said:**
> 11.04 hands down.
I'm surprised....and from a fellow Texan too. Don't you mean thumbs as opposed to the other fingers too?

---

### Post by tkelito on 2011-05-07
Ubuntu 11.04 is definitely not ready to be a primary production desktop.  I am currently running Kubuntu 11.04 and it is pure sweetness meeting all my needs.  

I had issues with Unity in the fact that the bars would "disappear" and only a restart would bring them back, lockups, certain apps wouldn't go onto the launcher, VNC/Virtualbox kept using each others icons on the launcher and launching the wrong apps.

It lasted 8 hours on my desktop before a I wiped/reloaded.

That being said though, if you switch it back to Gnome at the login screen Ubuntu 11.04 isn't that bad overall.  Unity just has a ways to go before it is full blow production ready.  Hopefully Unity will have a real coming out party in October.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-05-07
Go with 11.04, for a number of reasons:

1. You get newer software and newer hardware support
2. You get the chance to become familiar with the Unity desktop from the start
3. It's easier to get help from people on the forums if you're using the latest version of Ubuntu
4. A lot of complaints are that Unity is different to the desktop environment in 10.10 and earlier; if you've never used Ubuntu prior to 11.04, then you won't have any of those complaints.

And Ubuntu 11.04 is pretty good.

Every version of Ubuntu has issues which won't get fixed within its life. Ubuntu 10.10 has as many of them as 11.04. It's just that people are USED to the 10.10 issues and have forgotten about them, but those issues have probably been fixed in 11.04.

---

### Post by demilord on 2011-05-07
go to 10.10, 11.04 is still pretty buggy and less customizable as 10.10...  

I want them to fix the realtek wireless drivers first which has regressions. And the cpu usage is pretty high in idle state..

further the good part the 3d graphic performance is a killer on the 11.04.. but I think I skip the 11.04 version... and hope for the best in 11.10
just my 2 cents..

---

### Post by Linux&amp;Gsus on 2011-05-07
> **beew said:**
> I fail to see the advantages of Xubuntu or Kubuntu 11.04. It is still natty underneath and it has bugs unrelated to Unity, for example driver problems which have been reported on many threads.

From my understanding a lot of those issues are due to Unity. That would not be the case with Xubuntu or Kubuntu. Also, as I understand it, if one switches from Unity to good ol' Gnome, most of said issues are gone.
But please don't quote me on this, it is simply my impression by reading the forum. I personally don't use it. I'm a KDE guy, always have been.

Having said that, I have Kubuntu 11.04 on an old laptop, with an Intel 1.7GHz single-core(!) mobile processor and some ATI on-board graphics. It's my test and media machine. Kubuntu runs on there just fine, even though this isn't exactly a power house. I had 1 issue, which I think might have been cause due to my playing around with things.

All in all, I don't really see a reason to not use 11.04. Of course, checking the hardware with a LiveCD first is always good. On the other hand it's always good to remember that 11.04 is still pretty new. Of course, there will be some issues here and there that still need fixing. Some people will have more issues with a new release then others. I might think that this is rather normal. It 's the same with every new release of any OS and software. Hence you should try a LiveCD first. I'm in the lucky position that my laptop runs perfectly fine and I think that I will test and most likely upgrade my production machine next weekend, as well.

---

### Post by nomekop on 2011-05-07
unity is not really stable right now and i had alot of problems with it. i would get ubuntu 10.10, its stable and 11.04 is really buggy. i my self had alot of problems with 11.04, most i fixed my self, once i had to reinstall if you know how fix stuff your self go for 11.04 but if not 10.10 if very stable and i never had any problems with it.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-07
> **3rdalbum said:**
>  It's just that people are USED to the 10.10 issues and have forgotten about them, but those issues have probably been fixed in 11.04.Not true in my case....I find no difficulties with 10.10......possibly 11.04 will be there in a few months maybe not. My upgrading to 11.04 has nothing to do with Unity and everything to do with Gnome 3.and any possible kinks that are always inherent in a new version....especially one that makes this leap.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-05-07
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Go with 11.04, for a number of reasons:

1. You get newer software and newer hardware support
2. You get the chance to become familiar with the Unity desktop from the start
3. It's easier to get help from people on the forums if you're using the latest version of Ubuntu
4. A lot of complaints are that Unity is different to the desktop environment in 10.10 and earlier; if you've never used Ubuntu prior to 11.04, then you won't have any of those complaints.

And Ubuntu 11.04 is pretty good.



1. If you want new softwares you don't count on the Ubuntu repo, you get them from ppas (or install from source). As an example, minitube 1.4x has been available for Maverick through ppas for months but Natty's repo version is still 1.3 and will be 1.3 for the next 6 months. What is worse, 1.3 is not only old, it is broken!  So newer software is not an argument for a beta OS.

As for better hardware supports, I read many threads on wifi and graphic cards not working in Natty but they used to work in Maverick. The hardware doesn't change so unless there are missing supports in Maverick I see no point in installing Natty based on its present state.

2. What is the advantage of having a head start with a buggy UI? Why not wait until the wrinkles are smoothed out in 11.10?  Besides, there are better ways to acquaint oneself with Unity without turning your new computer into a beta testing box such as installing in an external drive (what I do), using a live usb or virtualbox.  Most people use their computers to do stuffs, not as a vehicle to learn about the UI and file bug reports. 

3. I don't think so, only more people are asking for help because there are more bugs in Natty.

4. So that is your agenda? :) Trying to get OP to start with 11.04 so he won't know what he may be missing. LOL 

> Every version of Ubuntu has issues which won't get fixed within its  life. Ubuntu 10.10 has as many of them as 11.04. It's just that people  are USED to the 10.10 issues and have forgotten about them, but those  issues have probably been fixed in 11.04.Well that is pretty lame.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-05-07
> **Linux&Gsus said:**
> From my understanding a lot of those issues are due to Unity. That would not be the case with Xubuntu or Kubuntu. Also, as I understand it, if one switches from Unity to good ol' Gnome, most of said issues are gone.
But please don't quote me on this, it is simply my impression by reading the forum. I personally don't use it. I'm a KDE guy, always have been.
...

Actually even the classic desktop in Natty is more buggy and you can quote me on this. :)

---

### Post by rx007 on 2011-05-07
I've been using 11.04 for a week now and I have not encounter any major issues. except sometimes, after waking from suspend, the sound is muted. 

I'm not using the Unity though, as it decreases my battery so still with classic. :)

---

### Post by SapientShell on 2011-05-07
Okay, instead of quoting this to death I'll sum it up for you guys:

Thanks for all the tips first and formost! I have desided to stick with 10.10 as my primary OS (might try 11.04 out via live cd as suggested). I'm still new to all of this and therefor I do not want to spend half of my time on google or various forums to fix a buggy version up, I wanna learn to use Ubuntu in a solid manner before I take on that sort of project. I know it works for some, and for others it doesn't. I'd rather wait until it works for all.

---

### Post by rx007 on 2011-05-07
yeah, that would be the best thing to do. just try booting the live cd if it works on your system and is compatible with your hardware. :)

---

### Post by beew on 2011-05-07
> **rx007 said:**
> yeah, that would be the best thing to do. just try booting the live cd if it works on your system and is compatible with your hardware. :)

Live cd is slow and doesn't save data and settings. There are much better options such as installing into an external drive (which I do) which has the power of a 'real' install (it is a real install in all sense) or at least, use a live usb with persistence so you can save your settings and tweaks, the drawback is that it is slow (unless you have usb 3) and it doesn't support a lot of system level changes (like updating kernel)

---

### Post by jnorthr on 2011-05-07
will vote with rx7 - stick with what you have if it works now, once you learn more of the overall structure and commands you'll feel more confident to do a partial upgrade later on when te bug fixes have cured some of these issues. FYI, i've always found the broadcom chipset to behave poorly. Either hang tight for a few months orbuy a cheap usb wireless dongle, if you really wanna push the envelope :popcorn:

welcome to the work of ubuntu linux :KS

---

### Post by dunderbamse on 2011-06-07
Well, I would test.. My laptop, LG R700 runs fine on 10.04 & 10.10 but when I installed 11.04 everything worked in slow-motion. I even disabled Unity but it did not help at all, the cpu fans run like mad and the computer got steaming hot. The computer crashed (probably because heat issue) and worst of all it did not recognize my battery so every time I unplugged the power cord the computer would go into standby-mode, witch I off-course couldn't recover from without shutting down the computer. 
So I went back to 10.10, I guess it works good or bad depending on the hardware(?).

---

### Post by Glencore on 2011-06-07
I am staying with 10.10 for the moment as 11.04 has issues with my geforce 8800gts and dual monitor set up.

---

### Post by PapaGary on 2011-06-07
Okay, here's the opinion of a newbie (FWIW):

I had been playing with various flavors of Linux for years (Puppy, Mandrake, Red Hat) but none of them lasted very long on my laptop. Last year I purchased a marginally functioning Dell laptop and after getting it to work with XP Pro I decided to install Ubuntu after buying a magazine with a 10.04 CD included. The little Dell loved 10.04 (Everything worked after the install) so earlier this year when I bought a Toshiba laptop I decided to install Ubuntu 10.10 64 bit and eliminate Win 7. It was a disaster. It croaked during the install (USB pen drive) and I gave up and reinstalled WIn 7. Later I decided to give Ubuntu another chance and made a fresh pen drive installer and installed it alongside Win 7. That worked but little else did. The wireless didn't work and it had no sound (strange since the Ubuntu bootup music played). Since a laptop is useless without wireless I decided to come here and figure it out. I played with several options but no joy until one day I fired up my little Dell and saw that Update Manger was announcing that 11.04 was now available. A light went on over my head (Really) and so I fired up the Toshiba, plugged in an ethernet cable, selected update manager, clicked on Update to 11.04 and waited for it to install. When I booted again....A MIRACLE! Every thing worked! I had wireless and sound. I'm a happy man. 

So, the moral of this overly long post is: Start with 10.04. If that works to your satisfaction then stay with it. If not explore other options with 10.10 or even 11.04.

Oh, I like Unity.:D

---

### Post by Lash009 on 2011-06-07
I've found that I'm much more productive with 10.10 when it comes to programing. The cube layout that I had in 10.10 made it much easier to move things in between desktops. Also 11.04, I have found does not like when you mess with compiz settings to tweak the GUI.
I don't think that I've ever crashed 10.10; 11.04 has crashed 5 or 6 times in the last month that I've had it. If you ask me Unity tries to much to be like a OSX-win7 hybrid, and it's not all that great right now, it's way too hard to open up two different windows of some things on the same desktop. Although Unity does look pretty. I like the panels in 10.10 much better also.
So, I would say 10.10 if you need to get work/homework done on that computer, but if you want to live on the edge, 11.04 is a change of pace.

---

### Post by unapendeza on 2011-06-07
> **PapaGary said:**
> Okay, here's the opinion of a newbie (FWIW):

I had been playing with various flavors of Linux for years (Puppy, Mandrake, Red Hat) but none of them lasted very long on my laptop. Last year I purchased a marginally functioning Dell laptop and after getting it to work with XP Pro I decided to install Ubuntu after buying a magazine with a 10.04 CD included. The little Dell loved 10.04 (Everything worked after the install) so earlier this year when I bought a Toshiba laptop I decided to install Ubuntu 10.10 64 bit and eliminate Win 7. It was a disaster. It croaked during the install (USB pen drive) and I gave up and reinstalled WIn 7. Later I decided to give Ubuntu another chance and made a fresh pen drive installer and installed it alongside Win 7. That worked but little else did. The wireless didn't work and it had no sound (strange since the Ubuntu bootup music played). Since a laptop is useless without wireless I decided to come here and figure it out. I played with several options but no joy until one day I fired up my little Dell and saw that Update Manger was announcing that 10.04 was now available. A light went on over my head (Really) and so I fired up the Toshiba, plugged in an ethernet cable, selected update manager, clicked on Update to 11.04 and waited for it to install. When I booted again....A MIRACLE! Every thing worked! I had wireless and sound. I'm a happy man. 

So, the moral of this overly long post is: Start with 10.04. If that works to your satisfaction then stay with it. If not explore other options with 10.10 or even 11.04.

Oh, I like Unity.:D

Maybe you shouldn't have installed 64-bit? I have a Toshiba laptop too and I'm running Windows 7 and 64-bit Ubuntu 11.04 on it and it's not working too well. I think I should switch to 32-bit which works flawlessly on my desktop.

---

### Post by PapaGary on 2011-06-07
> **unapendeza said:**
> Maybe you shouldn't have installed 64-bit? I have a Toshiba laptop too and I'm running Windows 7 and 64-bit Ubuntu 11.04 on it and it's not working too well. I think I should switch to 32-bit which works flawlessly on my desktop.
Huh? I am running 11.04 64 bit and, as I said above, it works flawlessly.

Oh, I see, I showed 10.04 as the upgrade when I really meant Natty 11.04.

Sorry.:-|

---

### Post by susnic on 2011-06-07
hellow guys.....
                   i js installed 11.04...bt im nw kinda screwed....media players keep on thrashing...no fullscreen is working in any player....no sound in vlc....what to do????,,,,,nyone hv any idea???

---

### Post by FormatSeize on 2011-06-07
> **beew said:**
> Unless 10.10 doesn't work with some of your hardware I would go for 10.10. It is fast and stable. I see no advantage of 11.04 so far. It is quite buggy to say the least as you can see from all the threads on the forum. It is still beta software.

I'm going to put my two cents in and say that I completely agree with this. I'm sure that 11.04 (is there going to be an 11.10?) will come around and shape up, but for a new machine, personally, I would go with 10.10.
 
> **susnic said:**
> hellow guys.....
i js installed 11.04...bt im nw kinda screwed....media players keep on thrashing...no fullscreen is working in any player....no sound in vlc....what to do????,,,,,nyone hv any idea???
Install 10.10 instead. And is 11.04 taking over your keyboard somehow?

---

### Post by I2k4 on 2011-06-07
The existence of this thread with so many responses speaks for itself:  11.04 obviously took a lot of work to make, but is less than an overwhelming smash triumph.  My experience was a) I don't like Unity, and b) definite performance hit on my netbook, therefore, back to Lubuntu 10.10.

I'm tending to think Canonical is experimenting with "eye candy" at the expense of processing efficiency, banking on users with recent hardware, and banking on some interest in Operating Systems as emotional attractions rather than as purely functional platforms that are less interesting than the cement footings of your house.  This was the Microsoft strategy after XP - big hardware specs, big glassy interface, little interest.

---

### Post by dunderbamse on 2011-06-08
> **I2k4 said:**
> The existence of this thread with so many responses speaks for itself:  11.04 obviously took a lot of work to make, but is less than an overwhelming smash triumph.  My experience was a) I don't like Unity, and b) definite performance hit on my netbook, therefore, back to Lubuntu 10.10.

I'm tending to think Canonical is experimenting with "eye candy" at the expense of processing efficiency, banking on users with recent hardware, and banking on some interest in Operating Systems as emotional attractions rather than as purely functional platforms that are less interesting than the cement footings of your house.  This was the Microsoft strategy after XP - big hardware specs, big glassy interface, little interest.


This worries me, if they put more focus on style than performance I think they have lost the whole purpose of Linux.

---

### Post by Scott Deagan on 2011-11-07
I'd say 10.10. I have three computers, all running nVidia cards, and the graphics is glitchy on 11.04 and 11.10. Things start off buttery smooth, but then lagginess and 'stuttering' (for want of a better word) take hold, and the user experience goes down hill. I like the GUI and the dash, love where they're going with Unity (i.e. mobile devices), but until the UI is fluidness is flawless, users won't completely enjoy the experience (it bothers some folks, like me, more than others - same as iPhone UI fluidness and responsiveness vs Android UI lagginess).

I've gone back to 10.10 on my laptop, and have completely fallen in love with Linux (Ubuntu) all over again. I can't believe how much I missed this beauty. I have Emerald theme manager running and have created my own theme, I applied the mouse-polling, nvidia-settings --load-config-only startup, untick auto-detect and manually set refresh rate, and TripleBuffer "workarounds" in order to achieve what is (without doubt) the most responsive and fluid UI ever created for a PC. Everything works, I have shortcuts in the top bar, CPU usage is very low under most conditions, resulting in the laptop being much quieter (sounds like a hair-dryer when running Ubuntu 11.04, 11.10, or Windows 7) which will probably mean my laptop will last longer (I want to keep this baby as long as possible to avoid having to buy into the new UEFI scheme). I also upgraded to the latest stable Linux 3.0 kernel.

I suspect Canonical will not be applying as much 'resources' (i.e. 'love') to desktop OSes any more, so enjoy it while you still can!

Ubuntu 10.10 FTW!!!!!!!!!

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-11-07
> **Scott Deagan said:**
> Ubuntu 10.10 FTW!!!!!!!!!

Five-month bump FTL.

---

### Post by BBQdave on 2011-11-07
> **SapientShell said:**
> As soon as a I get my new computer I'm gonna run Ubuntu, but which version should I go for? I have 10.10 ready to go but 11.04 is the newest. From what I've seen on this forum and read in reviews 11.04 has yet to be stabilized with bugfixes and what-not. So which version should I go for? 11.04 or stick with 10.10?

You could ride out Ubuntu 10.10 until Ubuntu 12.04LTS.  You could then see how Ubuntu 12.04LTS works on your new hardware, and if it works well, you have a LTS distro :)

If you like Ubuntu 10.10 desktop environment, then check out **Debian6**.  A great stable distro with support for a good while, and Gnome 2.30.2 desktop environment (similar to Ubuntu 10.10).

[**Debian6**]("http://www.debian.org/") takes a little extra to set up, but is well worth it! :D

---

