---
title: "Fat32"
date: 2013-12-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by schmitta on 2013-12-16
If I plug in a fat32 formatted SD card into a PC running Ubuntu will Ubuntu be able to read it? Thank you. Alvin...

---

### Post by andyfied on 2013-12-16
It should be able to. i won't do any harm if it can't. Let us know if it doesn't work.

---

### Post by Random-penguin on 2013-12-16
You will have no problem reading / writing to it. The only issue may be the permissions side of things. If that is a problem post back.

---

### Post by conversationjames on 2014-01-02
FAT32 is recommended actually. I had an exFAT USB stick that I couldn't install Ubuntu from and it says to change to FAT32. (I was even able to get my Ubuntu OS to support exFAT after installing a few things)

---

### Post by mruiz408 on 2014-01-02
Yes

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-01-02
I have used flash drives from camera for years with a multi-version USB card reader without issue.

But then son-in-law took a lot of Christmas photos & I wanted to copy to my system. Desktop would not read his card, first thought it might be exfat, but it was FAT32. And then my son's Mac would not read card either. The only difference I could see was that it was both larger 16GB and HC labeled. Son-in-law bought new multi-card reader and it worked on son's Mac, but still did not work on my desktop.
But laptop from 2006 has card reader built in and both XP and 12.04 read that card without issue.

---

### Post by newb85 on 2014-01-02
How large are the pics and videos your son took?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-01-02
They were all about 3 or 4MB. My camera ends up at about 2 to 3MB.

---

### Post by chkneater on 2014-01-02
Can you set the camera to store them as NTFS instead of FAT32?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-01-02
Camera's almost always only use FAT32. But it is not an issues as my old laptop did work and my son-in-law uses the Mac.

---

