---
title: "8.10 Google Earth graphical bug..."
date: 2008-11-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mingle on 2008-11-04
Hi,

I have a clean install of 8.10 on a HP D530 desktop P4, 512MB, Intel 82865G gfx chipset.

I've just installed Google Earth (4.3.7284.3916 beta) and have noticed an annoying graphical bug - the status bar at the bottom of the Google Earth window, which usually shows the co-ordinates, altitude, dat, time, etc now only shows a few of the characters and these flash on and off as I move around...

This issue also affects my clean install of 8.10 on a Compaq Evo 510 desktop (P4, 512MB, Intel 82845G GFX) also.

On my old Ubuntu 8.04 install this bug wasn't present.

I've run into quite a few issues with 8.10 - all of which are graphical problems (wrong screen modes selected during install, conflicts with Compiz and my GFX chipset, etc).

From the forums it seems that quite a few others are having similar issues...

Just wondering if anyone else has the same issues with Google earth?

Cheers,

Mike.

---

### Post by quercusrobur on 2008-11-04
Yes I have the same problem as yuo describe with Googleearth since upgrading to 8.10

---

### Post by mingle on 2008-11-04
Phew, I'm glad it's not just me!

@quercusrobur - what GFX card do you have?

I must say, I'm pretty disappointed with the number of problems I've hit with 8.10, I was really looking forward to it, but it looks like I may have to go to 8.04 instead...

And I've done CLEAN installs - I feel sorry for those who've upgraded there 7.10 & 8.04 systems and broken them! :-(

Cheers,

Mike.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-11-04
Just installed 4.3 and have not got this. Clean install Intrepid. Maybe it's a graphics driver or compiz issue. I have the cube on too.

---

### Post by aktiwers on 2008-11-04
I think this only happens when you have Desktop effects enabled?

---

### Post by mingle on 2008-11-04
Hi Phil,

I think you're right...

There were some know issues with the Intel GFX drivers, but it looks like they haven't been fixed and something in 8.10 has really made matters worse...

Hopefully they can be fixed, but in the meantime, I'll have to stick with 8.04!

Cheers,

Mike

---

### Post by mingle on 2008-11-04
@aktiwers,

I thought that initially, but I've turned all effects off and uninstalled Compiz and the bug is still there...

Cheers,

Mike.

---

### Post by jaret on 2008-11-05
Me too, GE was working fine in 8.04, i switched a friend's laptop with great joy to 8.10 but it saddens me that it has come to this. Actually I don't use google earth, but my friends likes it a lot, that's why i'll have to switch his ubuntu back to 8.04.

Where can the bug be reported? Will they ever fix it?

*NOTE: It worked slowly when i turned compiz off, but it worked. Still ubuntu without compiz isn't very attractive.

---

### Post by mingle on 2008-11-06
Yes, it's a real pain...

All of the on-screen fonts (in the status bar and for other things such as bookmarks) are either missing or corrupt.

I've tried setting the 3D fonts to different ones, but it makes no difference.

It is likely related to GFX drivers - which 99% of my problems seem to be! The older Intel chipsets 82845G/82865G seem to have a number of issues with 8.10...

We can only hope that someone is going to have a go at fixing them!

Cheers,

Mike.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-11-06
I'm having the same issue, I'm sure someone has filed a bug report.

---

### Post by mingle on 2008-11-06
@Codename,

I take it from your sig, that you're not using an Intel-based GFX card and your still hitting this Googlr earth bug?

Cheers,

Mike.

---

### Post by davidsrsb on 2008-11-09
I could not find an active bugzilla report for this, the nearest was
[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+question/47873](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+question/47873)
which was "solved"

---

### Post by Francewhoa on 2010-03-21
Same here. Default fonts are too small in Google Earth 5. **The following worked for me.** [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9004685#post9004685](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9004685#post9004685)

---

