---
title: "8.04 help i broke my ubuntu    ugent !!!"
date: 2009-01-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by blake7 on 2009-01-14
help
yester day i was trying to down load gimp 2.6, i read that i had to delete the old gimp
so i went in to the package that lets you deletes programs(i think it called sympackes) typed in gimp and delted all that came up.
now my lap top does not work properly it will not load the dest top i get this istead


starting up
loading please wait

kinit: name-to-devt(/dev/disk/   ((ect ect ect if you need     the     whole line please tellme))

kinit:trying to resume from  (/dev/disk/  ((ect ect ect if you need     the     whole line please tellme))



kinit: no resume iamage, doing normal boot

ubuntu 8.4.1 a-laptop tty1

a-laptop login



arrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr what has happened and have i lost all  arrrrr

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2009-01-14
You can try this:  :P

Reboot > during grub splash, hit escape > Recovery mode > Enter (let finish)
Repair Broken Packages > Enter (if it asks about updates hit N) (let finish)
Try to fix X server > Enter (Let finish)
Resume normal Boot > Enter

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2009-01-14
> so i went in to the package that lets you deletes programs(i think it called sympackes) typed in gimp and delted all that came up.

wow.

What exactly did you delete? Can you remember some of the packages?

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-01-14
> **gettinoriginal said:**
> You can try this:  :P

Reboot > during grub splash, hit escape > Recovery mode > Enter (let finish)
Repair Broken Packages > Enter (if it asks about updates hit N) (let finish)
Try to fix X server > Enter (Let finish)
Resume normal Boot > Enter

Or if you can get to terminal (using Recovery Mode) or maybe pressing Alt+F2 what you need to do is run from terminal:

```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall ubuntu-desktop
```

Removing gimp also removes ubuntu-desktop!

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-01-14
> **Michael.Godawski said:**
> wow.

What exactly did you delete? Can you remember some of the packages?

One screenshot tells it all:

[ATTACH]99811[/ATTACH]

When I mark gimp for removal it says it's going to remove the whole desktop!

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2009-01-14
boot into recovery mode an select root terminal.  run:
> sudo aptitude install ubuntu-desktop
reboot

---

### Post by jakupl on 2009-01-14
Don't worry. I have done the same thing before, and got it working again easily.
Just boot into recovery mode, probably by pressing esc. when the computer is starting up.
Then a blue screen appears with some options. Choose "Drop to root shell prompt"

and run the command

```
apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

then you will see a lot of gibberish. When it is installed, do
```
reboot 
```
to reboot.

---

### Post by benny bronx on 2009-01-14
Removing Ubuntu-desktop should not render your system inoperative.  It is just a package that pulls in all the dependencies for the desktop, and may be removed if you are not planning on doing an upgrade.

---

### Post by blake7 on 2009-01-21
kinit: no resume, doing normal boot...

ubuntu 8.04.1 a-laptop tty1
a-laptop login:



but it does not load the destop screen, just a ternamel like screen

---

### Post by RequinB4 on 2009-01-21
At that screen, login (enter your username and then pw.  the pw will not show up on the screen).

Then, try the following:

```

startx

```

```

/etc/init.d/gdm start

```

Removing the ubuntu-desktop package will not break your system.  That is not the problem.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-01-21
Duplicate and current thread [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1046246")
Thread closed :)

---

