---
title: "12.10 64-bit can't install handbrake"
date: 2012-11-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2012-11-25
If I don't ask about the encryption stuff, I think I'm still ok asking this here.

I have 64-bit quantal installed, and would like to install handbrake with the gui interface.  I found a wiki which showed how to add the key - did that, and tried to install handbrake-gui - no such package.

I then followed a post in the forums for installing the deb http in the sources.list file, opened synaptic package manager, and only the 386 version shows, and when you mark it synaptic then wants to install a lot of 386 packages. 

So, no handbrake that I could find for 64-bit.

Any pointers on how to get this in the 64-bit version?  In previous releases I didn't have this problem.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-11-25
As far as I know, handbrake is not in the official repositories, but there is a ppa available:

[https://launchpad.net/~stebbins/+archive/handbrake-releases](https://launchpad.net/~stebbins/+archive/handbrake-releases)

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-11-25
Thanks - that was what I tried (the wiki pointed to it) that didn't work - you try to do a apt-get update and it fails.

Handbrake is showing in my packages in synaptic, even before I added the deb http line for stebbins, but it's only the 386 version.  

EDIT:  it fails saying no public key, even though I went through the add of the repository and key as per the instructions.

---

### Post by bryanl on 2012-11-25
re "install handbrake-gui"

try to install handbrake-**gtk**

note that it is **gtk** and not **gui** at the end

it's also a good idea to have installed ubuntu-restricted-extras and then run /usr/share/doc/libdvdread4/install.sh

you can find out more about handbreak-gtk and ubuntu-restricted-extras with an I'net search.

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-11-25
Bingo!  Thanks bryanl !! ;)

---

