---
title: "60hz in ubuntu"
date: 2008-07-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by watnazn on 2008-07-12
I was just wondering if there was a way to make it so my monitor has a 60hz refresh rate in Ubuntu, because when go to system>preferences>screen resolution, its at 50hz, and the highest i can make it is 52hz, and my monitor is always asking for 60hz. I have a 1440x 900 monitor.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2008-07-12
Go in the OSD of your monitor and look for the signal information. I'd bet a lot of money it will say 60 Hz. Refresh rates are absolutely meaningless on a LCD monitor.

---

### Post by watnazn on 2008-07-12
No, there is no refresh rate in the osd menu, just language, h-position, v-position, transparency, and display time. The reason, I am trying to change it, is because youtube videos that I watch, are chopped, like sometimes, if you look at the tv with a camera, and the refresh is different. Also, when i try playing counter strike source, my monitor says it recommends 60hz, and its really laggy, when i try to move the mouse.
thanks for the reply though.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2008-07-12
> **watnazn said:**
> No, there is no refresh rate in the osd menu, just language, h-position, v-position, transparency, and display time. The reason, I am trying to change it, is because youtube videos that I watch, are chopped, like sometimes, if you look at the tv with a camera, and the refresh is different. Also, when i try playing counter strike source, my monitor says it recommends 60hz, and its really laggy, when i try to move the mouse.
thanks for the reply though.

Okay, so you must have a very unusual monitor. Mine says 60 Hz and everything works fine even though X says 50 Hz... Anyway, we need a bit more info then. Tell us what your graphics card is, and paste the contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf.

---

### Post by watnazn on 2008-07-12
I have a nvidia 6200 over clocked graphics card. Also, my /etc/X11/xorg.conf is blank.

---

### Post by BGFG on 2008-07-12
Hey i have a dell system 17 inch lcd. max refresh rate is also 60hz. 
I have the 
NVIDIA binary XFree86 4.x/X.Org 'new' driver
NVIDIA X Server Settings

As well as the relevant 'third party drivers' installed. Once i adjust the refresh rate through the Nvidia X-server settings and save it to my x configuration file, I can have the max 1400 by 900 res and refresh at 60 hz.
Even at 59 hz my desktop looks jagged.

---

### Post by watnazn on 2008-07-12
What should i search in synaptic to get the x server?

---

### Post by BGFG on 2008-07-12
Actually i used add-remove it's under system tools.
but gimme a sec and ill find it in synaptic....

These are my packages:

xserver-Xorg-video-nv
nvidia-settings
nvidia-kernel-common
nvidia-glx-new

NB. i had a problem with my machine not saving x-server settings, so every time i re-booted i had to launch my nvidia server settings and reset my refresh rate to 60 hz. So if for some reason when you edit:
'X server display configuration' and you choose to save your settings to the x config file it gives you an error, you can hit the show preview button, then copy the contents of the window then:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

and manually paste your settings into the file. Not pretty, but now my stuff is sorted.

---

### Post by watnazn on 2008-07-12
Never mind, it isn't blank, i typed the wrong thing in terminal, thank you bgfg, im just trying to find a way easier way, because it is just a monitor refresh rate.

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by BGFG on 2008-07-12
I get what you mean, but don't you at least have the Nvidia-xserver settings package ?
It'll give you a lot of functionality with your nvidia card and give you direct control over it. Like i said Applications>>add remove>>System tools and you should find it.

---

### Post by watnazn on 2008-07-12
yea, i looked before, and i couldn't find it, is it called exactly nvidia-xserver? Because i already have nvidia binary x.org driver new driver), and hardware drivers when i typed nvidia in add/remove. If that is it, how do i access the settings, thanks for helping.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-07-12
> Never mind, it isn't blank, i typed the wrong thing in terminal....

That is why it is best to copy and paste commands into the terminal.  (Yes, I have done the same thing too.)

---

### Post by watnazn on 2008-07-12
Lol

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2008-07-13
First, backup your file in case something goes wrong :

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```

Then

```
gksudo gedit  /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Look for that part :

```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection
```

Change it into :

```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
        SubSection     "Display"
                Depth       24
                Modes      "1440x900_60"
        EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Also, you might need to enter the sync rates for your monitonr, for example mine says :

```
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

```

**Don't** just copy those values, look for the correct ones in your monitor's documentation.

Save the file and restart X to apply your changes (Ctrl+Alt+Backspace).

---

### Post by nowshining on 2008-07-13
logout of all apps first, then at the login screen press ctrl+alt+backspace.

---

