---
title: "10.04 and Actiontec wireless"
date: 2010-07-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-12
I just installed 10.04 on an older Dell Inspiron 8100 that has no internal wireless card.

When it was running XP I used an Actiontec 802ctg wireless card to connect to my Actiontec Qwest DSL wireless modem.

Ubuntu 10.04 does not see this card and apparently has no drivers for it. 

I have searched Google and cannot find a solution after many hours looking. I did find a few things that might work but am afraid to try something and not know how to undo it. <g>

Does anyone have any knowledge on how to get this card working? Or maybe suggestions on a replacement card that will connect to my wireless DSL modem and other hotshots such as hotels and coffee shops?

Thanks for any help in advance. Bob.

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-13
Really, I know nothing about which wireless cards will work with 10.04 and need help.

I also do not know what card I need to connect to these wireless networks.

Is there a list somewhere of supported cards for 10.04?

I am not looking for a specific recommendation. Maybe someone bought one that works and would share that information?

Thanks in advance. Bob.

---

### Post by bkratz on 2010-07-13
Here is the wireless supported page--not distinctly for 10.04, but better than nothing.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessCardsSupported](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessCardsSupported)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-07-13
Is this the PCMCIA card version, or is it another type?

I don't know if there are any native Linux drivers for that adapter.  However, if you have the LiveCD you installed from, we can try to get it working with the Windows drivers.

So, first locate the Windows XP driver files for your adapter (the .inf and .sys files).  Copy those to your Ubuntu desktop folder.

Once you have located those and copied them, post back and we'll go through the steps to get you going from there.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-13
Unforuntely I formatted the HD when I installed 10.04.

I do have the Windows drivers install CD. I looked for .inf and .sys files on the CD but only find .cab files.

Yes this is the PCMCIA card version

I am willing to buy a new one if I knew what works in 10.04.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-07-14
It may take me a little while, as I'm not on here as much as I used to be, but I'll try to get things together for you and then I'll post back.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-14
Thanks, I really stepped into it this time as I didn't do my research before the install. <g>

My someone could tell me about a good experience with a PCMCIA wireless card in 10.04?

Bob.

---

### Post by NoBugs! on 2010-07-14
Here's a list of what wifi devices work/don't work:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessCardsSupported](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessCardsSupported)

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-14
Thanks for the information. That is a little hard to wade through as I see no search feature to find 10.04 compatible cards.

Bob.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-07-14
The 2 attachments are the files supposedly needed as the Windows driver.  I had to zip them so I could attach them - you should be able to unzip them fine - if not, let me know.

- Copy both of these files to your desktop.

- Place the LiveCD in your CD drive (don't boot it - just load it while Ubuntu is running).  If a message comes up about a CD being found with software packages on it, just cancel it.

- Using the file navigator ("Places"):

-- Go to the /pool/main/n folder on the CD.  There should be 2 folders there - 1 for ndisgtk and 1 for ndiswrapper. 

-- Go to the ndiswrapper folder.  There should be 2 files there - 1 for ndiswrapper common and 1 for ndiswrapper utilities.

-- Click on the ndiswrapper common file to start its' installation.  Wait for it to finish.

-- Click on the ndiswrapper utilities file to start its' installation.  Wait for it to finish.

-- Go back 1 level to the /pool/main/n folder.

-- Go to the ndisgtk folder.  There should be 1 file there for ndisgtk.

-- Click on the ndisgtk file to start its' installation.  Wait for it to finish.

- Close the file navigator.

- Go to System/Administration/Windows Network Drivers (I think that's what it's called - I'm in Windows right now).  This should start up ndisgtk, the GUI'd front end to ndiswrapper.

- Click Add, then point it to your desktop and the aeiwlctg.inf file (remember that Linux is case sensitive, to it may be AEIWLCTG.INF).  It should add in your adapter and show it in the list.  Exit the GUI.

- If you have a hard-wired connection to your router, you must disconnect that cable first.

- Right-click on the network manager icon and be sure "Enable Wireless" is checked.

- Now just click on the network manager icon and see if you can see wireless networks now.


Dave ;)

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-15
Wow! great instructions! Thanks. But.........

All went well and I was able to add the one file from my desktop to the now created system/administration/Windows Wireless Drivers.

But the wireless card is still not recognized.

Why were there two files that I moved to the desktop when only one was used?

And, really, thanks for all of your help.

Bob.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-07-15
> **bob brazie said:**
> Wow! great instructions! Thanks. But.........

All went well and I was able to add the one file from my desktop to the now created system/administration/Windows Wireless Drivers.

But the wireless card is still not recognized.

I'll have to do some more checking and see if I can find anything.

> 
Why were there two files that I moved to the desktop when only one was used?

Actually, both files were used.  The .inf file sort of describes the device and the .sys file is really the guts of the driver.  The .inf file points to the .sys file, so while you only specify the .inf file, the .sys file is picked up also.
And, really, thanks for all of your help.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-15
Thanks, I really would like to get this machine unwired. Either with this card or another.

Bob.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-07-16
Hummmm.....can't really find anything on getting this working in Linux, even using ndiswrapper as we did.

I normally really hate to even suggest it, but since you have already talked about it, it really might be easier just buying an adapter known to work with Linux.

I know someone already provided the link to the list, and I also know that list isn't as easy as most would hope because it is dealing with chipsets, so you get the same adapter but a different version number and it doesn't work.

If I might suggest it, I think I would mark this thread as solved and then open a new thread with a title something like "Which wireless adapter to buy?".  Since you are using a laptop (least wise with PCMCIA I would assume so), you'll want to mention it in your opening post, including brand and model.  That might eliminate a few extraneous posts.

Sorry I can't help you more.

dave

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-16
Thanks for all of the help though. You went above and beyond.

I just hope that when I post that request it won't sound as if I am asking for a personal recommendation as to what to buy as opposed to what brand not to buy. Just what will work! <g>

Thanks again.

Bob.

---

