---
title: ".MP3 to .MPEG Need help!!"
date: 2009-07-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Lollating on 2009-07-12
Hi,  I need to convert a .MP3 to .MPEG
please help me!!

:p

---

### Post by credobyte on 2009-07-12
```
MPEG - video
MP3 - audio
```

Audio to Video is .. impossible ? :roll:

---

### Post by Lollating on 2009-07-12
Hmm..

sorry close this :s

---

### Post by zerhacke on 2009-07-12
It's not impossible.  Look into a howto for mencoder.

---

### Post by credobyte on 2009-07-12
> **zerhacke said:**
> It's not impossible.  Look into a howto for mencoder.

Don't mind is revealing the secret ? I thought you can't create a video without actually having it :roll:

---

### Post by DGortze380 on 2009-07-12
> **credobyte said:**
> Don't mind is revealing the secret ? I thought you can't create a video without actually having it :roll:

You can certainly create an MPEG (Video File) that contains only an audio track (MP3).

I unfortunately do this on my Mac (way easier), so I don't have any program recommendations for you. But good luck.

---

### Post by vinutux on 2009-07-12
Mp3 is already mpeg ......means Mp3=mpeg layer 3

---

### Post by credobyte on 2009-07-12
> **vinutux said:**
> Mp3 is already mpeg ......means Mp3=mpeg layer 3

Thnx - I'm not very well orientated in media formats :roll: So, converting mp3 to mpeg with ffmpeg would do the job ?

---

### Post by FakeOutdoorsman on 2009-07-12
To do this with FFmpeg:

1. Enable restricted encoders (such as libmp3lame) in FFmpeg:
[HOWTO: Easily enable MP3, MPEG4, AAC, and other restricted encoding in FFmpeg](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1117283) [ubuntuforums.org]

2. The command:
```
ffmpeg -i input.mpeg -acodec libmp3lame -ab 128k -ac 2 output.mp3
```
You can adjust the options as you like.  The *-ab* option is audio bitrate, and *-ac* is number of  audio channels (*1* being mono, *2* generally for stereo).

If you want to convert a large number of files at once, then refer to andrew.46's guide:
[Linux Basics: A gentle introduction to 'find'](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1128937) [ubuntuforums.org]

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-07-12
> **FakeOutdoorsman said:**
> 
1. Enable restricted encoders (such as libmp3lame) in FFmpeg:
[HOWTO: Easily enable MP3, MPEG4, AAC, and other restricted encoding in FFmpeg]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1117283") [ubuntuforums.org]


 Thank you so much for that!

---

### Post by FakeOutdoorsman on 2009-07-12
> **oldos2er said:**
> Thank you so much for that!

Glad I could help.  I knew my video nerdism would come in useful someday.

---

