---
title: "Tew-421???"
date: 2008-09-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by atmu5fear on 2008-09-15
Re: Wireless Drivers 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These were the [instructions]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=201673") I was following. They are for the exact same card as mine.

This was copied off the laptop I'm doing this on:

chris@chris-desktop:~$ sudo apt-get install ndiswrapper-utils
[sudo] password for chris: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree 
Reading state information... Done
Package ndiswrapper-utils is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
is only available from another source
However, the following packages replace it:
ndiswrapper-common
E: Package ndiswrapper-utils has no installation candidate
chris@chris-desktop:~$ sudo apt-get install ndiswrapper-common
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree 
Reading state information... Done
ndiswrapper-common is already the newest version.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
chris@chris-desktop:~$ sudo ndiswrapper
install/manage Windows drivers for ndiswrapper

usage: ndiswrapper OPTION
-i inffile install driver described by 'inffile'
-a devid driver use installed 'driver' for 'devid' (dangerous)
-r driver remove 'driver'
-l list installed drivers
-m write configuration for modprobe
-ma write module alias configuration for all devices
-mi write module install configuration for all devices
-v report version information

where 'devid' is either PCIID or USBID of the form XXXX:XXXX,
as reported by 'lspci -n' or 'lsusb' for the card
chris@chris-desktop:~$ sudo ndiswrapper -i ~chris/net8185.inf
couldn't open /home/chris/net8185.inf: No such file or directory at /usr/sbin/ndiswrapper-1.9 line 219.


I have also tried using ~media/pearl/net8185.inf, /media/pearl/net8185.inf, ~media/cdrom/drivers/winxp/net8185.inf and /media/cdrom/drivers/winxp/net8185.inf, /desktop/net8185.inf, ~desktop/net8185.inf, ~chris/drivers/net8185.inf, /chris/drivers/net8185.inf (all of which are areas that I have copies of this driver)...

The first one (~chris) is the driver that was copied off the cd to my desktop, the second one (~media/pearl, /media/pearl) is the same driver downloaded from trendnet's website and is stored on a usb drive, and the last one (/cdrom) is the cd included with the card. I know I'm doing something wrong, but can't figure out what. Thanks for the help

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-09-15
First off, make sure you copy over both the .inf file and the .sys file and put them on your desktop. Then do:
```
sudo ndiswrapper -i ~/Desktop/*.inf
```
Also I would recommend using the XP wireless driver and not the Vista version, in case you have a choice. If the above works, check it with:
```
ndiswrapper -l
```
And make sure it shows your drivers. Next do:
```
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
```
Then do:
```
sudo iwlist wlan0 scan
```
And see if it returns any networks. If you have any problems, please post the exact output you get from the above commands. Let me know how it goes.

---

### Post by atmu5fear on 2008-09-17
Thanks for the help. 



chris@chris-desktop:~$ sudo ndiswrapper -i ~/Desktop/net8185.inf
couldn't find SourceDisksFiles section - continuing anyway...
installing net8185 ...
couldn't get manufacturer section - installation may be incomplete
chris@chris-desktop:~$ ndiswrapper -l
net8185 : invalid driver!
chris@chris-desktop:~$ sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
chris@chris-desktop:~$ sudo iwlist wlan0 scan
wlan0     Interface doesn't support scanning.

chris@chris-desktop:~$ sudo ndiswrapper -i ~/Desktop/net8185.inf
driver net8185 is already installed

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-09-17
OK, so first of all, you are sure you have both the .sys and .inf files on your desktop right now? If so, proceed with:
```
cd ~/Desktop
sudo ndiswrapper -r net8185
sudo ndiswrapper -i net8185.inf
ndiswrapper -l
```
And post the results.

---

### Post by atmu5fear on 2008-09-17
Yes I'm sure I have both the .inf, and .sys files on my desktop, but this seems to have worked...


chris@chris-desktop:~$ cd ~/Desktop
chris@chris-desktop:~/Desktop$ sudo ndiswrapper -r net8185
chris@chris-desktop:~/Desktop$ sudo ndiswrapper -i net8185.inf
installing net8185 ...
chris@chris-desktop:~/Desktop$ ndiswrapper -l
net8185 : driver installed
	device (10EC:8185) present

thanks a lot for the quick response, i do appreciate it, but I'm totally new to Linux so where do I got from here. Follow the same steps you already posted? I'll try that, and if there's more please post so I don't get totally lost. Thanks

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-09-17
You should be able to left-click on the network icon on the top right and see any available networks. If you have a problem connecting to your router, disable wep/wap until you have a solid connection. Then enable wep/wap.

Oops I see you are using xubuntu, it should be the same except for the network icon location.

Jim

---

### Post by atmu5fear on 2008-09-17
Yea, I managed to get it figured out, thanks to you of course. I appreciate your help, thanks.

---

