---
title: "8.04 installed as dual boot, but don't get option to select Ubuntu on boot"
date: 2008-07-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by oncable on 2008-07-02
I managed to get Ubuntu installed after great difficulty because it didn't recognize my graphics card (Asus AX-800, a standard ATI clone). It has created a separate partition and installed itself there. After installation completed it asked me to remove the cd and reboot, which I did. WHen it rebooted Windows XP said a change has been made to my system settings, I will have to reboot for changes to take effect. So I rebooted again. Nowhere did Ubuntu enter the picture. Now it just boots normally into Windows XP, no option to select Ubuntu. The Linux partition ("unrecognized" in Windows Disk Management) is still there, but how do I get to it? 
Will I have to re-install Ubuntu?

---

### Post by metacognition on 2008-07-02
I'm not sure, but I think you're supposed to have Ubuntu as the main OS, then install XP on a partition. That way, you should have the GRUB menu and be able to select Ubuntu or XP. Somebody should verify this or correct this, so don't try it unless you're ready to risk your data.

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-07-02
It sounds like you didn't install grub, or grub failed to install to the mbr. 
I believe there is an option to reinstall grub from the install cd-try that.

You don't need to reinstall just reinstall grub.
After a successful install grub is the bootloader you should see unless you chose not to install it.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2008-07-02
It looks like something went wrong with GRUB boot loader. You won't have to reinstall the whole thing, just GRUB. Try booting using your live CD, boot from HDD option to verify Ubuntu is installed and working.[How to Reinstall GRUB]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351")

---

### Post by sayakb on 2008-07-02
Check out [Supergrub disk]("http://ubuntuforums.org/www.supergrubdisk.org/") for making changes to GRUB.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-07-02
If you manually adjust your partitions in the Ubuntu install there is a screen somewhere along there that has  little box marked advanced or something. If you don't click on that and tell it to make a grub, you will not get grub installed.

I know this is pretty obscure but I did my last install months ago and don't remember exactly where everything happened but that is the gist of it.

---

