---
title: "[SOLVED] Screen Resolution"
date: 2008-06-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Flash Gordon on 2008-06-09
Hello,
I use my 32" television as a monitor and was frustrated by the fact that while very clear, some of the GUI was lying just outside the edge of the screen. I tried fixing it by lowering the resolution and lost the signal because the TV supposedly doesn't support widths under 768. BUT... I hooked the machine up to a small moniter to see if I could fix this problem. I was able to see graphic so I plugged the machine back into my TV. Now the centering problem looks to be alleviated but the resolution is stuck at 800x600. The GUI preferences only display that 8x6 is the highest but obviously this is incorrect. How do I manually change the resolution and ensure that the GUI stays centered? I know enough cmd line to navigate but am a novice as far as anything else stands.

---

### Post by macness on 2008-06-09
what kind of television do you have?

Does it have an autofix setting (I have to do this with my monitor EVERY time a new computer gets hooked up to it, but then it works)

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-06-09
You could manually change your screen resolution using System->Preferences->Screen Resolution. But, for any reason you're stuck on just the 800x600, post you're xorg.conf file for us to check.

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by Flash Gordon on 2008-06-09
Here is my .conf log

tim@tim-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"US"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes   "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

I also ran the auto adjust on the TV hoping that it would return the resolution to 13x7 but it did not work.

---

### Post by macness on 2008-06-09
What happens when you try to edit the resolution under preferences>screen resolution? Can you choose another?

You may want to run 

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

and run through the wizard to see if you can add resolutions.

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-06-09
Backup your current xorg.conf file:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.original
```

Open your current xorg.conf file for editing:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Select all the text in your current xorg.conf file and delete it. Replace it with the edited version below. Save your file and restart GDM.

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver "kbd"
	Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option "XkbModel" "pc104"
	Option "XkbLayout" "US"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier "Configured Mouse"
	Driver "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier "Configured Video Device"
	Driver "vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier "Configured Monitor"
	HorizSync 30-110
	VertRefresh 50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor "Configured Monitor"
        DefaultDepth 24
        SubSection "Display"
        Depth 24
        Modes "1280x1024"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier "Default Layout"
	Screen "Default Screen"
EndSection


```

---

### Post by Flash Gordon on 2008-06-09
The main problem is that the only GUI preferences available are 8x6 or lower. I will try your second option and reply after.

---

### Post by Flash Gordon on 2008-06-09
I tried that edited .conf and my display disappeared altogether again.(I am in fact writing this post from my laptop now) I blame it on the width as 1024. Im assuming that 768 will be the best choice as that is where it was set before any problems began. I will have to bring a moniter home tomorrow from work to get a display back. Were the only changes made to the .conf the resolution numbers? If so can I just edit your previous post to say "1280x768" ? If there were other changes could you please send another edited version?
Thanks

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-06-09
> **Flash Gordon said:**
> I tried that edited .conf and my display disappeared altogether again.(I am in fact writing this post from my laptop now) I blame it on the width as 1024. Im assuming that 768 will be the best choice as that is where it was set before any problems began. I will have to bring a moniter home tomorrow from work to get a display back. Were the only changes made to the .conf the resolution numbers? If so can I just edit your previous post to say "1280x768" ? If there were other changes could you please send another edited version?
Thanks

Try changing it first to 1024x768 mode before going to a higher resolution. Boot on your restore mode option.

---

### Post by Flash Gordon on 2008-06-10
Problem solved, thanks for all your help. My next project is to set up a remote in so if i screw anything up again i don't have to move anything to fix it.(Its a pain unplugging a bunch of KVM wires all the time) =-)   so I might be posting about that later./

---

### Post by brennydoogles on 2008-06-10
> **Flash Gordon said:**
> Problem solved, thanks for all your help. My next project is to set up a remote in so if i screw anything up again i don't have to move anything to fix it.(Its a pain unplugging a bunch of KVM wires all the time) =-)   so I might be posting about that later./

Not to hijack the thread, but are you having a hard time reading the text with such a huge resolution?? I have the same setup, and I  can't sit on my couch with my keyboard/mouse because I can't read the text!! Any suggestions would be great!!

---

### Post by macness on 2008-06-10
> **Flash Gordon said:**
> Problem solved, thanks for all your help. My next project is to set up a remote in so if i screw anything up again i don't have to move anything to fix it.(Its a pain unplugging a bunch of KVM wires all the time) =-)   so I might be posting about that later./

Should be another thread for this but im just gonna drop some names...

SSH! + NX CLIENT! ([www.nomachine.com](www.nomachine.com)) = REMOTING GOODNESS!

Also you should mark this thread as [Solved]

---

### Post by Flash Gordon on 2008-06-10
> **brennydoogles said:**
> Not to hijack the thread, but are you having a hard time reading the text with such a huge resolution?? I have the same setup, and I  can't sit on my couch with my keyboard/mouse because I can't read the text!! Any suggestions would be great!!

Yes in fact... If you have a three button mouse(maybe it works with all mice?) you can hold control and either scroll up or down with the center click wheel to minimize or maximize browser text. As far as the rest of your machine I would just make the menu bar more pixels...(right click and then properties) everything else like terminal i just maximized to fill the screen; and go to System > Preferences > Appearance then Fonts to enlarge menu and other navigation text.

---

