---
title: ".bashrc problem"
date: 2008-11-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by forsumitonly on 2008-11-06
Hi,

I am new to Ubuntu, I hope some one is able to resolve my problem. I am trying write the following commands in my home directory and it gives me the following error.

source .bashrc
bash: oa: command not found

Can some one please help me with this???

Thanks,
Sumit:confused:

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-11-06
open a terminal and type "gedit .bashrc" search for 'oa' and remove that. its just a typo you have in your .bashrc file and cant be read as a valid command.

---

### Post by forsumitonly on 2008-11-06
Well thanks for the response but I have looked twice and then again there is no type in the .bashrc file. The last line of the file is

source /home/sumit/OpenFOAM/OpenFOAM-1.5/etc/bashrc

If I don't have this in the file then the source commands works just fine.

I wonder why?

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-11-06
is there a typo in /home/sumit/OpenFOAM/OpenFOAM-1.5/etc/bashrc then?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-11-06
I've done some snooping around. The line you are questioning is indeed listed on the OpenFoam install page exactly as you have entered it above. However, it makes no sense. 

I found another installation page that says to edit ~/.bashrc and make the following entry:
```

 . ~/OpenFOAM/OpenFOAM-1.4.1/.OpenFOAM-1.4/bashrc

```

Here is the link to the page I found:
[http://www.opencfd.co.uk/openfoam/doc/README.html]("http://www.opencfd.co.uk/openfoam/doc/README.html")

There is an entry like the one you mentioned, but it is put in ~/.profile and is for compilation purposes. My suggestion is to remove or comment out ( put a # symbol in front of the existing line ) and take a look at the page I link to.

---

