---
title: "[SOLVED] 2.6.24-21 update video problems"
date: 2008-10-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by whitethorn on 2008-10-15
I have a ATI Mobility Radeon 9600, I updated the new kernel today and realized I couldn't use mplayer anymore.  I then used xvinfo to see if the module was loaded and it wasn't.  I then checked out glxinfo and Direct Rendering doesn't work either.  

Is there a big difference between 2.6.24-21 and -19?  Right now I've booted back into -19 and xv and dri is enabled.  I guess I'm just wondering why it doesn't work with the new kernel.  Here's my xorg.conf.

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "dbe"
	Load  "dri"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver      "synaptics"
	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
	Option	    "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "on"
	Option      "TexturedVideo" "off"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection


---

### Post by Nxion on 2008-10-15
It sounds like to me that the driver for your video card needs to be upgraded. Are you running Hardy or Intrepid? I have had this happen to me before. I would have to reload the driver for my wireless every time I upgraded the kernel.

---

### Post by whitethorn on 2008-10-15
I'm using Hardy, I'm not really sure how I'd upgrade the driver. I installed the latest drivers from ati last week.

---

### Post by jbrown96 on 2008-10-15
The restricted drivers that Ubuntu provides automatically update on kernel upgrades, but the drivers from ATI's website must be reinstalled each time. I would definately recommend sticky with the newest drivers because they are improving so quickly. Keep your eyes peeled for the 8.10 drivers that are coming out this month. They are supposed to support UVD2, which will greatly improve video playback.

---

### Post by whitethorn on 2008-10-15
> **jbrown96 said:**
> The restricted drivers that Ubuntu provides automatically update on kernel upgrades, but the drivers from ATI's website must be reinstalled each time. I would definately recommend sticky with the newest drivers because they are improving so quickly. Keep your eyes peeled for the 8.10 drivers that are coming out this month. They are supposed to support UVD2, which will greatly improve video playback.

I'll make sure to keep an eye out for the new drivers.  I guess I'll start up the new kernel and reinstall the drivers. hope it works.

---

### Post by whitethorn on 2008-10-15
I just tried installing the latest drivers, 8.10 they came out yesterday.  When I try to run aticonfig --initial -i /etc/ ..   I get a segmentation fault error.  Right now I'm in low graphics mode, just uninstalled the lastest drivers and downloaded 8.9.  Maybe these will work.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-10-15
The problem with the update was that it was unable to load the fglrx kernel modules. You can fix this from safe mode by going to wherever you saved the modules from the driver package and dpkg the kernel module. Reboot and it should be working again.

The 8.10 driver is available now, but no release notes yet.

EDIT:
This is a common problem with proprietary drivers from nvidia and ati, especially if you have not removed previous drivers.

---

### Post by whitethorn on 2008-10-15
> **markbuntu said:**
> The problem with the update was that it was unable to load the fglrx kernel modules. You can fix this from safe mode by going to wherever you saved the modules from the driver package and dpkg the kernel module. Reboot and it should be working again.

The 8.10 driver is available now, but no release notes yet.

EDIT:
This is a common problem with proprietary drivers from nvidia and ati, especially if you have not removed previous drivers.

How would I go about doing that?  I let it do an automatic install so I'm not really sure where it saved the modules. I tried 8.9 and it worked kinda (my resolution was back, dri worked, only xv failed to load). I decided to try 8.10 again, uninstalled 8.9, installed 8.10 -> aticonfig --initial --input ... segmentation fault.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-10-15
Did you read the release notes for the 8.10 driver?

No, you did not because they are not yet available. You should never install something like that without reading the release notes.


Anyway, your best be would be to remove the driver and then reinstall the 8.9 driver using this guide here:

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide)

---

### Post by whitethorn on 2008-10-15
I noticed that there weren't any Release Notes, I just thought it should still be possible to install the new drivers.  I've installed 8.9 and now everything works. Thanx for the help.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-10-16
Without knowing what is going on with a new driver it is all guesswork as to what will happen when you install it. Many people do not care, I try to be more cautious.

---

