---
title: ".Trash problem"
date: 2008-07-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mokkai on 2008-07-05
i have a folder "/backup" in my system and i have some file inside that

if i delete any file/folder from anywhere in my system, the deleted file/folder is going to Trash 

but if i open "/backup" folder in my system then the deleted file/folder
are visible in that( means whatever file i deleted will be shown in Trash & "/backup" folder in my system)

if i empty the trash  then all files which are in "/backup" folder also deleted

what is actually going?
any idea ?

---

### Post by NikS on 2008-07-05
I dint find this /backup folder in my /!!
Have u installed some backup utility or something??

---

### Post by adamogardner on 2008-07-05
I am quite novice, and have been trying to figure out the file system too.  My experience has been very similar if not the same.  If I delete what would otherwise be called a shortcut icon from my desktop, my computer trashes the whole thing.  So until I get a better understanding of whats going on I move my fresh downloads (which appear on my desktop) to another folder out of the way.

---

### Post by bhavi on 2008-07-05
> **mokkai said:**
> i have a folder "/backup" in my system and i have some file inside that

if i delete any file/folder from anywhere in my system, the deleted file/folder is going to Trash 

but if i open "/backup" folder in my system then the deleted file/folder
are visible in that( means whatever file i deleted will be shown in Trash & "/backup" folder in my system)

if i empty the trash  then all files which are in "/backup" folder also deleted

what is actually going?
any idea ?

Yup thats normal I believe when you have a backup utility like sbackup

---

### Post by 7raTEYdCql on 2008-07-05
The backup utility is probably taking note of the changes that are occurring on your system and those changes are added to your backup folder.

---

### Post by mokkai on 2008-07-06
> **NikS said:**
> I dint find this /backup folder in my /!!
Have u installed some backup utility or something??

no i didn't install anything

 i have "/backup" is a seperate partition
thats all

---

### Post by MrWES on 2008-07-06
BTW...from Nautilus, if you hold the shift key down and hit delete, the file will NOT go to your trash, it will permenately delete the file.

Bill

---

### Post by sayakb on 2008-07-06
You may also add a Delete command (which would bypass trash) to the Nautilus right-click menu. At a Nautilus window, goto Edit->Preferences->Behavior and **check **the *Include a delete command that bypasses trash*checkbox.

---

