---
title: "12.04 stops booting at &quot;Checking battery state ... [OK]&quot;"
date: 2013-07-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kc5hwb on 2013-07-15
I've searched this forum and found this to be a graphics driver issue/problem.  I'm not sure why the problem is coming up now, I have had Ubuntu installed for a good while on this same build and haven't changed anything about the graphics in over a year.

Anyway... I am running the Radeon HD4670 and this problem, when I search this forum, seems to be mostly related to nVidia drivers, which I am not running.  I just need to know which Radeon drivers to reinstall so that I can get my X-session going again.

I ran this command and verified it is this card, but can't paste the complete details in here because it is just cmd line.

```
lshw -c graphics
```

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-07-15
Hello!

Is this 12.04, 12.04.1 or 12.04.2?

Thanks.

---

### Post by kc5hwb on 2013-07-15
> **QIII said:**
> Hello!

Is this 12.04, 12.04.1 or 12.04.2?

Thanks.

As far as I know, it is 12.04.  But it is also 64-bit.

---

### Post by kc5hwb on 2013-07-16
I attempted to SSH into the box, in hopes of copying the error msg, but it seems the SSH server isn't running upon this boot error, even after hitting CTRL-ALT-F1

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-07-16
I have almost no experience with graphics issues, but adding the hardware/driver info may get you some more help.

You may try instead -
```
lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga
```
to get a relatively smaller output. Then you may have to manually note and type the details here, especially the VID : PID (something like [8086:0116] at the end of first line) and the kernel driver/module in use.

But I think your device should be covered by the native "radeon" driver. The proprietary "fglrx" has been a bit problematic recently, based on some recent discussions on IRC.

You may also try various boot options available : [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions#Changing_boot_options_Temporarily_for_an_Existing_Installation](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions#Changing_boot_options_Temporarily_for_an_Existing_Installation)

---

### Post by kc5hwb on 2013-07-19
```
vga compatible controller [0300]: Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) nee ATI RV730 Pro (Radeon HD 4650) [1002:9498]
Subsystem: PC Patrner Limited Device [174b:9498]
Kernel driver in use: fglrx_pci
Kernel modules: fglrx, radeon
```

This is the result returned by the cmd you listed.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-07-20
> **kc5hwb said:**
> ```
vga compatible controller [0300]: Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) nee ATI RV730 Pro (Radeon HD 4650) **[COLOR="#800000"][1002:9498][/COLOR]**
Subsystem: PC Patrner Limited Device [174b:9498]
Kernel driver in use: **[COLOR="#FF0000"]fglrx_pci[/COLOR]**
Kernel modules: fglrx, radeon
```
Your device is indeed supported by both the open source 'radeon' and the proprietary 'fglrx' drivers (you can check with 'modinfo radeon | grep 9498' command). Currently you are using the proprietary one (fglrx). You may try the open source 'radeon' instead following this guide :[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver) , and pay special attention to the part about removing fglrx first -
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver#Removing_the_proprietary_fglrx_driver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver#Removing_the_proprietary_fglrx_driver)

fglrx is supposed to perform better, and it does in terms of 3d graphics acceleration, but sometimes causes problems as well. I can't say though if the native one will do any better in your case, I'm not a graphics expert like I said earlier. :)

---

