---
title: "Where is my xorg.conf file??"
date: 2009-05-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Psquared on 2009-05-31
I expected it to be in /etc/X11/xorg.conf, but when I nano that file it is empty. If I navigate there using nautilus it is also not under /etc/X11.

Has xorg.conf been moved for 9.04 ??

I am trying to get gysnaptics to work and I need to make some adjustments.

sudo cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf = no such file

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg = nothing done

System runs and boots up fine.


Thanks.

---

### Post by bacardiandwatermelon on 2009-05-31
/etc/X11/xorg.conf is the right location.. Typo maybe?

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2009-05-31
Hi, 

indeed weird, because I can find my xorg.conf under the same destination with

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
nano cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Have you done any significant changes concerning the graphical display recently?

---

### Post by Gen2ly on 2009-05-31
The new X server doesn't need an xorg.conf file anymore rather gathering the devices with dbus and may be installed without it on Jaunty.  You can still build your own though if you need to add something.

---

### Post by Psquared on 2009-05-31
> **Dirk.R.Gently said:**
> The new X server doesn't need an xorg.conf file anymore rather gathering the devices with dbus and may be installed without it on Jaunty.  You can still build your own though if you need to add something.

Ahaa .... just as I suspected. (no typos) I've got a Acer Extensa Laptop 4620Z and I want to adjust gsynaptics which I understand can only be done via xorg.conf. I also have the Intel 9xx video and in order to make it work with compiz, or enable special effects, I have to makes some adjustments in xorg.conf.

What would be the default xorg.conf file that I could start with?

Thanks

---

### Post by Psquared on 2009-06-01
Anyone know how to configure gysnaptics without xorg.conf??

I get a message saying "Gsynaptics could not initialize, you must set SHMConfig True in xorg.conf"

My mouse is all over the place without it.

Thanks.

---

### Post by NilsE on 2009-06-01
I know nothing about gysnaptics but here is the content of a basic Intel xorg.conf if you want to create it and try from there.

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by tarvid on 2009-06-16
> **Psquared said:**
> Anyone know how to configure gysnaptics without xorg.conf??

I get a message saying "Gsynaptics could not initialize, you must set SHMConfig True in xorg.conf"

My mouse is all over the place without it.

Thanks.

System, Preferences, Mouse, Touchpad - disable mouse clicks

-or- try
tarvid@hans:~$ cat  /etc/hal/fdi/policy/shmconfig.fdi 
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<deviceinfo version="0.2">
  <device>
    <match key="input.x11_driver" string="synaptics">
      <merge key="input.x11_options.SHMConfig" type="string">True</merge>
    </match>
  </device>
</deviceinfo>

---

### Post by @B6Mwu8fN9M on 2009-11-15
According to 9.10 Release Notes:

" Then create an Xorg configuration file with the command below:

    * sudo Xorg -configure 
"

It's right at the bottom of the page.

---

### Post by opyate on 2009-12-01
> **vlad003 said:**
> According to 9.10 Release Notes:

" Then create an Xorg configuration file with the command below:

    * sudo Xorg -configure 
"

It's right at the bottom of the page.


Thanks for this answer, but is there a command-line alternative?

I don't have a PC monitor, but an LCD TV which is flickering like mad, so I'm trying to rectify this via SSH.
Or perhaps someone with a 1366 x 768 px LCD TV can provide me with a sensible default xorg.conf file?

Thanks :)

_UPDATE:_ I found this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=96980](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=96980)

---

### Post by rjdaggett on 2010-03-10
Tried the above xorg command:

rjdaggett@ASUS-EeePC901:~$ sudo Xorg -configure

Fatal server error:
Server is already active for display 0
	If this server is no longer running, remove /tmp/.X0-lock
	and start again.


Please consult the The X.Org Foundation support 
	 at [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
 for help. 

 ddxSigGiveUp: Closing log

This does not work...So I gleaned this from google.

In order to generate xorg.conf you need to switch to one virtual console using the key combination CTRL + ALT + F1.
Now execute the following commands:
**user@ubuntu ~# sudo service gdm stop**
This command will stop the X.
Now we need to generate the xorg.conf file:
**user@ubuntu ~# sudo Xorg -configure**
This has generated the file in ~/xorg.conf.new.
We need to make the X using it so we have to put this file inside /etc/X11/
**user@ubuntu ~# sudo mv ~/xorg.conf.new /etc/X11/xorg.conf**
After moving this file to the proper location you can start the X again and see what happens:
**user@ubuntu ~# sudo service gdm start**
 
This is the best way to go because this new file was generated from autodetected devices. 
I now have about 6 modes on my eeePc 9xx that I did not have before.

---

### Post by bkratz on 2010-03-10
> **rjdaggett said:**
> Tried the above xorg command:

rjdaggett@ASUS-EeePC901:~$ sudo Xorg -configure

Fatal server error:
Server is already active for display 0
	If this server is no longer running, remove /tmp/.X0-lock
	and start again.


Please consult the The X.Org Foundation support 
	 at [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
 for help. 

 ddxSigGiveUp: Closing log

??? what gives do I drop to root shall at boot?



Here is a page about creating an Xorg file.


[http://www.osguides.net/operation-systems/217-how-to-create-xorgconf-in-ubuntu-910.html](http://www.osguides.net/operation-systems/217-how-to-create-xorgconf-in-ubuntu-910.html)

---

### Post by rjdaggett on 2010-03-11
Thanks,

UPDATE, I thought I would be clever and add a virtual screen, and tried listing a 1024x768 as my 1st mode. however xorg ignores this, I don't know why. It does display posix something during resume, but I can't read it fast enough. This would be the perfect soulution for eeePC owners, I think. If I could choose between 1024x600 or a 1024x768 virtual screen. once again If OpenSOLARIS had apci suspend resume I would go back. BTW openSOLARIS 2009.9 runs faster on my eeePC than XP or Ubuntu and the network manager is great at finding wireless networks and latches onto the 1st open network it finds. I think ZFS is ideal for a SSD, but maybe someone will make a good ZFS systems for linux soon. I don't feel like setting up a ftp server to transfer my files either.

Thanks for all the help. any one knows how to get xorg to set a 1024x768 virtual screen on 9.10 please advise.

---

