---
title: "Vlc does not support WVP2 Photostory 3"
date: 2009-08-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Peterfc on 2009-08-30
Hi All

I have received a Dvd of my grandchilren. When i tried to have a look Vlc does not support the audei or video format "WVP2". Unfortunatley there is no way to fix this. Real player comes up with a General error.

Any ideas how to play this format Dvd. I am told it was made using windows Photo story 3

---

### Post by Liolikas on 2009-08-30
Win32 Codecs you need to open windos only media.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2009-08-30
You'll need to enable the [Medibuntu repository]("http://www.medibuntu.org/"), then install the package non-free-codecs. That'll install either w32codecs or w64codecs, plus some other good stuff like k/x/ubuntu-restricted-extras (if you don't have that already)

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-09-01
Hi Peterfc,

> **Peterfc said:**
> I have received a Dvd of my grandchilren. When i tried to have a look Vlc does not support the audei or video format "WVP2". Unfortunately there is no way to fix this. Real player comes up with a General error.

This is a 'Windows Media Video 9.1 Image V2' file and I believe that it is most commonly generated by Photo Story 3.1, as you mention. Most compilations of vlc will *not* in fact play this file as vlc has to be compiled with a certain option *-enable-loader* for it to use the dmo codecs and this is routinely not done in Ubuntu versions. The good news is that MPlayer *will* play these files in conjunction with the w32codecs by using:

```
wmvadmo     dmo       working   Windows Media Video Adv DMO  [wmvadvd.dll]
```

So if you add the [Medibuntu repository]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu") and download MPlayer and the w32codecs you should be seeing your grandchildren soon :-). If anybody is interested in having a look at one of these files I have a sample on my website:

```
wget http://andrews-corner.org/samples/TeaPartyCommercial.wmv
```

All the best,

Andrew

---

### Post by John Wilson on 2010-12-27
> **andrew.46 said:**
> Hi Peterfc,
  The good news is that MPlayer *will* play these files in conjunction with the w32codecs by using:

```
wmvadmo     dmo       working   Windows Media Video Adv DMO  [wmvadvd.dll]
```So if you add the [Medibuntu repository]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu") and download MPlayer and the w32codecs you should be seeing your grandchildren soon :-). If anybody is interested in having a look at one of these files I have a sample on my website:

Andrew

Andrew,
Thank you for your post. I too am trying to get a Photo Story 3 file to run.
For MPlayer are you meaning Gnome MPlayer or Totem Movie Player?
I was able to add the Medibuntu repository which allowed me to install the w32codecs but what does this mean?:
wmvadmo     dmo       working   Windows Media Video Adv DMO  [wmvadvd.dll]

Thanks,
John

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2010-12-28
Hi John,

On my own system I was referring to the commandline program MPlayer but the gnome MPlayer will do as well, it is simply a gtk frontend for the commandline MPlayer after all. The reference to *wmvadvd.dll* is simply highlighting the codec that MPlayer uses to play Photo Story files, this should be automagically selected for you if you use the gnome Mplayer. I have removed the sample file from my website btw, but another can be found [here]("http://samples.mplayerhq.hu/V-codecs/WVP2/PhotoStory3.wmv").

Andrew

---

### Post by John Wilson on 2010-12-28
Hi Andrew
Thank you for your reply and giving me another link.
When I try and open your link the audio runs and I can see a still picture titled "Arrive dans la ville natale de la familie de Jacqueline" and then mplayer looks for a suitable plug in until I get the following message:
"No package with the requested plugins found
The requested plugins are: video/x-asf-unknown decoder"
Cant find video/x-asf-unknown or a shortened version on synaptic
Any suggestions?
John

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-12-29
open a terminal type smplayer click enter
it tells you how to install it

it lodes some more codes that vlc and winff does not have

---

### Post by John Wilson on 2010-12-30
Thank you no2498
smplayer looks cool but it does not run a photostory 3 file
Do I need to install something else

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-12-30
not that i know of
try the same thing you always use
im not sure if a restart will help or not
but the codes it lodes helps a lot of programs

i do hope it helps you in the long run anyway

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2011-08-27
I plead guilty to necroposting here but some may be interested to know that the latest FFmpeg now contains a 'Photostory' ([Windows Media Video 9 Image]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Media_Video#Windows_Media_Video_Image")) decoder so MPlayer no longer needs an external codec:

```

andrew@skamandros~/Desktop$ **[COLOR="Red"]mplayer -vc help | grep -i ffwmvp[/COLOR]**

ffwmvp      ffmpeg    working   FFmpeg WVC1  [wmv3image]

```

This means 64 bit users can now easily view these files :).

---

