---
title: "10.04 desktop appearance different than 9.10"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by DianeInChicoCA on 2010-05-09
I have 9.10 UNR on my Toshiba netbook.  I booted ubuntu 10.04 Netbook Edition from a USB stick.  There is a menu on the left of the desktop area (Favorites, ..., System).  In 9.10 Netbook Remix these menus were on the top panel.  In 10.04 there is no panel on the bottom and I don't see the option to use virtual desktops.  I was used to 9.10.  Can I switch the old desktop appearance in 10.04?

---

### Post by d3ngar on 2010-05-09
Hi,

mmm, I've not seen the netbook edition, but in theory you can customise the panels to whatever you want them to look. 

You can't change the close, minimise/maximise button location to my knowledge, so that's changed. I kinda like that though...

Try clicking with the right mouse key on an empty part of your main panel, you should see the option to add a new panel, add elements to this panel or edit the options of this panel.

You can also add the "Remote Desktop Viewer", if that's what you mean by Virtual Desktop. Otherwise try the 'Workspace Switcher', which also lets you change the number of workspaces you've got.

Best of luck.

---

### Post by DianeInChicoCA on 2010-05-09
Thanks d3ngar, but... When I right click on an empty place on the desktop the only option I have is to change the desktop background.  When I said 'virtual desktop' I meant the different views of the desktop you see with the workplace switcher.  I couldn't find a 'workplace switcher' on 10.04 netbook edition.  Hmmm.

I'm not sure what words to use to describe my problem.  Maybe what I'm wishing for is the "gnome desktop" I had in netbook remix?  At any rate, 9.10 is supported for a while :-)

---

