---
title: "12.04 updates installing without requesting authorization"
date: 2014-01-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Odyssey1942 on 2014-01-31
Both of our 12.04 computers are now installing updates without requesting authorization. I don't know what I might have done to "pre-authorize" this.

Has there been a change to the way these are done now? Alternatively, have I somehow become permanent root? Terminal shows a "$".

It may apply only to Chromium browser updates.

---

### Post by ubudog on 2014-01-31
Hi,

You should be able to manage updates in System Settings.

Also, no, you should usually see "#" in the console if you are root.  If you see something along the lines of "[$yourusername@$hostname ~]$" then you are not root.

---

### Post by Odyssey1942 on 2014-01-31
I do not see anything in updates under the Authentications tab that clearly has to do with authorizations.

However, under the Updates tab, three of the four options are checked. Should I understand that the check mark means that I do not have to manually authenticate every update? Surely not!

If I am barking up the wrong tree, please feed the hounds.

---

### Post by ubudog on 2014-01-31
Could you post the output of:
```
sudo apt-get update
```

This will probably tell us what the problem is.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2014-01-31
Updating already-installed packages requires no password. Installing new packages still requires a password.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-02-01
> **Dennis N said:**
> Updating already-installed packages requires no password. Installing new packages still requires a password.

Aye.
More here
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/86773/update-manager-doesnt-ask-for-a-password](http://askubuntu.com/questions/86773/update-manager-doesnt-ask-for-a-password)

---

