---
title: "16.04 hanging on shutdown - OK to reset?"
date: 2017-03-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lysander6662 on 2017-03-07
I've noticed that 16.04 hangs on shutdown occasionally, maybe about 10% of the time. Now when this happens I tend to do a reset by pressing the reset button, rebooting and then shutting down, and then it's OK. I don't want to do a hard shutdown because I'm worried about damanging hardware long term. Is it OK to reset? I would much rather find a solution though. Has anyone else experienced this or happens to know how it could be resolved?

---

### Post by kc1di on 2017-03-07
Some have reported that they solved this problem by adding the command ```
 acpi=force
``` to the grub boot line.  
I have no way to test it here because haven't experienced that problem. 
you can add it to your next boot and see if it works for you.
the boot line would look like this  ```
 GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=quiet splash acpi=force
```
You can get to the grub menu by holding the tab key down as it begins to boot.
good luck.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2017-03-07
> **lysander6662 said:**
> I've noticed that 16.04 hangs on shutdown occasionally, maybe about 10% of the time. ...
How long do you wait before deciding to reset? There's something called REISUB which I've never used. That's supposed to be the way to shut down a troublesome system.

---

### Post by lysander6662 on 2017-03-07
> **vasa1 said:**
> How long do you wait before deciding to reset? There's something called REISUB which I've never used. That's supposed to be the way to shut down a troublesome system.

Probably about 30 seconds. It normally shuts down so quickly - in about two seconds - that if it takes longer I tend to assume it won't do it at all and will just hang. REISUB sounds interesting, thanks for that. 

[COLOR=#000000]**kc1di** - I will also try your suggestion, thanks. [/COLOR]

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2017-03-07
> **lysander6662 said:**
> Probably about 30 seconds. It normally shuts down so quickly - in about two seconds - that if it takes longer I tend to assume it won't do it at all and just hang. REISUB sounds interesting, thanks for that. 

[COLOR=#000000]**kc1di** - I will also try your suggestion, thanks. [/COLOR]I've experienced shutdown taking quite some time sometimes. I just wait. It's not been happening to me recently.

---

### Post by lysander6662 on 2017-03-07
> **vasa1 said:**
> I've experienced shutdown taking quite some time sometimes. I just wait. It's not been happening to me recently.

Good to know, thanks. I'll be more patient!

---

### Post by flocculant on 2017-03-07
Only time I've seen this it's some systemd service hanging around - and they've usually got a 90s timeout (iirc)

[reisub]("http://blog.kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/")

That will restart the machine, reisuo will shut it down

[Magic SysRq key]("https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_SysRq_key")

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2017-03-07
Press ESC while it is hanging, and see if there is a system message. In the past, I experienced an occasional problem of a 90 sec delay during shutdown. The system message I would see was:
```
A Stop Job is Running for Session c2 of user dmn (x sec/1min 30sec)
```
where x is a countdown in seconds. No details were given of what the "stop job" might refer to. 

I would just wait untill the time elapsed, and then the computer shuts down normally. If you have this same problem, it is possible to change the time the system waits to a shorter amount. It is a problem with systemd, supposedly fixed in newer versions.

---

### Post by sonicwind on 2017-03-07
Note that it isn't required to hold down the Alt **and** SysRq key the whole time while typing R E I S U B.

All these instructions online should really say to hold down the Alt key while typing SysRq-R-E-I-S-U-B

I've done it twice now, and it worked beautifully both times. Allow a few seconds between each keystroke to allow each step to complete.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2017-03-08
REISUB is a system call that acts at a very basic kernel level. It does not always work. For example, it will not work in a kernel panic. However, it should be tried before hitting the reset button, which is really the nuclear option and nothing more than a fancy way of pulling the plug.

The shutdown process can stall for any number of reasons: on my system, the system has to wait for confirmation from network shares that they have freed locked files and flushed caches. But because I use autofs and aggressive powersaving on my servers, the system has to wait for the server to wake up and come back on line. Occasionally, either the server or my machine will fail to process the server/client handshake properly and my machine will wait interminably. REISUB comes in handy then.

---

