---
title: "10.04 questions"
date: 2010-09-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by guitardennison on 2010-09-07
I went on the kubuntu site to download it and try it out but the net book edition is only 32 bit and suggested for small screens.  I have a 17.3 inch screen and 6 gigs of ram. Should i get the desktop 64 bit edition instead?

---

### Post by Davor &#268;engija on 2010-09-07
> **guitardennison said:**
> I went on the kubuntu site to download it and try it out but the net book edition is only 32 bit and suggested for small screens.  I have a 17.3 inch screen and 6 gigs of ram. Should i get the desktop 64 bit edition instead?

If I understand correctly the Kubuntu's nomenclature, netbooks are those small, limited laptops by Asus, Sony and similar. If you have a regular laptop computer, go with the desktop version. Additionally, installation cd's are live-bootable, meaning you can try the system without installation, and if it works as expected, you can install it on your machine.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-09-07
> **guitardennison said:**
> I went on the kubuntu site to download it and try it out but the net book edition is only 32 bit and suggested for small screens.  I have a 17.3 inch screen and 6 gigs of ram. Should i get the desktop 64 bit edition instead?

You surely should install 64-bit Desktop Edition. Netbook 32-bit edition is not going to pick up any RAM more than 3GB. And you seem to have a powerful laptop so go with Desktop Edition as suggested in the post above.

---

### Post by guitardennison on 2010-09-07
That would mean that i would need the ubuntu 64 bit desktop instead of the net book 64 bit?

---

### Post by cj.surrusco on 2010-09-07
> **sikander3786 said:**
> You surely should install 64-bit Desktop Edition. Netbook 32-bit edition is not going to pick up any RAM more than 3GB. And you seem to have a powerful laptop so go with Desktop Edition as suggested in the post above.

Not sure if the Netbook 32-bit is different from the desktop version, but now the desktop 32-bit will support 4+ GB of RAM with the PAE kernel. I would assume that both variants use the same kernel, but I've never tried the netbook version.

---

