---
title: "System Freezes"
date: 2012-01-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sefub on 2012-01-30
Got Ubuntu 11.04 installed on my old e machine w6 409. with a P-4, 1GB ram and 160gb hard drive, and have had it about one week. It has frozen about a dozen time and while reading the black screen of death it says something about panic and it seem to be trying to start other programs in the back ground. It has happened at different time and I'm doing different stuff and it just freezes and I have to restart to get it back. What log do you need to give it a look to see what's wrong.

---

### Post by sefub on 2012-02-01
Here we go with some new information. The last few lines that I get are something about 

Panic occurred switch back to text mode.

The system is frozen and I have to turn it off and it boots back up. Nothing was going on the screen saver was on.

---

### Post by sefub on 2012-02-02
Well I got Ubuntu 11.10 to install and now I have two problems. I still get the system freezing but without the Panic line. But I have to restart non the less. Plus 11.10 when it starts I get a blank Ubuntu(red) screen. I start and stop again and I get a choice between an some recovery version and a previous version of Ubuntu Next screen I get a choice between linux 2.6.38 generic and 2.6.8 generic. I chose 38 and the system starts. How to I correct the start up process.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-02-04
Hi sefub, welcome to the forums!

Sorry to see you having such problems with Ubuntu. Although your system specs seem capable enough to handle the default Ubuntu version, I'd suggest you to try a lighter version of it, namely- [Xubuntu]("http://xubuntu.org/"), or [Lubuntu]("http://lubuntu.net/"). I personally prefer to download them via torrents.

As for the current blank screen issues, you may try various [boot options]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions") to see if that helps you boot normally.

Also, it seems you have also installed Ubuntu 10.10 (kernel 2.6.38 ) previously. Does it boot correctly? If yes, we may get some useful info from there. For example- if you can boot into the older version, or if you can boot using an ubuntu live cd, then please download and run (as per instructions on the download page) [Boot Info Script]("http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/") and post the contents of RESULT.txt file generated by the script.

This will help us determine what all Operating systems exist on your system and where on the hard disk they are located. Then we can easily troubleshoot any booting related issues if required.

You can also try [Boot-Repair]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair") application to make some basic corrections/changes yourself from a friendly GUI. (it also contains the boot info script which can be used by a simple button-click).

---

