---
title: "9.04 100% CPU AMD64 Dual Core"
date: 2009-07-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dimitriv on 2009-07-04
Hi

I've noticed a few times recently both cpu's of dual core are sitting continually at 100%. System monitor shows only around 25% or another time 45% of CPU being used, there is no process identified as using most/all the CPU. **Why is 100% CPU Utilisation not demonstrated in System Montior Processes?** (It shows 100% under Resources but not under Processes)

The machine generally appears to be performing OK, although sometimes loading a bunch of music files nautilus will go grey before totem starts playing them. It's slightly sluggish but otherwise ok.

How can i determine what is caning the CPUs as Sys Mon doesn't show it?

On one previous occassion I shut down all apps and then CPU dropped to normal levels. Right now I can't (don't want to) stop all apps.

Machine was recently upgraded to 9.04 no such problem previously.

Thanks

---

### Post by dimitriv on 2009-07-04
OK... i just logged another account out and now CPU looks more normal. Either logging that account out or the act of doing so (logging in as other account then back to main account) appears to have fixed this. Although this is slightly different to what i mentioned previously when I'd closed just apps I was using. 
I thought Sys Mon was showing resource usage for the machine has a whole (not just my account). How do I see that - all accounts logged in?

thanks

---

### Post by DGortze380 on 2009-07-04
start by opening a terminal and typing the command

```

top

```

exit with 'q'

---

### Post by dimitriv on 2009-07-04
perfect
thanks

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-07-04
If you press CTRL + c while top is running, you can cut and paste what you see in the terminal back here for others to look at and help you with.

One thing that comes to mind immediately is whether or not you have Vino running.

---

### Post by dimitriv on 2009-07-05
ok great, thanks

---

### Post by dimitriv on 2009-07-11
Using 'top' it shows that while loading one heavy app, that app alone is utilising 104% CPU! 
A few seconds later it shows my top three processes CPU usage as 76%, 25% & 22% (that's just the top 3).
Do these figures not add up or max to 100% because it's dual core or some other reason?

Is there a way i can see an accurate total % CPU usage?

Thanks

---

