---
title: "10.04: Best search tool?"
date: 2010-07-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tyler9 on 2010-07-02
What's the best file search tool/app for Ubuntu 10.04?   

The reason I ask: In Ubuntu10.04, I used the "Search for Files" tool to search for docs containing a particular keyword, which I specified in the Search tool's "Contains the text" box.   

Although this keyword appears in several .doc files created in OpenOfficeWriter, the search tool didn't find these .doc files. 

After confirming these .doc files do exist in /home, which is the folder I specified to search, I checked the Help. 

In section 3.2. "To Add Search Options", Help says that for the option "Contains the text"--it searches "for files of type plain text that contain the specified text."  

Do I understand this correctly?  This "Search for Files" tool is no good for say, .doc or .rtf files, or other files not in plain text format? Seems a serious limitation. 

What's a good search tool that will find keywords in all files regardless of format? Just a basic search tool, comparable to whatever was in WinXP's File Manager or something like that. I really need to trust that search results are showing all the files that meet the search criteria.

 Thanks for suggestions--

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-07-02
Nepomuk and Strigi ;) Check omgubuntu.co.uk I believe they have a PPA for a really good search program for Ubuntu on there.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-07-02
I use the command line tools, grep, find, etc ...

grep "foo" -R ~/*

---

### Post by tyler9 on 2010-07-02
Thx for replies--what about Tracker? I've read complaints that Tracker uses too many system resources and slows performance, but most of those comments are a few yrs old. Maybe Tracker has improved? Interested in user's experiences before I install and try it--
[http://projects.gnome.org/tracker/index.html](http://projects.gnome.org/tracker/index.html)

---

### Post by ubudog on 2010-07-02
Google Desktop might suit your needs.  [http://desktop.google.com/linux/](http://desktop.google.com/linux/)

---

### Post by lkjoel on 2010-07-02
I think that for command line, the only one I can easily use is locate.
For a GUI, its catfish.

---

### Post by tyler9 on 2010-07-02
> **ubudog said:**
> Google Desktop might suit your needs.  [http://desktop.google.com/linux/](http://desktop.google.com/linux/)

While I'm sure it's a good tool, I trust Google even less than I trust Microsoft.

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-07-03
locate,grep,find,whereis 

those are all great search tools for the command line.

for example type

locate kernel | grep -n 2.6.32

and

whereis gnome-terminal
would result in= /usr/bin/gnome-terminal

---

