---
title: "9.04 wireless WPA password"
date: 2009-05-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rahulh.tiwari on 2009-05-15
Hi,

 I use Ubuntu on my SONY VAIO N220G. Wireless was working fine even after I upgraded to 9.04 for some days. Then suddenly one evening, when I was trying to connect to wireless, it said authorization required. And in the password box, when I clicked on "Show Password" box, it was some encrypted looking string instead of my wireless password. 

  I am very new to this. Can you please help me/guide me.

 Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by steve101101 on 2009-05-15
just re-enter your password for your wpa hot spot.

---

### Post by rahulh.tiwari on 2009-05-15
Hi Thanks,

 I did a number of times. But every time I click on Connect after changing the password, it changes back to that long string. :(

---

### Post by steve101101 on 2009-05-15
thats weird. is the security type correct for the accociated hot spot.

---

### Post by rahulh.tiwari on 2009-05-15
:( yes. weird thing is till night before i was using same setting on ubuntu, and then suddenly this problem came up. 

I thought might be password had changed. then i tried connecting through another laptop (Windows) and password was same (same security setting WPA-PSK TKIP).

not sure why the password is changing after i click connect button. i type the password "xysbjfls", click on connect.. then it doesn't connect.. then when i click on show password it looks something like "5ejkdleet4224iodfkelwei20dfdkjiolsmxnnk9ddfk4k2hfnj21" :confused:

---

### Post by rahulh.tiwari on 2009-05-15
hi :( can anyone please guide?

more details:

when i select the wireless network from the icon on top a pop up comes up saying "Authentication Required by wireless network".

And

Passwords or encryption keys are required to access the wireless network 'nsector'.

Wireless Security: WPA & WPA2 Personal
Password  : ubuntu001

Then I press connect. But it does not and same pop up appears again.

Then, when i click on show password it shows:

5ee2903b8518d988ddaba64e4e9ccc0b01ed4f5625e2efd60b8dbca08c950967 :confused:

---

### Post by Fast-Feet on 2009-05-16
I too am having this problem.  I am entering my WPA pass-phrase and pressing connect. After a few seconds of it trying to connect I get prompted to enter my pass-phrase again. This time it has something already filled in. I click on show password and it is some long random string of numbers and letters. It continues this over and voer each time I re-enter my pass-phrase.

I am able to connect just fine to my Neighbors unencrypted Wi-FI, but not able to connect to my own using WPA.

Please help. 

(Mythbuntu 9.04)
(Dlink DWA-130 using ndiswrapper)

FF

EDIT:  I am not able to connect to WEP either. I decided to try WEP, after countless hours of searching and reading...

---

### Post by newbie09 on 2009-05-24
guys i am having the exact same problem ... here is a link to my posting but it is exactly the same issue u guys have ... has anyone found a resolution ??? 


link to my post: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1167905](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1167905)

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-05-24
Have you tried just shutting down and starting up again?

The weird looking string is normal. For security, your password gets converted into a hexidecimal "key". It looks like an MD5 sum; it's a very similar sort of thing.

Sometimes if something goes screwy with your wireless device, it won't connect. Network Manager isn't smart enough to realise this, and when it gets the signal that an error has occurred it thinks that the password or key provided is incorrect.

Don't "restart", actually shut the computer down fully and start up again.

---

### Post by newbie09 on 2009-05-24
i actually un-installed and re-installed Ubuntu and still does the same thing ... i mean it is able to detect and list all the wireless connections (including my own) but it does not allow me to connect to mine ... it keeps asking for my password or key and when i select wep128-bit it reverts back to wep 64 and it keeps putting in a strange string password

---

### Post by BrandonH75 on 2009-05-25
I am having this same issue...here are my observations...

I just installed 9.04 netbook remix on a Dell Mini.  It can see other networks in the neighborhood, and connect to the unsecured ones.  I have the similar problem where mine keeps asking for my WPA password when I try to connect to my network.  I can put the correct password in all day long and it won't connect, like the posters above.

Just messing around once, I told it that the connection should be "WEP 128-bit Passhprase"...then it would connect to my network but I could not browse or ping anything.

I did try changing my AP to 128-bit WEP, but the Mini was doing the same thing...it kept asking for a password and wouldn't connect.

My wireless access point is not a good brand, but my PS3 connects just fine, so that shouldn't be the problem.

---

### Post by Chocobo on 2009-05-27
I was having the same problem.  I just installed Jaunty two days ago and everything was working fine, then all the sudden this started happening.  It would pop up the password prompt, with the encrypted key, and would never connect.  I was thinking that it might be getting confused because it says "WPA & WPA2 Personal" so i went to my router (dd-wrt) and set it to "WPA2 Pre-Shared Key Only" and now everything is working again.  I have a D-Link wireless card that shows up in device manager as "Atheros AR5001X+ Wireless Network Adapter."  It was having this problem both with the open driver and the madwifi driver after enabling it.

---

### Post by ricpat51 on 2009-06-05
Hey guys I'm facing the same problem than you and I'm kind of happy cause now I know that this is nothing I've been doing wrown. In Intrepid it worked fine to me. The problem came up after installing Jaunty, then probably there might be something related on it. Please if anybody find out a solution please post it here and share with us.

Thanks a lot

Ricardo

---

### Post by hubie on 2009-06-06
I think I can explain the changing passphrase.  I believe what is happening is that the passphrase you type in gets converted to the appropriate hex key.  You can verify this by running wpa_passphrase:
```
/usr/bin/wpa_passphrase <essid> <passphrase>
```
The output you'll get should be the same as what the you see when you go back and look at the passphrase.

For what it's worth, I haven't got my wireless to connect yet on a fresh install.

On a different computer (a laptop with 8.10), I had the WPA2 wireless working, then it stopped working and it kept asking for my passphrase and never accepting it.  I was hoping that a 9.04 install would show me that whatever problem I was having was fixed and it would convince me to upgrade my laptop, but I'm not at that point yet.

---

### Post by mikechant on 2009-06-08
ripcat, hubie, did you notice this bit in chocobo's post above and try it if applicable?
> so i went to my router (dd-wrt) and set it to "WPA2 Pre-Shared Key Only" and now everything is working again.

---

### Post by crinisuilla on 2009-06-19
Hi all!  I'm having the same problem since upgrading to 9.04.  My WPA Personal connection worked fine in 8.10, so something buggy was introduced.  I don't have the option of changing the router config, as it's not mine.

While it probably won't help anything, is there a way to force wpa_supplicant (or the network manager) to use unhexed psk?

---

### Post by Scunnered on 2009-06-19
I dont know what your connections are but my experience with wireless failing and requesting a password is that I am required to enter the password agreed or provided by my ISP.  If I enter that as requested and it does not immediately connect the system will again call for the password.  Ignore that request and select cancel.

Having done that **SHUT DOWN** the system do not use restart. I stress shut down as otherwise it will not effect a connection.  Boot up the system and all should be well. On an odd attempt it might not work first time so go through the proceedure again and this will normally work.

I hope this assists you all

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-06-19
Yeah, I had no luck with WEP either, had to change my router to WPA2 like Chocobo.

---

### Post by jay3ld on 2009-08-31
I hate to bump old topics, but I wanted to give a possible resolution here.
After searching for hours, testing things, breaking things and even having to reinstall ubuntu (which was awesome as it kept my personal files intact).  I finally did come across something that worked.

Following this comment on a bug report:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/339891/comments/47](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/339891/comments/47)
And then adapting a url change mentioned in this comment:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/339891/comments/72](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/339891/comments/72)

I finally got this to work with my wireless linksys adapter.

It seems the problem may be related to having WPA2 use both TKIP and AES encryption at the same time.  I never did test with only AES, but it is working for me now.

---

### Post by Windows Nerd on 2009-08-31
I have the same problem...I switched over to wicd, and tried to connect again, but with no luck. 

I can't access wireless on my Ubuntu partition, and god this is driving me crazy.

Scott

---

### Post by greguk on 2009-10-06
The only way I could find of overcoming this problem was to change the security setting on my router from "WPA+WPA2" to ¨WPA"

---

