---
title: "What is http://notfound-entry.org????"
date: 2008-12-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by VitaminBB on 2008-12-28
This is a weird one. Just today my browser started getting sluggish (firefox, latest version) and now there are several sites ive tried to go to and instead I get this weird URL, for example when I try to go to stage left I get a page load error and this URL shows in the address [http://notfound-entry.org/?d=www.stageleft.info](http://notfound-entry.org/?d=www.stageleft.info)

This happens for several sites, some load normally, some get this response back  ....

Ideas?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-12-28
Check your /etc/resolv.conf file to see if the notfound-entry,org is in there. If it is remove it and see if that makes a difference.

Jim

---

### Post by VitaminBB on 2008-12-28
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Check your /etc/resolv.conf file to see if the notfound-entry,org is in there. If it is remove it and see if that makes a difference.

Jim

This is all thats in the resolv.conf file ...

> # Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1

---

### Post by VitaminBB on 2008-12-28
Its a very strange problem and my firefox keeps conking out on me, I can even seem to download opera ... 

Do I have a virus !?

---

### Post by sirebral on 2008-12-28
You might.  How you got it there is another question.  What have you installed recently?

---

### Post by VitaminBB on 2008-12-28
> **sirebral said:**
> You might.  How you got it there is another question.  What have you installed recently?

Nothing for a long time, talking months and even then I cant exactly remember the last thing I installed ...

Im trying to think but really, I just took out synaptic to try to download opera, to see if its a DNS thing or a firefox thing, anyway I cant even download opera ...

---

### Post by ushimitsudoki on 2008-12-28
I would guess this your ISP screwing up DNS.

Add your own DNS servers, or start Googling on your provider and see if that is a match.

---

### Post by VitaminBB on 2008-12-28
> **ushimitsudoki said:**
> I would guess this your ISP screwing up DNS.

Add your own DNS servers, or start Googling on your provider and see if that is a match.

I think your right ...

Im going to do that right now

Question:

As I find other DNS servers for Shaw cable (im in Vancouver Canada), do I simply create a new line type nameserver (space) and then the ip address?

Example:

Should my resolv.conf file end up looking like this 


nameserver 192.168.1.1
nameserver 204.209.208.51
nameserver 26.42.19.11

etc etc ...

---

### Post by VitaminBB on 2008-12-28
Looks like that did it !

Thanks ushi!

---

