---
title: "10.10 Where's my /boot/grub/menu.lst file gone?"
date: 2010-11-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jamface on 2010-11-23
Yesterday I installed 10.10 as dual boot with Puppy Linux on my Sony PCG-FX109K laptop.  On this machine I need to boot with acpi=off which I can do by editing the grub menu when booting.  Because there is a problem getting the boot sequence past the login sequence (see another post) I am trying to access the /boot/grub/menu.lst file via Puppy Linux.  But the grub folder has 190 files in it, most of which have a headphone icon (do I need all these?) and there is no menu.lst file.  I have 10.04 on my desktop machine and it has a /boot/grub/menu.lst file.  Has 10.10 done something different? 
All I want to do is include acpi=off in whatever file boots 10.10 so that I don't have to edit the grub file every time I switch on the laptop.

---

### Post by Yougo on 2010-11-23
Ubuntu 10.10 uses Grub2. Grub2 does things quite differently from Grub.

read all about it (it's quite extensive, but fear not, you can skip parts :) ) here:

[Grub Basics]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275")

the reason your 10.04 desktop still has Grub instead of grub2 is because you kept the old grub at upgrade from an older ubuntu version?

---

### Post by chamira on 2010-11-23
10.10 is using Grub 2 and this doesn't allow you to edit the config file directly. 

Details here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

Sorry, I'm new to Ubuntu this is all I can offer

---

### Post by Yougo on 2010-11-23
Actually, Chamira's link is a lot less daunting ;-) I recommend clicking that one first.

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2010-11-23
> **Jamface said:**
> Yesterday I installed 10.10 as dual boot with Puppy Linux on my Sony PCG-FX109K laptop.  On this machine I need to boot with acpi=off which I can do by editing the grub menu when booting.  Because there is a problem getting the boot sequence past the login sequence (see another post) I am trying to access the /boot/grub/menu.lst file via Puppy Linux.  But the grub folder has 190 files in it, most of which have a headphone icon (do I need all these?) and there is no menu.lst file.  I have 10.04 on my desktop machine and it has a /boot/grub/menu.lst file.  Has 10.10 done something different? 
All I want to do is include acpi=off in whatever file boots 10.10 so that I don't have to edit the grub file every time I switch on the laptop.

As previously mentioned, Ubuntu starting from 9.10 is using GRUB2 instead of GRUB Legacy or Grab 0.97.

I have a flu and I'm having hard time so I didn't understand your situation but I guess all what you need is:

```
sudo update-grub

```

This is the magic of GRUB2. If you want to update the GRUB menu, you could do so with these 3 words.
You need to do it via the Terminal.

Applications > Accessories > Terminal

---

### Post by shashi859 on 2010-11-23
hi Jamface.....

From Ubuntu 9.10 onwards ubuntu is being shipped with grub2 which is more advanced than grub-legacy.
In grub2 ,you cannot find menu.lst instead grub.cfg is present but grub.cfg has completely different attributes than menu.lst...
*********for more details see this post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275 ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275")

Grub.cfg gets regenerated whenever by using settings of files under /etc/grub.d/ 
I think you need to edit one of the files under /etc/grub.d to get permenant setting otherwise if you only edit grub.cfg then you may need to redit after every regeneration of it.

*********steps to getback to grub-legacy
sudo apt-get install grub

it will remove grub2 installed and then you can get menu.lst

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2010-11-23
> **shashi859 said:**
> *********steps to getback to grub-legacy
sudo apt-get install grub

it will remove grub2 installed and then you can get menu.lst

Allow me to disagree with you about this option. GRUB2 is a lot easier and much better than GRUB Legacy :)

---

### Post by shashi859 on 2010-11-23
> Allow me to disagree with you about this option. GRUB2 is a lot easier and much better than GRUB Legacy Ok Amjjawad, i agree with u......

Recently when i needed to install directfb for my project on directfb-vnc, some blog article suggested me to add "vga=0x317" to the line of menu.lst as
[FONT=Courier New]kernel /boot/vmlinuz...... ro quiet splash*** [COLOR=DarkOrange]vga=0x317[/COLOR]***[/FONT]

Though i edited grub.cfg it got changed after grub updated while upating kernel.
Do u have any idea to have permanent solution for this?.....

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2010-11-23
> **shashi859 said:**
> Ok Amjjawad, i agree with u......

Recently when i needed to install directfb for my project on directfb-vnc, some blog article suggested me to add "vga=0x317" to the line of menu.lst as
[FONT=Courier New]kernel /boot/vmlinuz...... ro quiet splash*** [COLOR=DarkOrange]vga=0x317[/COLOR]***[/FONT]

Though i edited grub.cfg it got changed after grub updated while upating kernel.
Do u have any idea to have permanent solution for this?.....

You need to start your own thread as this is has nothing to do with this one :)
However, check [drs305]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=223945")'s signature, he has (I guess) all the helpful links.

---

### Post by QLee on 2010-11-23
[QUOTE=Jamface]... 
All I want to do is include acpi=off in whatever file boots 10.10 so that I don't have to edit the grub file every time I switch on the laptop.[/QUOTE]
Definitely read the documentation about the new GRUB, you might even begin to like it when you've learned more about it but I understand how it can be frustrating for someone who is accustomed to the legacy GRUB methods.

To get you started, for now, to add command line arguments:
Edit the file /etc/default/grub. For example, use, gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
Find the line, GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash" and change it to GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi=off", save the file and then run, sudo update-grub, you should see the OS prober finding your installed OSs and next time you boot acpi=off should be there for Ubuntu.

From your question, I deduce that you'll be fine with this, you have a good understanding of what was wrong, just haven't learned the new GRUB yet.

---

### Post by Jamface on 2010-11-23
Many thanks for all the help.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2) suggests exactly what you said, QLee - edit the /etc/default/grub file.
I'll have a go at this in a while and let you know how it goes. 
And as QLee also suggested, I might even get to like Grub2, then upgrade my 10.04 installation on this desktop machine to Grub2!

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2010-11-23
> **Jamface said:**
> then upgrade my 10.04 installation on this desktop machine to Grub2!

Ubuntu 10.04 has GRUB2 by default.

---

### Post by Jamface on 2010-11-24
But I think my 10.04 is an upgrade from one of the 8.** versions of Ubuntu so may not have Grub2, unless upgrading automatically installs Grub2; in which case I can't find it on this desktop machine.   My version of 10.04 still has a /boot/grub/menu.lst file. The contents of /boot/grub/ looks a bit similar to the contents of the same directory in Puppy Linux on my laptop.  I'll leave sorting this out until I have got the laptop 10.10 up and running properly.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-11-24
Did it not back in 9.10 ask if you wanted to keep your grub as is on upgrade or install the
new one and you made a choice. And it would still ask you on next upgrade to 10.04 but of
course on clean install grub2 was installed since 9.10. Not completely sure but have one install 
that I have had upgraded since 9.04 and seem to remember grub selection with choices to make on dist-upgrade.

---

### Post by srikanth.gundaz on 2010-11-24
> **Jamface said:**
> Yesterday I installed 10.10 as dual boot with Puppy Linux on my Sony PCG-FX109K laptop.  On this machine I need to boot with acpi=off which I can do by editing the grub menu when booting.  Because there is a problem getting the boot sequence past the login sequence (see another post) I am trying to access the /boot/grub/menu.lst file via Puppy Linux.  But the grub folder has 190 files in it, most of which have a headphone icon (do I need all these?) and there is no menu.lst file.  I have 10.04 on my desktop machine and it has a /boot/grub/menu.lst file.  Has 10.10 done something different? 
All I want to do is include acpi=off in whatever file boots 10.10 so that I don't have to edit the grub file every time I switch on the laptop.
Hi Jamface, 
menu.lst has been replaced by grub.cfg
Check in grub.cfg /boot/grub/grub.cfg
Or this is not available, then open terminal and type 
sudo apt-get install -f grub
Thank you :) 
For problems, visit [http://www.srikanthkabadi.blogspot.com/]("http://www.srikanthkabadi.blogspot.com/")

---

### Post by QLee on 2010-11-24
[QUOTE=Jamface]But I think my 10.04 is an upgrade from one of the 8.** versions of Ubuntu so may not have Grub2.[/QUOTE]
Well Jamface, when you described the problem in the original post you stated, "Yesterday I installed 10.10 as dual boot with Puppy Linux on my Sony PCG-FX109K laptop." You have to remember that none of us can see what you have done because we weren't there, your statement leads us to believe an "install" rather than an "upgrade", small differences like that sometimes make a big difference to troubleshooting and sometimes make it harder to help.

However, since you mentioned that the grub folder has all those files in it (the ones that show on your system with a "headphone" icon), it appears that you do have what we often call GRUB2. They wouldn't be there in a legacy GRUB install. Disclaimer: I don't know if Puppy uses GRUB2 now, it's been a couple of years since I had a Puppy install.


[QUOTE=Jamface]... in which case I can't find it on this desktop machine.[/QUOTE]

What we often call GRUB2 is in reality, grub-pc. There is a package grub2 but it is just a transitional package to help with upgrades, it's not needed after your system has grub-pc installed. We just call it GRUB2 (which is actually a version less than 2) to distinguish it from what we call Legacy Grub (which is actually a version less than 1).

[QUOTE=Jamface] My version of 10.04 still has a /boot/grub/menu.lst file. The contents of /boot/grub/ looks a bit similar to the contents of the same directory in Puppy Linux on my laptop.  I'll leave sorting this out until I have got the laptop 10.10 up and running properly.[/QUOTE]
During an upgrade to GRUB2 (grub-pc) the old menu.lst is parsed and the information used in the transition. At some point (I think it is the first reboot) were you presented with a choice to "test" the install and after testing to "clean up" (I can't remember those terms exactly, been too long since I did that, but something like that) I do remember several users ignoring that process and asking for help in the forum because of that.

Once again about your description, "similar" doesn't mean much to us at this point, we aren't looking over your shoulder at your monitor. If the Puppy folder has all those files then it must be using GRUB2, so I can't determine which partition your system is actually booting from.

This might be a good time to visit this site and follow the directions:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
That will let us see more about how your system is set up, without having to rely on guesses. Once you've posted the results, lots of users here will be able to help sort things out.

---

### Post by Yougo on 2010-11-24
guys, don't make this more complex than it needs to be.

below is OP with bold mine.

> **Jamface said:**
> Yesterday **I installed 10.10 as dual boot with Puppy Linux on my Sony PCG-FX109K laptop**.  On this machine I need to boot with acpi=off which I can do by editing the grub menu when booting.  Because there is a problem getting the boot sequence past the login sequence (see another post) I am trying to access the /boot/grub/menu.lst file via Puppy Linux.  But the grub folder has 190 files in it, most of which have a headphone icon (do I need all these?) and there is no menu.lst file.  **I have 10.04 on my desktop machine and it has a /boot/grub/menu.lst file. ** Has 10.10 done something different? 
All I want to do is include acpi=off in whatever file boots 10.10 so that I don't have to edit the grub file every time I switch on the laptop.

my understanding is that on his laptop, he had puppy linux (with grub), then installed 10.10 alongside, which replaced grub with grub2 (or grub-pc if you wish) 

on his desktop he has a 10.04 install with legacy grub. this is not impossible. somewhere during upgrade he chose to keep the old grub.

now he wants to learn about grub2 and maybe update his desktop accordingly.

no mystery here :)

---

### Post by QLee on 2010-11-24
[QUOTE=Yougo]guys, don't make this more complex than it needs to be.

no mystery here :)[/QUOTE]
Well, you're welcome to have an opinion that differs from mine but I suggest you re-read the whole thread carefully.

---

### Post by Yougo on 2010-11-24
if you read carefully, you'd see i did a pretty fine job recapping the process unfolding in this thread, which is about two managable pages long, on which i posted at least once on each page. i'm quite up to speed about the contents of this thread, but thanks for your concern.

also where do our opinions about the TS's problem differ? deducing from the OP, i gather that Puppy linux's grub has been replaced by 10.10's Grub2 on his laptop, and the 10.04 desktop has an old grub, which is possible.

still no mystery, imo.

---

### Post by Jamface on 2010-11-24
First of all, thank you all very much for the very helpful advice and comments.  I must apologise for a  number of my vague and confusing statements.  I am very grateful that you have been able to make some sense of what I have said.  I think Yougo's summary is about right although I quite understand that a close reading of my confusing posts could easily lead to other interpretations. One thing I hope I can clarify.  By installing 10.10 on the laptop I do not seem to have replaced Grub in my 501 with Grub2.  I still have a /boot/grub/menu.lst file in the Puppy partition, as I always have.  Installing Ubuntu 10.10 has installed Grub2 in the separate Ubuntu partition.  But there now seems to be some 'interference' between the two grubs.

Anyway, to cut to the problem of the Puppy 501 and Ubuntu 10.10 dual boot on my laptop.  I have edited the /etc/default/grub file as QLee suggested and run update-grub from the recovery console. When I rebooted I found that the 2 lines for Puppy Linus in the startup grub list are now missing but I no longer need to enter acpi=off in the startup grub menu to boot 10.10. How can I now get access to my Puppy 501 installation?

Have I given myself a whole host of problems by trying to install Ubuntu 10.10 after Puppy Linux 501?  Would I have been better to install 10.10 first then Puppy 501?  

And problems there still seem to be.  But I think I would be better to explore these in a separate thread.

Once again, apologies for making things more difficult than I should have and many many thanks for all your help.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-11-24
I installed puppy into my sdc12 partition  and this was the grub2 boot stanza. Modify drive & partition to yours and add to 40_custom.

Try this first:
sudo update-grub

gksudo gedit /etc/grub.d/40_custom

```
menuentry "Puppy 511" {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd2,msdos12)'
        linux /boot/lupu511/vmlinuz root=/dev/ram0 pmedia=atahd loglevel=7 pkeys=us 
        initrd /boot/lupu511/initrd.gz
}

```

---

