---
title: "11.04 Computer Freezes"
date: 2011-05-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-09
[SIZE=3][COLOR=black]Running FireFox along with another program. Twice in two days I have come back to my computer within an hour and the programs freeze. The mouse will move anywhere on the screen but the keyboard or mouse is locked up. I am not sure if its the keyboard or mouse and not the programs.

I put the cursor on the launcher and it doesn't activate.

Anyone has this problem?

gumshoe
[/COLOR][/SIZE]

---

### Post by TheNerdAL on 2011-05-09
What program? And try to not use that program and Firefox for two days to make sure it's not the operating system.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-05-09
Try turning your screensaver off - so it doesn't even go to a blank screen. See if this helps - turn off "Activate screensaver when computer is idle" in the Screensaver program. I've observed a similar problem on Windows where it tried to hybridnate (hibernate and suspend simultaneously) and failed, and locked up - so maybe check that you're not set up to suspend or hibernate after a period of idle time. This setting will be in the Power Management, under "put computer to sleep".

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-09
> **TheNerdAL said:**
> What program? And try to not use that program and Firefox for two days to make sure it's not the operating system.

The program I have been running along with FireFox was Xdx, a ham radio application running on telnet.
I Kept it running all night with no problems but this afternoon I encountered that freeze or lockup. I have turned it off for the evening and will watch and see what happens.

thanks.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-09
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Try turning your screensaver off - so it doesn't even go to a blank screen. See if this helps - turn off "Activate screensaver when computer is idle" in the Screensaver program. I've observed a similar problem on Windows where it tried to hybridnate (hibernate and suspend simultaneously) and failed, and locked up - so maybe check that you're not set up to suspend or hibernate after a period of idle time. This setting will be in the Power Management, under "put computer to sleep".

Appreciate the advise. I did have that portion turned off. Helpful advise though. Glad you mentioned it.
Will keep you posted on what is found.

---

### Post by poliltimmy on 2011-05-10
Yep I have this problem also. It is the last tweak or fix I need to migrate to 11.04. Turned off screen saver and power management.Will try chromium browser for a couple days and see what happens and will report back.

---

### Post by roenby on 2011-05-23
I also have this problem: The computer freezes apparently with no special pattern. It can happen after a whole days work or after 5 minutes from boot-up. As you, I am able to move my curser around but nothing else. 

The problem started after upgrading to ubuntu 11.04. It never happened with my previous version or when running Windows 7. 

I also suspected that it had to do with firefox and tried to use Chrome instead, but it did not solve the problem. As far as I remember, I have even experienced the problem with only gedit and a terminal open.

To judge from a quick google of "ubuntu 11.04 freezes" a lot of people have this problem, but I have been unable to find a solution yet. 

Please let me know if you make any progress.

Best, Johan

PS: Here are some computer specs:

System Name    APC692
System Manufacturer    LENOVO
System Model    4384B52
System Type    x64-based PC
Processor    Intel(R) Core(TM) i7 CPU       M 620  @ 2.67GHz, 2667 Mhz, 2 Core(s), 4 Logical Processor(s)
BIOS Version/Date    LENOVO 6MET81WW (1.41 ), 26-10-2010
SMBIOS Version    2.6
Boot Device    \Device\HarddiskVolume1
Locale    Denmark
Hardware Abstraction Layer    Version = "6.1.7600.16385"
Time Zone    Romance Daylight Time
Installed Physical Memory (RAM)    4,00 GB
Total Physical Memory    3,86 GB
Available Physical Memory    2,04 GB
Total Virtual Memory    9,65 GB
Available Virtual Memory    7,53 GB
Page File Space    5,79 GB

---

### Post by roenby on 2011-05-26
Hi again,

I just found and applied this fix:

[http://ubuntuguide.net/ubuntu-11-04-upgrade-linux-kernel-to-2-6-39-0](http://ubuntuguide.net/ubuntu-11-04-upgrade-linux-kernel-to-2-6-39-0)

Don't know yet if it will work but I'll let you know if the problem persists (so no more posts from me in this thread is a good sign).

Johan

---

