---
title: ".bin execution problems"
date: 2010-07-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by eclispe86 on 2010-07-17
So I have a .bin file(lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin) that I downloaded. I cannot execute it. Here is what I have tried so far


1.```
sudo chmod 755 lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin
```

2. ```
sudo ./lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin
```
which returns

sudo: unable to execute ./lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin: No such file or directory

Which make no sense at all! I just chmoded the file so it has to know its there. right?!

So how can I make this work? thanks :D

---

### Post by eclispe86 on 2010-07-17
So I have a .bin file(lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin) that I downloaded. I cannot execute it. Here is what I have tried so far


1.```
sudo chmod 755 lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin
```

2. ```
sudo ./lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin
```
which returns

sudo: unable to execute ./lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin: No such file or directory

Which make no sense at all! I just chmoded the file so it has to know its there. right?!

So how can I make this work? thanks :D

---

### Post by munkyeetr on 2010-07-17
just a few thoughts:

1) confirm your pwd is the one that contains the .bin file
2) confirm ls output shows the file as executable
3) try explicity prepending sh to the command (sudo sh ./lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin)

hope this helps,
Munky

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2010-07-17
What is the output of:
```
file lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin
```

---

### Post by Ocxic on 2010-07-17
use just "sudo lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin"  "./" and "sh" are only used to run bash scripts.

---

### Post by eclispe86 on 2010-07-17
ok still no luck
1 pwd returns /home/null/Downloads
2 ls -l returns -rwxr-xr-x  1 null null  35539077 2010-07-17 16:09 lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin
3 sudo sh ./lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin
returns
./lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin: 1: Syntax error: "(" unexpected

I dont think that  a bash script equals a binary file.

---

### Post by eclispe86 on 2010-07-17
Ocxic still does not work :(
sudo: lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin: command not found

---

### Post by munkyeetr on 2010-07-17
> **eclispe86 said:**
> I dont think that  a bash script equals a binary file.

it doesn't...sorry, i was thinking back when i was installing nVidia drivers, but I think that was .run file (not .bin)

> **eclispe86 said:**
> 2 ls -l returns -rwxr-xr-x 1 null null 35539077 2010-07-17 16:09 lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin

what is with the "null" ownerships?

---

### Post by eclispe86 on 2010-07-17
> **munkyeetr said:**
> what is with the "null" ownerships?

null is my username

---

### Post by doorknob60 on 2010-07-17
I think that means you're using 64 bit Ubuntu and trying to run a 32 bit binary. It's easy to fix, just install the ia32-libs package with apt-get or Synaptic or however you want, then it should work.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-07-17
Please don't create multiple threads on the same subject, I have merged your two threads.

---

### Post by eclispe86 on 2010-07-18
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Please don't create multiple threads on the same subject, I have merged your two threads.

sorry about that. I tried to delete the first one, but I didn't see away to do that :/

> **doorknob60 said:**
> I think that means you're using 64 bit Ubuntu and trying to run a 32 bit binary. It's easy to fix, just install the ia32-libs package with apt-get or Synaptic or however you want, then it should work.

Thank you that solved the problem :D
the error message still seems weird to me.
execute ./lugaru-full-linux-x86-1.0c.bin: No such file or directory
why would it say no such file?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2010-07-18
Because the 64-bit system doesn't recognize 32-bit binaries. ia32-libs used to be installed by default, but that's not the case with 10.04, hence these types of errors pop up from time to time.

---

