---
title: "8.10 How do you Enable Mp3 ripping support in Rhythmbox"
date: 2008-12-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sharkster2007 on 2008-12-02
Hello all

If you wish to rip cds's into Mp3 format with Rhythmbox how do you do this.

I know you need Gstreamer-plugins-ugly package, but even with this installed it doesn't seem to be available on the encoder menu, though when you click on the edit button it is listed.

Can anyone help with this?

Thanks

---

### Post by sharkster2007 on 2008-12-02
anyone?

---

### Post by cozmicharlie on 2008-12-02
In the menu go to edit>preferences> then navigate to the "music tab.  You should see a dialogue called "Preferred Format".  Set it to mp3 and you should be good to go.

---

### Post by MrWES on 2008-12-02
from a terminal type sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras

Bill

P.S. Also, google ABCDE, A Better CD Extractor -- it's command line but it's very fast and does a nice job!

---

### Post by GregTheGerg on 2009-03-08
I have the same problem myself, and I did try your suggestion. It doesn't work. When I went to the edit part right next top that and activated, the option still doesn't appear.

How do I fix it?

Thanks in advance! ^_^

---

### Post by twrock on 2009-03-15
I had MP3 ripping working in 8.04, but not in 8.10. I don't know what I did differently, but I can't get either Rhythmbox or SoundJuicer to let me pick MP3 as the format.

---

### Post by twrock on 2009-03-15
I found the solution in another thread. I installed gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse in synaptic and the MP3 options finally showed up on the lists.

(I think it might still need lame to be installed as well.)

---

### Post by arscek on 2010-03-24
> **twrock said:**
> I found the solution in another thread. I installed gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse in synaptic and the MP3 options finally showed up on the lists.

(I think it might still need lame to be installed as well.)

This solved my problem! (Ubuntu Karmic) Thanks

---

### Post by warpasylum on 2010-07-17
Hey twrock, thanx dude.  I have windows 7 starter on here too, but it won't even let me rip cds (nice).  Only other thing I had to do was create a new profile for mp3 in preferences, then it populated on the list :)

---

### Post by techunit on 2010-07-17
if you wan't to play any file you can run ```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extas
```

---

### Post by buskerjoe on 2010-07-18
i'm also unable to rip CDs since i had my hardrive replaced; can't rip music into my Rhythmbox library. bummer; i'm a prof. musician.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2010-07-18
> **buskerjoe said:**
> i'm also unable to rip CDs since i had my hardrive replaced; can't rip music into my Rhythmbox library. bummer; i'm a prof. musician.

Audio Extractor should do it. It's in the Software Center.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-07-18
Ripoff is very good for ripping MP3s and uses CDDB to pull in the information.
You can get it via Synaptic.

Just set your preferences to MP3

---

### Post by growingneeds on 2010-11-02
Hi. From Synaptic, simply install the meta-package "gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse". This will enable the selection of mp3 from the preferred format list in RhythmBox. Remember it has to be the multiverse variant. This will require the selection of 2 more packages: "libmp3lame0" and "libx264-85".

I have used RipperX previously, but it would always crash after ripping 1 CD. In addition, the id3 tags would be messed up from track 10 onwards. Even the m3u playlist generated is affected by the tagging. As such, I have returned to RhythmBox. Remember, choose the multiverse variant.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Soul-Sing on 2010-11-02
rubyripper is nizeeee, but ubuntu 8.10 is ELO afaik. you should take a look at that.( we are now at ubuntu 10.10

---

### Post by Elfy on 2010-11-02
Necromanced - closed.

---

