---
title: "I can not access the information when connecting windows secondary disk"
date: 2022-09-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jonamano on 2022-09-27
Good morning to all.
  I have connected a disk that had Windows 10 to my Ubuntu 22 as a secondary disk but it does not let me access the information because it says authentication required: a password is needed to access the encrypted data.  I put the disk back in the Windows PC but the disk does not have any encryption method active, what can I do to be able to access the data on the disk from Ubuntu?

Regards

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2022-09-28
Did you safely remove the disk from the Windows machine, ie, unmount it properly, before removing it?  Normally Windows uses fast startup, a hibernation state, meaning you can not access it from Linux as Windows leaves it flagged as still mounted and in use.

Open the application called ***Disks*** in your menu system and see what that says about the problem disk.

---

### Post by jonamano on 2022-09-28
Good morning Ajgreeny.
Thank you for responding, well I tried that and other ways to access the disk but unfortunately it didn't work.
Finally what I did was put the disk back in the Windows PC, activate bitloker on the disk, save the recovery file in a usb and remount it on the Ubuntu pc.  
Finally access the disk with the password generated by bitloker that I saved in the usb and I had access ok.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2022-09-28
But you said there was no encryption active on that disk.  Bittlocker is an encryption system!

Anyway great news! 
Please mark as SOLVED from the Thread Tools menu up-top if this is now solved to your satisfaction. It is a great help to other users searching the forum.

---

