---
title: "10.04 - anyone know if this camera works with Linux?"
date: 2010-05-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-05-14
I want to replace my hacked CVS camera, but don't want to spend much money (I don't have much!).  I found this camera on a popular discount shopping place's website:

Vivitar Vivicam 8324 Black 8.1 MP Digital Camera

Does anyone have any experience using this camera with Ubuntu?

Thanks in advance!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by tom.swartz07 on 2010-05-14
Hey Dave!

Im almost certain it works. I dont have any experience with that specific model, but I would put money on it that camera will work out of the box.

Personally, I always just plug the SD card directly into the computer, rather than farting around with cables and wires and plugs; but I know for a fact that Ubuntu recognizes external SD cards in cameras from the few times Ive plugged my camera in.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-05-14
By using a card reader you will save a lot on battery costs.  If your box does not have one they are cheaper than batteries.

I have never understood folks that don't just use the removable card the way it was designed to be used.

---

### Post by Phrea on 2010-05-14
> **ranch hand said:**
> By using a card reader you will save a lot on battery costs.  If your box does not have one they are cheaper than batteries.

I have never understood folks that don't just use the removable card the way it was designed to be used.

Very true.
[although I myself have an Olympus camera, which uses XD cards, and my stupid el cheapo card reader decided to start disliking XD cards]

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-05-15
Not to mention - if you're me, or my elderly parents - why not just plug in a USB cable and download?  That's what I prefer, and that's what I'm wondering about with this camera.  I know some Vivatars, especially the cheaper ones, won't work.  I'm hoping that since it says pictbridge is supported it should would work.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by tom.swartz07 on 2010-05-17
> **anewguy said:**
> Not to mention - if you're me, or my elderly parents - why not just plug in a USB cable and download?  That's what I prefer, and that's what I'm wondering about with this camera.  I know some Vivatars, especially the cheaper ones, won't work.  I'm hoping that since it says pictbridge is supported it should would work.

Dave ;)

Like I said...

Im almost certain it'll recognize it by default.

---

### Post by ssj6akshat on 2010-05-17
If it supports USB mass storage mode it will certainly work

---

