---
title: "10.10 only opens in a terminal mode"
date: 2010-12-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by johnthei on 2010-12-05
upgraded several times from 10.4 to 10.4. have to reinstall 10.4 each time. on 10.10 I get a terminal field after grub. it asks for my name and password. it accepts then and then stays in this mode, asking for command. never had this before, ubuntu always went right to a logon without any terminal mode, having to type dos like commands. i am clueless as to how to get 10.10 to work.

---

### Post by bwhite82 on 2010-12-05
It means you have video card driver issues. Are you familiar enough with the CLI and your video card to install the appopriate driver via the CLI?

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-05
Try to start gdm manually and report back the error.

```
sudo service gdm stop
```

```
sudo service gdm start
```

Also, try to reconfigure your graphics.

```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bad
```

It might throw an error like file not found. Ignore it and proceed to the next one.

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

Reboot.

```
sudo shutdown -r now
```

See what happens. If unsuccessful, we need to see the output of this one.

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

### Post by johnthei on 2010-12-05
> **Soldierboy said:**
> It means you have video card driver issues. Are you familiar enough with the CLI and your video card to install the appopriate driver via the CLI?

no. have an nvida card. don't know what cli is. in the past i installed the proprietary drivers for it when i got to the 'main'ubuntu page with all the options, admin and all of that.

---

### Post by johnthei on 2010-12-05
[QUOTE=sikander3786;10202079]Try to start gdm manually and report back the error.

kind of unsure where i start it manually, when grub loads or what? i am not good with all the accronymns/

i now have 10.04 and 10.10 dual system on pc so I dont have to use the Windows side.  10.04 opens fine.
10.10 goes to the terminal mode. is that where i start these commands?

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-05
Yes in the 10.10 terminal you are booting to :-)

---

### Post by johnthei on 2010-12-08
ok sorry this took a while. no good until I type in  lspci | grep VGA 

I get this :
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller:nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX - nForce GPU] {rev a3}

ok...I still can't get 10.10 cant get it in any 'safe mode low graphics resolution' to try to get the proprietary driver loaded to work in 10.10. 

now what?
thanks

---

### Post by johnthei on 2010-12-09
JUST SAW your message, will try it tonight if I get the time. thanks

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-09
> **johnthei said:**
> JUST SAW your message, will try it tonight if I get the time. thanks
Lets us know how that goes :-)

---

### Post by gbestrada on 2010-12-09
have you tried ctrl+alt+f7 when you see the terminal screen?

---

### Post by gcchris on 2010-12-09
tnx sikander3786 this one worked for me.
i keep getting in tty after trying to install my drivers for the SiS 771/671 adapter.

still havent figured that out though, but now i can keep on trying again.

---

### Post by johnthei on 2010-12-09
yes but i dont remember what happened, but it did not let me open the normal way.....i tried several things people suggested.

---

### Post by johnthei on 2010-12-09
nothing works. spent 2 hours trying various fixes I got on forums and just searching for answers...I was able to get 32  pks to update  14 security pks when I ran sudu apt-get update. but I have no idea now how to install them, I tried some 'help' guesses and got no where

dont have any idea if any of them will do anything for the nvidia problem.  I am using 10.4 version right now, it ran fine, I was always able to install the nvidia drivers without some terminal mode opening soon as it boots. 
so I am still stuck at 10.10 just opening, it says desktop tty1 in a terminal mode and asks for user name and password and I get the stupid terminal mode, and am stuck there trying to give it commands.

---

### Post by roylkenn on 2010-12-09
I have the same video card.  In order for me to get 10.10 to work I had to download the 96.43.19 legacy driver from nvidia's site here

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-ia32-96.43.19-driver.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-ia32-96.43.19-driver.html)

Detailed instructions on how to install it by reading chapter 2 of this guide.

[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/96.43.19/README/part-01.html](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/96.43.19/README/part-01.html)

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-10
> **johnthei said:**
> nothing works. spent 2 hours trying various fixes I got on forums and just searching for answers...I was able to get 32  pks to update  14 security pks when I ran sudu apt-get update. but I have no idea now how to install them, I tried some 'help' guesses and got no where

dont have any idea if any of them will do anything for the nvidia problem.  I am using 10.4 version right now, it ran fine, I was always able to install the nvidia drivers without some terminal mode opening soon as it boots. 
so I am still stuck at 10.10 just opening, it says desktop tty1 in a terminal mode and asks for user name and password and I get the stupid terminal mode, and am stuck there trying to give it commands.
Try removing the Nvidia drivers.

```
sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-current nvidia-common nvidia-settings
```

Reboot, and if it still boots to the terminal, once again configure your graphics.

```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old2
```

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by adityan77 on 2010-12-15
Hi I have had the same issue as being discussed here, so tried reinstalling ubuntu...my question is does it really matter if I just install 32bit as opposed to amd64...I have a generic computer with AMD athlon  processor and I am interested in running it on ubuntu...thanks

---

