---
title: "Radeon 4870 1GB Driver Installation"
date: 2009-02-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by technodestructo on 2009-02-04
Hey guys, 

I'm a fairly noob-ish Ubuntu explorer, having just recently installed 8.10 on a separate Velociraptor drive in my existing (primarily xp) box.  

I know that this topic has been discussed in a few other threads, but my problem is a little different.  I tried to avoid posting until I exhausted the other threads, but I haven't come across anything that specifically addresses this particular thing.  

I've got a Sapphire Radeon 4870 1GB. Thanks to the forums, I got around the "white screen on install" issue by installing Ubuntu in safe graphics mode. My problem now is that I can't seem to get the drivers to install. 

I enabled the ATI proprietary drivers, but nothing seemed to happen.  The card still isn't recognized, and the display shows as unknown.  

I tried to use the CD that came with the card, but Ubuntu says there's a problem running it.  

I even found one helpful post where a guy had a link to the ATI drivers for Ubuntu (which I downloaded) and instructions on what to type into the terminal to install them.  But even when I copy-pasted his code into the terminal, it just said it couldn't run the installer.  

So, I'm a bit confused.  What am I missing here?  

Thanks so much in advance for all your help.  I really like Linux so far and I want to play with it more, but looking at my screen resolution all stretched to hell is killing me! 

I appreciate it!

---

### Post by Eisenwinter on 2009-02-04
Have you tried using envy?
```
sudo apt-get install envyng-core
```

Also, please post the output of:
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

About the drivers you downloaded from this guy's link, you said there was an error message saying it could not run the installer, can you post the **exact** error message please?

---

### Post by technodestructo on 2009-02-04
Wow, thanks so much for the quick reply!  Argh, I wish I wasn't in the office right now!  I will definitely try envy and post the outputs you asked for this evening.  

Thanks again!

---

### Post by technodestructo on 2009-02-04
Hey Eisenwinter, 

Installing Envy seems to have worked!  Once it ran, I was able to enable the driver and set the screen resolution to its proper dimensions.  Ah, this is so much easier on my eyes!  

Here is the output you asked for:

stuart@obelinux:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"fglrx"
EndSection


I guess the other thing doesn't really matter anymore.  I may try and see if I can get Catalyst control center so I can use both monitors, but honestly if I'm limited to the big one I can deal.  At least it looks right!  

Thank you so much again for all of your help!  This site rules.

---

