---
title: "how to bind a series of keystrokes to a hotkey"
date: 2010-09-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by begtognen on 2010-09-27
I'm very new to Ubuntu. I've had extremely good luck figuring out how to create global hotkeys, but now I'm after something a bit more complicated.

The program Audacity is quite short on keyboard shortcuts. When I was using Windows, I had AutoHotKey set up to do the following (in order to fade in audio):

ALT + C, then downarrow 10 times, then Enter

whenever I hit "control + ," and I'd really like to do the same in Ubuntu.

I've seen two possibilities: xbindkeys and "can probably be done with  normal bash and linux utils".

I know I can run AutoHotKey under Wine, but ideally I'd like to get this working under Ubuntu. If I *can* do it in xbindkeys, can you give me some pointers on where to begin?

Or if it makes more sense to do something else, I'm happy to try that as well.

Thanks so much for any help/suggestions.

---

### Post by WishDasher on 2010-09-29
I was just learning how to use xbindkeys myself. To use it this way, you'll need another program as well since xbindkeys can only execute shell commands, to run other programs. Usually "xvkbd" is used to simulate keypresses, but unfortunately it doesn't seem to be able to traverse menus like you wanted (more on this at the end). After installing xbindkeys and xvkbd, you just need to (1) create an xbindkeys configuration file and (2) set xbindkeys to run during startup.

(1) In your home drive, create ".xbindkeysrc", open this file with a text editor and add the contents:
```
" xvkbd -delay 100 -text "\[Alt]c\[Down]\[Down]\[Down]\[Down]\[Down]\[Down]\[Down]\[Down]\[Down]\[Down]\[Enter]""
  m:0x4 + c:59
```This tells xvkbd to generate a string of input events, in this case "the alt + C, 10x down, enter" you gave as your example, when "m:0x4 + c:59" is pressed (ctrl + ,). You can get the key codes by typing in a terminal:
```
xbindkeys -k
```I also left in the "-delay 100" which creates a 100ms delay between each character, allowing one to watch the process unfold for debugging.

(2) A simple way to make xbindkeys automatically start is by adding it to the list in System -> Preferences -> Startup Applications.

On my system, I found that this method is unable to access the contents of any application menus other than the "file" menu. I tested it in audacity and in gedit. The selected menu jumps back to 'File' when any other menu is selected through input generated by xvkbd, even if you attempt to move away using \[Right] and \[Left]. Perhaps you or someone else can find a way to prevent this jumping, or maybe it won't happen on your machine.

---

### Post by begtognen on 2010-09-30
WishDasher -

WOW! Thanks *so* much. This is such a relief. Okay - so on my system it went directly to the Effects menu, and the downarrows worked just fine (unless my mouse cursor was in the way, but that won't be a big deal to work around). I wasn't able to get Enter to work, but that's also not a worry; so much easier to just hit ctrl+, and then Enter.

Can you show me how to add another keybinding? The next one is exactly like the first (fade out instead of fade in) except there's an extra downarrow, and it's ctrl+. instead:

m:0x4 + c:60

I did try just copying, making the changes, and adding it below the first, but that didn't seem to work so I thought I'd ask before trying again.

Really appreciate it!

---

### Post by WishDasher on 2010-09-30
It should work to just add another line, for example my configuration file looks like this:
```
" xvkbd -delay 50 -text "\[Control]\[Alt]\[Left]""
  b:8
" xvkbd -delay 50 -text "\[Control]\[Alt]\[Right]""
  b:9
```
for switching workspaces with side mouse buttons. I'm not sure what reason it could have for not working for you to add another this way. It's good that the menus work properly for you though.

And I think [Enter] should have been [Return], oops.

---

### Post by begtognen on 2010-10-01
Oh! I bet the problem in creating a new bit was forgetting the double quotes at the end of the command.

---

