---
title: "./ Command not found"
date: 2013-07-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by john2100 on 2013-07-05
Its probably some stupid mistake of mine but i cant seem to find any leads
When i try opening a file (any file) with ./ from command prompt i always get a message like this:

psari@psari-desktop:~/Desktop/Psari$ sudo ./cpp_begin.cpp
sudo: ./cpp_begin.cpp: command not found


what am i doing wrong?

---

### Post by kc1di on 2013-07-05
could you tell us a little more about the file your trying execute?

any file that begins with ./ is a hidden file or hidden directory
and not normally executable. you may have to cd to the directory and execute  what ever file it is from there.
in any event tells us what your trying to do and we should be able to help further.

---

### Post by claracc on 2013-07-05
> **john2100 said:**
> Its probably some stupid mistake of mine but i cant seem to find any leads
When i try opening a file (any file) with ./ from command prompt i always get a message like this:

psari@psari-desktop:~/Desktop/Psari$ sudo ./cpp_begin.cpp
sudo: ./cpp_begin.cpp: command not found


what am i doing wrong?

What do you want to do?, to use cpp command?. If this is the case the name of the command is cpp and then you have to write the name of file you want to process.

Really there isn't a cpp_begin.cpp command as the error indicates.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-07-05
```
sudo ./cpp_begin.cpp
```will try to execute the file cpp_begin.cpp, present in the current directory, with root privileges. The ./ part tells it it has to find the file in the current directory. If you omit the ./ part, sudo will try to find it in your PATH. Sudo can't find the command in your current directory because the file ./cpp_begin.cpp doesn't exist or isn't executable (sudo says "command not found" where bash would say "permission denied"). Most likely this second possibility is the case, as .cpp files are rarely executable. Usually they are C++ source code, which needs to be compiled before it's executable, with the executable file usually having no extension at all.

Edit: If this is about calling the C preprocessor, use a space instead of the **_**. Also, unless you have a special tweaked **cpp** command in your current directory, omit the **./**. Furthermore, using cpp with sudo in your home directory will lead to problems. There should be no reason to use sudo.

---

### Post by wsxadf on 2013-07-05
What you have done by typing
```
sudo ./cpp_begin.cpp
```
is to run a file named cpp_begin.cpp in your directory. ./ is short hand for current directory (in your case ~/Desktop/Psari/), not the hidden file or directory that i know of. Hidden files have . in front of their names.

If you want to look at the source code type
```
vi ./cpp_begin.cpp
```

If you want to compile this c++ code, run
```
gcc ./cpp_begin.cpp
```

It will create the executable file a.out which you can run by typing
```
./a.out
```

---

