---
title: "11.04 Adobe Alternative"
date: 2011-05-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-24
[SIZE=3]First time doing this but put a book in cd form in drive and doesn't want to run not knowing what application. What do I need to do to open and read this book? Don't want to use Adobe.

gumshoe thanks you in advance.
[/SIZE]

---

### Post by yeats on 2011-05-24
If the book is in PDF format, you should be able to open it in evince.  Right click on the file and select Open With... and navigate to /usr/bin/evince.  If it's not in PDF format, can you let us know what format it's in?

---

### Post by dnairb on 2011-05-24
Firstly, let's see what files the CD actually contains. Put the CD in your drive and In terminal, run

```
ls -a /cdrom
```

and post the output here.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-24
> **yeats said:**
> If the book is in PDF format, you should be able to open it in evince.  Right click on the file and select Open With... and navigate to /usr/bin/evince.  If it's not in PDF format, can you let us know what format it's in?

Not sure but will take a look in a day. But thanks for the info and will post later what I find so please check back.

gumshoe

---

### Post by yeats on 2011-05-26
Sorry - wrong thread!

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-28
> **dnairb said:**
> Firstly, let's see what files the CD actually contains. Put the CD in your drive and In terminal, run

```
ls -a /cdrom
```and post the output here.

I typed that command and nothing happens. Goes right back to the $ prompt.

---

### Post by yeats on 2011-05-30
> **gumshoegrant said:**
> I typed that command and nothing happens. Goes right back to the $ prompt.

Sounds like you'll need to do 

```
ls /media/cdrom
```

You should be able to see the files from the Places menu, though - are the files you're trying to view PDFs?

---

