---
title: "10.04 - I found a way to lock it up"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-05-04
I don't know squat about using launchpad or whatever for bug reports, but did want to report something:

I installed 10.04 last Friday.  I have had no complaints at all.  Today I did something rather fluke-ish and did managed to actually "lock-up" my Ubuntu PC - the mouse still moved, but nothing responded to button presses, key presses, etc., and I had to actually press the reset button on my PC (the first with me using Ubuntu).

Here's what the sequence was:

I rebooted the PC.  Network manager came up and said not connected to any networks.  Normally it asks for my keyring password and then connects, but this time it was taking forever and never asked (keyword here: yet).  So, I clicked on network manager and wanted to connect to my network (hidden essid).  Right when it had opened the pop-down showing my network as one of the hidden networks, up pops the keyring password prompt.  This is where everything stopped responding except moving the mouse.

I would think that normally this wouldn't happen, but the thing is that is obviously possible, and that possibility leads to a lock-up.

Didn't know who would want to know and how.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-05-04
Can you try and recreate this? I'd be more then happy to give you instructions on filing a bug report.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-05-05
I'll try my best - may take a while.  I'll post back when I can it duplicated.

---

