---
title: "In 12.10 is there Language Support for entering complex characters?"
date: 2012-12-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by swarup on 2012-12-31
In previous Ubuntu distributions, under "Language Support" there was always a box to check to "enable support to input complex characters". If one wanted to used Input Method Engines (IME) such as SCIM, one would check this box. It is needed for typing in any of the Asian languages such as Chinese, Thai, the Indian languages, etc. In Ubuntu 12.10 that option is no longer listed in Language Support. So is there some other place or some other way to enable support for typing complex characters in 12.10?

---

### Post by swarup on 2013-01-01
Sorry to bump this issue, but it is a critical one. I am not getting anything about this in my google search. There must be others wanting to write Asian languages in Ubuntu 12.10. For that one needs the option for enabling complex characters, but it is not there under "Language Support", where it always was in previous ubuntu distributions...help!

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-01-01
When I go to System Settings>Language Support (on 12.10) I see a label that says "keyboard imput method system." Along side it is a drop down menu. On my machine the menu is set to "default." I can change that to 'ibus' or 'none.'

You will also find Input Method Switcher in the Ubuntu Software Centre. You may find that some of these things are activated by default when we install another language or add a keyboard layout for that language.

Regards.

---

### Post by swarup on 2013-01-01
Yes, the keyboard input method system is one thing. That is a separate matter from the question of enabling complex characters. One selects an input method system from the drop-down menu to which you refer. But in that same Language Support window, in 12.04 and all previous Ubuntu distributions for the past several years, there was *another*, separately listed option for enabling complex character input. It has a box next to it which one ticks. That option is critically needed, otherwise none of the Asian languages appear as options when goes to type something in any word processor.

---

