---
title: "7.10 - Recover Password"
date: 2014-03-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by muzicman82 on 2014-03-12
Hi all,

Please forgive my noobie questions here. I haven't touched linux in around 10 years. 

I recently got a Niveus AV Storage Server NAS back from a client. Niveus no longer exists so I can't ask them for the root or user password for the unit. They configured everything for the end user. I want to repurpose this NAS, but it does need new hard drives. It does boot and everything but I wanted to get in to back up the Linux install. It's a little complicated to do since it sets up a RAID. 

When I get the Grub bootloader, I hit ESC and get the menu. There, it indicates it runs Ubuntu 7.10, probably with a custom kernel for this unit. I have tried some other tutorials on the web to edit the boot sequence. Once tutorial said to edit the kernel boot line, change RO to RW, and add init=/bin/bash. Apparently it can't find bash so I get a initramfs prompt or something. Does this image really not have bash? or is it just hidden somewhere?

Any pointers here? What are the minimum commands lines I can/should use to get into this machine?

The motherboard is a VIA EPIA-SN.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2014-03-12
Instead of /bin/bash, try /bin/sh

Sh is the generic name for 'the default shell'. Bash is a specific shell that may very well not be present.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2014-03-12
> so I can't ask them for the root or user password for the unit

Based on this and your thread title, it looks like you are trying to recover the password for accessing this unit.

Sorry, but as far as I know, there is no way to do that.

There are ways to remove/blank passwords, but the forums rules indicate we're NOT to tell folks how to do that.

If what you really want to do is completely reformat the NAS so you can use it, I recommend you change your thread title to indicate that.

---

