---
title: "compiz not working, only 2 screen resoulutions, no whitelisted driver??? help me!"
date: 2008-06-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by SchindlerShadow on 2008-06-30
OK i just installed Ubuntu and i then realized that the screen resolution is really low! this never happened to me b4 and to make things worse compiz says desktop effects could not be enabled! i tryed going to hardwhere drivers but it says that my comp dosent need any third party drivers! i looked around the internet and found some1 with almost the same problem as me, some1 suggested going to termanal an putting "lspci | grep VGA" w/o quotes, i did it and it sayed "01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 [S3 UniChrome] Integrated Video (rev 01)" im guessing that this is my vid card or something?? plz help me because i love Ubuntu and i hate that dreaded micro$oft! as a matter of fact the reason i switched is because a virus completely destroyed my windows xp! i happened to look @ the internet news and i saw that bill gates said that Linux is better than windows!i did have a past experience w/ Ubuntu, but it was a long time ago..... anyway, any help is much appreciated!! ty! oh and i did everything on this page [https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/37708](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/37708) but nothing worked.... :confused:
oh and i also have the same problom on my hp laptop!

---

### Post by Darkade on 2008-06-30
try booting into recovery mode and when you are asked select "Fix X server"
I had just the same problem and it fixed by doing that

---

### Post by SchindlerShadow on 2008-06-30
i did that..... nothing happened! but ty 4 posting!

---

### Post by novatotal on 2008-06-30
do not know anything of your video card but, have you tried doing click with right button on the two squares on the lower right corner?
for the cube to apear you must have at least 4 squares, and doing click you get the option of how many desktops you want.
if ubuntu tells you it doesn'tneed other driver better believe it!!!
search the thread compiz intel gma 950 the simplest solution!!!
before that and trying to start compiz ended having to reinstall

---

### Post by SchindlerShadow on 2008-06-30
no it says desktop effects could not be activated when i try to put desktop effects from appearances! :(

---

### Post by Ptero-4 on 2008-06-30
AFAIK. The VIA S3 unichrome cannot do compiz.

---

### Post by SchindlerShadow on 2008-06-30
what? is that mine?

---

### Post by Sonic Reducer on 2008-06-30
what kind of video card do you have? if it's an ATI or nVidia i would install envy-ng and give that a spin. the drivers for my nVidia card are much better than the ones included with ubuntu by default

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-06-30
Your video card simply does not support compiz fusion.  Sorry.  In general you need an ATI, Nvidia, or Intel card to use compiz.

---

### Post by SchindlerShadow on 2008-06-30
how do i know what vid card i have???

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-06-30
With the command you already ran
```
lspci | grep VGA
```
In your first post it said "VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 [S3 UniChrome] Integrated Video (rev 01)"

---

### Post by SchindlerShadow on 2008-07-01
ohh lol ok but what about the screen resolution? y it cant go any higher? it wont go any higher than 800 X 600! it wasent like this last time!

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-07-01
Can you please post your xorg.conf file?
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
We may need to manually add the "sis" driver.

---

### Post by SchindlerShadow on 2008-07-01
i did it and this is what it gave me ... 
 cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

idk wat all this means but tell me wats wrong! thx!

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-07-01
OK, let's make a backup of xorg.conf
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```
Open the file for editing with
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Where it says
```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```
Add the Driver line so it now looks like this:
```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "sis"
EndSection
```
Save and close, then restart X with CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE

It is possible that this solution will not work with the newer version of X that Hardy uses, but its a good place to start.  You can always undo the changes later if it breaks X.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-07-01
If you've already tried System>Prefs>Screen Resolution

Then in this situation I would use 

system>prefs>Main Menu

Look under the Other menu and tick "Screens and Graphics"

Then use this menu option to try and sort your resolution.

---

### Post by SchindlerShadow on 2008-07-02
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> OK, let's make a backup of xorg.conf
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```
Open the file for editing with
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Where it says
```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```
Add the Driver line so it now looks like this:
```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "sis"
EndSection
```
Save and close, then restart X with CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE

It is possible that this solution will not work with the newer version of X that Hardy uses, but its a good place to start.  You can always undo the changes later if it breaks X.

i tryed it, it dident work at all! x dident even show up! i tryed start x but it gave me an errer!i had to fix x in recovery mode just to make it work agein! thx 4 trying. any more suggestions? oh and sorry it took me so long to write back, i was working. :)

---

### Post by SchindlerShadow on 2008-07-02
> **philinux said:**
> If you've already tried System>Prefs>Screen Resolution

Then in this situation I would use 

system>prefs>Main Menu

Look under the Other menu and tick "Screens and Graphics"

Then use this menu option to try and sort your resolution.

sorry 4 dubble posting! i obviously tried that 1st. :lolflag:  thx anyway!:confused:

---

### Post by SchindlerShadow on 2008-07-02
lol gess what? some1 over at lunchpad solved it! thx for helpin me ppl! :lolflag: oh and sorry for tripple posting! :KS :KS :KS :KS :KS

---

