---
title: "9.04 Should I update when available?"
date: 2009-04-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Turbojoe on 2009-04-21
I have Ubuntu 8.10 and have it working OK for day to day operation including internet and e-mail. I still have to boot back to Windows XP to run games or anything GPU intensive. I'm ABSOLUTELY not a geek and am lost with most of the command line gobbledygook that many like to post to make things work. When Linux can make self installing .exe programs like Windows does then Microsoft will cease to be profitable. Linux will then put Bill Gates in the poor house next to me! Is this a dream that I don't have to wake from?

Joe

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-04-21
Hi Turbojoe,

If you are happy with Intrepid Ibex and have everything set the way you like it I would advise that you stay exactly where you are. Intrepid will be supported until April 2010 after all.

All the best,

Andrew

---

### Post by qwertyuiop96 on 2009-04-21
Theoretically, everything (settings wise) shouldn't change.  I upgraded, and everything still worked.  But everones different.

---

### Post by jose187 on 2009-04-21
I've read here in the forum that some people are having problems with the upgrade. Personally i went from 8.1 to 9.04 with no problems at all. 

The new system found all my drives, and kept my Compiz configurations the way i had it before (except for a few things here and there - but nothing major).

I did this for my old laptop, and my new desktop, which has a Nvidia 9500.

But as I said, others have had problems. Always a risk.

---

### Post by DGortze380 on 2009-04-21
Though supported, upgrading is not the preferred method of migrating to a new release. It is suggested that you back up all important file and do a complete reinstall.

If you like how your system is now, I suggest you do not upgrade, your release will be supported or quite some time. If you do choose to upgrade, I suggest you back up all your files and be prepared to reinstall if the upgrade fails.

---

### Post by Turbojoe on 2009-04-21
Things are not 100% the way I'd like them as far as drivers go. Especially video drivers. 

I want to abandon Windows completely if at all possible. I'm maybe 25% more capable than your normal lost in space Windows user. Still way behind in the Linux area though. I'd love the installation to hold my hand through the entire upgrade/install process. When they can emulate Windows moron capability they can put Microsoft out of business!

Joe

---

### Post by steve101101 on 2009-04-21
i have done a migration on one computer as well as a fresh install and love them both

---

### Post by Windows_suckz on 2009-04-21
the beta is acting up with the INTERNET it will just stall after about half a page i recommend you stay with 8.10

---

### Post by steve101101 on 2009-04-21
> **Windows_suckz said:**
> the beta is acting up with the INTERNET it will just stall after about half a page i recommend you stay with 8.10

i have never had an issue. but if you have a working distro there is really not many improvements so you can always be safe

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-04-21
> **Turbojoe said:**
> When Linux can make self installing .exe programs like Windows does then Microsoft will cease to be profitable. Linux will then put Bill Gates in the poor house next to me!

I'd like to put this **myth** to bed for the last time!

The .exe programs that you speak of are actually a collection of files put into a format that Windows can execute. When the .exe file executes, it then extracts the files and "installs" them.

There is nothing the slightest bit "special" about this procedure.

A .deb file can do **exactly the same thing!!!**

So can a .rpm in fedora.

So, I repeat again, there is **nothing the slightest bit special installing from a .exe file.**

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-04-21
If you do upgrade, I'd suggest backing up and formatting ext4. Jaunty is faster and you have a new login screen. If you don't want the hassle, stick with Intrepid.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-04-21
> **Turbojoe said:**
> When Linux can make self installing .exe programs like Windows does then Microsoft will cease to be profitable.

Old old old. Binary installers (of the sort that is usually called "setup.exe" on Windows) are the easiest, most basic sort of installer possible; and some companies do use them on Linux.

Binary installers are unsophisticated; if you use them to remove a program, you can safely bet that they won't clean out all the parts of the program. They will install libraries that you already have five copies of, and even if they don't then they still contain those libraries meaning a big download for you. There's a reason why the iTunes installer, for instance, is more than twice as big as the .deb package for Amarok.

It's also well-known that a binary that has been compiled for one CPU architecture will not run on another CPU architecture. Windows has big problems in this regard: not everything works with 64-bit Windows because of the architecture change, even though 64-bit processors can run 32-bit binaries. Windows for Itanium processors is in a worse state; almost nothing runs on it because almost everything is distributed as i386 binary.

Linux runs on something like twelve different architectures, so source code is the lowest common denominator. That's why source code is so often distributed, because it will work with anything. Plus it's more efficient and can work better than a simple binary installer.

Second-lastly, Microsoft doesn't have any say in how program developers package their programs; so don't give Microsoft the credit for binary installers, and don't give Apple the credit for "open the disk image and drag the folder to the Applications directory".

Finally, it's naive to think that there are hoardes of Windows users who are waiting to switch to Linux "as soon as I can install a program by double-clicking a binary installer". The current system of repositories and package managers works very well and Linux users are happy with it.

---

### Post by steve101101 on 2009-04-22
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Finally, it's naive to think that there are hoardes of Windows users who are waiting to switch to Linux "as soon as I can install a program by double-clicking a binary installer". The current system of repositories and package managers works very well and Linux users are happy with it.

+1

People usually want an easy solution. Windows while it has flaws is great for someone who wants it to work out of the box.

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2009-04-22
Linux is not Windows nor is it like Windows...Thank God! Read this : [http://linux.oneandoneis2.org/LNW.htm](http://linux.oneandoneis2.org/LNW.htm)

My advice: forget windows and learn Linux. It is not fair to compare the two because you are comparing apples to oranges.

---

### Post by Godly on 2009-04-22
Go with your gut. Do it, do you have anything to lose?

---

### Post by N_Nick on 2009-04-22
> **Godly said:**
> Go with your gut. Do it, do you have anything to lose?

+1

I had a "perfect" 8.10 Ubuntu setup too but i chose to upgrade to Jaunty RC.
First upgrade i did and it was a breeze.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-04-22
> **Turbojoe said:**
> Things are not 100% the way I'd like them as far as drivers go. Especially video drivers. 

I want to abandon Windows completely if at all possible. I'm maybe 25% more capable than your normal lost in space Windows user. Still way behind in the Linux area though. I'd love the installation to hold my hand through the entire upgrade/install process. When they can emulate Windows moron capability they can put Microsoft out of business!

Joe

The video drivers are a mess right now in Jaunty so do not do it for that reason. Wait a while and lurk the forums until everything you are concerned about is resolved to your satisfaction.

I still use 8.04LTS for my main install. It will be supported until 11.04, is very stable and gets regular security updates and backport fixes for unresolved mostly hardware problems.

Intrepid and Jaunty are sort of stepping stone releases on the way to Koala 9.10 which will also be a LTS and will incorporate some sweeping changes to the way things work so you may want to upgrade to jaunty in a while and then to Koala some time after it comes out.

No distribution is really stable until some time after it is released. This is because the tester community is small and it is impossible to test every hardware configuration out there. This only comes when the user community is very large which occurs after release.

---

### Post by arvevans on 2009-04-22
Just this morning did the upgrade from 8.10 to 9.04, with no problems.  It took about 3 hours at 1.5 mb/s sub-rate DSL speeds.  There were no unexpected happenings, and everything works after the upgrade.

Thanks,
_._

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-04-22
> **markbuntu said:**
> Intrepid and Jaunty are sort of stepping stone releases on the way to Koala 9.10 which will also be a LTS ......

No it's not. [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases)

Release October 2009, end of life April 2011.

That's not an LTS.

---

