---
title: "11.04 MPD install"
date: 2011-06-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GraphiteHemi on 2011-06-28
New to linux came from Wi****s.

How do I go about setting up MPD on my Ubuntu PC so I can play music on my android? I installed the gnome (gmpc) interface option, but do I need to compile the base MPD software? How do I go about doing that?

Thanks!

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-06-29
I use my Android as an mp3 player, I just use a file manager to transfer mp3's to the internal sd card.

If you are trying to do something else please let us know.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-06-29
MPD wouldn't do a lot to help you play music on your Android device.

It would allow you to control the music playing on your computer from the android device, but getting the sound to actually output from the Android device is a bit more tricky thing.

(sure, MPD combined with some audio streaming server like Icecast would work, but might not be worth the trouble if there's any simpler way to accomplish what you want)

Anyway, no, you don't need to compile MPD. It's available in Ubuntu's repositories. And yes, you ened to install MPD to use MPD, just installing a client like GMPC won't do anything.

---

### Post by mpiter on 2011-07-18
Streaming music from your computer to your Android device is easy.  First, install mpd from the Ubuntu repository:

```
aptitude install mpd
```

Second, configure [COLOR="SeaGreen"]/etc/mpd.conf[/COLOR].  See my post in that thread to know how to do that ([[COLOR="Blue"]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11059410#post11059410[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11059410#post11059410")).

Then, install MPDroid from the Android market.  I tested several MPD client for Android, and it is by far the best one I saw.  Configuring MPDroid is straightforward.  Just enter your MPD server IP for remote control and for streaming.  Choose the output you want (in my case, ALSA Device to play the music on my computer and HTTP Stream  to stream the music on my Android phone).  Press the play button and choose [COLOR="SeaGreen"]Streaming[/COLOR] in the menu if you want the music streamed to your Android device.

---

