---
title: "10.04 running slow on acer laptop"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jozza800 on 2010-05-05
I am completely new to linux, so be gentle!

I have installed 10.04 Netbook on an -

Acer Aspire 5715z
1.6ghz Intel Dual Core CPU
2GB Ram
80gb HDD
Intel GFX X3100

Everything appears to work straight out of the box, (wireless, sound etc) But...

There is a very definite slow down issue when in and around the desktop, selecting options on the left and waiting for the resulting window to appear takes a good 10 - 15 seconds.

Once an actual application is open and running (Office, firefox etc) the application runs absolutely fine, but as soon as I go back to the desktop the lag returns.

I have checked the System monitor and there is nothing hogging the system.

**I can get the desktop to run as it should after doing the System Test (usually the last test (video), and it stays snappy up until I try to play a video using Movie Player. When it then goes back to being extremely slow.**

I have restarted the system on numerous occasions and have reinstalled the OS on a couple of occasions and still the problem exists.

I havn't updated drivers or anything like that as at the mo I am not sure how to. Its quite a difference from windows!!

Any ideas?

Thanks

---

### Post by mistypotato on 2010-05-05
Have you installed any kind of Desktop Graphics enhancement software to make your desktop look prettier?

---

### Post by jozza800 on 2010-05-05
Nope, 

default theme, and the visual effects are set to none. The other options are greyed out.

---

### Post by madjr on 2010-05-05
hmm i know netbooks are slower than laptops but this sounds weird :0

does this happen with any other ubuntu version or other linux distro?

---

### Post by hartunnoo on 2010-05-11
Yeah I'm agree with jozza800, wierd, but how to remove those things... main menu stuff..
anyone knows ?

---

### Post by Konehead on 2010-08-06
Same experience here! just installed 10.04 on a LG (LGE5) Laptop.... Pentium M 1.73 Ghz, 512 MB DDR2 Ram, Sata HDD.  Everything works out of the box but man this distro is a slow cripple! I can confirm the laggy issues with the Gnome UI. Nothing is hogging up resources here either! I have been playing/ using Ubuntu since Dapper Drake and was always happy and positive about the distro, until now!  If no one cna find a fix for this very soon I will be wiping this Laptop clean again and swap to Fedora  :(
BTW: this was a clean install, All HDD space for Ubuntu with default EXT4 file system one 20GB root partition, 15GB /home partition and 5GB /swap... Oh, and I used the .i386 iso package...
Anybody having a fix for this?

Thanks...
Konehead

---

### Post by What Rights on 2010-08-06
I would ditch the netbook edition and go for a normal one.

---

### Post by Konehead on 2010-08-06
Thanks, but in my case it is the normal / full version of Lucid...

---

