---
title: "8.04  Hardy Choppy sound on Maelstrom"
date: 2008-06-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2008-06-10
Hi All,

I seem to have sound working properly on games such as Help hanna's horse as well as web sites such as youtube. It seems to be very choppy with my favorite game Maelstrom. I can barely hear the sound in the background but the foreground is at best what I can describe as choppy.  Had a bad day at work and am in the mood to shoot up some Asteroids, sooo.... any help would be appreciated.
Does anyone know how I can determine if this is a glitch in the software or something else??

---

### Post by gr4nf on 2008-06-10
I loved that game! had it on my old mac about 5 years ago :)

I just got it with apt-get, and the sound is fine for me. try:
```

sudo apt-get install maelstrom

```

---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2008-06-10
I had installed it through synaptic, then re-installed it also through synaptic... Still bad sound... 
It tried it through terminal, this is what I got....
jonas@Ubuntu4:~$ sudo apt-get install maelstrom
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
maelstrom is already the newest version.
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  mesa-common-dev libglu1-mesa-dev libgl1-mesa-dev
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 6 not upgraded.
jonas@Ubuntu4:~$

---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2008-06-10
Still no luck on getting the sound working on Maelstrom..  In the meantime I just tried Extreme Tux Racer.... Suprising fun game to play with a 5 yearold.. Sound works great... on that game, still no luck on Maelstrom... Does anyone have any thoughts??

---

