---
title: "18.04: Flashing Line At Bottom Of Screen"
date: 2020-03-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wpwend42 on 2020-03-29
Since yesterday I have had a flashing line at the bottom of the screen in all apps. The flashing is very distracting. I saw a post online saying to switch to Ubuntu on Wayland and that resolved it, but now it is back again. What could be the issue here? Should I log into Wayland instead each day. Otherwise this laptop has been fine for the past 1.5 years.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-03-29
I can't picture what you're describing but certainly it has something to do with graphics and drivers.

If Wayland works for you there's no reason not to use it. It will likely became the default soon.

---

### Post by wpwend42 on 2020-03-29
Okay I can switch to Wayland. 

I KNOW and if I take a pic of it with my phone or do a screengrab, it is really hard to even see.

---

### Post by wpwend42 on 2020-03-29
[ATTACH=CONFIG]285347[/ATTACH]

Okay I got a pic. I hope it's visible to others.

---

### Post by QIII on 2020-03-29
Is that image using Wayland?  Are you saying that the behavior does not occur with Wayland but does otherwise?

I, for one, do not hope Wayland will be the default soon.  So long as the Wayland developers continue their unilateral attitude that "users should not be doing this" and "users should not need to do that", I won't support Wayland.  As soon as the Wayland developers accept that they are not the arbiters of who should be doing what with their systems, I might get behind Wayland.

A new, shiny car that does not let me turn right because the designers believe I shouldn't need to turn right is of no use to me -- even if I am experienced enough to know I should not turn right.

---

### Post by wpwend42 on 2020-03-29
OH that image is from regular Ubuntu 18.04...sorry!

So far doesn't occur in Wayland

---

### Post by wpwend42 on 2020-04-03
Just to update it seems switching to Wayland solved the issue.

---

### Post by wpwend42 on 2020-04-11
Unfortunately even in Wayland the blinking line is still coming back from time to time.

---

### Post by benighted8393 on 2020-04-11
If your laptop has an available connection, try using an external monitor and observe if the same problem appears. You can try changing display settings like reducing the resolution and refresh rates, however I don't think any of that will fix your issue: It really looks and sounds more like a hardware problem; likely an intermittent connection internal to the display module itself. You could try opening the laptop, and checking the display module system board connector; possibly cleaning the contacts with at least 70% rubbing alcohol. I suspect none of that will work, and you may just have to just replace the display. You can get replacements from a number of online suppliers.

---

### Post by wpwend42 on 2020-04-11
Wow, that is really disappointing at this laptop is barely two years old. I paid good money for this System76 laptop, so that is frustrating. 

If I reboot, it DOES go away. Will it get worse at all?

---

### Post by VMC on 2020-04-12
Why not try another installation to see if its related to Ubuntu. Does it happen using Windows? If you can pin it down to an OS, then eliminate hardware.

off-topic:: QIII's response surprises me. I wasn't aware the Wayland developers were that controlling.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2020-04-12
I also think it makes sense to test a number of OS's before opening the hardware. How is Wayland behaving in a live boot of Ubuntu 20.04?

---

### Post by wpwend42 on 2020-04-14
Anyone? Is this is an issue that can just be solved via resetting?

---

### Post by wpwend42 on 2020-04-14
> **VMC said:**
> Why not try another installation to see if its related to Ubuntu. Does it happen using Windows? If you can pin it down to an OS, then eliminate hardware.

off-topic:: QIII's response surprises me. I wasn't aware the Wayland developers were that controlling.

This isn't a duel boot system. It's a System76 laptop

But about my earlier question: Will this laptop stop working at some point if this isn't corrected? Rebooting seems to fix it so far.

---

### Post by VMC on 2020-04-14
Download xubuntu and create a bootable usb flash out of it.  Then boot using Xubuntu usb. See if the "flashing line" is there.

---

