---
title: "14.04 - reboot and Select proper Boot device following kernel upgrade"
date: 2014-10-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by miraclemaker1 on 2014-10-27
Hi guys.
I was installing some updates via apt a couple of days ago and it told me there was an old version of the kernel ready to uninstall. I did so an it finished up with a message along the lines of:

The link /initrd.img.old is a damaged link
Removing symbolic link initrd.img.old 
 you may need to re-run your boot loader[grub]
 
I googled this and came across this page:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/518997/how-do-i-re-run-boot-loader](http://askubuntu.com/questions/518997/how-do-i-re-run-boot-loader)

Which advised to run sudo update-grub

I did this, rebooted and now I'm getting the message:

reboot and select proper Boot device or Insert Boot Media in selected Boot Device and press a key

I was able to get a command prompt by booting from a live CD. I ran the update-grub command again and it gave the following output:

Generating grub configuration file ...
Warning: Setting GRUB_TIMEOUT to a non-zero value when GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT is set is no longer supported.
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.13.0-031300-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-3.13.0-031300-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.13.0-37-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-3.13.0-37-generic
done

This seemed positive, but when I reboot I still get the same error message about proper boot device.

I have downloaded and ran Boot-Repair-Disk as specified here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)

I put this onto a USB stick with UnetBootin but unfortunately my machine doesn't even see this as a bootable drive, it was booting from the same usb stick where I had a Ubuntu 14.04 installed as a live usb and that was working fine. I also tried using another program "LinuxLive USB Creator" to set it up on the USB and it gave the same result. 

Any assistance much appreciated - thanks!

---

### Post by miraclemaker1 on 2014-11-09
I got boor repair disk working. Here is the disk summary before it made changes:

[http://paste.ubuntu.com/8902716](http://paste.ubuntu.com/8902716)

After running it stated that the boot was repaired successfully. However I still receive the "reboot and select proper boot device" when trying to boot frm the hard disk.

Here's the boot summary after Boor Repair Disk made changes:

[http://paste.ubuntu.com/8902804](http://paste.ubuntu.com/8902804)

Boor repair disk stated that my drive is EFI. It also stated that I should "Make sure your bios boot on sda1/EFI/ubuntu/grubx64.afi". I don't know how to do this. I have set the machine to boot from that disk (it's the only disk installed), but I don't see how I can get it to boot from a specific file?

Thanks.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-11-09
Are you trying to boot in BIOS boot mode? Or do you still have secure boot on?
Make sure you have UEFI set to boot in UEFI mode but with secure boot off.

Both Windows and Ubuntu are in UEFI boot mode, so MBR is empty and you have no BIOS boot.
Windows only boots in UEFI mode from gpt partitioned drives, and best to have Ubuntu in UEFI boot mode also. 

Or you should never turn on BIOS/CSM/Legacy boot mode.

But you have a core.img in your efi partition, which is normally from grub-pc which is only for BIOS boot. It normally is (hidden) in the bios_grub partition with gpt or in the sectors after the MBR in MBR partitioning.

And you have a strange kernel name with -031300, did you compile your own kernel?

Grub says it did this, so you should have an ubuntu entry in UEFI boot menu. 
What brand, model computer?

 Registering with EFI: distributor = `ubuntu', path = `EFIubuntugrubx64.efi', ESP at hostdisk//dev/sda,gpt1.

---

### Post by miraclemaker1 on 2014-11-09
I've tried running boot repair a couple more times and although it's saying it was successful the machine still will not boot. In addition the original "reboot and select proper boot device" message is also saying "Missing Operating system". Latest boot Info is here:
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/8904371](http://paste.ubuntu.com/8904371)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-11-09
You must have booted Boot-Repair in BIOS mode. Do not do that.

But now you installed Windows BIOS boot loaders to the protective MBR that gpt has. While Ubuntu could boot using the protective MBR in BIOS mode Windows cannot.

What brand/model computer? Some only boot Windows as they (against UEFI standard) modify UEFI to only boot the UEFI entry with "Windows" in it.

But you must have UEFI set to boot in UEFI boot mode with secure boot off. Many systems will boot ubuntu entry in UEFI boot menu or boot using one time boot key often f12 or f10.

---

### Post by miraclemaker1 on 2014-11-10
Thank you so much for your reply and assistance oldfred!

> While Ubuntu could boot using the protective MBR in BIOS mode Windows cannot.
I do not have windows installed on this machine, only Ubuntu. The other disk you can see in the report (sdb) is the usb key I had inserted which I was booting Boot Repair Disk from. Ubuntu is not able to boot when I remove the usb key.

> What brand/model computer? Some only boot Windows as they (against UEFI  standard) modify UEFI to only boot the UEFI entry with "Windows" in it.
This is a PC I have built myslf with an ASUS E35M1-I DELUXE motherboards. Ubuntu was loading fine until I performed a kernel upgrade recently and broke something.

In the BIOS when I look at available boot devices (with the USB key inserted) I can see the USB key listed with UEFI next to it, however the hard disk where Ubuntu is installed does not have UEFI, just p0. Previously there was an option along the lines of 'UEFI - first hard disk' (I can't remember exactly), but that has now disappeared.

It's quite possible that I ran Boot Repair Disk at some point in legacy mode rather than UEFI :-(

Thanks.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-11-10
I & Boot-Repair sees the left over Windows efi folder & boot files in efi partition.
Did you also do a UEFI/BIOS update?

If a separate motherboard I would not think they modify UEFI for only Windows, but I have a new Asus AR board and had to make many UEFI/CSM settings to get to to boot in UEFI mode. It has a Windows or other setting which I think is just secure boot on or off. And all the rest of the UEFI settings were under the CSM sub-menu. And I had to change to *UEFI only* not *UEFI or CSM with UEFI first* to be able to even boot flash drive in UEFI mode. 

Often the fix for the Windows only UEFI is to copy grubx64.efi to the /Boot folder and rename bootx64.efi and change grubx64.efi to bootx64.efi. The bootx64.efi is the hard drive boot entry in UEFI and then you actually boot grub.
Other fixes are to rename the Windows efi file and use efibootmgr to rename the UEFI entry for ubuntu/grub to read "Windows". 
If you already had the rename of bootx64.efi and you updated grub, perhaps then old version of grub does not work?

Summary of various UEFI work arounds:
       [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2234019](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2234019)

---

### Post by miraclemaker1 on 2014-11-10
Sorry, to clarify - this machine has never had windows installed on it. I installed Ubuntu onto the empty hard disk.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-11-10
Did you then manually create the Windows efi folder?
And then is bootmfgw.efi really a copy of grub?
And having bootx64.efi in Microsoft folder is unusual, as is the core.img file in /boot/grub.
There are other ways to configure booting from efi partition

>     Boot files:        /EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi /EFI/ubuntu/grubx64.efi 
                       /EFI/Microsoft/Boot/bootmgfw.efi 
                       /EFI/Microsoft/Boot/bootx64.efi 
                       /boot/grub/i386-pc/core.img


---

### Post by miraclemaker1 on 2014-11-11
> Did you then manually create the Windows efi folder?
No I didn't manually create anything.

> And then is bootmfgw.efi really a copy of grub?
I don't know, would Boot Repair Disk have created this?

> There are other ways to configure booting from efi partition
Yes but how to I get the PC to boot one of those?

I found another option in my BIOS (I've never had to use it before though) and it says 'Launch efi shell from filesystem device'. The description is:

Attempt to launch efi shell application (Shell64.efi) from one of the available filesystem devices.

When I try this option the PC reboots and then I get a message popuop that says 'Not found'.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-11-11
Boot-Repair would not have created the Windows folder in the efi. But if found, it may have renamed it and made grub be that file. 

Do not know much about shell. 
I think that is a way for UEFI to modify its settings. But then it needs the shell
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFIBooting#UEFI_Shell](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFIBooting#UEFI_Shell)

Have you tried any of the work arounds suggested above.

---

### Post by miraclemaker1 on 2014-11-13
I'm starting to think that boot repair installed the EFI stuff because I ran the Boot Repair disk live USB via UEFI, and that has screwed things up further - I have /boot directories on both partitions now. I think my best bet is just to reinstall, I've wasted days on this now.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-11-13
Boot-Repair and how you boot installer & then Boot-Repair does not create and efi partition or the bios_grub partition. But Boot-Repair will use those partitions to install grub in UEFI mode or in BIOS mode on gpt partitioned drives. Grub installs the /efi/ubuntu folders in the efi partition. Boot-Repair only renames existing files.

Boot-Repair does very little on its own. It is just a combination of report, update, repair & install scripts that if we wanted to manually update system by posting terminal commands would do the same.

---

