---
title: "9.04 around the corner, some questions."
date: 2009-04-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Mortus Pryde on 2009-04-17
With the release 9.04 just around the corner, and potentially being my first Kernal transition, it seems to be the right time to ask some questions. I have Ubuntu 8.10 installed on my T42 right now with the proprietory driver installed, and really nothing else of consiquence. I have been holding off doing too much on it as I am still getting my feet wet and did not want to loose anything important if I did anything disasterous.

Now first questions for those that have beta tested it, how is it? Do you feel the 9.04 release will be "Ready for prime time." at release or should I hold off for a little while before moving up?

Second if I did move up, what would be the biggest changes or fixes I would notice?

I noticed that the last LTS version had a X.04 version number, will 9.04 be a LTS version as well, is that decided yet, if not going forward how will I know which releases will be LTS?

---

### Post by SentientFluid on 2009-04-17
9.04 will not be an LTS version, no.  Mark Shuttleworth said LTS releases will come every "2 - 3 years" and that he was thinking 10.04 should be the next one.  However their's talk about co-ordinating releases with other distros and the next may be moved to 10.10.

Here's the [release notes]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/904") for 9.04 which document the known issues with it (and variants). Good place to start.

---

### Post by Mortus Pryde on 2009-04-17
Well, the list of bugs seems discouraging, but I have also seen threads that say that the 9.04 RC is great and a big step up but little detail to go on in most comments so obviously leave me a little suspect.

---

### Post by NESFreak on 2009-04-17
> **Mortus Pryde said:**
> Well, the list of bugs seems discouraging, but I have also seen threads that say that the 9.04 RC is great and a big step up but little detail to go on in most comments so obviously leave me a little suspect.

it's not for nothing named a release candidate. Most bugs should be fixed when it finally releases. Though i'd still recommend you to backup any data of importance. ALWAYS. just in case. Doesn't matter whether you're using linux, windows, os x. You'll never forgive yourself if you lost half your thesis.

---

### Post by Mortus Pryde on 2009-04-17
Lucky nothing of importance. ;) Even that which is marginally important is still safe and sound on the origional hard drive containing the origional XP install, nothing there that I have been missing yet.

Eventually my main main may get a dual boot, but that is just because it is my TV, DVD Player, Stereo, Main SL/OL machine, and day to day general use system. Want to make sure I can get Ubuntu to do all that at least as well as XP before I let Ubuntu loose on all 80GB of my operating hard drive.

---

### Post by Mercury_Alpha on 2009-04-17
You may want to consider installing 9.04 in a virtual machine (VM) like VirtualBox. I did that myself recently, so I could play around with the OS without worries. The "OSE" version of VirtualBox available in the repositories is okay, [but I recommend getting the xVM version]("http://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Linux_Downloads"), which is legit for personal use.

It's really handy to have a VM installed and running Windows (and various flavors of Linux). That way you can run something that requires Windows without having to reboot into Windows itself (as long as this something doesn't require 3D acceleration, which is not fully implemented in Vbox). And you can test out other flavors of Linux (and BSD, for that matter) without having to partition your hard drive space. Instead, the space in your /home directory is used, and the virtual partition is stored there as a large file.

---

