---
title: "screen stuck at 640x340 after installing nvdia driver"
date: 2008-12-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by j.miller565 on 2008-12-19
well after installing the nvidia driver 96...... the 2 screen resolutions i get now is 540x340 and 340xsomething. The screen usually takes 1024x768 but for some reason i can't change this in nvidia-settings. oh yea here is my xorg.conf:


```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:46 UTC 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select @1024x768 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

Cheers,


J.Miller565

EDIT: I know the card is working properly because Compiz is running smoothly. Something is wrong with the screen res and the monitor. Monitor is ACER AL506

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2008-12-19
It looks like you've got a wrong installation, lets reset xorg:

[COLOR=Red]If you havent done "xfix" before read the whole post!
[COLOR=Black]This is done in a few easy steps:

1. You can use this command:
[/COLOR][/COLOR]```
sudo shutdown now
```or.....

1. You can reboot, and when grub is loading hit ESC and choose to boot up in rescue mode (or whatever it is called)

2. You navigate with your arrow keys, and select with "enter" button. Go to "xfix" and hit enter.

3. When it is finshed select "resume normal boot", the computer will either shut down or move to lok in screen.

4. Use an application as "Hardware Drivers" or "EnvyNg" to install the driver, use the driver that is recommended

NOTE: Gorillaz....yeah!

---

### Post by j.miller565 on 2008-12-19
Ok doing that now thanks gjoellee hope this works

---

### Post by j.miller565 on 2008-12-19
Nope same thing happens :(

---

### Post by j.miller565 on 2008-12-19
bump

---

### Post by igknighted on 2008-12-20
People read more than the first page... please don't bump unless it has been over 24hrs, or you are adding new information.

I don't use the nvidia driver, so I can't really offer any help on this issue.

You may have better luck with this in a more focused subforum (multimedia/videa, for example), or even the nvidia site itself has a message board.

It also couldn't hurt to post more information, such as what video card you have and other system specs, as well as what nvidia driver and version you installed, as well as what method you used to attempt to install it.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-12-20
What version of ubuntu are you using?
If Hardy 8.04 then try the command ```
gksu displayconfig-gtk
``` and adjust

---

### Post by j.miller565 on 2008-12-20
Sorry about the "bumps". Well I have an nVidia GeForce FX 5200 and used the Restricted Drivers Manager which installed the 173.14.12-1-0 nVidia driver which is supposed to be compatable with my card. This driver is also supported by ubuntu.   Since the resolution was stuck at 640x340,  I installed the 96.xx.xx driver also found in the Restricted Drivers Manager. Yet again the screen redolution remained at 640x340 and I couldnt change to a higher res. Then I removed those drivers and tried to install the driver through EnvyNG. The same outcome occurs like it has before. Btw I've been googlong around and all the solutions I've come acclross don't seem to work for me. Hope this is more useful.

EDIT: I'm running Intrepid Ibex 8.10

---

### Post by grappler on 2008-12-20
A similar thing happened to me because I had a linux kernel update for 8.10 this morning just after installing an nvidia driver. I downloaded the (beta) package (well to be precise I already had it on my machine)

NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-180.16-pkg2.run 

from nvidia.com. Of course your driver might be different but this seems to work for most nvidia cards. When I ran this it built the kernel module and after a reboot all was fine.

---

### Post by j.miller565 on 2008-12-22
My card can only use the 173.xx.xx driver because it's pretty old but does what it needs to do. Anyway tried the nvidia package from nvidia and  to be honest I can't stop X so I can install it. Is there anyway I can do that?

---

### Post by igknighted on 2008-12-22
> **j.miller565 said:**
> My card can only use the 173.xx.xx driver because it's pretty old but does what it needs to do. Anyway tried the nvidia package from nvidia and  to be honest I can't stop X so I can install it. Is there anyway I can do that?

Use the command 'sudo init.d gdm stop' (assuming you are using Ubuntu... replace gdm with kdm for Kubuntu).  You will also need the build-essential and kernel-headers packages to install the driver from nvidia.

EDIT: It sounds like the driver might not be your issue, rather an X configuration issue, or the modes for your monitor are not being recognized properly.

EDIT2: I think I found it.  This is from your xorg.conf above:

```
Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    **[COLOR="Red"]HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0[/COLOR]**
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

```

No monitor will have a horizontal sync with that range (usually it is like 30-80 or something similar).  However, you really need to lookup what your monitor supports (it should be listed in the manual).  If you set this incorrectly you can damage some monitors (especially older ones).

---

### Post by j.miller565 on 2008-12-22
Omg that was the problem fixed the horizontal sync and now it looks  brilliant. Thanks all and especially to you igknighted. Thanks again, 

J.miller565

---

