---
title: "8.04 getting slower as time progress"
date: 2008-09-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by F.R Mostert on 2008-09-25
Hi,

I have ubuntu 8.04 and it is working fine but getting slower as time goes on. Is there maybe somthing like a temp file as in windows that can build-up and cause the OS to run slower

Regards

---

### Post by RussW210 on 2008-09-25
I always run the autoclean, clean, and autoremove frequently so as to delete any packages that are not in use and tidy up the system.  I think its:

sudo apt-get autoclean
sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get autoremove

---

### Post by Orange_and_Green on 2008-09-25
Hello F. R.

In theory, no, Linux is designed in such a way that performance won't degrade over time (there are servers who stay on for years without even a single reboot and work like a charm).

In practice, well, that depends on what is actually getting slower.

1)Is it the boot process (from when you press the power switch until the login screen)? If so, maybe the process is hanging on a particular module/service. Try starting up the system in verbose text mode (press 'e' on the grub screen, select the line that starts with 'kernel', press 'e' again, delete "quiet splash", press <enter> then 'b'). This is a very nice feature in Linux because it will tell you every single thing it's doing so you can see if the boot process is hanging on one step in particular.

2)Is it the desktop startup (from login till you can start using the PC)? This may depend on how many apps the PC has to load. For instance, I have a significant delay (of about 15~20 seconds) during this phase. That's because I have added three more panels (I have my desktop encased in panels now) with all my favourite apps and eye candy such as system monitor. And compiz:lolflag: I can live with this delay as I save a lot of time later when I don't have to navigate through the app menus...

And even with such a massive Desktop Environment I can still laugh at people with Xp or Vista (and way better hardware) who wait 6 minutes or more before they can start using their system - almost like in the good old C64 days...

3)Is it general, run-time performance? That may happen if you have lots of processes running (check system monitor, it will show you all your processes and the amount of resources they take). Or, it might as well be your hardware (repeated memory misses, hard disk lagging, etc...)

I think you can improve the performance of your PC if you invest a little time in troubleshooting.
I wish you the best of luck:KS

---

### Post by Orange_and_Green on 2008-09-25
Sorry, post got duplicated by mistake... Is there a way to delete it, staff?
Deeep apologies :(

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-09-25
> **F.R Mostert said:**
> Hi,

I have ubuntu 8.04 and it is working fine but getting slower as time goes on. Is there maybe somthing like a temp file as in windows that can build-up and cause the OS to run slower

Regards

One thing that can cause problems is disk space especially root. Open a terminal from Applications>accessories menu. Use this command

```
df -h
```Copy and paste the results.
Also run the command, top, and see if there's anything hogging resources.

---

