---
title: "Where is fonts.conf?"
date: 2009-12-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Anuovis on 2009-12-08
I wanted to change my default Japanese font for the system and found a _**[nice walkthrough]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=812552")**_ on how to do these things. But it seems there is no fonts.conf file in my Home or anywhere else for that matter. Was it removed as xorg.conf in 9.10?

What do I do now? Is there any way to generate it? Can I change the defaults somewhere else?

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2009-12-08
fonts.conf is in /etc/fonts, or you can create a per-user ~/.fonts.conf

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-12-08
You could search for it using the terminal:
```
locate fonts.conf
```

---

### Post by Anuovis on 2009-12-08
Thank you, I found it in etc/fonts. The rest were under /var/, so probably not the ones I was looking for.

The file itself says:
[I]DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE.
    IT WILL BE REPLACED WHEN FONTCONFIG IS UPDATED.
    LOCAL CHANGES BELONG IN 'local.conf'.
[/I]
Does that mean I have to move it somewhere after changing?

I got these two after *locate local.conf* :
/etc/fonts/conf.avail/51-local.conf
/etc/fonts/conf.d/51-local.conf


And it does not look anything like the one in the tutorial, I am not sure I will be able to edit this to my needs. 
If anybody could tell what do I have to do to set the default fonts, I would be very grateful. Maybe it is not this fonts.conf I have to be looking for.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2009-12-08
The tutorial says to edit ~/.fonts.conf. It doesn't exist yet, so just create it and paste the example code into it.

---

### Post by Anuovis on 2009-12-08
> **Bachstelze said:**
> The tutorial says to edit ~/.fonts.conf. It doesn't exist yet, so just create it and paste the example code into it.

Now I got it... I was thinking it asked to edit the existing file, so kept searching for it. Thank you, I think it worked.

---

