---
title: "10.04 - external USB DVD/RW not recognized"
date: 2010-06-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-26
Okay, I did something I probably should have done differently.

I picked up a netbook, so I also picked up an external self-powered USB 5 1/4 inch disk enclosure.  I took my DVD/RW out of my desktop and put in the enclosure so I can share it.  Now when I plug it back in to the desktop with ubuntu running, the drive is never acknowledged as even existing as best I can tell.

I tried the usb mount package - didn't seem to help at all.

Any help for a dumb guy would be greatly appreciated!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-06-26
Do you have the jumper on the drive set properly? At a guess it should be set to master.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-26
Yes siree Bob! (somehow warfacegod just didn't fit on the end of that ;) ).

Anyway, yes, I have the drive set to master.  I'm wondering if I caused some kind of confusion in fstab when I:

- removed the DVD/RW from my desktop - Ubuntu was installed with it there

- put an old CD-ROM drive in the bay


My fstab looks like the following:

```
dave@dave-desktop:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
# / was on /dev/sda7 during installation
UUID=13a4a3b5-fb50-4bf4-8da7-29ca43023a61 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /home was on /dev/sda6 during installation
UUID=521e43f3-b789-4241-b5de-5e18b3b1c25b /home           ext4    defaults        0       2
# swap was on /dev/sda5 during installation
UUID=232db074-ad8f-48c2-9fd2-e223a77fd4d0 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
dave@dave-desktop:~$
```



Running block id shows:```
dave@dave-desktop:~$ blkid -o value -s UUID
C6BCCC37BCCC23B1
dd2b7f5d-7245-44c8-b691-97cb3b257d93
521e43f3-b789-4241-b5de-5e18b3b1c25b
13a4a3b5-fb50-4bf4-8da7-29ca43023a61
6BE67BA74FC75893
```

The result doesn't change if I unplug the external drive.

I think I mentioned, but I did try the usb-mount package but it didn't seem to make any difference so I removed it.

I assume somehow I need to put an entry in fstab for something like /dev/dvdrw or something like that, but I'm not familiar with fstab at all.  I suppose I'm being lazy because I'm sure there's an excellent write up somewhere on doing so!

I installed 10.04 to my netbook for dual boot from a USB stick.  When I plug the external drive to it, the netbook sees the drive ok.  That's part of the reason I think I screwed up fstab by removing the drive and putting in the CD-ROM drive.

Any help is greatly appreciated!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-06-26
Put this right under
```
/dev/cd0        /media/DVD-ROM  auto    rw,user,auto,exec,utf8 0       0
```
this
```
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
```
in your fstab

I don't know if that will work or not but if it doesn't just delete it.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-27
Tried the change to fstab - didn't make any difference.  I did some more testing and found that if the drive is plugged in to USB and powered on at boot then it is usable.  I wonder what happened to hot-plugging a USB drive?

Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-27
Okay, found out it's a kernel bug that's been reported and that I need to get a "mainline" kernel in the 2.6.35 range. Here's the link to the bug report:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/564459]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/564459")

Since this is the case, I'm marking this thread as solved and opening a new one asking for specific instructions on getting/installing the kernel.

Thanks for the help!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-06-27
In any event you should remove that fstab entry - you wouldn't want one for a usb dvd drive and it was written wrong anyway.


While not your issue, if you have a moment to post this, curious how it deals with the same drive returning as a usb
 (Plus you could clean it up if need be

```
cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-cd.rules
```

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-06-27
> **mc4man said:**
> In any event you should remove that fstab entry - you wouldn't want one for a usb dvd drive and it was written wrong anyway.

Hey, hey, I was just taking a guess based on the floppydrive entry he already had in fstab and I *did* say to delete it if it didn't work.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-27
I appreciate the suggestion on fstab, and I've always been willing to try most anything that looks like it makes sense to me.  I even thought for sure that it must have been something in fstab.  Didn't know about the kernel bug until late last night.  Tried the newer kernel, and indeed it fixes the problem, but it wipes out my wireless so I have to stay with the way things are for now.

It should be noted that using the 2.6.32.22 kernel as current in 10.04 you can use the drive if you boot with it plugged in and turned on.  You cannot, however, use it as a hot-plug device as I want until the newer kernel.  Some people have reported problems with USB flash drives, etc., in this same bug report.

Thanks again for all the help!

Dave ;)

---

