---
title: "U64 10.04 Freeze during install."
date: 2011-02-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by McRat on 2011-02-01
Greetings,

I downloaded the Ubuntu 64 v10.04 off the main site, GUI version.  I created a boot USB.

I ran directly from the boot USB for several hours with no problems, everything was sweet, so I shut down, install a fresh HDD for the Linux O/S, then boot from the USB again.

It boots up to the install/run menu, and I select INSTALL this time.

It asks for the language and time zone.  AOK.

It asks for the KeyBoard layout, then the INSTALL window hangs.  It responses to the keyboard and mouse, but the mouse cursor is in WAITING mode indefinitely.

I "quit" then it launches to the desktop.

I use the SYSTEM TESTING under Adminstration, and when it gets to HDD Detection, it's choking:
```
Traceback (most recent call last):

/usr/share/checkbox/scripts/disk_test, Line 33, in 
<module>
  sys.exit(main(sys.argv[1:]))
File "/usr/share/checkbox/scripts/disk_test", line 22, in main model file = open(model_path)
IOError:[Errno 2] No such file or directory: '/sys/block/isw_cgahbhffdc_Volume0/device/model'


```

Hardware runs fine under Win7-64 Pro, or under USB boot U64 at full load.

Dual Xeon X5650 (6 core 32nm Westmere)
SR-2 motherboard with Intel 5520 chipset
12GB of DDR3-2000 RAM (tested, no errors)
2x Hitachi Deskstar 1TB SATA 3.0 drives in Intel RAID 0 (SATA 3.0 connection to mobo) with Win7 install.
1x Western Digital 500GB SATA 3.0 drive (empty for Linux install) connect to SATA 3.0.
1x ASUS DVD drive, SATA 3.0 hooked to SATA 3.0
No SATA 6.0 devices.


Where should I start to look?):P

---

### Post by McRat on 2011-02-02
Nevermind.  After playing with various HDD's and cabling schemes, and a new USB stick, etc, it never could install off the USB.  This computer is admittedly a bit bizarre, and has lots of quirks.  I call her Miss Piggy.

It tried to send crash info, but the crash info app crashed.  :lolflag:

Burning a DVD worked excellent.:guitar:

---

