---
title: "Calling executable from different directory than working directory"
date: 2013-02-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cdlam on 2013-02-04
Hi all. I'm somewhat confused about some instructions I was given. I have a directory called "train" and within that a subdirectory called "trainA." 

"train" contains numerous files including a specific executable file, and what I'm assuming are a bunch of dependencies for it, since I had to run "make" in the directory before using. the "trainA" directory is generated upon running of a perl module (GlimmerHMM, in case anyone is wondering, but I don't think it matters so much). Anyway, I'm having an error and was told to run:

"scoreSTOP train.stop train.fstop score.stop 19 1 >sites.stop" in the "train" directory.

train.stop, train.fstop and score.stop files that are generated in running the .pm file and are saved in the "trainA" directory. 

scoreSTOP is an executable that exists in the "train" directory.

19 and 1 are positions within the train.stop file relevant to the scoreSTOP program.

sites.stop to me looks like an output file that should be generated, but it also was generated by the .pm file so I'm not entirely sure.

So I guess I'm just trying to rule out certain possibilities, before I assume that what I was told was not an error/typo. Is it possible for me to call the scoreSTOP file while in the sub directory?

If I try just calling it:
```
./scoreSTOP
``` 
I receive: ```
bash: ./scoreSTOP train.stop: No such file or directory
```

I also just tried copy/pasting the scoreSTOP file into the subdirectory and got:
```
./scoreSTOP train.stop train.fstop score.stop 19 1 >sites.stop
Bus error (core dumped)
```

Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by dbott67 on 2013-02-04
You need to call the executable from the parent directory by using ../scoreSTOP

FWIW, ./ will look in the present working directory.

HTH

---

### Post by cdlam on 2013-02-04
You sir have been a great help.

I'll mark this solved in a bit. I guess I have a bit of a follow-up question though. What if the executable is in an entirely different directory, that isn't in a linear path from the working directory? Is it still possible? I feel like I've run into this problem before, and ended up running the program within the directory I installed it; but this gets a little disorganized when there are a lot of output files and a number of runs have been performed.

Thanks!

---

### Post by dbott67 on 2013-02-04
For relative paths, you can just use ../ for each directory you wish to go 'up'. For example, if you had the following directory structure:

```

--dir_a
  --file a1
  --file a2
    --sub-dir_a
      --sub-file a1
--dir_b
  --file b1
  --file b2
    --sub-dir_b
      --sub-file b1
--dir_c
  --file c1
  --file c2
    --sub-dir_c
      --sub-file c1

```

If you were in sub-dir a, yet wanted to access/run a file in sub-dir c, you could use the following relative path:

```
../../dir_c/sub-dir_c/sub-file c1
```

The first ../ would take you out of sub-dir_a, the 2nd ../ would take you out of dir_a and the rest of the path (dir_c/sub-dir_c/sub-file c1) would take you down to your file.

You could also just use the full path to the file from root (i.e. /home/user/some/path/to/file)

---

### Post by cdlam on 2013-02-04
Haha well this explains a lot of what I've seen in readme's and whatnot. Well thank you again.

---

