---
title: "9.04 Issue"
date: 2009-03-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Happyisgood on 2009-03-13
It was suggested that I don't install this as a beginner to Linux, yet sadly I ignored the suggestions.  I installed 9.04 and was flooded with error messages at the end of the install.  I couldn't abort at this point so I just restarted my computer.  I can get to the login screen where I punch in my Username and Password, then I hit return and the computer freezes (Not just Gnome, I tried Ctrl. Alt. F1 to switch to console with no avail).

I tried to boot into recovery mode and fix packages, this however just resulted in my computer getting stuck in an endless loop of failed upgrades.

Any guidance you can provide me in making my computer usable again would be much appreciated.  If at all possible I would like to avoid a fresh install.

---

### Post by Vadi on 2009-03-13
Well... you can boot with a LiveCD to recover your data, and install 8.10 (it's only 20 mins for a Ubuntu install!)

---

### Post by martrn on 2009-03-13
Visist [http://www.ubuntu.com/]("http://www.ubuntu.com/") and download Ubuntu 8.10 and install that version particularly if you are beginner to Linux.

---

### Post by Happyisgood on 2009-03-13
Thanks, it wasn't the 20 minute install time that annoys me, but the 12 hour update time
I guess I'll install and update tonight!

---

### Post by crjackson on 2009-03-13
> **Happyisgood said:**
> Thanks, it wasn't the 20 minute install time that annoys me, but the 12 hour update time
I guess I'll install and update tonight!

Then download and install Hardy 8.04.2 - It won't have very many updates. It's a Long Term Support version and very stable.

---

### Post by Happyisgood on 2009-03-13
> **crjackson said:**
> Then download and install Hardy 8.04.2 - It won't have very many updates. It's a Long Term Support version and very stable.

That would sound like a good idea, but I use the Santa Rosa MacBook, its a nightmare to get wireless working with 8.04, I'm going to go with my 8.10 and let it update overnight.  Then spend another 4 hours configuring my track pad again!

Thanks all, but I guess my problem's as solved as it's getting!

---

