---
title: "9.04 Install - It ought to dstate to assign far more than 4GB..."
date: 2009-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pablolie on 2009-05-01
i am a bit miffed because 9.04 space requirements have been falsely advertised, imho. 

i thought i was being very generous by assigning a 10GB partition on a 50GB hard drive. ubuntu 9.04 installed, and now that main newly installed file system has 9.9 GB of stuff on it (only installation files, *nothing* else) and the first required update will not execute because i am out of drive space...

---

### Post by Niniel on 2009-05-01
Are you sure?
My installation is only about 5 GB.
This is a new installation? How much swap space do you have?

---

### Post by gandaran on 2009-05-01
I installed jaunty plus all my programs on 5GB partition and still have 1GB free space!
now if you install every application in apt-get/synaptic then maybe 10GB is not enough!

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2009-05-01
It should not use 9.9... It would not even function very well with that little space remaining. Are you quite sure? Run the disk utility that shows where your space is being eaten up. It should be in the first application menu.

---

### Post by pablolie on 2009-05-01
i screwed up.

for the firs ttime ever, i "imported" a user account. little did i know this just proceeds to mindlessly copy every user file in that account into the Ubuntu partition... i thought it would just import settings (which is what the install option seemed to imply).

thanks for the quick answers.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2009-05-01
> **pablolie said:**
> i screwed up.

for the firs ttime ever, i "imported" a user account. little did i know this just proceeds to mindlessly copy every user file in that account into the Ubuntu partition... i thought it would just import settings (which is what the install option seemed to imply).

thanks for the quick answers.

Yes DO NOT do that!! I did that mindlessly on my friends PC who had like 80gb of data... Luckily we canceled and redid the installation. I believe they should refine that option a little. The only one I find useful is the bookmarks/desktop background, and neither seems to work.

---

