---
title: "8.04: install rpm - &quot;/bin/sh is needed&quot;"
date: 2008-06-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by thomas7.10 on 2008-06-01
Hi!

Can somebody tell me what i have to install or to do to get this /bin/sh on my computer. I tried different rpm files but none of them did work.

could someone please help me?

Thomas

---

### Post by Monicker on 2008-06-01
/bin/sh is on your system by default.  Why do you think you need to install it?

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2008-06-01
What exactly are you trying to do/install?

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-06-01
> **thomas7.10 said:**
> Hi!

Can somebody tell me what i have to install or to do to get this /bin/sh on my computer. I tried different** rpm** files but none of them did work.

could someone please help me?

Thomas

Theres your problem - RPM files are for Red Hat based systems. You'll need to look for a .deb file to install :)

Unless you want to compile from source - as the post above asks - what're you trying to install?

---

### Post by HotShotDJ on 2008-06-01
> **thomas7.10 said:**
> Can somebody tell me what i have to install or to do to get this /bin/sh on my computer. I tried different rpm files but none of them did work.:confused:
Installing /bin/sh ????
Tried different rpm files ????

Why are you trying different rpm files for anything?  Ubuntu doesn't use rpm files to install software.  (yes, you can convert rpm files to deb files, but it is rarely necessary)

Have you looked at Ubuntu's package management software?  Go to System --> Administration --> Synaptic Package Manager to see the thousands of software packages that are installable with a simple point-and-click.  Try it out and be amazed!

---

### Post by thomas7.10 on 2008-06-01
Well once i wanted to install VMware server and then another program that is only aviable in rpm. I know that i had that other program isntalled once but i can't remember how i did it.

Thomas

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-06-01
If you want to install an rpm file, the first thing you will need is **alien** it is available through synaptic. Once you have it installed you have to run in a terminal:

```
alien -d filename.rpm
```

to convert it to a deb.Then just double click on the resulting file and **gdebi** will install it for you if there are no outstanding dependencies.

If you want to install vmware server there is a tutorial here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=788169&highlight=install+vmware+server](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=788169&highlight=install+vmware+server)

Have fun

Jim

---

### Post by thomas7.10 on 2008-06-01
ok well the alien thing gives me that output:

```

thomas@thomas-desktop:~/Desktop$ sudo alien -d file.rpm 
[sudo] password for thomas: 
Warning: Skipping conversion of scripts in package file: postinst postrm prerm
Warning: Use the --scripts parameter to include the scripts.

```

And now it seems like nothing is happening.

I wonder if i just could "unpack" the rpm and put all the files in the right folders? I think that way i did it last time...

---

### Post by JosephMu on 2009-07-09
> **HotShotDJ said:**
> :confused:
Installing /bin/sh ????
Tried different rpm files ????

Why are you trying different rpm files for anything?  Ubuntu doesn't use rpm files to install software.  (yes, you can convert rpm files to deb files, but it is rarely necessary)

Have you looked at Ubuntu's package management software?  Go to System --> Administration --> Synaptic Package Manager to see the thousands of software packages that are installable with a simple point-and-click.  Try it out and be amazed!

the spirit of Linux is FREE we can do anything on our own way!!

Go to System --> Administration --> Synaptic Package Manager
you do this, what is the different between Ubuntu and dirty Wnds???:guitar:

---

