---
title: "Most useful terminal commands?"
date: 2011-09-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nksjolinder on 2011-09-22
Hey guys,

I'm just wondering if you could tell me from your experience what the most useful commands (up to 10 of them) you have discovered to be and what do they do? basically, what do you recommend i become familiar with, especially regarding the terminal? Thanks!

Nick

---

### Post by cpmman on 2011-09-22
```
man <command>
```become familiar with what each command does **before** you use it.

---

### Post by irv on 2011-09-22
Here is a list of all the commands I find many of them useful. 
[http://ss64.com/bash/]("http://ss64.com/bash/")

---

### Post by Enigmapond on 2011-09-22
Also this is a good read..as if 10 members give you 10 answers, that's 100 commands you are being hit with all at once. Learn one at a time and learn what it does.

[http://gd.tuwien.ac.at/linuxcommand.org/learning_the_shell.php](http://gd.tuwien.ac.at/linuxcommand.org/learning_the_shell.php)

Good Luck!

---

### Post by drmrgd on 2011-09-22
Both good reads.  I'd also like to throw (maybe the obligatory) 'apropos' into the ring.  Just type that and a simple word for what you want to do, and it'll return a list of commands that might do the job.  Check it out!

---

### Post by TiBaal89 on 2011-09-22
Hard to beat the usefulness of cd and ls... try living without those for a while.  :lol:

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-09-22
probably:

```
file <unknownfile>
```

LinuxCommand.org deals with what you need to get started.

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-09-22
man

apropros


with those 2 everything else is gravy

---

### Post by decoherence on 2011-09-22
> **TiBaal89 said:**
> Hard to beat the usefulness of cd and ls... try living without those for a while.  :lol:

Sure thing!

```
PWD=/home/decoherence/Pictures
echo *
```

heheh sorry, i'll go now :lol: ):P

o wait -- my useful command!

```
find . -exec *command* '{}' \;
```

basic version of a very versatile technique for running commands on a list of files generated by find. modify to taste.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-09-22
From a very old post here.

```
history | awk '{print $2}' | awk 'BEGIN {FS="|"} {print $1}'|sort|uniq -c | sort -n | tail | sort -nr
     80 ls
     68 sudo
     39 cd
     20 exit
     18 byobu
     16 rm
     16 nano
     15 less
     14 man
     12 wget
```

---

### Post by ofnuts on 2011-09-22
> **nksjolinder said:**
> Hey guys,

I'm just wondering if you could tell me from your experience what the most useful commands (up to 10 of them) you have discovered to be and what do they do? basically, what do you recommend i become familiar with, especially regarding the terminal? Thanks!

Nick
Well I tried:
```
history | tr -s " " | cut -d " " -f 3 | sort | uniq -c | sort -rn 
```
But it's very biased towards the scripts I wrote and use.

Let's say that [FONT=Courier New]cd/ls/rm/mv/chmod/mkdir/rmdir[/FONT] are very hard to avoid, and that find/grep are a pair that are useful each on its own but even more so when used together.

Add to that some clues on filename expansion, brace expansion and the for syntax in bash and you can go a long way...

---

