---
title: "15.10 Scanner - cannot connect"
date: 2015-12-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cwmoser on 2015-12-01
Both Simple Scan and gscan2pdf will not work under 15.10.
I had both working under 14.04.

When I run gscan2pdf, I get this:

$ gscan2pdf
ERROR - opening device 'brother2:net1;dev0': Invalid argument


Any ideas?

---

### Post by scoutchorton on 2015-12-01
Give us more info about your printer any certain things.

Printer brand, year, model?
USB, WiFi, Bluetooth?
Computer brand, other installed OS's?

Stats like these helps. "My printer doesn't work" is not specific enough.

Also (if it is USB), just check that the cables are plugged in. Something could be loose, and would be a simple fix ;)

---

### Post by sandyd on 2015-12-01
Previously, these issues were caused by the device management system failing on gscan2pdf

The workaround is to run the gscan2pdf with the "--device=<device>" flag.


How is the scanner connected?


What does
```

sane-find-scanner
```
output?

If it finds the scanner and outputs something like
```

device `xxxxx` is a 
```

Take the text where "xxxxx" is, and use that as <device>.

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2015-12-02
Its a networked scanner - 192.168.0.212
Brother MFC-440CN
I used the same Brother 64 bit drivers that works just fine under Ubuntu 14.04
Printing to the Brother works fine.

Could it be some permissions issue???

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2015-12-02
sane-find-scanner did not find my Brother networked scanner in either Ubuntu 14.04 or 15.10

In Ubuntu 15.10, gscan2pdf makes the light on my Brother scanner light up when I press Scan
but then displays an error message.  So, its talking to the scanner but then can't continue.

simplescan does not work either with Ubuntu 15.10.

---

### Post by scoutchorton on 2015-12-02
> **cwmoser said:**
> Could it be some permissions issue???

View the original person's reply to his post: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1877103](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1877103)

He did have a command about groups (which would have permissions), so I guess your hunch was right..

Anyways, good luck, and may the CODE be with you! :D

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2015-12-03
Scoutchorton, you were spot on.  That was the fix to the problem.  Thanks much.

In summary, the fix that allowed gscan2pdf and simplescan on Ubuntu 15.10 to work with
my Brother MFC-440CN was the following:

After installing the Brother Drivers, you must do the following:
1- copy /usr/lib64/sane to /usr/lib/sane:
	cd  /usr/lib/sane
	sudo  cp /usr/lib64/sane/* .
  2- copy /usr/lib64/libbr* files to /usr/lib:
	cd  /usr/lib64
	sudo  cp libbr*  /usr/lib

---

