---
title: "10.10 Boot Problem"
date: 2011-04-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ry22 on 2011-04-17
Very new to ubuntu -  I'm trying to install 10.10 on my wife's old Acer Aspire 3680.  At first the installation wasn't successful (Errno 15), but after clicking on 'Try Ubuntu' from the LiveCd and then installing, the installation was successful.  But the problem is that when I turn the computer on it runs some text (I saw one of the errors was ata1.00: error {UNC}) and then goes to a black screen with the mouse cursor.  I searched around some on the web and think maybe it's a graphics card problem?  How do I install the correct one?  Or am I completely off base?  
 - Some more info: if I press 'Ctlr+alt+F1' I think it's running ubuntu just without the GUI.  I think this is so because it asks for my login and then my password, and after entering those it shows:
'brooke@brooke-Aspire-3680:~$ ' and I can enter tex, like to find out which graphics card I have, etc.  

Sorry for the long question, if anybody could help me out I would greatly appreciate it.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-04-17
ry22,

Welcome to the Ubuntu forums.  :-)

As you mentioned, it is most likely a video driver problem.

If you get a menu at boot, you can select the Recovery mode and then select 'Run in safe graphics mode'. If you can get to the Desktop, go to System > Administration > Additional Drivers and try to install your video card driver.

Another way from the Grub menu:
Highlight the first entry and press 'e' to enter the editing mode.
Use the cursor to go to the end of the line starting with 'linux'.
Backspace/delete 'quiet nosplash' and add 'nomodeset' (no quotes).
Press CTRL-x to boot.
If it boots, install the video driver as mentioned earlier.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-04-17
I have had to use nomodeset.

How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)
I had to do this with my Nvidia 9600GT:
To install Ubuntu, boot from the cd press any key at accessibility circle and keyboard, press F6 and then select the nomodeset option.
USB boot - At the menu press tab on the first option to edit the boot options and replaced the 'splash' option with 'nomodeset'. 
then
On first boot after install, press e on getting the GRUB bootloader. 
Hold shift from BIOS boot to get menu if only one system installed.
Using arrow keys navigate to and delete quiet and splash and type the word nomodeset in their place
Press Ctrl and X to boot (low graphics mode)

Some other settings:
[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/)
* Older Intel video card: i915.modeset=1 or i915.modeset=0
* nVidia: nomodeset
* Generic: xforcevesa or nouveau.modeset=0
* Radeon: radeon.modeset=0

If you get to command line:

This probably will not work to start graphics:
#Start gdm
sudo service gdm start

#To see video:
sudo lshw | grep -A 11 display

also to try:
#list of recommended drivers:
jockey-text -l
#Install a driver:
sudo jockey-text -e <driver>

---

