---
title: "13.10 remove nvidia driver/ blank screen"
date: 2014-01-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Martin_Hallerbach on 2014-01-22
Greetings,
there are different threads working this issue, but I did not want kidnap one of those, so I generated a new one.

I run 13.10 on an old 32 bit intel pentium 4 machine  which received an msi graphics card (nvidia FX5500) because everything since the upgrade to 13.10 is slowly.
Adding the graphics card did not improve things, so I had a look and found out how to install the nvidia driver (which i was sure would run seamless as usual) (use the GUI "additional drivers")

Thus I ended up with the seemingly well known blank screen.

The advice to uninstall the driver via grub->root-shell sounds nice BUT:
-> Grub
-> root-shell
-> mount -o remount, rw /
-> apt-get remove nvidia-*

the root-shell does not provide apt-get and several other commands.
Now I'm stuck

There are other advices following all very different path's, which do slightly overwhelm my rusted ubuntu linux knowlegde

I looked for the xorg.conf and only found a file called  xorg.conf.failsave which i cp'd to xorg.conf.
No effect.

1. if there is an advice to use root-shell and apt-get... why does the root-shall not provide apt-get or
2. does the root-shell  provide apt-get, so what I'm doing wrong.


I also started the 13.10 live cd hoping to be able to work into the files, but I do not know which files to alter correctly
3. Is there a possibility to remove the nvidia driver using the live cd?


Different try, from root-shell i run dmesg | grep nvidia , the output is:
nvidia: module license "NVIDIA" taints kernel
nvidia: module verification failed: signature and/or required key missing - tainting kernel
4. does this anybody tell something that might help?


I just now installed 13.10 via live CD over the bugged installation, still the driver persists and I end up with a black screen
Now I'm lost

5. Any other suggestions??

thx a lot for your support

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-01-22
was that exactly how you inputed the mount command.
It seems if so, then the remount,rw is wrong, there should be no space between those.
yours as posted is mount -o remount, rw /
where it should be mount -o remount,rw /.

So if apt-get remove isn't working that might be the cause.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-01-22
I have used Recovery Mode>Root many times to update a busted Ubuntu install using apt-get. We do need to put the file system into read/write mode using that mount command mount -o remount,rw / We can also do it by running the Network option in Recovery Mode. If we are going to download any packages we will need a network connection. Perhaps the problem was more to do with not having a network connection than apt-get not being available.

But that is in the past. When you re-installed did you tick the Install Third Party software option? That will bring in a proprietary video driver and it may be the video driver that is causing this problem. You can try Recovery mode>Resume. That may get you to a desktop using an open source fall back video driver. And when at the desktop you can experiment with video drivers using the Additional Drivers tab in Software and Updates.

You can also re-install without ticking to install Third Party software. I sometimes test ISO images and I never tick to install Third Party Software and I always get a working OS.

Regards.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-01-22
+1 to using the network option in recovery to remount automagically as read/write.
The added bonus of being able to utilize the network for any re installs is always a plus.

---

