---
title: "10.4 Questions"
date: 2010-04-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sheepdog9090 on 2010-04-22
When 10.4 comes out:

1. Will it show up in daily updates?

2. Will Firefox update to the latest Firefox release?

3. Will I have to download the new distro to a USB stick or will it download via update?

4. Will new software be made available via Applications?

---

### Post by 2hot6ft2 on 2010-04-22
> **sheepdog9090 said:**
> When 10.4 comes out:

1. Will it show up in daily updates? **There will be an Upgrade option**

2. Will Firefox update to the latest Firefox release? **It will upgrade to the version that's in Lucid not the latest beta if that's what you mean.**

3. Will I have to download the new distro to a USB stick or will it download via update? **No, and yes. 2 part question, 2 part answer.**

4. Will new software be made available via Applications? **If there are new apps. in Lucid then they will be available once you upgrade to it.**
Hope that helps

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-04-22
To clarify question 3 and the above answer: you dont have to burn a cd or usb stick, you can upgrade just like you do an update.
edit: oh well, already clarified as I was typing my clarification lol

---

### Post by QIII on 2010-04-22
My general advice is to save your /home directory.  You should also save your installed applications as a list and restore them.  I have that on a "cheat sheet" at home and I don't want to try to tell you how to do that from memory.  Someone will have it shortly, I imagine.  I'd also save your hosts file and some others.  Sorry.  Cheat sheet again.

Do the above in either case, but I usually recommend a clean install over an upgrade.  Your choice.

If you decide to do an upgrade, have a look here for how to do it from GUI.  This is for upgrade to Karmic, but the steps are the same.

[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading)

If you want to do it from the command line, the preferred method is

Get your current version up to date:

```
sudo apt-get update
``````
sudo apt-get upgrade
``````
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```If you don't have it, do

```
 sudo apt-get install update-manager-core
```And finally

```
sudo do-release-upgrade
```

---

### Post by 2hot6ft2 on 2010-04-22
> **QIII said:**
> Although my general advice is to save your /home directory.  

You should also save your installed applications as a list and restore them.  I have that on a "cheat sheet" at home and I don't want to try to tell you how to do that from memory.  Someone will have it shortly, I imagine.

A few ways.
[http://lovinglinux.megabyet.net/?page_id=534](http://lovinglinux.megabyet.net/?page_id=534)
and
> **ajgreeny said:**
> You can either:-

CREATE A LIST OF INSTALLED PACKAGES
```
sudo dpkg --get-selections > installed-software
```
will list everything on the computer and if you want to use the list to reinstall this software on a fresh ubuntu setup,
```
sudo dpkg --set-selections < installed-software
```
followed by:-
```
sudo apt-get dselect-upgrade
```

Or:-

```
sudo -i
cd /root/.synaptic/log
cat /root/.synaptic/log/*.log > /home/andrew/dpkg-$(date +%F).log
```

Will produce file called dpkg-2010-02-11.log (dpkg-year-month-day.log) in home listing everything that has been done with synaptic, or update-manager, but not, I think anything that you've done with apt-get

> **LeFish said:**
> Hi!

I think I found an answer on my question myself

Using this selfwritten script I get two lists, importable to Synaptic

```
#!/bin/bash

for i in `dpkg -l "*" | egrep -oh '^ii  [[:graph:]]*' | cut -b 5-`; do
	echo -e "$i\t\tinstall" >> ./install.txt
done

for i in `dpkg -l "*" | egrep -oh '^un  [[:graph:]]*' | cut -b 5-`; do
	echo -e "$i\t\tdeinstall" >> ./deinstall.txt
done
```

What do you guys say?

LeFish

---

### Post by sheepdog9090 on 2010-04-22
Thank you for the advice. I will back up as indicated and wait until the 29th to see how it goes.

---

### Post by sheepdog9090 on 2010-04-23
Is it best to wait on the final release or should I move to 10.4 now? Any advice. Keep in mind I'm a noob.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-04-23
If you want to try it out, feel free to download it and run it from a cd. 

I would definately advice against upgrading to it before release, and in general I would rather test it before I upgrade an existing install. Keep in mind, there is no way to downgrade if lucid doesnt work on your machine (and it does cause "new" problems on a few of my machines, mostly with wifi and standby/resume).

---

### Post by solomon316 on 2010-04-23
I just re-installed 9.10.   P4man, I had the same issue with standby/resume issues.  I went back to 9.10 until the final release comes out and hopefully these bugs get worked out.  I know 10.4 slowed my machine down terribly.  It took on average 10 secs for firefox or any other browser to open up.  To all, I would definately wait for the final release to come out in 2 weeks.....  But I will never go back to winshits again.  My imac is great and I absolutely love this Ubuntu 9.10 I'm using now.  Hell, this thing survived my entire deployment to afghanistan and runs wonderfully....  I pray 10.4 winds up being as stable as 9.1....

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-04-23
Weird, I had suspend issues with 9.10, upgraded to beta1 on my lappy and it works like a charm now!

YMMV I guess.

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2010-04-23
> **sheepdog9090 said:**
> Is it best to wait on the final release or should I move to 10.4 now? Any advice. Keep in mind I'm a noob.

I'd wait.  Keep two things in mind when doing an upgrade
[list]
[*]Do not expect the upgrade to be available the moment it hits midnight the 29th in whatever time zone you're in
[*]Downloading the update may take some time as it is fairly large and the servers will be getting hammered from everyone else updating[/list]

---

### Post by HarrisonNapper on 2010-04-23
fwiw, Karmic fixed all of the standby/resume issues and wifi issues I had on Jaunty. Maybe that's just the case for 64-bit, though. Any word on whether these new issues appear to be specific to 64-bit again? Rendering: gets no respect :)

---

### Post by roger_1960 on 2010-04-23
Hi all

Best to wait at least a month after release of LTS before upgrading or fresh install.  That way the repo updates will include any major fixes which arise following launch.  Perhaps wait for 10.04.1 to be safe.  If you wait, you can learn a lot from these forums without pulling your own hair out!  That said, after waiting a while after first release, my last 3 upgrades (different laptops) to 9.10 have run without a hitch so I have high hopes of 10.04.

---

