---
title: "Could I please have help with the touchpad"
date: 2009-01-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by MooseMagnet on 2009-01-30
I recently installed Intrepid. I have not been able to get the my touchpad to work correctly. I have added the HTML text to HAL, which is what was recommended. And I have adjusted the sensitivity to the lightest touch. But I still must tap several times. And the text cursor flies around the text while I am typing.

Dell Inspiron 1300, Intrepid.
xorg.conf is empty (no longer used).

Thank you.

---

### Post by marshall.robert on 2009-01-30
Im not sure how to specifically help you but it might be an idea to reduce the sensitivity a bit if you find the cursor flying around when you type. It also might not detect that you take your finger away when tapping because its so sensitive.

Just a thought.

---

### Post by MooseMagnet on 2009-01-30
Thank you for replying. I have tried adjusting every way possible. I set it to the next level away from sensitive that I could with the slide bar. The problem still exists exactly the same. I have to tap tap tap tap several times, and the text cursor flies around when I type. I've adjusted the other parameters in System -> Preferences -> Mouse.

(Just now, to double-check that Mouse is under Preferences and not Administration, I had to tap System 7 times before it responded. Something is not right here.)

Seems like this was fixed a couple years ago in Dapper, but I don't remember how it was done. xorg.conf? That's no longer used. 

I will surely appreciate help with this.

---

### Post by MooseMagnet on 2009-01-30
I installed gsynaptics, but I must include this line in xorg.conf
Option "SHMConfig" "true"

but xorg.conf is empty, and hal is used instead.

I believe gsynaptics will help my touchpad greatly. How can I fix this to make gsynaptics work?

---

### Post by MooseMagnet on 2009-01-30
xorg.conf is not empty. Sorry - wrong info. 
This is the contents. Where/how do I add the line for the gsynaptics?

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by MooseMagnet on 2009-01-31
This damned touchpad. In the middle of the last post I was typing, it canceled the post.

I stupidly, courageously, tried adding the line to xorg.conf. But when I restarted the laptop, it crashed, and I had to completely rebuild from the iso disk.

When it crashed, it displayed text only. These are the last few lines:

No resume image, doing normal boot...
Ubuntu 8.10 rich-laptop tty1
rich-laptop login:

Then I enter login and password, and it gives me the terminal prompt. I tried several things, but could not get the system back. This is the third time I've done it in this month.

Now, all is rebuilt and working BUT the stupid touchpad.

Is there any way to use gsynaptics on this?

---

### Post by Boomhauer on 2009-01-31
have you seen this?
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6077309&postcount=121](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6077309&postcount=121)

---

### Post by MooseMagnet on 2009-01-31
Thanks. But that doesn't help.
I edited the file as he suggests. 

And did as suggested here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad#shmconfig](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad#shmconfig)

The touchpad is still not right. 

Is there any way to get gsynaptics?

The touchpad fixes for Dapper, Edgy, and Feisty were great. But this fix for Intrepid is not working.

Thanks.

---

### Post by rustutzman on 2009-01-31
I'd bet you have a stuck key on your keyboard. **** or cntrl.

Russ

---

### Post by MooseMagnet on 2009-01-31
It's not a stuck key.

1.  I read an email, then click "Inbox" to read the next.
2.  I click the next email, but nothing happens, because the processing light is lit on the laptop, it is too busy to recognize the click.
3.  I wait until it is able to accept the click (touchpad tap).

It is a problem with a driver, or software or something like that. I don't know. That's why I'm asking for help and advice here. And like I said when I initially posted about this, there is a problem I can't figure out. I need help with it.

---

### Post by MooseMagnet on 2009-01-31
Any ideas on how to get the Synaptics Touchpad to work with Intrepid.
Bump.

---

### Post by MooseMagnet on 2009-02-01
Got it! Finally!

---

