---
title: "9.10 freezing?"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mlthmp on 2009-11-06
Yesterday I posted that my 9.10 install wasn't using any of it's Swap partition, and everyone seemed to agree that was pretty much normal. Well, today I've noticed another issue I was wondering about =(

[http://img525.imageshack.us/img525/2685/screenshotvi.png](http://img525.imageshack.us/img525/2685/screenshotvi.png)

Took that just a few moments ago. My system is becoming unstable after running for about 15 minutes. The system resources are reading at (or near) max. In the above shot they're at 100% As you can see when the image was taken there were no other programs actively open, and before hand all I was doing was browsing on google (one window open) 

Any ideas? When it gets this way I have to reboot or its pretty much unusable =(

---

### Post by papangul on 2009-11-06
You haven't posted the right screenshot. You should have posted the screenshot of the 'processes' tab.

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2009-11-06
Alternatively go to terminal and enter
```
top
```
which will show the currently running processes.  Are you running compiz ?
If I remember in your previous post you said you have 3Gb of RAM. It may be that you have a corrupted program. You can find and repair this with
```
sudo apt-get install -f

```

---

### Post by mlthmp on 2009-11-07
> **Kevbert said:**
> Alternatively go to terminal and enter
```
top
```which will show the currently running processes.  Are you running compiz ?
If I remember in your previous post you said you have 3Gb of RAM. It may be that you have a corrupted program. You can find and repair this with
```
sudo apt-get install -f

```

My main system has 3GB memory. I am "testing" 9.10 on my backup (Acer Laptop) before I install it on my main system. This system has 1GM memory, and is a 1.7ghz processor.

When I run the command you suggested, this is my output from Terminal.

The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  libnss3-dev libboost-filesystem1.34.1
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.

Also, to the best of my knowledge I am not using compiz. When I check the package manager I see it in the options, but it's not "checked" Should I be running it?

---

