---
title: "12.04 or 13.04"
date: 2013-04-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by geniusrko on 2013-04-25
My computer details 
Memory : 1.9GB 
processor : Intel® Pentium(R) 4 CPU 3.00GHz × 2  
Graphics : Intel® G33 
will ubuntu 13.04 64bit work well on my computer or should I stick with ubuntu 12.04 64Bit

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-04-25
Welcome to the Forums !

12.04 if you don't want upgrade for a long time . Unity and Compiz  really work well on 13.04 for me and there is no more 2D option, but the non long term support (LTS)  releases have only 9 months of support. I no little about Intel graphics and how they work with 13.04.

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-04-25
Intel Graphix work well with Linux. I am using 13.04 on Intel Graphics and no issues. 

13.04 has support for 9 months only, as said.
12.04 is LTS [Long Term Support] supported until 2017.

If you don't like upgrading your Ubuntu to new version every 9 months then go for 12.04LTS.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2013-04-25
12.04 if you like software from April 2012
13.04 if you like software from April 2013

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-04-25
> **snowpine said:**
> 12.04 if you like software from April 2012
13.04 if you like software from April 2013

Nautilus from 2012 has split pane feature, Nautilus 2013 does not.
Disk Utility 2012 is full featured, Disk Utility 2013 is not.

Newer is not always better :)

---

### Post by nerdtron on 2013-04-25
Yes mostly outdated software (such as Libre Office) but Firefox and Chrome has official updates which are rolled out on the update manager.
If you are on a corporate environment you might want to stick on the LTS because of the extended support life.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2013-04-26
you can get newer software with PPA.

You probably do not need newer kernel, since computer doesn't have latest hardware. anyway i am sticking with LTS porbably at least until next year and new point release.

---

### Post by rrich1974 on 2013-04-26
it seems that cannonical is pushing people to the LTS releases witch is a good thing.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2013-04-26
If April 2012 is "outdated" then that makes me feel really, really old! ;)

---

### Post by Warren Hill on 2013-04-26
Personally I would go with 12.04 as its supported until April 2017 while 13.04 is only supported till January 2014.

If you want the latest features use 13.04 but you will need to upgrade sooner.  Also bear in mind that 13.04 was released yesterday so there as not been much time to find out it it has any problems yet.  Hopefully it won't have any but it's not unusual for users to find bugs in any OS that the developers and beta testers miss.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-04-26
> **snowpine said:**
> If April 2012 is "outdated" then that makes me feel really, really old! ;)

If you count by decades you will feel younger :)

---

### Post by Asatru9 on 2013-04-26
Use 12.04 unless you really like trying out the newest version.

---

### Post by momist on 2013-04-26
I'm surprised that no one has asked you yet.  How well do you know Linux?  What experience do you bring?  Have you tried Unity before?  

If you are a very new user, coming from Windows, then the answers might be different.  I would say try Cinnamon Remix, which is newbie friendly, avoids Unity and is based on Ubuntu 12.04 for it's long term support.

---

### Post by Sef on 2013-04-26
If you want a system that just works and is supported a long time, go with 12.04. If on the other hand, you prefer being on the more on the edge, then go with 13.04.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2013-04-26
13.04 is a reasonably conservative release and if you are just 'testing the waters' I would have a look at it. Unity seems a little more polished on this release as well...

---

### Post by ChochiWpg on 2013-04-29
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> Welcome to the Forums !

12.04 if you don't want upgrade for a long time . Unity and Compiz  really work well on 13.04 for me and there is no more 2D option, but the non long term support (LTS)  releases have only 9 months of support. I no little about Intel graphics and how they work with 13.04.

13.04 doesn't have the 2D option?  This I did not know.  When I tested 12.04 LTS a couple weeks ago Unity3D was very laggy for me and I had to run Unity2D.  But I heard 13.04 is faster so maybe that wouldn't be a problem.  I guess I am in the same boat as the OP, it's a hard decision to make.

I also heard that Chrome doesn't work on 13.04 if you just download and install.  You have to download another file/program to make it work properly?

---

