---
title: "12.10 Login"
date: 2012-12-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Marctwane on 2012-12-30
Since I upgraded to Ubuntu 12.10 all I get after logging in is the wallpaper. There are absolutely no desktop icons or anything else to click on. All I can do is shut the computer off from the power button on the case.

---

### Post by HomelandSecurity on 2012-12-30
press ctrl+alt+t     then type:

```
sudo apt-get upgrade && sudo apt-get update
```

---

### Post by daslinkard on 2012-12-30
> **Marctwane said:**
> Since I upgraded to Ubuntu 12.10 all I get after logging in is the wallpaper. There are absolutely no desktop icons or anything else to click on. All I can do is shut the computer off from the power button on the case.

As mentioned above you will want to open up a terminal by holding down ```
CTRL+ALT+T
```

Once the terminal comes up I would personally try resetting your Unity by doing the following command
```
unity --reset
```
This should bring your desktop, launcher, icons, etc. back to normal.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-12-30
The Unity reset command has changed in 12.10 to the following. ```
setsid unity
```

---

### Post by daslinkard on 2012-12-30
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> The Unity reset command has changed in 12.10 to the following. ```
setsid unity
```
Thank you Frogs Hair for the updated command!

---

### Post by LuisGMarine on 2012-12-30
If those don't work try:

```

sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic
sudo reboot
```

I had a similar problem when I installed 12.10.  Above are the commands that I ran.  Let us know if you still need help.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-12-30
> **HomelandSecurity said:**
> press ctrl+alt+t     then type:

```
sudo apt-get upgrade && sudo apt-get update
```

You have that the wrong way round HomelandSecurity.

---

### Post by HomelandSecurity on 2012-12-30
> **nothingspecial said:**
> You have that the wrong way round HomelandSecurity.
Explain please..

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-12-30
Well, normally you would update before you upgraded. Because updating the package lists would ensure you upgraded your packages to the latest versions.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2012-12-30
Update refreshes your repostories and upgrade installs the latest upgradable packages from those newly refreshed repos.

---

### Post by HomelandSecurity on 2012-12-30
> **nothingspecial said:**
> Well, normally you would update before you upgraded. Because updating the package lists would ensure you upgraded your packages to the latest versions.
Ok, I got what you mean now. I thought it wasn't appropriate.

---

