---
title: "11.04 FA-66 with Jack sometimes stops working"
date: 2011-05-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by egervari on 2011-05-21
I am having a weird issue with my FA-66 sound card and Jack. After some time, it just cuts out and I hear no sound. I have to stop jack and restart it, close all of the applications (like Firefox) and reopen them just to get sound playing again. 

This is actually very annoying. You can imagine having the sound cut out during a youtube video and being forced to shut all down firefox (and lose your tabs sometimes) for no good reason.

Eventually, the problem happens more and more frequently, and the only way to fix it is to reboot the system. I am a programmer... and I often have a bunch of windows open... so having to reboot and reload up everything again is yet another massive annoyance :(

What can I do to diagnose and fix this issue? Why can't it "just work" like the drivers do on Windows? Isn't the FA-66 supported and very familiar hardware? It's a very popular sound card actually as far as music sound cards go. I don't get it.

I wish I could just use the onboard sound card, but my studio monitors don't have inputs to the normal sound card. I am forced to use the FA-66 if I want to hear sound, even though I am not doing any mixing in Linux. I am just programming in Linux (Ruby).

---

### Post by mzuther on 2011-05-25
Hi egervari,

I have a similar problem, but unfortunately just haven't got the time diagnose it.  So far, the following procedure has helped (on the console):

```
$ pgrep -l pulseaudio
5385 pulseaudio
$ pkill -9 pulseaudio 
$ pgrep -l pulseaudio
5449 pulseaudio
```

The "pgrep" command shows the current process ID of "pulseaudio", so if it doesn't change after killing "pulseaudio" with "pkill", you'll have to re-run the "pkill" command until it does.  Please note that "pulseaudio" might not re-start until you actually play some sound, so the second "pgrep" command might not yield a process ID.  Never mind that...

Martin

---

### Post by egervari on 2011-05-25
I'm not sure that's the issue. I executed those commands, but it didn't do anything.

It just happened to me again while I was watching a .mkv file, so here is my jackd log:
[FONT=monospace]
[/FONT]  p, li { white-space: pre-wrap; }  [COLOR=#999999]12:03:10.900 Patchbay deactivated.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#999999]12:03:10.902 Statistics reset.[/COLOR]
 Cannot connect to server socket err = No such file or directory
 Cannot connect to server socket
 jack server is not running or cannot be started
 [COLOR=#999999]12:03:12.348 Startup script...[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#990099]12:03:12.348 artsshell -q terminate[/COLOR]
 Cannot connect to server socket err = No such file or directory
 Cannot connect to server socket
 jack server is not running or cannot be started
 sh: artsshell: not found
 [COLOR=#999999]12:03:12.750 Startup script terminated with exit status=32512.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#999999]12:03:12.750 JACK is starting...[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#990099]12:03:12.750 /usr/bin/jackd -P60 -dfirewire -r48000 -p256 -n3 -o8[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#999999]12:03:12.768 JACK was started with PID=2622.[/COLOR]
 no message buffer overruns
 no message buffer overruns
 jackdmp 1.9.7
 Copyright 2001-2005 Paul Davis and others.
 Copyright 2004-2010 Grame.
 jackdmp comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
 This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
 under certain conditions; see the file COPYING for details
 JACK server starting in realtime mode with priority 60
 libffado 2.999.0- built Mar 28 2011 17:49:18
 [COLOR=#9999cc]12:03:16.366 JACK connection change.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#999933]12:03:16.367 Server configuration saved to "/home/egervari/.jackdrc".[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#999999]12:03:16.368 Statistics reset.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#999999]12:03:16.378 Client activated.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#999999]12:03:16.378 Post-startup script...[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#990099]12:03:16.378 /home/egervari/Desktop/startpulse.sh[/COLOR]
 Welcome to PulseAudio! Use "help" for usage information.
 >>> >>> Welcome to PulseAudio! Use "help" for usage information.
 [COLOR=#999999]12:03:17.203 Post-startup script terminated successfully.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#9999cc]12:03:17.204 JACK connection change.[/COLOR]
 >>> >>> JackPosixMutex::Unlock res = 1
 [COLOR=#cc66cc]12:39:41.740 XRUN callback (1).[/COLOR]
 JackEngine::XRun: client PulseAudio JACK Source finished after current callback
 JackPosixMutex::Unlock res = 1
 JackPosixMutex::Unlock res = 1
 JackPosixMutex::Unlock res = 1
 [COLOR=#cc66cc]23:44:19.559 XRUN callback (2).[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#cc99cc]23:44:20.435 XRUN callback (2 skipped).[/COLOR]
 JackFFADODriver::ffado_driver_wait - unhandled xrun
 [COLOR=#cc9966]23:47:38.154 JACK connection graph change.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#9999cc]23:47:38.473 JACK connection change.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#cc9966]23:47:38.479 JACK connection graph change.[/COLOR]
 JackProcessSync::LockedTimedWait error usec = 106660 err = Connection timed out
 JackEngine::ClientDeactivate wait error ref = 3 name = PulseAudio JACK Source
 JackServer::ClientKill ref = 3 cannot be removed from the graph !!
 JackProcessSync::LockedTimedWait error usec = 21332 err = Connection timed out
 JackEngine::ClientCloseAux wait error ref = 3
 Cannot write socket fd = 52 err = Broken pipe
 Cannot write socket fd = 52 err = Broken pipe
 Cannot write socket fd = 52 err = Broken pipe
 Cannot write socket fd = 52 err = Broken pipe
 Cannot write socket fd = 52 err = Broken pipe
 Cannot write socket fd = 52 err = Broken pipe
 Cannot write socket fd = 52 err = Broken pipe
 Could not read result
 JackProcessSync::LockedTimedWait error usec = 106660 err = Connection timed out
 JackEngine::ClientDeactivate wait error ref = 4 name = PulseAudio JACK Sink
 JackServer::ClientKill ref = 4 cannot be removed from the graph !!
 JackProcessSync::LockedTimedWait error usec = 21332 err = Connection timed out
 JackEngine::ClientCloseAux wait error ref = 4

---

### Post by mzuther on 2011-05-26
Sorry to hear that, it definitely works for me.  Anyway, I'll downgrade to Kubuntu 10.10 because the combination of jackd and pulseaudio definitely doesn't work well for me.

Good luck!

---

### Post by egervari on 2011-05-30
Bump.

I still have this problem and I am going to ask again if someone can help me solve it.

What I'd really like is for my sound card to "just work" and work forever. I want a stable sound and to never have to restart jackd and never have to reboot. I don't want it to cut out in the middle of watching a youtube video and the like.

Is this possible?

---

