---
title: "11.04 wireless problem"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Bikinguy on 2011-05-01
Hi all,

Installed natty on a dual boot setup with 10.04. Wireless is working fine on my 10.04. But no luck so far on Natty.

I am running a dell lat d620 with a broadcom BCM 4311 wireless driver.
I know..very rare driver here *LOL

The STA driver that ubuntu suggests includes my driver in the list. I install it and no go.

When I was installing my 10.04 I ran the scan for drivers and the STA and another broadcom driver showed up. After no luck with the STA I installed the second driver and it worked. Have been using 10.04 for a couple weeks and really like it.

So far I like Natty to but need help solving the wireless issue. I have tried to locate the other driver that worked but no  luck so far

input welcome

thanks

---

### Post by remarkrab on 2011-05-01
I also had this problem on an HP with the Broadcom BCM 4311. I am very new to Ubuntu so please bear with me as I try to recall exactly what I did to fix this. First I Googled around a bit and couldn't find an exact fix. What I gathered was I needed to use the older driver for it. The STA driver (aka wl) didn't work. 

Step 1. open terminal and enter rfkill list 
it should output something like this:

0: phy0: Wireless LAN
	Soft blocked: no
	Hard blocked: yes
1: hp-wifi: Wireless LAN
	Soft blocked: no
	Hard blocked: yes

if anything is blocked enter rfkill unblock all
mine is showing Hard blocked because my wifi switch is off as I am on ethernet.

Step 2. In terminal enter lspci -vvnn
it should output a large list of stuff but scroll up and look for something like this:

01:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4311 802.11b/g WLAN [14e4:4311] (rev 01)
	Subsystem: Hewlett-Packard Company BCM4311 802.11b/g Wireless LAN Controller [103c:1363]
	Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 0, Cache Line Size: 64 bytes
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 19
	Region 0: Memory at b3000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
	Capabilities: <access denied>
	Kernel driver in use: b43-pci-bridge
	Kernel modules: ssb

the Kernel entries for Network controller used to be wl on my machine when it was not working. wl is the STA driver.

Step 3. Open additional drivers and remove STA driver

Step 4. Open Synaptic Package Manager and install
firmware-b43-installer and b43-fwcutter

Wifi should work now if not use rfkill list again to see if anything is blocking still and lspci -vvnn again to double check the Kernel entries they should not be wl.

I am sure there is an easier way to accomplish all this from the terminal alone but I am just starting to learn the commands. Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Bikinguy on 2011-05-01
thanks for the reply..will ck it out asap.

Appreciate it..bikinguy

---

### Post by postenga on 2011-05-02
Thanks man, it worked like a charm!!

---

### Post by BishalGautam on 2011-05-08
Thanks to [remarkrab]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1291991") Your suggestion worked well for me too !! I wasted whole day Downloading Additional Hardware, and many more softwares but Your Reply solved my problem !! Thanks Again !! :-)

---

### Post by N0body on 2011-05-09
@remarkrab:

Absolutely brilliant!  It worked exactly as you stated - thank you.  I'm playing with malware analysis and needed a Linux box, but my place is wireless and laptops are all that I have.

May I ask how you learned what you needed to know to make this work?  Where did you start?  How much Linux experience do you have?  Please feel free to PM me if you wish, and thank you again.

---

### Post by remarkrab on 2011-05-15
> **N0body said:**
> @remarkrab:

Absolutely brilliant!  It worked exactly as you stated - thank you.  I'm playing with malware analysis and needed a Linux box, but my place is wireless and laptops are all that I have.

May I ask how you learned what you needed to know to make this work?  Where did you start?  How much Linux experience do you have?  Please feel free to PM me if you wish, and thank you again.

1. May I ask how you learned what you needed to know to make this work?

A. Many years of being frustrated by things that don't work properly and figuring it out for myself.

2. Where did you start?

A. Google. I always take advantage of learning what others mistakes, problems, and solutions can do for me. Even the most useless post or page can have some value hidden in it.

3. How much Linux experience do you have?

A. Started with 11.04 the day it came out.

N0body, you are quite welcome. I have very little Linux experience, however years with Windows and long, long ago some DOS QBasic programming. 11.04 just being out and assuming that (like on windows) newer drivers break older hardware I gathered the info I needed to use an older driver and got it fixed or got lucky and it worked. Just happened to find good info on this forum so I joined and shared what I had found because not to my surprise I was not alone in this problem. Glad it worked for you.

Currently trying to get Ubuntu working on my acer win 7 machine and when I run the Live/cd I have no back light that is why I am back here today. Solution found thanks to unknown47. Should be up and running shortly off to partition hdd.

2 Hours later Ubuntu 11.04 up and running on my acer 5734Z-4836 dual booting with windows boot loader.

---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2011-08-02
I am having wireless issues as well. The rkill list shows no blocks; here is output of lspci -vvnn:

0c:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g LP-PHY [14e4:4315] (rev 01)
    Subsystem: Dell Wireless 1397 WLAN Mini-Card [1028:000c]
    Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR+ FastB2B- DisINTx-
    Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
    Latency: 0, Cache Line Size: 64 bytes
    Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 17
    Region 0: Memory at f69fc000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: <access denied>
    Kernel driver in use: b43-pci-bridge
    Kernel modules: ssb

---

### Post by gandaran on 2011-08-02
> **witeshark17 said:**
> I am having wireless issues as well. The rkill list shows no blocks; here is output of lspci -vvnn:

0c:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g LP-PHY [14e4:4315] (rev 01)
    Subsystem: Dell Wireless 1397 WLAN Mini-Card [1028:000c]
    Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR+ FastB2B- DisINTx-
    Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
    Latency: 0, Cache Line Size: 64 bytes
    Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 17
    Region 0: Memory at f69fc000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: <access denied>
    Kernel driver in use: b43-pci-bridge
    Kernel modules: ssb
you may need to install the right firmware, follow this thread to find out exactly what your have to install
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10796508&postcount=44](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10796508&postcount=44)

---

### Post by trooperchix on 2011-08-03
[http://computerandu.wordpress.com/2011/05/04/how-to-solve-no-wireless-networks-in-ubuntu-11-04/](http://computerandu.wordpress.com/2011/05/04/how-to-solve-no-wireless-networks-in-ubuntu-11-04/)

Do a complete shutdown and restart.  For some reason, that works.

Be sure to disable the proprietary drivers option under software sources or update manager will update your driver right back to the one that doesn't work.  Go to Update Manger.  At the bottom left hit the settings button.  It's under the Ubuntu Software tab, right in the middle of the page.

---

