---
title: "22.04 too old?"
date: 2024-04-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by amiarg on 2024-04-18
Hi,
  I recently started using Ubuntu. I got this message:
  
   [Andre Klapper]("https://gitlab.gnome.org/aklapper") [@aklapper]("https://gitlab.gnome.org/aklapper")  ·  [36 minutes ago]("https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/cheese/-/issues/178#note_2086344")  Developer
Ubuntu 22.04
   Hi [@amar66]("https://gitlab.gnome.org/amar66"),  thanks for reporting this. Unfortunately you are using a version that  is too old and not supported anymore by GNOME developers. There will not  be any bug fixes or feature additions by GNOME developers for the  version that you use.
  
   Please  feel free to reopen this issue if this situation still happens with a  more recent version of GNOME. Feel also free to report this in the issue  tracking system of your Linux distribution as your Linux distribution  still supports your current version.

---

### Post by maglin2 on 2024-04-18
My PC has no webcam, but an observation:-
Cheese 44 which you reported you have is the snap version.
The version that came with my Ubuntu 22.04 (and remains unused) was the gnome deb version 41.1
You might try installing that to see if it works any better.
Or maybe he means the age of your webcam hardware?

---

### Post by amiarg on 2024-04-18
Hi, Thanks for answering, I ran version 41.1 first but it had so many problems that I gave up on it. On version 44 I have only that one problem and from what I see it can not handle the sound? But I have no idea how to fix that.

---

### Post by amiarg on 2024-04-18
Sorry, I referred to this: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2496923](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2496923)

---

### Post by maglin2 on 2024-04-18
I would hazard a guess that he's saying that gnome developers aren't interested in issues with gnome 42.9 any more, and you'd need to seek a solution through ubuntu developers. They don't live on this forum.

Someone who knows a lot more than me about how you might investigate (ie most folks who help on this forum) may come along though.

(I found a very old laptop with ubuntu 22.04. I had the same problem as you with cheese. I installed webcamoid and it seemed to work well for stills and video recording. Unless you have a particular reason for using cheese you might want to give that (or any one of a few other camera apps in the repositories) a try?)

---

### Post by him610 on 2024-04-18
You may want to try guvcview. Better than cheese.
```
sudo apt  install guvcview  # version 2.0.7-2-1

```

---

### Post by amiarg on 2024-04-18
Hi, and thanks, yes you are correct, the developer had no time. I did try a few other apps beside webcamoid, but it seems the problem is something else when i tried to play the videos in smplayer, in mpv and mpplayer it did not work, smplayer actually crashed. I finally found out how to file a bug report manually with Ubuntu, hope they answer.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2024-04-21
> **him610 said:**
> You may want to try guvcview. Better than cheese.
```
sudo apt  install guvcview  # version 2.0.7-2-1

```
+1 with installing guvcview. (You seemed to have missed that recommendation) Many here use that. That is what I personally use for all my laptops.

 It just works, and works well.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2024-04-21
Another +1 for guvcview!
Cheese was always useless on my systems; it showed images or videos but crashed when I tried to save anything.
Guv view just does what you tell it to without fail!

---

### Post by amiarg on 2024-04-21
Thank you everyone, I will wait for the new LTS release.

---

