---
title: "12.04 not connecting on start up."
date: 2012-04-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ouija1979 on 2012-04-10
Recently installed 12.04 with little problems, except that when it starts up it wont connect to the Internet through Ethernet, I have to un tick Enable Networking and then tick it again, any suggestions?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-04-10
Have you tried go into System Settings and using the Network utility to switch that connection on?

If you click options you open the Edit Connections panel. Is the connection ticked to Connect Automatically?

Regards.

---

### Post by imachavel on 2012-04-10
it really sucks when a person doesn't re visit the thread to acknowledge if the problem has been solved or not, probably one of the reasons I don't reply to every thread here anymore. If I ask a million questions, then no answers are replied, it's as though I made it worst by confusing whoever would come across the thread on the internet seeking an answer, by seeing eight thousand questions but no answer
 
apparently just a configuration issue, you can get internet as long as the network connection check box is ticked. There should be a start up menu somewhere, this is what I would look to see what is happening. Don't know why the network connection would un tick itself though at start up. What error when you open up firefox or other browser? lspci would make no difference here, nor would a sudo command to show network processes..
 
did you fix it?

---

### Post by ouija1979 on 2012-04-11
Apologies for not getting back sooner. Personal problem.

I have checked in System setting and Network Utility and it is indeed checked, It is also checked to start automatically. I went through all the network settings and saved, then re stared and still the same issue.

Firefox message:

Server not found
      
      
      
      
      
        
        
          Firefox can't find the server at [www.ubuntuforums.org](www.ubuntuforums.org).
        

        
        

  Check the address for typing errors such as
    ww.example.com instead of
    [www.example.com](www.example.com)
  If you are unable to load any pages, check your computer's network
    connection.
  If your computer or network is protected by a firewall or proxy, make sure
    that Firefox is permitted to access the Web.

---

### Post by ouija1979 on 2012-04-11
Went into Network Utility and switched off/unchecked everything...restarted, went back in, switched on and checked everything restarted again and everything seemed to work straight away. I have restarted several times and all seems well. I don't know quite what was wrong but that appears to have fixed it.

Thanks for your help.

---

