---
title: "8.04 installation help"
date: 2008-06-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GRAYgoose12 on 2008-06-10
i just installed 8.04 but after it loads when i turn the computer on. this like command prompt comes up and i cant use ubuntu 
how do i get passed it

---

### Post by gr4nf on 2008-06-10
try CTRL+ALT+F7, if that doesnt work, hit CTRL+ALT+F1 and type "startx"

---

### Post by geezerone on 2008-06-10
Does the Ubuntu banner appear on screen with the horizontal bar showing it is loading or does it stop after Grub loads?

---

### Post by dbutcher on 2008-06-12
I have the same problem as GRAYgoose12.
I do not get the Ubuntu banner and horizontal progress bar when booting -- it's text all the way.  It boots into CLI mode in tty1.  If I type "startx", the desktop runs normally.
How can I get the desktop to start automatically after a reboot?

Unlike GRAYgoose12, this is not an install of Hardy for me, but an dist-upgrade from Dapper.  My gui problem has started only since the upgrade.

Thanks, 
Dave

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-06-13
Check and see if gdm is installed in a terminal type the following:

```
which gdm
```

should result in

```
jimk@intrepid:~$ which gdm
/usr/sbin/gdm
```

If not that is what your problem is.

Jim

---

### Post by dbutcher on 2008-06-13
Thanks Jim,
As expected, I get:

dbutcher@ubuntu:~$ which gdm
/usr/sbin/gdm

Cheers,
Dave

---

### Post by dbutcher on 2008-06-14
Interesting.
If I type 
```
/etc/init.d/gdm start
```
I get
```
dbutcher@ubuntu:~$ /etc/init.d/gdm start
/etc/environment: 7: -Xms384M: not found

```

If I type
```
startx
```
gnome appears to launch normally.  However, if I then try to select System | Administration | Login Window, I get an error message saying that GDM is not running.

Can anyone help me make sense of this?

---

### Post by GRAYgoose12 on 2008-06-15
well how am i supposed to get to the terminal if i cant access anything:mad::mad::mad::mad::mad: whats GDM stand for its my initials

---

### Post by geezerone on 2008-06-15
> **GRAYgoose12 said:**
> well how am i supposed to get to the terminal if i cant access anything:mad::mad::mad::mad::mad: whats GDM stand for its my initials

> **geezerone said:**
> Does the Ubuntu banner appear on screen with the horizontal bar showing it is loading or does it stop after Grub loads?

Describe exactly what happens to pin-point where it is causing problems.

GDM = Gnome Desktop Manager

---

### Post by GRAYgoose12 on 2008-06-17
well it does go to the ubuntu screen where it says its loading but after it loads it goes to the command prompt thing

---

### Post by geezerone on 2008-06-17
Are you able to type anything at the command prompt?

When it boots up press Ctrl F1 to show what stages complete successfully to debug the boot process.

---

