---
title: "9.04-9.10"
date: 2009-11-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by crew51m on 2009-11-08
When the time comes, I will upgrade to the newest ver, does the home folder contain everything such as files, photos, settings, etc? If I do a complete install, save my home from here, will I have everything I have on this system?

---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2009-11-08
If you go with the upgrade and not a new install then your /home directory will be preserved.  Everything that is in /home will be there after the upgraded.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-08
You should back up your home folder and do a clean install.  Read the forum here and see the problems folks are having as a result of upgrading.  You may get away with it.  A clean install would be safer.  Then just put your files back in the new home folder.

---

### Post by stderr on 2009-11-08
Personally I see no reason not to try an upgrade first, especially if you have home backed up. I've done a lot of Ubuntu upgrades and I've never had to ditch one for a clean install yet, although they're not *always* entirely smooth processes as ranch hand indicates. The problem with clean installs being it takes a while to get things set up again, and I find you can typically resolve post-update problems quicker than you can setup a new distro: my 2 cents. With home backed up, you can always do a clean install later anyway if need be.

Bear in mind that a clean install will wipe out the settings under /etc, but how much of an impact this is depends somewhat on how much you have installed and configured. Almost all the settings most people will care about are stored under /home in dotfiles/folders.

Also, if you set up a separate /home partition when installing Ubuntu, then you can do a clean install on your root partition, leaving your home partition intact. However, I believe the default during installation is to have one big root+home+boot+... partition, so this probably (?) doesn't apply to you.

---

### Post by crew51m on 2009-11-08
Thanks for the info.

---

