---
title: "12.04 LTS is running slow on IBM ThinkPad"
date: 2013-11-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kerrymarc on 2013-11-06
I upgraded from 10.04 to 12.04 LTS and it's mega slow. 

I wonder if I added to the problem by trying to get flashplayer to work (as i can't watch videos), I'm not very tech savy and think I downloaded unnecessary adobe stuff (I assume unnecessary because it didn't work).

Laptop spec:

IBM ThinkPad
Memory - 495.4 MiB
Processor - Mobile Intel Pentium(R) lll CPU-M 1133 MHZ
Graphics - VESA: VBE 2.0
OS Type - 32-bit
Disk - 28.3 GB

Is there anything I can do to speed things up, and watch Youtube vids etc?

This is my first time here and as I say I'm not tech savy, so not too much 'jargon' please :)

Thanks.

---

### Post by K7AAY on 2013-11-06
It will run slowly because the Unity desktop will always run slowly on a 1.1GHz P3 w/ only half a gig of RAM. I strongly suggest [Xubuntu]("http://xubuntu.org") or [Lubuntu]("http://lubuntu.net") as alternative, lighter, faster versions of Ubuntu without all the overbyte.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-11-07
Even then, you need Pentium4 performance to render videos--flash or HTML5, and then at limited resolutions.  So you will probably be stuck at 240p with some stuttering.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2013-11-07
i think there is gnome fallback still available in ubuntu 12.04 as well as unity 2D for slower maschines.
however indeed Lubuntu and Xubutnu are better options for your computer.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-11-07
You can also read the general advice about linux in old computers in this link [Old hardware]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2130640")

---

### Post by BBQdave on 2013-11-07
> **K7AAY said:**
> It will run slowly because the Unity desktop will always run slowly on a 1.1GHz P3 w/ only half a gig of RAM. I strongly suggest [Xubuntu]("http://xubuntu.org") or [Lubuntu]("http://lubuntu.net") as alternative, lighter, faster...

> **tgalati4 said:**
> Even then, you need Pentium4 performance to render videos--flash or HTML5, and then at limited resolutions.  So you will probably be stuck at 240p with some stuttering.

+1

If possible, adding more RAM will go a long way to helping with system performance. Modern web surfing, at least 1 gig of RAM - 2 gigs is great :)

Even with a lighter DE, like LXDE or Xfce, resource intensive applications like Firefox, will slow your system. So you may need to run one application at a time.

---

