---
title: "11.04 lives on my NTFS?"
date: 2011-09-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jay+ on 2011-09-28
I used WUBI and installed 11.04 from vista.  From vista I can see the volume where I installed it and there are folders.  One is named ubuntu.  I don't get it, is it not using linux file system?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-09-28
Hi, no it is not when you install by wubi.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1639198](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1639198)
[http://www.googlubuntu.com/results](http://www.googlubuntu.com/results)
[http://wubi.sourceforge.net/faq.php](http://wubi.sourceforge.net/faq.php)
Thank you

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-09-28
Hello and Welcome 

Wubi installs Ubuntu in a folder inside the Windows partition . See this guide . [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide)

---

### Post by Jay+ on 2011-09-28
so I didn't just install wubi, I installed ubuntu as a front end to windows?  

So windows is running the disk access and it's virtual ubuntu?

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-09-28
> **Jay+ said:**
> so I didn't just install wubi, I installed ubuntu as a front end to windows?  

So windows is running the disk access and it's virtual ubuntu?

No, it's real Ubuntu. It's just that instead of having a dedicated partition on the drive, it's installed into a clever virtual partition that's actually just a big file on your NTFS partition.

When you boot into Ubuntu that's been installed using Wubi, only Ubuntu is running. Windows does not get involved at all (except for a little bit of the Windows bootloader when the system is booting).

Wubi is _not_ a virtual machine.

---

### Post by lolpenguin on 2011-09-28
Wubi is not a virtual machine, but it uses a virtual hard drive (usually C:\ubuntu\disk\root.disk)

---

### Post by Jay+ on 2011-09-29
Ok, so then it's like a persistent USB install, but on my hdd?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-09-29
Hi, Paqman described it best I believe.
Than you

---

### Post by Jay+ on 2011-10-01
if it's one file, doesn't that risk the entire system if there is any issue with that one file getting currupted?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-10-01
Hi, that is possible. Wubi install is only for testing so you can see if you like it then you are suppose to do a normal install.
Thank you

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-10-01
> **Jay+ said:**
> if it's one file, doesn't that risk the entire system if there is any issue with that one file getting currupted?

Yes - exactly - that is the main issue with using Wubi longterm.

Wubi can be installed/uninstalled from Windows, without having to partition, burn a CD etc. It runs almost the same as a normal install (much faster tha live CD/USB and a virtual machine). So - it is intended to allow Windows uses to try out Ubuntu risk-free in a realistic way. It is not intended to replace a normal install.

Having said that - some users choose to use wubi longterm - but in this case I'd recommend keeping important data backed up or stored on the /host ntfs partition rather than on the virtual disk to mitigate this risk.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-10-01
> **bcbc said:**
> it is intended to allow Windows uses to try out Ubuntu risk-free in a realistic way. It is not intended to replace a normal install.
This is true. WUBI tends to be subject to sudden failure, especially when upgrading. It is not quite as fast as native Ubuntu and has a couple of other minor issues.

If you intend using WUBI long-term, ensure you have a daily backup routine. (Well, you should have one anyway.)

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-10-01
> **Paddy Landau said:**
> This is true. WUBI tends to be subject to sudden failure, especially when upgrading.
This is a bit of a myth. Most people on the forums only know about Wubi when someone posts a problem and it all seems a bit mysterious. Wubi has had some well-documented long-standing issues with grub that have been resolved since around the release of 11.04. This same problem was the issue with upgrading.

Now the biggest problem I see is exactly as surmised by *jay+*: corruption of the root.disk. In many cases the root cause (no pun intended) is an underlying hardware incompatibility which causes freezing, followed by a hard shutdown. In other cases, it's really not clear what is causing the corruption.

From my own experience, I've been running the latest development release (Oneiric) exclusively on Wubi including multiple fresh installs, upgrades etc. and haven't once lost a root.disk through corruption, neither have I had any crashes that required reinstallation (maybe I'm just not testing it hard enough).

In any case, stable or not, the idea is to use Wubi for trying out Ubuntu and then switch to a normal dual boot. I don't think anyone is advocating Wubi for regular, ongoing use.

---

### Post by lolpenguin on 2011-10-01
For backup you could copy the entire root.disk to a safe location, but that uses up disk space pretty fast. I also read somewhere on ubuntuforums that you could move wubi install onto a physical drive (something like wubi-move)

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-10-01
Hi, here is a link to migrate wubi to a normal install, I think that is what you are talking about.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519354](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519354)
Thank you

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-10-02
> **bcbc said:**
> Wubi has had some well-documented long-standing issues with grub that have been resolved since around the release of 11.04.
Thanks for the heads-up.

> **bcbc said:**
> I don't think anyone is advocating Wubi for regular, ongoing use.
Uh, I have seen people advocate that a couple of times. I believe that the [Ubuntu website]("http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/windows-installer") should make it clear that WUBI is not intended for long-term use, while clarifying the limitations that WUBI has.

---

