---
title: "10.04  instaallation stops"
date: 2010-07-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-11
Trying to do a clean install.

Older Dell Inspiron 8100 using the CD I have successfully used to install on two other machines.

The machine boots form the CD the install screen shows, I select the English option hit enter and then select the install option.

It reads the CD indicated by the activity light and then just stops.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-07-11
1. Make sure the computer meets the recommended Ubuntu hardware requirements:

> Ubuntu Desktop Edition

    * 1 GHz x86 processor
    * 1 Gb of system memory (RAM)
    * 15 GB of hard-drive space (although this can be split onto 2 drives, a 5Gb / and a 10Gb /home fairly easily)
    * Graphics card and monitor capable of 1024 by 768
    * Either a Cd/Dvd-drive or a Usb socket (or both)
    * Internet access is helpful 

2. Try the Alternate Install CD

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GettingUbuntu#Download%20the%20Alternative%20Installation%20CD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GettingUbuntu#Download%20the%20Alternative%20Installation%20CD)

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-11
Yes all the requirements are met.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-07-11
1) Does the Ubuntu Live CD work OK in "try Ubuntu live with no change to your computer" mode?

2) Did you try the Alternate Install CD as I suggested?

---

### Post by sanityfare on 2010-07-11
HI

I presume this is a Notebook, if so, shutdown and remove power and the battery, put it back and try again. This way the ram is totally cleared for any residual data that may be inhibiting the installation

Hope success

SF

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-07-11
Try running chkdsk on your windows partition.

On my machine I was having trouble getting gparted or the installer to see my sda which has windows. It saw my other drives but seemed to take forever and did not show sda.

I found it was showing errors even though my windows seemed to work ok. I ran chkdsk and now gparted comes right up with sda.

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-11
Yes all the requirements are met.

sorry for the duplicate.

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-11
Downloading the alternet now.

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-11
1) Does the Ubuntu Live CD work OK in "try Ubuntu live with no change to your computer" mode?

Ofter choosing to run it with no changes it reads the CD for a while and then just stops.

I installed it in Windows XP and on re-boot the windows boot loader shows Ubuntu but if I choose it, it just sits at a dark screen.

I don't know why I can read the initial install screen for Ubuntu but then it just sits there after two choices.

I am still downloading the alternate but it is 9.10.

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-11
I downloaded and installed the 9.10 alternate and it seems to be working fine. I did a clean install so I can check the installation.

If all goes well I will try an upgrade too 10.04 but I like to do clean installs.

If all is working well as it seems I am at a loss as to why 10.04 would hang at installation.

Do you know of a location which would have a 10.04 alternate to download?

Thanks in advance. Bob.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-07-12
> **bob brazie said:**
> 
Do you know of a location which would have a 10.04 alternate to download?


Glad the install was a success! :)

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/)

---

