---
title: "12.4 caused me to lose windows xp"
date: 2012-06-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by stiggowitz on 2012-06-18
Hi .
I was trying to  put 12.4 on a partition of my hard drive and followed 
the instructions as they came and when it came to  sizing for 12.4 I used
the slider to  about 80 gig and pressed the continue button.
The message to prepare the volume came up and I pressed continue.
It started the process and did this for awhile until a message came up saying that it couldn't proceed and so I ex'd the box to try again but before I could stop
the process it it had started to install 12.4 and began to erase XP off my hard drive.
I had the day before cloned my hard drive so I still have all the info but when I went to reinstall XP  something in 12.4 won't let me boot XP from my dvd drive
 and just restarts 12.4.
I really Like ubuntu but I need to get XP back on my system.
What can be done?

s:)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-06-18
If you have a backup, so you don't mind the possibility of losing what was on your disk from Windows, do the following:

- check your system BIOS settings to be sure the CD drive is 1st in the boot order

- boot your PC using the Ubuntu LiveCD

- click on the "Try Ubuntu"

- once booted, go to disk utility

- with disk utility, delete your swap and any other ubuntu partitions that may have been allocated.  If your Windows XP recovery depends on a recovery partition on the disk, DO NOT delete it!

- try reinstalling/recovering Windows XP again.

Reason:  XP, at least for me, never used non-Windows partitions that are defined as something other than free space.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by d.atanasov on 2012-06-18
Hi 

Do you think that you have made the boot options correct. If they are correct try to give the explicit boot on your dvd-drive so that Windows is loading and not the installed Ubuntu.

---

### Post by stiggowitz on 2012-06-19
"[anewguy]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=331304")"
 
Thanks! That solved the problem.
s:)

---

