---
title: "11.10 Not Releasing USB"
date: 2012-03-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mn_voyageur on 2012-03-22
I recently installed 11.10.

I have an MK550 Logitech Wireless Keyboard and Mouse.  Only on this computer does the keyboard and mouse "lock-up."

When I remove the dongle, lsusb still shows:
     Bus 003 Device 002: ID 046d:c52b Logitech, Inc. Unifying Receiver

Why is this still listed?

MarkN

---

### Post by Daveth on 2012-03-22
I suppose one might enquire how you remove it- yank it out, or "eject" or similar?

---

### Post by mn_voyageur on 2012-03-22
I pulled it out.

We're talking about a wireless dongle.  Not an external drive, or CD, that requires "eject" or "safely remove."

Or does it?

MarkN

---

### Post by Daveth on 2012-03-23
I don't know, to be truthful, but it struck me as worth asking. Does it have any desktop indicator when you plug it in?

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-03-23
> **mn_voyageur said:**
> I recently installed 11.10.

I have an MK550 Logitech Wireless Keyboard and Mouse.  Only on this computer does the keyboard and mouse "lock-up."

When I remove the dongle, lsusb still shows:
     Bus 003 Device 002: ID 046d:c52b Logitech, Inc. Unifying Receiver

Why is this still listed?

MarkN

Hello , 
you can also check dmesg for errors or messages about your dongle. Open a terminal and write
```
dmesg
``` it is a biiiiigggg list. Check the last lines for messages about your usb. Plug dongle , check dmesg , unplug dongle check again.

---

### Post by mn_voyageur on 2012-04-01
Everything locks up.  

I am traveling, and the laptop with 11.10 is at home.  

I will check dmesg, when I return.

Thanks,
MarkN

---

