---
title: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf is empty, no typing errors"
date: 2010-02-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by camilomusic on 2010-02-11
Hey everyone! First time here.

I know this question has been posted several times on the web but I've found myself not being able to fix it even after using all the solutions proposed. I'm using a Packardbell Easynote NJ32 AMD64 (laptop) in a freshly installed Ubuntu 9.10 64-bits. All I've done is enable the restricted repositories and stuff like that, and install compiz. Now the problem is that I've been trying to follow this guide [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver) to get my ATI open-source drivers for my ATI Radeon X1200 Series to work properly (I tried getting the privative drivers to work but it was impossible, nothing I'd do would work, so I ended up giving up, assuming that the reason for that was the lack of support my graphic card had from ATI in Ubuntu). It indicates how to modify the xorg.conf file, and up to that point all is well, up until I try to open this file and I find that there is nothing in it. I've tried using different combinations like $ sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf or $ sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf, or opening it as a root user, but it is still blank. I've read in almost all forums that the problem lies on a typing error since it is impossible to have the GUI working (my GUI is working) without having a xorg.conf, but I'm almost 100% sure I'm not mistyping iit as I've tried copying and pasting the command line from the Ubuntu site still getting the same results. I also tried   dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg but nothing happens, the xorg.conf file is still empty.

I really want to get my graphics configured properly because, even though the default configuration doesn't look like complete crap, it doesn't look too amazing either. Is the xorg.conf information stored somewhere else? Becuase last night I was using Ubuntu 9.04 (64-bits) and it had stuff in it, but then when I upgraded it to 9.10 (64-bits) and found it empty. Or if not, is there a way to create one that would work? 

Thank you so much for your help in advance !!

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-02-11
Hallo.
It is likely that the file isn't there. It doesn't exist by default on 9.10. Things have moved on a bit, and the mechanism is being phased out. However, if the file exists, it will be read and used. For instance, the nvidia-settings utility writes one, and mine is definitely in use. I have a twin monitor setup that would not work from any default settings.

If you know exactly what you need to put in the xorg.conf file, you could try creating it and see if it works. Be warned, though, that I have no idea how safe this is in the end. I have messed around with the file in the past, and always managed to get where I want, but I am still no expert.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-02-11
I had a similar problem to yours with my setup of an ati 9200se card, using the open source driver, but giving me a black screen background with the panels showing, and application windows showing until they were maximised.

Stopping desktop effects with Alt+F2 and command **metacity --replace** got back the desktop background, and then a search found that you can only use desktop effects at 24 bit colour, with that card at resolutions up to, but not greater than 1024x768.

My answer was to manually edit the very old backup of xorg.conf for this machine and add figures for colour depth, refresh rates for my monitor, and resolution sizes.  I saved this to the normal /etc/X11/xorg.conf, and it all now works as it should; not quite as seamless as 9.04 was, but very good nonetheless.

Here's a copy of my file.  Try it yourself, but put your own figures in place of mine, of course, and good luck.

Audiomick is quite right, by the way;  if the file is present it will be read and used by the system, but it is not needed in most cases these days. We are just unlucky in having ati cards that have now been dropped from the list that ati supports.

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "ati"
    Option         "AccelMethod" "UXA"
EndSection 

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
            HorizSync    30-80
            VertRefresh    50-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth    16
    SubSection "Display"
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


---

