---
title: "10.10, ATI 9250 Pro AGP"
date: 2010-11-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-11-03
I made a post earlier this year about problems with noise on my screen, and most people seemed to think it was the built-in radeon driver.

I'm happy to report that when I removed everything to install 10.10, after the installation the noise is GONE from my screen.  So far, for me at least, 10.10 has been working great.

Now I don't use the newest hardware - my stuff is by necessity pretty old, but it's working great!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2010-11-03
good to hear.
 
might have (should have) worked even before if you would have used the opensoruce drivers. i tried Ubuntu 9.10 live session on Radeon 9200 and it worked well.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-11-04
It worked in 10.04, but I almost always had noise (artifacts?).  One day it did just stop - never knew why.  Everything has been fine until last night - I was in Windows, got the BSD and just did a reset - now I've got the noise again in 10.10.  I'm thinking that maybe something in the Windows driver is messing up the card somehow when I'm in Windows and pressing reset isn't resetting the card.  Later today I'm going to try a power-off/on and then see if they're gone - if so, I'll have my answer.

Just for grins - I installed the ATI Catalyst driver and control center in Windows right about the time this all started.  The card had been working before in Windows with whatever default driver Windows assigned it at install.

Dave ;)

---

