---
title: "Nvidia driver problems with Ubuntu 10.10"
date: 2011-02-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jgamroth on 2011-02-19
First off, here are the specs on my machine:
Ubuntu 10.10 32 bit/ Dual boot w/ Vista 64 bit
Intel core2 quad processor
GEForce 9500GS graphics card

Output of lspci | grep VGA:
06:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G96 [GeForce 9500 GS] (rev a1)

So, when I try to install the nvidia drivers, everything seems to go smoothly until I reboot.  It then comes up in a terminal screen, text-only.  From what I've seen in other posts and forums, the Nvidia drivers should configure xorg.conf, and that file should tell linux what graphics settings to use.  When I look at xorg.conf through the terminal screen, here is what I see:


# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 260.19.06  (buildmeister@builder101)  Mon Sep 13 07:06:38 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection



Nowhere in the file are there settings for resolutions supported, or any of the other common things I see in other peoples' xorg.conf file listings online.  It's definitely writing to the file, as xorg.conf doesn't exist before I use the "sudo nvidia-xconfig" command, but it doesn't appear to write a complete file.  I'm only 6 months in with Ubuntu, so any advice is appreciated.  Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by n-n-nebbl on 2011-02-19
Does Ubuntu 10.10 still use the xorg.conf?

i guess you installed the nvidia drivers with the restriceted drivers tool from the menu.

try to install the newest drivers from nvidia (you can download an *.sh file which will compile and do all work for you from their website)
if they still not work, try to install older versions of the driver via the synaptic manager

i've had similar problems with some driver versions (older and newer versions worked great)

---

### Post by jgamroth on 2011-02-19
Thank you for your response.  I tried using the drivers directly from the Nvidia site, and got the same effect.

---

### Post by Blazarth on 2011-02-19
I has the same problem...after installing the current- nvidia driver I follow this

~$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
~$ sudo sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install nvidia-current nvidia-current-modaliases nvidia-settings
Do NOT run sudo nvidia-xconfig if you have maverick.

and It WORKED!

---

### Post by jgamroth on 2011-02-20
Thanks.  I think I made progress.  It got the packages and installed them, however, when I rebooted, the machine still went straight into the terminal screen.  I tried "startx" and it gave me an error message saying something like "no valid displays found".  Unfortunately I didn't write the exact message down.  So, I went to my /etc/X11 folder and found that those sudo commands had created an xorg.conf file.  Again, it looks like the contents are missing lines.  Here is what's in my xorg.conf file:

[COLOR=Blue]Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Default Device"
    Driver    "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection[/COLOR]

Thanks in advance for any help that you all can give me.

---

### Post by alzie on 2011-02-20
I had a similar problem.  I put in a bug report about it.  When I installed the nVidia drivers I could not achieve proper resolution and managed to break enough things to end up at the terminal at reboot.

I installed the drivers (from nVidia) following the instructions here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=990978](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=990978)



And then, because Ubuntu kernal updates would put me back at the terminal, I followed the instructions here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=835573](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=835573)

Which automatically rebuild the drivers to work with your current kernal.

For some reason, installing the drivers from inside the GUI won't work for me and so I had to install them from terminal after stopping GDM.  That is the gist of the bug report.

I hope this helps.

---

