---
title: "9.10 - new grub, does supergrub disk still work now?"
date: 2009-11-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-11-16
I want to install another distribution in another set of partitions and have the option to boot Ubuntu or it, but am a little concerned considering the changes to grub.  Since there is no longer a menu.lst and it is instead built on the fly, will something like one of the super grub disks still work if I hose up my booting?  Will the new grub find the new OS automatically?  I'm also concerned the other distribution isn't yet on grub2 and afraid that the install will write over the mbr giving me a mess.

Does anyone have any advice on adding another operating system on the same system as Ubuntu 9.10 (it's another Linux distro, not Windows) since 9.10 has grub2 or whatever it's called?

Thanks in advance!

Dave :)

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-17
Your new OS should pick up your Ubuntu.

If not, there is no need to go to 3rd party apps.  This is not MS we are dealing with.

To restore you grub2 to the MBR just follow these instructions using your 9.10 LiveCD;

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#Recover%20Grub%202%20via%20LiveCD]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#Recover%20Grub%202%20via%20LiveCD")

When you get to the instruction to "edit the file" ignore it.  All you want is the"update-grub" and "grub-install" parts.

When you see your menu the next time it shuld have your new OS on it too because you ran "update-grub"

Read the link in my sig.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-11-17
Forgot about running grub from the livecd to rebuild grug - I had to do that before but somehow I forgot now (embarrassed look, eyes pointed to floor, one foot kicking sideways at dust).  Thanks for reminding me!

Thanks again!

Dave :)

---

