---
title: "ME240q"
date: 2008-10-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by karlmp on 2008-10-03
is it possible to make LG Mobile ME240q to work in Ubuntu Linux?

i don't want to go to windows to use it

---

### Post by jamesrl on 2008-10-03
I'm guessing that LG ME240q is a cell phone that you want to access via your computer via a USB to cell phone connector cable or something.  I can do that with my LG VX8500 through bitpim (which should be in the repository).  I couldn't find that phone as specifically listed as being supported (or not supported), so I'd say that's your best bet.  Also if it doesn't work at first, I'd suggest trying bitpim with root privileges  (e.g. sudo bitpim) as I had problems using bitpim at one point for not having proper priveleges to access the phone.

Cheers

---

### Post by karlmp on 2008-10-03
thank you for the reply

i tried with root privileges, it didn't work

---

### Post by karlmp on 2009-01-25
bump

---

### Post by karlmp on 2009-03-25
[COLOR="DarkOrange"][SIZE="7"][FONT="Comic Sans MS"]*bump*[/FONT][/SIZE][/COLOR]

---

### Post by dayosh on 2009-03-29
To the best of my knowledge, Bitpim is the only cell phone "file transfer" program available for Ubu.  I've had it for years, and only just recently (in the past few months) it's been giving me the following error in the terminal upon startup:

```

dayosh@dayosh-desktop:~$ bitpim
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/share/bitpim/code/bp.py", line 20, in <module>
    import wx
ImportError: No module named wx
```

Interestingly enough, there's also a file in the update repositories which is constantly on my "Available Update" list, yet I am unallowed to download ( python-wxgtk2.8 ).  I feel there is at least some coincidence or relationship between the fact that I am unable to download this file, and the fact that BitPim no longer opens for me.  There has been at least one bug report made that I'm aware of: [_[COLOR="Blue"]Here[/COLOR]_]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bitpim/+bug/254457")

The bug report is for Ubuntu Intrepid.  I personally am running Hardy Heron (8.04), so I'm assuming it's affecting multiple variations.  I've been continuing to monitor the situation, but it doesn't look like any progress has been made, as of yet.  Will report back in if I find anything new, though.   

Sorry I can't be of any more help than that.  :)

---

### Post by dayosh on 2009-03-30
Success!  Huzzah, and yay.   Finally fixed this pest of a problem.  I found the solution _[COLOR="Blue"][here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wxwidgets2.8/+bug/211553")[/COLOR]_, but I'll just give the short and sweet details (it's a LOT of text in that link, being a bug report, and all):

First, add the following source to your Sources list:

```
deb http://apt.wxwidgets.org/ hardy-wx main
```

I used to have a source that ended in "etch-wx main".  If you have a similar source, delete it.  Your sources list will reload upon closing the window.


Next, open your repository and download "python-wxgtk2.8".  You should now have the following 3 things installed:

1. python-wxgtk2.6
2. python-wxgtk2.8
3. Bitpim

Your Bitpim program should now open up with no problems.   :D


Cheers!  Let me know if this helps, Karlmp.   :)

---

### Post by dayosh on 2009-03-30
Also, as an added note:

I currently own a Samsung Alias (SCH-u740).  Unsure what brand/model phone you have, but if your phone isn't listed in the repository version of Bitpim (1.0.2), then you probably ought to download the new DEB version from the bitpim site.  I did, and my phone was listed in the new version (1.0.6).  Also, you may (or may not, depending) need to run "sudo bitpim" from a terminal in order for Bitpim to be able to open the USB port and find your phone.

Anywho, just an fyi.  Cheers!   :)

---

