---
title: "8.10: Firefox lost it's window..."
date: 2008-11-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by shatteredmindofbob on 2008-11-04
Okay, here's a problem that happened suddenly. Firefox lost it's title bar and started hiding the gnome-panel. It's not in full screen mode since the button bar is still there. 

In fact, I can get the gnome-panels back by putting it in fullscreen and taking it out. 

But I still can't get the title bar back, so I can't minimize it or anything else. 

Aside from that, alt-tabbing causes weird glitches. 

Anyone have any idea what's going on and how to fix it?

Thanks.

---

### Post by shatteredmindofbob on 2008-11-04
I should add, I'm NOT using Emerald...the problem looks almost like what happens when you switch to an emerald theme and then kill it...

(Edited to clarify that Emerald is NOT running, it's not even installed in this computer...)

---

### Post by shatteredmindofbob on 2008-11-04
The last thing I did before it happened the first time was load a video on YouYube, could it be a flash bug? 

Though I haven't loaded any flash since rebooting (which didn't fix anything) and it's still doing it.

---

### Post by ZOOstation on 2008-11-04
its*

"It's" is short for "it is."
Sorry, it's a pet peeve.

---

### Post by shatteredmindofbob on 2008-11-04
> **ZOOstation said:**
> its*

"It's" is short for "it is."
Sorry, it's a pet peeve.

Normally I wouldn't have made such a mistake, but this is really irritating. 

Now I can't see the bottom part of Firefox...

---

### Post by shatteredmindofbob on 2008-11-04
Interesting. I was able to bring the Gnome panels back by dragging them back up...like as if the Windows task bar had been shrunk too small. 

Half the problem solved...but Firefox still doesn't seem to be contained in it's own window, nor can I see the bottom bar. Weird...and annoying.

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2008-11-04
What happens if you press F11 a few times?

---

### Post by shatteredmindofbob on 2008-11-04
> **ad_267 said:**
> What happens if you press F11 a few times?

At first it goes into proper full-screen mode..hitting it again, it just goes back to how it is now (I don't get the window back, though I did before)

Also, when it reverts from full screen mode, I briefly see what looks like snow from an old tv...weird. 

My resolution settings are correct and as I said, this is something that just suddenly happened.

---

### Post by squeabs on 2008-11-04
I had the same problem in Hardy. I think I may have fixed it, but I don't remember how I did it. I'm currently trying to figure it out. If I do, I'll post the solution here. You could try un-installing and re-installing Firefox. I don't know if it'll help the problem go away, though.

---

### Post by hm1992 on 2008-11-08
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=793615](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=793615)

Read this.
This has just fixed mine.

---

### Post by shatteredmindofbob on 2008-11-18
Well, the problem went away on it's own but now it's back and as annoying as ever. And disabling unredirect fullscreen windows in Compiz doesn't help. 

Any time I load Firefox or a new window, I have to immediately hit F11 twice to get my Gnome panels back. 

Any more ideas?

---

### Post by shatteredmindofbob on 2008-12-11
Sorry to bump an old thread back up but I got sick of this problem along with other issues in Intrepid and did a clean install. Worked perfectly...for a week. Now they're ALL back, especially this annoying Firefox issue. 

Now, I couldn't help but notice that it started right after I installed Cairo-Dock...any chance there's a connection? 

Granted, I completely uninstalled it and restarted and the issue is still there...

---

### Post by shatteredmindofbob on 2008-12-11
Anyone?

---

### Post by shatteredmindofbob on 2008-12-11
Also, the latest beta of Firefox is doing the same thing, so it seems to be a problem with Ubuntu itself...

---

### Post by shatteredmindofbob on 2008-12-11
Ha! I've figured it out! "Legacy fullscreen support" under Workarounds in Compiz Fusion is the culprit!

Though I am curious as to why this would take a week to suddenly happen and why it's intermittent. 

That and for some reason, typing in a text box is now REALLY slow...In fact, everything in Firefox is REALLY slow now....um, please don't tell me I actually NEED that plug-in enabled...

---

### Post by uarale on 2008-12-11
resize the window to a smaller size so that it is completely in the screen, then maximize the windows. Restart the firefox.

From this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=775909](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=775909)
worked for me

---

