---
title: "12.04 and a Rigblaster CD"
date: 2012-08-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by TFSinclair on 2012-08-31
I'm using Ubuntu 12.04 and am trying to load drivers and other software from a Rigblaster Plug and Play CD.  I keep getting the  same error message of " no Windows program exists to open this file".

As I'm trying to install the bloody linux drivers and get this message, you may see the frustrating point.   Any suggestions?

Too, where is the Terminal in 12.04 so I can do a bit of programming?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2012-08-31
TFSinclair;

  Hi ! welcome to the forum.

Firstly , this is a linux distribution, one does not do in ubuntu in the manner of windows.
Subsequently, ubuntu will not execute windows executables. There is a different idiology
I will admit a steep learning curve.

That said, we are glad to help. What drivers that ubuntu did not have in the install are you having problems with.? With the information provided we can advise where/how to install them.

Terminal: The easiest way to bring up a terminal; press ctl-alt-t  ...or the top button on the dash panel/ in the search bar enter the term "terminal".

[INDENT]kindest regards <==BDQ

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by TFSinclair on 2012-09-01
Basking Om,
I know that this is linux and not bloody Windows. My problem is tht I cannot get the Linux drivers of of the CD that came with the hardware so I cannot use the hardware.
On the CD are files marked "Linux drivers X86" and "Linux drivers X64".  
The question is "How do I get the drivers from the CD to the proper place on the Linux computer.

When attemting to do this so far, no matter how or when I do it, I get the error message noted in my original post.

TFSinclair

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2012-09-01
My apologies for my denseness///
pulling drivers off of a cd I have never attempted.
Recommended way is manufacture's ppa if the required drivers are not available within the  on-board Hardware additional drivers utility.

Ubuntu developers maintain a drivers update ppa that may be appropriate in your situation.

Advise what divers you need and will see what we can do.

[INDENT]regards <==BDQ
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by TFSinclair on 2012-09-01
What I have is a piece of Ham Radio equiptment called a Rigblaster Plug and Play.  The drivers for this piece of eqiuptment are on the CD that came with the Rigblaster.  They are propriatary driver for the Rigblaster to work on a Linux  computer.  I need to get the bloody drivers off of the CD and into the computer.  If I right click on the drivers folder on the CD, it does not give me any option to extract or install the drivers. If I left click on the folder containing  the drivers  on the CD, I get the "windows" message I originally posted of.  Trying to get the drivers using Wine has led to no joy and a system crash or two.
Now that is as clear as I can make it.
TFSinclair

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-09-02
> **TFSinclair said:**
> What I have is a piece of Ham Radio equiptment called a Rigblaster Plug and Play.  The drivers for this piece of eqiuptment are on the CD that came with the Rigblaster.  They are propriatary driver for the Rigblaster to work on a Linux  computer.  I need to get the bloody drivers off of the CD and into the computer.  If I right click on the drivers folder on the CD, it does not give me any option to extract or install the drivers. If I left click on the folder containing  the drivers  on the CD, I get the "windows" message I originally posted of.  Trying to get the drivers using Wine has led to no joy and a system crash or two.
Now that is as clear as I can make it.
TFSinclair

As you've found, the drivers won't install with just a click. There should be a readme, or install.txt on the CD telling you how to install the proprietary drivers, that more than likely involves compiling the software.

---

### Post by TFSinclair on 2012-09-02
After finally getting Wine to open the CD and accessing the drivers files, what do I find but that the linux drivers are set on the CD with Windows execution files!  I've never seen  this type of foolishness before!
So, on Teusday I'll contact  West Mountain Radio and try to get some sense and a solution from them. 

Thanks for all the help that was offered.
TFSinclair

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2012-09-02
Yeah, some companies do not realize the impact linux has on the present computing world.

 If I might add one suggestion; can you go to the oem's web site and see if they have the drivers and an install process ? The thought of compiling from source is daunting to me but, it can be done.

[INDENT]regards <==BDQ
[/INDENT]

---

