---
title: "12.04 works great. Should I upgrade to 14.04?"
date: 2014-05-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by riverguy99 on 2014-05-15
I've installed 12.04 on four of our office and home computers about two months ago.  All are running perfectly, happily, with no glitches whatsoever.  Is there a compelling reason for me to upgrade any or all of these machines to 14.04? I'm kinda thinking not to mess around with something that works as well as it is working now, but I keep hearing about everybody upgrading.  

Another of our machines is running 12.10.  Maybe this one should be upgraded?

Any thoughts?  :p

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-05-15
12.10 should be upgraded as it is no longer suported, but if 12.04 is doing all.you need there is really no need to update that as it has three more years support.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2014-05-16
> **ajgreeny said:**
> 12.10 should be upgraded as it is no longer suported, but if 12.04 is doing all.you need there is really no need to update that as it has three more years support.

+1 for 12.04 If it's not broke leave it alone.

12.10 really needs to be updated or upgraded. I prefer to backup my data and do a fresh install.

---

### Post by Danger_Monkey on 2014-05-16
I agree.  I have about 90 12.04LTS machines, and I won't be upgrading until at lease 14.04.1 is out.

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-05-16
12.04 is LTS that is supported until April 2017. For the sake of consistency you might consider running 12.04 on the machine currently running 12.10.

---

### Post by olliemonster on 2014-05-16
You should only upgrade if one of the upgrades made to 12.10, 13.04, 13.10 or 14.04 is useful to you. For example if you have a secure boot windows 8 machiene 14.04 would be easier than 12.04.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-05-16
I will wait til July when 14.04.1 comes out. 14.04 is buggy now, but it is very fast. And I would not recommend 'upgrade', it takes a long time and is not very reliable, do a clean install instead.

---

### Post by whitesmith on 2014-05-16
+1 to monkeybrain20122 in general, but keep  all machines at the same version. This does not mean just the OS, but the kernel as well. I would also make sure that point releases agree. To get them run:```
lsb_release -a
```Doing this can eliminate bizarre problems in which machine a exhibits behavior x, but machine b exhibits behavior y. That's a bedeviling problem with networked machines. Cheers!

---

### Post by riverguy99 on 2014-05-16
Thanks, everybody, for your suggestions!  I will leave our 12.04 machines alone since they are all working flawlessly and do what we need them to do.  And on the one with 12.10, I like the suggestion to "go back" to a clean install of 12.04 instead of upgrading to 14.04.  That way all our machines would be the same and easier for me (the resident IT guy) to deal with.  

Is there any urgency to do anything with the 12.10 machine?  Are there known issues that I'm looking forward to?  Again, I kind of like the "if it ain't broke . . ." theory.  The only reason this machine has 12.10 is that I bought it that way off of eBay.  I'd hate to open up a hardware/driver can of worms by doing an unecessary distro switch.

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-05-17
@riverguy99, You can try 12.04.4 as a live dvd /usb prior to a clean install ... place to [download]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.04/")

---

### Post by frytek on 2014-05-17
"if it works, don't touch it". 
that's my motto. :) 

i've been using linux since 1998 and, to tell you the truth, i don't like playing with my system anymore, so i only update when i need a program / function that is not there in my version. at first i was upadting always, then i switched to LTS releases only, now i'd rather update only if the support for LTS is about to be over. or if some program / function requires a newer release (ant these days it is not common). :)

---

### Post by riverguy99 on 2014-05-17
> **pfeiffep said:**
> @riverguy99, You can try 12.04.4 as a live dvd /usb prior to a clean install ... place to [download]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.04/")

I'm familiar with 12.04, as I have it on four of our machines.  What I wanted to know is this: We have one 12.10 machine and it's been suggested I upgrade that one to 14.04, or better yet, install 12.04 since it works well for us and we're familiar with it.  To that end, if I just leave the 12.10 machine alone for now, are there  known issues that I'm looking forward to?  Again, I kind of like the "if  it ain't broke . . ." theory.  The only reason this machine has 12.10  is that I bought it that way off of eBay.  I'd hate to open up a  hardware/driver can of worms by doing an unecessary distro switch.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-05-17
Can you afford to use that one box for a guinea pig?  Then upgrade it.  Myself, I wouldn't be good with this because of the upgrade process.

12.10 to 13.04 to 13.10 to 14.04

An LTS (12.04) can upgrade to the next LTS (14.04) and skip the inbetween releases.

---

### Post by riverguy99 on 2014-05-17
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> Can you afford to use that one box for a guinea pig?  Then upgrade it.  Myself, I wouldn't be good with this because of the upgrade process.

12.10 to 13.04 to 13.10 to 14.04

An LTS (12.04) can upgrade to the next LTS (14.04) and skip the inbetween releases.

No, this is my wife's machine and she does not respond with favor to having her computer be anything but predictably reliable at all times!  I've received enough replies advising to do a clean install rather than an upgrade that this is what I would do . . . if I do it at all.

So my question still stands:  What's the worst thing that will happen if I just leave 12.10 on her machine?  Does non-LTS mean that the updates will stop at some point?

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-05-17
> [COLOR=#000000]So my question still stands: What's the worst thing that will happen if I just leave 12.10 on her machine? Does non-LTS mean that the updates will stop at some point?[/COLOR]

Yes, updates will stop at some point.  Then if breakage starts you could open up the EOL sources and maybe breath some more life into it.  Maybe ..

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-05-17
> **riverguy99 said:**
> No, this is my wife's machine and she does not respond with favor to having her computer be anything but predictably reliable at all times!  I've received enough replies advising to do a clean install rather than an upgrade that this is what I would do . . . if I do it at all.

So my question still stands:  What's the worst thing that will happen if I just leave 12.10 on her machine?  Does non-LTS mean that the updates will stop at some point?

To be exactly, updates stopped yesterday. When time passes security holes will be discovered in the versions of programs running on 12.10, most importantly the web browser.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2014-05-17
> **Impavidus said:**
> To be exactly, updates stopped yesterday. When time passes security holes will be discovered in the versions of programs running on 12.10, most importantly the web browser.

+1 to the above. I would either down grade to 12.04 with a fresh install or install 14.04. You can try 14.04 live on a USB/DVD for a few days just to see if everything works.

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-05-17
@riverguy99, I am the resident it guy for our household's technology and full understand your predicament. If you have an external hdd that will connect and boot correctly to your wife's pc you can install 12.04.4 onto that. This provides you the time for you and your wife to fully evaluate 12.04.4 while maintaining all the 12.10 files from her home directory. The disadvantage is once everything's tested out A-OK you'll have another fresh install to mess with (buuuuuuuut your wife should be happy ;-)  ) .

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-05-17
> **pfeiffep said:**
> @riverguy99,  If you have an external hdd that will connect and boot correctly to your wife's pc you can install 12.04.4 onto that. This provides you the time for you and your wife to fully evaluate 12.04.4 while maintaining all the 12.10 files from her home directory. **The disadvantage is once everything's tested out A-OK you'll have another fresh install to mess with (buuuuuuuut your wife should be happy** ;-)  ) .

No, not at all. 

If everything works OK you just clone the system and restore it to the ineternal hard drive. :) 

 That is actually the smartest strategy and that is how I do my OS upgrades. I am still running 13.10 as my "real system", but I have installed 14.04 in an external drive. I take my time to do my tweakings, customizations, file bug reports and wait for bug fixes. I can do extensive testing and experimenting to find the sweet spots without worrying about hosing my work system.  By the time 13.10 reaches end of life in July I would have pretty much set up 14.04 to my satisfaction and I will just clone it with fsarchiver, erase 13.10 and restore the clone, then move data over from backup.  That way there will be no nasty surprises and the transition would be real smooth. [IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/smilies/icon_smile.gif[/IMG] It beats both clean install and "upgrade" with the update-manager,--which is the most unreliable process,--hands down.

The test system is set up with minimal user data so cloning and restoring can be done fast (so no music, videos, documents and other junks which can be backed up trivailly with any file backup software, just configurations and settings in /home). The data from 13.10 of course needed to be backup before erasing the OS..
 
BTW 14.04 is still a bit raw IMO. I will not make it my real system at this point.

---

