---
title: "10.10 Update Trouble"
date: 2011-03-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by muddpup64 on 2011-03-03
I was going to update my 10.04 machine to a 10.10 but as it was going through it's "thing", then this popped up:

```
Could not calculate the upgrade

An unresolvable problem occurred while calculating the upgrade:
E:Error, pkgProblemResolver::Resolve generated breaks, this may be caused by held packages.

 This can be caused by:
 * Upgrading to a pre-release version of Ubuntu
 * Running the current pre-release version of Ubuntu
 * Unofficial software packages not provided by Ubuntu

If none of this applies, then please report this bug against the 'update-manager' package and include the files in /var/log/dist-upgrade/ in the bug report.
```What should I do?

---

### Post by NCLI on 2011-03-03
First disable all your PPAs, then open Update Manager, click "Check for updates", then try again.

---

### Post by muddpup64 on 2011-03-03
> **NCLI said:**
> First disable all your PPAs, then open Update Manager, click "Check for updates", then try again.

And how would I do that?
I think I disabled my PPA's (not sure) but it did not work.

---

### Post by muddpup64 on 2011-03-04
I disabled all my PPA's and it still doesn't work.

---

### Post by Amber2011 on 2011-03-04
I am having the same problem. Yesterday I tried the upgrade and got the same message as you. I just want to do it from Ubuntu. It is annoying isn't it? I thought it was going to be easy. I don't know, maybe it is not worth it. Maybe there is not much difference between the two. 10.04 is running good, perhaps I should let it alone. I hope you get it though.

I read, somewhere on this forum that if you make any changes AT ALL since you installed 10.04, that the upgrade will not work. I am looking for it, I should have saved it.

OK mikewhatever, thank you for the correction, I changed it.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-03-04
There is no way to upgrade from the cd, let alone update. If you mean reinstalling, then yes, but it's not upgrading. Anyway, what unofficial packages have you installed?

---

### Post by Amber2011 on 2011-03-04
Here it is. Give me a yell if I am misunderstanding.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1699060](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1699060)

---

### Post by muddpup64 on 2011-03-09
I think I'll stick with "Long Term Support".
Thanks.

---

