---
title: "Changes not affecting resolv.conf"
date: 2014-07-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kiran9 on 2014-07-16
Hi ,
I'm trying to change the resolv.conf but changes are not affected after I reboot the Ubuntu 14.04 LTS server.
I'm using the static ip address for my eth1 and I removed " domain-name-servers and  domain-search" from /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf. 
I did change in /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/base. But changes will not effect after I reboot my machine. 

Here is current resolv.conf 

===================
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 10.1.10.1

I want it as below.
================
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
domain rokkam.org
nameserver 192.168.56.102
search rokkam.org


Please help me .. These steps are necessary to setup a SAMBA 4 for active directory. 

Thanks & Regards
Kiran rokkam

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2014-07-16
Hello and welcome to the forums

You also shouldn't need to mess with the resolvconv base/head files - instead, add 

```

dns-nameservers 192.168.56.102
dns-search rokkam.org

```

to the static interface definition in your /etc/network/interfaces file (AFAIK, the **domain** setting is superfluous if you have a **search** field). Otherwise you will need to disable / remove the resolvconf service and revert to a manually-configured /etc/resolv.conf file

I'd suggest reverting the changes you made to the dhclient configuration - it should not have any effect on statically-configured interfaces.

---

### Post by kiran9 on 2014-07-17
Thanks for the reply.
I did that but still no luck. 
Anyway I removed the VM I installed new one to have samba on it. 
I will have problems with that too.

I will start a new thread.

Thanks & Regards
Kiran Rokkam

---

