---
title: "10.04 attempted clean install with USB flash drive failed"
date: 2010-08-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pilisopa on 2010-08-16
I am an absolute new user to Ubuntu (from Windows). I installed v8.04 a week ago and when I realized 10.04 was out, I updated to that. 

Unfortunately, I have been having problems with speed, especially after I watch videos (possibly because of Flash). My computer slows down considerably and CPU usage sometimes goes up to 90-100%.

Thus, after reading through the forums for days, I decided I should try a clean reinstall to see if that might fix the problem.

So, I downloaded the 10.04 iso and put it on an Ativa 4GB portable flash USB drive according to the instructions on the Ubuntu website. (I had previously tried burning the iso to a CD and booting from there but that failed as well)

When I rebooted (and I've set the USB to be first in the boot sequence), it checked the USB drive, then on the screen where it typically shows GRUB loading, it says "Missing Operating System" then goes to a screen with some red spots of color at the top and stays there. No typing or keystrokes helps and I just have to shut off my computer and reboot. 

I have a Dell Inspiron E1705 running an Intel Centrino Duo, 1.73 GHz. 
- 70GB HD, 60GB available
- 2GB memory

Does anyone have any suggestions that might fix my problems?

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2010-08-16
Welcome to the forums.  You may have a bad download.  Did you MD5SUM the download?  Since you have already installed Hardy you know that you cannot simply copy the ISO to the CD or the flash drive so the bad download is a possible culprit.

---

### Post by ubudog on 2010-08-16
A bad download has happened to me and ruined many of my installs.

---

### Post by pilisopa on 2010-08-17
Thank you folks.

I did a reinstall with an alternate CD that I burned. It took something like 3 hours but now I'm using 10.04 from a clean install.

I haven't used it long enough to know how well it's going to work but I'm keeping my fingers crossed!

---

### Post by ubudog on 2010-08-17
It should work fine now.  Hope you like Ubuntu!

---

