---
title: "12.04 - trying to install Canon Mx320, can't restart/login to CUPS"
date: 2012-09-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by abexman on 2012-09-10
Trying to install mx320 printer. Downloaded the Debian drivers and was going to try and add the printers in the CUPS wizard. But the CUPS wizard is not accepting my root username and password? I tried to restart CUPS but get:

```
$ /etc/init.d/cups restart
Rather than invoking init scripts through /etc/init.d, use the service(8)
utility, e.g. service cups restart

Since the script you are attempting to invoke has been converted to an
Upstart job, you may also use the stop(8) and then start(8) utilities,
e.g. stop cups ; start cups. The restart(8) utility is also available.
stop: Rejected send message, 1 matched rules; type="method_call", sender=":1.125" (uid=1000 pid=5938 comm="stop cups ") interface="com.ubuntu.Upstart0_6.Job" member="Stop" error name="(unset)" requested_reply="0" destination="com.ubuntu.Upstart" (uid=0 pid=1 comm="/sbin/init")

```What am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-09-10
Try
sudo service cups restart

Could check your user properties (users & groups).
Check your user has "configure printers" ticked..

---

### Post by abexman on 2012-09-10
That command seemed to work. But when I access the user account options, it does not look like there are any advanced options in Ubuntu 12? I can only change username, password, language?

This is from Ubuntu 10 but I have no such button?
[IMG]http://www.liberiangeek.net/wp-content/uploads/2010/10/printer_users_mav_1_thumb1.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by abexman on 2012-09-11
Can someone explain why I cannot access advanced settings per the above screenshot I found online? I have a similar user dialogue but no button or nowhere to access the "configure printers" for my user login.

[IMG]http://www.liberiangeek.net/wp-content/uploads/2010/10/printer_users_mav_1_thumb1.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-09-11
Are you running "Users & Groups" ?
Maybe you tried "Users"..

Right click on the user icon & select advanced settings..
Most likely all is okay...

Desktop..
Click on "dash" icon (unity 12.04); type "print"; select printing..

---

### Post by abexman on 2012-09-11
> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> Are you running "Users & Groups" ?
Maybe you tried "Users"..

Right click on the user icon & select advanced settings..
Most likely all is okay...

Desktop..
Click on "dash" icon (unity 12.04); type "print"; select printing..

I only see "user accounts" in system settings. Not sure where groups is? Does not come up in Dash Home.

When I RMB on Firefox I get "back/forward/reload/stop" etc. But in this dialogue nothing appears, RMB on the avatar in the menu area on left, the selected area on right, and in the username area. The menu  button also does not work here either. Maybe an issue with my Wacom tablet? Is there no other way to access these settings?

---

### Post by abexman on 2012-09-11
FIxed! Loose cable! Doh! Least I know how to spell "loose" vs "lose"!

---

### Post by abexman on 2012-09-12
Well now its not working again. Jobs were toggling automatically without my input from processing to printer not connected. Then I unplugged the printer and plugged it back in and now the current print jobs just show "processing" indefinitely. Weird. Was working last night. Cable plugged in definitely. This seemed to start after I rebooted. Maybe I installed drivers too often and in conflicting ways? How would I attempt a fresh reinstall of the drivers? Or how do I uninstall and reinstall? I tried several methods mentioned on this forum installing!

Status: Idle - Waiting for printer to become available.

# Printer configuration file for CUPS v1.5.3
# Written by cupsd
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE WHEN CUPSD IS RUNNING
<DefaultPrinter Canon-MX320-series>
UUID urn:uuid:0aca3230-c209-372a-7e55-e7e198f06ff1
Info Canon MX320 series
Location cabal-OEM
MakeModel Canon MX320 series Ver.3.10
DeviceURI usb://Canon/MX320%20series?serial=25A53C&interface=1
State Idle
StateTime 1347471738
Type 8425484
Accepting Yes
Shared No
JobSheets none none
QuotaPeriod 0
PageLimit 0
KLimit 0
OpPolicy default
ErrorPolicy retry-job
</Printer>

---

