---
title: "[9.10] Creating a winxp usb boot [urgent]"
date: 2010-12-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Ravenshade on 2010-12-16
Hi there,  

I've run up across a problem so let me first give you the run down. I tried to Dual Boot Ubuntu with Windows XP and all went fine until I found out that I had no internet connection with it. As I have a MESH computer, Ubuntu feels that it won't come pre-packaged with the firm ware. I have no way of getting the firmware on there except through wireless internet. Thus a catch 22 situation. I therefore decided to remove Ubuntu entirely. I did so. 

Windows XP ran fine up until this morning (2 boots later). To come up with the Message: Error: Filesystem not recognized, GRUB Rescue:...or something along those lines. 

I'm aware that to do this I'm gonna need to re-install windows. Unfortunately, the only thing I have is my Ubuntu Netbook with no CD drive. Fortunately however I do have the ISO. (Thank the gods for back-ups). My only problem is...

How do I put this ISO onto a USB stick? I know that there are programs for creating Ubuntu USB's, but I haven't heard of one nor can I find one for windows xp.

Can anyone help me? This is marked urgent because there is sensitive data on the machine that I need to access and while it is all secure, I can't access it without Windows XP. All I need to do is run the boot long enough to initiate the repair.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-12-16
Was this the first time you had booted, or tried to boot, into windows after removing Ubuntu?

If it was you may be able to restore a windows type MBR to your hard disk using the live USB version of Ubuntu:-
```
sudo apt-get install lilo
```Ignore the warning then
```
sudo lilo -M  /dev/sda mbr
```Then you should be able to boot directly into Windows again if all goes well.

If you've already got rid of windows, however, ignore this.

However, have you looked at a newer version of Ubuntu?  10.04 and 10.10 have generally much better wireless compatibility than 9.10, and would be worth trying.  Do you know what the wireless adapter in the machine is, as it may be possible to get it running without too much work.

---

### Post by Gordonbp531 on 2010-12-16
Presumably you are posting this from another computer. What OS is that one using?

---

### Post by Ravenshade on 2010-12-16
I will try the above method, but first allow me to fill you in on some information. 

Firstly, I have two computers. A new desktop with windows xp and my netbook with Ubuntu (Netbook Remix). 

Secondly. It is my Desktop that I had tried to dual boot ubuntu with. The latest version 10.10 I think. After install, the wireless wouldn't work: Firmware update required. Since I couldn't get the firmware onto it except through connecting to the wireless, then I'm pretty much screwed in that manner. Therefore, I chose to remove ubuntu. After some unsuccessful attempts I 'sledgehammered' it by using Windows XP to complete remove the partition and all its contents. 

Thirdly, this is actually the third time and it is only on this third time that I've had the problem and it won't go away :( Anyway, from what evidence I can gather, obviously my above method removed some vital information which took the computer some time to catch up with. 

Fourth. No I haven't gotten rid of windows. I use it to play games which so far...I'm actually having no luck on... something about the page file size mattering (4gb of ram and the page file still matters? pft). 

Fifth. Sorry for any confusion. My UNR (Netbook) is 9.10 since I don't wanna upgrade to 10.04 until it gets to at least 10.1 and even then... the Desktop is or at least was, WinXP/Ubuntu10.10, now its just a dysfunctional WinXP. 

Sixth. Unfortunately I don't know what adapter it is...(not something that comes up everyday) I'll see what I can find out. 

Seventh: I'm posting this from my netbook. Ubuntu 9.10 and by far the best Ubuntu. 10.10 didn't even match up on the screen of my desktop properly much to my dismay.

---------------
Results...Due to no internet connection.... failed.

Still in that catch 22 Situation, no internet connection = no update. No update = no internet connection.

---------------

Instead of using apt-get how would I go about getting a package through another system (trying to work around the 'no internet connection' issue.)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-12-16
> Instead of using apt-get how would I go about getting a package through  another system (trying to work around the 'no internet connection'  issue.) 	To find out all the dependencies you need for a package you can use synaptic and mark for installation.  Then instead of clicking Apply, go to File, save markings and save them as a txt file; just a list.

You can then use any computer connected, even windows and go to the [http://packages.ubuntu.com/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/) from where you can search out each package on the list and download them.

A bit tortuous, but possible.  Then install them all with ```
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
``` from the folder where you copied them to.

---

### Post by Ravenshade on 2010-12-16
Erm... 

I solved my internet connection. Ethernet Cable + Power Drill + Wall = Hardwire connection. 

Bit extreme but took less time. Will retry those instructions back up there.

----------
Still got the Grub issue I'm afraid. 
```

error: unknown filesystem
grub rescue>_

```

-----------
Since I have no disc, I've managed to track down the installed version of it. >.< . ([http://ask-leo.com/i_have_no_cd_how_do_i_get_at_windows_xp_setup.html](http://ask-leo.com/i_have_no_cd_how_do_i_get_at_windows_xp_setup.html)) Now all i need to do is convert it to something useable...back to square one.

---

### Post by Ravenshade on 2010-12-16
SOLVED. 

greeny was correct. *bows* Just for some reason my machine didn't want to accept it the first thirty tries. 

Here's the reference material I found to make sure I was doing everything correctly. 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)

---

