---
title: "System Hang-Up after Login [8.10]"
date: 2009-01-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Xman6699 on 2009-01-29
Hello,
I just installed Ubunut 8.10, 1st thing i did was installing the Graphic crad, I have LG P1 Pro, ATI Mobility Radeon X1400. I wanted to install ATI driver so I followed this guide:
[http://hi.baidu.com/xczm/blog/item/00077e3e8b7bd83a70cf6cee.html](http://hi.baidu.com/xczm/blog/item/00077e3e8b7bd83a70cf6cee.html)


After That I reboot. When I ever Login It load but Hang-Up after that... I don't know what I should, I'm using Live-CD to post this....

Please help me :<

Xorg.conf:
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-29
Try booting into recovery mode.

---

### Post by Xman6699 on 2009-01-29
I booted in recovery mode and did system check... I booted normally, everything went ok for like 3min then Hang-Up again :/ 


I think I have to remove the packeges i download from the guide.. but I don't know how I do that with Live-CD ._.

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-29
> **Xman6699 said:**
> I think I have to remove the packeges i download from the guide.. but I don't know how I do that with Live-CD ._.

At the login screen (of your installed Ubuntu) I think you can click on "session" and select "Failsafe Terminal".  I haven't tried it myself, and I'm not on my Ubuntu machine, but it's worth a shot.  If it's truly a problem with the graphics card, it shouldn't hang if the Gnome isn't loaded.

From the terminal you should be able to run xfix to solve your problem, or just undo all of the commands you did previously.

Also, you may want to try the "Failsafe Gnome" option.

---

### Post by Xman6699 on 2009-01-30
I reinstalled everything and used the normal way, it worked fine, even tho there is some graphic slight problem but i can live with it, but How do I check if my 3-D acc is working ?

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-30
> **Xman6699 said:**
> I reinstalled everything and used the normal way, it worked fine, even tho there is some graphic slight problem but i can live with it, but How do I check if my 3-D acc is working ?

In the terminal type:
```
glxgears
```

I'm sorry to hear that you had to reinstall.

---

### Post by Xman6699 on 2009-01-30
Well, Here is the deal, Whenever I run glxgears ... the gears pop and hang up the system, tried to do that 4 times, I end up shutting down the laptop manually. 
Besides I already have a problem with the sound driver, I followed some guides but still I weren't able the fix this problem with sound.

So, I did another fresh copy to start over. 
As usual, I need to fix this major 2 problem, Graphic and Sound, The question here is:
Should I update the system, before trying to fix the sound and graphic? 

Because I already made about 4 fresh copies, within 3 days..

P.S. can I have some guide for fixing graphic and sound :/ ?

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-30
> **Xman6699 said:**
> Should I update the system, before trying to fix the sound and graphic?

Updating your system might solve your problems.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2009-01-30
My suggestion is to run all updates before installing the graphics driver; that's what I've done, FWIW, without issue (and sometimes, having the updates installed takes care of some other problems) on both 8.04 and 8.10, as well as on LinuxMint 5 and LinuxMint 6. Seems to go well for me; your experience may well be different.

---

### Post by Xman6699 on 2009-01-30
I just did 1 thing when I logged into the fresh copy Activating the Graphic driver. It screwed up everything... 

Anyway, I just deactivated after about 3 tries of system hang up. I will do the update and see if the graphic still hangs up ...

BTW, do I need to install Catalys from ATI ? or just activating the Restricted Driver will bring the ATI dirver ?


P.S. can someone give me a link to how i can fix the sound problem? I have no sounds at all even tho i chose ALSA

---

