---
title: "10.04 LTS VS Netbook Remix questions"
date: 2010-05-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mikedaub on 2010-05-25
Log time Windows user switched over to OS X probably about 9 years ago when I started dating into a "mac" family (her brother is a mac genius and now is the Mac IT guy at a major hospital).  Anyway, got myself a nice Asus Eee Pc 1005PE and it came with Win7 on it.  I really don't feel like going back to the windows OS.

I have been playing around off and on with Ubuntu for the past couple of years, but nothing major, just playing around to see what it is about.  So, now with the netbook, I have decided to go back to a form of Linux.  After some talking with my brother, who is all about Linux and very capable but not always available, we decided on Arch but it didn't work 100% with my netbook.  Screen brightness was off, it flickered a lot, and just some other things.  

So, we went with the Ubuntu netbook edition since I "kinda" knew my way around Ubuntu.  It seems to work real well, but I just didn't like the lay out.  I prefer a really clean looking desktop with no clutter, and didn't like the layout of the screen, with all the icons on it.  

Another switch to regular Ubuntu (the version before 10.04, sorry I don't know the name or number) and everything was working well.  Screen brightness worked, sound, wifi, blah blah blah.  I liked where it was going.  Then, it upgraded itself to 10.04.  I figured, ah, why not.  It worked before, the upgrade should.  Well, it doesn't work like I would like it to.  The major issue is the screen brightness is off.  When I hit the brightness buttons, on a scale of 1-10 (1 being dimmest, 10 brightest) it goes something like 1, 3, 5, 2, 0, 1, 5, 4, 6.  Basically, all over the place and not in any type of order, so it is a big guessing game what brightness it will be.  Also, when I let it sit for a second, the screen powers off and I can only get brightness back from using the buttons.

OK, long back story, and I apologize, but here is the question.  I tried to do all the fixes that I googled on this forum to get the brightness fixed, but nothing seemed to help.  I guess my question is about the netbook remix.  Is there anyway to clean up the desktop and move the icons into the task bars like in the standard Ubutnu??  I guess, worst case scenario, I learn to live with the icons on the desktop, I just want something that works..

Thanks in advance...

---

### Post by fooman on 2010-05-25
after installing ubuntu netbook remix 10.04....you should have the option of booting into a standard ubuntu (regular gnome without the netbook desktop)  when you are @ the login screen.  

when you get to the login screen, click once on your name,  then at the bottom of the screen choose *gnome* from the menu.

---

### Post by iNaitvad on 2010-05-25
did u update/upgrade or make a CLEAN install??

---

### Post by SRST Technologies on 2010-05-25
> **iNaitvad said:**
> did u update/upgrade or make a CLEAN install??

What does it change on his desktop configuration if he did or did not?

---

### Post by jerenept on 2010-05-25
updates are generally not recommended. it is better to restore from backups, which have been continuous and are very much recommended. BackInTime is great, and it's in the repos.
```
sudo apt-get install backintime-gnome
```
or 
Ubuntu Software Center -- search for Backintime

---

### Post by mikedaub on 2010-05-25
> **iNaitvad said:**
> did u update/upgrade or make a CLEAN install??

The update to 10.04 came from when I did a software update via the software manager.  

As far as anything else goes, in terms of backups and all that jazz, I didn't have anything saved on it.  I was only about a week or 2 with it installed during all my switching, to I didn't, or won't lose anything with a new, fresh install.  

I am going to give the new netbook remix a whirl and see what happens.  I am going to give Fooman's advice a shot and see what happens with that.  If it doesn't work, I am at the very least, in the same spot I am in now...

---

### Post by mikedaub on 2010-05-26
Well, the install of the remix didn't work so well.  I loaded it onto the jump drive, fired everything up, and couldn't move the cursor one bit.  For some reason, neither track pad or buttons worked.  So, I guess I won't be using that.  

I figure the best thing would be to just get used to the goofy screen brightness issue and move on with it...

Thanks for all the suggestions and help..

---

### Post by mikedaub on 2010-05-27
> **jerenept said:**
> updates are generally not recommended. 

Why are updates not recommended?  If the update comes straight from Ubuntu, shouldn't I be fine?  What else would I do, baack up the system, wipe the drive clean and do a fresh install?  Seems a little tedious...

---

