---
title: "10.04 Update200mb approx"
date: 2011-01-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by timberframe on 2011-01-01
Eeec pc XP installed on hard drive c partition - new install on partition d ubuntu 10.04 LTS worked ok, assessed both o/s update manager downloaded 200 mb approx. update, as it was getting to end of this installation a screen came up with box to tick reference grub - i did not tick this -  the next screen a box came up reference dev? I ticked this (rightly or wrongly) it finished the update.  When I re-started the following message came up @grub loading error: no such device: 6bc3814e-5386-4210-b838-3e48f8e5e459 grub rescue

Can anyone help please - this is the second netbook it has done it too, rendering them useless

I have been using ubuntu 9.10 which is a very good system

It seems to me the update should have a dummy safe option for people like me and a expert option for everyone else!

---

### Post by timberframe on 2011-01-01
Eeepc netbook - XP on partition c downloaded 10.04 LTS with wubi installer in windows - installed on partion d of hard drive - installed ok - had no wireless so connected by cable to internet - update manager came up with a 200mb approx update which downloaded and installed to the point of new window with reference to tick box for grub - I did not tick this next window reference to dev? I did tick and it completed update, when I pressed re-start and when the computer fired up it had a blank screen with the following message: grub loading error: no such device: 6bc3814e-538b-4210-b3838-3e48f8e5e459 grub rescue>-

I can get no further

Can anyone help please

This is the second computer it has done this on.

I have sucessfuly used 9.10 which was a super system.

It seems as if you need a dummy version for the likes of me and a expert for others.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-01-01
Hi, grub updates in Wubi with recent versions of Ubuntu are known to give problems. See this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1639198](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1639198)

It look as though you have problem#1.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2011-01-01
Hi and welcome, please do not create multiple threads on the same issue. Threads merged :)

---

