---
title: "11.10 - Need help with Rhythmbox Plugins"
date: 2011-11-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by B-2-10 on 2011-11-24
Hi, I'm trying to install a few plugins for Rhythmbox 2.90.1 (from [http://live.gnome.org/RhythmboxPlugins/ThirdParty](http://live.gnome.org/RhythmboxPlugins/ThirdParty) )
Namely I want to install the 10 band EQ, an alarm clock, tab search and remember the rhythm.

As a total newbie, the instructions (or lack thereof in some cases) are not very useful on the source code sites, and usually out of date.
Most are telling me to untar things to ~/.gnome2/rhythmbox/plugins/ but this directory doesn't exist.
I tried to paste the untarred folders into /usr/share/rhythmbox/plugins but I don't have the permissions to do so. I also tried to do this from the command line using root privileges, and it tells me "omitting directory ___"

I'm a little stuck!

Sorry if this is a repost, I did a search but nothing came up...

---

### Post by dez93_2000 on 2011-12-01
Close rhythmbox then copy this:

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:loneowais/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install remember-the-rhythm

then ctrl+shift+V them into terminal one by one. Then click this:

[https://github.com/luqmana/rhythmbox-plugins/zipball/master](https://github.com/luqmana/rhythmbox-plugins/zipball/master)

and download & unpack it to /home. Go there in a nautilus window. Then type this into terminal:

gksu nautilus /usr/lib/rhythmbox/plugins
Cut & paste the 3 folders from /home to the plugins directory. Open rhythmbox. Hopefully they're there and working. I find they're there but 'get album art' and equaliser aren't working.

---

### Post by B-2-10 on 2011-12-01
It worked for Remember the Rhythm, but not the others... Any further suggestions?

---

