---
title: "11.10 launcher appears behind open windows"
date: 2011-12-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jermza on 2011-12-09
I've rebooted a few times and nothing changes. My open windows appear IN FRONT of the launcher's tooltips and dash.

WTF?

Does anyone else have this problem and perhaps know what to do?

EDIT: To be clear, this happens every time I log into Ubuntu. The launcher's tooltips and dash open BEHIND whatever is open on my screen, rendering it useless. I have to move my apps out of the way so that I can see the dash.

---

### Post by orange2k on 2011-12-09
You just have to move the pointer to the left of the screen and the launcher will appear. It autohides when applications are open and cover the launcher area...

---

### Post by jermza on 2011-12-09
No, not the launcher. I've got the launcher set to Always Visible. But the tooltips end up behind the open apps. And if I open the dash, it appears BEHIND whatever is open.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-12-09
There has been a bug report filed on that problem . [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/805087](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/805087)

---

### Post by jermza on 2011-12-14
I've noticed that Unity's dash appears behind and in front of open windows sporadically. A few minutes ago it opened behind Thunderbird. Now it opens in front of Thunderbird (which is correct).

I've not done anything unusual, so I'm wondering what triggered the change in focus. This has happened a few times during a session, but I can't seem to find the pattern that triggers the change.

Anyone else experience this and knows what to do?

---

### Post by gesti on 2011-12-15
> **jermza said:**
> I've noticed that Unity's dash appears behind and in front of open windows sporadically. A few minutes ago it opened behind Thunderbird. Now it opens in front of Thunderbird (which is correct).

I've not done anything unusual, so I'm wondering what triggered the change in focus. This has happened a few times during a session, but I can't seem to find the pattern that triggers the change.

Anyone else experience this and knows what to do?
Have the same issue, the solution is to run in terminal:
```
unity& disown
```I looked at the bug report, it says that the fix has already been released back in September...

---

### Post by jermza on 2011-12-16
It seems that, when leaving alone Unity's settings in Compiz, this issue doesn't give me hassles. But as soon as I change something - like, for example, setting the launcher to "never hide" - this focus issue pops up.

In other words, all seems okay if I don't tweak Unity's settings in Compiz.

But I can't verify this.

---

### Post by jermza on 2011-12-21
This issue doesn't seem to be resolved, despite what some say. As I type this, my Unity launcher dash opens behind Firefox (or Thunderbird or Gimp etc).

It's very infuriating.

---

