---
title: "Yet Another Screen Resolution Problem in Hardy"
date: 2008-05-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mathgirl1990 on 2008-05-14
Just upgraded to Hardy from Dapper. My current screen resolution is 1600x1200. I have a 1280x800 screen. The Monitor Resolution settings allows the 1280x800 resolution, but when I click on it, the screen goes all funky, sort of like ever line is shifted or something. I the xorg.conf is different from dapper, so I'm at a loss here.

---

### Post by Living2007 on 2008-05-14
> **mathgirl1990 said:**
> Just upgraded to Hardy from Dapper. My current screen resolution is 1600x1200. I have a 1280x800 screen. The Monitor Resolution settings allows the 1280x800 resolution, but when I click on it, the screen goes all funky, sort of like ever line is shifted or something. I the xorg.conf is different from dapper, so I'm at a loss here.

Try Screens and Monitor or Resolution.

---

### Post by ZabiGG on 2008-05-14
Let me guess... ATI or NVidia card, right?

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-05-14
What brand of video card are you using? It is always best to configure your screen using the tools provided by the company (use nvidia-settings for nVidia cards, etc).

---

### Post by mathgirl1990 on 2008-05-15
> **ZabiGG said:**
> Let me guess... ATI or NVidia card, right?

Don't know. How do I check that (sorry, I've never had to do this before)

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-05-15
> **mathgirl1990 said:**
> Don't know. How do I check that (sorry, I've never had to do this before)

What video card is in your computer? If you arent sure, just open up terminal and run:

```
lspci
```

and post the output for us to take a look at.

---

### Post by mathgirl1990 on 2008-05-15
here is my xorg.conf file:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
  Driver    "kbd"
  Option    "XkbRules"  "xorg"
  Option    "XkbModel"  "pc104"
  Option    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
  Driver    "mouse"
  Option    "CorePointer"
  Option    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
  Driver    "synaptics"
  Option    "SendCoreEvents"  "true"
  Option    "Device"    "/dev/psaux"
  Option    "Protocol"    "auto-dev"
  Option    "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
  Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
  Identifier  "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
  Identifier  "Default Screen"
  Monitor   "Configured Monitor"
  Device    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
  Identifier  "Default Layout"
  Screen    "Default Screen"
  InputDevice "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by mathgirl1990 on 2008-05-15
> **EXCiD3 said:**
> What video card is in your computer? If you arent sure, just open up terminal and run:

```
lspci
```

and post the output for us to take a look at.

here you go:
```

00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:00.1 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:00.2 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:00.3 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. PT890 Host Bridge
00:00.4 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:00.7 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237 PCI Bridge
00:06.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR2413 802.11bg NIC (rev 01)
00:0f.0 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VIA VT6420 SATA RAID Controller (rev 80)
00:0f.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 06)
00:10.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.4 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 86)
00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237 ISA bridge [KT600/K8T800/K8T890 South]
00:11.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 60)
00:11.6 Communication controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 80)
00:12.0 Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6102 [Rhine-II] (rev 78)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. UniChrome Pro IGP (rev 01)

```

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-05-15
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. UniChrome Pro IGP (rev 01)

That is the video card you have. I've heard VIA has awful linux support.

---

### Post by mathgirl1990 on 2008-05-15
> **EXCiD3 said:**
> 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. UniChrome Pro IGP (rev 01)

That is the video card you have. I've heard VIA has awful linux support.

Nuts, is there anything I can do?

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-05-15
Looks like you might be able to try a couple different things. ```
sudo apt-get install 
xserver-xorg-video-unichrome
``` is for 3D support if i read correctly. there is also xserver-xorg-video-openchrome

Here is another thread related to your video card, but not much good news unfortunately :( [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=726465](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=726465)

---

### Post by Living2007 on 2008-05-15
> **mathgirl1990 said:**
> Nuts, is there anything I can do?

This is getting to technical for you isn't?

Do you have a windows OS on your hard drive

---

### Post by mathgirl1990 on 2008-05-15
> **EXCiD3 said:**
> Looks like you might be able to try a couple different things. ```
sudo apt-get install 
xserver-xorg-video-unichrome
``` is for 3D support if i read correctly. there is also xserver-xorg-video-openchrome

Here is another thread related to your video card, but not much good news unfortunately :( [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=726465](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=726465)

Yeah, I guess, I should just wait for openchrome to fix this problem. Argh.

---

### Post by DandyDon on 2008-05-15
> **mathgirl1990 said:**
> Nuts, is there anything I can do?
Yes there is. You can run a different video card in a PCI slot-if you have one available-it will be a white plastic slot about 3-5 inches long on your motherboard.
As previously mentioned, Nvidia has the best Linux support now.

Here is a video card that will work well for you, provided you aren't a gamer and just need display. 

[http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16814133007](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16814133007)

You will need to install the card in the slot and at boot go into your BIOS and set your Video to PCI. Then either go to the Nvidia and download the latest Linux driver and install it, or use Envy NG to do it.(Google it) (I did). 

Hope this helps

---

### Post by MayOne.Net on 2008-05-28
I finally got openchrome to work this afternoon. I have an old gateway laptop with VIA chipset and 1280x768 screen. I had fiesty up and running using openchrome from svn, but when I did a fresh install of hardy for some reason the screen size came up 1600x1200 and freaked out when I tried to change it.

I finally got it working this afternoon based on a lot of the info from this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4860583](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4860583).

I installed openchrome:
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-openchrome

Then ran this command (trusting the other forum users wouldn't lead me astray):
sudo sed -i -e "/Section \"Device\"/,/EndSection/s,.*Driver.*,\tDriver\t\t\"openchrome\",g" /etc/X11/xorg.conf

And modified my xorg.conf adding the appropriate line for openchrome and the screen size. (See attached).

I still need to get video play back working and the screen occasionally freaks out on me, but it at least I can see it.

Also for some reason when I log in, the waiting screen still shows up at 1600x1200.

Hope this helps.

---

