---
title: "10.04 X very slow on dual monitor"
date: 2010-06-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Nachums on 2010-06-01
Dual monitor worked fine on 9.10. After 10.04 clean install, it still displays correctly on both monitors but it is *very* slow. On twinview both monitors are slow. On separate X only the external monitor is slow while the main laptop monitor works fine. 
System: Dell Inspiron 8600
GE force 5200
Nvidia driver 173.

Looking for suggestions on what else can be configured.

---

### Post by Harnak on 2010-06-02
I too am experiencing the same issue on my setup.. 


nVidia Corporation G86 [Quadro NVS 290] (rev a1)

Both monitors rotated (counter-clockwise),   each monitors resolution is 1200x1600.

---

### Post by brutimus on 2010-06-03
I've been experiencing the same since formatting and installing Lucid 64bit.  I have two 24" monitors each having a resolution of 1920x1200.  I see the performance issues using both compiz and metacity compositing, so that made me thing it was an nvidia driver issue.  I've installed the 256 nvidia drivers from the X [ppa]("https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates") but am still seeing issues.

One thing I noticed is lets say i have a clean desktop.  I open a terminal on each monitor.  Now lets say I fullscreen the left terminal and 'less' a large text file.  I can mousewheel scroll up and down very smooth.  Now if I fullscreen the right terminal, then go back and try scrolling the left terminal again, it's horribly choppy.

I can start pasting logs if anyone needs.  This is my work machine that I rarely reboot, but I could if I needed to get clean logs.

UPDATE: After playing around for a bit, I realize it doesn't much matter where I have the second fullscreen window (ie. it can be on a different desktop).  But as soon as I fullscreen another window, my first one I test scrolling in starts bogging down.

UPDATE2: After more playing and a couple reboots trying more driver changes (back to running 256 though for what I'm about to say)... I boot up and start setting up my work environment across my 6 virtual desktops (2 screens each).  I get 7 terminals open (one fullscreen per desktop), eclipse open (using a full 2-screen desktop), 3 instances of chrome (one full desktop) xchat and empathy.  After opening each app/window, I check performance with the scroll test mentioned above.  I get all these windows open and everything is still fast.  I then get distracted catching up on missed IRC chatter for a couple minutes, then i go to do the scroll test again and it's horribly slow again!  My uptime at that point was 9 minutes.


SYSTEM: Dell XPS M1530
GPU: GeForce 8600M GT

---

### Post by marios_geo on 2010-07-22
I have exactly the same problem on opensuse 11.3 and nvidia 256.
With previous i did not had this problem.

---

