---
title: "what driver is powering my tablet"
date: 2008-10-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-10-23
>Please skip to the 3rd page 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=956480&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=956480&page=3)


I recently installed ubuntu Hardy 8.04 in attemt to setup a little opensource design studio. 
everything works well(apart from the ide/sata issue and the wrong default network driver), infact even my tablet works without any setup or driver 
install however the tablet is not correctly setup i have tried using the wizardpen driver from the ubuntu wiki Hardy8.04
however for some reason because the tablet already "works"(sort of)  
the wizardpen driver has no effect \
i have tried removing any and all tablet .lo files on my sytem 
also removed xserver-xorg-input-all
and all the wacom support stuff as well 
im trying to break the tablet so i can fix it again with the correct driver
that was the same process i had to do to get the network driver working 
at this point i have reinstalle hardy again and started picking away at whatever tablet stuff there is on the file system and synaptic

---

### Post by Dougie187 on 2008-10-23
You can look in /etc/X11/xorg.conf to find out what driver is running your tablet.

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-10-23
thanks but because i am starting over i havnt set up X yet 
my xorg.conf has no tablet input but the tablet works

---

### Post by Dougie187 on 2008-10-23
can you post the contents of xorg.cong?

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-10-23
> **Dougie187 said:**
> can you post the contents of xorg.cong?

sure but its the default it wont make a diff till i kill whots powering the tablet now


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection


I have tried for the past few days to setup wizardpen 
but im convinced that the tablet must not work before i install the driver


I have followed the wiki to a T 
5 times 
also when i set gimp to screen with the mouse it stops inking

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-10-23
Media Tablet
USB MFP
Flash Disk      
OHCI Host Controller
OHCI Host Controller
OHCI Host Controller
OHCI Host Controller
OHCI Host Controller
EHCI Host Controller

there it is but why?
what powers this thing if not wizard pen 
and can what powers it now be calibrated?

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-10-23
it seems my problem looks similar to this post 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5700712](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5700712)
thanks anyway

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-10-23
ok so i have figured out my problem 
i have look all over the place at many many posts and wiki docs
and put together all kinds of ways to see what is actually powering my tablet 
1. its not wizardpen thats for sure 
2. its not the wacom drivers i (looked at the ubuntu he;lp section and used  [sudo lsusb]  which gave me a code not compatible with their driver 
Bus 002 Device 004: ID 172f:0500
3. i tried aiptek put deff not

so whats powering it?
i looked under gimp>preferences>imput controllers and i found this 

WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet 
reading from /dev/input/event2
as i have said the tablet works i just need a way to calibrate it 
my problems are the same as in the link aboure this thread 
namely: 
> 
Tablet works, but pretty bad:
1. it seems that it is recognised by the system as a mouse rather than a tablet
2. i can not see it in GIMP
3. pressure signal is ignored
4. the cursor has a very limited area of movement not the whole screen.
5. the editing of xorg.conf reverts to the initial state after restarting the system.

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-11-03
so as suggested i installed a new version of ubuntu studio to see if my tablet would work correctly.
and no it does not, the surface is now perfectly mapped but none of the buttons function on the pen or the tablet so i have a working surface and no pen 
gimp also detects the tablet automatically   
what should i do?

---

### Post by mesilliac on 2008-11-03
Have you tried "lshal"? In Ubuntu 8.10 this should tell you what driver your tablet is using. If the product name (as reported by GIMP) contains WALTOP I think it's setup to use the wacom driver by default. I have no idea whether this is appropriate.

The HAL autoconfig settings that are used for this are at /usr/share/hal/fdi/policy/20thirdparty/10-wacom.fdi

However if your tablet is just acting like a mouse, it could be using the generic HID driver. So you would **not** need to disable this before getting the correct driver working.

[http://digitalbluewave.blogspot.com/2008/10/genius-wizardpen-with-intrepid-ibex.html](http://digitalbluewave.blogspot.com/2008/10/genius-wizardpen-with-intrepid-ibex.html) has some interesting information on writing a custom .fdi file which might be appropriate.

I don't know anything about this particular tablet, just saw this question in passing ;).

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-11-03
Thanks mesilliac that was a small bit of hope.
i tried "lshal" and "lshal | less" which gave me a lot of of info and followed the _Howto_from digital blue wave and my result where good, 
once i figured out the calibrate tool is resolution sensitive!!
i have set my monitor to highest resolution and now i have the a perfect surface working on the wizardpen driver 


so I added into 
"/etc/hal/fdi/policy/99-x11-wizardpen.fdi"

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1" ?>
<deviceinfo version="0.2">
<device>
<!-- This MUST match with the name of your tablet -->
<match key="info.product" contains="Media Tablet">
<merge key="input.x11_driver" type="string">wizardpen </merge>
<merge key="input.x11_options.SendCoreEvents" type="string">true </merge>
<merge key="input.x11_options.TopX" type="string">29 </merge>
<merge key="input.x11_options.TopY" type="string">145 </merge>
<merge key="input.x11_options.BottomX" type="string">16235 </merge>
<merge key="input.x11_options.BottomY" type="string">16277 </merge>
<merge key="input.x11_options.MaxX" type="string">16235 </merge>
<merge key="input.x11_options.MaxY" type="string">16277 </merge>
</match>
</device>
</deviceinfo>


I am going to try out xinput next because none of the buttons are working 
my tablet has a mouse wheel on both sides, and  34 buttons around the surface and the pen has 3 buttons 
i dont know if i will be able to configure that all in the terminal
"i think i might go terminal haha" 
maybe just the pen would be good to start 
how do i configure the buttons

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-11-03
.

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-11-03
none of my buttons work my tablet has a wheel like a mouse (you can press it and roll it) and my pen has 3 buttons but nothings picking it up
xmodmap -e "pointer = 1 2 3" ==DID NOTHING 
xinput set-buttonmap "Media Tablet" 0 1 2==DID NOTHING  
[B]
here is part of my xorg.0.log (if it helps)[/B]

(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input//evdev_drv.so
(II) Module evdev: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.5.2, module version = 2.0.99
	Module class: X.Org XInput Driver
	ABI class: X.Org XInput driver, version 2.1
(**) Macintosh mouse button emulation: always reports core events
(**) Macintosh mouse button emulation: Device: "/dev/input/event0"
(II) Macintosh mouse button emulation: Found x and y relative axes
(II) Macintosh mouse button emulation: Found 3 mouse buttons
(II) Macintosh mouse button emulation: Configuring as mouse
(II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "Macintosh mouse button emulation" (type: MOUSE)
(**) Macintosh mouse button emulation: YAxisMapping: buttons 4 and 5
(**) Macintosh mouse button emulation: EmulateWheelButton: 4, EmulateWheelInertia: 10, EmulateWheelTimeout: 200
(II) config/hal: Adding input device ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse
(**) ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse: always reports core events
(**) ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse: Device: "/dev/input/event6"
(II) ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse: Found x and y relative axes
(II) ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse: Found 3 mouse buttons
(II) ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse: Configuring as mouse
(II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse" (type: MOUSE)
(**) ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse: YAxisMapping: buttons 4 and 5
(**) ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse: EmulateWheelButton: 4, EmulateWheelInertia: 10, EmulateWheelTimeout: 200
(II) config/hal: Adding input device AT Translated Set 2 keyboard
(**) AT Translated Set 2 keyboard: always reports core events
(**) AT Translated Set 2 keyboard: Device: "/dev/input/event1"
(II) AT Translated Set 2 keyboard: Found keys
(II) AT Translated Set 2 keyboard: Configuring as keyboard
(II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "AT Translated Set 2 keyboard" (type: KEYBOARD)
(**) Option "xkb_rules" "evdev"
(**) AT Translated Set 2 keyboard: xkb_rules: "evdev"
(**) Option "xkb_model" "pc105"
(**) AT Translated Set 2 keyboard: xkb_model: "pc105"
(**) Option "xkb_layout" "us"
(**) AT Translated Set 2 keyboard: xkb_layout: "us"
[COLOR="Red"](II) config/hal: Adding input device WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet
(II) LoadModule: "wizardpen"

(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input//wizardpen_drv.so
(II) Module wizardpen: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.5.2, module version = 1.0.0
	Module class: X.Org XInput Driver
	ABI class: X.Org XInput driver, version 2.1
(**) WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet: TopX = 29
(**) WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet: TopY = 145
(**) WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet: BottomX = 16203
(**) WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet: BottomY = 16277
(**) Option "Device" "/dev/input/event2"
(--) Wizardpen Tablet MaxX:0 MaxY:0 MaxZ:0
(**) WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet is in absolute mode
(**) Option "SendCoreEvents" "true "
(**) WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet: always reports core events
(II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet" (type: WizardPen Tablet)
(II) WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet Increment: 1[/COLOR]
AUDIT: Mon Nov  3 23:53:18 2008: 5540 X: client 5 rejected from local host ( uid=0 gid=0 pid=5789 )
AUDIT: Mon Nov  3 23:56:59 2008: 5540 X: client 5 rejected from local host ( uid=1000 gid=1000 pid=5793 )
AUDIT: Mon Nov  3 23:56:59 2008: 5540 X: client 5 rejected from local host ( uid=1000 gid=1000 pid=5794 )
AUDIT: Mon Nov  3 23:56:59 2008: 5540 X: client 5 rejected from local host ( uid=1000 gid=1000 pid=5795 )



OOOoo..it feels like im soooooo close. d8b
i just need buttons?
is the tablet wheel maybe being recognized as a mouse or am i just getting over tired


:~$ xinput list
"Virtual core keyboard"	id=0	[XKeyboard]
	Num_keys is 248
	Min_keycode is 8
	Max_keycode is 255
"Virtual core pointer"	id=1	[XPointer]
	Num_buttons is 32
	Num_axes is 2
	Mode is Relative
	Motion_buffer is 256
	Axis 0 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 0
	Axis 1 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 0
"Macintosh mouse button emulation"	id=2	[XExtensionPointer][COLOR="Red"]mouse?[/COLOR]
	Num_buttons is 32
	Num_axes is 2
	Mode is Relative
	Motion_buffer is 256
	Axis 0 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
	Axis 1 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
"ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse"	id=3	[XExtensionPointer][COLOR="Red"]Tablet?[/COLOR]
	Num_buttons is 32
	Num_axes is 2
	Mode is Relative
	Motion_buffer is 256
	Axis 0 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
	Axis 1 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
"AT Translated Set 2 keyboard"	id=4	[XExtensionKeyboard]
	Num_keys is 248
	Min_keycode is 8
	Max_keycode is 255
"WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet"	id=5	[XExtensionPointer][COLOR="Red"][COLOR="Red"]pen?[/COLOR][/COLOR]
	Num_buttons is 3
	Num_axes is 3
	Mode is Absolute
	Motion_buffer is 256
	Axis 0 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is 1600
		Resolution is 1000
	Axis 1 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is 1200
		Resolution is 1000
	Axis 2 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is 1023
		Resolution is 1000

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-11-03
:~$ udevinfo -a -p `udevinfo -q path -n /dev/input/mouse1`

**revealed[B]**[/B]

  looking at device '/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:13.0/usb1/1-2/1-2:1.0/input/input2/mouse1':
    KERNEL=="mouse1"
    SUBSYSTEM=="input"
    DRIVER==""

  looking at parent device '/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:13.0/usb1/1-2/1-2:1.0/input/input2':
    KERNELS=="input2"
    SUBSYSTEMS=="input"
    DRIVERS==""
    ATTRS{name}=="WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet"
    ATTRS{phys}=="usb-0000:00:13.0-2/input0"
    ATTRS{uniq}==""
    ATTRS{modalias}=="input:b0003v172Fp0500e0110-e0,1,2,3,4,14,k71,72,73,77,7D,7E,7F,100,110,111,112,113,114,140,141,14A,14B,r0,1,6,8,a0,1,18,28,29,2A,2B,2C,2D,2E,2F,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,3A,3B,3C,m4,lsfw"

---

### Post by mesilliac on 2008-11-03
a) have you tried using the wacom driver in stead of the wizardpen driver?

b) xidump can tell you if your tablet is reporting correctly to X: ```
xidump "WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet"
```

c) it looks like the "resolution" of "axis 2" could be the problem. This is the pressure axis and on my (wacom) tablet, the resolution for this axis is "1". Button clicks might be below the click threshold due to the resolution somehow. Just a wild guess.

```

"WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet" id=5 [XExtensionPointer]pen?
Num_buttons is 3
Num_axes is 3
Mode is Absolute
Motion_buffer is 256
Axis 0 :
Min_value is 0
Max_value is 1600
Resolution is 1000
Axis 1 :
Min_value is 0
Max_value is 1200
Resolution is 1000
Axis 2 :
Min_value is 0
Max_value is 1023
Resolution is 1000    <--- should be 1?

```

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-11-04
> **mesilliac said:**
> a) have you tried using the wacom driver in stead of the wizardpen driver?

b) xidump can tell you if your tablet is reporting correctly to X: ```
xidump "WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet"
```

c) it looks like the "resolution" of "axis 2" could be the problem. This is the pressure axis and on my (wacom) tablet, the resolution for this axis is "1". Button clicks might be below the click threshold due to the resolution somehow. Just a wild guess.

I have removed the wacom driver because none of the buttons worked 
just the pen would freeze the cursor if i pressed down and dragged 
also wacomcpl was empty 

its funny because with hardy 8.04 all the buttons worked and the surface didn't without drivers (im guessing that was the wacom driver) 
should i remove the wizardpen fdi file? and go back to wacom tools 
maybe you would be able to help me more that way?

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-11-04
ok im back to square one wacom driver, 
cursor freezing when i press and drag.
surface is perfectly mapped. 

```
xindump

InputDevice: WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet
Valuators: Absolute   ID: Unreported  Serial Number: Unreported

             x-axis    y-axis   pressure   x-tilt    y-tilt     wheel
     data:
      min:  +00000    +00000    +00000    -00064    -00064    +00000
      max:  +16383    +16383    +01023    +00063    +00063    +01023
      res:  +01016    +01016    +00001    +00001    +00001    +00001


Proximity:
    Focus:
  Buttons:
     Keys:

;~$ xidump -l
Virtual core keyboard          keyboard
Virtual core pointer           disabled
Macintosh mouse button emulation extension
ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse     extension
AT Translated Set 2 keyboard   extension
WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet extension


```

none of my buttons are working including the pen 


```
:~$ xinput list
"Virtual core keyboard"	id=0	[XKeyboard]
	Num_keys is 248
	Min_keycode is 8
	Max_keycode is 255
"Virtual core pointer"	id=1	[XPointer]
	Num_buttons is 32
	Num_axes is 2
	Mode is Relative
	Motion_buffer is 256
	Axis 0 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 0
	Axis 1 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 0
"Macintosh mouse button emulation"	id=2	[XExtensionPointer]
	Num_buttons is 32
	Num_axes is 2
	Mode is Relative
	Motion_buffer is 256
	Axis 0 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
	Axis 1 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
"ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse"	id=3	[XExtensionPointer]
	Num_buttons is 32
	Num_axes is 2
	Mode is Relative
	Motion_buffer is 256
	Axis 0 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
	Axis 1 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
"AT Translated Set 2 keyboard"	id=4	[XExtensionKeyboard]
	Num_keys is 248
	Min_keycode is 8
	Max_keycode is 255
"WALTOP International Corp. Media Tablet"	id=5	[COLOR="Red"][XExtensionKeyboard][/COLOR]this worries me.
	Num_keys is 248
	Min_keycode is 8
	Max_keycode is 255
	Num_buttons is 7
	Num_axes is 6
	Mode is Absolute
	Motion_buffer is 256
	Axis 0 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is 16383
		Resolution is 1016
	Axis 1 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is 16383
		Resolution is 1016
	Axis 2 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is 1023
		Resolution is 1
	Axis 3 :
		Min_value is -64
		Max_value is 63
		Resolution is 1
	Axis 4 :
		Min_value is -64
		Max_value is 63
		Resolution is 1
	Axis 5 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is 1023
		Resolution is 1

```

---

### Post by mesilliac on 2008-11-04
that problem with it freezing when you click is fixed with the latest linuxwacom drivers (0.8.1-6), which sadly aren't in intrepid yet... You can install them by hand from [http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net/](http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net/)

To get the extra buttons etc working I think you'll need to edit your xorg.conf as detailed at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom)

I don't know the exact sections you'll have to put in, but there's a link on that page to the generic settings which should come close to working. You can find details of the xorg.conf options for the wacom driver at ummmm

[http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net/index.php/howto/inputdev](http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net/index.php/howto/inputdev)

:)

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-11-04
> **mesilliac said:**
> that problem with it freezing when you click is fixed with the latest linuxwacom drivers (0.8.1-6), which sadly aren't in intrepid yet... You can install them by hand from [http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net/](http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net/)

To get the extra buttons etc working I think you'll need to edit your xorg.conf as detailed at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom)

I don't know the exact sections you'll have to put in, but there's a link on that page to the generic settings which should come close to working. You can find details of the xorg.conf options for the wacom driver at ummmm

[http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net/index.php/howto/inputdev](http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net/index.php/howto/inputdev)

:)


awsome brova 
im gonna remove the old and try the new i was a bit worried about the wacom driver picking up my tablet as a keyboard? and mimicked a mouse so i guess the mouse buttons where conflicting (i tried wizardpen again)
i was in the middle of trying to edit .../udev/010_local.rules but it did not exist on my system 

i am going to delete the fdi file for wizardpen and try the new wacom driver 
ace kiwi 
thanks

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-11-04
i think my clumsy fooling around has done irreparable damage to my OS im going to start a re-install

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-11-05
I have reverted back to hardy heron 8.04
after a few days of messing with the wacom driver i learned a few things  so i gave up, reinstalled hardy, and retried using the "wizardpen driver"... 
Bingo it works like a dream all buttens etc  
only problem is pressure.
in gimp i went to configure input devices and set the tablet to screen 
and put the pressure as option 1 (x-axis) apposed to 3 (pressure)
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/picture.php?albumid=679&pictureid=2250[/IMG]
this moved the brush(the round thing not cursor) on the x axis so the pressure works!!!
BUT there is no ink coming out(in screen mode) only when i am in disabled mode does the pen/mouse write with no pressure 
it also effects my mouse if i set the tablet to screen, 
my tablets buttons are emulated by the mouse as well 
(macintosh mouse button emulator)
(ImPS2 compatible mouse) is my actual mouse

---

### Post by mesilliac on 2008-11-06
It sounds like a "click" event isn't being generated, even though the pressure is being reported correctly... but if it otherwise works for clicking things that's a bit strange.

Your best bet would to be ask the makers of the wizardpen driver about it, there might be a driver option you can change to handle it (I know with the wacom driver you can modify the click threshold, which I've done to get finer sensitivity in GIMP).

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-11-07
> **mesilliac said:**
> It sounds like a "click" event isn't being generated, even though the pressure is being reported correctly... but if it otherwise works for clicking things that's a bit strange.

Your best bet would to be ask the makers of the wizardpen driver about it, there might be a driver option you can change to handle it (I know with the wacom driver you can modify the click threshold, which I've done to get finer sensitivity in GIMP).

thanks dude ill check sourceforge

---

### Post by Arthur Millar on 2008-12-14
> **mesilliac said:**
> It sounds like a "click" event isn't being generated, even though the pressure is being reported correctly... but if it otherwise works for clicking things that's a bit strange.

Your best bet would to be ask the makers of the wizardpen driver about it, there might be a driver option you can change to handle it (I know with the wacom driver you can modify the click threshold, which I've done to get finer sensitivity in GIMP).

ok so after a long break i stumbledapon one of your posts about the wacom 8.1.6 update 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=967147](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=967147)
this fixed my sticky cursor problem 
and restored my pressure, all my buttons work except the RMB on the pen(its acting like a LMB)
when i apply screen mode to input devices in either GIMP or INKSCAPE my mouse function is disabled 
this would be ok if i had the RMB on the pen 
i hope you can see my dilemma

---

