---
title: "hypothetically speaking?"
date: 2009-05-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Zom-b on 2009-05-30
if I change my xorg.conf file to
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"&#65279;fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"fglrx"
EndSection

```
after installing the ati drivers and ati catalyst, 
am I going to have problems?

---

### Post by Zom-b on 2009-05-30
I just want to get the ati card in my laptop working and make everything a bit smoother, because I have seen people running lower specs on their laptops and computers than I am and everything seems much smoother and responsive than my setup..

---

### Post by Zom-b on 2009-05-30
btw this is the ATi card i have

ATI Technologies Inc RS300M AGP [Radeon Mobility 9100IGP]

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-05-30
If you quite answering your own posts, you may get help a little quicker. If you have something to add just edit your origional post. Answering your own posts makes it look like you are getting help with solving your problem.

---

### Post by Zom-b on 2009-05-30
ahh, sorry about that, thanks for the advice.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2009-05-30
That sounds like an older video card, which is not likely to be supported by the fglrx restricted drivers.  How much improvement are you looking for?  If you need more responsiveness from your card, you should disable Compiz which can be a bit of a resource hog.  To see the difference in frame rates, run
```
glxgears
```
with compiz on, then again with compiz disabled.

---

### Post by Zom-b on 2009-05-30
well I'm just looking for improvement in some of the games I play, like when I play nexuiz, I have to have it at the absolute lowest settings to play, unless I log into the failsafe terminal, then it runs alright, on lower settings, but all the players are "invisible" a bunch of floating guns and whatnot, it makes it hard to play for too long, so I was thinking that if I got the newer drivers it might improve it a bit, but it doesn't it just garbles my screen,

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2009-05-31
Yeah, you need to go uninstall the restricted drivers since your card most likely does not support them.  The best you will be able to do is use the open source radeon drivers and disable compiz.  You won't get great performance, but it should be playable.

---

