---
title: "9.04 won't load from disc..."
date: 2009-05-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mrpinchy on 2009-05-21
Hi All,
 
I had some issues with downloading Ubuntu, which seem to be resolved.  
 
I got 8.04 to load from a DVD I downloaded.  I had to restart the computer with the disc in the drive.  When I did, 8.04 loaded ,but my disc drive and wifi were non functional (disc drive would not open).  I got the disc out eventually.  
 
I decided to download 9.04 and see if it would work better.  I got it on a DVD and I can't even get it to load.  I put the disc in and try to restart the computer the same as I did with 8.04, and I get nothing.  I get the boot-menu at start-up and select it to start off the DVD-ROM and it started Windows.  The computer knows there is info on the disc, but I can't get a single program to read the information on the disc.
 
I looked into Wubi, and it said it would load as a VM (vitual machine).  I tried it, to see & it wanted to put 17gigs of I'm not sure what on my HD in the same partition as Windows.  I said HELL NO. (nothing against Linux)  I don't normally put this much effort into trying to figure this type of stuff out 
 
Any thoughts?
Thanks,
Joe.

---

### Post by PookeyMaster on 2009-05-21
How much free space do you have on your HDD? Wubi Ubuntu will create a VM using as much free available space as it can, up to 30 GB I think. I personally change it down to about 10 GB. You must give it at least 3 GB for the OS but you won't have any room for files and programs then...So the extra 14 GB it is showing you is free space it will set aside in the VM for your documents and programs, etc.

If you can, test the MD5 Hash for the disk against the list [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes"). If it is not the same, re-download the iso for Ubuntu; there is probably an error in the image.

---

### Post by mprince on 2009-05-21
[QUOTE=mrpinchy]When I did, 8.04 loaded ,but my disc drive and wifi were non functional (disc drive would not open)[/QUOTE]

The CD/DVD-ROM stays closed when running as a LiveCD session. This is the expected behaviour. It will open the drive tray when you reboot.

---

### Post by mrpinchy on 2009-05-21
Hey,
 
So Wubi trying to claim 17gb of space is normal?  I have 177gb available so I wont miss 17gb
 
Now your saying that Wubi is putting a VM on my HD?  It is not trying to erase & replace Windows?
 
You said MD5 Hash.  The only hash I know is for breakfast.  I cannot get the disc to load, so I don't think I will be able to check the hash.
 
Thanks,
Joe.

---

### Post by PookeyMaster on 2009-05-21
Search google for 'MD5 Hash for Windows' and download a tool that lets you check a files hash. Then compare what you get to what's on the site I listed.

You can tell Wubi to allocate anywhere from 3 GB to 30 GB (or more). As I said, the more you give it, the more you can install, etc. You could also stick extra documents on the Windows section of the drive and open them from there (Ubuntu can access the NTFS Windows drive if you want to). It will add a line to your boot.ini file (Hidden File in C:\) which tells your PC when it loads that there are two operating systems. When you select Ubuntu, it loads the VM 'file' in Windows and Ubuntu loads.

---

