---
title: "10.04 Server Disabled, or my network settings bad?"
date: 2013-05-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GreatGreyShrike on 2013-05-07
Alright, I was just wondering about the following situation: Does the end of support for 10.04 mean that the system for downloading packages, programs, etc. from repositories for 10.04 is shut down as well? In particular, the version of Ubuntu I am running tries to connect to 131.136.250.12 to download updates etc, and completely fails to do so. I was recently changing my internet connection, however, so it could be something like it trying to access the server through the wrong gateway. If that is the case, can I adjust how apt-get and related services attempt to access the Internet?

Thank you for any help or insight you can offer.

SOLVED: problem was caused by an erroneous entry in /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/proxy - a remnant of the previous Internet connection that I recently changed as mentioned above. Removing this entry for the connection to the Internet I am on solved the problem admirably.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-05-07
As far as I know, once support ceases for a version, its repository is moved from current site into archives, either immediately or shortly thereafter. Since 10.04 has been retired in the last few days, I would not be surprised if this has happened to it as well. It is not at all a good idea to keep running an obsolete version as you will leave yourself open to security flaws with every passing day. If you are running older HW that doesn't run well on the newer OSes, there are other alternatives that members here are happy to recommend or help you with.

If you insist on running the older version, you will have to redirect your software sources to the archives.

---

### Post by GreatGreyShrike on 2013-05-07
I have just checked with another computer and network connection; it is apparantly something in my network configuration that is at fault, as the other computer "sees" the servers and can download from them sucessfully. I checked my sources.list file and they seem to be normal; something seems to go wrong between there and when it resolves the DNS request as far as I can tell. Again, any advice would be appreciated. 

Upgrading distros would likely break certain software/hardware stuff on another machine, and I can't get permission to do that, regrettably.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-05-07
Let's try pinging the site on your sources.list file. If you use a mirror, then this is a potential problem point. Does the other computer use exactly the same mirror?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-05-07
10.04 LTS desktop has reached end of life, yes, but you're asking about a server install. Do you have the server version installed because if so that is supported for five years (April 2015) in which case you are having issues with your connection or something else and not the repos.

---

### Post by GreatGreyShrike on 2013-05-07
Thanks for the thought guys, I managed to fix things - I edited it in a bit above, it was a problem with /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/proxy file that was erroneously there due to internet change mentioned in my original post. Thanks anyways for all the help and suggestions.

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-05-07
Hi GreatGreyShrike, and all.

Just wanted to point out that at the writing of this message:
```
$ date; date --utc
Tue May  7 20:20:52 CDT 2013
Wed May  8 01:20:52 UTC 2013

```
10.04 has not just quite expired. The official date is Thursday, May 9th (UTC I presume).

Note that the server version will continue to have support and updates until April 2015. [Here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes") are some tips on how to upgrade.

Regards.

BTW, I just received upgrades this morning on one 10.04 Desktop that I still have.

---

