---
title: "Problem with cron jobs"
date: 2009-03-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jsdegard on 2009-03-13
Hello,

I'm a first time poster.  I installed Ubuntu 8.04 back in June.  Things have been going great until I tried to find a way to run a php script daily.  I found I could use cron. but being a newbie to cron I think I mucked it up, because now my daily mysql backups are not enabled, and it will not let me enable them (in Webmin).  I get the error message:

/usr/bin/crontab: 1: 0: not found

# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE - edit the master and reinstall.
# (/etc/cron.hourly/arisumyr.txt installed on Tue Mar  3 08:31:55 2009)
# (Cron version -- $Id: crontab.c,v 2.13 1994/01/17 03:20:37 vixie Exp $)
10 * * * * wget -O /dev/null 192.168.30.30/runarisumyr.php

0 0 * * * /etc/webmin/mysql/backup.pl --all

The /usr/bin/crontab file is there but I had messed with it not realizing the unwanted effects.  The rest of the error shows the installation of the script to run my php page, and I think the last line is the command that will backup the mysql databases.  Can this be fixed somehow?  Any help is greatly appreciated.

Thanks

Jeremy

---

### Post by davmac on 2009-03-14
How did you edit the crontab file? Just a "normal" edit? I think this might be the problem.

I open up a terminal window and type "crontab -e". Make the changes and Ctrl-O and Ctrl-X, it then installs the changed crontab file.

Hope this helps,

Dave Mac

---

### Post by jsdegard on 2009-03-22
Yo, thanks.  You are right.  I've found typing right into the file causes a break if I do yhings like type a 'backspace' and other quitky things.  I'm going to retain your suggestion for future reference as well as use the Webmin cron module, as it does not appear to muck things up either.  Thanks for helping the new guy.

Jeremy

---

### Post by davmac on 2009-03-22
Glad that sorted it. Glad to help and am only passing on the help I received when I was starting out and tried the same thing.

Regards,

Dave Mac

---

