---
title: "12.04  e-mail services?"
date: 2013-03-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-03-07
hi, sorry for my dumb question :) .

i just fell in love with ubuntu and i gladly scrap microsoft.
i even will buy stuff in the store lol...

tho, microsoft do offer an e-mail service with hotmail, do Ubuntu offer similar services or not ?

i would like to set up and tranfer all my e-mail to a new e-mail wich would be link and manage by Ubuntu.

seem i just cannot find any ?

as well, trying to buy stuff on ubuntu store it ask a launchpad account, so before doing it, if i could just start with a ubuntu email i would gladly do all this stuff together.

ty

---

### Post by gifford on 2013-03-07
No, Ubuntu does not offer an email service like hotmail. However, thunderbird (default email program for 12.04) mail does allow you to manage different types of email accounts. You can set up your email account with your ISP or other pop3,  as well as Google mail Imap accounts. I believe it can also be used to handle hotmail accounts although it may take some work.

Welcome to Ubuntu.

---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-03-07
k ty

sad tho not email from ubuntu :(

guess i will try thunderbird.

but is thunderbird a e-mail service like hotmail or it just manage different email account ?

ty

---

### Post by ubudog on 2013-03-07
> **MontrealCorp said:**
> k ty

sad tho not email from ubuntu :(

guess i will try thunderbird.

but is thunderbird a e-mail service like hotmail or it just manage different email account ?

ty

Hi MontrealCorp, welcome to Ubuntu!

Thunderbird is an email client, so it manages your email accounts.  If you still have a Hotmail account, Thunderbird can be configured to use it, as seen [here]("https://support.mozillamessaging.com/en-US/kb/thunderbird-and-hotmail").

---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-03-08
K ty

1 last thing , when thunerbird aske me if i want new email seem it cost like 20$ per years ??? With some partnership sites .

So like u said , it only for managing my already existent email , tho i need to create a new one .

but when u use thunderbird it means its kinda like incorporated in your ubuntu OS or it is online ?
i mean , if i install ubuntu on a new machine or if i reformat or whatever, if i configure my emails , ill have to redo it on my machine ?
 Or even if i erase my computer , there some kinda of database online somewhere that kept the info about my emails and even by reformating machine those configuration is not erase , so illl i need is reinstalled ubuntu and i would be set ?


ty

hope what im asking makes sense ?

ps: when i try buy something u untu store online i need go trough launchpad  ,  openID tech.
so i just enter my usual email tho it ask me to create another account ... So i sm kinda lost if its another managing email services or what ?

ty again

---

### Post by ubudog on 2013-03-08
Thunderbird is completely free software, you don't need to pay anything.  You should be able to just set it up with Hotmail and be ready to go.

Thunderbird should be incorporated into the OS, for instance when you receive a new email it should notify you with a small popup (like when you connect to a wireless network).

If you ever re-install or format your harddrive, you can just backup your .thunderbird in your home directory (IIRC) and replace it on the new install.

For purchasing from the Ubuntu Software Centre, I do believe you will need to create an Ubuntu Single Sign On account.  You can create one when buying the item in the store.

Hope that answers your questions,
ubudog

---

