---
title: "9.10 while install authentication error/conf server error 256"
date: 2010-01-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by crowdedelevator on 2010-01-07
i had a duel boot of windows xp, and ubuntu 9.04 in that order on the harddrive.
i erased windows and had a family member get my partitions to where they needed to be for a install of 9.109 from what he said.)
so i have been told to set up like this

sda1: Ext4, format, mount as /
sda2:Ext4, no format because my old files are on this partition, and mount as /home
swap

but... 

halfway through my install i get :

authentication error

authentication error

authentication error


the day before, i was having an .ICEauthority error, and something about sanity-check-2 ended with status 256( and the answer i got was to not use auto login)

i was also told to do a fresh install from the live cd but i waited until morning to do so. 
i woke up headed to the laptop, and attempted.

half way through it stopped, went to the login screen and said
it was logging in as administrator or something strange, that wasnt me, and that there was an authentication error. so i couldnt even log in as a guest session.

i went on craiglist looking for help, as i couldnt get any here, and some emailed and said they want pay for answering a few questions. i pleeded, but the only answer i got was that it was a bug.
that didnt help.
well, i just reinstalled, to get the screen to come up, and it went though.... now my issue is :

there is a problem updating configuration server.
(/usr/lib/libgconf2-4/gconf-sanity-check-2 exited with status 256)

---

### Post by crowdedelevator on 2010-01-07
i get the feeling that im the only one with this issue. i look over and over and over at pages and pagees of this error and none relate to mine, and NOT A SINGLE PERSON who has looked wants to input help. how useful are these so called "amazing forums"?
ive had problem after problem and every post i make, there is no answer and im getting tired of wasted time looking this stressful situation up. some of the staff have full messages, which is somewhat understandable, but to the point that the inbox is full, i dont understand.
not to be rude, but im sure you know how to erase them, so people may contact you.
sorry if i seem rude... im just frustrated. ive been at this for DAYS and no answers, and im new to command lines and trying to understand , but if someone out there has delt with this, and just looks at it yet knows something that may work PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE HELP!

i have files i need on my second partition and feel very helpless.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-01-07
Are you sure that your data under Ubuntu 8.04 was stored on an EXT4 partition?  It seems unlikely.

---

### Post by crowdedelevator on 2010-01-07
he formatted it to something like txd or something, i cant recall. it was thanksgiving when it happened so that was over a month ago. he said hed burn me 9.10 and never did so i burnt it myself. i asked what my partition should be , and he said tht it was to be 
sda1 ext4, format, /
sda2 ext4 no formatting. /home
swap
but i got this.
after the error, i click the close option and i get either a black screen, or a snow screen thats instead of black and white, its neon pink and green.
i hit my restart switch on my laptop, and it brings up a window of options :
shut down computer
restart
suspend
hibernate
but nothing else on screen

---

### Post by crowdedelevator on 2010-01-07
am i a moron or something?

---

### Post by Methuselah on 2010-01-07
Check your CD for defects (there is an option on the menu before the live environment loads).
And if you have the .iso from which it was burned, verify the md5sum.
The value that the md5sum should be is at the download location I think.
Also, you should not be using a pre-release disc; make sure you are using one from the official 9.10 release.

You are having too many issues with a fresh install that don't sound typical to me.
Something else must be wrong, IMO.

---

### Post by crowdedelevator on 2010-01-07
> **Methuselah said:**
> Check your CD for defects (there is an option on the menu before the live environment loads).
And if you have the .iso from which it was burned, verify the md5sum.
The value that the md5sum should be is at the download location I think.
Also, you should not be using a pre-release disc; make sure you are using one from the official 9.10 release.

You are having too many issues with a fresh install that don't sound typical to me.
Something else must be wrong, IMO.


checked  the disc. cant check the md5sum. but i got the disc from ubuntu.com so it should be the right one. just did it a few days ago.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-01-07
If you boot the LiveCD, I think it has a program called gparted, which will display your drive partitions, including their formats.

---

### Post by crowdedelevator on 2010-01-08
> **gordintoronto said:**
> If you boot the LiveCD, I think it has a program called gparted, which will display your drive partitions, including their formats.

I have gparted in front of me as I post. /dev/sda1 -ext4-11.56GiB-2.18GiB used-flags: boot  /dev/sda2-ext4-24.70 GiB-11.79 GiB used- no flag  /dev/sda3(key symbol)-linuxswap-1.00 GiB    What's wrong with my system?looks good to me.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-01-08
Your partitions look good!  I can't figure out where the problem lies.

---

### Post by crowdedelevator on 2010-01-08
> **gordintoronto said:**
> Your partitions look good!  I can't figure out where the problem lies.

Can you tell me how to make them jaunty usable? I loved jaunty, I have the alternative disc, and live disc, but the guy said they won't work because they aren't ext3. I just want a working laptop. I haven't since thanksgiving, and im not thankful for it. But once it works, ill be thankful to you..... he uses arch himself and it looks amazing, but I have a crappy compaq n600c laptop, and im thinking its the hardware.  I had a ubuntu cd sent to my house but it won't be here for a while I don't think.

---

### Post by crowdedelevator on 2010-01-09
Still can't find a way around it. The guy who set my partitions up for the install doesn't even know what's wrong, and I've found nothing but dead ends on google

---

### Post by crowdedelevator on 2010-01-09
The guy who set it up fixed it, but my graphics driver is screwed. How do I fix that? He told me it was screwed but was rushed out by his wife. Anyways, I am inknowledgeable when it comes to this

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-01-09
> **crowdedelevator said:**
> Can you tell me how to make them jaunty usable? I loved jaunty, I have the alternative disc, and live disc, but the guy said they won't work because they aren't ext3. I just want a working laptop. I haven't since thanksgiving, and im not thankful for it. But once it works, ill be thankful to you..... he uses arch himself and it looks amazing, but I have a crappy compaq n600c laptop, and im thinking its the hardware.  I had a ubuntu cd sent to my house but it won't be here for a while I don't think.

You could specify EXT3 and format all partitions.

I don't know what to do about a messed up video driver.

How much memory in your machine?  Regular Ubuntu won't install with 256 MB, I think the alt disc will.

---

### Post by crowdedelevator on 2010-01-11
He said it was that a few files were missing, so he made them, and that aptitude was ignoring them. So he said I need to boot in recovery, hit cont.alt.f2 and put in sudo aptitude, and update it.  Haven't been able to, my new internet comes on tuesday.  And unfourtunatly, im running a compaq n600c, so its at just 256

---

