---
title: "11.04 kde4 won't start, goes back to sign-on"
date: 2011-08-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by blatzer on 2011-08-27
kubuntu 11.04 32-bit
kde4 starts to load (just one of the five boxes) then goes back to sign-on screen.
I can sign-on to console with recovery mode, then using startx I get to same place on kde4 and it freezes.
This is a  new installation I have never been able to sign on.
Help appreciated.

---

### Post by taseedorf on 2011-08-27
Are you able to get into X and then go check the log files?

System, administration, log file viewer?

---

### Post by blatzer on 2011-08-27
Thanks for the reply.
No I cannot do anything in kde4.
kde4 starts to load - just the first of the five "boxes" that you start with kde4 appears then screen returns to the logon.

Since submitting the question I installed ubuntu 11.04 in another partition and can sign on there. I would prefer kubuntu since it has kde.

---

### Post by Dummy46032 on 2011-08-28
> **blatzer said:**
> kubuntu 11.04 32-bit
kde4 starts to load (just one of the five boxes) then goes back to sign-on screen.
I can sign-on to console with recovery mode, then using startx I get to same place on kde4 and it freezes.
This is a  new installation I have never been able to sign on.
Help appreciated.

I have the same problem, it seems to be on all KDE distros.  Very frustrating... the system works when I use the live CD but when I install it it hangs just as you described.

VIA/S3 UniChrome IGP adaptor 
AMD processor
HP Pavillian Desktop

---

