---
title: "./configure not working"
date: 2010-07-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Curse on 2010-07-05
Trying to install a .tar.bz and in the instructions it says to use ./configure

I do that after 'cd'ing to the directory that I extracted everything to and get this: (please forgive my fingers moving too quickly and not finding the ~ key the first time -.-)

[img]http://i170.photobucket.com/albums/u279/Andrelommech/Configure.png[/img]

I'm running Ubuntu 10.04

Help? :/

---

### Post by d3v1150m471c on 2010-07-05
dude, soundconverter is in the repositories.
```

 sudo apt-get install soundconverter

```

many things for linux, namely ubuntu, are already in the repositories if they're worth their salt. They also have .deb packages as well, which is probably what you should use instead of tarballs if it can be avoided. Debs are annotated in your system so a simple apt-get remove program will
uninstall it. A lot of tarballs that have outlived their use on your system leave crap behind because you can't uninstall it with any ease. So...check the repositories or use a deb unless you know what you're doing. It'll save you some grief in the future ;)

---

### Post by Curse on 2010-07-05
> **d3v1150m471c said:**
> dude, soundconverter is in the repositories.
```

 sudo apt-get install soundconverter

```

I tried that, but after dling and installing it, once it starts converting files the program just closes out after about 20 seconds.

---

### Post by dearingj on 2010-07-05
> **Curse said:**
> Trying to install a .tar.bz and in the instructions it says to use ./configure

I do that after 'cd'ing to the directory that I extracted everything to and get this:
<snip>


Bash does that when a file doesn't have the necessary execute permissions. Try this after 'cd'ing into the directory:
```
chmod u+x ./configure
```

Then you should be able to run ./configure.

---

### Post by d3v1150m471c on 2010-07-05
also you were using cd inappropriately...

your code:
```

cd /downloads/soundconverter

```

correct code needs the alias "~" before the directory path because "Downloads" is in your home folder. ~ is the native alias for /home/$USER/ or $HOME. so...

```

cd ~/Downloads/soundconverter

```

you should also make sure the extracted folder isn't just the program name and not something like
"soundconverter_1_5_7" because it's fairly standard packaging to add the 3 digit version numbers to the end like so.

---

### Post by Curse on 2010-07-05
> **dearingj said:**
> Bash does that when a file doesn't have the necessary execute permissions. Try this after 'cd'ing into the directory:
```
chmod u+x ./configure
```

Then you should be able to run ./configure.

"No such file or directory" upon trying what you posted :/


To the poster above, I forgot to add the ~ the first time :x
I made the soundconverter file 



EDIT: Nevermind, I fail at extracting -.- .... thread solved.... *ugh*

---

### Post by d3v1150m471c on 2010-07-05
if soundconverter closes out on you my suggestion would be to use something like ffmpeg. is it possible that soundconverter closing out is a hardware issue. make sure your system can handle it because converting media files is often processor consuming.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2010-07-05
Curse, can you post the output of ```
ls ~/Downloads/soundconverter
```

---

