---
title: "Screen resolution is not available"
date: 2009-09-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Fixitall on 2009-09-16
Hi all,

After quite some effort and time I finally decided to put my problem on this forum, hoping someone can help me. Despite a lot of useful threads I have not been able to solve my resolution problem.

What am I trying to do:
I am trying to set up a Linux system for the first time, the HW and SW I am using:
- Dell D600 laptop
- Dell port replicator
- iiyama Prolite E2208HDS LCD monitor
- Ubuntu 9.04 - the Jaunty Jackalope - released in April 2009

What is the problem:
After connecting my hardware, I have not been able to run with the correct resolution on my LCD monitor. Via system\preferences\display, I only have a few options that I can choose from and all of them are 4:3 ratio. My monitor is 16:9. The monitor and LCD of the laptop are both recognized though.

What did I try to do:
After reading some threads I started to focus on the xorg.conf file and tried to add a modeline. That was not that easy because I didn't have the right information. This is what I did:

- hooked up another laptop with XP as an operating system. Downloaded drivers for the iiyama and set the resolution to 1920 x 1080.

- installed a windows program called PowerStrip. Used the directions in the following thread to create a linux modeline as a text file.
[http://www.x.org/wiki/FAQVideoModes](http://www.x.org/wiki/FAQVideoModes)

- The I edited the xorg.conf file using the information in the following thread.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-119573.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-119573.html)

The xorg.conf file now looks like:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
        VendorName      "iiyama"
        ModelName       "E2208HDS"
        Option          "DPMS"
        ModeLine        "1920x1080" 148.800 1920 2008 2052 2200 1080 1084 1089 1125 +hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

The modeline is what PowerStrip saved for me, the other information about the monitor I edited myself. The DPMS function is related to powersaving so I thought, why not.

However, after reboot still no luck. The resolution in the modeline is not chosen and also not displayed in the display preferences.

Anyone?

---

### Post by mapes12 on 2009-09-16
In Terminal ```
sudo lshw -C display
```and post the output back here.

---

### Post by Fixitall on 2009-09-16
Hi mapes,

This is what comes up when my laptop is docked and the iiyama connected via the DVI port:

[sudo] password for peter: 
  *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: Radeon RV250 [Mobility FireGL 9000]
       vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: 02
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: agp agp-2.0 pm bus_master vga_palette cap_list
       configuration: latency=32 mingnt=8

Hope this is helpful

---

### Post by mapes12 on 2009-09-16
[https://help.ubuntu.com/search.html?cof=FORID%3A9&cx=003883529982892832976%3Ae2vwumte3fq&ie=UTF-8&q=ati&sa=Search](https://help.ubuntu.com/search.html?cof=FORID%3A9&cx=003883529982892832976%3Ae2vwumte3fq&ie=UTF-8&q=ati&sa=Search)

---

### Post by Fixitall on 2009-09-16
Ok, I did my best but not quite the result I wanted.

What did I do......

- Went to the driver links from mapes (thanks)
- lot of helpful information and if I understood everything right I need the open source ATI driver. According to the guide my card is supported:
**Full 3D support (r100 and r200 series)**

   All these cards and derivatives have full 3D acceleration support 
 
 7000 / rv100 based cards
7200 / R100 based cards
7500 / rv200 based cards
8X00 / R200 based cards
9000 / rv250 based cards (my card)
9100 / R200 based cards
9200 / rv280 based cards

The proprietary fglrx driver will not support my card (too old) and I made sure it is not installed (system \administration \hardware drivers)
Actually, there are no drivers at all displayed.

Then I check the bus ID. It is:
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon RV250 [Mobility FireGL 9000] [1002:4c66] (rev 02)

Then I update the device section and the screen section in xorg.conf. I now looks like this:

#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	VendorName      "iiyama"
	ModelName       "E2208HDS"
	Option          "DPMS"
	ModeLine        "1920x1080" 148.800 1920 2008 2052 2200 1080 1084 1089 1125 +hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Radeon RV250"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Radeon RV250"
        Driver          "ati"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
EndSection

Reboot and went to display preferences.

When my laptop screen is on and the iiyama is on and I mirror the screens I have just 3 4:3 resolutions, same for both screens.
When I turn of the laptop screen I suddenly have a lot of options.

The resolution 1920 x 1080 is the only 16:9
when I choose it my screen looks snowy, although you can see the desktop.

Going to some 16:10 resolutions gives a lot better result.

So now I am confused:
- Why does the resolution from the manual not work
- How should I manage the 2 screens. When I am docked I don't have my laptop open.

Any advise is appreciated.

---

### Post by staccato123 on 2009-11-18
I found that this monitor does autodetect the correct resolution and aspect ratio as long as the Virtual Screen size in xorg.conf is set correctly; Try this stanza:

```
Section "Screen"
   Identifier  "Default Screen"
   Monitor     "Configured Monitor"
   Device      "Configured Video Device"
   SubSection "Display"
      Virtual  3200 1080
   EndSubSection
EndSection
```

It will set it automatically as long as the height is sufficient, although you will need to logout and log back in again to restart X.

---

