---
title: "8.1 won't install from live cd (burned 3 discs so far!)"
date: 2009-02-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by chasinspace on 2009-02-16
O.K. I'll start at the begining. Three machines in the house: 2 desktops (1 WIN.XP, 1WIN 98 ) and one mac powerbook G4 OSX 10.3.9. Trying to install Ubuntu on the Win 98 machine. downloaded Ibex on the mac and burned it to a disc. loaded it from the disc to the Win XP machine where the hash was verified - no data corruption. Used Nero (on the XP machine) to burn the disc image to another cd (at 8x). When I put this disc(#1) in the WIn. 98 machine it faiiled the verification process. Second attempt - Used the original .iso on the mac and OS X's Disc Utility app to burn (and verify) the disc image. This disc (#2), When loaded into the Win.98 machine passed the disc verification process but froze during the install (just after the  cave painting screen where I'm supposed to enter info. Back to the mac to make another disc(#3) same problem as disc #2.
 
any suggestions?  Could it be a platform issue ('cus I downloaded it on my mac, or 'cus I'm burning it on my mac)
I don't want to go through a whole stack of  cd's and keep having them fail.

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by davidsrsb on 2009-02-16
Unlikely to be a Mac issue, you say that the md5 sum was correct on the XP machine so it is Very unlikely to be a corrupt iso file.

Win 98 is old so I am guessing that the PC is also old. Is it a clone or a common brand machine?

---

### Post by chasinspace on 2009-02-16
I'm pretty sure it's one my father-in-law built a few years back. Yeah it's pretty old. It's got an Asus TUV 4X Socket 370 motherboard with the Apollo pro133T chipset. If that means anything to you. Oh yeah and a 48x BENQ CD burner that doesn't burn anymore, a 30 gig hard drive with 20gigs free. Any other info that might be useful?

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2009-02-16
Hi. RAM is an important factor here; you need at least 256 MB ([384 is recommended]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements")). If the machine has less than 256 MB, install using the [Alternate CD]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#alternate"), or Xubuntu.

---

### Post by chasinspace on 2009-02-16
Right. That sounds pretty reasonable. But it'l have to wait 'till tomorrow I've been at this for a good seven hours now and I've got to got to bed! thanks for the help. (probably should have asked sooner than I did). Will update after I try the Alternate CD. downloading now. G;night.

---

### Post by davidsrsb on 2009-02-16
Might be worth checking if the bios is as updated as possible on the TUV4X

There are a few reports of problems with this board
eg [http://ask.tj/message/ubuntu-bugs/54320](http://ask.tj/message/ubuntu-bugs/54320)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/90949](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/90949)
but that is not many so there is hope.

---

### Post by chasinspace on 2009-02-16
DAMN IT! Why can I never go to bed with a problem unsolved! As I was drifting off I remembered another machine that had a the power supply blown in an electrical storm. so I went and dug it out of the basement and low and behold it had just enough ram to get my Win 98 machine uo to the 256mb min. Hoorah! I'm now starring at the Prepare Partitions screen. Problem solved methinks.
RomeReactor, davidsrsb thank-you both Muchly for your prompt, insightful, and useful assistance. Intrepid Ibex Here I come!

---

