---
title: "12.10 DVD hangs"
date: 2012-10-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by DGINSD on 2012-10-24
I just downloaded the 12.10 release and booted it but I get a hang at the ubuntu logo with the scrolling dots. I rebooted it and removed the quiet splash and the last errors I see are something about amd microcode.bin not loading (I can get more detail if this is important). I've even tried re-downloading and re-burning the disc to no avail. 

For the record I've never had a problem with any of the live discs I've used on this machine (11.10, 12,04, Mint). My current 12.04 Mint and Windoz 7 installs all are functioning properly. 

Please help I'm totally stuck and would really like to check out the new deal.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-10-24
Have you tried booting with the nomodeset option enabled?

Press any key when you see the little man and keyboard, then press F6, and select nomodeset from the list, and continue booting.

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-24
Do you know what type of video card and wireless adapter you have?  What brand and model of PC?   Anywho - certain wireless adapters come up with a "firmware missing" or "firmware not found" or some such message and have interfered with booting.  I've seen this on the forum several times in the last 6 months or so about a particular type of Broadcom wireless card.  I'd have to go looking for one of the posts, but there is a way around it so you can at least boot.  Also, as Cariboo907 was eluding to, certain video cards sometimes require some special steps to boot until the driver is loaded.

So, that's why I'm asking about the video card and wireless adapter.

---

### Post by Krutch on 2012-10-25
me 2 have this problem with all ubuntu 12.10 variants , i never faced this problem before in 12.04 or any other distro , my specs are dell inspiron n5110 core i5 with nvidia optimus gt525
, i even tried nomodeset but still the same

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-25
We need to know the wireless adapter as well.  Is the message as I mentioned?

---

### Post by DGINSD on 2012-10-25
The nomodeset option allows the live disc to boot and I have to add it to the command line after install as well, though I didn't have to do this with any of the other versions. Do I need to make the nomodeset permanant or is this a bug that will get fixehere is the out put of lspci, my computer model and make is in my sig.

```
david@HP-G6:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 12h Processor Root Complex
00:01.0 VGA compatible controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Device 9649
00:01.1 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI BeaverCreek HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 6500D and 6400G-6600G series]
00:04.0 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 12h Processor Root Port
00:11.0 SATA controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Hudson SATA Controller [AHCI mode]
00:12.0 USB controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Hudson USB OHCI Controller (rev 11)
00:12.2 USB controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Hudson USB EHCI Controller (rev 11)
00:13.0 USB controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Hudson USB OHCI Controller (rev 11)
00:13.2 USB controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Hudson USB EHCI Controller (rev 11)
00:14.0 SMBus: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Hudson SMBus Controller (rev 13)
00:14.2 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Hudson Azalia Controller (rev 01)
00:14.3 ISA bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Hudson LPC Bridge (rev 11)
00:14.4 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Hudson PCI Bridge (rev 40)
00:15.0 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Device 43a0
00:15.1 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Device 43a1
00:15.2 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Device 43a2
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 12h/14h Processor Function 0 (rev 43)
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 12h/14h Processor Function 1
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 12h/14h Processor Function 2
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 12h/14h Processor Function 3
00:18.4 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 12h/14h Processor Function 4
00:18.5 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 12h/14h Processor Function 6
00:18.6 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 12h/14h Processor Function 5
00:18.7 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 12h/14h Processor Function 7
01:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 05)
07:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4313 802.11b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller (rev 01)
08:00.0 Unassigned class [ff00]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTS5116 PCI Express Card Reader (rev 01)

```

Also no additional drivers (jockey) app, what are they doing with Ubuntu? I've used it for a few years so I know my way around, but for newbs this could be very frustrating, not exactly the "it just works" that drew me to this disto in the first place. 

I know once I get it all set up right and all the minor fixes are in place we're all good, but my machine got quite hot and I had to apply my custom cpu governor fix almost immediately and reboot to bring the temp in operational range.

---

### Post by fooman on 2012-10-25
Additional drivers is now with "software sources"....its a tab at the top right on that window.

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-25
Since the nomodeset worked for livecd, once you have installed ubuntu it will need to be added to the boot line.  Is this a dual-boot so you get the grub boot selection menu?

For your wireless BCM4313 adapter I *think* all you should need to do is install the driver.  The absolute easiest way to do this is to temporarily hard-wire a connection from your PC to the router, then click on the Unity home icon (the top-most icon on the Unity bar) and type "software" - you should see the software sources icon there.  What I'm not sure of is how to make it search again.  It used to be you went to additional drivers and it would search, but I don't know how to do that now that it's been changed.

---

### Post by DGINSD on 2012-10-25
> **squakie said:**
> Since the nomodeset worked for livecd, once you have installed ubuntu it will need to be added to the boot line.  Is this a dual-boot so you get the grub boot selection menu?

For your wireless BCM4313 adapter I *think* all you should need to do is install the driver.  The absolute easiest way to do this is to temporarily hard-wire a connection from your PC to the router, then click on the Unity home icon (the top-most icon on the Unity bar) and type "software" - you should see the software sources icon there.  What I'm not sure of is how to make it search again.  It used to be you went to additional drivers and it would search, but I don't know how to do that now that it's been changed.

The wireless driver seemed to install it's self so thats all good, but now I have an issue with the fglrx driver, after installing it I get no desktop just a background and a mouse cursor. I tried installing it through "software sources" additional drivers section first, then manually through command line both resulting in the same background and cursor only. 

I get the lightdm login screen and am allowed to login but that's when I get taken to the background and cursor.

For what its worth the stock graphics driver is un-useable and quite buggy (hybrid graphics ATI/ATI)

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-26
> **DGINSD said:**
> The wireless driver seemed to install it's self so thats all good, but now I have an issue with the fglrx driver, after installing it I get no desktop just a background and a mouse cursor. I tried installing it through "software sources" additional drivers section first, then manually through command line both resulting in the same background and cursor only. 

I get the lightdm login screen and am allowed to login but that's when I get taken to the background and cursor.

For what its worth the stock graphics driver is un-useable and quite buggy (hybrid graphics ATI/ATI)

Doesn't this point back to your thread on the video issue?  Perhaps you need to follow it again:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1924510](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1924510)

---

### Post by DGINSD on 2012-10-26
> **squakie said:**
> Doesn't this point back to your thread on the video issue?  Perhaps you need to follow it again:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1924510](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1924510)

Actually the result of that thread in summary was "install, remove, install, remove, install, work" which oddly enough is what I've done on this install and after the updates I did before bed last night and a reboot this morning everything seems to be working. Really wierd.

---

### Post by DGINSD on 2012-10-26
> **Krutch said:**
> me 2 have this problem with all ubuntu 12.10 variants , i never faced this problem before in 12.04 or any other distro , my specs are dell inspiron n5110 core i5 with nvidia optimus gt525
, i even tried nomodeset but still the same

Did you try adding nomodeset manually to the but line, I think there's an issue with F6 and selecting, I had to add it physically to the line

---

