---
title: "11.10 3D desktop - will I miss it?"
date: 2011-11-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by drlinux on 2011-11-08
I have recently installed Ubuntu 11.10 on two laptops:

Toshiba Satellite L 510 with a dedicated ATI Radeon Graphics card and

HP Pavilion DM1 with an AMD Fusion E-300 processor – again ATI graphics but integrated.

Have used both Unity and Gnome 3 and really prefer Gnome.  Unfortunately as you will be aware the FGLRX driver that comes with Ubuntu causes significant problems with Gnome making it unusable.

My question is would I notice the difference installing Gnome without this driver? 

I will be using the computers for word processing, spreadheets and some graphics work using the Gimp.

 My knowledge of how a computer handles graphics is close to zero.  

My understanding of the main advantages of a 3D desktop was mainly eye candy eg Wobbly Windows and Cube desktop effect – and should say haven't noticed any of these effects on Unity or Gnome 3

If I try and run Unity 3D or Gnome 3 without the ATI drivers do I get a 2D desktop by default or do I get a 3D desktop which runs slower?

When I ran a system check on the Graphics/Compiz this is the output I got:

Gathering information about your system... Distribution: Ubuntu 11.10 Desktop environment: Xfce Graphics chip: ATI Technologies Inc M92 [Mobility Radeon HD 4500/5100 Series] Driver in use: vesa Rendering method: AIGLX Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system... [SKIP] Checking for hardware/setup problems... [SKIP] At least one check had to be skipped: Error: vesa driver in use Would you like to know more? (Y/n) 

I see it mentions a Mobility Radeon driver in use but I definitely haven't added the FGLRX driver – I am confused and would be grateful for any help/advice :)

---

### Post by peter d on 2011-11-09
As I understand it, if your machine does not support the 3D graphics in Unity Ubuntu 11.10 will default to Unity 2D. Gnome 3 will default to its fallback mode which I think looks like Gnome 2.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-11-09
You are right -- 3D is the eye candy. Everything will still work well with 2D.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-11-09
You don't need the proprietary driver for the eye candy stuffs. 3D desktop works out of the box with the open source drivers for both the Nvidia and ATI machines I have tested on. But for smooth 3d and graphic in general the xorg-edgers ppa would work much better than the stock drivers in Ubuntu, unfortunately it is not working in 11.10 atm (will break Unity) In 11.04 with xorg-edgers the 3d desktop works extremely well, you can't tell if you are using the open or proprietary driver by looking at the desktop and the 3d effects,--like rotating the cube.

---

### Post by drlinux on 2011-11-09
Thanks for that guys  - yes I think I have a handle on this now  - basically won't get the full 3D performance until Gnome 3 and ATI get their act together - however Gnome 3 still looks and performs very well on the open source drivers.

Also found this thread helpful:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1865257&highlight=3d+desktop&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1865257&highlight=3d+desktop&page=2)

---

### Post by waynefoutz on 2011-11-10
> **drlinux said:**
> Thanks for that guys  - yes I think I have a handle on this now  - basically won't get the full 3D performance until Gnome 3 and ATI get their act together - however Gnome 3 still looks and performs very well on the open source drivers.

Also found this thread helpful:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1865257&highlight=3d+desktop&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1865257&highlight=3d+desktop&page=2)

Not so fast. If you have a modern ATI card, one that's less than 3 years old, the open source Radeon driver installed by Ubuntu by default should give you all the whiz bang 3d effects you are asking for, Gnome-shell runs perfect with the Radeon drivers as well. The open source driver is inferior in some respects, but for the basic stuff, it gets the job done quite nicely. The only place you'll see a difference is heavy stuff like 3d gaming. For instance, the open source driver while playing "Urban Terror" gives me a framerate of 40 fps. With the fglrx driver installed, it jumps up to 90 fps. 40 is still pretty good.

---

### Post by drlinux on 2011-11-10
[QUOTE=waynefoutz;11442697]Not so fast. If you have a modern ATI card, one that's less than 3 years old, the open source Radeon driver installed by Ubuntu by default should give you all the whiz bang 3d effects you are asking for, Gnome-shell runs perfect with the Radeon drivers as well

Yes have got Gnome shell working OK with the open source drivers - however interestingly I have a HP DM1 notebook and according to a post in another forum below one guy thinks that he gets better battery life out of the proprietary driver - i.e. there is better power management

If I were to install the proprietary driver from the additional drivers utility in Ubuntu there are two choices as follows:
ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver (post-release updates)
ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver

I am not sure wether I choose one of these or install both. If I choose only one  - which one?
Any advice is appreciated :)

---

### Post by waynefoutz on 2011-11-12
> **drlinux said:**
> [QUOTE=waynefoutz;11442697]Not so fast. If you have a modern ATI card, one that's less than 3 years old, the open source Radeon driver installed by Ubuntu by default should give you all the whiz bang 3d effects you are asking for, Gnome-shell runs perfect with the Radeon drivers as well

Yes have got Gnome shell working OK with the open source drivers - however interestingly I have a HP DM1 notebook and according to a post in another forum below one guy thinks that he gets better battery life out of the proprietary driver - i.e. there is better power management

If I were to install the proprietary driver from the additional drivers utility in Ubuntu there are two choices as follows:
ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver (post-release updates)
ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver

I am not sure wether I choose one of these or install both. If I choose only one  - which one?
Any advice is appreciated :)

I have yet to meet anyone who has gotten the "post-release" driver to install. The regular FGLRX is installed on mine. It works great with Unity, but with Gnome-shell it doesn't. If you're using Gnome-shell and happy with the open source drivers, I wouldn't install either.

---

### Post by drlinux on 2011-11-12
> **waynefoutz said:**
> [QUOTE=drlinux;11443504]

I have yet to meet anyone who has gotten the "post-release" driver to install. The regular FGLRX is installed on mine. It works great with Unity, but with Gnome-shell it doesn't. If you're using Gnome-shell and happy with the open source drivers, I wouldn't install either.

I ended up sticking with Unity as the FGLRX driver gives a much improved performance on my HP DM1 with the AMD E-300 - improved power management with reduced CPU temp and improved battery life.  Unity is a fine desktop with some tweaks using the Compiz-config manager

---

