---
title: "My xorg.conf"
date: 2008-12-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by djen9999 on 2008-12-17
I have been operating in low graphics mode for over a month now.  When I get the low graphics warning it states that it can't parse my xorg.conf.

I am at my wits end trying to figure out the problem.  Something doesn't seem right, but I don't have enough experience to know exactly what it is.  Below is a complete print-out of my xorg.conf.  Can anyone find the anomaly here and help me correct it?  I'll be happy to provide any further information.  I am using the Nvidia version 177 driver which is the recommended driver for my card.

BTW when I upgraded to Intrepid, all I got was a blank screen.  I added:

 DeviceSize "1280X1024@60" 

to at least get a screen and my proper resolution.  This could be part (or all) of the problem but it's what I remembered.  It at least got me my screen even if it was in low graphic mode.

 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
DeviceSize "1280X1024@60"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Option "UseFBDev" "true"
Driver "nvidia"
Option "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2008-12-17
What method did you use to install your drivers?

---

### Post by djen9999 on 2008-12-17
When I upgraded to Intrepid, I only had a blank screen.  I went into recovery and installed the driver through Administration > Hardware Drivers.

---

### Post by Shhnap on 2008-12-17
Just a quick question. You said that the file is not parsing soooo... my xorg.conf looks like this:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SHMConfig"	"true"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
```

Maybe you can see a problem by comparing the two...hope that helps.

---

### Post by djen9999 on 2008-12-17
It's a little difficult to compare two different systems but there might be something there that I can use.  Thanks.

---

### Post by Shhnap on 2008-12-17
Well...don't qoute me on this...but i seem to remember that it was important that the:

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection


part was below everything else. I think that is why my file looks like it does. Maybe you could give that a try and see if it does anything (Which it probably will not).

---

### Post by djen9999 on 2008-12-17
Hey, it's worth a try.

---

### Post by Locutus_of_Borg on 2008-12-17
you need quotation marks around the 24 in default depth


at the least, there might be more wrong, but that will definitely give you an error

---

### Post by djen9999 on 2008-12-17
Well, it didn't fix anything but nothing broke either.

---

### Post by Shhnap on 2008-12-17
Ah well, i know it sounded stupid. Sorry I couldn't be of more help.

---

### Post by djen9999 on 2008-12-17
I just noticed that there are no quotes around the 24 in the Depthsize in Shhnap's xorg.conf either.

---

### Post by djen9999 on 2008-12-26
I was just going to bump this to see if some new eyes might latch on to it and help me out.  However, I decided to try sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg which brought up a lot of things about my keyboard but not a word about my monitor, resolution or extended graphics.  Does THIS help anyone?

---

