---
title: "160 gb HDD, 86.8 GB in use?"
date: 2011-12-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by aem0512 on 2011-12-30
I have a 160 gb HDD, I did a fresh install of Xubuntu 11.10 about a month ago. What in the world is taking up so much space?

File system total:
258750 items, totalling 86.8 GB
53.4 GB free

of that the Home folder contains: 1973 items, totalling 392.3 MB

It makes no sense that a lightweight desktop environment like XFCE would take up so much disk space.

Let me know if you have any advice on how to clean some of this up.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-12-30
Take a look at this thread to help you analyze what is taking up so much space. Normally it is undeleted trash (your's and root's), large log files, or backups stored on / which should have been stored on another partition.

[HOWTO: Recover Lost Disk Space ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1122670")

---

### Post by aem0512 on 2011-12-30
I ran the partition check and I only have 1 partition:

/dev/sda1     ext4    147G   86G   54G  62% /
Filesystem    Type    Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on

Ran the folder check to see which is largest:

544K	/tmp
376M	/lib
101M	/opt
4.0K	/mnt
8.2M	/bin
0	/sys
4.0K	/dev
du: cannot access `/proc/3435/task/3435/ns/net': No such file or directory
du: cannot access `/proc/3435/task/3435/ns/uts': No such file or directory
du: cannot access `/proc/3435/task/3435/ns/ipc': No such file or directory
du: cannot access `/proc/3435/ns/net': No such file or directory
du: cannot access `/proc/3435/ns/uts': No such file or directory
du: cannot access `/proc/3435/ns/ipc': No such file or directory
du: cannot access `/proc/3494/task/3494/fd/3': No such file or directory
du: cannot access `/proc/3494/task/3494/fdinfo/3': No such file or directory
du: cannot access `/proc/3494/fd/3': No such file or directory
du: cannot access `/proc/3494/fdinfo/3': No such file or directory
0	/proc
64M	/boot
4.0K	/media
16K	/lost+found
82G	/var
4.0K	/cdrom
888K	/run
du: cannot access `/home/dina/.gvfs': Permission denied
389M	/home
2.5G	/usr
4.0K	/selinux
17M	/root
9.1M	/sbin
4.0K	/srv
14M	/etc
86G	/


Looks like it is my /var folder...I will do the file check next...

---

### Post by aem0512 on 2011-12-30
I get these results for the file check...

sudo find /var -name '*' -size +1G
/var/log/kern.log.1
/var/log/syslog.1
/var/log/kern.log

So then how and what can I get rid of?

---

### Post by cukeboy84 on 2011-12-30
A program I like to use to see what's stealing my disk space is called "ncdu". It's a console/text program, but nice, simple and fast. There are some graphical/gui apps for this, like kdiskfree, and baobab. I don't have much experience with these, so your best bet is to search the forums for someone who has.

Hope this helps :)

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-12-30
> **aem0512 said:**
> I get these results for the file check...

sudo find /var -name '*' -size +1G
/var/log/kern.log.1
/var/log/syslog.1
/var/log/kern.log

So then how and what can I get rid of?

The .1 logs are a bit older and you can delete them without any worry. The safest way is probably to open your file browser as root, then use SHIFT-DEL to remove the file. If you just use the DEL key it will move the file to root's trash, where it will still take up space until you empty root's trash bin.

As for kern.log, you might want to inspect the contents before you delete it. Since this is the most recent kernel log file, it means whatever caused the file to grow so large is most likely still at work.

You will probably find a repeating line. If you post it perhaps someone here will be able to tell you what the problem is and how to prevent it in the future. Note that you can safely remove the file, but being able to reference it until you figure out the problem would be a good idea.

---

### Post by aem0512 on 2011-12-30
I found out I needed to add a file to my home directory called .drirc The file contains the following text:


<driconf>
<device screen="0" driver="dri2">
<application name="Default">
<option name="vblank_mode" value="0" />
</application>
</device>
</driconf>

I believe this is a temporary fix for this bug. Something about " [drm:intel_prepare_page_flip] *ERROR* Prepared flip multiple times".

Anyway, I cleaned it all up and nulled my logs. Disk space is all good now. We will see if it stays that way.

---

### Post by cukeboy84 on 2011-12-30
Here are some links for baobab: [http://www.marzocca.net/linux/baobab/]("http://www.marzocca.net/linux/baobab/"). Another program I found called filelight looks pretty cool too: [http://methylblue.com/filelight/]("http://methylblue.com/filelight/").

Your log files seem a bit big to me (if they're above 1 GB).

I've attached a screenshot; some of the graphical programs show disk usage in a pie-chart format (and you can click on each piece to go into each folder for a more detailed view).

---

### Post by SycloneMedia on 2011-12-30
If you did the regular install, the system will set aside / partition swap space usually 1GB per 1GB of RAM you have, if I am not mistaken.

For example, I just built my system this week with a 180GB SSD. It only shows a little over 100GB for my system/user drive, because it partitioned 64GB of the drive as swap (because I have 64GB of RAM installed.)

So if you have a ton of RAM, that might be why... you have a huge swap.

---

### Post by 67GTA on 2011-12-30
Have you cleared your apt cache lately? Check /var/cache/apt. Copies of installed deb packages are kept there. You can easily have copies of a few GB's of packages you have previously installed hiding there.

---

### Post by Henkdroid on 2011-12-31
Bleachbit is a tool that lets you pick what you want to delete, including old logs. If you install bleachbit then run it once a week then this shouldn't happen again.

---

### Post by cortman on 2011-12-31
> **SycloneMedia said:**
> If you did the regular install, the system will set aside / partition swap space usually 1GB per 1GB of RAM you have, if I am not mistaken.

For example, I just built my system this week with a 180GB SSD. It only shows a little over 100GB for my system/user drive, because it partitioned 64GB of the drive as swap (because I have 64GB of RAM installed.)

So if you have a ton of RAM, that might be why... you have a huge swap.

You have a computer with _64_ gig of ram????

---

### Post by ts3 on 2011-12-31
> **cortman said:**
> you have a computer with _64_ gig of ram????

+ 1

I did a little double take when I read this as well :)

---

### Post by SycloneMedia on 2011-12-31
> **cortman said:**
> You have a computer with _64_ gig of ram????

> **ts3 said:**
> + 1

I did a little double take when I read this as well :)

Lol, yes, actually. Just put together a super workstation build with the all new components just introduced during the past couple months. 

That's why I was interested in this thread, because I was wondering the same thing with my hard drive only showing about 60% available on a new installation. When I investigated, the rest is in swap. So I have 64GB ram, and an additional 64GB solid state swap... I know, ridiculous overkill, lol, but it's all good since I'll be doing large HD video editing.

---

### Post by Derek Karpinski on 2012-01-02
Aside from hibernating, why would you need any swap space at all? 800 tabs open in FF?

---

