---
title: "[SOLVED] 2nd hard drive permission"
date: 2008-11-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Frogster on 2008-11-05
How do I give myself permission to read and write to my second hard drive? Its mounted I just cant use it :confused:

If any extra info is needed please ask as I will provide what's needed to get this sorted

---

### Post by boof1988 on 2008-11-05
> **Frogster said:**
> How do I give myself permission to read and write to my second hard drive? Its mounted I just cant use it :confused:

If any extra info is needed please ask as I will provide what's needed to get this sorted

You can go the Command Input (Terminal) method or GUI and maybe others.

Which do you prefer?

Note: I'm a noob so I just know a little so far but maybe I can help.

:guitar:

---

### Post by altonbr on 2008-11-05
How did you mount it?

Is it an external hard drive, or install internally?

What filesystem is it using? NTFS, ext3. etc.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-11-05
What type of format and how are you mounting it? Would you please post the results of:
```

cat /etc/fstab
sudo blkid
mount

```

---

### Post by Frogster on 2008-11-05
I used an application called "Storage device manager" to mount the drive.

I don't mind using GUI or command the line

---

### Post by Frogster on 2008-11-05
Output as requested 

Ithink this should be put in a code box but have lost the note on how to do that!!!

keith@Ernie:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc                                       /proc          proc         defaults                    0  0  
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=d01b80d2-8098-429f-8de2-88234cb11463  /              ext3         defaults,errors=remount-ro  0  1  
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=11e57445-5f48-4a46-96e0-15148af2acf0  none           swap         sw                          0  0  
/dev/hdc                                   /media/cdrom0  udf,iso9660  user,noauto,exec            0  0  
/dev/sda1                                  /media/sda1    ext3         defaults                    0  0  
/dev/sdb1                                  /media/sdb1    ext3         defaults                    0  0  
/dev/sdb5                                  /media/sdb5    swap         defaults                    0  0  
keith@Ernie:~$ sudo blkid
[sudo] password for keith:
/dev/sda1: UUID="f38702ef-6a6b-40cb-a9c1-6f7be65ba5de" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sdb1: UUID="d01b80d2-8098-429f-8de2-88234cb11463" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sdb5: TYPE="swap" UUID="11e57445-5f48-4a46-96e0-15148af2acf0" 
keith@Ernie:~$

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-11-05
To put something in the code box, click on the # symbol while you are making your post. It will insert **```
[/code**. (I had to leave off the trailing **]** so it would display. You would make the entry between the two.

Since your partitions are ext3, just change the ownership of the mount point to yourself:
[CODE]sudo chown -R *yourusername:* /path.to.mountpoint
```
Example (it looks like sda1 is the non-root partition you probably want to write to): 
sudo chown -R keith: /media/sda1

---

### Post by Frogster on 2008-11-06
> **drs305 said:**
> To put something in the code box, click on the # symbol while you are making your post. It will insert **```
[/code**. (I had to leave off the trailing **]** so it would display. You would make the entry between the two.

Since your partitions are ext3, just change the ownership of the mount point to yourself:
[CODE]sudo chown -R *yourusername:* /path.to.mountpoint
```
Example (it looks like sda1 is the non-root partition you probably want to write to): 
sudo chown -R keith: /media/sda1

Thank you for the reply

```

```sudo chown -R keith: /media/sda1```

``` seems to have removed all my permissions on this machine! :confused:

Help!!!!

---

### Post by rakris on 2008-11-06
try this.

```


sudo chown -R <username> /media/sda1
chmod -R 777 /media/sda1




```

---

### Post by tuxulin on 2008-11-06
or chmod -R 755 /media/sda1

---

### Post by Jimmyfj on 2008-11-06
you need to grant rights to both user and group on the drive to obtain rights to use the drive:

```
sudo chown -R username:username /media/sda1
```

then you need to grant the rights needed:

```
sudo chmod -R 755 /media/sda1
```

---

### Post by Frogster on 2008-11-06
Hey ho

Thank you all for your replies. It seems something strange is afoot at the "circle k"

Any command entered into the command line now gives the response: 

Sudo: must be setuid root

What has happened?? Have i in inadvertently removed my root permissions?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-11-06
You can try to restore order with the following. Boot to the recovery mode and select the 'root prompt' option:
```

chown root:root /usr/bin/sudo
chmod 755 /usr/bin/sudo
chmod 755 /bin/su

```

Hopefully, this will restore things. If you ran the chown and/or permission commands on your system folder instead of the extra device you may have bigger issues.

---

### Post by Frogster on 2008-11-08
Seems like bigger issues!!!!! I have been unable to get "sudo" back in order. so have a machine that works but I cant do anything on because I dont have permission! 

Thought I would move music, photos and some documents to another drive so that I could install 7.10 again but dont have permission.

*Shakes head and smiles*

---

### Post by Kellemora on 2008-11-08
Hi Frogster

It sounds like I'm a little late here!

NEVER run a command UNTIL you know exactly what it does AND that you are doing it to the CORRECT item.

Without seeing a printout of your Partitions, one should NEVER assume based on the contents of fstab.

Logically speaking, your 2nd hard drive was probably sdb not sda, although it doesn't appear that way in the fstab printout.

Don't worry, you haven't lost your DATA though, just had it's permissions changed along with the system files which is why it's not working.  If that is the problem you are experiencing?????

You should be able to boot from a Live CD, copy your user Data over to the empty hard drive for safe keeping, while you work on getting your main hard drive going again.  IF you changed the permissions of your system files globally, a reinstall will be quicker than trying to fix things back up again.

I know, been there Done That!  sda2 was NOT my second hard drive, it was my system folder, and contained /home at that time, and with Wine and it's data files, ouch hi hi....

Good Luck!

TTUL
Gary

---

### Post by Frogster on 2008-11-08
Hi kellemora

Yup I jumped in with both feet on this one :-) Its very wierd, everything looks fine and as it should be but I cant open network manager (for example) to make changes. 

2nd hard drive(sda1) permissions owner = root

/ect/fstab permissions owner = keith

Will get the photos ect moved, somehow and then just reinstall.

Thanks everybody for the help

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2008-11-08
I just did this.

open terminal or alt-F2
type 'gksudo nautilus'
navigate to drive
on right pane of nautilus, in a folder or whole drive right click
goto properties - permissions.

under others folder access tell it  'create and delete files'

might have to reboot, but it works.
I did not bother with fstab changes.

---

### Post by Frogster on 2008-11-08
Thanks sdowney717

the "gksudo nautilus" command doesn't seem to do anything. :confused:

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2008-11-08
nautilus is the default file manager for gnome.
If you are running ubuntu, it should work.
run it in terminal to see what it says

KDE has dolphin or konqueror
and you can try thunar

---

### Post by Frogster on 2008-11-08
Yup running Ubuntu but on the damaged machine I get no responce at all but on this machine get the root file browser.

---

### Post by handydan918 on 2008-11-08
> **sdowney717 said:**
> nautilus is the default file manager for gnome.
If you are running ubuntu, it should work.
run it in terminal to see what it says

KDE has dolphin or konqueror
and you can try thunar

The point seems to be that the frogster has inadvertently un-sudoed himself. Ergo, gksudo ( or any other sudo-ism) will do approximately nothing.


Seems like a good time to have a spare root account lying around....


Ooops, did I say that out loud?


:o:D:guitar:

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-11-08
frogster,

I've lost most of our PMs from Thursday. Did you try booting the recovery mode, selecting 'drop to root shell' and then running the following to regain admin powers?
```
adduser keith admin
```

---

### Post by phirestalker on 2008-11-08
deleted

---

### Post by Frogster on 2008-11-09
> **handydan918 said:**
> the frogster has inadvertently un-sudoed himself. 

:o:D:guitar:

That made me laugh out load, I may have done many things in the past but inadvertently un-sudoing myself is a new one!:D

---

### Post by Frogster on 2008-11-09
> **drs305 said:**
> frogster,

I've lost most of our PMs from Thursday. Did you try booting the recovery mode, selecting 'drop to root shell' and then running the following to regain admin powers?
```
adduser keith admin
``` 

I did try it but got the response that I was already included? 

Hopefully, nothing drastic has caused the loss?

Many thanks

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-11-09
Frogster,

Are you just trying to copy/preserve files? Your best option at this point is to just reinstall the system after you have recovered your data.

If you still can't do anything as root with the 'keith' logon, I would try what handydan18 recommended. Boot to the command line of the recovery mode (choose 'boot to root prompt') and create a new user with admin rights. If the problem is just with 'keith', this would fix it:
```

adduser newuser
addgroup newuser admin
reboot

```

You should now be able to logon as 'newuser' and hopefully have admin rights. Start nautilus with the following and copy any files you want to save to a different partition/drive/usb device, etc). If you can do that, I would then reinstall the system. Your other option if things appear to work ok for the new user would be to just stick with the new user and leave everything the way it is, although I would suspect the root system permissions are still screwed up and would recommend a reinstall:
```

gksudo nautilus /home/keith

```

---

### Post by Frogster on 2008-11-09
Cheers for that I now have newuser set up but I am still having problems with permissions. However, progress is being made with all your help.

I can now see things like network manager start to start. They appear in the bottom bar with an exclamation mark, they then disappear...*scratches head again*

How do I discover the harddrives labels so that I can add the correct permission to save my music, photos and doc prior to the reinstall? is it ```
sudo fdisk -l[CODE]
```[/CODE]

> **drs305 said:**
> Frogster,

Are you just trying to copy/preserve files? Your best option at this point is to just reinstall the system after you have recovered your data.

If you still can't do anything as root with the 'keith' logon, I would try what handydan18 recommended. Boot to the command line of the recovery mode (choose 'boot to root prompt') and create a new user with admin rights. If the problem is just with 'keith', this would fix it:
```

adduser newuser
addgroup newuser admin
reboot

```

You should now be able to logon as 'newuser' and hopefully have admin rights. Start nautilus with the following and copy any files you want to save to a different partition/drive/usb device, etc). If you can do that, I would then reinstall the system. Your other option if things appear to work ok for the new user would be to just stick with the new user and leave everything the way it is, although I would suspect the root system permissions are still screwed up and would recommend a reinstall:
```

gksudo nautilus /home/keith

```

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2008-11-10
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/fixsudo](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/fixsudo)

perhaps this might be useful on how to fix broken sudo

---

### Post by Frogster on 2008-11-13
**Thank you all for your help and advice.** Once again another learning experience for me.:)

I have managed to sort the permissions out enough to get my data copied onto another disk and I am now in the process of reinstalling Ubuntu.

---

