---
title: "/dev/sda5: clean, 160364/6111232 files, 1869799/24413696 folders"
date: 2020-11-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rogerw2021 on 2020-11-10
New to unix, linux, and new to ubuntu.


Did a dual boot install on partitioned HDD, brand new HDD. Installed Windows 10. Installed Ubuntu 20.4. Used Ubuntu directly after install it was fine. Then did first restart into windows. Then config dual boot with EasyBCD. Rebooting into Ubuntu after dual boot config. It stalls on a command. /dev/sda5: clean, 160364/6111232 files, 1869799/24413696 folders
Basically I did exactly what was instructed in this online video [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-iSAyiicyQY](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-iSAyiicyQY)

I read up on some articles and it refers to fsck which is a disk check command? But I have started with a brand new hard drive so cant have any disk errors. I paid special attention to the instructions that warned not to install "GRUB"on the whole HDD or the wrong partition that will negatively affect windows. that the GRUB must be installed in the Linux partition.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2020-11-10
I didn't watch the whole video, but it says early on it's only for installing in bios/legacy mode. Windows 10 really wants to be in UEFI mode and dual booting Windows 10 (or 8) and Ubuntu in legacy mode is rather complex and fragile. In UEFI mode both boot loaders can exist side by side. You can't simply convert; the best way to change to UEFI mode is by reinstalling both Windows and Ubuntu.

I don't think that's what causes the problem, as your problem happens well after the bootloader does its thing. The message from fsck is normal, but should be hidden by a splash screen (but it's also normal that it isn't). Something may be wrong with the login screen or the graphics driver. Can you tell a bit more about your hardware?

BTW, a filesystem check doesn't only happen after a hardware failure. It's also required after unclean shutdown, but in this case it's only making sure that the last shutdown was clean.

BTW 2: Here is some official documentation to read: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI). Half the videos you find on youtube are rubbish.

---

### Post by rogerw2021 on 2020-11-10
The video shows you how to check if you on legacy. By running msinfo32.msc. I confirmed just like in video I am on legacy. This was a fresh install of both windows 10 and ubuntu 20.4 yes the problem happened after configuring dual boot. before restarting after Ubuntu install Ubuntu was running and i used it for a while before restarting and configuring dual boot. My hardware is a Dell Latitude E6520 16 GB Physical Memory, new HDD 500 GB. Partitions 200 GB Windows 10. 100 GB Linux with 10 GB Swap.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2020-11-11
On UEFI systems, the Windows bootloader and the Linux bootloader (grub) are installed side by side and it all happens automatically. The Windows bootloader boots Windows, the Linux bootloader can boot both Linux and Windows. If Windows is damaged (or using FastStartup, which may be automatically enabled on Windows), the Linux bootloader can no longer boot it, but you can switch to the Windows bootloader.

On a legacy system, there can only be a single bootloader in de master boot record. Usually that's grub, which can be installed and configured automatically, but when Windows is damaged grub can no longer boot Windows. Your guide does it the hard way and puts Windows in charge, chainloading to grub in a partition boot record, but that's fragile too. This time Linux is the one probably getting unbootable. What's more, Windows 8/10 in legacy mode has the habit of occasionally deleting Linux partitions.

Any particular reason why you are on legacy? When dual booting with Windows 8 or 10 that's typically a bad idea, although it may be required on some older computers built around 2012. But Dells are typically well-behaved. If you want to change to UEFI after all, now is the time to do it, as it requires reinstalling both operating systems. Even if using legacy mode doesn't cause your current problem (I think it doesn't), it's likely to cause other problems later.

When installing, did you ask to install proprietary drivers (if available)? Google tells me that your computer may have come with nvidia graphics, which often require proprietary drivers. Ubuntu can find and install them semi-automatically, but they are not included automatically for license reasons.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2020-11-11
@rogerw2021

Please refrain from nonstandard formatting in your posts. It does not render well on some small mobile devices and is difficult to read.

---

### Post by rogerw2021 on 2020-11-15
OK. So I wiped out everything and started again. Recall I have a Dell Latitude E6520. I checked in my BIOS. Only place I see Legacy vs UEFI option is under General >> Boot Sequence. Under Legacy the options of Boot Sequence seems easy there are drop down lists of boot sequences that can be sorted in the required order. But under UEFI it seems more manual and it doesn't detect boot options automatically. I even upgraded the BIOS from A6 to A8 to A21. So with the Boot Sequence on UEFI I install Windows first before I install Ubuntu because most of the Youtube videos suggest this. But after the windows installation with Boot Sequence on EUFI and not on Legacy, I boot into Windows , I run msinfo32 and I see Windows is still installed in Legacy Mode. 

So from your previous posts I gather I should not continue at this point with Ubuntu install into dual boot as I would land up with the dame problem due to Windows still being installed in Legacy Bios Mode instead of UEFI Mode?

Before I wiped out everything to start from scratch I read somewhere , how to boot up with the Ubuntu install and then download and install boot repair utility. the install worked, but this made problems worse. After than install I could not boot into windows either. Thats why I wiped out everything. I deleted all partitions and started from scratch with Windows but have not installed the Ubuntu one yet because Windows keeps installing into Legacy Mode.

---

### Post by tea for one on 2020-11-15
> **rogerw2021 said:**
>  I run msinfo32 and I see Windows is still installed in Legacy Mode. 

So from your previous posts I gather I should not continue at this point with Ubuntu install into dual boot as I would land up with the dame problem due to Windows still being installed in Legacy Bios Mode instead of UEFI Mode?.

Possibly, you have to enable Secure Boot and disable Legacy Option Roms to install Windows 10 in UEFI mode.

I found this link - it may be helpful? 

[https://www.dell.com/community/Latitude/E6520-VS-Secure-Boot/m-p/6210122#M8446](https://www.dell.com/community/Latitude/E6520-VS-Secure-Boot/m-p/6210122#M8446)

---

### Post by rogerw2021 on 2020-11-15
Hi yes tx been reading that link and similar links whole day. Seems I have the same problem. [https://www.dell.com/community/Latitude/E6520-VS-Secure-Boot/m-p/6210122#M8446](https://www.dell.com/community/Latitude/E6520-VS-Secure-Boot/m-p/6210122#M8446) I still dont have the Secure Boot option in my Dell Bios (v A21). Then also under Boot Sequence, I dont have a boot manager under UEFI option, only under Legacy Option. Unless I am reading the articles incorrectly and missing the actual fix, which I dont see, it could mean my laptop cant do full UEFI. If in my BIOS under UEFI I click the Add Boot Option to add the SSD partition with the windows install, it comes up black. If I put a USB bootable stick in, it detects it though. So at the moment I have a windows partition where I installed Windows 10 while my Bios was set to UEFI; but when I run msinfo32 my windows indicate Legacy Mode. But when I start the laptop I have to press F12 and explicitly choose Internal (IRRT) for the had drive option for windows to boot up. All this because I want to install Ubuntu in dual boot. Which I have been informed cant be done under Legacy Bios Mode.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-11-15
How you boot install media, UEFI or BIOS from UEFI one time boot key, f12, is then how both Windows & Ubuntu install. You should have two settings to boot flash drive installer, but some tools may create an installer that is either UEFI or BIOS not both.

But Windows will only install to gpt(GUID) partitioned drives in UEFI mode.
If you originally installed in BIOS boot mode, Windows would have made drive MBR(msdos) partitioned.
Best to convert to gpt and boot Windows installer in UEFI boot mode.

If UEFI Secure Boot is on, then only UEFI boot mode is available. Often then boot from USB ports is also prevented, so system is secure, but another UEFI setting will allow USB boot.
And many systems call Secure Boot as "Windows" or "Other". Older systems said to use "Other" for Windows 7 as it did not support Secure Boot.

You can install both systems in UEFI mode or both in BIOS mode. But cannot mix on same drive and should not mix if on separate drives.
And really should only use gpt partitioning which then is UEFI only for Windows. Ubuntu can install in BIOS mode to gpt, so how you boot Ubuntu installer needs to match the boot mode used to install Windows.

---

