---
title: "8.04 vs8.10"
date: 2008-11-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dgerwin11 on 2008-11-14
Hi,

Is it worth upgrading to 8.10 if my main activities are running spreadsheets, docs, email (gmail) and general web surfing?

What great improvements are there?

---

### Post by MasterSander on 2008-11-14
You won't really notice any improvements, you'll just have the newest version. And Hardy is longer supported anyway.

---

### Post by porchrat on 2008-11-14
I must admit I don't see a huge difference between the two.  Realistically if that is all you use Ubuntu for you're better off with 8.04 especially considering it is a Long Term Support release.

---

### Post by Absorbed on 2008-11-14
I believe the main improvement is for people with wireless cards. And you have the latest versions of everything, but apart from that it's basically the same. Intrepid has been a little buggy for me, but I think it's worked perfectly for most people.

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2008-11-14
For me and my HP tx1000 tablet 8.10 was a very big upgrade for me in terms of hardware compatibility.

I would first try 8.04 and it seems that your hardware isn't agreeing with the OS properly, then I would upgrade to 8.10.

---

### Post by porchrat on 2008-11-14
I must admit I had problems with wireless (by problems I mean it isn't supported out-of-the-box), but I dealt with them just as easily as I dealt with them in Hardy.  I run a server with 8.04 and a desktop with 8.10 and the lack of proper xorg support for ATI cards (in 8.10) is really killing me, the desktop is cripplingly slow as a result.  It isn't intrepid's fault mind you and I'm sure support will be sorted out soon and will be available on the ATI website, but still it is annoying.

I really don't see a change in wireless network support (as can be seen from the still numerous threads in the networking forum), but perhaps it is a luck-of-the-draw thing?

---

### Post by bennachie on 2008-11-14
The big improvements are in the network management area (that was decisive for me, since 8.10 is quite a bit more capable out of the box in that respect). You can find a relevant press release at:

[http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-8.10-desktop](http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-8.10-desktop)

If you want to check out some of the work that remains to be done, you can check: 

[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading)

You may not find the upgrade compelling. Incidentally, you may want to note that 8.10 comes with OpenOffice 2.4.1 rather than OpenOffice 3.0 (because of timing issues, I understand). In any case, you could easily install the latter package in 8.04.

---

### Post by EvilRobotDrew on 2008-11-14
If everything is working fine, then i would stick with 8.04. While the upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10 doesn't seem to have caused too many people issues, if you don't care about not being on the bleeding edge, then stick with what is stable and is gong to be supported for a while yet.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2008-11-14
8.10 can and DOES at times create display issues as the drivers for some cards are really kludged.  You will lose such things as Compiz for NVidia as an example .. and if you use your monitor in portrait for anything, that will also disappear.  They ARE working on the issues, but they are there right now, none the less.

You CAN get the monitor to work .. just no bells and whistles yet!

---

### Post by dgerwin11 on 2008-11-14
Thanks every one.  I think I can find more productive use of my time by sticking with 8.04.  I guess us average mundane users don't need cutting edge tech "just because it is there".  But new is also good.  Ubuntu does beat the daylights out of Windows as far as I am concerned.

I also have a several year old Compaq with windows XP as a back up/spare.  It was a cheap WalMart special, so it wasn't cutting edge when new.  I am thinking of installing Xubuntu on it due to age and lack of memory.  Is that a good idea, or should I install Ubuntu or just hold my nose and use Windows?

---

### Post by jimmy the saint on 2008-11-14
Xubuntu is good.  I enjoyed it.  I HATE Intrepid on my laptop for one reason: the wireless kill-switch bug.  if you disable wireless, you  have to open a terminal and remove, and readd the drivers manually in order to restore it.  A patch has been created, but since the devs list the issue as "medium" they are taking their time rolling it out.  other than that though, intrepid seems ok.  I still have 8.04 on my main box, so that gives you an idea of where I stand.

More on Xubuntu.  Be prepared for some bugs and strange behavior.  I started a thread in which I detailed fixes for many bugs in the last release, but they were release specific and probably won't do much good for the current release.  The point is that you should be comfortable doing at least a little trouble shooting before adopting Xubuntu as your main OS.  Once the kinkk are worked out though, I loved it.  I am probably going to replace Ubuntu on my laptop with Xubuntu again for the sheer simplicity and speed improvements.

Good Luck

JTS

---

### Post by s3kt0r on 2008-11-14
Won't be upgrading to 8.10 anytime soon. I'm on a HP g7000 series laptop, where everything needed works perfectly. From wireless to the graphics and sound card, even the brightness buttons now work (got it working with help here in the forum), perfectly happy with 8.04.

---

### Post by Vegan on 2008-11-14
8.10 is best for servers rather then desktops. While the wireless stuff is better most of the fixes are under the hood so to speak.

:guitar:

---

### Post by squeabs on 2008-11-14
I've noticed how slow 8.10 is, but I shrugged it off. It really hit me when my girlfriend, who doesn't know a lot about computers, told me she liked the "old" one better than this one. "Old" meaning 8.04 and "this one" being 8.10.

---

### Post by crjackson on 2008-11-14
> **dgerwin11 said:**
> Thanks every one.  I think I can find more productive use of my time by sticking with 8.04.  I guess us average mundane users don't need cutting edge tech "just because it is there".  But new is also good.  Ubuntu does beat the daylights out of Windows as far as I am concerned.

I also have a several year old Compaq with windows XP as a back up/spare.  It was a cheap WalMart special, so it wasn't cutting edge when new.  I am thinking of installing Xubuntu on it due to age and lack of memory.  Is that a good idea, or should I install Ubuntu or just hold my nose and use Windows?

I use 8.04 on my desktop for great stability and function (everything works). On my laptop I use 8.10 (which I find not up to par) because it subborts my broadbad wireless device OUT OF THE BOX, and it works MUCH better than any version of windows (which requires driver install and unlock code).

In Ubuntu 8.10 I just plug the thing in and tell NM to connect to mobile broadband device.

Kompozer (web page design) doesn't work under Intrepid.
Sound on some games and videos bring down the sound server forcing logout/in.

As already mentioned, it's slow (for me anyway) I think mostly because the way that my ATI card is (rather isn't) supported.

If you are having good luck with the version already installed, don't fix what isn't broke.

---

### Post by Mardoct909 on 2008-11-14
I'm sure that when we come around to 9.04 coming out, everyone will say 8.10 is better for most people and less buggy.

Adding new features adds just as many bugs to an OS. When they get mopped up (mostly, anyways) it's time to add more features, thus making the next version more buggy but more featured for a while. The cycle of life.

---

### Post by crjackson on 2008-11-14
> **Mardoct909 said:**
> I'm sure that when we come around to 9.04 coming out, everyone will say 8.10 is better for most people and less buggy.

Adding new features adds just as many bugs to an OS. When they get mopped up (mostly, anyways) it's time to add more features, thus making the next version more buggy but more featured for a while. The cycle of life.

Of course there is much merit to your words, however there are issues (aka: bugs) that make the upgrade a downgrade for some people and hardware. I'm a person who almost always goes the route of near bleeding edege, but the latest release will wait on my primary machine until some of the gowing pangs go away. I fear however that most of them won't go away until 9.04 rolls out.

I love to play with new toys, but for me 8.04 is currently my old reliable. IF a few kernel patches, and update to kompozer, some PA fixes or tweaks, and video driver updates all come together for Intrepid then I'll jump.  Figure the odds of all that happening in 6 months.

Can't wait to play with 9.04 +1 :)

---

### Post by InfectedWithDrew on 2008-11-14
There was a nice article on Lifehacker a couple weeks back about the changes from Hardy to Intrepid.  Read it if you'd like:

[http://lifehacker.com/5072351/a-users-look-at-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex](http://lifehacker.com/5072351/a-users-look-at-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex)

---

### Post by Riverside on 2008-11-14
> **MasterSander said:**
> And Hardy is longer supported anyway.This statement is incorrect.  Hardy is supported on desktops until April 2011, on servers until April 2013!

---

