---
title: ".aa to .iso"
date: 2008-08-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by viklahan on 2008-08-04
I have some .aa files and want to convert them into .iso, so that I can boot up that system. Is there anyway that I can convert these .aa files into .iso files? By the way these .aa files were generated through Clonezilla. Does anyone know any way that can convert it? I am a newbie, I dnt even knw what .aa files are? I just came across 
" Generic disc image created by a disc imaging program; stores an exact replica of a hard disk or other type of media; basically an .ISO file with a different file extension." 
Anyways I would be happy if these files are converted into .iso? Thanks everyone.

And yes I'm a newbie to unix, I'm sorry if I have posted this in the wrong section.

Thanks

Vic

---

### Post by halitech on 2008-08-06
can you rename them to .iso and then see if you can mount them?

---

### Post by AdamWood on 2008-08-06
You'd probably be better off letting the mount system try to auto-detect the filesystem type unless you know it's a CD or DVD iso for sure.

Mounting on a loopback device is probably your best bet.
```

mount -o loop example.aa /home/you/dir

```

---

### Post by viklahan on 2008-08-06
Ok. But then there are 4 such files, that means I need to mount them one by one. Right! And its asking to specify the file system when using the above command. Which I did using the "mkfs.ext3". Then I used the mount -o loop filename.aa and destination directory. Anyways it shows that its mounted. Lets see how it goes wid the ISO? Shall keep u posted.

---

