---
title: "8.10 on HP DV6810us"
date: 2009-01-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jim2029 on 2009-01-22
I got it booted... But while loading the live cd, the progress bar stopped several times and the cdrom drive went quite. If I pressed the control key then it continued to load. Took about 12 mins to load the live cd.

The driver manager shows the drivers for the athros wireless card is loaded and in use, but I can't get the wifi working. I'm using a cat5 jacked into my router right now.

So how is support on the HP laptops with 8.10? I have a AMD Turion 64 x2 @ 2.0ghz, 3GB ram, nVidia7150m video, nvidia 630m chipset.

Thanks for any info.

---

### Post by Jim2029 on 2009-01-23
I did an install. Got the video working right. Says the athros wireless drivers are installed, but I still don't see my wireless card. 

The machine won't boot unless I press the crtl key during boot untill the bar stops going side to side and goes solid from left to right.

It will not shut down neather. It freezes up during shutdown.

Doesn't look good for me using this build ether...

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2009-01-23
When GRUB loads, press **Esc** and press **e** to edit the boot parameters.
Press the **down** key to highlight the 'kernel' line and press **e** again to edit that.

Append to the line:
```
 noapic irqpoll noirqdebug
```
ensure that there is a space between each boot option, and press **Enter**, then **b** to boot.

Let us know if there is any change in how your PC boots up.


Also, what type of atheros card do you have?
I suspect that there may be a driver conflict between two modules (ath_pci and ath5k) where the incorrect one is being loaded.
Can you open up a terminal and type in/post the output of these console commands?
```
lspci
```
```
lsmod | grep ath
```

Regards
Iain

---

### Post by Jim2029 on 2009-01-23
Thanks, after posting this I'll go and do that to the grub...

I think I have the athros AR5006X card.

lspci results:
00:00.0 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation MCP67 Memory Controller (rev a2)
00:01.0 ISA bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP67 ISA Bridge (rev a2)
00:01.1 SMBus: nVidia Corporation MCP67 SMBus (rev a2)
00:01.2 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation MCP67 Memory Controller (rev a2)
00:01.3 Co-processor: nVidia Corporation MCP67 Co-processor (rev a2)
00:02.0 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP67 OHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev a2)
00:02.1 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP67 EHCI USB 2.0 Controller (rev a2)
00:04.0 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP67 OHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev a2)
00:04.1 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP67 EHCI USB 2.0 Controller (rev a2)
00:06.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation MCP67 IDE Controller (rev a1)
00:07.0 Audio device: nVidia Corporation MCP67 High Definition Audio (rev a1)
00:08.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP67 PCI Bridge (rev a2)
00:09.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation MCP67 AHCI Controller (rev a2)
00:0a.0 Ethernet controller: nVidia Corporation MCP67 Ethernet (rev a2)
00:0c.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP67 PCI Express Bridge (rev a2)
00:0d.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP67 PCI Express Bridge (rev a2)
00:12.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GeForce 7150M (rev a2)
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
02:05.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Ricoh Co Ltd R5C832 IEEE 1394 Controller (rev 05)
02:05.1 SD Host controller: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C822 SD/SDIO/MMC/MS/MSPro Host Adapter (rev 22)
02:05.2 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C843 MMC Host Controller (rev 12)
02:05.3 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C592 Memory Stick Bus Host Adapter (rev 12)
02:05.4 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd xD-Picture Card Controller (rev ff)
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR242x 802.11abg Wireless PCI Express Adapter (rev 01)

and lsmod | grep ath
ath_pci                99096  0 
wlan                  211952  1 ath_pci
ath_hal               198864  1 ath_pci

thanks

---

### Post by Jim2029 on 2009-01-23
that didn't work for the bootup. i did run the 224 updates and it solved the shutdown problem. But now i have no sound... lol.

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2009-01-23
> 03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. **AR242x** 802.11abg Wireless PCI Express Adapter (rev 01)
May be more deep rooted than that. You say you have an AR5006x, but Linux is detecting an AR242x.

I don't know the logic in that, but you could try removing the module and trying the other atheros one instead.
```
sudo rmmod ath_pci
```
```
sudo modprobe ath5k
```
If you get any errors, post them.

Give it about 30 seconds for everything to sort itself out, then type in:
```
ifconfig
```
And post the output here.

Regards
Iain

---

### Post by Jim2029 on 2009-01-23
FATAL: Module ath5k not found.

thats what I get after typing in sudo modprobe ath5k

Thanks... I have no clue what I'm doing...

---

### Post by Jim2029 on 2009-01-23
My no sound is related to the nVidia video drivers that I'm using. I found another thread about it and waiting to see how they fix it...

---

### Post by Jim2029 on 2009-01-23
Sound: Music Player works. Youtube doesn't, some static crackle. Ubuntu Login sounds and other sounds don't, nothing at all.

Between the wireless and sound... Ubuntu is just having fun with he, huh? lol

---

