---
title: "Error: Unable to mount location - Failed to mount Windows share"
date: 2011-03-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by misssarahdee on 2011-03-08
I am trying to wirelessly view the shared folders on my Windows 7 PC via the home network, on my laptop running Ubuntu 10:04. In Nautilus I can see all the shared folders on the Windows PC by clicking into Network, the Windows Network, then the name of the workgroup, then the name of the PC in Windows shares on workgroup. But when I try to see the contents of any of the shared folders, I get this error message:

Unable to mount location - Failed to mount Windows share

I am trying to write my thesis and all my resources are on my PC, while I write in my study. But I need access to my extensive PDF library while I work. I keep having to get up and email things to myself! It's really  a pain in the ***.

I am pretty new to Ubuntu, and as much as I love it, I don't really know what I'm doing. 

Help please!

---

### Post by Ben Page on 2011-03-08
I'm assuming you have set up SAMBA correctly. 

You need to share your Windows shares with Ubuntu. You may have shared them, but Windows demands they be shared again if new SAMBA server appears, just share the folder with the "WORKGROUP" again. Also, you need to disable password protected sharing in "Windows Network and Sharing" menu. Here choose "Choose homegroup and sharing options" --> "Change advanced sharing settings" --> Home or Work --> check the radio button for "Turn off password protected sharing"

---

### Post by misssarahdee on 2011-03-08
I have installed SAMBA, but I'm not sure what installing it correctly would entail exactly. I have shared my Windows folders, but not since the installation of SAMBA. I will check it again and report back.

---

### Post by misssarahdee on 2011-03-08
It's working. Thanks. What a quick fix. Silly me.

---

### Post by Ben Page on 2011-03-08
> **misssarahdee said:**
> It's working. Thanks. What a quick fix. Silly me.

Please, mark as "Solved" with the thread tools ;)

---

### Post by hacksquat on 2011-03-08
Just to be clear... 

Your problem was you were unable to connect to a windows share from your ubuntu machine.

You already had existing windows shares before you installed ubuntu, and were unable to connect to a windows share from ubuntu.

You un-shared and re-shared the directories on your windows box, and it worked?

Thanks

---

### Post by misssarahdee on 2011-03-09
I've had Ubuntu installed for ages. before I even installed Windows 7, but I hadn't tried to share folders before. 

But that's pretty much exactly it.

I shared the Windows folders on the Windows PC. Then I installed Samba. But I still couldn't mount the folders, even though I could see them. But I was confused because I had already shared them and I couldn't think what else I might need to do. But it turns out that you have to share your Windows folders AFTER you've set up Samba, even if you shared them before Samba install. I went back and did it again and everything works fine now.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2011-03-09
What's fascinating about your description is that Samba ( the samba package itself ) is not required to access a remote share. Samba is required to share a resource on your Linux box to others on your network ( i.e., Windows ) , not the other way around.

You need smbclient ( part of the samba family but a separate install ) to access a remote share.

And if the Windows server had to "reshare" all of it's shares every time a new client was introduced to the LAN it would never be used in a corporate environment.

---

### Post by Ben Page on 2011-03-09
> **Morbius1 said:**
> What's fascinating about your description is that Samba ( the samba package itself ) is not required to access a remote share. Samba is required to share a resource on your Linux box to others on your network ( i.e., Windows ) , not the other way around.

You need smbclient ( part of the samba family but a separate install ) to access a remote share.

And if the Windows server had to "reshare" all of it's shares every time a new client was introduced to the LAN it would never be used in a corporate environment.

This looks like to be the case with Win7. When I introduce a new Linux PC to my network (no matter what distro it is using), I need to re-share my shares with the Workgroup. Linux PC sees the Win7 PC shares, but cannot access them until they are shared again. This is when your are using "simple sharing". Win7 PC sees Linux PCs as a new client, therefore it needs to authenticate them. Same goes for Win7 to Win7 PC if password protected sharing is used, you have to enter the autogenerated homegroup password to be able to access the shared folders. SAMBA does not support Windows password protected sharing. So this is, I guess, some kind of compensation...
On XP this is not the case.

---

### Post by emptybb on 2011-03-10
i had the same problem and i solved it when i turned off windows firewall...

---

### Post by rdrewd2 on 2012-07-22
I fixed this problem by adding "Everyone" to security permissions on windows machine - right click on drive or folder you want to share then click  - properties\security\edit\add\advanced\Find Now\Everyone\Ok\Ok\apply...

---

