---
title: "64 bit 10.10 locks up - replaced tons of parts, must be Ubuntu."
date: 2010-10-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pHreaksYcle on 2010-10-20
My system boots up with this line, twice: 
> modprobe: FATAL: Could not load /lib/modules/2.6.35-22-generic/modules.dep: No such file or directory

After a seemingly random amount of time, but usually while writing to the disk, my system will freeze on the current display and not allow me to move my mouse or press keys. The lights on my keyboard flash. I have no choice but to shutdown the entire system manually. This does not happen on Windows 7. I am using an Intel q6600, not overclocked. P35 chipset mobo with an ATi 5770 and 4GB of GSkill DDR2 RAM. I have a 750w powersupply - more than enough to handle the things I'm running.

This started happening a few weeks ago. I've since replaced my hard drive, my graphics card, and tonight, just replaced my entire freaking motherboard. Did a RAM test for 48 hours and it came back clean - I'm losing my mind.

Ubuntu forums, please help. I'm using 64 bit 10.10, and...it's killing me.

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2010-10-20
> **pHreaksYcle said:**
> After a seemingly random amount of time, my system will freeze on the current display and not allow me to move my mouse or press keys. The lights on my keyboard flash. I have no choice but to shutdown the entire system manually. This does not happen on Windows 7. I am using an Intel q6600, not overclocked. P35 chipset mobo with an ATi 5770 and 4GB of GSkill DDR2 RAM. I have a 750w powersupply - more than enough to handle the things I'm running.

This started happening a few weeks ago. I've since replaced my hard drive, my graphics card, and tonight, just replaced my entire freaking motherboard. Did a RAM test for 48 hours and it came back clean - I'm losing my mind.

Ubuntu forums, please help. I'm using 64 bit 10.10, and...it's killing me.

Which graphics driver are you using?

---

### Post by pHreaksYcle on 2010-10-20
The driver I have enabled right now is ATi Proprietary.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2010-10-20
Howdy,

I can feel your pain... ;)  

Usually the first thing to replace is the power supply.  However, you say the machine works with Win7 - therefore is is unlikely to be a hardware failure.

What happens with a different distribution?  I would try OpenSuse running off a CDROM or memory stick.  If that works, then play with the kernel boot parameters in Ubuntu and if that doesn't help, change to an alternate kernel.

---

### Post by pHreaksYcle on 2010-10-20
Anyone have an idea what logs I should be looking at after something stupid like this happens?

---

### Post by pHreaksYcle on 2010-10-21
Added new info in original post - noticed a line that pops up on boot that could be my root problem.

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-10-21
Probably no help to you, but I'd try a different distro, or at least a different version of ubuntu. Just to see if it is 10.10 thats causing the problem.

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2010-10-21
> **pHreaksYcle said:**
> Added new info in original post - noticed a line that pops up on boot that could be my root problem.

There is a launchpad bug report on those error messages. They seem to be saying that it shouldn't cause the sort of side effect you are having but who knows:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/642421?comments=all]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/642421?comments=all")

---

### Post by GabrielYYZ on 2010-10-21
> **pHreaksYcle said:**
> Anyone have an idea what logs I should be looking at after something stupid like this happens?

check the kernel/syslog logs and see what it says there. i've found the logs in ubuntu to be quite useful for troubleshooting.

---

### Post by AbdRahim on 2011-03-13
Both Fedora and Ubuntu 64 bit versions lock up regularly on machines with multicore Intel processors. I had it on the core duo and now on the i3. The 32 bit versions are quite stable. However installing some software is a bit of a pain, since the software recognizes the machine as 64 bit and give wrong architecture errors when trying to install the 32 bit versions.

---

