---
title: "8.10 &gt; 9.04 &gt; black screen"
date: 2010-04-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by davexnet on 2010-04-26
Hello, I did the dist upgrade, but upon reboot,
I'm left with a black screen and a login pronpt.

After I login with my userid id and password, I get a prompt
that looks like this:
davexnet@davexnet-desktop:


The install seems to be complete and went without error
(or so I thought) please advise on what to attempt here.
Thanks,
Dave

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-04-26
Type your username and password to login, then type **startx**

---

### Post by user1397 on 2010-04-26
if startx doesn't work for some reason, you could try typing 'gdm' which should take you to the graphical login page.

---

### Post by davexnet on 2010-04-26
Hello - thanks for your responses. "startx" did start the 
graphical interface, after about 45 seconds.  There was a popup
on the screen that said:
"Panel encountered a problem while loading.
OAFIID: Gnome-FastUserSwitch Applet-
Do you want to delete the applet from your config?"  (I typed "no")

Some things seem to be missing.  For example, under "Applications"
Add/Remove is not there.  
Under "System", the list seems a little short -
This is what is present:
Authorization, HW Drivers, Language Support, Log Viewer,
Network Tools, Nvidia X Server, Printing, Services, Synaptic,
Time & Date, Users and Groups. - Seems like it's missing 3 or 4 items?

Please advise.  Is it possible to "repair" the system?

---

### Post by quadproc on 2010-04-26
> **davexnet said:**
> Hello, I did the dist upgrade, but upon reboot,
I'm left with a black screen and a login pronpt.

After I login with my userid id and password, I get a prompt
that looks like this:
davexnet@davexnet-desktop:

This sounds like a driver/X windows compatibility problem.  The symptoms indicate that X windows is not running.

There was a drastic change in the way that X windows is designed between the versions used in Ubuntu 8.10 and 9.04.  I don't know what kind of graphics hardware you have but you can look in your xorg.conf file to see which driver is specified:
grep "river" < /etc/X11/xorg.conf
You might want to replace whatever driver is specified with "vesa" to get your system running so that you can make proper repairs.  Then you can go back and remove and reinstall the original driver.

You may also have other issues relating to the newer release but at least they will be easier to deal with when you have working graphics.

quadproc

---

### Post by Lightstar on 2010-04-26
happened to me a long time ago, I also had to use 'startx'

once I was in, I still had a few problems, I ran " sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg " in the terminal, that fixed it.

This wouldn't fix missing items from menus though, if you can backup your stuff, I'd maybe wait 3-4 more days and do a clean install of 10.04.

---

### Post by davexnet on 2010-04-26
Hi quadproc,just before you posted this response I made some progress.
The graphical interface now starts up automatically.  Looking under
"system"/"hardware drivers" shows that the recommended Nvidia driver
is installed and running.

I opened up Synaptic at the "residual config" page.  There were perhaps
10 or 15 items highlighted by a small red icon (looks like the sun) next
to them - what does this mean.  Are they default items that should be installed?

I selected a few of them and selected install, and as long as it didn't 
say anything about removing packages, I applied the changes.
The "add/remove" applet is back (application) and so is "software sources"
(system/admin).  There are still some items left in this window.
(I'm enclosing an image)  You can see the 3 items identified with the small red icon, for example, FFmpeg utiltiy library.
Thanks for any further info - (here's the image)
[[[IMG]http://img20.imageshack.us/img20/2333/screenshotsynapticpacka.png[/IMG]](http://img20.imageshack.us/i/screenshotsynapticpacka.png/)

Uploaded with [ImageShack.us](http://imageshack.us)

---

### Post by Lightstar on 2010-04-26
> **davexnet said:**
> Hi quadproc,just before you posted this response I made some progress.
The graphical interface now starts up automatically.  Looking under
"system"/"hardware drivers" shows that the recommended Nvidia driver
is installed and running.

I opened up Synaptic at the "residual config" page.  There were perhaps
10 or 15 items highlighted by a small red icon (looks like the sun) next
to them - what does this mean.  Are they default items that should be installed?


those icons are the Ubuntu Icon :P
I think it simply means they are packages maintained by the Ubuntu Team.

---

### Post by davexnet on 2010-04-26
Thanks for the response. Can I infer that those "ubuntu" items
should actually be installed and not in "residual config"  ?
 The system, as far as I can see with my limited
experience, is working.  Is there a way to check that everything
that a new install of the OS would have is actually installed?
The 3 items marked in "residual install" dont look critical -
For example, libifp4 - comminicate with iRiver devices.

Does Ubuntu have a "repair" facility, analogous to Windows repair install?
This is a process that rebuilds the system side of things, but leaves
installed apps and user data intact.

I expected the dist upgrade to put back system settings as if 9.04
was being installed clean - but it didn't do that.  For example,
the blue Tooth service, disabled in 8.10 was still disabled.
If it had been a fresh install, it would have been enabled.

Under System/Administration I now have the following items.  Anything
missing?
Authorizations
Hardware Drivers
Language Support
Log File Viewer
Logon Window
Network Tools
Nvidia X Server Settings
Printing
Services
Software Sources
Synaptic
System Monitor
Time andDate
Update Manager
Users and Groups

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-04-26
You can try installing or reinstalling the ubuntu-desktop metapackage, which should pull in all the default desktop packages.

---

### Post by davexnet on 2010-04-26
Thanks Mike - I'll look into that.

---

