---
title: "10.4 give a &quot;trouble&quot; display"
date: 2010-06-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Howleon on 2010-06-09
I try to install Ubuntu 10.4 with the official DVD on a old ACER Aspire 1712 SMI (from the Acer Aspire 1710 family).
The hardware settings are : P4 2.8 GHz 512 Mo 80 Go NVIDIA GeForce FX Go5700). During the test in Live Mode I got a display that I should qualified as "troubled" with very bad colors. I check the display in the config and it's set to 1280 X 1024 that is actually the right sizing for this PC. I test other display config but even if the font change the troubled display is still there.
I see on a french forum that a guy get the same problem on a ACER Aspire 1710 and to solve it (let's say to get a work around), he install 9.10 and then migrate to 10.04.
As I get the officiel 10.04 DVD I would like to get a less weird solution.
Any of you heard about this?
Regards,

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-06-09
Can you show us a screenshot of what you are talking about?

Just press the PrtSc key, then log in to the forum and attach the file to your post.

---

### Post by Howleon on 2010-06-10
Thanks for your reply.

I will manage to do it tonight

---

### Post by Howleon on 2010-06-10
I saw on a french forum a guy talking about a similar problem on a Mac and he mentionned

" I need to tuned a bit xorg.conf with the values of HorizSync and VertRefresh."

This reallys speaks to me regarding the kind of problem that I have

Do you have an idea to tune this xorg.conf ?

EDIT : OK I found this
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973)
I will take a look

---

### Post by Howleon on 2010-06-10
Here is the screenshot

---

### Post by Howleon on 2010-06-10
OK I have activate the drivers of my NVidia card and now it's OK.:guitar::guitar:

---

