---
title: ".sh running on terminal automatically closes"
date: 2014-01-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tastefuldeath on 2014-01-14
I've encountered this problem before, but I forgot how I have fixed it exactly. I think I changed the perms but I don't remember the specifics. 

I have changed the perms for the folder and the files inside:

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/sRaXhWJ.png[/IMG]

But it still automatically closes. I tried going to the file directory on the terminal, and then I do this:

> kirsten@StinkyDudels-eM350:~/Apps/Digital-linux-x86$ bash Digital.shDigital.sh: line 20: /home/kirsten/Apps/Digital-linux-x86/lib/python: Permission denied
Digital.sh: line 20: exec: /home/kirsten/Apps/Digital-linux-x86/lib/python: cannot execute: Permission denied
 

I'm not sure what's the matter now. Here's the contents of Digital.sh, if it helps:

> #!/bin/sh

# We assume Darwin means Mac OS X. Sorry, Darwin guys.
if [ "x`uname -s`" = "xDarwin" ]; then
    dir=`dirname "$0"`
    dir=`cd "$dir"; pwd`
    base=`basename "$0"`


    export RENPY_LAUNCHER_DIR="$dir"


    if [ -e "$dir/${base%.sh}.app/Contents/MacOS/${base%.sh}" ] ; then
        launcher="$dir/${base%.sh}.app/Contents/MacOS/${base%.sh}"
    else
        launcher="$dir/${base%.sh}.app/Contents/MacOS/Ren'Py Launcher"
    fi


    exec "$launcher" "${0%.sh}.py" "$@"
fi


exec "`dirname \"$0\"`/lib/python" "-OO" "${0%.sh}.py" "$@"

Any help would be appreciated!

SOLVED: Had to set the python file to allow executable file to be run. >.> :(

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-01-14
It closes because the script crashes. It crashes because the user doesn't have permission to execute the file **/home/kirsten/Apps/Digital-linux-x86/lib/python**. I've got no idea why this package wants it's own version of the python interpreter (because that's what it looks like), but to make this run you have to add execute permission (for yourself at least) to the aforementioned file.

---

### Post by tastefuldeath on 2014-01-14
:S fixed. Why does it have to be that way? I had to manually change to set it to execute for all those? D: FYI, this file is uhm xD a visual novel game. Is there an easier way to get all those in a folder to be executed?

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-01-15
Using wildcards or recursively adding permissions (via the terminal, by clicking "Change permissions for enclosed files", selecting multiple files maybe) may be slightly faster. It is possible to store permissions with the files in an archive, but it looks like it wasn't done here.

You may mark this thread as solved. Click "Thread tools" at the top of the page.

---

