---
title: "11.04 Memory problem"
date: 2011-09-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Kip00 on 2011-09-01
Hi everyone.
I am having problems with my home folder, when i use the disk usage analyzer it says i have 33.2GB available but when I look at the bottom of my home folder it says i only have 882.8 MB

Is this due to memory grouping or something?

Thanks in advance for help

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-09-01
Could you post the result of this command?
```
$ df -h
```
Regards.

---

### Post by Kip00 on 2011-09-01
Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/loop0            8.5G  7.2G  881M  90% /
none                  935M  668K  934M   1% /dev
none                  942M  284K  941M   1% /dev/shm
none                  942M  224K  941M   1% /var/run
none                  942M     0  942M   0% /var/lock
/dev/sda2             140G  108G   32G  78% /host
/dev/sr0              1.8G  1.8G     0 100% /media/New Century

There you go
Thanks for quick response

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-09-01
You have just 881M left on your / partition. The one that has 32GB free is one called /host (what do you have in there?). If your files are located where they usually are (/home/youruser), you will be suffering for low space for user files.

You need to get more space by either moving your home to another partition, or by resizing the / partition to give you some breath.

Regards.

---

### Post by Kip00 on 2011-09-01
Thanks for the help

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-09-01
/host contains the host Windows drive in a Wubi install. That's where the Windows drive is mounted. Disk Usage Analyser also adds up all the mounted drives, whereas the file manager only counts the amount of space available in that particular directory where you are.

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-09-01
I'm afraid I'm not very familiar with Wubi installs. I can't give you more advice. Let's hope someone else pitch in.

Regards.

EDIT: may be this [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1625371") would help you.

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-09-02
It's possible to [resize]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1625371") a Wubi install. Or you could partition and [migrate]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519354") to a direct install.

Or of course you could also backup data and reinstall. (This will completely delete the existing Wubi install).

---

