---
title: "strange nameserver for localhost"
date: 2013-04-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by some1at127001 on 2013-04-08
Hello!

I am a new Ubuntu 13.04 user and the first things I want to say is **Congratulations**! **13.04 is a fantastic distro**. I tried Ubuntu two or three years ago and it was not what I was expecting, but this one rocks:* it's fast, it's cool, it's EASY*. To me it's the first of the Linux distros that can go against any MSW and which can address beginners and make them feel comfortable on a Linux machine.

One of the first questions I am going to post here is related to /etc/resolv.conf

As far as I know, the names server should be 127.0.0.1 for localhost, but I noticed that mine is different:

```
~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
```

I don't know if it's wrong or right, but I was wondering why is this change, because I'm sure on my Darwin (OS X) the name server is 127.0.0.1

If there's anything wrong, how can I change it back?

Thanks a lot and keep up the great work!

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-04-08
Hi some1at127001. Welcome to the forums ):P

It used to be 127.0.0.1, but since version 12.10 got changed to allow compatibility for other dns services (mainly proper dnsmasq). Read about it [here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuDesktop#QuantalQuetzal.2BAC8-ReleaseNotes.2BAC8-CommonInfrastructure-1.Networking").

Hope it helps.

Come here often and have fun.
Regards.

---

### Post by some1at127001 on 2013-04-08
Thank you!

Due to this change, it seems I should have registered with a slightly different name on Ubuntu Forums. :)

I have another question. During the installation of 13.04, I didn't write correctly (and I also didn't notice that) the name of the host system.

```
etc$ cat hosts
127.0.1.1    machne
```

There is an "i" missing. The *Details* app in the *System settings* also shows the* Device name* as *"machne"*

Modifying the /etc/hosts and /etc/hostname files is enough, or do I have to use the *hostname* command to change the hostname of my system? Or maybe there's something more complicated? :)

Thank you and have a nice day!

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-04-08
There is another (complicated) way to change it, but is usually involves to change all in the fly.

If you change the value of those files, and restart, you should be OK.

Regards.

---

