---
title: "32 or 64?"
date: 2012-01-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Airycat on 2012-01-28
I downloaded the Ubuntu 32 bit program and have installed it, but I have questions about it. I had Windows 7 64 bit and somewhere here (I didn't bookmark it :( ) I read that when it says 32 is recommended it was unclear and, as I understand it, I could have gotten the 64 bit. I think some of my programs work better with the 64 bit, but I'm not particularly knowledgeable about that. 
Is there a reason not to install the 64 bit? 
If I want to have the 64 bit OS do I need to do a complete reinstall/overwite?

TIA,
~Faith

---

### Post by BC59 on 2012-01-28
At this very moment there is no reason to not install 64bit. Now is recommended to use it instead of the 32bit-if your computer accept it of course.

---

### Post by Dry Lips on 2012-01-28
> **BC59 said:**
> At this very moment there is no reason to not install 64bit. Now is recommended to use it instead of the 32bit-if your computer accept it of course.

**+1!** As long as your CPU supports 64bit, there is no reason to run 32-bit Ubuntu.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2012-01-28
> **Dry Lips said:**
> **+1!** As long as your CPU supports 64bit, there is no reason to run 32-bit Ubuntu.

+1 again.

The 32-bit version is recommended because it's going to work for everybody, regardless if their system is 32-bit or 64-bit. And of course people who have no idea what such things even mean would get into troubles if the 64-bit version was the recommended one.

Anyway, what kind of benefits, if any, you get from running a 64 bit system depends pretty much on what kind of tasks you do (and of course if you happen to have more than 4GB or RAM, in which case 64-bit version would work better even though you actually can use all the RAM with a PAE-enabled 32-bit kernel).

The most common tasks that benefit from 64-bit computing would be audio and video enconding, video & 3D rendering and some scientific computing tasks. Basic desktop use like web browsing or word processing don't need to handle large numbers or high precisions so they will not work any better on 64-bit system than on a 32-bit one.

64-bit system will use a bit more memory, but that's pretty well balanced by having more CPU registries available, so unless you have very small amount of RAM there really is no benefit in using a 32-bit system if you can use a 64-bit one instead.

...and sadly, you can't convert a system from 32-bit one to 64-bit one, so you'll need to reinstall. If you haven't used the Ubuntu install too much yet, you might want to do that now. But on the other hand if it feels like too much work, you could also keep the 32-bit one for now, and make a fresh install of the 64-bit version when the next Ubuntu version is released.

---

### Post by Double.J on 2012-01-28
As the others have said really :)

12.04 will be 64bit default - and you can't upgrade 32 to 64, so it's probably best to go 64... unless you've only got 2/3 GB of RAM - but if windows is running 64 bit that's not very likely! :)

I think most areas have been covered [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1911989")

Hope it helps :)

---

### Post by tersogar on 2012-01-28
Yes you have to do a clean install in order to change to 64 bit.

---

### Post by Airycat on 2012-01-28
Thank you all!! This is the information I needed.

---

