---
title: ".bash_profile"
date: 2012-01-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by joetait on 2012-01-28
I was reading [http://linuxcommand.org/wss0020.php](http://linuxcommand.org/wss0020.php) as I found it on one of the stickies and was generally trying to learn more about command line use in Ubuntu/GNULinux. Anyway, I don't seem to have a .bash_profile (thought I do have .bashrc) file. Any idea why this might be - the site and other places I look it up seem to imply it is a standard file everyone should have.

Any help would be much appreciated

Thanks

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2012-01-28
It's called .profile

---

### Post by Lars Noodén on 2012-01-28
You do have a [font=Courier New].profile[/font], which is for bash, along with [font=Courier New].bashrc[/font].

---

### Post by mcduck on 2012-01-28
You have ~/.profile instead.

There are many differences between various Linux distributions. In this case the difference is because unlike most distributions, Ubuntu actually uses two different shells, Bash and Dash, depending on the situation. ~/.bash_profle would be used for non-interactive shells, but on Ubuntu a non-interactive shell would actually run Dash instead of Bash.

~/bash_profile would only be used by Bash, while ~/.profile is used by both Bash and Dash.

(Dash has less features than Dash has, but is also a lot more lightweight and is capable of running all the system startup scripts and such quicker than Bash would. When it became the default system shell on Ubuntu the startup & login times were significally reduced. )

---

### Post by joetait on 2012-01-28
Okies, thanks very much everyone :D

---

