---
title: "10.04 - make a DVD from this?"
date: 2010-06-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-09
I have a home movie in .wmv format, a txt file and a bunch of jpegs that I would like to burn onto a DVD as (1) the movie (2) the introductory text (3) the jpegs as a slide show.

I've used Brasero in the past for all kinds of things, and was just wondering what I might need to do so I can burn a DVD with the above that will play in a normal DVD player on a TV.

Thanks in advance for the input!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-06-09
You could try pitivi from Apps>sound & video. Not sure if it burns to dvd though.

The other video editor is openshot in synaptic.

---

### Post by ron999 on 2010-06-09
Hi
There's a program in the Ubuntu repo named '**dvd-slideshow**'.
This will make a VOB file from a bunch of jpg files, with a soundtrack too if you like.

I'm not sure how to go about incorporating the slideshow on the DVD with your movie, but hey, baby steps.
:confused:

EDIT
I used information from this blog:-[http://dinsdalepiranha.wordpress.com/2007/10/16/how-to-make-a-video-for-youtube-with-linux/#comment-1025]("http://dinsdalepiranha.wordpress.com/2007/10/16/how-to-make-a-video-for-youtube-with-linux/#comment-1025")

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-09
I've had to use Microsoft Windows Movie Maker as there are some things it supports that OpenShot doesn't (I do use OpenShot on other things).  I'll take a look at dvd-slideshow today to see what it is like.

Thanks to both of you!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Zill on 2010-06-09
anewguy:  Kino (in the repositories) may do what you want.  You should be able to import the wmv file to use as a basis for the video.  Then you should be able to paste your text and jpg's into Kino "scenes".  You can define how long each scene shows for and move them around into your desired order.

Kino can export the composite file in DV format which can then be converted into an ISO image and burnt to a DVD suitable for a standard home player.

I use netyire's python script in post #2 of [thread 320389]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=320389") to convert the DV file to an ISO image file.

---

### Post by Tholley on 2010-06-09
You might also try DeVeDe, you can add multiple files, then format into an ISO image.
 
Then I like to use K3B to burn the ISO to disc.
 
Works great every time for me.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-09
Thanks everyone!  I think I have enough to play with now to get something to work.  Thanks for all the great suggestions!

Dave ;)

---

