---
title: "9.10 install fine, but oh how I wish I'd thought it out first!"
date: 2009-11-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-11-13
I got the 9.10 CD in the mail already today (*VERY* fast!).  I copied what I wanted from my 9.04 install, repartitioned with a separate partition for /home, /, and swap and then installed 9.10 so I could get the new file system.

For me, at least, the install went fine - no problems at all.  I'm not sure yet on the speed, but that may be due to the CD being the 32-bit desktop and I was running the 64-bit in 9.04.  Time will tell on that one, but for now I wanted the 32-bit anyway since I was having trouble with somethings not working in 64-bit (not Ubuntu's fault, just the software wasn't made for running on 64-bit OS).

I knew that for dialup, wvdial was gone and that I would need to configure ppp and use pon and poff, so I was prepared for that.

Now here's something that is *NOT* Ubuntu's fault - instead it is *MY* fault for not thinking out a little further:

[INDENT]I used to have broadband internet, and that is what I used to download, install and update 9.04.  I have since moved and no longer have broadband, but old-fashioned dial-up.  You know, when you do something as simple as enabled more sources in the package manager and reload it takes for ever on dial-up.  Add to that all the things I want installed besides the normal install, and I can see I'll be dreaming for days of still having broadband access!! :) [/INDENT]

So, count me as a +1 in the successful column for 9.10 so far, noting a wiped my drive and did a new install, not an upgrade.

Dave :)

---

### Post by Paqman on 2009-11-14
Yeah, Ubuntu on dialup would be pretty painful. If you go to Software Sources you can mess about with the settings for updates, to try and keep them down to a manageable level. The security ones are crucial, but apart from that there's no rule that says you have to update a package that is working fine.

---

