---
title: "9.04 unable to start after program removal"
date: 2009-06-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Peterfc on 2009-06-09
Hi All

I have updated my system as and when updates are available. I have spent many hours trying to get Skype to work. Like others my problem was with the sound.

Today i tried again but i got the same problem , This time i decided to remove all sound programs Mplayer, Movie player,  Rhythmbox and more. I wanted to install one program and try Skype if that failed install another etc. I did a reboot before i started but nothing happened Ubuntu failed to start. I could get started by using one of the other Ubuntus in the startup list 8.10. The ones from before update to Jaunty. I am happy to do a fresh install but i need urgently my emails. Yes i know what a stupid thing i did but i wanted to start by trying by installing different programs for sound settings. 

Thanks for reading this sorry tail.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-06-09
assuming you are using evolution, emails (i think) are stored at /home/ep/.evolution

boot from a live CD, and copy that folder from your hard drive to a thumb drive or somewhere else. once you copy them over, look for them on the thumb drive to verify that you where successfull. 


for me to get skype sound to work (9.04 fresh install, amd64), all i had to do was change the 'sound in', 'sound out', etc to 'pulse' and not 'default'.

---

### Post by Peterfc on 2009-06-09
Thanks i will try that when i get home from work.

---

