---
title: ".Trash-ubuntu folder on root level of windows C: drive"
date: 2008-07-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by slipman518 on 2008-07-01
I'm running a windows XP rig at work. Recently things have gotten weird. Microsoft Office apps refuse to open, telling me there are missing DLLs, and the same thing yesterday with winamp not starting citing a missing DLL. 

On the root level of my C: drive (windows only; i'm not running ubuntu on this machine) there is a folder called .Trash-ubuntu with a bunch of MS office .DLL files in it. 

There is also a autoexec.bat.olg file on the root level of the C: drive.

I have no idea where this came from, and am looking for what could have caused it. What creates the .Trash-ubuntu folder and why would it appear on the root level of my C: drive? Any ideas?

Also, what is a .olg file?

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2008-07-01
Looks like somebody deleted the files with the Ubuntu Live CD.

---

### Post by sydbat on 2008-07-01
I just did a quick check at Trend Micro and Symantec and it does not appear to be virus/malware related (which could be bad press for Ubuntu/Linux). 

To your knowledge, has anyone used this computer other than yourself?

---

### Post by slipman518 on 2008-07-01
> **sydbat said:**
> 
To your knowledge, has anyone used this computer other than yourself?
 Not to my knowledge, but that is what I'm trying to find out. 

It appears that someone may have booted my machine running the ubuntu install cd & deleted the files. Except not all of them got deleted - they got moved to the .Ubuntu-trash folder. I'm just trying to confirm this & find out why the .Ubuntu-trash folder got put where it did.

---

