---
title: "12.04 or 14.04? hmmm"
date: 2014-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by boyo1991 on 2014-05-11
so right now I am running on ubuntu 12.04, and am debating on updating to 14.04. Everything works fine on my system. I've seen people say that I should wait till july when I'll get the notification, but I'm always interested in the newest version lol.

I have a full boot disc, I didnt use wubi. (Wubi is actually how I got into linux..) So if it doesnt work out, I can always just re install right? But then, is it worth it to upgrade? Does anyone have a "whats new?" link I could get?

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-05-11
Hello!

Honestly?  Since 12.04 is supported until 2017,  don't rush.  Certainly don't bother until the first point release of 14.04.

If it ain't broke ...

---

### Post by Doug S on 2014-05-11
> **boyo1991 said:**
> Does anyone have a "whats new?" link I could get?[https://help.ubuntu.com/14.04/ubuntu-help/whats-new.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/14.04/ubuntu-help/whats-new.html)

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-05-12
No need to rush really, if it is there and working and kept up to-date.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-05-12
> **QIII said:**
> Hello!

Honestly?  Since 12.04 is supported until 2017,  don't rush.  Certainly don't bother until the first point release of 14.04.

If it ain't broke ...
+1
> **boyo1991 said:**
> so right now I am running on ubuntu 12.04, and am debating on updating to 14.04. Everything works fine on my system. 

Keep debating.
Personally, though I have both 12.04 and 14.04 installed, moving my main system up is something I won't even begin to consider thinking about until July, at the earliest.
You've got 3 years, and a whole 'nother LTS(16.04) before you need to upgrade.

In the interim, though, read up on whatever you can.
Be it reviews or even testimonial-type stuff here.

---

### Post by jdeca57 on 2014-05-12
But on the other hand, 14.04 already seems stable. No need to rush, but no need to be extremely cautious neither. It's going to depend on specific applications you might use, but 'plain vanilla' certainly works.

---

### Post by boyo1991 on 2014-05-12
thanks guys i appreciate it. ill stick to 12.04 till july!

---

### Post by veddox on 2014-05-12
If you're looking for absolute stability, that's probably a wise choice.

However, having upgraded to 14.04 myself recently, I can't say I regret it. Upgrading and getting the system back to working condition doesn't take long (~2 hrs work for me), and Trusty is a very pleasant OS. It is also quite stable. (Although I have encountered a bug that freezes up the screen for a minute or so for no apparent reason, but that doesn't happen very often, and so is quite bearable.)

So like I said, if you want your system to be absolutely stable, hang around with 12.04 till July. If you don't mind a minor glitch here or there and like to have the newest version, I'd go for the update.

---

### Post by lile001 on 2014-05-12
I made the mistake of migrating from 12.04 LTS just recently, and the upgrade broke the computer.  Don't mess with it unless you have to.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2014-05-12
Hi

You do have the option of imaging the partition with 12.04 - or even the entire disc for that matter - from a LiveCD/USB and then upgrading.

You can then roll back to the image you have taken if there are any problems.

This does require a certain amount of knowledge, but if you have the technical skills, then this can provide a failsafe method of upgrading.

This is the technique that i generally use, although this time i performed a fresh install of 14.04. I still have my 13.10 installation to fall back on while i am still testing 14.04 though. That 13.10 installation has been in place upgraded since 12.04.

As for my server, i wont even consider upgrading that until well after the first point release has been released.

Kind regards

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-05-12
i had two PC. one was laptop with 13.04 and then 13.10--->14.04 less and less things worked on it. :-( in 14.04 many buttons are not recognised eventhough they all work on 12.04. however desktop is much more responsive.

the other one had sound issues and i can't figure out what is wrong. it had 12.04 and i was hoping after testing 14.04 live that this was resolved. it wasn't and i now think it could be hardware issue or it is still misconfigured hardware by kernel. again desktop is a lot more responsive though it does take longer to load (on startup). for some reason samba is a lot slower.

i am using Kubuntu.

---

### Post by boyo1991 on 2014-05-12
i can reinstall 12.04, im not too worried about my data, if i really wanted to back that up i could. some people talk about just a minor glitch, and some say they were happy with the upgrade, and others were wishing they hadnt, well i could always just as easily reinstall ubuntu 12.04 if need be... i think ill keep to 12.04 if its not very different..

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-05-13
More and more things in 14.04 appear to be broken as more and more bugs are being filed. To name a few: devices such as cameras no longer recognized, function keys not recognized for some laptops, openvpn not working, VNC not working etc etc. The people who tell you that it is stable and solid are lucky because their use cases don't involve the broken features.. If you have something that is working well, why rush to update? I am happily on 13.10, I install 14.04 on an external hd just for testing and getting updates and bug fixes, I will definitely wait til July when 13.10 reaches eol to replace it.

---

### Post by John_Maloon on 2014-05-13
I upgraded and have not had one issue. I might be just lucky.

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2014-05-13
I installed 14.04  both my laptop and desktop although i used a clean install on both.Very happy with the results; seems faster and easier to use. The only regret I have is Cinnamon DE is still not available.
I would suggest you install on a liveUSB and just try it out and see if there are any issues preventing upgrading. I would suggest if you install 14.04 you back everything up and do a clean install

---

