---
title: "10.10 audio lag"
date: 2011-02-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bizeball on 2011-02-11
For some reason out of the blue my audio starting lagging. No matter what program I use to play audio, when I first open it up the lag starts. The easy fix I have been doing is just hitting the stop button on the player, then I move the bar that marks the position I am at in the song a little back or forward, then hit play. When I do this the lag stops and the song plays fine. It use to work fine, out of no where this problem occurred.

---

### Post by ivanovnegro on 2011-02-11
What audioplayer are you using?
Did you change the settings of the sound output in some way?

---

### Post by bizeball on 2011-02-11
I use Rhythm Box. I haven't changed my audio setting, at least as far as I know. What default settings should I use?

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-02-11
When you say it is lagging, do you mean:

   *  You press play, but the music starts only after a delay?
or
   *  The music plays 'slowed down' (slow speed)?

---

### Post by bizeball on 2011-02-12
The music doesn't play, the bar moves, but it is really choppy. It slows down my entire computer. The mouse lags, opening,closing, and moving windows lags.Once I hit stop on the player, and adjust the bar and hit play it runs smoothly again and the music plays

---

### Post by castelinop on 2011-02-21
> **bizeball said:**
> For some reason out of the blue my audio starting lagging. No matter what program I use to play audio, when I first open it up the lag starts. The easy fix I have been doing is just hitting the stop button on the player, then I move the bar that marks the position I am at in the song a little back or forward, then hit play. When I do this the lag stops and the song plays fine. It use to work fine, out of no where this problem occurred.

I have the same problem too. I am using VLC player and have even tried Audacious but still the same issue. The music file has no problem playing on Windows. I haven't found a solution for it so far.

---

