---
title: "Ubu 10.04.2 server SSH/apache problem?"
date: 2014-04-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by givecake on 2014-04-04
Hi all,

I just cloned an old 10.04.2 server, because there's a custom software setup on there that I haven't had much luck replicating on a newer ubuntu OS. I used clonezilla and put the image file directly onto a USB hard drive. After all the process, which went ahead as planned (without any problems), I restarted the server and went back to my desktop. I first tried to access the server via apache by using it's IP address in my browser, with the appropriate URL extension for the custom software, but that didn't work as usual.
I then tried to SSH with Putty into the server, but it failed saying: "Network error: Connection timed out"
I thought there might be a problem with SSH, but I checked and it was running fine on port 22, which had a big "LISTEN" attached to it. The process was running fine too. I also checked ifconfig, and it had the old IP address there, which means it should have worked right?

Well.. now I'm stumped, and I don't have enough experience to know what to do. Anyone have any ideas?

GC

[IMG]http://oi58.tinypic.com/ormahk.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by givecake on 2014-04-04
Sorry guys.. It turned out to be a loose RJ45. Unbelievable.

---

### Post by PartisanEntity on 2014-04-04
Hehe I have had something similar happen to me on a couple occasions. The cable that I use to my router is broken and loose and likes to fall out after we have vacuumed the floor. Nowadays it's the first thing I check when I have network issues and 9 times out of 10 that's the problem :)

---

