---
title: "8.10 64 Bit vs 32 Bit"
date: 2008-12-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by WileyGaia on 2008-12-11
Hi
What is the difference between the 32 bit and 64 bit? Context: "Absolute Beginner" running a stand alone home PC to pick up email, skype, and a little spreadsheet and document stuff and occasional surfing

---

### Post by freak42 on 2008-12-11
- 64 bit allows you to address more RAM, 32 bit is limited to less than 4 Gigabytes whereas 64 bit practically has no limit.

- In 64 bit Systems processing of calculations at higher precisions should be faster.

So in practice if do not do intensive numeric calculations (including video encoding) often and you have less than 4 GB of RAM you might as well stick with the 32 bit.

hth

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-12-11
why use 32 bit if your system is capable of 64?

---

### Post by halovivek on 2008-12-11
64 bit will have lot of space for addressing. so you can atore large data as well as speed of accessing will be high.
you can read more [here]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/64_bit")

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2008-12-11
> why use 32 bit if your system is capable of 64?

Because some hardware (like mine usb wlan stick) does not support 64-bit yet :p.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2008-12-11
> **freak42 said:**
> - 64 bit allows you to address more RAM, 32 bit is limited to less than 4 Gigabytes whereas 64 bit practically has no limit.


Actually, that's not true. Any 32-bit Linux kernel that's been built with high memory support can address 4GB per process, up to a max of 64GB.

64-bit is faster (particularly at some tasks), and is what all new chips are built for. 32-bit is the old standard. I can personally vouch for 64-bit being smooth sailing on Linux, so i'd say you've got no real reason to throttle your chip down to 32-bit.

---

