---
title: "10.04 Updates Messed Up Grub"
date: 2010-10-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by AkarisLight on 2010-10-18
GRUB no longer is able to boot into my Ubuntu 10.04 install. It's the only OS on the system installed via LiveCD.

I didn't have it on for about 3 weeks, turned it on last night and installed updates. Now, it boots up, goes to the grub shell without any options. The last time I ran into this issue, it was on a WUBI install of 9.10, but was just a simple fix.

Not sure what more info you may need, let me know so I can get it to you.


To think, I just wanted to get some coding done, not troubleshoot another Ubuntu install.


EDIT: Just realized this is probably the wrong spot for this.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-10-18
Do you get to a grub rescue?

Post this so we can see your configuration:
Boot Info Script courtesy of forum member meierfra
Page with instructions and download:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
Paste results.txt, then highlight entire file and click on # in edit panel(code tags) to make it easier to read.
Or You can generate the tags first by pressing the # icon in the post's menu and then paste the contents between the generated [ code][ /code] tags.

Grub Rescue Prompt Megathread - drs305
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1594052](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1594052)

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-10-18
Hi AkarisLight, welcome to the Ubuntu forums. 

I'll move this thread to Absolute Beginners. 

If you post the information *oldfred* asked for he can fix you right up.

---

### Post by AkarisLight on 2010-10-20
Follow the instructions in that grub thread, thanks for that link. Had  to purge and reinstall/reconfigure grub2. Internet connection wasn't  recognized at first, so I had to copy over the resolv.conf and that got  it working. Patched up grub and now it works fine. Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-10-20
I appreciate the feedback, especially since I had briefly considered not putting the resolv.conf line in the sequence. But bsed on your feedback I'll now include it in the original set of instructions.  If there was anything that was confusing I'd be glad to rewrite or expand it.

If everything is now ok, would you please mark the thread SOLVED via the 'Thread Tools' link near the top right of the first post?

---

