---
title: "External monitor question"
date: 2008-07-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by NMbottlecap on 2008-07-18
Hey guys I've been working on this problem for the past couple of weeks. I have a Hardy install and it's near flawless, I just need to get my dual monitors working. The monitor on my notebook works without a problem, the problem child is my secondary monitor which only is able to be a "clone", it's a Dell e173FP with display of 1280 x 1024 at 60 Hz. And it is only able to clone when I start up with the monitor attached. I tried to use the Screens and Graphics config tool, and I configured exactly the make/model that it was when I "test" it comes up really garbled.  

It works without a problem on vista and I'm willing to put in the legwork to get it working, but i'm out of ideas, totally out of ideas.


Here's my Xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-07-18
dual monitors can be a pain sometimes. remember just because something works in windows means it will work in linux as the two are different...

---

### Post by ag65151 on 2008-07-18
The info you posted is insufficient for you to get any help.

Can you post the results of 

```

lspci

```

run in a terminal window so we can see what your exact video card is?

---

### Post by NMbottlecap on 2008-07-18
> **ag65151 said:**
> The info you posted is insufficient for you to get any help.

Can you post the results of 

```

lspci

```

run in a terminal window so we can see what your exact video card is?

Is this what you need?
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile PM965/GM965/GL960 Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 03)
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 03)
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 03)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 03)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 03)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 4 (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev f3)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801HEM (ICH8M) LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801HBM/HEM (ICH8M/ICH8M-E) IDE Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 82801HBM/HEM (ICH8M/ICH8M-E) SATA AHCI Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
05:00.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation NetLink BCM5906M Fast Ethernet PCI Express (rev 02)
06:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR242x 802.11abg Wireless PCI Express Adapter (rev 01)

---

### Post by NMbottlecap on 2008-07-18
> **SunnyRabbiera said:**
> dual monitors can be a pain sometimes. remember just because something works in windows means it will work in linux as the two are different...

True true, but like I said, I am willing to do what it takes to get it up and running, please help me escape Vista, if I am asked "Cancel or Allow" once more I'm going to stab Bill Gates with a pointy stick

---

### Post by ag65151 on 2008-07-18
That is exactly the info you need. You are using an Intel GM965/GL960 Intergrated graphics card.

You could google something like "external monitor Intel GM965" and you will get a bunch of answers.

But before you go hunting, try this in the same terminal window you ran lspci from.

```

xrandr --output VGA --auto

```

---

### Post by NMbottlecap on 2008-07-18
> **ag65151 said:**
> That is exactly the info you need. You are using an Intel GM965/GL960 Intergrated graphics card.

You could google something like "external monitor Intel GM965" and you will get a bunch of answers.

But before you go hunting, try this in the same terminal window you ran lspci from.

```

xrandr --output VGA --auto

```

Okay I ran the above command and all it did is cause the external monitor to blank out for a second them come back as a clone like it was before.  I will google and report back

update: HA! 1st hit goolging external monitor Intel GM965" and I got this [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5043495](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5043495)
guy did a clean install of Hardy, too bad that's not an option for me at this point

---

### Post by ag65151 on 2008-07-18
I don't your particular setup, but you could try to shut off your laptop monitor by entering this command

```

xrandr --output LVDS --off

```

If it works, your laptop display will turn off and your external will resize. 

Anyway, that is how it works on my machine.

If you need to get your laptop display back do this

```

xrandr --output LVDS --auto

```

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2008-07-18
ag65151 is correct that xrandr is much easier.

Make a backup of your xorg.conf, then reset it and use xrandr. You can find the instructions in post 14 in the following thread.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5296990#post5296990](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5296990#post5296990)

Good luck.

---

