---
title: "18.04 Login Screen Keeps Repaetig"
date: 2020-02-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rbscebu on 2020-02-17
I have been using Lubuntu 18.04 for over a year and never had this  happen before. I did an update/upgrade last night before shutting down.  This morning I go to log in. After I log in the login screen reappears. I  tried logging in again and again but the same thing happens.

I cannot log in. Help!

Ctrl+Alt+F3 gets me into terminal where I can log in.

ls -lah .Xauthority

returns

-rw-------- 1 richard richard 0 Feb 17 08:19 .Xauthority

---

### Post by EuclideanCoffee on 2020-02-17
If you can login from the terminal, there may be a problem with your gdm instance. 

You can check your journal for general gdm issues 

journalctl -xe

This might give you an idea on what configuration may need changing. Good luck.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-02-17
The main reason I can't login to GUI, but can successfully via terminal it's because I've used all my space in my $HOME (user directory).  The GUI logins require the creation of work files, and if there is insufficient space a (GUI) login will fail & you're returned to the greeter (dm) login screen.  Lack of space won't be noticed by already logged into sessions, only at login

if you changed drivers I'd blame other things, but if nothing out of the ordinary was done, I'd check you have free space available (`df -hl` for example but look at /home directory if it's on a separate partition)

---

### Post by rbscebu on 2020-02-17
At login screen I ctrl+alt+F3 and then log in.

journalctl -xe

returns 1138 error messages, typically like:

Feb 18 11:37:18 rishard-B202 rsyslogd[456]: file '8' write error: No space left on device [v8.32.0 try [http://www.rsyslog.com/e/2027]](http://www.rsyslog.com/e/2027])
Feb 18 11:37:18 rishard-B202 rsyslogd[456]: action 'action 2' (module 'builtinomfile') message lost, could not be processed. Check for additional error messages before this one. [v8.32.0 try [http://www.rsyslog.com/e/2027]](http://www.rsyslog.com/e/2027])

This I do not understand.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-02-17
'*No space left on device*' ~= disk is full

You need to remove some files so there is space .  You can't currently login via GUI when disk is full, so use the terminal login to find some files you can remove, when enough space has been created, your GUI login will work again.

---

### Post by rbscebu on 2020-02-17
I cd Downloads and then rm *.*
Then I cd Videos and rm *.*

My problem persists. How can I check how much free disk space I have?

---

### Post by EuclideanCoffee on 2020-02-18
You can check disk space with the following command.

df -h

---

### Post by yancek on 2020-02-18
What output do you get when you run the rm commands you posted above?  Wouldn't expect anything but an warning message.

---

### Post by rbscebu on 2020-02-18
df -h returns for Filesystem, Size, Used, Avail, Use%, Mounted on

udev 445M 0 445M 0% /dev
tmpfs 99M 1.2M 92M 2% /run
/dev/sda7 14G 14G 0 100% /
tmpfs 463M 0 463M 0% /dev/shm
tmpfs 5.0M 4.0k 5.0M 1% /run/lock
tmpfs 463M 0 463M 0% /sys/fs/cgroup
tmpfs 93M 0 93M 0% /run/user/106
tmpfs 93M 0 93M 0% /run/user/1000

I hope that helps you.

---

### Post by yancek on 2020-02-18
Since your / partition is full (100%), login to a terminal to remove files.  What happened when you ran the commands above?  See the link below on  how to remove files from a terminal.

[https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-remove-files-and-directories-using-linux-command-line/](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-remove-files-and-directories-using-linux-command-line/)

---

### Post by rbscebu on 2020-02-18
When I rm *.* above, there were no error messages.

Now I cd / then dir and get

bin boot cdrom dev etc home intrd.img intrd.img.old lib lost+found media mnt opt proc root run sbin srv swpfile sys tmp usr var vmlinuz vmlinuz.old

Where do I go to delete some files, how do I get there and what files should I delete?

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-02-18
I would probably 

```
du -hs /* |grep G
```

where du = disk.usage, the -h=human output, -s is summary info only, which I pipe through `grep` which reduces the output lines to those containing G meaning gigabytes of space used

Also FYI: If I get tired of error messages on directories I can't look at, I'll add a `2>/dev/null` so error messages aren't shown to me.

You'll likely currently have to run it without the pipe (`|grep G`) as you may not have enough disk space to currently pipe.  You'll find after you create some space, tools will start working again.

If it shows one directory (eg. /home) as large, I'd usually `cd` into that directory (eg. `cd /home`) and then `du -hs * |grep G` to look again for directories that are using loads of space... ie. narrowing it down until I have the culprit directory using all the space..  Then I look at files.  


**In your case I'd suggest starting in your $HOME directory** (`/user/guiverc/` directory for me), and if needed then move to / if I wasn't able to resolve the problem.  The reason for this is you should know what files you can afford to remove in your own directory, where as in other directories it'll be only log files, or you'll need to remove programs (but programs aren't big - for me downloaded ISO files use most of the disk space).

Use the `du -hs *` I used before, but without the "/" which made it look in the / (*root*) directory.

Before you `rm` files, I'd suggest using `ls` to list files and see what you'll remove (to ensure it's safe to remove them).  You should not copy/paste anything from this, this is intended to be what I'd do, and will hopefully be understood, ideally so you'll feel comfortable to look & try yourself. 

summary

`du -hs *`  --- disk-usage human & summary output to work out big directories
`cd` into directory you want to examine
(repeat until you're in directory where there are large files)

`ls -ltrhS`  (will sort so largest files are at the bottom) when you're finally looking at files

--
Also maybe useful:  The `*.*` matches fewer files in POSIX than does `*` alone, as it'll only match files that contain a "." in their name.  It's a special case in CP/M, DOS & windows for legacy reason; and is actually inconsistent as the first '*' includes periods, the second "*" doesn't (it made sense years ago when files were XXXXXXXX.EXT only).

Be careful, especially using wildcards (eg. *) on `rm` or remove commands.

---

### Post by rbscebu on 2020-02-18
When I cd Downloads and then rm *.* and cd Videos and rm *.* above,  got no error messages.

Now I cd / and then dir and get

bin boot cdrom dev etc home initrd.img initrd.img.old lib lost+found media mnt opt proc root run sbin srv swapfile sys tmp usr var vmlinuz vmlinuz.old

Where do I go o delete, how do I get there and what should/shuldn't I delete?

---

### Post by rbscebu on 2020-02-18
In /home I dir and get only richard
In /home I du -hs * and get 4.3G richard
In /home I cd /richard and get No such file or directory
I then cd / and then cd /home/richard and nothing happens

How can I get into /richard to delete some files?

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-02-18
If you don't get a response; that nearly always means the command worked.

You can enter the command `pwd` to print your working directory (ie. ask the system what directory you are in).

As far as I remember, `cd` alone in windows would display this information (I don't use windows very often), where as in unix/bsd/linux/ubuntu the `cd` command alone will change directory to your $HOME directory, ie. `/home/guiverc/` for me, and I bet `/home/richard/` for you.   Either way, use `pwd` as a command to print your current/present working directory.

---

### Post by rbscebu on 2020-02-19
I have now removed everything that I am game enough to remove from /home/richard

In /home i then did df -h returning

Filesystem, Size, Used, Avail, Use%, Mounted on

udev 445M 0 445M 0% /dev
tmpfs 99M 1.2M 92M 2% /run
/dev/sda7 14G 14G 0 100% /
tmpfs 463M 0 463M 0% /dev/shm
tmpfs 5.0M 4.0k 5.0M 1% /run/lock
tmpfs 463M 0 463M 0% /sys/fs/cgroup
tmpfs 93M 0 93M 0% /run/user/106
tmpfs 93M 0 93M 0% /run/user/1000

None of this changed from before I did my rm work. I am thinking that /dev/sda7 might be a Veracrypt container that would always look as 100% full.

Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-02-19
You'll have to remove software most probably, ie. 

```
sudo apt remove <package-name> 
```

where <package-name> is the name of programs.

Your partition size is 14gb - where the recommended is 25gb for a desktop ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements)).  

Lots of people get by on much smaller than the recommended 25gb, but you have to be very careful with not adding extra software, and keeping your system lean.  Personally I like 32gb for / (esp. when it comes time to *release-upgrade* or *bump* to the next release; and that doesn't include my /home partition I keep separate).

When you've created some space, you can use

```
sudo apt autoclean
sudo apt autoremove
```

to try and create some more free space (by removing obsolete & orphaned packages no longer required) but these *auto* functions require some disk space to run, so may not run yet (worth trying them though).

If you've added `aptitude` already, I'd use it to remove packages; but you cannot add it on your system due to your space issues, so if not added it'll be commands only.

---

### Post by rbscebu on 2020-02-19
Guivervc, you are a lifesaver! I removed VLC and Firefox, autoceaned and autoremoved. Now I can log into my Lubuntu.

I just hope that one day I can help others as much as others have helped me. As we say in the Philippines, salamat po

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2020-02-19
As others have said, your main problem is that you have 14G total space available for Lubuntu; this is really insufficient if you are using this as your main OS.

Is there any possibility of enlarging the partition Lubuntu is using by taking some from any adjoining partition; is the computer using a dual boot or not?

Running lubuntu it could be helpful to show us the output of command
sudo fdisk -l

---

### Post by rbscebu on 2020-02-20
**The Solution:**

In a nutshell, my problem occurred because the partition for my Ubuntu OS was full. I was able to go to terminal by using Ctrl+Alt+F3 at the login screen and logging in there with my user name and password.

Once logged in I used
```
df -h
```
that showed that my root directory (/) was full (100%)
I then deleted some programmes using
```
rm <programname>
```
( in my case I deleted firefox and vlc) that left me with enough space in my root directory that allowed me to log in as normal.
I rebooted using
```
Ctrl+Alt+Del
```
and logged in as normal in the login screen without problem.

Once logged in, I used GParted (already installed in my system) to resize and move some partitions about so that I could then use GParted to increase the size of partition for my root directory. In doing this GParted work, It is important to first back up any data that you want to be sure to not loose.

---

