---
title: "Dreaded Nvidia NV5M64"
date: 2009-01-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Bourne_Identity on 2009-01-30
Hi All,

Very new to Linux so bear with me.

I've got problems already beacuse I have a Nvidia graphics card. I've read through some of the forum threads so I know I face an up hill struggle.

I have followed some of the advice but I seem to be going round in circles.

I have a Nvidia NV5M64 (Riva TNT2 Model 64 rev 15)

I am stuck in 800x600 mode. There are no other choices in Screen Resolution and there are no other ways to set the resolution in the GUI.

There are NO drivers in System--->Administration--->Hardware Drivers

SO I tried the following:

sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-71
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings
sudo nvidia-glx-config enable

and Reboot.

I get a Nvidia Server Settings box in System--->Admin. When I open it I get an error message which says:

You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server. 

When I go into root and run nvidia-xconfig I get a message saying that package can't be found.

If I install the package it removes nvidia-glx-71, when I run it nothing appears to change.

If I reboot Ubuntu starts in low graphics mode with errors.

During start up I noticed I briefly see:

Running DKMS auto instal service for kernal 2.6.27-11..
Nvidia 71-86-04.... [FAIL]

The system then goes into low graphics mode and displays:

Failed to load Module type 1 (mod does not exist)#
Failed to load usr/lib/xorg/modules/drives//nvidia_drv.so
Failed to load module nividia (loader failed)
No drives available


Here is my xorg.conf file:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Thu Jun 26 06:22:40 UTC 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


ANY HELP WOULD BE GREATLY APPRECIATED !!!!

---

### Post by Bourne_Identity on 2009-01-31
So what should I do ? Just buy a new graphics card ?

---

### Post by jijin on 2009-07-18
I am also having this issue, a little help would be nice please. bump

---

### Post by jijin on 2009-07-19
pokes the thread.

---

### Post by mgmiller on 2009-07-19
What?  Who poked me?

Seriously, though, the riva tnt2 cards are ancient and not supported by any of the newer nvidia drivers.  You will have a much better experience by picking up a newer nvidia card.  Preferably something from the 6xxx or higher series to make use of the newer drivers.  7xxx is better and 8xxx, 9xxx, etc. each generation got better.  The problem is finding an AGP version of the card for your mobo.  All the newer cards are PCIe.

---

### Post by jijin on 2009-07-19
Would downgrading temporarily be a good solution. If so, to what version?

This 800x600 is killing me.

---

### Post by mgmiller on 2009-07-19
I would try 8.04 (currently 8.04.3)  It's the LTS version.  If it works for you, it will be stable and supported until 2011.  This is the version I run on all my office computers.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-07-19
i simply advise you to do this

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg    

then add this to xorg.conf
```

Section "Device"
        Identifier     "Device0"
        Driver         "nv"
        VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

```

or you can try the risky, blindly-done mod that i just did to your xorg.conf

```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig: version 1.0 (buildd@palmer) Thu Jun 26 06:22:40 UTC 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Layout0"
Screen 0 "Screen0" 0 0
InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

#Section "Module"
#Load "dbe"
#Load "extmod"
#Load "type1"
#EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

# generated from default
Identifier "Mouse0"
Driver "mouse"
Option "Protocol" "auto"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

# generated from default
Identifier "Keyboard0"
Driver "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Unknown"
ModelName "Unknown"
HorizSync 30.0 - 110.0
VertRefresh 50.0 - 150.0
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Device0"
Driver "nv"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Device0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-07-19
anyways, fyi it seems that nvidia is having trouble inserting the driver into your kernel.

---

