---
title: "[8.10]How I can configure autoupdate feature not to install kernel level updates?"
date: 2009-02-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by legolas_w on 2009-02-18
Hi
I installed the invidia driver manually and it looks like that when auto update install a new kernel I should manually re-install the nvidia driver.

I am looking for a way to configure  autoupdate not to install the kernel level or somehow remove the manually installed NVIDIA driver and let switch back to automatic model.

thanks.

---

### Post by pawnrocket on 2009-02-18
Just a guess but how about you only auto update security updates
From Gnome-Panel click
/System/Administration/Software Sources

Install security updates without confirmation 
Then remove the check from 'recommended updates'

Anyone know if this is the way?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-02-18
You can lock the current kernel in synaptic. Highlight your current kernel and from the top menu, Package, Lock Version. The kernel won't be updated via synaptic/Update Manager until you remove the lock. 
If you don't know which kernel you are currently using:
```
uname -r
```
In synaptic, the kernels start with "linux-image-..." such as *linux-image-2.6.24-7-generic*

You can also *install* new kernels but not use them with settings in menu.lst  You can set the menu.lst defaults using a gui app called StartUp-Manager. For more information, refer to the thread linked in my signature line.

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-02-18
1. You could freeze the kernel version in synaptic.

2. [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual) Contents 8 for removal.

I've been here too. I reinstalled. I know it's not the done thing to suggest this but in this case it was needed. I have home on it's own partition so a reinstall takes about 15 mins.

---

### Post by legolas_w on 2009-02-18
Hi
Thank you all.

I locked :

```

linux-headers-2.6.27-11
linux-headers-2.6.27-11-generic
linux-image-2.6.27-11-generic

```

Is this enough to keep current version?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-02-18
The answer is yes ..... and no.

The reason is that these items are now "locked" from updating either through synaptic or update manager.

For reasons I don't understand, when you place a lock via these methods it is not forwarded to apt-get and dkpg. Thus, if you ran an update via the terminal (sudo apt-get update) the kernels will not indicate they are locked and will be updated. 

To prevent the kernel from being updated via the command line and "apt-get upgrade", you can enter the lock status by running the following command:
```

echo 'linux-image-2.6.27-11-generic hold' | sudo dpkg --set-selections

```

To reverse this, unlock it in Synaptic and also run:
```

echo 'linux-image-2.6.27-11-generic install' | sudo dpkg --set-selections

```



Note: using "aptitude hold" also does not lock the package in synaptic/update manager/apt-get and has been reported in launchpad.

---

