---
title: "9.10, WiFi, and Dell Inspiron 1100"
date: 2009-11-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ovid9 on 2009-11-28
My wife has an old Dell Inspiron 1100 laptop that I keep nursing along.  I have upgraded the RAM, put new cooling paste on it, and got it a cooling pad to prevent the slowdown's due to overheating.  

However she likes her silly Facebook games and currently it runs so slow that her farming and such takes forever and a day.  Suspecting the OS and its updates were the problem, I downloaded and burned xubuntu 9.10, the thing smoked, even running off a liveCD.
 
The only issue was, I couldn't get the wireless to detect.  Plugging it in via cable was fine, but it wouldn't detect the network on wireless.
 
It has a D-Link Airplus DWL-G650 (the numbers on the wireless card) and is going to a linksys router.  I thing a wrt54g, but I'm not looking at it currently.
 
Long story short, do I need to download drivers to make her wireless work?  Running off a liveCD I figured it might not have the ones built in to recognize it.  Or, are there settings I should look at?
 
The next project is clearing up enough HD space to install xubuntu and try dual booting for her.
 
Thanks!

---

### Post by Some Penguin on 2009-11-28
Judging from [http://forums.wi-fiplanet.com/archive/index.php/t-1075.html](http://forums.wi-fiplanet.com/archive/index.php/t-1075.html) and [http://madwifi-project.org/wiki/Compatibility/D-Link](http://madwifi-project.org/wiki/Compatibility/D-Link) you may have to first determine which chipset is involved, because D-Link has apparently made different versions (and doesn't bother naming any of them on their website, AFAICT).

---

### Post by ovid9 on 2009-11-28
Alright.
 
AFTER posting (of course) I noticed another thread with a similar issue, so I think what I'll do is put this on hold until I have the computer in front of me and can do some checking for chipsets and such.  
 
Thanks, and I'm sure I'll be back!

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2009-11-29
Hi
Please let me know the output of

```
lshw -C network
```

type this code in terminal

---

