---
title: "11.04 no boot, just says grub&gt;"
date: 2011-05-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by decotronix on 2011-05-29
I am a complete noob at all this but have had lots of time with XP. I love the 11.04 distro and had it running flawlessly as a dual boot (so I thought, evidently is isn't but runs inside Windows, I want REAL reality, not virtual reality!) with XP on my MSI Wind netbook. I got a virus in the XP side and then could not get Ubuntu to boot, just shows a blank screen with "grub>" at startup after selecting Ubuntu. I also have the Zorin OS4 running fine as an actual dual boot before the bootloader (I believe it is wubi) goes to the option to select from XP or Ubuntu 11.04. 

I think I got the dreaded Grub2 problem but after reading the mega thread on it all I'm stumped as to what/where/how to proceed. I have several personal journalling files in the 11.04 install that I can't afford to lose and I'm scared to do an uninstall of the Ubuntu/Wubi as such, otherwise I would just reinstall the whole mess to avoid fighting with it but I don't want to give up that easy. 

I tried several of the tips in the mega thread on grub/wubi but nothing seemed to match up to what it said I should see as a result and now I am lost as to where and what I did. I have several DAYS of wasted time in trying to fix this and can't believe it is all that hard! I'm not familiar enough with writing any code to think I can correct this through the terminal window without some coaching so that is why I'm here. 

At one point Windows wouldn't even boot but after simply inserting the install disk and letting it load the basic files for an install it rebooted on its own and then Windows worked again, I never got to a prompt to select "R' to repair anything, it just rebooted and Windows came up OK so that part is fixed and I did get rid of the virus that caused the whole mess in the first place. It was a rootkit virus that got me. So, yes, Linux CAN be trashed through Windows it seems. I can see my Ubuntu folder in Windows but don't know what to do with it and Windows can't run the wubi files, only the Uninstaller works and it says Ubuntu not Wubi so which is it?

Please if you can and have the patience to teach me how I need my Ubuntu as I like it the best even over the ZorinOS4 (based on Linux 10.10) install which works great also.

Please, HEPL if you can! Thanks in advance to any and all.

---

### Post by guilleme on 2011-05-29
Have you tried booting from a live cd/usb?
If I was you, I would boot form a livecd, recover all my important data, information and files to a usb, and then continue fighting with the thing.
If you have already done this, please just ignore me. 
(A little note: I believe the reason Ubu. was actually trashed from windows is that it was installed from Wubi. If you make a clean install, from the livecd, this would be much more difficult to accomplish, though not impossible).
Good luck!

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-05-29
The important file is \ubuntu\disks\root.disk
This contains all your ubuntu files

You can get read-only access to this from Windows using the tool here: [http://ext2read.blogspot.com/](http://ext2read.blogspot.com/)

The entry in the Add/Remove programs is "Ubuntu". Wubi is the Windows Ubuntu installer. So it installs Ubuntu and that's what you uninstall. If you uninstall it will delete everything.

If you still want to try to fix your Wubi install, then boot a current Ubuntu CD in live mode (select "try it" without installing) and run the [bootinfoscript]("http://sourceforge.net/projects/bootinfoscript/files/bootinfoscript/0.55/") (I recommend version 0.55 of the bootinfoscript over the latest 0.60)

---

### Post by decotronix on 2011-05-29
Ok, thanks for the info. I got the ext2explore download and there is no ubuntu file folder there but it shows /dev/sda4 as the disk with all the other files that should be there(?). Maybe that is the Zorin OS4? 

I looked in the c:windows folder that has a ubuntu folder in it and there is no such path as was suggested about root.disk. maybe it is all too late and everything got zapped with the virus? 

I have ubuntu on a USB drive but loading it in the try it out mode I have no idea how to do anything else with what is already installed on the C:Windows Ubuntu. Should I just copy everything I see in the C:Windows Ubuntu folder and save it to another area on one of the storage partitions in my hard drive and reinstall or can you tell me what to do next? Sorry but this has become the mental equivalent of driving in screws with a framing hammer to me.

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-05-29
> **decotronix said:**
> Ok, thanks for the info. I got the ext2explore download and there is no ubuntu file folder there but it shows /dev/sda4 as the disk with all the other files that should be there(?). Maybe that is the Zorin OS4? 

I looked in the c:windows folder that has a ubuntu folder in it and there is no such path as was suggested about root.disk. maybe it is all too late and everything got zapped with the virus? 

I have ubuntu on a USB drive but loading it in the try it out mode I have no idea how to do anything else with what is already installed on the C:Windows Ubuntu. Should I just copy everything I see in the C:Windows Ubuntu folder and save it to another area on one of the storage partitions in my hard drive and reinstall or can you tell me what to do next? Sorry but this has become the mental equivalent of driving in screws with a framing hammer to me.
However you approach it - the root.disk is what you want. Most of the other stuff is irrelevant. Sometimes Windows will remove it as part of chkdsk and move it to a hidden folder - sometimes it can rename it to chk0000.chk or something similar. So you need to search for it - make sure you can see hidden files and folders. Search on size as well as name. I think it should be C:\fOUND.000 or C:\chk... something.

Or perhaps it was removed due to the virus and/or cleanup. But basically you should focus your efforts on that, and then once you find it and get your data off, you can look at getting it booting again.

---

### Post by TheDoctorX on 2011-06-18
> **bcbc said:**
> However you approach it - the root.disk is what you want. Most of the other stuff is irrelevant. Sometimes Windows will remove it as part of chkdsk and move it to a hidden folder - sometimes it can rename it to chk0000.chk or something similar. So you need to search for it - make sure you can see hidden files and folders. Search on size as well as name. I think it should be C:\fOUND.000 or C:\chk... something.

Or perhaps it was removed due to the virus and/or cleanup. But basically you should focus your efforts on that, and then once you find it and get your data off, you can look at getting it booting again.

THANKS MAN U SAVED MY LIFE ... the root.disk file was hidden in a folder called found.0000\dir0000.chk\root.disk!!! :D

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-06-18
> **TheDoctorX said:**
> THANKS MAN U SAVED MY LIFE ... the root.disk file was hidden in a folder called found.0000\dir0000.chk\root.disk!!! :D

Great! That's good news.

Note that you can get root.disk corruption with hard shutdowns etc. If you think the machine is hanging first try to restart with Alt+PrntScr R-E-I-S-U-B and only after that resort to hard power downs.

Moving to a normal partitioned install is one way to prevent this (or if you stay with Wubi keep your backups current).

---

