---
title: "16.04 Upgrade problem."
date: 2016-08-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pete792 on 2016-08-02
Hi all,

 I have been using 14.04 for a fairly long time on a Samsung R519 with great success. I find it much better than the previous windows OS. Anyway when the chance came to upgrade to 16.04 I did. 

 Before I could download it I had to clear some space which I followed online instructions to do. Next I pressed the install and it got about half way through and the screen went black, but the laptop was still on.

 After leaving it a long time I turned it off. Now when it's switched on it just goes to a black screen. When you switch it off there is some info but it's too quick to read.

 I hope someone can help as I currently have a paper weight instead of a laptop :)

 Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-08-02
We do not know what the instructions were that you followed. But in a way all that is irrelevant. The past is the past. You need to re-install. You can use a Ubuntu live session to copy your data off of the drive.

Do you get a Grub boot menu? If you do, then you can select Advance options for Ubuntu and then select a recovery mode kernel. At the recovery menu select Network to get an internet connection. Then select Root shell prompt. And run

```
apt update
apt upgrade
apt full-upgrade
```

That may complete what the upgrade process failed to complete. May, but it most likely will not. When those commands are finished running type enter to get back to the recovery menu and then select Resume. See what happens. 

Regards.

---

### Post by pete792 on 2016-08-02
Thanks for the reply, unfortunately the screen is black. When it happened it did ask for log in details on the black screen but it was very slow to respond which allowed me to type in the wrong details and press enter. That screen has not returned.

 When it gets to the black screen it looks like it goes off then comes on about every 20 seconds.

  To create space for the update I installed Ubuntu Tweak.

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-08-02
Did you have proprietary drivers installed for the graphics card ? Your issue probably lies elsewhere but it is good practice to disable any proprietary drivers when upgrading.

If you cannot get a terminal with Ctrl-Alt+F1, you could try pressing and holding the Shift key when powering on the computer to get the grub menu and do as grahammechanical suggests.

---

### Post by pete792 on 2016-08-02
Hi, thanks for the reply. I did not disable anything before starting the upgrade. Its a shame because this is the only problem I have had since becoming an Ubuntu convert.

 I will try what's been suggested tonight when I get home and report back . :)

---

### Post by Geoffrey_Arndt on 2016-08-02
> **pete792 said:**
> Hi all,

 I have been using 14.04 for a fairly long time on a Samsung R519 with great success. I find it much better than the previous windows OS. Anyway when the chance came to upgrade to 16.04 I did. 

 Before I could download it I had to clear some space which I followed online instructions to do. Next I pressed the install and it got about half way through and the screen went black, but the laptop was still on.

 After leaving it a long time I turned it off. Now when it's switched on it just goes to a black screen. When you switch it off there is some info but it's too quick to read.

 I hope someone can help as I currently have a paper weight instead of a laptop :)

 Thanks in advance.

OK, to clarify a bit more so we don't continue down the "wrong path" . . . ,

>   What are the specs of your system?   Need PC Make & Model, CPU, RAM, HDD used/free, other OS still on PC (and which version), what graphics (intel, amd/ati, nvidia)?  Is the PC bios/firmware (UEFI or MBR)? 
>   Did you do a clean install or an upgrade of an existing Ubuntu 14.04 AND was your Ubuntu 14.04 fully updated and with no PPA's enabled (aka, non-standard repos)?
>   If windows still on system, were you able to open windows after making room/increasing hdd partition?    
>   Do you still want or need Windows (aka, do you want a dual-boot system)?
>   Can you post "what instructions" you followed?   (the URL)?

How did you use "Ubuntu Tweak" to make more space.    Do you mean Unity-Tweak or Gnome-Tweak?    I wasn't aware either one of these programs had partitioning or disk tools . . . . ??????????

---

### Post by pete792 on 2016-08-05
> **Geoffrey_Arndt said:**
> OK, to clarify a bit more so we don't continue down the "wrong path" . . . ,

>   What are the specs of your system?   Need PC Make & Model, CPU, RAM, HDD used/free, other OS still on PC (and which version), what graphics (intel, amd/ati, nvidia)?  Is the PC bios/firmware (UEFI or MBR)? 
>   Did you do a clean install or an upgrade of an existing Ubuntu 14.04 AND was your Ubuntu 14.04 fully updated and with no PPA's enabled (aka, non-standard repos)?
>   If windows still on system, were you able to open windows after making room/increasing hdd partition?    
>   Do you still want or need Windows (aka, do you want a dual-boot system)?
>   Can you post "what instructions" you followed?   (the URL)?

How did you use "Ubuntu Tweak" to make more space.    Do you mean Unity-Tweak or Gnome-Tweak?    I wasn't aware either one of these programs had partitioning or disk tools . . . . ??????????


 Sorry for the delay,

 I can get a menu now by pressing shift key and some sort of basic terminal by pressing ctl,alt,f4. But no joy typing in the commands apt update etc...

 Laptop is Samsung R519  Celeron dual core T3100 @1.90ghz.

 Only Ubuntu on laptop.

 Install was a recommendation from the software center, all I did was press yes after deleting stuff to make space.

 Sorry I can't find the exact site but I installed Ubuntu Tweak then deleted old kernels and Google Chrome files with janitor to make space.

 Lastly sorry to be a pain but I'm not at all fluent in ubuntu commands etc so I'm afraid it has to be answers for ubuntu dummies :)

 Thanks Pete.

---

### Post by pete792 on 2016-08-07
So i have managed to get the old system back up and running with no loss of data YAY :)

 It does come up with a box saying the following-

Data files for some packages could not be downloaded

The following packages requested additional data downloads after package installation, but the data could not be downloaded or could not be processed.

flashplugin-installer, ttf-mscorefonts-installer

This is a permanent failure that leaves these packages unusable on your system.  You may need to fix your Internet connection, then remove and reinstall the packages to fix this problem.

 Could this be what is causing the problem?

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-08-07
> **pete792 said:**
> ...Data files for some packages could not be downloaded....

Congrats on fixing the upgrade.

This issue isn't likely to have caused the original problem but to try and resolve, have a go at reinstalling both packages.

```
sudo apt-get purge ttf-mscorefonts-installer
```
```
sudo apt get install ttf-mscorefonts-installer
```

You could do the same for flashplugin-installer but I'd purge and use adobe-flashplugin from the Partners repository in preference.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-08-07
With the ttf-mscorefonts-installer we need to accept the Microsoft End User License Agreement (EULA). If we do not except the EULA then the installer cannot download and install each of the Microsoft fonts. And not accepting the EULA could be why there is this message:

> The following packages requested additional data downloads after package  installation, but the data could not be downloaded or could not be  processed.

Regards.

---

### Post by tsjswimmer on 2016-08-14
Maybe these packages are using outdated URLs to find the files they are supposed to be downloading. I would suggest running ```
sudo apt update; sudo apt full-upgrade
``` to see if these packages have updates (if there are newer versions of these packages, hopefully they will have updated URLs).

---

