---
title: "11.10 : HP Officejet all in one 4215 : How to make it work?"
date: 2012-04-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Lucypie on 2012-04-29
Basically, It wont work on Windows. It won't work on ubuntu. I'm ready to pull my hair out. :)

By the title of the post you know what it is and what version ubuntu  I run. I have HPLIP installed, I actually found that out :D 

When I go to libreoffice to print a file, I see "generic printer" but nothing else. It doesn't print.
When I search print in unity, I get "Printing" saying no printers are added and gives me the option to add, but I have no idea what aall that fancy stuff is so.... Yay, you guys get to help!

Any suggestions/advice? Thanks!!

---

### Post by codingman on 2012-04-29
Many printers don't work in linux, and what version of Windows are you using? BTW it's always a good idea to put your title data in the question itself.

---

### Post by Lucypie on 2012-04-29
Windows 7 64bit.

HPLIP claims it supports my printer, and HPLIP is the HP Linux Image Printing system.... So, is it just lying ?

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-04-29
It sounds like you haven't set up the printer yet.

Here is what the Ubuntu help says

[https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-help/printing-setup.html]("https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-help/printing-setup.html")

Not very helpful at first glance, I know, but it is actually really that simple for most cases.

You have a HP all-in-one, don't you?

Here is a page dedicated just to them:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HpAllInOne]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HpAllInOne")

---

### Post by Lucypie on 2012-04-29
@Audiomick - Thanks for the first page, but well... I've done all that and none of it worked. The first thing never showed up and the manual way didn't show anything either... So yeah.. :( 

Second page: 
"2. Delete any entries for this printer in System->Administration->Printers."
I don't have "printers". I have Printing, but it doesn't show it. Does this mean that there are no entries? 

I'll do step three when I reconnect to the printer. Thank you for the link.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-04-29
Hope it works. I don't have one myself, but I believe HP devices generally work pretty well with linux.

---

### Post by Lucypie on 2012-04-30
Thanks everyone! The HP Allinone page worked perfectly!!!!!!!! Thanks much!

---

