---
title: "Connecting to the internet via server"
date: 2012-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by blacktwain on 2012-05-11
Just started up Ubuntu Server, is there a command to connect to the internet? I'm connecting through a router.

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-05-11
Hi blacktwain.

I imagine you're trying to test if your network is properly set, and your server has access to the internet?

Try:
```
ping ubuntu.com
```
to check if you are able to translate the address into an IP, and then reach its destination.

Is that what you are looking for?
Regards.

---

### Post by blacktwain on 2012-05-11
when I try to ping it returns "ping: unknown host ubuntu.com"

I am pretty sure that I am not connected to the internet and I would like to know how to get connected.

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-05-11
It looks like you are not able to translate names into IP addresses. That is usually a DNS problem.

Could you post the result of this commands?
```
ifconfig

cat /etc/resolv.conf

dig ubuntu.com
```

Regards.

---

### Post by blacktwain on 2012-05-11
ifconfig returns

lo link encap:Local Loopback
Inet addr: 127.0.0.1 Mask:225.0.0.0
inet6 addr: ::1/28 Scope:Host
UP LOOPBACK RUNNING MTU:16436 Metric:1
RX packets:232 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets:232 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
RX bytes:18632 (18.6 KB) TX bytes 18632 (18.6 KB)

cat /etc/resolv.conf returns:

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#   DO NOT END THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN

dig ubuntu.com doesn't return anything

EDIT: just kidding, it just took a while

; <<>> DiG 9.8.1-P1 <<>> ubuntu.com
;; global options: +cmd
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached

thanks for your help btw

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-05-11
Not only a DNS problem, but general networking: the server doesn't seem to be getting an LAN IP from the router.

Does running this solve the problem?
```
sudo service networking restart
```

If not, could you post the result of this command?
```
cat /etc/network/interfaces 
```
Regards.

---

### Post by blacktwain on 2012-05-11
sudo service netowrking restart returns
stop: unknown instance:
netwroking stop/waiting

cat /etc/netwrok/interfaces gives me
# This file describes the network interfaces avaliable on your system
# and how to activate them.  For more information, see interfaces(5)

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-05-11
That is not correct if you want to use it connected to a router and use DHCP.

Edit the file, so it looks like this:
```
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

[B]# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp[/B]

```
(the black lines are the ones you need to add).

After that, restart your server:
```
sudo reboot
```

Tell us how it goes.
Regards.

---

### Post by blacktwain on 2012-05-11
what do I type in to edit the file?

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-05-11
```
sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces
```
Regards.

---

### Post by blacktwain on 2012-05-11
It took a while waiting for network configuration while booting up.  Updating still did not work.

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2012-05-11
Looks like the network hardware isn't even being recognised.

What do you get from


```
sudo lshw -C network
```

---

### Post by blacktwain on 2012-05-11
it gives me this:

```
network DISABLED
description: Ethernet interface
product: NetXtreme BCM5723 Gigabit Ethernet PCIe
vendor: Broadcom Corporation
psysical id: 0
bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
logical name: eth1
version: 10
serial: e4:11:5b:13:7f:Ba
capacity: 1Gbit/s
width: 64 bits
clockL 33mhz
capabilities: pm vpd msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt etc etc
configuration autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=tg3etc driverversion=3.121 firmware=5723-v3.35 latency=0 link=no multicast=yes prot=twister pair
resources: irq:18 memory:fe9f0000-fe9fffff
```

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2012-05-11
At least it has a driver loaded for it. Not sure why network is disabled. Must be an error in the log on boot up. I notice it displays as eth1 rather than eth0. Try the earlier suggestion again but change eth0 to eth1

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-05-11
> **alphacrucis2 said:**
> Try the earlier suggestion again but change eth0 to eth1

Just in case, that is on /etc/network/interfaces as in post #8.

Regards.

---

### Post by blacktwain on 2012-05-12
Wow you guys are awesome.  That seemed to do it.  I just updated and I think it worked!

Thank you so much!

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-05-12
:D Great!

Please mark the the thread solved when you have the chance. That way other users can take advantage of what we learned together (see instructions [here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads")).

Regards.

---

