---
title: "12.04.3 server installed, now will not allow password"
date: 2013-09-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Clayton_Holwell on 2013-09-19
Hi Everyone... I'm new to this software. I have a Dell PE2950 -II and installed 12.04.3 Server last night. I finally got it to complete the process and I thought it was "fine". Got the Ubuntu 12.04.3 LTS ubuntu tty1, ubuntu login: typed my name and went to enter the password and nothing happened. I have read the past messages on this site and no matter what I type in it just returns "login incorrect"...? What can you suggest? Should I reformat the drives?... Download a different copy and reinstall? The hardware seems to be working fine. What am I missing? Where should I look? Thanks for any help. The "newbie", Clayton

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-09-19
Clayton_Holwell; Hi ! Welcome to the forum .

Let me suggest, linux is case sensitive, maybe when you entered the password the caps lock was set; either in the install process or in at the terminal ?? ... One other way out of this is perhaps reset that password.
Here are easy instructions to reset your password in Ubuntu:
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword)

[INDENT][INDENT]hope that helps
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Clayton_Holwell on 2013-09-19
Sounds unlike me to do that, but I'll give it a try or change the password...and Thanks,C

---

### Post by Clayton_Holwell on 2013-09-20
All righty then... couldn't get the password to work, so changed it using the suggested "How to reset..." and now I think I'm in??? I'm at a "Welcome" screen - Welcome to Ubuntu 12.04.3 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.8.0-29-generic x86-64) etc, etc... a bunch of sys info, disclaimers and the un-warranty, finishing with clayton@ubuntu:~s   
*Fastforward.....* 
Did some "fishing" found  "[FONT=Ubuntu Mono]sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade - and - [/FONT][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]sudo apt-get -y install ubuntu-desktop"... and WHOO HOO!!!! Got GUI! [/FONT]Now what?  I'm sure I need to update all the firmware, drivers, etc. as they are all many years out of date. ...  I don't need to rush this mess, I just want it to "be alive" and solid... Do I now migrate to a Dell site for all the updates, firmware, etc. or what?
Thanks, Clayton 
P.S. Thanks again... I'll continue to look for answers on this site, but I appreciate all/any of your experience with Linux/Ubuntu software!!!!

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2013-09-20
if all works then you don't need any additional drivers. what does not work?

ther eis also an additional drivers utility that fill search and find drivers for you to install.in 12.04 it is easy to find int 12.10 and 13.04 it's a bti more hidden: [http://www.howopensource.com/2012/10/find-additional-drivers-in-ubuntu-12-10/](http://www.howopensource.com/2012/10/find-additional-drivers-in-ubuntu-12-10/)

---

### Post by sanderj on 2013-09-20
> **Clayton_Holwell said:**
> I'm sure I need to update all the firmware, drivers, etc. as they are all many years out of date. ...  I don't need to rush this mess, I just want it to "be alive" and solid... Do I now migrate to a Dell site for all the updates, firmware, etc. or what?

No. You're probably fine; Ubuntu / Linux has all drivers / software etc built-in.

... unless something is not working. So ... is everything working?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-09-20
Clayton_Holwell; Hey ... Good news ...

See all the above post !

As you have installed a server .. why ?
Are you aware that there are serious security risks running the server with a GUI ? As well, running a GUI on the server frame can complicate some things... but this is linux .. all things are possible.

[INDENT][INDENT]just try'n to help
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

