---
title: "pls help me... messed around with gparted..... !!!"
date: 2009-02-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by manuvaidya on 2009-02-27
hi guys, i was happy with ubuntu from the past 15 days.... all of a sudden i thought of dual booting my lappy with windows 7. i saw a guide on dual booting in this forum. well i am not blaming that tutorial for my condition....

wheni started gparted to convert the ext3 format drive to ntfs, i had to unmount that particular drive to convert it into ntfs.... so everything was ok. it got converted into ntfs also after formatting....

now i cant access that partition... it just shows as 119 GB media.....
i am sure it is not mounted..that could be the reason why i fail to have an access into that partition...

now what i am asking u people is how to mount that drive & have a read & write accessibility.... i am waiting for ur response....i searched the internet for an answer... i didnt get it working by following any method... pls help me...;)

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2009-02-27
What partition did you reformat?  What was on it?  Can  you post the output of these:

```

sudo fdisk -l
cat /etc/fstab

```

---

### Post by Cresho on 2009-02-27
stay away from windows 7..that is why you are here.

---

### Post by manuvaidya on 2009-02-27
this is the output of this command:

sudo fdisk -l  :

Disk /dev/sda: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x000b507b

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        2611    20972826   83  Linux
/dev/sda2            2612       30401   223223175    5  Extended
/dev/sda5            2612        3201     4739143+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda6            3202       16801   109241968+  83  Linux
/dev/sda7           16802       30401   109241968+   7  HPFS/NTFS

&

cat /etc/fstab  :

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=0426b609-b315-449b-a7c8-062958767027 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=df9ac488-d5a4-4001-88eb-21407cd5a11f none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0

i dont understand the head & tail of what that error means...
waiting for ur input......

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2009-02-27
Those aren't errors, just information.  So I'm assuming it was sda7 you reformatted?  You didn't tell me what was on it before.

---

### Post by manuvaidya on 2009-02-27
well cresho.... i do feel the same when i think of windows... but what to do, there is no absolute parallel softwares in ubuntu for windows.... i still miss the mirc & IDM.... those 2 r my favourite at the moment..... so i am not getting good download speeds in ubuntu... thats why i wanna have windows as an alternative... except that ubunutu simply outperforms windows in all aspects i agree....

---

### Post by manuvaidya on 2009-02-27
oh sorry... i had backed up those files on external HD.... i just wanna use that drive in ubuntu..... sorry to scare u with that caption..... i just wanna mount that drive automatically when i boot into ubuntu.... is that possible????

---

### Post by manuvaidya on 2009-02-27
what happened lykwydchykyn ???? dont wanna help me with this issue????

---

### Post by Elfy on 2009-02-27
Install ntfs-config

```
sudo apt-get install ntfs-config
```

Once installed there will be a GUI tool in System Tools - use that to add the drive to fstab.

It will be on the desktop when you reboot.

Please use descriptive title on threads - makes life easier for everyone.

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2009-02-27
> **manuvaidya said:**
> what happened lykwydchykyn ???? dont wanna help me with this issue????

Had to do this little thing called "sleep".  I'm not a robot, friend.

---

### Post by manuvaidya on 2009-02-28
thanks forestpixie..... i appreciate ur help

& sorry lykwydchykyn..... i didnt know that u were sleeping.... anyway i am sorry if i have hurted ur feelings.... thanks for ur help.

---

