---
title: "14.04 Installation guide to get everything working?"
date: 2014-04-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by flyfishingphil on 2014-04-20
I have been around for a while and have used Ubuntu for some time but am still a total "noob" when it comes to doing anything. (Old head injury and even forget my name sometimes so everything must start with "Turn computer on>>>". Have a desktop so can read instructions on it while applying to laptop.) 

Picked up an HP 2530p, (see signature) found problems with Win7 missing a bunch of stuff so did a download and installed 14.04 by itself. I am now on my 3rd re-install of 14.04 and trying to get various actions to work right. In this install, so far, all I have done is remove the Ubuntu Web Browser and Thunderbird Email, went into software and added in the Canonical Partners and Source code. Now for a bunch of questions I can't find answers to. (I'd say that's probably because I don't ask it the "right" way.)

1. When doing the Canonical Partners I saw the list of Keys and was wondering if I need any of those to get anything else to work correctly. Any that I might need to add?
      Key list: 437D05B5 2004-09-12; FBB75451 2004-12-30; COBZ21F32 2012-05-11; EFE21092 2012-05-11; 3ESC1192 2010-09-20 (Noted year dates. 2012's applicable?)

2. I subscribe to Amazon, and like to use the laptop to view when wife's asleep, and thought it might now be working in conjunction with 14.04. Tried it and found all that I can get to work is the search mode. Unable to view videos because it pops up the "Adobe Flash required". Checked and Shockwave Flas 11.2.202.350 shows an is set as "always activate". Is there a way to udate/upgrade the Adobe to make it workable, or a way around the problem?

3. Tried Chromium, in last 14.04 install, and when it came time to view an Amazon video it indicated video quality of 348 Kbits/sec & 480P. Any way to correct this and use it as the viewer if I can't do it thru Firefox? (No problems viewing Netflix, Amazon or DirecTV on the desktop, using Win7, hard wired into router. 20GB speed rate on service.)

4. Real basic here! What/where is the "Super" key that is referred to in several instances? Don't remember seeing that referred to in 12.04 and have seen several references on doing things refer to hold the "Super" key while doing something else.

5. Don't like the security problems but have a couple of places that require Java. Any problems/suggestions on installing it in 14.04? (Site directions get a little confusing when it says "open folder you stored it in. Wait, what? It's still in download. What folder and how do I get it there?)

If you know of any lists, that are safe and correct, regarding getting everything up to speed please let me know. I did try a couple of them in an earlier install but found they really didn't make anything sem to work any better on things like Netflix and Amazon. One was labeled 10 steps after installing and the other was 14 steps after installing.

Thanks for the assist and the patience.

ffp

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-04-20
1. I can't give a list of the software included in the partners repository, but there is no harm in enabling it. 
4. The super key  often has a Windows symbol depending on computer vendor and is located near Ctrl and Alt.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-04-20
Over the years since I showed an interest in computers (before Windows was anything more than a novelty) I have seen many magazine articles dealing with the subject of speeding up Windows. It seems that evry version of Windows needs speeding up after awhile. I do not think that the same thing applies to Linux. I really do not. Of course there are many ways in which we, the users, can mess up the OS. After saying that I doubt that there is very much we can do to the OS if the problem is with third party suppliers such as Amazon and Netflix. With video quality a lot depends on the power of the graphic adapter and its capabilities.

Adobe stopped providing a Linux flash version the other year. The already existing editions of Flash for Linux are still available and the Ubuntu Software Centre will download and install a Mozilla flash plugin installer which in turn will install adobe flash for us which will also work with Chromium as well as Firefox.The software centre also has Pepper Flash Player Browser Plugin that extracts the Pepper flash player from Chrome and installs it in Chromium. That might have better abilities than Adobe flash player because it is receiving more development work.

And again we can install Java through the software centre. I have a lot more trust in packages available through the software centre than I do with packages downloaded from the Internet. The install instructions are far simpler to start with.

Regards.

---

### Post by grumblebum2 on 2014-04-20
Couple of links that may help.
[**_[COLOR="#B22222"]Install oracle java[/COLOR]_**]("http://www.webupd8.org/2012/09/install-oracle-java-8-in-ubuntu-via-ppa.html")
[**_[COLOR="#B22222"]Tweaks To Do After Install Of Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty Tahr[/COLOR]_**]("http://www.noobslab.com/2014/04/thingstweaks-to-do-after-install-of.html")

---

### Post by ebutts531 on 2014-04-20
in regards to the amazon issue, this works for me with no issues

sudo add-apt-repository **ppa:mjblenner/ppa-hal** sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install hal

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-04-20
#5 (if you are referring to your browser)


[https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/use-java-plugin-to-view-interactive-content](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/use-java-plugin-to-view-interactive-content)

---

### Post by flyfishingphil on 2014-04-20
Thanks all for the assists so far. Getting some to work is better than spinning the wheels like I had done for 2 days.

graham. Had tried the openJDK in earlier versions of Ubuntu but it never seemed to work right. This time, after clicking about a dozen times on permission boxes at 1 site, it seems to be working OK. I'll try it for a few days and if any problems will post here. Thanks. (Thanks anyway ibjsb4. Will avoid Oracle JAVA if possible and IcedTea seems to work as well.)

ebutts351..Thanks for the hal link. Hit that and Amazon video worked first try. Just wondering how long it will be around though. Saw listings elsewhere stating it will be dead before long and the only hope is that everbody gets over to HTML5 before hal dies.

Now wait and see if anybody has a solution to the Netflix requirements.

---

