---
title: "10.10 Installation problem"
date: 2011-02-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Possom on 2011-02-21
Downloaded 10.10 to laptop. Came as iso file. After unzip on the HD I ran wubi.exe which seemed to complete the installation however on choosing to boot into Ubuntu all I get is a colorful but blank screen with no way out and no way in other than power reset. Help.

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-02-22
What sort of graphics card do you have? If nvidia, try the nomodeset kernel boot option.

For wubi install's first boot into Ubuntu: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10089820&postcount=8](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10089820&postcount=8)
Subsequent boots: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)

---

### Post by Possom on 2011-02-22
Problem modification: Onboard integrated display=Radeon IGP 320 M with ATI driver. Grub seems to work in that it gets to log in. It offers my name to log in under then looks for a password which I don't recall having the option to supply during download/setup. It's after trying my generic PW that the screen goes to an assortment of pastels and locks up the machine with only a power off reset option.

---

### Post by SE7EN-LOCSTA on 2011-02-22
were you trying to actually install it to a different partition than windows, or run it in windows?

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-02-23
> **Possom said:**
> Problem modification: Onboard integrated display=Radeon IGP 320 M with ATI driver. Grub seems to work in that it gets to log in. It offers my name to log in under then looks for a password which I don't recall having the option to supply during download/setup. It's after trying my generic PW that the screen goes to an assortment of pastels and locks up the machine with only a power off reset option.

Is this the netbook edition i.e. using the Unity desktop? If so you can click on your user name while logging on, but before completing, look on the bottom and change the session back to gnome desktop.

---

### Post by Possom on 2011-02-23
Trying to install to a separate partition. Just a garden variety laptop installation planned.

---

### Post by Possom on 2011-03-01
After trying a new download, burn to CD and install of 10.10 desktop, on boot I can get to the screen where "Ubuntu" is displayed and the machine locks up. Is it possible that 10.10 will not run on my older Emachine with the Athlone and 500 mb of memory? I'd try an older version if available but I don't know if 10.04 or 9.04 are available. The same thing happens if I try to boot from the CD and just "try" Ubuntu.

---

