---
title: "P2p"
date: 2009-09-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by karthick87 on 2009-09-08
Can some one tell me what is meant by peer 2 peer..

---

### Post by OffAxis on 2009-09-08
peer to peer is when you have computers connected together without a central domain server.

Examples would be sharing files on a LAN, the Windows 'Workgroup' system, or bit-torrent clients.

LAN gaming is peer to peer as well.

---

### Post by cak3 on 2009-09-08
Usually that refers to operations done directly between clients (without a server). Most commonly, you will see that in the context of file sharing. Torrents are a good example of a peer 2 peer file sharing service.

EDIT: Somebody beat me to it. Oh well.

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2009-09-08
Can some explain me with an working exaple.

---

### Post by Excedio on 2009-09-08
> **getyourkarthick said:**
> Can some explain me with an working exaple.
 
Allow me to answer with another quote...
 
> **OffAxis said:**
> *snip*LAN gaming is peer to peer as well.
 
Other examples are programs like Napster or Lime Wire. Torrent downloads are peer to peer. One person directly to another.

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2009-09-08
I mean i want to know the working process.

---

### Post by Excedio on 2009-09-08
> **getyourkarthick said:**
> I mean i want to know the working process.
 
 
Here is what a Google search produced when I typed "How does peer to peer work"
 
[http://www.ehow.com/how-does_4922890_peer-peer-file-sharing-work.html](http://www.ehow.com/how-does_4922890_peer-peer-file-sharing-work.html)
 
Google is beautiful...

---

### Post by misfitpierce on 2009-09-08
Peer 2 Peer is most commonly used to refer to file sharing such as limewire, frostwire, etc etc

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2009-09-09
Hi Mr.Excedio i have read your post,what is meant by seed there?__[U][U]
[/U][/U]

---

