---
title: "2.6.32-22 versus 2.6.34-020634"
date: 2010-06-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Mark_in_Hollywood on 2010-06-04
To get the K10 temp module working in LM-Sensors, I have installed a more up to date kernel: 2.6.34-020634, than is being offered as an update by Update Manager, today. Update Mgr. is offering: 2.6.32-22. 

If I allow this earlier kernel to be installed, will it compromise my 2.6.34-xx? Will it confuse Grub2?

---

### Post by nhasian on 2010-06-04
nope it wont bother you.  you can go ahead and update so it stops pestering you :)

---

### Post by ashwinhgtx on 2010-06-04
May I ask how you managed to install that newer version of the kernel? 



Also how come the Update Manager doesn't recognize the newer kernel?

---

### Post by nhasian on 2010-06-04
see my post [here]("http://www.uluga.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9348970&postcount=8") on how to install the latest kernel.  The update-manager will not upgrade you to a different kernel.  you will get a new kernel with the next release of ubuntu.  if you want to install the latest kernel yourself however, just follow my instructions and you'll be all set.

> **ashwinhgtx said:**
> May I ask how you managed to install that newer version of the kernel? 
Also how come the Update Manager doesn't recognize the newer kernel?

---

### Post by ashwinhgtx on 2010-06-04
> **nhasian said:**
> see my post [here]("http://www.uluga.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9348970&postcount=8") on how to install the latest kernel.  The update-manager will not upgrade you to a different kernel.  you will get a new kernel with the next release of ubuntu.  if you want to install the latest kernel yourself however, just follow my instructions and you'll be all set.

Thanks :)

---

