---
title: "32 vs 64 bit?"
date: 2009-10-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lestatius on 2009-10-11
What's the difference between 32 and 64 bit Ubuntu? I know for Windows is has to do with 32 bit only being able to allocate so much of the actual physical memory and 64 bit being able to go beyond that?

---

### Post by XCan on 2009-10-11
Edit (clarification):
It's the same in Ubuntu compared with Windows. :)

First and foremost you will be able to utilize more memory which may be the main reasons for an upgrade for the regular user. However, there is a slight overhead due to addressing a larger memory space, which usually should not be of concern if you want to utilize a larger amount of memory. There are also reports of on apps that will perform better under native 64 bit compared with their 32 bit counterparts. Again, the cases vary, sometimes the performance gain is significant, other times, there are none. A third point is the numerical precision, or machine epsilon of your computer. Although some people claim that 64-bit is important in numerical linear algebra, due to the increased precision, it is debatable whether or not it would warrant for an architecture change by itself. If your algorithm is unstable (in the backward-stable sense) you should foremost look into your algorithm. As long as your computer has a limited precision, your errors will explode sooner or later if you are forced to use an unstable algorithm, try classical Gram-Schmidt or Gaussian Elimination.

Now I'm rambling too much, bottom line. You will experience the same general benefits between Windows and Ubuntu.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2009-10-11
Yeh memory allocation is the major difference between the two, and arguably performance as some say 64bit gives more boost.
But overall there is little difference between them

---

### Post by beastrace91 on 2009-10-11
The amount of memory allocation is the case for the difference between all 32bit and 64bit OSes. The max for a 32bit OS is around 3.5gigs (depending).

64bit OS also allows you to use your 64bit processor to its full potential. If you have a 64bit processor you should use the 64bit OS. (At least in the case of Linux)

~Jeff

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-10-11
Generally some find 64bit to be a bit smoother and faster, but it general you're probably going to run into some issues that you wouldn't on 32bit.

---

### Post by amheuwr on 2009-10-11
I found the tuxradar article [[COLOR="Blue"]here[/COLOR]]("http://www.tuxradar.com/content/ubuntu-904-32-bit-vs-64-bit-benchmarks") very useful. Well worth a read.

---

### Post by misfitpierce on 2009-10-11
> **XCan said:**
> It's the same in Ubuntu. :)

False... 64 bit gives noticable difference in speed on various things. Such as if you use slab menu and you click more applications it shows up far faster on 64 bit than 32 bit... Many operations are performed much faster since the 64 bit architecture is much better at handling them. So to say they are the same is False! 64 bit is a better architecture and should be tried if you have the proper specs to run 64 bit.

---

### Post by XCan on 2009-10-11
And you mean the same doesn't hold true for Windows?

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2009-10-11
> **misfitpierce said:**
> False... 64 bit gives noticable difference in speed on various things. Such as if you use slab menu and you click more applications it shows up far faster on 64 bit than 32 bit... Many operations are performed much faster since the 64 bit architecture is much better at handling them. So to say they are the same is False! 64 bit is a better architecture and should be tried if you have the proper specs to run 64 bit.

This is correct, 64-bit will provide you noticeable performance increases in photo/video editing, number crunching and generally any native 64-bit is going to outperform the equivalent 32-bit.  Also you will be able to access much more RAM and wont be limited in the amount the OS can use.  

There are many advanctages to using 64-bit and as misfitpierce said for the other posters to say they are the same is just ridiculous.  Usually the people who say they are the same or there is not much difference usually either dont have the capability to run 64-bit or have decided to listen to other peoples previous experiences which could be old and irrelevant now 64-bit has its own native packages and drivers.

---

### Post by XCan on 2009-10-11
To clarify, I was referring to the general differences between 32-bit and 64-bit Windows and 32-bit and 64-bit Ubuntu.

---

