---
title: "resolution problems"
date: 2009-02-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-02-26
I am having some real issues with one of the users on my Ubuntu 8.10 computer.  I have two users set up as Home, but with different names.  On the one that I use daily which has the least privileges, I cannot get in and use it, as I having error messages that are preventing it from loading.  I don't know if this is a resolution problem or if it is something else.  I do know that it has been running REALLY slow in comparison to the other user on this.  I am going to log off and see if I can get the error messages.  Below is some info on the computer.  I got it from [http://www.amitsrivastava.net/2008-03-23-hibernate-suspend-resolved-ubuntu-gutsy-nvidia-dell-vostro/](http://www.amitsrivastava.net/2008-03-23-hibernate-suspend-resolved-ubuntu-gutsy-nvidia-dell-vostro/) as it started out as a hibernation problem wherein I could not get back into the computer after hitting lock screen or sometimes when it hibernated.  The screen would just go black and there  was nothing I could do but hit reset and reboot the computer.  When I get back into this user, I'll post the error messages.

So, the info below is from a terminal 

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection



# This file lists those modules which we don't want to be loaded by
# alias expansion, usually so some other driver will be loaded for the
# device instead.

# evbug is a debug tool that should be loaded explicitly
blacklist evbug

# these drivers are very simple, the HID drivers are usually preferred
blacklist usbmouse
blacklist usbkbd

# replaced by e100
blacklist eepro100

# replaced by tulip
blacklist de4x5

# causes no end of confusion by creating unexpected network interfaces
blacklist eth1394

# snd_intel8x0m can interfere with snd_intel8x0, doesn't seem to support much
# hardware on its own (Ubuntu bug #2011, #6810)
blacklist snd_intel8x0m

# Conflicts with dvb driver (which is better for handling this device)
blacklist snd_aw2

# causes failure to suspend on HP compaq nc6000 (Ubuntu: #10306)
blacklist i2c_i801

# replaced by p54pci
blacklist prism54

# replaced by b43 and ssb.
blacklist bcm43xx

# most apps now use garmin usb driver directly (Ubuntu: #114565)
blacklist garmin_gps

# replaced by asus-laptop (Ubuntu: #184721)
blacklist asus_acpi

# low-quality, just noise when being used for sound playback, causes
# hangs at desktop session start (Ubuntu: #246969)
blacklist snd_pcsp

---

### Post by anico on 2009-02-26
we seem to be on the same boat! 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1080980](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1080980)

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-02-26
Yeah us!!!  ;)

Well, the error messages that froze my computer is the following that was in a window, the computer freezes after this.:

An error occurred while loading configuration information for evolution alarm notify.  Some of your configuration settings may not work Properly.Then after clicking details:  Failed to contact configuration server:  Some possible problems are that you need to enable TCP/IP networking for ORBIT, or you have stale NFS locks due to a system crash.  See [http://www.gnome.org/projects/gconf](http://www.gnome.org/projects/gconf) for more info.  Details 1.  Could not send message to gconf daemon.  Message did not receive a reply (timeout by message bus)

Leading up to this, this user has seemed to cause the computer to operate slower than the other user on this computer.  Additionally, when it switches from the log on screen to the regular screen, the screen gets garbled and then all is well.  Tonight, when the computer went to screen saver, the screen went fritz and then I had to reboot to get into it, then I saw the above error message.

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-02-26
> **anico said:**
> we seem to be on the same boat! 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1080980](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1080980)

I think I have half of your problem and half something else.  On you r thread, on post #5, I to get the same message:  possibly-costumised configuration file; back up found in /ect/x11/xorg.conf.20090226011704

The thing is, I have some very important info on this side of the computer that i need to get to, and I cannot.

If I can merge the home settings/ documents/KMyMoney etc to another user, then it would be okay.  Better yet, I need to get into that side.

---

### Post by anico on 2009-02-26
yeah haha i do think you have something slightly different going on there! I found a file /ect/x11/xorg.conf.1 and it showed the command that i typed.. the "option NvAGN..." .. i deleted that and rebooted.. it logged me in a little slower than usual but my screen resolution and everything seems to be alright. I'm wondering whether this slowness will continue though! i'll check on another user to see any difference! good luck to you!

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-02-26
Thanks anico!

---

### Post by anico on 2009-02-26
myolbug..ubuntu is just slow now no matter what user i'm logged on to. I honestly wish i could help you get your files but i'm very new to ubuntu and i'm clueless as to solving these kind of problems :-s ... I hope someone in this very friendly forum can help you!;)

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-02-26
OK, try getting into your machine by rebooting into recovery mode and selecting to go to the command shell.

When you get a terminal prompt type

```
startx
```

do you get a GUI?

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-02-26
I don't know if it is slow.  I was running 8.04 and it was actually pretty fast, but in the older pc that  upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10 I noticed it has slowed down.  I think that it is only because I have a slow pc.  I know that when I get a new computer SOON!  I am going to run 8.10, from a fresh install then I am going to use my current HD in an enclosure, so as to have access to the files in it.

Back on topic, does anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-02-26
> **Peter09 said:**
> OK, try getting into your machine by rebooting into recovery mode and selecting to go to the command shell.

When you get a terminal prompt type

```
startx
```

do you get a GUI?


I get part of a GUI when I log in to the home user.  It changes the screen from all black to the Ubuntu color, like it is going to load Home, but it hangs there and gives me the error windows.  

However, I can log in as another user, and everything works great, it is just the HOME user.  I don't know if my 4 year old did something or not, but for home, I have very limited privileges, just enough to allow it to be used, no Admin type rights at all.

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-02-26
OK, to reset a particular users set up you need to get to the command shell, most probably by going into recovery mode.

once there get to the users directory by

```
cd /home/<the users name>
```

then delete the current set up
```
rm -rf .gnome .gnome2 .gconf .gconfd .metacity
```

When you restart and log into the user gnome will reconfigure the GUI to the default settings.

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-02-26
> **Peter09 said:**
> OK, to reset a particular users set up you need to get to the command shell, most probably by going into recovery mode.

once there get to the users directory by

```
cd /home/<the users name>
```

then delete the current set up
```
rm -rf .gnome .gnome2 .gconf .gconfd .metacity
```

When you restart and log into the user gnome will reconfigure the GUI to the default settings.

When I do this, will I lose any of the info that is under this user?  In other words, will this erase the user and bring it back to a brand new sate, or does it maintain the folders, pics, etc?
***Kinda paranoid....***:p

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-02-26
It only removes the gnome settings, none of your data is touched.

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-02-26
You are my hero!!  I did lose all of the emails, contacts, etc in Evolution, but I think I have a backup somewhere.  However, it is a small price to pay considering that I couldn't get into that user, and I think it was something in Evolution that was causing the problem.  I am just happy to be able to be back in!

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-02-26
This thread is solved.  I am just trying to find the thread about how to mark it as such.

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-02-26
I'm surprised you lost your evolution stuff, although I do not use evolution so am not really able to test this.

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-03-05
Well, my computer started acting up again, so i tried the command again, now it is back to where I started with this thread.

Any ideas, or did I screw myself?

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-03-05
If I have messed up, is there a way to access that user's information from either root or an admin user?

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-03-05
> **Peter09 said:**
> I'm surprised you lost your evolution stuff, although I do not use evolution so am not really able to test this.

Part of the error message I got was something about evelution not working

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-03-05
Bump.  I really need to know if I can recover the info on this.

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-03-05
Does anyone know?  Is there a better forum for this to be in?

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-03-06
Hi,
this thread is now a bt too long and the prolems that you have are neot clearly defined. It might be worth starting a new thread and provide details of the problem you are having.

Is it just with one user?
What error messages are you getting?

---

