---
title: "9.10 and ati radeon hd3450"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by thomz92 on 2009-11-04
i have an ati radeon hd3450 512mb graphics card and it didn't seem to work at all with 9.10. i tried to boot from the live cd but it would only boot to a text login. whats really weird is that the text login kept blinking and i could only type a letter when i could see the text (which made typing the password impossible because i couldn't tell if i had typed anything or not). Anyway, i installed ubuntu with the alternate cd and then tried to boot from the harddrive, but it did the same thing as with the live cd. finally i put my older nvidia card in there just for now.

i really want to get my ati card to work. i looked at their website and it seems like it supports linux. i then checked in 9.10 software repositories and found an "ati catalyst control center" or something like that. is that the driver i need? or something else? how would i go about installing it? install it first and then shutdown and put the video card in? or something else?

thanks

---

### Post by tomsyco on 2009-11-04
I slapped the same card in my pc and had the same probem. I would really like to get this card working because it has hdmi.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-11-04
> **thomz92 said:**
> i have an ati radeon hd3450 512mb graphics card and it didn't seem to work at all with 9.10. i tried to boot from the live cd but it would only boot to a text login. whats really weird is that the text login kept blinking and i could only type a letter when i could see the text (which made typing the password impossible because i couldn't tell if i had typed anything or not). Anyway, i installed ubuntu with the alternate cd and then tried to boot from the harddrive, but it did the same thing as with the live cd. finally i put my older nvidia card in there just for now.

i really want to get my ati card to work. i looked at their website and it seems like it supports linux. i then checked in 9.10 software repositories and found an "ati catalyst control center" or something like that. is that the driver i need? or something else? how would i go about installing it? install it first and then shutdown and put the video card in? or something else?

thanks
i have an ati hd3650, which is a similar card to yours.
you have a couple of options at this point.

install the ubuntu drivers (may have problems with high xorg memory use, see 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/xserver-xorg-driver-vesa/+bug/450048](https://bugs.launchpad.net/xserver-xorg-driver-vesa/+bug/450048))

install the drivers using envyng
```

sudo apt-get install envyng-core
sudo envyng -t

```

or downloading the driver from the ati site and installing it.

using envyng is preferred.

---

### Post by thomz92 on 2009-11-04
has anybody had any success with envyng and hd3450?

---

### Post by togo59 on 2009-11-06
+1 Does EnvyNG fix it? (btw: this is available from Applications -> Ubuntu Software Centre -> System Tools)

I have an HD 3400 but will wait for 2.6.32. > KMS support for R6xx and R7xx GPUs of the Radeon HD series 2000, 3000 and 4000 will be added in Linux 2.6.32. See [[COLOR="Blue"]_ h-online_[/COLOR] ]("http://www.h-online.com/open/features/The-Next-Round-The-new-features-of-Linux-2-6-31-746619.html") for more details and follow the links.

---

### Post by thomz92 on 2009-11-07
bump...

---

### Post by another_sam on 2009-11-08
be careful, but you can easily try the 2.6.32 with:
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.32-rc6/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.32-rc6/)

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-11-08
See if the 9.04 live cd works.  If it works you might be able to install, then upgrade to 9.10

I am curious about this issue though...I have a 3650, but I haven't used the 9.10 live cd yet.

---

### Post by thomz92 on 2009-11-09
i think i'm gonna end up selling this card and buying an nvidia one or something. i heard some people got it working but there were weird bugs and stuff and i dont want to mess around with that. thanks anyway! :P

---

### Post by halitech on 2009-11-09
> **carlee said:**
> i have an ati hd3650, which is a similar card to yours.
you have a couple of options at this point.

install the ubuntu drivers (may have problems with high xorg memory use, see 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/xserver-xorg-driver-vesa/+bug/450048](https://bugs.launchpad.net/xserver-xorg-driver-vesa/+bug/450048))

install the drivers using envyng
```

sudo apt-get install envyng-core
sudo envyng -t

```

or downloading the driver from the ati site and installing it.

using envyng is preferred.

actually I would go
1. - Ubuntu hardware drivers
2. download from ati site and install
3. envy

reason I list envy last is because alot of people have issues that come into the IRC chat where envy has hosed systems. I agree its nice and easy but it does cause issues.

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-11-09
deleted, wrong thread

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-11-09
I just set up the ATi drivers in Karmic for my HD4870 with a package based install using pretty much the same method posted here:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide)

Granted it's for Jaunty, but the only difference is when you're building the deb packages - specify Karmic instead of Jaunty like:
```
sh ati-driver-installer-9-10-x86.x86_64.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/jaunty 
```
I did get some sort of error processing one of the packages, but it hasn't affected me yet anyway.

Give the packaged based install a shot, I've been using it for a year or so now and it hasn't failed on me yet.

---

