---
title: "14.04 LTS will not boot."
date: 2018-05-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by acromind on 2018-05-10
I&#8217;ve been using Ubuntu 14.04 LTS for several years on a Dell Inspiron 3541 laptop.  Ubuntu is installed on an external HDD.  Windows 10 is on the laptop.  I recently attempted to install PeachOSI BB 64 bit on an external SSD from a thumb drive.  The Ubuntu drive was disconnected during this.  After the installation ( which was unsuccessful ) I plugged the Ubuntu drive back in and it would not boot.  Windows 10 will boot from the internal drive.

I no longer get the grub screen.  I get:
   >>Checking Media Presence
   >>Media Present
And then something about IpV4.

---

### Post by yancek on 2018-05-10
Not possible to tell what happened without a lot more information.  Since Peach OSI is an Ubuntu derivative, it may have overwritten the Ubuntu EFI files on the internal hard drive if that's where they were and if you were booting UEFI.  Pretty likely the case as that is how windows is installed and not installing another system UEFI in that case is going to result in a somewhat convoluted boot process.

If you have a DVD or flash drive with Ubuntu you can use it to get boot repair.  You should/might be able to use the Peach DVD/flash drive also as it is an Ubuntu derivative.  Go to the site below and select the 2nd option to get boot repair.  After downloading it, run it per the instructions on the page and make sure you select the Create BootInfo Summary option.  Do NOT try to make any repairs.  When it finishes, it will give you a link which you can post here so that members will have access to necessary information about your system.  When you do this, obviously you will need the external drive with Ubuntu attached.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)

---

### Post by acromind on 2018-05-11
Thank you yancek for replying.

I did as you said and here is the link:  [http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/GqCqyG63Rx/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/GqCqyG63Rx/)

---

### Post by yancek on 2018-05-11
Your boot repair shows you have a 1TB drive on which you have various windows partitions.  The first partition on the drive is an EFI partition so in all likelihood, both windows 10 and Ubuntu were booting from their respective boot files on that partition .  Since you have an EFI system, reboot and watch the screen immediately after booting for a key to use to access the BIOS and/or boot options.  Could be F2, F9, Esc or several other keys but it should show at the bottom of the screen.  See if you have an option to select to Boot from EFI file or an Ubuntu option and select that.  If this works to boot Ubuntu, post back and some will be able to tell you how to set the Ubuntu to first boot priority so you can select either  Ubuntu or windows from Grub.

There is a grub.cfg file in the EFI partition and if you take a look at that, it should indicate which system partition it is pointing to.  This is a very small file so it would help if you posted the contents.  Since you can't boot Ubuntu, use the PeachOS usb and boot to a Desktop, open a terminal and run the following commands.

> sudo mkdir /mnt/efi
sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt/efi   

Hit the enter key after each command then run the following and post the output, the first line should be all you need.  The command below is case sensitive so best to copy/paste it.  If this is the Ubuntu entry, the end of the first line should show:  root hd1,gpt9  (it might be root hd2,gpt9 as you had another drive attached at the time, in any case if it is not gpt9, it's not Ubuntu) 

> sudo cat /mnt/efi/EFI/ubuntu/grub.cfg

Just a side note, if you look toward the bottom of the boot repair output you will see a number of messages indicating windows is in an unsafe state.  That means you have hibernation/fastboot on.  Best to turn it off.

---

### Post by acromind on 2018-05-12
In regards to the first paragraph, I am very familiar with changing boot order and priority.  I have tried every possible combination and none will boot Ubuntu.

I did as you said and here is the info:   search.fs_uuid 7bf9c6af-26a5-4c38-aace-898981305889 root hd1,gpt1

---

### Post by yancek on 2018-05-12
> search.fs_uuid 7bf9c6af-26a5-4c38-aace-898981305889 root hd1,gpt1

Which tells us that although your PeachOS install eventually failed, it did overwrite your Ubuntu entry in the EFI folder.  I'm not sure this will work but you could try changing that entry to point to the Ubuntu partition.  If that fails, you will probably have to chroot and re-install Grub.  Change (as root/sudo) the grub.cfg file in the efi folder for ubuntu to the below, correct UUID and partition.

> search.fs_uuid 
7afc97e2-6dfa-4258-b001-85c4192be0b7root hd2,gpt9

The UUID in your last post doesn't exist in your boot repair output, most likely because it was the UUID for the partition on which you were trying to install Peach and which you 
no longer had/have attached.  It need to point to the Ubuntu partition, sdc9.  Since you have changed devices, it might be hd1 or hd0 but I would try hd2 first.

---

### Post by acromind on 2018-05-12
I tried all three combinations you suggested - hd0,1 and 2.  None of those booted Ubuntu.  However, I did get a grub screen with a grub command line. Is there something I can enter there that will help?  Also, should I change the grub.cfg file back to the original setting?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-05-12
Was that with flash drive plugged in or not? I find that changes my drive number up one when flash drive plugged in.


You have a lot of kernels. Best to houseclean old ones.
       [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2308938&p=13418808#post13418808](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2308938&p=13418808#post13418808)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RemoveOldKernels](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RemoveOldKernels)

Generally with UEFI you use gpt partitioning. Windows requires it.
You have Ubuntu on a MBR(msdos) partitioned drive, but are booting thru the ESP - efi system partition on sda which is gpt partitioned. If it works, probably best not to change now, but next time you refomat drive, change to gpt partitioning.


 GPT Advantages (older 2010 but still valid)  see post#2 by srs5694:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1457901](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1457901)
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GUID_Partition_Table#Advantages_of_GPT](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GUID_Partition_Table#Advantages_of_GPT)
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_Extensible_Firmware_Interface](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_Extensible_Firmware_Interface)

---

### Post by acromind on 2018-05-14
Thank you oldfred for replying.

To answer your question, it was with the flash drive plugged in.  I did try it with the number one less ( gpt8 instead of gpt9) and there is no difference.

Thank you for the info and advice.

---

### Post by acromind on 2018-05-14
I have an idea for solving the problem and I would like your opinions.

Ubuntu is on a 500GB HDD and there is plenty of room to install Ubuntu again.  If I do so will it overwrite the files that PeachOSI overwrote and give me an Ubuntu boot?

If it does,  will I be able to boot both Ubuntu distros from that drive and still boot Windows 10 from the internal drive?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-05-14
Again, you must be consistent whether UEFI or BIOS. And with external drives there are two ways to boot with UEFI. Ubuntu's grub only installs to the first drive's ESP. And that entry will boot an external directly. But UEFI can boot an external drive also, but it only uses /EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi.  (That is how both Windows & Ubuntu's installers boot, but boox64.efi is obviously a different actual file. I do suggest having an ESP on every drive, particularly external drives. But it may not be immediately used.

And Ubuntu only will have one entry in ESP. I have multiple drives, and my default boot still is 16.04, but each of my new test installs of 18.04 over writes the /EFI/Ubuntu entry in the ESP. I can still boot 16.04 from new grub but have to manually change /EFI/ubuntu/grub.cfg to point to my 16.04 install and update its grub.cfg to find new install.

I use 25GB to 30GB for each of my Ubuntu installs. And that includes /home, but I have all my data in a /mnt/data partition so I can mount all the same data into every install. Then my /home is tiny as it really only has the hidden user configuration files.

---

