---
title: "Can Ping websites, but can't browse the internet"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ironside on 2009-11-04
Hi everyone,

I have been searching the forums to try and solve an internet browsing problem. I have upgraded to 9.10 and relatively new to Ubuntu. Unfortunately I have had internet access with no issues when i  upgraded, however I have just gone overseas and now I can't browse the internet. I have entered terminal and can ping websites with not issues, I can even connect to skype and make calls but when i try and browse the internet or download updates, email it times out. I have changed the DNS setting to Open DNS in the network manager however this has not solved the problem. Could some please help?

---

### Post by Gorlist on 2009-11-04
im not sure of the problem as per say, however it seems to be Firefox related? 

Can you "wget" a file from the web through the terminal? and have you tried renaming the .mozilla directory to temporarily move it out of the way so FF creates a new config? (seems worth a try).

Ah just re-read your post, effects more than the browser. 

Are you connecting through a network to access the internet? or wireless/ASDL modem?

Almost sounds as if port 8080 is being blocked?

---

### Post by ironside on 2009-11-04
Just trying to connect thru a wireless AP. Funny thing is I was at the airport the other day and could connect to multiple wireless AP but the download was incredibly slow. Now I can ping websites from terminal but can't download from terminal or complete updates. But skype works fine, no issues in recieving files or voice.

---

### Post by NickJones on 2009-11-04
Try installing another browser.

---

### Post by kiff on 2009-11-04
I have had similar trouble. I could ping sites without trouble, but couldn't connect to anything.

When I navigated to about:config in Firefox, and changed the **network.dns.disableIPv6** option to **true**, I was able to use firefox to browse the web, but no other applications can access the internet.

I have tried 
[LIST]
[*][[COLOR="Blue"]disabling IPv6 by updating the GRUB menu.lst file[/COLOR]]("http://www.ubuntu-inside.me/2009/04/howto-disable-ipv6-at-ubuntu-jaunty.html")
[*]Installing [[COLOR="Blue"]kernel 2.6.31-12[/COLOR]]("http://people.canonical.com/~apw/lp386468-karmic/")
[*]updating network manager by [[COLOR="Blue"]downloading files posted on this thread[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1303876&page=4")
[/LIST]

And a bunch of other options in the last 72 hours, all to no avail. This was never an issue for me in Jaunty. I have heard a number of people on these forums confirming that there are known issues with karmic, but most of the ones I have come across are supposed to be fixed. Can anyone suggest anything we might be missing? Being able to ping and use firefox but not to be able to do anything else is pretty frustrating.

---

### Post by liquidbee on 2009-11-04
```
curl http://www.whatismyip.org

```

Does it return a blank page ( no output ) ?

---

### Post by ironside on 2009-11-04
Unfortunately curl is not install and upon trying to install its saying not available. Pretty much I can't install programs from terminal. Tried updating and can't do that either.

---

### Post by ironside on 2009-11-04
Kiff I have tried the things you have tried as well. Particularly adjusting my IP address in the IPV4.

---

### Post by aw4lly on 2009-11-04
Do you have a proxy server set up? Sometimes you need a proxy address to access sites and you might have just forgotten to set your connection back to no proxy. 

Edit>Preferences>Advanced>Settings>No Proxy

---

### Post by ironside on 2009-11-05
I do not have a Proxy setup at all. One of the first things I checked.

---

### Post by kiff on 2009-11-05
> **ironside said:**
> Kiff I have tried the things you have tried as well. Particularly adjusting my IP address in the IPV4.
Did changing the Firefox config to disable IPv6 help you too?

---

### Post by ironside on 2009-11-05
Nope disabling didn't work nor install a different browser. Have you had any luck Kiff???

---

### Post by liquidbee on 2009-11-05
Can you attach your [COLOR=Blue]/etc/rc.conf[/COLOR] file ?

---

### Post by kiff on 2009-11-06
> Nope disabling didn't work nor install a different browser. Have you had any luck Kiff???

I can connect to the net via Firefox, but not using any other applications. Not sure if this means that our problems have a different source.

> Can you attach your /etc/rc.conf file ?

I don't have an /etc/rc.conf file. I do have an /etc/resolv.conf file, and an /etc/rc.local file:

resolv.conf contents:
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1

```

rc.local contents:
```
#!/bin/sh -e
#
# rc.local
#
# This script is executed at the end of each multiuser runlevel.
# Make sure that the script will "exit 0" on success or any other
# value on error.
#
# In order to enable or disable this script just change the execution
# bits.
#
# By default this script does nothing.

exit 0

```

---

### Post by ffoeg on 2010-01-05
Just wondering if this problem was ever solved? If so, what was the problem. I am having a very similar problem with a 9.10 install. It doesn't make any sense.

---

