---
title: "13.10 - Thuderbird email problem??"
date: 2014-02-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-02-01
I'm a little confused about some differences showing up for my email using Thunderbird in the latest xubuntu on an old laptop and "regular" Ubuntu 13.10 on a desktop.  I'm using both to just view, not download, my email on yahoo and on outlook.  I get the following folders, which is correct, in Thunderbird in xubuntu:
[LIST]
[*]Inbox 
[*]Drafts 
[*]Sent 
[*]Archives 
[*]Trash 
[*]--- some private folders --- 
[*]Bulk Mail (where all the junk mail ends up) 
[*]--- more private folders --- 
[/LIST]

I have some items on our local Craiglist and the emails from there show up in the "Bulk Mail" folder.

I only get the following folders, which is not correct, in Thunderbird in Ubuntu 13.10:
[LIST]
[*]Inbox 
[*]Sent 
[*]Drafts 
[*]Trash 
[/LIST]

None of the other folders show up.  Thunderbird is set to show all folders.

Any ideas why I don't see the rest of the folders in Ubuntu 13.10?

Needless to say, I'd like to see the emails from Craigslist on the desktop instead of powering up an old clunky laptop I just use for playing around on.

EDIT:  I should add, they are both running the same version of Thundebird:  24.2.0

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2014-02-01
Could you make a copy of .thunderbird from the machine that is OK

Then rename the .thunderbird on the machine that is not OK to .thunderbird-old

Then copy the .thunderbird from the OK machine to the not OK machine

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-02-01
That seems to have worked - at least the folders are showing now - I assume because they were in the local Thunderbird database from the "good" install.   However, I would still like to eventually know what the heck happened ;)   

At any rate - THANKS!!

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2014-02-01
Hard to say what happened
Only you know what you have been doing
I keep a copy of my .thunderbird folder to transfer to different machines

Same goes for .mozzila

---

