---
title: "11.04 on old laptop"
date: 2011-07-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-07-05
I have a couple of old laptops - one is a Dell 2650.  The memory is maxed out at only 512mb.  Also, the video is old GeForce 2 using only 8mb.  I know it would never run Unity, but since it is the latest LTS release I thought that eventually I'm going to need to install it.  So, I tried the LiveCD - it hangs completely without ever bringing up the desktop.  For 10.10, I have to put acpi=no in boot line or else the keyboard and mouse don't work.  I don't know how to try that option with the LiveCD.  Also, is there an alternate CD for installing 11.04?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-07-05
Why not give Xubuntu or Lubuntu a try? They are known to run well on older hardware. :)

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-07-05
Sounds like a good idea, but I do have a question or two before I do so.

I have no way to connect to the net except via wireless, and my wireless adapter requires ndiswrapper (and ndisgtk if I can get it).  So, if I download a disk for each of these to try out and I like one of them, will I have the ability to install ndiswrapper (preferably as a package with dependencies) from the installation media?  I'll have no other way to get ndiswrapper, and hence get on the net.  That is, of course, assuming I will still need it to get my rt8192cu to work.

Thanks!

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-07-06
> **wep940 said:**
> I know it would never run Unity, but since it is the latest LTS release I thought that eventually I'm going to need to install it. 
 
latest LTS is 10.04 not 11.04. 10.04 runs gnome2 (it doesn't have unity) and if you switch to clearlooks theme or some other light theme you will have quite a light environemnt using about 130-150 MB ram on boot.
 
Lubuntu will use less than 100 MB. Xubuntu uses only a little less. on 10.04 xubuntu is disaster regarding memory use.
 
latest Linux mint XFCE, Crunchbang linux XFCE or Debian XFCE will use about 100 MB ram on boot.
 
i would suggest first trying a liveCD before any install (mabye everything will work out of the box). you might be able to download ndiswrapper first before install. just put in on USB disk or something.
 
yes there is an alternate CD.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-07-06
Hummmmm - I thought 10.04 was LTS, 10.10 wasn't, but thought 11.04 was (I was thinking the .04 release were LTS releases).

---

### Post by OldBoy44 on 2011-07-06
No LTS releases every two years as - 10.04, 12.04  :P

Each are supported for three years -

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-07-06
Ahhhhh - that's what it is!  I've learned more than 1 thing today!  Thanks!  ;)

---

### Post by OldBoy44 on 2011-07-06
My pleasure - :)

---

### Post by createdcreature on 2011-07-06
OpenSuSE, Xubuntu.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-07-06
> **wep940 said:**
> Hummmmm - I thought 10.04 was LTS, 10.10 wasn't, but thought 11.04 was (I was thinking the .04 release were LTS releases).
 
 
no .04 means the release came out in April, .10 means it came out in October. first number is year.
 
so 11.04 means 2011 April
10.04 means 2010 April
 
release has LTS if it is long term support such as for exmaple 10.04 LTS
 
releases may have adidtional numbers signifying mayor updates in the image. for example 10.04.2 LTS

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-07-06
Yeah, I knew what the .04 and .10 meant in terms of months of the year - I just thought when the major number changed, like from 10 to 11, that made a new LTS release.  I've sure learned a lot here in a short time - thanks!

As far as the laptop goes, I've decided to sell it since I have another old Dell laptop (8200) with better specs and performance. 

So, I'm going to close this thread, but thank you all for the education!  ;)

---

