---
title: "11.10 -  Can login as Guest but not as me."
date: 2011-10-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by RayArdia on 2011-10-22
After many problems I finally installed 11.10. Two areas of concern:-

1. Can log in as guest but not as me! When I put my password in the screen shows only the background, no other details whereas as Guest I can access everything - except, of course my 'own' Home folder.
2. Because of the above I don't know whether all my files have been transferred from my previous 10.10 installation

---

### Post by enkay009 on 2011-10-22
If you're successfully logging in, but you're not getting the gnome-shell or unity your configuration/settings for your user might be "corrupt".

You may need to delete your old settings and then try to login again.

First you'll need to make sure you're not logged in (i.e. you're on the login screen)

Next you'll need to invoke a terminal. You can do this with CTRL+ALT+F1.

Now rename you old configuration folders to something else.

```
mv ~/.gnome2 ~/.gnome2-bkp
mv ~/.gconf ~/gconf-bkp
mv ~/.local ~/.local-bkp
mv ~/.compiz ~/.compiz-bkp
```

With that done, go back to the login screen CTRL+ALT+F7 or CTRL+ALT+F8 and try to login.

So what you'll have done now is force gnome to create new settings for you when you login.

---

### Post by computerandu on 2011-10-22
Well...this post may help you:

[http://www.computerandyou.net/2011/10/18/how-to-solve-unable-to-login-into-ubuntu-11-10/](http://www.computerandyou.net/2011/10/18/how-to-solve-unable-to-login-into-ubuntu-11-10/)

---

### Post by RayArdia on 2011-10-23
CTRL+ALT+F1 brings me to a full screen terminal, not the cosy window that I'm used to -difficult to 'copy/paste when you can't see any other windows.
Is there a solution to this?
In your post 'Now rename your old configuration folders to something else' doesn't indicate just how to do this. Can you help please?

---

### Post by enkay009 on 2011-10-23
You could also login as guest, open a terminal, and type:

```
su - username
```where username is your Linux username. And then run what's in the "rename" code block (i.e the mv commands).

What that does is it gives you terminal and then you run su (switch user) to change to yourself.

However, I would have a look at computerandu's post...

> Well...this post may help you:

[http://www.computerandyou.net/2011/1...-ubuntu-11-10/]("http://www.computerandyou.net/2011/10/18/how-to-solve-unable-to-login-into-ubuntu-11-10/")I was looking around these forums and this seems to be a common solution to this problem. What I suggested is along the same lines but not as precise. If you try the what they mentioned in the post and it doesn't work, give my solution a try. Ultimately the problem sounds like it's something in your user settings that's incompatible with unity or gnome-shell.

---

### Post by RayArdia on 2011-10-23
Thanks to all for posts. Re Enkay's suggestion, when I try the 'su - username tack I get:-

guest-nnRl3i@ray-Aspire-5735:~$ su - ray
Password: 
setgid: Operation not permitted
guest-nnRl3i@ray-Aspire-5735:~$ 

What am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by enkay009 on 2011-10-23
Hmm... I didn't realize that you weren't allow to switch user as guest. A security feature and good one at that.

Your only options seems to be to do this from CTRL+ALT+F1. You won't be  able to rely on copy/paste so you'll need to remember the name of the  file.

You can login to a guest session, open a browser windows and switch back and forth from CTRL+ALT+F1 and CTRL+ALT+F7 if you have trouble remembering the name of files.

If you know how to remove or move files then all you'll need to remember is the files/directories. If not, spend some time familiarizing yourself with rm and mv.

rm removes files
mv moves (and can technically rename) files

---

### Post by RayArdia on 2011-10-24
> **enkay009 said:**
> If you're successfully logging in, but you're not getting the gnome-shell or unity your configuration/settings for your user might be "corrupt".

You may need to delete your old settings and then try to login again.

First you'll need to make sure you're not logged in (i.e. you're on the login screen)

Next you'll need to invoke a terminal. You can do this with CTRL+ALT+F1.

Now rename you old configuration folders to something else.

```
mv ~/.gnome2 ~/.gnome2-bkp
mv ~/.gconf ~/gconf-bkp
mv ~/.local ~/.local-bkp
mv ~/.compiz ~/.compiz-bkp
```



With that done, go back to the login screen CTRL+ALT+F7 or CTRL+ALT+F8 and try to login.

So what you'll have done now is force gnome to create new settings for you when you login.

Have tried this,(after printing out your instructions in BIG font so I didn't make mistakes)b but no joy.
Clearly I can only do it from the login screen, not from Guest, or after I'm 'logged in' as me with a completely blank backgound screen.
do I need to change dir from my home one, eg to root, and if so have forgotten how to do it. 
Could I please have a little more help?
Ray

---

### Post by RayArdia on 2011-10-24
Input of:-
mv ~/.gnome2 ~/.gnome2-bkp
mv ~/.gconf ~/gconf-bkp
mv ~/.local ~/.local-bkp
mv ~/.compiz ~/.compiz-bkp
resulted in, apparently, nothing at all.
Ray

---

### Post by enkay009 on 2011-10-24
Okay just a quick checklist...

1) You need to be logged in as yourself (not guest, not root)
2) You don't need to be in your home because the path is already implied (~/ is a shortcut for your home directory)

But it doesn't seem like that was the problem. Have a look at computerandu's post...

> **computerandu said:**
> Well...this post may help you:

[http://www.computerandyou.net/2011/10/18/how-to-solve-unable-to-login-into-ubuntu-11-10/](http://www.computerandyou.net/2011/10/18/how-to-solve-unable-to-login-into-ubuntu-11-10/)

I was going through the forums and it looks like other people who had the same problem fixed it this way. 

It's basically the same idea, except they deleted/renamed the ~/.Xauthority file. Try that...

BTW, I don't know how comfortable you are with the shell/terminal, but once you get this sorted out, you should spend some time familiarizing yourself with the shell/terminal..

To help you along here are some basic "bread and butter" commands...

**ls** lists files and directories.
**cd** changes directories
**cp** copies files
**mv** moves files (and can technically rename them)
**rm** deletes files

And yes you can use nautilus to do this, but sometimes you'll have problems with the window manager and you'll need to fix it from a shell. Those commands will allow you to  navigate your directories and manage your files.

---

### Post by RayArdia on 2011-10-25
Thanks Enkay!
I first tried your 'mv ~/.gnome2 ..... 'etc scheme. After logging in as me, ie from the login screen where incidentally, when I enter the 'Password' field, it shows a Warning Triangle in blue, I did Ctrl-Alt-F1, logged in again as me and entered each of your 'mv' lines and pressed Enter. Command line returned to my user prompt: same for each of the other lines. It seems as though nothing is happening.
Tried the same with the instructions from [http://www.computerandyou.net/2011/1...-ubuntu-11-10/](http://www.computerandyou.net/2011/1...-ubuntu-11-10/) though I couldn't enter the first line because I don't have (or can't find the long vertical line character on my Spanish keyboard.
After entering

sudo mv .Xauthority Xauthority.old
sudo shutdown -r now 

leaving out the list line 'ls -Shla | grep “Xauthority”'

I got the same response as with you 'mv' instructions, ie nothing.
Tried restarting, same as before.
Now I KNOW I must be doing something stupid - at my age it's not difficult - but I just don't know WHAT!

---

### Post by RayArdia on 2011-10-25
Well, since none of the proposed solutions 'appeared' to work for me I decided to reinstall 11.10.
Something must have 'ackled' because I can now log in under my own name!
My file system is, however, empty but in the same window are the other ubuntu installation' file systems.66GB,34GB and 84GB
The one named '66GB File System'has a path /media/287a4d5e-7fec-498d-93e5-e0e3a7bca60d and that is the one which contains all my data.
How do I transfer all that lot, (Properties tells me it contains 279,694 items, totalling 59.1 GB to my Home directory?

---

### Post by RayArdia on 2011-10-25
Further investigation reveals that the File System named 84 GB contains only 154,362 items, totalling 2.6 GB, I think this must be the previously installed 11.10. I need to get rid of that to make room for my working installation . As I remembered I'd using gparted previously I installed it but now can't find it which I need to do if I'm going to run it!

---

