---
title: "14.04 gnome install on Toshiba C55D-B5241"
date: 2015-04-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Chalen_Godwin on 2015-04-14
My first time ever using Linux is not going so great. This will be a constantly updated post. Be back in 5 min. Need a smoke break, then I'll post the specifics on what's going wrong.

---

### Post by user_of_gnomes on 2015-04-14
> **Chalen_Godwin said:**
> My first time ever using Linux is not going so great. This will be a constantly updated post. Be back in 5 min. Need a smoke break, then I'll post the specifics on what's going wrong.

O.K, it's a good thing you're telling us what you're doing right now otherwise this whole thing could have easily gone south.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2015-04-14
i'm going to take a smoke break & a nap, i'll be right back to tell you the specifics on how it went.

---

### Post by Chalen_Godwin on 2015-04-14
> **user_of_gnomes said:**
> O.K, it's a good thing you're telling us what you're doing right now otherwise this whole thing could have easily gone south.


Yeah, right? I don't want to get banned 2 min after I just made an account lol 

Anyway here are the specifics. 


Toshiba C55D-B5241
Win 8.1 64bit

Downloaded gnome ISO, installed with unetboot and tried universal USB installer
Turned off Secure Boot
Verified through Powershell that SecureBoot was off
Reboot; selected USB drive
Toshiba splash screen comes up; ----> windows 8 repair comes up
Allow it to push through, win 8 splash screen comes up for diagnostic and repair
Select USB boot
Comes full circle
Finally it boots itself back into windows
Verified USB boot procedure. Same fail 
Swapped hard drive with two other spares. same fail 
Verified UEFI selection, force installation through win8 ----> fails 
Deleted recovery partition of win8 with diskpart ---> same fail 

Trying to decide how to force this to install, or even boot INTO ubuntu.

---

### Post by user_of_gnomes on 2015-04-14
It depends on the UEFI and I'd really have to see the options to be able to tell you but some UEFI contain options (and some will not) that:

[LIST]
[*]Allow you to boot from a DVD in a non-UEFI fashion (usually the boot option will lack the words "UEFI");
[*]Set up a "Legacy" boot list;
[*]Set "UEFI" to "Legacy" under "boot list option" 
[/LIST]

The names might be different. Or I simply haven't seen enough UEFI laptops yet to remember the names properly. I do know they **** me off every time I have to work with 'm and turning off Secure Boot only gets you half the way from my experience.

You should also test that usb stick on a different system, Unetbootin can be a little funky sometimes.

Did you have a look at [this]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI") article?

---

### Post by Chalen_Godwin on 2015-04-14
[IMG]http://puu.sh/he9pD/95f09cb16e.jpg[/IMG][IMG]http://puu.sh/he9pp/0f911ecfdf.jpg[/IMG][IMG]http://puu.sh/he9oW/09158c4d31.jpg[/IMG][IMG]http://puu.sh/he9oG/ac8cb6f693.jpg[/IMG][IMG]http://puu.sh/he9oa/ad43b35e14.jpg[/IMG][IMG]http://puu.sh/he9nQ/0ad6abc553.jpg[/IMG][IMG]http://puu.sh/he9nw/f072c9ef32.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by Chalen_Godwin on 2015-04-14
For the record, I tried installing Ubuntu 2 years ago. I've never had success with this OS.

---

### Post by user_of_gnomes on 2015-04-14
Those pictures were taken after you clicked on "troubleshoot" and then "UEFI firmware settings" in Windows 8.1, right?

Boot mode has to be set to CSM Boot, by the way.

---

### Post by Chalen_Godwin on 2015-04-14
Yes, after troubleshoot

Also, I tried CSM, didn't work.

---

### Post by Chalen_Godwin on 2015-04-14
[IMG]http://puu.sh/hearW/d2a2f73182.jpg[/IMG]


This is what I see when I use CSM, it goes to PXE....

---

### Post by user_of_gnomes on 2015-04-14
Are you certain the usb stick is indeed bootable? You should test it on another computer.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2015-04-14
I have a Toshiba C50, I recently installed Ubuntu on it, in secure mode. To boot from a usb device, I have to hold down the 0 (zero) key when I first see the Toshiba logo 

[[img]http://i.imgur.com/tkjYXAim.jpg[/img]](http://imgur.com/tkjYXAi)

click Yes to continue, next you should see something similar to this:

[[img]http://i.imgur.com/GwBKtEfm.jpg[/img]](http://imgur.com/GwBKtEf)

click Use a  device::

[[img]http://i.imgur.com/mwJR42fm.jpg[/img]](http://imgur.com/mwJR42f)

to boot from a usb device, in my case click the icon on the lower right, UEFI: Lexar JD Secure, if you have secure boot disabled, the next thing you should see on screen is **Booting in insecure mode**, Once at the menu, select Install Ubuntu. You can decide whether to try it or install it, when the device is fully loaded.

---

### Post by Chalen_Godwin on 2015-04-17
Been slightly busy, sorry. Setting up boot now following what [ 						 					]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=77104") 				 				 					 						 	[**[COLOR=#990303][B]cariboo907**[/COLOR][/B]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=77104") posted. Also going to make another bootable pen.

---

### Post by Chalen_Godwin on 2015-04-18
Alright, after slaving over this all day, nothing has worked. When I hold '0', it does allow me to go into the hard drive restoration process, but I receive a windows 8 screen that doesn't allow me to choose the USB stick. I have two, neither work. I tried USB3.0, both USB2.0, a docking station, and the UEFI says "no bootable media could be found" 

When I boot through CSM, the laptop just auto-jumps to dhcp set up. I don't have another computer, so DHCP is out of the question. 

I appreciate you guys' help. I have faith that sooner or later a solution will come up. :p

---

### Post by user_of_gnomes on 2015-04-18
Did you try booting from a CD/DVD instead? 
You could also install Linux on that hard drive using another computer and then just put it back in.

I find it bizarre that you can't get the usb stick to boot but it doesn't surprise me; UEFI is truly a horrible system.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2015-04-18
try a different ubuntu version, then use unetbootin to make the usb installer.
the last time i tried ubuntu gnome installer it was broken.

---

### Post by Chalen_Godwin on 2015-04-18
i will try vanilla ubuntu

---

### Post by Chalen_Godwin on 2015-04-19
Okay I tested out 14.04 vanilla, 12.04, and the Mint distro... which i don't care for. 

But, I tried 4 other USB drives, every port, and I ALMOST had it working. I used WUBI to force boot into Linux... So what this does it allow me to Dual Boot. I select Ubuntu, it reboots, but gives me an error saying that it can not find Linux / unreadable media.

Edit: I will try a DVD tomorrow.

---

### Post by mattharris4 on 2015-04-19
Chalen, when did you purchase this computer?  I have to ask because I recently installed Lubuntu on my about year-old Toshiba C55D-A5163 and the only problem I had was that I had to go into Alsamixer after installation and unmute it so sound would work, of course I had to install Pepper Flash and a couple of other things but that is normal no matter what.  I have also booted Ubuntu and Xubuntu from USB and both worked fine other than being a bit slow due to the crappy processor on my laptop.  I installed Lubuntu in a dual-boot configuration with Windows 8.1, both work well.  Unless Toshiba changed their computers very recently or this is an older computer than it appears to be from the pictures (and the pictures and dissertation on what you have done to attempt installation) and there aren't any Nvidia parts to it (Nvidia compatibility is a crap-shoot at best) on the BIOS display you have pictured I am suspecting you have a defective computer that cannot boot properly from the USB and it is not a problem with the UEFI/BIOS in this case.  Do you have a computer with a DVD-RW drive that you can use to make a DVD of Ubuntu to try?  Instructions on how to do this are a simple Google search away (I cannot post them here as the instructions would take up pages of text) including instructions on how to install a free program to make the ISO DVD discs necessary for bootable OS DVDs if you don't have Win 8 or 8.1 on that computer (Win 8 and 8.1 can make ISO DVDs on its own).

One other thing, if this computer came from the factory with Win 8 or 8.1 have you disabled Fast Boot?  That must be disabled in order to install or boot a Linux OS (you do not mention that in your posts).  If this is an issue here you disable it in the UEFI/BIOS screen which you have displayed so you know how to get to it.  If the computer came with Win 7 or earlier this paragraph is likely moot.

---

### Post by Chalen_Godwin on 2015-04-21
The next thing I'm going to try is a DVD. I bought this laptop a week and a half ago.

---

### Post by mattharris4 on 2015-04-22
> **Chalen_Godwin said:**
> The next thing I'm going to try is a DVD. I bought this laptop a week and a half ago.

If you bought it new a week and a half ago then it should still be under warranty (it does sound like your USB is defective but it could be some new roadblock Toshiba has built into the computer at Microsoft's behest in order to force you to use Windows, if you have a USB stick with documents on it check and see if you can access them without issue -- then you will know for sure).  I would exchange it for a different computer, it would probably be of the same model if you do a warranty exchange (and they will likely make you jump through a few hoops before authorizing a replacement).  Depending on where you bought it this may be as simple as taking the computer, its accessories and the receipt to the store you bought it and exchanging it for a different model/manufacturer.  Usually you have 14 days from the purchase date at brick and mortar stores and 30-90 days at online retailers such as Newegg and Tiger Direct.  Do your research and find out what computers take Ubuntu without issue and buy one of those if an exchange at the store is an option.  I know Dell sells computers with Linux pre-installed but they cost north of $1000.  However, I haven't heard of problems installing Ubuntu on the more reasonably priced Dell computers.  Lenovo is also spoken highly of in this respect but make sure you remove the spy software (Superfish) that comes with it before doing anything else including a Ubuntu install (several anti-virus programs will do so).  Certainly you would want to do a dual-boot configuration with a brand new computer no matter what brand you buy and you don't want everything you do transmitted to the Chinese company behind Superfish (if you buy a Lenovo computer).

---

