---
title: "11.10 - cheapy parallel adapter no longer works"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-16
Please see this closed thread - it shows what worked in 10.xx to get my cheapy parallel adapter working:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1629616]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1629616")

In 11.10 this no longer works (yes, I did change the references to the kernel in the paths to the new 3. kernel).  It comes up and says the object won't work for the current kernel.

This is the only way I have right now of using my Brother laser printer - it's old and uses a parallel port.

If anyone has any ideas on getting this working in 11.10 I would really like to hear them!

Thanks in advance!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-10-16
I use a $12.00  Moschip IO parallel card for my old HP . It has worked with the five versions of Ubuntu I have used .

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-16
I appreciate the input, but it does nothing to solve my current problem with my current adapter.

Thanks!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-10-16
> **anewguy said:**
> I appreciate the input, but it does nothing to solve my current problem with my current adapter.

Thanks!

Dave ;)

Sorry about that I wrote the same thing on the other thread :oops: I've never had to install a driver for the card in Ubuntu , a generic driver must be included .

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-17
My card is a *cheap* card, so it is a high-bred.  By default it looks like a serial port.  Some specific things must be done to make it known as a parallel port in Linux and Windows.  Problem is, those things don't work in 11.04 on up for some reason.


Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-18
There seems to be no fix at this time, so I went to OfficeMax and bought a wireless HP "Photosmart Premium".  Didm't set it up yet, but I sure hope  it doesn't eat ink as badly as my old HP Photosmart b209-a did - that thing was TERRIBLE.

---

