---
title: "7.10 -&gt; 8.04 upgrade stalled"
date: 2008-09-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by H.Callahan on 2008-09-30
As I may be changing hardware soon, I decided to upgrade my current 7.10 installation to 8.04 after the recommendation that changing hardware might be less painful under 8.04 than with 7.10.

I started the upgrade with the built-in update manager.  The update got to this point:

[img]http://home.comcast.net/~h.callahan/upgradestall.jpg[/img]

and has stalled.  I have left it running for over 24 hours, just in case it might pick up again, but it was still stalled this morning when I checked it.

Where do I go from here?

---

### Post by NewJack on 2008-09-30
If that is where you are still stuck, I would say to restart your machine and see if the install picks up from where it left off.  If not, see if you can get back into your Gutsy install and backup any files that are important to you (music, video, documents, etc...).  Then I would perform a clean install.  You can't go wrong with a clean install.

Joe

---

### Post by snowpine on 2008-09-30
Actually you are experiencing a well known (but frustrating) bug. Check out this thread for the solution: 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=865679](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=865679)

---

### Post by linuxnoob123456789 on 2008-09-30
this is nerve racking because in upgrading my server (desktop with samba file and print)

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2008-09-30
I do things the 'hacky' way. This has happened to before and I shut down Update Manager and opened terminal and  proceeded with 
```
sudo apt-get -f install
``` 
and it actually picked up where I was hung at

---

### Post by H.Callahan on 2008-09-30
Crap.  I wish I had known about this before I tried an upgrade.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2008-09-30
Did you try the solution in post #3 of the thread I linked to in my previous post?

---

### Post by H.Callahan on 2008-09-30
I am in the process of trying it now.

My problem is going to be, if this all works and not being an Ubuntu guru, is the nagging feeling something did not get upgraded properly and I am going to have a hidden problem just waiting to jump out and bite me in the future.

Is there any way to do a COMPLETE verify when everything is done to make sure it all has upgraded properly?

---

### Post by H.Callahan on 2008-09-30
> **snowpine said:**
> Did you try the solution in post #3 of the thread I linked to in my previous post?

Ok, I THINK it worked -- although it went through the dpkg --configure -a in a matter of seconds and I am pretty sure that there were more problems at the end of the upgrade than what it went through.

I'd still like to know how to verify the installation...

---

### Post by H.Callahan on 2008-10-06
> **H.Callahan said:**
> My problem is going to be, if this all works and not being an Ubuntu guru, is the nagging feeling something did not get upgraded properly and I am going to have a hidden problem just waiting to jump out and bite me in the future.

Is there any way to do a COMPLETE verify when everything is done to make sure it all has upgraded properly?

Bumping trying to get an answer to this part particularly as I have encountered some weirdness since the upgrade.

---

### Post by H.Callahan on 2008-10-14
Ok, let me ask this a different way...

If I were to reinstall 8.04 over the top of the existing install (without formatting the / partition, would I get a valid install without messing up the applications that are currently installed?

---

