---
title: "Installation Disc"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Fraser1987 on 2009-11-01
Hi,

I'm considering in ordering an installation disc from the web-site as for it's free  ( CD or DVD ). Has anybody done this before here?. How secure will my information be. 

A little apprehensive on ordering one really.

---

### Post by L Campbell on 2009-11-01
> **Fraser1987 said:**
> Hi,

I'm considering in ordering an installation disc from the web-site as for it's free  ( CD or DVD ). Has anybody done this before here?. How secure will my information be. 

A little apprehensive on ordering one really.

Hi, I don't think you need to worry.

I have received disks this way in the past and had no problem. It does take a little while to arrive so, if you don't want to wait and can't download it yourself, you might want to have a friend help you.

Kind regards.

---

### Post by ColdLunch on 2009-11-01
It's not dangerous or anything...

My friend ordered one but it takes a while for it to be delivered.

Also, why can't you burn one?

---

### Post by Myglaren on 2009-11-01
I have had several over the years an have had no problems other than forgetting my password almost every time.
They only need your name and address, which is hardly going to be much of a problem anyway.

---

### Post by Fraser1987 on 2009-11-01
Is the CD official and does it come with its own box e.g. like Windows XP Pro x64 OEM Retail? ( better packaging -- etc ). I have burned an ISO but I think the stuff I download gets corrupted. Everytime, so thats why I'm considering in ordering a cd or dvd...

---

### Post by portly on 2009-11-01
> **Fraser1987 said:**
> Is the CD official and does it come with its own box e.g. like Windows XP Pro x64 OEM Retail? ( better packaging -- etc ). I have burned an ISO but I think the stuff I download gets corrupted. Everytime, so thats why I'm considering in ordering a cd or dvd...

I've received it in a polycarbonate CD box and in a folded card sleeve before now, so I'd guess that it depends on what's being used at the moment.

What OS are you trying to download it in ? Windows or something else (linux of some sort, MAC etc etc)? Because you normally find an "md5sum" file there as well, if you download the ISO, and the md5sum file, then the numbers for the version you've downloaded in the md5sum file can be used to compare with the md5sum generated by the ISO you downloaded (you'll need to google for the freeware app to do this if you're using windows, I don't know about MACS - wouldn't touch them with a bargepole!).

Or if you're using a linux anyway, you can just do that in a terminal with the command "md5sum /home/Fraser1987/Desktop/Ubuntu9.10/etcetcetc" obviously you wouldn't use the quotes and you'd change the location to reflect where you have the ISO stored and the exact name of the version you downloaded, but it should generate the md5sum number and you just compare it to the one for the version in the md5sum file downloaded from the mirror.

It takes a while, but if the numbers match then you can presume that you have got an uncorrupted ISO and then just burn it as normal.......

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-11-01
> **Fraser1987 said:**
> like Windows XP Pro x64 OEM Retail?

Interesting example, it seems difficult to get the 64 bit version from shipit.

You can also download the marketing artwork and print your own jewel case stuff, with a capable printer and printable cds, you can make a real nice job.

---

### Post by Fraser1987 on 2009-11-01
I cant afford a printer. Well, I can but I don't really care for gfx. Plain and Simple is best for me.

---

