---
title: "14.04 and keyboard short cuts."
date: 2014-10-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bob brazie on 2014-10-12
After upgrading to 14.04 I tried to create a new shortcut to say Qalculate!. 

The supplied utility in system settings/keyboard/shortcuts/custom settings did not work when I tried to assign a ctrl/1 shortcut to it.

I found that I could not add any new shortcut keys with any key combinations that would work.

Since 14.04 is a LTS release I am surprised that this has not been fixed. 

Or maybe it is just my install as I am having trouble finding anything concrete doing a Google search.

Any help would be appreciated. Bob.

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2014-10-12
Oh and I know the default calculate uses this combination. I tried others which did not work.
Thanks. Bob.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2014-10-12
works fine here ( command of qalculate binding of ctrl+1
maybe try logging into a guest session & try there

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2014-10-12
I have two machines running 14.04 and neither one can add new shortcuts.
when I try to add ctrl to the command it will not register in the command field but any second command such as a number will.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2014-10-12
> **bob brazie said:**
> 
when I try to add ctrl to the command **it will not register in the command field** but any second command such as a number will.
Maybe I'm taking you too literal but the binding has nothing to do with the command field. You set the name & command, close the popup (click apply), which results in scr. 1. 
Then set the binding in the shorcut window by clicking on "Disabled" > press your keys, scr2

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2014-10-13
What would the command be if it's not the shortcut keys I want to use?

Run? Start?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2014-10-13
> **bob brazie said:**
> What would the command be if it's not the shortcut keys I want to use?

Run? Start?
```

qalculate
```

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2014-10-13
Thank you. You have cleared things up for me and I thank you for you patents dealing with a new comer.

---

### Post by Paulgirardin on 2014-10-13
If you are using Unity,what's wrong with super  q enter

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2014-10-13
Don't see that that did anything pressing those three keys.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2014-10-13
super+q enables a 'pick a launcher icon number' mode. So if you had Qalculate! icon in the launcher & it displayed a number then pressing that number after super+q would start it..

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2014-10-14
Thanks, I thought you were trying a three key combination. <g> I knew that one but don't have it on the launcher.

---

### Post by GrouchyGaijin on 2014-10-14
@bob brazie I thought the same thing.
@mc4man Thanks for the tip - that is pretty useful.

---

### Post by Paulgirardin on 2014-10-14
> **bob brazie said:**
> Don't see that that did anything pressing those three keys.

You misunderstand. super ,q ,enter in sequence,not all together.
super brings up the Dash ,q should bring up qalculate as the first option (unless you have some other app starting with q) and enter will start qalculate.

This is the key sequence I always use to start qalculate.
This is how the Unity interface is supposed to be used

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2014-10-14
Thanks. Some of that I did not know.

---

