---
title: "8.04 installation hdd partitioning fails to see partitions"
date: 2008-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by travellingwithoutmoving on 2008-05-11
Okay. I've had a good nose round here for an hour or so now, and can't find what I need... 

Basically, I have an old fujitsu-siemens euroline desktop which I'm trying to get going as a server. 

I can boot a slax live cd with the hdd unplugged and get the machine up and running. 

Watching the stuff scroll by when slax was loading (before I unplugged the hdd) the os can see the hdd, and correctly identifies it as a 500Gb samsung spinpoint sata drive. I'm using a sata=>pata converter which I've plugged directly into the mobo. it displays lines where it reports interrupt failures (i think that's what it calls them). 

When I try the alternate cd installer for ubuntu 8.04, I find that the process craps out at the partitioning stage. I get a few options but no actual 'guided partition' option. If I try the desktop iso instead, the machine won't get past teh initial 'run linux without changing your system, install linux, blah blah' menu screen. so I think the machine needs to use the alternate cd, case I get much further. 

I've tried the following parameters by hitting F6 and typing them at the boot screen
noapic
nolapic
no387

A few days ago when I last tried, one of the cd's (can't remember which) could see the hdd and asked me to configure partitions. I did this and let it get on with the install, but it didn't 'take' and won't boot from the hdd. 

Anyway, I'm stumped now, as I can't get the thing back to that point even. it just won't report on what partitions are there, and leaves a few blank lines before the 'finish and make partition changes' type statement. 

AaaaaAArgh! Help!!!

---

### Post by cprofitt on 2008-05-11
you can hit F6 and try all_generic_ide; I have had to do that with other distro's before, but never Ubuntu.

---

