---
title: "Video Settings Issue"
date: 2008-09-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by RussW210 on 2008-09-24
Here is my situation:

I am currently running Ubuntu Hardy 8.04 with an ATI 2400 HD Graphics Card.  I had an ATI Accelerated Driver installed, the one that Ubuntu suggested for me.  All was fine and dandy in terms of playing movies with my VLC player but for some reason full-screen youtube videos would glitch to all hell.  Also, I couldn't play 3d games like supertuxkart... even with installing the fusion-icon and switching to metacity.

Then, under the recommendation of another post, I installed "Envy" to update my ATI Graphics Driver.  It unchecked my ATI Accelerated Graphics Driver that was previously installed and I reset my computer.  Suddenly, everything seemed fine.  I loaded up supertuxkart and it was a bit glitchy but it still ran.  From there, I switched off Compiz and went to metacity and supertuxkart ran flawlessly.

I also noticed that while doing the "Hardware Test" the step where it asks you if you saw colored/static bars now works (albeit it was in the corner of the screen).

However, I now have two new problems: #1) Even though YouTube can now play full-screen without glitching it won't actually let me close out the full-screen (by pressing escape or the X in the bottom right)... it just freezes.  The sound still plays, but the video freezes and I can't get off the screen (I have to ctrl+alt+f1 to restart the computer).  My #2) problem is that ALL my video players are now glitchy (I have tested .avi files under VLC player, totem) and they weren't before.  Sound is fine.  I notice I see a green bar at the bottom of the screen in VLC player but it just flashes... can't watch it like that.

Somewhere between switching to the new graphics driver with Envy screwed it up.  Here is my Xorg.conf file.. maybe somebody can figure this out:

[HTML]
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    Defaultdepth    24
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Option        "VideoOverlay"    "on"
    Option        "OpenGLOverlay"    "off"
    Driver        "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option        "Composite"    "Enable"
EndSection
[/HTML]

A few things changed on my Xorg.conf when I switched to the new driver including the addition of:

    Option        "VideoOverlay"    "on"
    Option        "OpenGLOverlay"    "off"

Under the Device Module.  And the whole "Extensions" Module was added.

Somebody please help!

---

### Post by RussW210 on 2008-09-24
Anybody?

---

