---
title: "12.04  dumb question about update manager"
date: 2013-03-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-03-13
hi, once i had to reformat my HD because when i did update manager with lots of updates on it, lot of program would not work properly ( like virtualbox that screwed all my virtual machines lately :(  )


let just say i install ubuntu 12.04 and just add program and i never use update manager because my computer is working properly anyway.

would that be dumb, would i end up having problem in the futur ?  is updating a working system absolutely necessary ?



ps : before the forum update, each time i got the answer i was looking for, i could always go back to my thread and change it so it show it has been solved , now i just cannot do that no more....

any ideas or is that option been disable ?


ty

---

### Post by jfbooth on 2013-03-13
If I understand your question(s) correctly, you are advised to implement (at least) important/critical Ubuntu updates through update manager.  Update Manager should not damage anything ... but simply install 'needed' updates.  I am still a beginner ... but one way to honk up your Linux system is to UNinstall 'things' .. even if you don't use 'em.  Personally, I would advise updating ... and HESITATE before UNinstalling anything.

I do not have an answer to your second question ... re: Forum.  I don't get that many of my posts 'solved' .. for some reason.

---

### Post by Mr. Shannon on 2013-03-13
I am no expert.  But as far as I understand, a lot of updates are for security (especially on LTS releases such as 12.04).  So I would always keep the system up to date.  When you used update manager and it broke the machine, was it doing an upgrade from one release to another or a regular update?  Because if it was the former I could understand how that could break the system.  It's not supposed to, but I never trust a release upgrade.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-03-13
MontrealCorp; Hi !
I have no experience in the VM realm so my comment is directed at the desktop install.- no proprietary software, no 3rd party ppa's-
I always accept updates; never with a serious problem), but I always note what is to be updated and I keep a couple of "older" kernels available just in case there should be a problem.

Marking threads solved, interim work-a-bout:
> Go to the first post in your thread. Click on "Edit Post". Now click on the orange "Go Advanced" button. In the advanced editor change the prefix to "SOLVED". Now click on the orange "Save Changes" button.

Problem still ? -> graphical instruction:
[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads](http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads)[INDENT=4]
hth

[/INDENT]

---

