---
title: "Ubuntu connects to wired network but there is no internet v 13.10"
date: 2014-03-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by aleksandar8 on 2014-03-30
Hello, I'm  very new user to Ubuntu (installed it yesterday) . At the first start the internet connection that I'm having and works perfectly with Windows was not spotted automatically so I set up a new connection manually with the details from the ISP (this is not my screen):
[IMG]http://i.stack.imgur.com/Uw3Yb.png[/IMG]
It got better :) and showed connected with the up and down arrow icon  on he right of the menu bar. But when I want to start Firefox,  Ubuntu one or any connection, nothing happens. Please give some suggestions how to solve this mystery. Can it be a problem from the eth card or smth. Thanks!

---

### Post by apohal9 on 2014-03-30
Welcome to Ubuntu :)

Can you provide output of

> 

[LIST]
[*]ip addr
[*]ip route
[*]cat /etc/resolv.conf
[/LIST]
 

entered in a terminal session?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2014-03-30
How do you connect to Internet: through a router or direct connect to modem?

---

### Post by aleksandar8 on 2014-03-30
> **apohal9 said:**
> Welcome to Ubuntu :)

Can you provide output of



entered in a terminal session?

 I get this when the following commands are executed
**ip addr** **:**
```

1: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 65536 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN
  link/loopback 00:00:00:00:00:00 brd 00:00:00:00:00.00
  inet 127.0.0.1/8 scope host lo
    valtd_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    tnet6 ::1/128 scope host
    valtd_lft forever preferred_lft forever
2: eth0 <BROAOCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOHER_UP> mtu 1500 qdtsc pfifo_fast state UP
en 1000
    link/ether 08:60:6e:73:2f:90 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    lnet 95.11.115.209/26 brd 95.11.115.255 scope global eth0
      valld_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    tneto fe80::a60:6eff:fe73:2f90/64 scope link
      valld_lft forever preferred_lft forever 
```



** ip route:**
```

default via 95.11.115.193 dev eth0 proto static
95.11.115.192/26 dev eth0 proto kernel scope llnk src 95.11.115.209 metric

```

**cat /etc/resolv conf** :
```

# Dynamic  resolv.conf(5) file for   glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL  BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.6.1.1 

```
@Iowan
my Ethernet cable is connected to a switch- TP-link, which is in my room and after that it goes out of the flat leading to a box  in the halls (no idea what is inside)

---

### Post by apohal9 on 2014-03-30
Can you ping 95.11.115.193 ?
Who did tell you to use **127**.6.1.1? This is an IP from the loopback address space which will point to you PC. Maybe you did simply mistype and the nameserver (DNS server) should point to 172.6.1.1?

---

### Post by aleksandar8 on 2014-04-01
Sorry forum members, I mistyped  the default gateway address it was - 95.111.115.193

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2014-04-01
It's not quite clear where the problem is. Let's try this simple test to see whether it might be a DNS problem. In Ubuntu, with the network manager showing the up and down arrows, type this IP address into the address bar of your browser and press enter.

```
173.194.41.137
```

What do you see?

Also try the first of apohal9's suggestions, but with your corrected gateway address. Open a terminal and:

```
ping 95.111.115.193
```

What message do you get?

---

### Post by aleksandar8 on 2014-04-02
I meant that the reason I could not *connect at all* was the mistaken default gateway/IP/DNS second octet. Since the change I don't experience any trouble at all. Cheers :)

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2014-04-02
Glad to hear you've solved it. :)

---

