---
title: "9.10 Upgrade - not having fun"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by toddfryar on 2009-10-31
I am fairly new to Ubuntu.  I installed 8.10 last spring on a Dell Latitude D820 and have been fairly happy with it...until an attempted upgrade to 9.10.

I have been troubleshooting various issues for eight hours straight and am finally giving up.  I am going back to 8.04, which recognized all my hardware and "just worked".

9.10 was a major fail for me and I nearly went back to XP after this experience.  I don't have time for this.

---

### Post by Crandom on 2009-10-31
What, exactly, went wrong? What hardware was not detected? For me, everything actually worked out the box for the first time ever!

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-10-31
Out of interest what were your problems?

My experience with Karmic has been great, no problems at all. 
Generally the best thing to do is avoid the new releases until after a month or so, then do a clean install. Upgrades can work perfectly sometimes, other times they hose everything; I gave up on them after Hardy to Intrepid broke everything.

---

### Post by toddfryar on 2009-10-31
The install completely failed and after reboot came to the following error:

One or more of the mounts listed in /etc/fstab cannot yet be mounted:
(ESC for recovery shell)
/: waiting for /dev/disk/by-uuid/6b1dd640-04f1-4f3c-ab91-a537f60841d1
/tmp: waiting for (null)
swap: waiting for UUID=19ec2898-8e83-4b1c-9b8f-8790d42fd56a

After four hours of trying to fix that, I reinstalled from scratch.  Trying to get the Broadcom wireless adapter to work was a further nightmare that didn't work.

I'm done.

---

### Post by mwalimu54 on 2009-10-31
Not sure what hardware you've got.  Some just sucks with Ubuntu (like my old Inspiron 1100, for instance).  One thing you might try is partitioning your hard drive and doing a clean install of 9.10 on the second partition rather than an upgrade or if you're feeling daring, just wipe the whole hd and start over.  If you download a 9.10 iso and burn it to a cd, you can use it for a fresh install and it will give you options for partitioning your hd.

I just finished a fresh install from a cd and had almost zero problems.  Of course, I'm running rather new hardware and like I said, each scenario is different.

Best wishes...

Edit:  I just saw that you posted while I was posting and that you already tried a clean install.  Sorry about the luck.  If you ever get other hardware, try Ubuntu again.  If it works with your system it's great.

---

### Post by Dullstar on 2009-10-31
Don't do an upgrade.  Problem solved.

---

### Post by Crandom on 2009-10-31
Paste your /etc/fstab here, mabye we can help. Oh yes, never do an upgrade - instead have a separate /home partition and do a clean install each time.

---

### Post by toddfryar on 2009-10-31
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=d6b713fa-1e1e-4e30-9081-82f76a718ee2 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda5 during installation
UUID=92ba33f4-1f3f-474f-a81d-357aa881e1aa none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

---

### Post by shadowlands on 2009-10-31
The same thing happen to me. > **toddfryar said:**
> The install completely failed and after reboot came to the following error:

One or more of the mounts listed in /etc/fstab cannot yet be mounted:
(ESC for recovery shell)
/: waiting for /dev/disk/by-uuid/6b1dd640-04f1-4f3c-ab91-a537f60841d1
/tmp: waiting for (null)
swap: waiting for UUID=19ec2898-8e83-4b1c-9b8f-8790d42fd56a

After four hours of trying to fix that, I reinstalled from scratch.  Trying to get the Broadcom wireless adapter to work was a further nightmare that didn't work.

I'm done.

---

