---
title: "18.0.4 black screen booting issue"
date: 2020-08-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ssk1234 on 2020-08-07
I have Ubuntu 18.0.4 partition that results in a black screen upon  booting. To address, this issue, I added nomodeset to the grub and still seeing the same error.  However, another partition with Kubuntu 20.0.4 on the same device is  working fine.


 Is there a way to fix the grub on the 18.0.4 by mounting it on the Kubuntu 20.0.4 partition rather than through the Boot-CD? I also tried a few of my own fixes such as boot-repair, but that did  not help either, though not sure whether I did it the right way.


Any suggestions preferably clear steps to bring back this 18.0.4 to full functionality would be appreciated.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2020-08-07
Hello and welcome to the forum ssk1234.

*Thread moved to **New to Ubuntu for a more appropriate fit**.*

---

### Post by ssk1234 on 2020-08-07
@wildmanne39: I have been on Ubuntu for some time and never had this specific issue. My web search, along with implementation of suggested methods for some time now is not pointing to a converging answer, though this issue appears to be repeating. For that reason, I believe that this is an issue for newbies and also for oldtimers. Just my 2 tulips thought on categorization.

---

### Post by Andreyshel on 2020-08-08
Can you provide file /var/log/boot.log from your ubuntu partition please.(requires sudo to be viewed)

---

### Post by aaronrv2008 on 2020-08-08
I think it's because some Ubuntu .iso can get corrupted while download. This happens if a server stops and the download hasn't finished yet.

---

### Post by ssk1234 on 2020-08-08
@AndreyShel & @Aaronrv2008: Thanks for jumping in.

Only this partition is showing this issue. However, I have another Kubuntu partition, which runs fine on the same device.

Since initiating this thread, performed a couple of things. Added nomodeset and removed splash in the grub. Also, ran the boot repair a couple of times, which appeared to address the two issues - 

1. Without nomodeset, it was leading to Kernel panic error, which is not showing up any more
2. the black screen, which popped up without going this far in the boot is not being seen where the boot is getting struck

Now, the boot is struck at the following line -
level changes [ Ok ].  Started  LXD - main daemon. Starting Update UTMP about System Runlevel changes. 

We have a set of lxd containers, where it appears to be freezing up.

---

### Post by ssk1234 on 2020-08-08
@AndreyShel:

Nothing in the boot.log file.

-rw-r--r-- 1 root   root      0 ### 09:17 boot.log

-----------------------------------------

Updated the post: 

Sorry, the above one is for the Kubuntu. For the Ubuntu partition, here is current content:



  GNU nano 4.8                                                                         boot.log                                                                                    
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Started AppArmor initialization.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Reached target System Initialization.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Listening on D-Bus System Message Bus Socket.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Listening on CUPS Scheduler.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Started Daily Cleanup of Temporary Directories.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Listening on Avahi mDNS/DNS-SD Stack Activation Socket.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Started Message of the Day.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Started CUPS Scheduler.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Started ACPI Events Check.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Reached target Paths.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Listening on UUID daemon activation socket.
         Starting Socket activation for snappy daemon.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Started Trigger anacron every hour.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Listening on ACPID Listen Socket.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Started Daily apt download activities.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Started Daily apt upgrade and clean activities.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Started Discard unused blocks once a week.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Reached target Timers.
         Starting Raise network interfaces...
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Listening on Socket activation for snappy daemon.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Reached target Sockets.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Reached target Basic System.
         Starting LSB: Record successful boot for GRUB...
         Starting Avahi mDNS/DNS-SD Stack...
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Started Regular background program processing daemon.
         Starting Disk Manager...
         Starting Dispatcher daemon for systemd-networkd...
         Starting Accounts Service...
         Starting Thermal Daemon Service...
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Started irqbalance daemon.
         Starting System Logging Service...
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Started CUPS Scheduler.
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Started Set the CPU Frequency Scaling governor.
         Starting Restore /etc/resolv.conf if the system crashed before the ppp link was shut down...
         Starting Snappy daemon...
         Starting IIO Sensor Proxy service...
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Started D-Bus System Message Bus.
         Starting Network Manager...
[^[[0;32m  OK  ^[[0m] Reached target Login Prompts.
         Starting Bluetooth service...
         Starting WPA supplicant...
         Starting Detect the available GPUs and deal with any system changes...

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-08-08
The problem is not Grub if its menu shows up.

The problem is likely graphics drivers that are installed automatically in 20.04 but NOT in 18.04. That said, a proper use of ' nomodeset' should give you a desktop albeit at low resolution.

Please post your hardware specifications, namely graphics.

---

### Post by ssk1234 on 2020-08-08
@CelticWarrior. Thanks.

It is a Nvidia MCP89 graphics card. When the Ubuntu 18 was first installed, we had addressed this issue as others had pointed out that the nature of graphics card leading to boot issues in certain systems.

On Kubuntu:
I opted for default X.org driver, though I have installed the Nvidia driver

On Ubuntu:
I believe that it is the same. 

Please note that it was working fine until a new partition was added with Kubuntu 20.0.4 in it.

Coming to nomodeset, I tried three different ways -

1. Grub line editor: adding nomodeset at the end
2. Grub line editor: nouveau.display = 0
3. Directly on the grub.cfg file after mounting the drive

---

### Post by ssk1234 on 2020-08-08
By the way, connected to this, once I chroot to a mounted drive, would apt commands work automatically on the mounted drive? I tried and update worked fine. However, upgrade appeared to have some issues. Is there a good reference on accessing, managing and optimizing mounted partitions from another partition?

What is the best way to manage another partition effectively to update drivers etc once I chroot to that mounted partition?

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-08-08
> [COLOR=#000000]By the way, connected to this, once I chroot to a mounted drive, would apt commands work automatically on the mounted drive? [/COLOR]

Yes.



> [COLOR=#000000]I tried and update worked fine. However, upgrade appeared to have some issues.[/COLOR]
Please elaborate. Please post the complete error messages. Maybe we can find the problem there. In any case, not GRUB, leave it alone.

---

### Post by ssk1234 on 2020-08-08
@CelticWarrior:

Let me elaborate further on the basis of this project. I have several devices transformed to linux systems, Chromebooks and Laptops. This happened to be the first macbook conversion. As long as I had the first partition of Ubuntu, it appeared to be working fine, but then adding the second one, along with expanding containers might have confused the system. 

There was a nice discussion on Ubuntu in Macbook, which appeared to align with my issue. Even the system appeared to be very similar. However, when I went through the sequence, the update-grub command resulted in an error that pertained to /cow. Having spent time on this one for some time now, I decided to start fresh. Backed up the content, cleaned up the partitions and installed a new Ubuntu. Now, it is working fine at least as of now.

References:
1. Nvidia graphic card - boot screen issue
this reference very much aligned with my findings -
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1227388/setpci-is-not-setting-registers-at-boot-macbook-pro-7-1-nvidia-black-screen](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1227388/setpci-is-not-setting-registers-at-boot-macbook-pro-7-1-nvidia-black-screen)

2. [https://askubuntu.com/questions/744419/blank-screen-after-nvidia-install;](https://askubuntu.com/questions/744419/blank-screen-after-nvidia-install;) 
3. [https://askubuntu.com/questions/1107092/ubuntu-18-04-cannot-boot-after-installing-the-nvidia-driver](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1107092/ubuntu-18-04-cannot-boot-after-installing-the-nvidia-driver)

Findings:
There was also grub issue, and boot repair certainly appeared to address the issue to a larger extent for at least this one.

When it comes to boot screen issue, it certainly pertained to the graphic card driver, which is what led me back to the first reference mentioned above that I discarded before. After our exchange, I decided to confirm the issue, and I installed the recommended nvidia driver to the Kubuntu partition. When I rebooted, I started seeing a black screen for this partition too.

---

