---
title: "hp f4240"
date: 2008-10-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dgerwin11 on 2008-10-25
I have tried everything to get my hp all in one to work on this ubuntu machine, to no avail.  Please do not direct to hplip or toolkit, as I have done that 43 times, as evidenced by the printer console telling me I have completed 43 print jobs, but not one has printed, not one page.

I have followed all the advice faithfully, and what solves the problem for others does not work on my machine.  

Could it be a malfunction of some piece of component in the box, or possibly something in initial set up.

Should I download ubuntu 8.04 and have it write over the original install?

Also System>Admin>hardware drivers shows "no proprietary drivers are in use on this system"   Could that mean anything in re this problem

---

### Post by Miljet on 2008-10-25
I have a HP 4180 all-in-one and it connected with no problems.

"No proprietary drivers" should not be a factor.  Most HP printers use the drivers included in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-10-25
I have an HP f4185, it works fine - can only guess that something has gone wrong during installation. You can:
1) Reinstall ubuntu, ensuring the printer is plugged in during installation. The printer should be installed during the OS installation or
2) Go to the hp site and download the self-extracting installer and follow the instructions - the self-extracting installer takes 20-30 minutes to do everything, but seems to work well.
I'd go for option 2 first - if it doesn't work, it is likely that there has been some kind of corruption during the installation of ubuntu, thus go back to option 1 - backup anything important before pursuing option 1. HP have very good linux support.

---

