---
title: ".deb add-on packages"
date: 2014-04-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by patrick-w-mcmahon on 2014-04-23
I'm working on a java program that will be installed onto Ubuntu servers. This program will have add-on's to add functionality for different users. Rather then putting it all in one big .deb pack i would like to have the add-on's show up under the program in the software center as add-on's so the user can add what they need after installing the software. I have seen this in the software center for other applications. What i would like to know is the following.
Is there an easy tutorial on how to make add-on's .deb packages for a program. 
What steps would i have to do in my application to add support for add-on .deb packages or will it be something that the add-on will need to manage.
steps on managing add-ons in the software center management panel so i can add new add-ons to the listing for the application. 
also as i must not be the only one wanting to make a program that also has add-on's available for users. if by any chance there is tutorials for other languages other then java they should also be posted for others to find. 
I would also like to know how to list my application for installation on a ubuntu server from the ubuntu software center. Example if i have a ubuntu server and a ubuntu desktop can i manage the software on my server from the desktop using the ubuntu software center and if so i would like to know how to list the .deb under ubuntu server category.

Thank you.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2014-04-23
> **patrick-w-mcmahon said:**
> Is there an easy tutorial on how to make add-on's .deb packages for a program.
The package manager treats packages as independent groups of software, within limits defined in the control file.
An add-on should install to the application's add-on directory. Example /usr/share/frobnicator/add-ons/my_add_on
The add-on package should depend on the main package.


> **patrick-w-mcmahon said:**
> What steps would i have to do in my application to add support for  add-on .deb packages or will it be something that the add-on will need  to manage.
Required support: Only the ability to recognize that an add-on has been installed/uninstalled and make it available/unavailable to the user. the same as non-packaged applications.
Optional support: If you want to download/install/reinstall/uninstall add-on packages from within your application, then your application should talk to the PackageKit daemon via dbus.


> **patrick-w-mcmahon said:**
> also as i must not be the only one wanting to make a program that also  has add-on's available for users. if by any chance there is tutorials  for other languages other then java they should also be posted for  others to find.
Neither the system nor the packages care what language the software is written in, so this is a bit confusing. A link to the java example you are working from may help us to understand.



> **patrick-w-mcmahon said:**
> I would also like to know how to list my application for installation on  a ubuntu server from the ubuntu software center. Example if i have a  ubuntu server and a ubuntu desktop can i manage the software on my  server from the desktop using the ubuntu software center and if so i  would like to know how to list the .deb under ubuntu server category.

Well, server and desktop are rather similar under the hood - many users have desktop GUIs on a server install, and many users run servers from a desktop install. So specifying that your software is intended for Ubuntu Server (rather than *any* Ubuntu server) may limit your potential audience.

Canonical's Landscape service allows a sysadmin to do package admin on remote servers without logging into it. They charge for that. The rest of us generally login using SSH or Webmins or similar tools to administer a remote server. Software Center is for your local install only, and cannot be used to administer a remote system beyond it's sync feature.

---

### Post by patrick-w-mcmahon on 2014-04-24
Thank you this gives me a good starting point for my .deb package now i know that i should be looking into PackageKit to fine tune my searches and research into package making. By any chance is there a simple tutorial on how to check if a package is installed using java?

---

### Post by patrick-w-mcmahon on 2014-04-24
a good example of what i'm attempting to do is if you go on the ubuntu software center and look up gimp you will see on the gimp detail page a section called "Optional add-ons" to include an add-on is as easy as checking a box on the gimp details page. This is what i'm attempting to do when setting up my .deb file on the software center. all the add-ons will be under the Optional add-ons section of my application in the software center. There looks to be very little information about how to set something like this up.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2014-04-24
> **patrick-w-mcmahon said:**
> By any chance is there a simple tutorial on how to check if a package is installed using java?

Query PackageKit using dbus.
Query pretty much all system functions and features using dbus.
Indeed, under Convergence, many applications have a small display-specific front-end and large logical back-end...that communicate using dbus.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2014-04-25
> **patrick-w-mcmahon said:**
> ...This program will have add-on's to  add functionality for different users. Rather then putting it all in one  big .deb pack i would like to have the add-on's show up under the  program in the software center as add-on's so the user can add what they  need after installing the software. I have seen this in the software  center for other applications.
> **patrick-w-mcmahon said:**
> a good example of what i'm attempting to do is if you go on the ubuntu software center and look up gimp you will see on the gimp detail page a section called "Optional add-ons" to include an add-on is as easy as checking a box on the gimp details page. ... There looks to be very little information about how to set something like this up.
Well, I found this earlier via a quick web search:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter#Add-on_packages](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter#Add-on_packages)

Regards.

---

### Post by patrick-w-mcmahon on 2014-04-25
so from what i have been reviewing on the recommends section on that link that was posted. should the user do an "apt-get remove mySoftware" will it also be smart and know that it should also remove all add-ons then remove the software or do i need to have some kind of script in mySoftware .deb file for its uninstall script.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2014-04-25
> **patrick-w-mcmahon said:**
> so from what i have been reviewing on the recommends section on that link that was posted. should the user do an "apt-get remove mySoftware" will it also be smart and know that it should also remove all add-ons then remove the software...
If you specify the main package as a 'dependency' of the add-on packages, which you should, of course, then yes - also see here:

[LIST]
[*][https://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/debian-faq/ch-pkg_basics.en.html#s-depends](https://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/debian-faq/ch-pkg_basics.en.html#s-depends) 
[*][https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-relationships.html](https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-relationships.html) 
[/LIST]

---

### Post by patrick-w-mcmahon on 2014-04-25
from what i have been reading it looks like if i use dbus if others want to make add-ons for my software they can make the add-on in any language they want as dbus works over all of them (c++,java...) if i am correct about this that would be great for others that want to extend my software with there own add-ons. my software will be using java memory pools for fast access and keeping objects ready to be used. the only thing i can think of that would make this not work with an add-on thats c++ is that it would not be able to be part of the same memory pool.

this is the tutorial i have been reading on dbus: 
[http://rm5248.com/d-bus-tutorial/](http://rm5248.com/d-bus-tutorial/)

---

### Post by patrick-w-mcmahon on 2014-04-25
when a .deb file is installing can i send a dbus command on the .deb install script to let my software know that an add-on is being installed or uninstalled? That way my software can setup tables and other needed resources for the add-on.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2014-04-27
I answered your specific question near the bottom:

Example:

I choose to install package Foo from Software Center (SC).
SC communicates with PackageKit via dbus.
Packagekit tells apt to download and install Foo. Feedback to the user is sent to the requesting application (SC). So the user thinks SC did all the work.

Foo needs the libfoo1 package to function. libfoo1 is listed as a dependency in Foo's package control file. Apt quietly keeps track of those dependencies...indeed of *all* dependencies of *all* packages in *all* repositories that it knows about... and will automatically download and install libfoo1 whenever Foo is requested, and will install the two packages in the correct order.

Another package, Foo-frob is an optional add-on to Foo. Foo-frob is listed as an 'optional' or 'recommends' dependency of Foo, and Foo is listed as a required dependecy of Foo-frob. If a user selects Foo-frob in SC, Foo (and libfoo1) will all be automatically installed if needed. If a user selects to install Foo, libfoo1 will definitely be installed, and Foo-frob might be (depends on the package manager settings, set by the user, not settable by you or a package).

You can use AptUrl links on any web page to install packages - you don't need to muck around with SC if you don't want to.

If you write a add-ons screen to Foo, Foo can talk to PackageKit to install/uninstall add-ons.

But your question is about the opposite case: If a user installs Foo-frob, how will Foo know? However you want your application to receive signals is the best way. There is *no* requirement to use dbus to communicate within your application's ecosystem. Only system services require dbus. For everything else it's just another convenient tool.

One way is to use inotify to monitor changes in the add-ons directory, and throw a "Hey you need to restart this application" notification at the user whenever a changed file is detected.

Another is for the add-on to directly send a message to the application after installation (using a postinstall or pre-remove script). The method of sending a message could be a named pipe, a socket, a shell command, a dbus message, or any other method you wish.

Another is for the add-on's pre-install (and pre-remove) script to stop your application and the post-install (and post-remove) script to start the application again. This assumes, of course, that your application is able to save and restore it's data and state cleanly and quickly if it needs to.

---

### Post by patrick-w-mcmahon on 2014-04-28
I would like to let the software know of install/remove of add-ons in the most effective and standard way. I want to follow ubuntu standards and work nice in side the OS ecosystem. What is the best option to do so? you have listed a few options. scripts in the add-on to restart foo, dbus to let foo know, AptUrl links. What would be the ubuntu way of doing this?

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2014-04-28
All are 'the Ubuntu way.' All are supported, effective, and considered to be among the standard ways applications interact. Use whichever works best with your application and your users' workflow.

Personally, my taste runs to doing most of the work in the add-on package's control file:
- Install add-ons to /usr/shared/my_application/add-ons
- Have the post-install and post-remove scripts tell your application to reload all the add-ons in the directory. It's a script, so shell commands work just fine:  "$ my_application --reload-add-ons."  Of course, this means your package needs to receive the 'reload add-ons' command or signal, and is written so it's capable of doing so.

The only caveat is if you want other applications (beyond yours) to know about the new add-on...which does not seem to apply in your case. Then you would also broadcast a dbus signal that they are (supposedly) listening for.

---

