---
title: "12.0.4 LTS &quot; usermod: cannot lock /etc/passwd; try again later &quot;"
date: 2013-05-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bkny on 2013-05-14
Hi ..

complete newbee to this, been years since I ran a liveCD.

last week downloaded the iso and made a liveUSB and did some testing.

I had come across a bunch of permission issues, researched, found answers, and figured all set when I get the dedicated linux box.
It actually had 12.0.4 LTS on it... (wasn't suppose to, but they wanted to see if the drivers were there for their newest mb and such).

So went forward on getting access to the serial ports.

installed setserial.

Ran "sudo setserial -g /dev/ttyS* "
*List of the coms:, permission denied".
as expected from the liveUSB testing.

Learned  I needed to add my user to one of the applicable groups... dialout or root.
so first tried dialout

" sudo usermod -a -G dialout myuser "

 and I received..

" usermod: cannot lock /etc/passwd; try again later " .

same when I tried root.

I didn't have this problem with the liveUSB

So for giggles thinking something was up with the install from my distributor, I did a fresh install from the ISO I downloaded last week and made the liveUSB from.

same thing. Fudge..

Tried reboots in between. NG.

More research..

tried..

"cat /proc/mounts "
and my seems to be RW ...
"rootfs / rootfs rw 0 0"

I searched for *.lock files in etc/ ..
none.
Same thing , different hour.

Then thinking cause I had unchecked install updates while installing and also deactivated updates, thought, who knows, so reinstalled and let it do all it's updates.

Same thing, different hour, again.


I'm out of sorts with any solution from googling...



TIA.

-Bob

---

### Post by bkny on 2013-05-14
Update ,
Sorry for even posting.
I wrote what I thought I was typing at the cmd line, just discovered I kept leaving out "sudo" in my   " sudo usermod -a -G dialout myuser "" , boy do I feel like a real squeaky clean newbee.
how many times did I type that in at the cmd line, but I type correctly in my post above . GEEZ .
Just wasted a few hours on that mistake.

---

