---
title: ".tar.gz file"
date: 2011-12-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dzihack on 2011-12-29
[B]Greetings ..


Sir how can I run a .tar.gz file ?? ]


Thanks in advanced :))
[/B]

---

### Post by halitech on 2011-12-29
first you need to extract it. from there it will depend on what you have downloaded. what are you trying to install/run?

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-12-29
> **dzihack said:**
> [B]Greetings ..


Sir how can I run a .tar.gz file ?? ]


Thanks in advanced :))
[/B]

It's just a compresses archive, like a .zip or .rar. And in the same way it can contain any files. So you can't run the .tar.gz file.

Instead you can of course extract it's contents and then do whatever you want with them.

(If you downloaded a program in this format there's still no generic rule what to do with it, as like I said the archive can contain any types of files. Check any readme files in th archive itself, or developer's web site, for instructions. And of course always remember to look for software in Ubuntu's repositories first ;))

---

### Post by marbertone on 2011-12-29
Pragmatically,
what you have to do is:
```
tar xf fileyouwanttoextract.tar.gz
```
or
```
file-roller fileyouwanttoextract.tar.gz
```
to open it with the graphical interface.
Hope this helps!
p.s.
a short survey to .tar and .gz :
tar is to put many files into one: 
to create an archive: tar cf archive.tar list_of_files
to visualize what's in an archive: tar tvf archive.tar
to unpack: tar xf archive.tar
gzip is to pack files (gunzip to unpack). In addition, you can specify the compression ratio like this (1 the minimum, 9 the maximum): gzip -9 file.
Gzip will add a .gz extension to the zipped file.
But Gzip is not the best one! I'd rather suggest you 7zip, which works similarly. I.e., to create an archive you have to do 7z c archive.7z list_of_files.

for any doubt, write "man 7z" or "man tar" or "man gzip" or "man gunzip" to know everything about these commands.

Cheers,
Mario Alberto:popcorn:

---

