---
title: "System is using an invisible GRUB"
date: 2010-01-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by perito on 2010-01-07
ok I have no idea how this is even possible.
I have Ubuntu and Windows 7 and both a working properly, the only problem is my GRUB. It's stuck and I can't update it (it shows a wrong link to my windows 7 so i cant enter it)

What I did:
Uninstall grub2 and re install grub, everything in the files seemed perfect, but the system didnt start using the newly installed grub.

I then reinstalled grub2 and when i check menu.lst its correct, but the system is not using it !! its using something else (another menu.lst and another grub)

I'm not using any live CDS ... Where is that grub that the system is using and how can I make it use MY new grub?

---

### Post by marcopolo1981 on 2010-01-07
It is possible that you may still be running Grub2.
Grub2 no longer uses /boot/grub/menu.lst. It uses /boot/grub/grub.cfg, which you are not supposed to edit.

Because you installed grub legacy, /boot/grub/menu.lst will have entries.

enter this in a terminal:

sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg 

BUT DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!

If it exists and contains any text, Grub2 is still being used.

You might have to use synaptic to fully uninstall Grub2 to, then update grub legacy to make sure that you aren't left with an unbootable system. There are tutorials how to do this on the forums.

Mark

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-01-07
> **perito said:**
> ok I have no idea how this is even possible.
I have Ubuntu and Windows 7 and both a working properly, the only problem is my GRUB. It's stuck and I can't update it (it shows a wrong link to my windows 7 so i cant enter it)

What I did:
Uninstall grub2 and re install grub, everything in the files seemed perfect, but the system didnt start using the newly installed grub.

I then reinstalled grub2 and when i check menu.lst its correct, but the system is not using it !! its using something else (another menu.lst and another grub)

I'm not using any live CDS ... Where is that grub that the system is using and how can I make it use MY new grub?

Reinstall grub2 from the livecd.
[http://www.ubuntu-inside.me/2009/06/howto-recover-grub2-after-windows.html](http://www.ubuntu-inside.me/2009/06/howto-recover-grub2-after-windows.html)

---

