---
title: "10.10, I'm Pulling My Hair Out!!  Help"
date: 2011-03-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ken0069 on 2011-03-23
Ok after multiple clean installs trying to "fix" stuff that didn't work for me I'm down to this freaking time zone problem!!

FYI, this is a multi boot system that I disconnected the other Windows drives from while I installed 10.10 on it's own drive.  No matter what I do my system clock gets screwed up EVERY time I boot into ubuntu.  I've downloaded the ntp stuff, set the time zones and update server all to no avail as it STILL defaults to a time zone 4 hours different from my Windows operating systems.  I never had this problem with 9.04 or 9.10 but 10.10 has really stretched my patience, ie, 4 clean installs trying to correct this damn time problem????

Can some one PLEASE tell me how to stop ubuntu from changing my system clock???

Thanks,

Ken

---

### Post by yeats on 2011-03-23
Try the instructions in this post:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3916725&postcount=10](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3916725&postcount=10)

and see if that solves your problem.

---

### Post by ken0069 on 2011-03-24
(SOLVED)  Hey thanks yeats that seems to have fixed it!  

I've been searching in here trying to find that post but nothing I used in search terms brought it up.  I found a bunch of others that I tried and wound up messing up the install so I did the install twice before you pointed me in the right direction.  Seems I had seen something similar to that back a year or so ago with 10.04 but as I said, I couldn't find it this time.  It's also odd that installs of 9.04/10 asked if you wanted UTC time during the installation?  I guess someone forgot to include that in these latest versions.  Be interesting to see if it gets into the next distro.

Anywho, thanks again for the help!

Ken

---

### Post by picman1 on 2011-03-24
Nicely done Yeats. I'm a newbie in here and that's the kind of response I look for when asking a question... a direct answer (with link in this case). No nonsense, no sending one to a forum and having them search for themselves... just a straight forward answer with link. If everyone supplied answers like that, we would all be grateful, we would all learn what we need to and then us newbies would move onward to further Linux learning. That's what I expected when I first came to these forums. Your post, although not directed toward me, was refreshing and a nice reminder that there are good people in here ready and willing to help us newbies. :D

Jim

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-03-24
Glad to see you got the time zone problem taken care of.

As for the problem with pulling your hair out. Please have a close friend or relative duct tape your hands behind your back until the urge subsides. :wink:

---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2011-03-24
ken try this i had to do this to fix problem i duel boot have windows and linux on their own hard drive. it works



[http://lifehacker.com/#!5742148/fix-...ting-with-os-x](http://lifehacker.com/#!5742148/fix-...ting-with-os-x)

---

### Post by ken0069 on 2011-03-26
> **rburkartjo said:**
> ken try this i had to do this to fix problem i duel boot have windows and linux on their own hard drive. it works



[http://lifehacker.com/#!5742148/fix-...ting-with-os-x]("http://lifehacker.com/#%215742148/fix-...ting-with-os-x")

Thanks for the link but it's much easier to fix one OS than to fix four.  My system has 6 hard drives in it and each has it's own OS.  I've got XP on 3, Windows 7 on one, Windows Vista on another and Ubuntu on one also so it's much easier to make Ubuntu work with Windows than it is to make all of my Windows work with Ubuntu.  ;)

Now, if making my N13 USB wireless adapter run at N speed was this simple I'd have it made!

And thanks again guys!

Ken

---

### Post by yeats on 2011-03-26
> **ken0069 said:**
> (SOLVED)  Hey thanks yeats that seems to have fixed it!  

I've been searching in here trying to find that post but nothing I used in search terms brought it up.  I found a bunch of others that I tried and wound up messing up the install so I did the install twice before you pointed me in the right direction.  Seems I had seen something similar to that back a year or so ago with 10.04 but as I said, I couldn't find it this time.  It's also odd that installs of 9.04/10 asked if you wanted UTC time during the installation?  I guess someone forgot to include that in these latest versions.  Be interesting to see if it gets into the next distro.

Anywho, thanks again for the help!

Ken

Happy to help!  I've never seen the problem myself, but I have seen others mention it before.

> **picman1 said:**
> Nicely done Yeats. I'm a newbie in here and that's the kind of response I look for when asking a question... a direct answer (with link in this case). No nonsense, no sending one to a forum and having them search for themselves... just a straight forward answer with link. If everyone supplied answers like that, we would all be grateful, we would all learn what we need to and then us newbies would move onward to further Linux learning. That's what I expected when I first came to these forums. Your post, although not directed toward me, was refreshing and a nice reminder that there are good people in here ready and willing to help us newbies. :D

Jim

Thanks!  I'm a former newbie myself and a librarian who likes to connect people with resources.  When I know what the problem is, I try to share the solution in a clear way.  Others may think that's "hand holding", but I know from my own experience that sometimes you just need the missing piece of the puzzle to figure out the problem, and I'm happy to provide it when I can.

---

