---
title: "10.04 frozen."
date: 2010-05-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sinlesstomorrow on 2010-05-08
I know that there are some similar known bugs, but I haven't come across any that are exactly the same...
 
After I downloaded 10.04 and restarted to finish the upgrade, everything started up as usual except that I can't click anything. The cursor still responds fine though. I can use keyboard shortcuts to get to terminal and from there I've been able to reboot and shut down, but I don't know anything else to do with terminal that might help.
 
Don't know if this is important, but I did a hard reboot twice before I figured out how to get to terminal. > . <;;
 
All I've been able to do is revert to my Vista partition, but I'm not able to access a lot of my files, which wasn't a problem before.
 
Please help!

---

### Post by paydaydaddy on 2010-05-08
Try recovery by hitting esc just before boot to hard drive. Watch the various post screens as the computer is going through the boot process and you will see something about hitting esc. You have about a 3 second window to hit the esc button. You will then be taken to a screen where you have several options. First try recovery for the most recent kernel then reboot. If the problem persists try safe graphics mode and see if it will boot and allow you to check configuration. If not then try booting with an earlier kernel.

---

### Post by sinlesstomorrow on 2010-06-29
I tried what you said, fooled around with it for a few hours, got frustrated, gave up and booted Vista. Months later, I REALLY want my files back and I'm going to try again. Is there anyway that I can go back to 9.10? Keep in mind that one I boot Ubuntu, I can't do ANYTHING outside of terminal....*sigh*

Help is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-06-29
The only way to go back to 9.10 is to reinstall.

If you've got a hard drive or usb stick you want to copy your data to, you would need to mount it and then copy the data to it.

```
man mount
```

```
man cp
```

---

### Post by Jakiejake on 2010-06-29
Just Reinstall 10.04 From Fresh!
Backup using the method that the last person said

---

### Post by sinlesstomorrow on 2010-06-29
I don't know how to reinstall. I have already backed up everything that I need from the Windows partition, just in case, but it's the files on the other one that I'm worried about, and I can't get to them.

---

### Post by Jakiejake on 2010-06-29
> **sinlesstomorrow said:**
> I don't know how to reinstall. I have already backed up everything that I need from the Windows partition, just in case, but it's the files on the other one that I'm worried about, and I can't get to them.

Remove your linux partition with Gparted Live CD
Then put in your ubuntu disk

---

### Post by sinlesstomorrow on 2010-06-29
I've never heard of Gparted Live CD and I didn't install with a disc....

Is there anything that I can do with terminal, because that is *honestly* all I have to work with....

---

