---
title: "8.10 Issues with Suspend"
date: 2009-08-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by virtualsamana on 2009-08-01
I am using a live USB. I love it. I am having issues with Suspend though. Besides the typical wireless network card issues, it also seems that my mouse preferences (specifically disabling clicks with touchpad) are lost when the system comes out of suspension. Also, I suspect some of my power setting preferences are discarded. Are these known issues?

Thanks

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-08-01
try using a newer verison like 9.04

suspend has been an issue with Linux for a while, because of bad or non-existant drivers from tech companies.

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2009-08-01
i could not get suspend/hibernate to work in Hardy or Intrepid. but when I did a clean install of jaunty it worked out of the box! No tweaks required.

---

### Post by virtualsamana on 2009-08-02
Cool. I'll eventually try upgrading and see if that fixes the issues.

---

### Post by presence1960 on 2009-08-02
> **virtualsamana said:**
> Cool. I'll eventually try upgrading and see if that fixes the issues.

Be careful if you do a dist-upgrade. If you look back in time since jaunty came out you will see a rather disproportionate amount of threads in which the OP has major problems after doing an upgrade. I prefer and always do clean installs. That is my preference. This is not to say that every dist-upgrade will result in problems or a broken system, but i haven't read too many Jaunty clean installs messing up other than those systems with Intel/ATI vid cards. But that is only because the vendor has stopped supporting those cards.

---

