---
title: "8.04 help"
date: 2008-05-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dylondadank on 2008-05-12
okay, i upgraded too 8.04. and its like everything is messed up now, my volume wont go as loud as it used too, the screen resolution is set too high, and when i try too change it via system > preferences > screen resolution an error reads:
The X Server does not support the XRandR extension.  Runtime resolution changes to the display size are not available.

i want it back how it was, i dont like it like this, help?

---

### Post by Cypher on 2008-05-12
There is no way of downgrade the OS back to 7.10 from 8.04, so you'd have to re-install. If you've saved all your important files and are willing to try, you can try re-installing 8.04 from scratch as opposed to the upgrade and see if things work better for you..

---

### Post by dylondadank on 2008-05-12
there is nothing quick and easy?

man i love linux, but everything is so complicated just too fix little problems, like screen resolution and sound. pretty soon im just going to run this computer over and buy a new mac or something...

---

### Post by cmnorton on 2008-05-12
> **dylondadank said:**
> okay, i upgraded too 8.04. and its like everything is messed up now, my volume wont go as loud as it used too, the screen resolution is set too high, and when i try too change it via system > preferences > screen resolution an error reads:
The X Server does not support the XRandR extension.  Runtime resolution changes to the display size are not available.

i want it back how it was, i dont like it like this, help?

Hopefully, you backed up your system before upgrading. It sounds like your system is running, so as long as you have a network connection and can get to an X-term (command line), backup everything valuable, if you did not do this before), and re-install 7.10. 

Then monitor these forums and Ubuntu launchpad to see your bugs getting fixed, and decided later on down the line to install 8.04. 

A lot of collective wisdom in these forums believes in clean installs instead of upgrades. I wanted to disbelieve their advice, but although more costly in time, I believe in a nice, fresh clean install now that I have been through a few upgrades. 

Ubuntu is still one of the friendliest Linux distros to use, but, from my perspective, this release has been difficult on a lot of people.

---

### Post by dylondadank on 2008-05-12
yeah, i will work on all this later, i gotta head out too work, thanks for the advice

---

### Post by ruha on 2008-05-12
double click on the volume icon in the top panel, or type gnome-volume-control in a terminal, go to edit > preferences and mark everything, then increase the volume to the maximum for all the options and the sound should be just as loud as it was in 7,10

---

### Post by firefeather on 2008-05-12
> **dylondadank said:**
> okay, i upgraded too 8.04. and [...] my volume wont go as loud as it used [to]

You might see if the mixer settings were changed on upgrade.

Right click on the volume icon by the clock. Click *Open Volume Control*, and then make sure *PCM* is turned up all the way. This makes sure the input is turned up all the way it can be so the output can go loud.

---

### Post by SlappyPappy on 2008-05-12
Bumped into some people working on something similar to your issue. Hope it helps.

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/31024](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/31024)

Good luck friend!  :)

---

