---
title: "D.O.S box on login"
date: 2012-08-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Belaluna on 2012-08-07
I know nothing about Ubuntu. That being said, last update it said we needed (version 11.10)  has caused some trouble. If I log on to user, I get a Dos type of window in the upper left screen that says user@user:~$ then a curser box. What do I put in there to make it boot the rest of the OS so we can use it? If I type exit it sends me back to the login screen.

---

### Post by lkraemer on 2012-08-08
It sounds as if you were upgrading your system to Version 11.10 and somehow
you got dumped out to a Terminal (Console)......Most likely #1.

So see which one you are in type ```
ls -alt
```.
Then type these Keystrokes (commands) in order:
```

CNTL ALT F6
CNTL ALT F5
CNTL ALT F4
CNTL ALT F3
CNTL ALT F2
CNTL ALT F1

```
When you see the directory listing's text that is the corresponding Terminal......

There are Six Terminals.....CNTL ALT F1 thru CNTL ALT F6
And there is a way to get back to the system's GUI which is:
CNTL ALT F7

So, now try CNTL ALT F7 (those three keys all depressed and held in sequence).

If that doesn't work try typing ```
startx
``` in your Terminal Window.


LK

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-08-08
> **Belaluna said:**
> If I log on to user, I get a Dos type of window in the upper left screen that says user@user:~$ then a curser box. What do I put in there to make it boot the rest of the OS so we can use it? If I type exit it sends me back to the login screen.

Hi , 
when you are in this black screen , login with username&password . Write down (to a paper or mobile photo) below commands and write them with order.
```
sudo service lightdm stop
sudo dpkg --configure -a 
sudo apt-get install -f 
sudo chown username:username /home/username/.Xauthority
sudo service lightdm start 
```
you must replace username with your actual username. 
Last command will bring up the login screen . Try then to login again and tell us if worked.
Thanks

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-08-08
Just so's you know: what it looks like has happened is that the graphical user interface has somehow been corrupted. 

This
```
user@user:~$
```
indicates that the system is up and running and you are logged on, but the graphical user interface, the desktop that you normally see, has failed to start (or not been started) for some reason.

In the hopes of calming you down: your system is a little bit broken, but the important bits like your data and what have your _*are*_ still all there. Given the right commands, you could find all your files from there and move them off onto another drive or whatever you like. All you have to do is get the graphical user interface working again, and you'll be back in business.

Follow NikTh's advice. That looks good.

Oh yeah: the command line, where you are now, does look a bit like dos, but what you are seeing is actually the Linux system itself, the layer the is "underneath" the graphical user interface. If you open a terminal on a "normal" installation, you will also see that prompt.

---

