---
title: "12.04 upgrade solutions for others"
date: 2012-05-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2012-05-12
2 problems I had and here are solutions 1) no upgrade option shown from update manager , alt-f2 , or terminal. So I changed software settings from notifying of LTS only to every new release and then 12.04 gave the upgrade option even though it is a LTS it didn't show upgrade option until I changed that setting.2)upgrade appears to hang forever unless you click the details arrow, then options pop up that require responses. If details aren't shown you just wait and wait and never know why. Hope this helps a few other people.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2012-05-12
> **cmcanulty said:**
> 2 problems I had and here are solutions 1) no upgrade option shown from update manager , alt-f2 , or terminal. So I changed software settings from notifying of LTS only to every new release and then 12.04 gave the upgrade option even though it is a LTS it didn't show upgrade option until I changed that setting.2)upgrade appears to hang forever unless you click the details arrow, then options pop up that require responses. If details aren't shown you just wait and wait and never know why. Hope this helps a few other people.


First off, I hope you've had a problem-free upgrade experience.
Secondly, I have read of people who, while having upgrade set to LTS only, do not get a upgrade notification. Now whether this is a bug or Canonical's design I don't know.If it's the former, I'm sure the developers are working on it. But I suspect it's the latter, as it makes sense. The typical LTS user needs to be on the stablest system possible, and as such Canonical does recommend LTS users to wait to upgrade until after the first point release.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseUpgrades]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseUpgrades") 

As for hanging issues, I too have seen the seemingliless(is this a word?) of absolutely nothing happening. But I chalk it up to my complete lack of patience. If nothing happens while I sit back and drink my coffee, that's one thing. If nothing happens when I drive the family across the country on a road trip come back a week later and it's still on the same screen, that's a whole different thing.

---

