---
title: "16.04 lists printer E525W but does not have a driver that works"
date: 2016-10-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by milt3 on 2016-10-27
When I added my new printer Ubuntu listed the E525W printer but no driver.   I called Dell and was told no drive in available fpr Ubuntu 16.04.
Help ?    I am a new-be

---

### Post by Geoffrey_Arndt on 2016-10-28
Wonder why Dell told you that when it's not true?   Perhaps more Dell tech help training is in order? . . . .

[http://www.delldriver.net/dell-e525w-printer-driver-linux/](http://www.delldriver.net/dell-e525w-printer-driver-linux/)

Just download the zip'd file - move it from your downloads folder to a convenient folder.    I have a "stand-alone" packages folder for individual apps & drivers from multiple sources.   Anyway, once in the folder you want, uncompress the file via right clicking on it and choose "extract here" . . . then you'll see an RPM file and a DEB file.   Ignore the RPM file and right click the deb file.   You'll have a choice to install it via whatever package manager is your default.    

I like to download and install the package manager called "gdebi" . . . . you can do that through the software center or by downloading "Synaptic".    Synaptic is (in my view), the most complete install tool in Linux-Land.     Every user should at least try it.   Anyway, the deb printer driver package can now be installled in either the "Ubuntu Software . . or Gdebi . . or Synaptic.

Good Luck - - post back if you have any further questions.

---

### Post by milt3 on 2016-10-29
Hi Geoffery thanks for your help!   I tried down loading the drive from the website you gave me link to.   I got bogged down in extracting and loading the file to the proper place. 

Next I went back to trying to installing the E525 printer.  I preformed a trial and error method and surprise it worked.

Here are the settings that worked: Devise DRI  dnssd://Dell%20Color%20MFP%20E525w%20(0B%3A98%3A18)._pdl-datastream._tcp.local/  
next the impotant one:   Make and Model    Dell S2500 Foomatic/Postscript (recommended)

I know I should have tried that before, the Dell S2500 made me think it would only work with the S2500 but works fine with the E525W.  I have printed in all the formats I could think of and no glitches so far.   

Note
DRI is achieved by simple checking Dell

I agree Dell Tech's while sometimes trying to help seem to be low level tech's, or may be they know nothing about any Linux operation.

Again thanks for your help  Milt3

---

### Post by Geoffrey_Arndt on 2016-10-30
Good deal.    Glad it's working for you . . . I would have been surprised if Dell didn't support Linux . . . they have many big customers running Linux, plus they have the XPS series of laptops pre-equipped with Ubuntu.

---

