---
title: "10.04 system freezing."
date: 2010-05-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by | Gnome | on 2010-05-04
I am sick and tired! 
It happened with Ubuntu 9.1 also (It was ok with 9.04). I searched everywhere but didn't find the solution. Then I expected that 10.04 won't repeat that problem and waited for it with so much anticipation.
Now, after I installed 10.04, again the same problem repeats.
After it reaches to desktop, the system freezes itself; I don't need to do anything. It does the same even in live boot. I have tried and searched everywhere but in vain. Isn't there any solution? Sticking with the same problem for more than six months. Can't Ubuntu solve this problem? Anyone please?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-04
This is just a random guess (since you haven't provided any details of your hardware), but here goes: Does setting Compiz desktop effects to None (under the Appearance preferences) solve the problem?

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2010-05-04
Seriously, simply try a different distribution - Mandriva, Suse, Fedora...

The reason is that every distribution house tests with a large number of computers, but everybody doesn't test with every weird piece of kit ever manufactured.

That being said, your problem is likely due to the video device driver.

---

### Post by Seal Daemon on 2010-05-04
> **| Gnome | said:**
> Isn't there any solution? Sticking with the same problem for more than six months. Can't Ubuntu solve this problem? Anyone please?

Have you filled a bug report ?

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-04
> **| Gnome | said:**
> I am sick and tired! 
It happened with Ubuntu 9.1 also (It was ok with 9.04). I searched everywhere but didn't find the solution. Then I expected that 10.04 won't repeat that problem and waited for it with so much anticipation.
Now, after I installed 10.04, again the same problem repeats.
After it reaches to desktop, the system freezes itself; I don't need to do anything. It does the same even in live boot. I have tried and searched everywhere but in vain. Isn't there any solution? Sticking with the same problem for more than six months. Can't Ubuntu solve this problem? Anyone please?

People here will need to see system specs to help you. Looking on launchpad there are a couple of freeze bugs.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/572221](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/572221)

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-04
> **philinux said:**
> People here will need to see system specs to help you. Looking on launchpad there are a couple of freeze bugs.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/572221](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/572221)

When it freezes instead of a hard boot first try alt+sysrq+k then log back in.

Thread title changed.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2010-05-04
I presume that you set up dual-boot.  Just boot back into your working distro.

---

### Post by | Gnome | on 2010-05-04
I have an MSI mobo (945GCM7). Ubuntu 9.04 runs on it smoothly, so does windows.
Considering the problem in graphics, my **lspci** result is:

```
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ/P/PL Memory Controller Hub (rev 02)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller (rev 01)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 01)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 01)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 01)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 01)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 01)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 01)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 01)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev e1)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GB/GR (ICH7 Family) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 01)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) IDE Controller (rev 01)
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801GB/GR/GH (ICH7 Family) SATA IDE Controller (rev 01)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 01)
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 01)
```

Thanks for the replies.
I wanted to stick with Ubuntu, so not trying out other distros though other distros (except Linuxmint) don't have problem in my system.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-04
Yup, a well known-bug with Compiz and certain Intel 945G graphic chips. Not unique to Ubuntu. :) 

Did you try disabling desktop effects as I suggested in post #2?

---

### Post by | Gnome | on 2010-05-04
^^
Actually, it would freeze instantly after reaching desktop (sometimes after some seconds), so it was hard to change the settings. Then I booted in failsafe mode and  tried disabling desktop effects, but it was already disabled. 

Then what I did was, I turned KMS back on as told in  *[COLOR=Red][https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/572221]("http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/572221")[/COLOR]*
Now lo! it runs and doesn't freeze. But as soon as I enable the desktop effects to **Normal,** the problem repeats again. 
But it is boring to run that **effectless** Ubuntu. I want those visual effects too.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-04
It is an upstream bug (not Ubuntu's fault)... I've had the same freezing with current Ubuntu, Arch, and Fedora. Older distros work fine.

---

### Post by | Gnome | on 2010-05-04
I don't know such things but if Ubuntu doesn't run in my computer, then for me it's ubuntu's problem! ;)

Anyways, did you find anyways to solve this problem?
This **without effects ubuntu** is boring to use.
Thanks!

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-05
I do not use visual effects on that computer; they are not necessary for getting my work done (and they make my computer crash).

---

