---
title: "How do you install fancontrol? (13.04)"
date: 2013-05-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jakev3 on 2013-05-07
It seams as though all the tutorials I could find were for previous versions or I just messed up.
Does anyone know how to install it in 13.04?

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2013-05-07
I use the following steps:

Install fancontrol from the repositories (software center, synaptic or apt-get).

In a terminal (control-alt-t) run ```
sudo pwmconfig
``` and follow the instructions.

Then either run ```
sudo service fancontrol start
``` or reboot.

If it doesn't work, possibly your hardware isn't compatible with fancontrol or there's a loose connection to your fan.

---

### Post by P-I H on 2013-05-07
To manage control of fans I have installed 3 programs lm-sensors, fancontrol and psensor.
After installation of the programs I run
```
sudo sensors-detect
```
I think it is OK to answer yes on all questions
To configure fancontrol I run
```
sudo pwmconfig
```
That will generate the file /etc/fancontrol
I edit the file to suit my installation with pwm controll of both cpu fan and  system fans.
The file is hardware specific, so you probably cannot use this one, but this is how it looks
```
# Configuration file generated by pwmconfig, changes will be lost
INTERVAL=10
DEVPATH=hwmon0=devices/platform/it87.552
DEVNAME=hwmon0=it8720
FCTEMPS=hwmon0/device/pwm2=hwmon0/device/temp2_input
FCFANS= hwmon0/device/pwm2=hwmon0/device/fan2_input
MINTEMP=hwmon0/device/pwm2=20
MAXTEMP=hwmon0/device/pwm2=50
MINSTART=hwmon0/device/pwm2=150
MINSTOP=hwmon0/device/pwm2=0
FCTEMPS=hwmon0/device/pwm1=hwmon0/device/temp2_input
FCFANS= hwmon0/device/pwm1=hwmon0/device/fan1_input
MINTEMP=hwmon0/device/pwm1=20
MAXTEMP=hwmon0/device/pwm1=50
MINSTART=hwmon0/device/pwm1=150
MINSTOP=hwmon0/device/pwm1=0

```

Psensor is used to get an indicator in the panel, that shows temperatures and fan speeds

---

### Post by jakev3 on 2013-05-07
Thanks guys. I'm amusing that my hardware just isn't compatible.

---

### Post by b0wter on 2013-05-29
I am not 100% sure that your hardware is not supported. I have run into some issues with fancontrol myself.
I was using 12.04 on an old box with a perfectly running fancontrol. Without reinstalling I upgraded to 12.10 and 13.04. Fancontrol was still working correctly. However, after messing around with the box too much I decided it was time for a reinstall and afterwards fancontrol would no longer be able to control my fans... It finds my cpu fan and is able to determine its rpm but it is no longer able to control it. :[

---

### Post by Locus Kiesselbachi on 2013-05-29
Many motherboards allow to set fan speeds in BIOS. I made changes to my computer there. Good luck!

---

### Post by b0wter on 2013-05-29
Oh silly me... found the error. pwmconfig will not try to fiddle with any device that it assumes is automatically controlled. After explicitly telling the program to do so everything works fine :)

---

