---
title: "Automount issues"
date: 2008-10-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by trem0r on 2008-10-06
I know this was posted before but from reading those posts I was still unable to fix my problem since I don't know what to edit...Anyway I installed ntfs-config and this did not do anything at all.  The problem I have is that my external hdd does not automount and if it does it stays automounted for like 3 seconds and disappears.

My fstab is

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=c8dd9ba6-2fdb-4b0a-b969-5be410b66f2c / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=9c4277f7-4740-4e21-9747-62ad377396a6 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0


If there is anything else I need to post let me know.  I just switched from XP to ubuntu and aside from this automount issue I like this OS a lot.

---

### Post by namegame on 2008-10-06
I'm not sure if this is your problem, but it might help. It works with my drive.

If you used your drive in Windows, you need to choose the option to "safely remove" your drive. Otherwise, when you boot into Linux your drive won't mount.

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-10-06
since you installed ntfs-config, i am assuming that we are talking about mounting a drive thats formated to ntfs 

this link might help

(read Victormd's post on page 1)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=782363]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=782363")


also here is another good link
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1886&page=2]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1886&page=2")

---

