---
title: "9.04 disc burning advice ???"
date: 2009-07-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by NOTAGEEK on 2009-07-29
yesterday i took on a major challenge (to me) of creating a disc...

i downloaded the win 7 rc os from ms's site...

i am very definitely a NON-GEEK and would like advice on how i messed up this project, and how i might go about redoing it without errors...

when starting the download from ms's site the download manager from mozilla firefox (default?) took over the process... for 3.05 gb at an average of about 80 mb/s it took 11 hours for the download to finish... sure seems long to me, but i rolled with it and just let it do it's thing... 

when the download completed i started brasero and found my file and selected to burn a data disc...  i selected the "leave disc open" and also selected the slowest burn speed of 4x on a dvd+r disc...

after brasero did its thing it gave me an error msg and said something to the effect that there are possible errors on the last 10 mb of the disc i think... well something like that...

so my questions are...
is there a way to ck this disc ???
is this disc a waste of time ???
should i have gone about this project differently to have gotten better results ???
does 11 hours sound waaaaaay too long to download 3.05 gb ???
was the dvd+r the wrong format ???

all/any advise appreciated...

thanks...

---

### Post by NOTAGEEK on 2009-07-29
anybody offer advice on this ???

---

### Post by Kobalt on 2009-07-29
Assuming what you downloaded is a disk image (an ISO perhaps) you shouldn't chose "Data disc" but "burn a disk image". 
Try to burn at low speed as well.

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-07-29
> **NOTAGEEK said:**
> anybody offer advice on this ???


In brasero, bottom option, **Burn Image**.

---

### Post by NOTAGEEK on 2009-07-29
> **Kobalt said:**
> Assuming what you downloaded is a disk image (an ISO perhaps) you shouldn't chose "Data disc" but "burn a disk image". 
Try to burn at low speed as well.

> **philinux said:**
> In brasero, bottom option, **Burn Image**.


THAnks for the input---i tried reburning the file as an image and got the same results...

(error blah blah---some files may be corrupt...)

any other ideas ???

thanks...

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-07-29
Well personally I always use rw's for iso's. No coasters for me.

I tend to use k3b for burning, I've had trouble with brasero before.

DVD will hold 4.7 gig so the 3.0 gig iso should be no problem.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2009-07-29
[LIST]
[*]Is the Win7 an ISO file?
[*]Did it download correctly, and is there a way to verify it on MS page?
[*]Is your DVD clean and blank?
[*]Burn it at slowest possible speed, and make sure the ISO is in a reasonably fast disk drive, not USB.
[/LIST]

Brasero should work fine.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-07-29
I normally just right-click on the ISO file and select "burn to disc", or whatever the phrase is.

---

### Post by NOTAGEEK on 2009-07-29
> **philinux said:**
> Well personally I always use rw's for iso's. No coasters for me.

I tend to use k3b for burning, I've had trouble with brasero before.

DVD will hold 4.7 gig so the 3.0 gig iso should be no problem.

ok---thanks but im so much of a non geek i dont know what is meant by coasters, k3b, and i was under the impression from my reading and advice here that brasero was fine... im getting more confused...


> **NightwishFan said:**
> 
[LIST]
[*]Is the Win7 an ISO file?
[*]Did it download correctly, and is there a way to verify it on MS page?
[*]Is your DVD clean and blank?
[*]Burn it at slowest possible speed, and make sure the ISO is in a reasonably fast disk drive, not USB.
[/LIST]

Brasero should work fine.


yes---iso...
it seemed to download fine---yet took 11 hours for 3.05 gb at an average of 80mb per second... seems long time ???

i will check back to the ms site to see if there is a way to ck the dvd there...

brand new dvd+r disc...

burnt both times at slowest 4x's speed...

thanks...

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-07-29
A coaster as in for putting a hot cup onto. Bad burned cd dvd.

k3b is another burning app which you can install. As is gnomebaker.
Both in the repo's

---

### Post by NOTAGEEK on 2009-07-29
> **philinux said:**
> A coaster as in for putting a hot cup onto. Bad burned cd dvd.

k3b is another burning app which you can install. As is gnomebaker.
Both in the repo's

here is what the ms site had to say...

**             How to install the Windows 7 RC         **

Step 1: Get the download 
Collapse all
How to download the Windows 7 RC


[LIST=1]
[*]                                 Visit the [Windows 7 RC download page]("http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windows-7/get/download.aspx").                             
[*]Choose your language.
[*] Choose a 32-bit or 64-bit version of the RC. To see if your computer can run a 64-bit version of Windows, in Performance Information and Tools (Start>Control Panel>Performance Information and Tools) click **View and print details** and then look under **64-bit capable**. For more information that might help with your decision, see [32-bit and 64-bit Windows: Frequently asked questions]("http://windowshelp.microsoft.com/Windows/en-US/Help/41531554-d5ef-4f2c-8fb9-149bdc5c8a701033.mspx").                             
[*]Get a Windows 7 RC product key. (You can use the RC for 30 days without a product key, then you'll need it for activation.)
[*]Download the Windows 7 RC. Note: The RC won't be available after **August 20, 2009**.
[/LIST]



       .faq-hide .faq-answer        { 	      display:block;       }       p#toggle       {         font-size:.1em;         color:#F5F5F5;       }       Step 2: Create an installation DVD 
Collapse all
How to create an installation DVD

 The RC download is an ISO file, which you'll need to burn onto a blank disc before you can install it. To do that, you'll need to use software designed for burning ISO files. 
 In addition to commercial ISO burning software, there are free programs such as ISOBuster and Active ISO Burner. To find one, go to a site such as [Download.com]("http://www.download.com/") or [Tucows]("http://www.tucows.com/") and search for "ISO," "DVD," and "burn".                     
                         Follow the instructions that came with your program to create a Windows 7 RC installation disc.                     



       .faq-hide .faq-answer        { 	      display:block;       }       p#toggle       {         font-size:.1em;         color:#F5F5F5;       }       Step 3: Install the Windows 7 RC 
Collapse all
How to install the Windows 7 RC

 You'll need to do a "clean installation." That means you can't upgrade an existing PC to Windows 7 RC. So if you're using an existing PC and want to keep the information on it, you'll need to [back it up]("http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windows-7/get/pc-backup.aspx") before you start.                     

[LIST=1]
[*] Turn on your computer, insert the Windows 7 RC installation disc you created in step 2 into the computer's DVD or CD drive, and then do one of the following: 

[LIST]
[*]If you want to replace your computer's existing operating system with the Windows 7 RC, and you don't need to adjust your disk partitions, go to step 2.
[*] If your computer doesn't have an operating system installed, or you want to install the RC on another disk partition, restart your computer with the installation disc inserted in your CD or DVD drive. If you're asked to press a key to boot from DVD or CD, press any key. If the **Install Windows** page appears, go to step 2.                                         

                                            If the **Install Windows** page doesn't appear and you're not asked to press a key to start from DVD or CD, you might have to specify that your computer uses its DVD or CD drive as the startup device. See [Start Windows from a CD or DVD]("http://windowshelp.microsoft.com/Windows/en-US/Help/d95a0730-91af-4d46-8800-583531946be41033.mspx"). After you select your DVD or CD drive as the startup device, restart your computer, and then start Windows from the installation DVD or CD as previously described. 
[/LIST]
[*]                                 On the **Install Windows** page, follow the instructions, and then click **Install now**.                             
[*]                                 On the **Get important updates for installation** page, we recommend getting the latest updates to help ensure a successful installation and protect your computer against security threats. You need an Internet connection to get updates. 
[*]                                 On the **Please read the license terms** page, if you accept the license terms, click **I accept the license terms**. (You must accept to continue the installation.)                             
[*]                                 On the **Which type of installation do you want?** page, click **Custom**.                             
[*]                                 On the **Where do you want to install Windows?** page, do one of the following:                                 

[LIST]
[*] If you don't want to specify a specific partition to install Windows on, or create partitions on your hard disk, click **Next** to begin the installation.                                         
[*] If you already have another existing partition with enough free space and want to install the Windows 7 RC on that partition to create a multiboot configuration, select the partition you want to use, and then click **Next** to begin the installation. (Be sure to install the RC on a different partition from where your current version of Windows is installed.) 
[*]                                             If you want to create, extend, delete, or format a partition, click **Drive options (advanced)**, click the option you want, and then follow the instructions. Click **Next** to begin the installation. (If the **Drive options (advanced)** option is disabled, you need to start your computer using the installation disc.)                                         
[/LIST]
[*]                                 Follow the instructions.                             
[/LIST]
**Note about product keys:** When you download the RC, you'll be given a product key to use for activation. You don't have to activate when you install the RC, but after 30 days you'll get persistent reminders to activate. If you lost your key or have a disc without a key, just go to the Download page and start the download process. The first step is to register, and that's where you get a product key. You won't need to download the RC. If you have an installation disc, you can get a product key by going to the Download page and following the download process. You just need to give your Windows Live ID and register; you won't need to download the software. 



       .faq-hide .faq-answer        { 	      display:block;       }       p#toggle       {         font-size:.1em;         color:#F5F5F5;       }       **             Testing the RC         **

             The Windows 7 RC has lots of features to check out. For some ideas, see [What's new in Windows 7]("http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windows-7/whats-new.aspx").         
 As you work with Windows 7 RC, your system will automatically send information about errors so we can analyze issues and file bug reports where appropriate. In addition, we'd like to know what you think. 
**             Removing the RC         **

             The Windows 7 RC will stop working on **June 1, 2010**. To continue using your PC, please be prepared to reinstall a prior version of Windows or the final released version of Windows 7 before the expiration date. We recommend doing a custom (clean) installation. Here are [complete instructions]("http://support.microsoft.com/kb/971762") on how to uninstall the Pre-release version of Windows 7 and revert to a previous genuine operating system. 		


*Information about Windows 7 is preliminary and subject to change. Some product features of Windows 7, such as the ability to watch and record live TV or navigation through the use of "touch," may require advanced or additional hardware. The features and functionality you find in the pre-release product may not appear in the final version of Windows 7. If we change the software before it's released, we'll change this information accordingly. We're not making express or implied warranties with this information.*

---

### Post by Jerry N on 2009-07-29
It has been several weeks since I downloaded Win 7 RC but it downloaded **MUCH** faster than 80mb/sec.  I used Nero in Windows XP to create the image disk and burned it at the fastest speed, probably 12X.  Installed and worked just fine.  Sounds to me like you got a bad download.

Jerry

---

### Post by kelvin spratt on 2009-07-29
Microsoft say in a nutshell burn the ISO to a DVD disc make sure your bios is set to boot from Cd/DVD. 
To burn your iso use a top brand DVD preferably something like Verbatim I burn Image file at X16 on them with no problems, to burn the ISO to Disk right click on the image and click on burn image thats it. Good luck

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-07-29
I didn't bother burning a dvd I used Virtualbox.

---

### Post by NOTAGEEK on 2009-07-29
> **Jerry N said:**
> It has been several weeks since I downloaded Win 7 RC but it downloaded **MUCH** faster than 80mb/sec.  I used Nero in Windows XP to create the image disk and burned it at the fastest speed, probably 12X.  Installed and worked just fine.  Sounds to me like you got a bad download.

Jerry

THanks jerry---maybe i only got 80mb/s because of my wannabee so called high speed broadband isp ???  i have only 9.04 on my desktop but perhaps i should retry the download ??? ill have to think this one over !!!


> **kelvin spratt said:**
> Microsoft say in a nutshell burn the ISO to a DVD disc make sure your bios is set to boot from Cd/DVD. 
To burn your iso use a top brand DVD preferably something like Verbatim I burn Image file at X16 on them with no problems, to burn the ISO to Disk right click on the image and click on burn image thats it. Good luck


thanks kelvin... all i have to work with are maxell dvd+r new discs (coasters)...  

i only have a total of 3 months pc experience... most on an xp pro machine that crashed and burned...  i bought a new custom built quad core desktop without an os 3 or so weeks ago and have only had 9.04 since...  i have much to learn and most of this stuff doesn't make sense at all...

im getting to the point where i think my best option is to buy vista ult 64 bit and upgrade it to win 7 later... that way i will be able to play with 9.04/9.10 as my learning curve and know how increases to the point where it is not so foreign to me...

thanks...

---

### Post by NOTAGEEK on 2009-07-29
thanks to all for trying to help...

thread closed...

---

### Post by Kosimo on 2009-07-29
I've always prefer using a USB stick it saves me a CD, it boots faster and then I can easily delete it.

---

