---
title: "11.10 How to Add a User"
date: 2012-03-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mn_voyageur on 2012-03-21
After working with Ubuntu for several years, the new format is frustrating.

How am I to add users to 11.10?

MarkN

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-03-21
Info [available...]("http://www.google.com/#hl=en&output=search&sclient=psy-ab&q=how+to+add+user+in+ubuntu+11.10&oq=how+to+add+user+in+ubuntu+11.10&aq=f&aqi=g2&aql=&gs_sm=3&gs_upl=267l5305l0l5551l37l30l3l3l3l4l1298l11340l2-9.10.6.1.1.1l37l0&gs_l=hp.3..0l2.267l5305l0l5551l37l30l3l3l3l4l1298l11340l2-9j10j6j1j1j1l37l0.llsin.&pbx=1&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.r_qf.,cf.osb&fp=bc140e4e9a6150e6&biw=1149&bih=712&safe=strict")

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-03-21
```
useradd <name>
```

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-03-21
To do it the GUI way you go to System Settings under the power cog menu and click User Accounts.

You unlock the utility by clicking unlock and entering your password. You then click the plus ( + ) sign and fill in the details.

Regards.

---

### Post by mn_voyageur on 2012-03-21
Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2012-03-21
> **haqking said:**
> ```
useradd <name>
```
If you wanted a user that actually worked:
```
adduser <name>
```

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-03-22
> **jerome1232 said:**
> If you wanted a user that actually worked:
```
adduser <name>
```

They both work ;-) adduser is a script which calls useradd

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2012-03-22
> **haqking said:**
> They both work ;-) adduser is a script which calls useradd

Well no, adduser creates a real working user, with home directory, permissions set correctly, and a password. You can log into it right away. useradd, at least the way you posted it, would not.

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-03-22
> **jerome1232 said:**
> Well no, adduser creates a real working user, with home directory, permissions set correctly, and a password. You can log into it right away. useradd, at least the way you posted it, would not.

yeah you got a point.

to the OP adduser would be more complete

Cheers

---

