---
title: "7.10 LiveCD and Internet connections"
date: 2008-05-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Crossroads on 2008-05-06
I've just started looking at Ubuntu (v7.10). I am steering clear of 8.04 for the moment (taking one step at a time).

Exactly what risks, if any, am I exposed to if I boot from a 7.10 Live CD and connect to the Internet (going to known "safe" sites only - Hotmail. BBC, etc)?

And if I Mount my local hard disk (with all my Windows stuff and Documents on it) would those files be at risk?

I am asking as I understand that 7.10 comes with iptables configured to allow all incoming connections. 

TIA

---

### Post by bluefrog on 2008-05-06
as you certainly behind a router, you don't risk a lot. Even without a router, you wouldn't risk a lot either.
Now if you save rubish files on your windows drive and if those files contains malware (or whatever) the next time you reboot into windows, your windows will be at risk.(risk highly reduced if you do not work as admininstrator in windows but with a limited account and use run as to launch admin programs - oh... same as in Linux) but it would have had nothing to do with having or not a firewall.

---

### Post by Crossroads on 2008-05-07
Ok,

I'm using a 8MB modem rather than a router.

I can understand that saving dodgy files could be a problem so I would avoid that (or scan them for viruses) in Windows. 

How about incoming attacks from elsewhere? Windows is susceptible, but is this just an urban myth for Ubuntu systems?

And would any Mounted disks be vulnerable?

---

### Post by SupaSonic on 2008-05-07
I highly doubt that there is any kind of software/virii/malware/attack type that would target mounted Windows drives on Linux distros. So I think you are much safer than, say, on a clean XP install without service packs.

---

