---
title: "13.10 freeze caused by hibernation/suspend"
date: 2013-12-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wpbdry on 2013-12-21
[FONT=Ubuntu]Hi All,[/FONT]

 [FONT=Ubuntu]I recently installed Ubuntu 13.10 on my Dell Inspirion 15 laptop alongside the pre-installed Windows 8.1 64-bit and I have a problem with ubuntu frequently freezing (ie. screen goes static and if there is something playing the sound repeats one little bit over and over like a scratch on a CD and I cannot move the mouse or do anything with the keyboard). It stays in this state seemingly for ever and I am forced to hard shut down. It is not something to do with my hardware (eg. processor too slow, old computer etc etc.) because windows never freezes. Could it be to do with how I partitioned my hard drive for ubuntu (50 GB for **/**,45 GB for **/home**, and 5 GB swap space)?[/FONT]

[FONT=Ubuntu]There seem to be three main things that cause freezing although it has also just happened randomly. Putting the machine into hibernation or suspension causes it to freeze unless there are no open windows and then it hibernates/suspends successfully but freezes as soon as it resumes. Adjusting the screen brightness (using Fn + F4 / F5 or using the slider in “Brightness and Lock” settings) almost always causes it to freeze. Streaming movies online also causes freezing. I have never had it on youtube or short videos on facebook etc. but on movie streaming sites it always freezes after about 15 minutes of watching.[/FONT]

[FONT=Ubuntu]If anybody knows why it freezes and what I can do to stop this I would greatly appreciate your help![/FONT]

[FONT=Ubuntu]Thanks in advance![/FONT]

---

