---
title: "Screen turns to one solid color at random"
date: 2009-08-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Me887799 on 2009-08-31
My monitor likes to show one solid color at random.  I use a netbook with a monitor hooked up to it (along with normal desktop peripherals) and while doing things like listening to music (with amarok) talking on pidgin and/or using Firefox, my GUI completely turns off.  Unplugging the monitor does not restore video to the laptop's screen.  I am able to jump into lower power modes and still see text, and I've tried to restart GDM but it wouldn't fix the GUI problem.

The only way to fix this is to restart the computer (That I have found) and have been occuring ever since I updated my xorg server.

Along with that problem, my monitor likes to flash and tear for some reason.  My resolution is 1024x768@85Hz.

I have an Acer Apsire One 10.1 inch that has:
2GB RAM(upgraded from 1gb),
Integrated Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 950,
1.6GHz Intel Atom.



Here is my xorg.conf file
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-09-01
getting away from 7.10 and doing a fresh install of full version 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope should do the trick

you might want to use the LiveCD first just to check things out

we've got a little 8.9 inch screened aoa-150-1864 that is working wonderfully well with a brand new Samsung LN26B460 26 inch LCD HDTV

we've mentioned and included screenshots from this Aspire One in other threads(search aoa-150-1864)

.

---

### Post by Me887799 on 2009-09-01
> **LewRockwell said:**
> getting away from 7.10 and doing a fresh install of full version 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope should do the trick

you might want to use the LiveCD first just to check things out

we've got a little 8.9 inch screened aoa-150-1864 that is working wonderfully well with a brand new Samsung LN26B460 26 inch LCD HDTV

we've mentioned and included screenshots from this Aspire One in other threads(search aoa-150-1864)

.

I'm using 9.04 =X
Using cat /etc/issue output 
Ubuntu 9.04 \n \l
I just haven't updated my forums account, but good eye :)

Or did you mean just get rid of the netbook version of it?

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-09-01
as you may have already read by now, our original account was a response to an article referring to some strange behavior during a *nix distro installation on an Asus(similar/same internals)

our response also related some strange occurrences that we experienced as well

our little unit is a daily driver in it's present configuration with the 26 inch LCD HDTV as the primary display device(little screen to show System Monitor's load graphs...sweet!) and one USB port occupied, leading to a hub with a keyboard, mouse, external hard drive, and a printer/copier/scanner/fax/phone combo as well.

we have not been interested in the netbook remix package but may try it out someday when we come across another scrounger netbook

.

---

