---
title: "9.10 freezes randomly !"
date: 2010-01-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by revolvor on 2010-01-14
hey guys .

i have a problem with ubuntu 9.10 , it seems that every time i put my laptop in pressure ubuntu freeze , either im playing songs or watching videos or run than more application together , and i'v treid to update my system but it freezes even from the terminal usung the command [ sudo aptitude update ]

so i opened my [COLOR=SeaGreen]system monitor[/COLOR] to see where the problem is . i noticed when every time my [COLOR=DarkOrange]CPU1[/COLOR] or [COLOR=Red]CPU2[/COLOR] reaches over 90% the system _[COLOR=Red]freezes[/COLOR]_ completely 
oh and swap readings is like a dead guys pulse idont know if thats normal

i have the same problem with all the distributions ! I'v tried  xubuntu 9.10 , kubuntu 9.10 , and mint 8 . I dont know if the same problem will accure if i switched to fedora 12 

im curently on ubuntu 9.04 and im not having any problems .

note : 
im using an asus f81 laptop  
intel core 2 dou 
ATI radeon graphics 512MB 
4g ram 
CPU Dou P8700

so please if anyone knows whats the problem help me out :D

---

### Post by benny.kallstrom on 2010-01-14
If ubuntu 9.04 works, use it. I had some problems with the 9.10 release.

Hope it helps.

---

### Post by Marvin666 on 2010-01-14
To do everything, I need to have a dual boot of jaunty and karmic. Karmic has better hardware support, but jaunty has better stability and looks better. Karmic randomly locks up on me, and some applications refuse to start, or they crash.

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2010-01-14
Please run memtest86+ from the boot menu for a couple of passes. If you get no errors, run up Ubuntu, go to terminal and type
```
top
```
to see if a program/process is causing the problem.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-14
+1 Kevbert.

My first guess would be that you are running out of RAM. I have 4GB, and never get near using swap, so I would consider what you describe as not normal. Kevbert's suggestion is aimed at seeing if your RAM is working properly.

---

### Post by revolvor on 2010-01-14
thx guys i'll see it and report back .
but if the ram wasnt working properly whats the solution ?

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-14
first thing is take it out, have a look at the socket for damage, and plug it back in making sure it seats right. If it still tests bad, throw it away and get a new one.

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2010-01-15
If you get RAM errors it may be due to badly fitted RAM chips. When you refit these be careful not to touch the edge connector as they are static sensitive and can be easily damaged. Make sure you're touching the metal case when you remove and refit them.
If the computer is old and has a build up of dust, it may be worth removing this carefully with a vacuum cleaner as dust may become conductive over time (causing short circuits).

---

### Post by sudokodo on 2010-07-06
This problem seems to occur only when I use USB devices.
  Replace your mouse with a PS/2 type, keyboard too ...
  USB has some "sleep" modes that might be causing this USBiquitous problem....
  How did I know? I'm buildig a multimouse USB switchbox for my sudokodo class, and ran across a Microsoft "fix" for HIDs that involves editing the registry to stop mice etc. from being unable to wake up after sleeping...

sudokodo

---

