---
title: "11.04 Dashboard, can only open a program once?"
date: 2011-06-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Narchie on 2011-06-13
Hi,

Probably a silly question but how does one open a program more than once with unity?

Example 1. If I open Virtualbox from the icon on the unity dashboard, start a virtual machine then close the Virtualbox main window I can not open the main window to load another virtualbox without first shutting down the virtual machine. (when I click on the virtualbox window it brings the virtual machine to the front instead of opening the Virtualbox manager).

Example 2. If I open my home folder, start copying something from one drive to another and close the home folder again I can not open my home folder again till the copy is finished. (when I click on the home folder icon it brings the file operations window to the front instead of opening the home folder).

Another little irritation is when I use TSclient and minimise an open remote desktop connection then click on tsclient again It opens the tsclient window and I have to reconnect to get the remote window open again or ALT+TAB.

is there somewhere I can change this?
I did a search on google and here but can't find a solution.

edit: I have found that when I open applications then search for the program I can open it from there but this is a few extra steps I do not like to much.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2011-06-13
middle click the icon already running on the launcher

---

### Post by Narchie on 2011-06-13
Awesome!

Thanks :D

---

### Post by beew on 2011-06-13
What if I use a touch pad and can't middle click?

---

### Post by Narchie on 2011-06-13
Apparently it's both left and right touchpad buttons at the same time?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-06-13
> **beew said:**
> What if I use a touch pad and can't middle click?

From the application's File menu, you can open a new window, new document or whatever. Keyboard shortcut would be crtl-N or shift-ctrl-N for the terminal.

---

