---
title: "8.04 nvidia 9600GT install help please"
date: 2009-08-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by stinger30au on 2009-08-11
G'day,
i have searched high and low with google to find some instructions that might actually work

i have a 9600GT pci express video card and on this pc every thing works just fine using windows xp.

ubuntu 8.04 i have installed as a dual boot and everything in it runs fine

*EXCEPT* the video card. no restricted drivers installed

if i go system 
hardware
restricted drivers

its blank

i did find some instructions on how to install manually the drivers but when started up the pc again it ran in recovery mode and low resolution.

so i removed the drivers and restored my /X11/org.conf  file from backup and all is well again

this pc has done all the updates and the kernal is running at
2.6.24.-24 generic

does anyone have any *STEP BY STEP* instructions that *WORK*???

thanks

---

### Post by nhasian on 2009-08-11
hello,

go to System->Administration->Software sources, and make sure to tick the box Proprietary Drivers for devices (restricted)

also on the updates tab, tick the box for Unsupported Updates (backports)

then close and run an update.  see if you can enable the restricted drivers now.

---

### Post by oedha on 2009-08-11
can you go to applications - add/remove
type in nvidia
then take a look to those nvidia result to match your card.
installed the match one
you can go back to system - administration - hardware driver to check it out

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-08-11
8.04 might be a little bit too old to have drivers for the 9600 in Restricted Drivers. I know 8.10 has them, but you might as well just install the latest version of Ubuntu - 9.04.

With 9.04 installed you can just go to System > Administration > Hardware Drivers and it will be listed.

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2009-08-11
thanks for the feedback guys i will try these suggestions and see how i go.

if all else fails i will drop 9.04 on to it

---

### Post by The Cog on 2009-08-11
I agree with 3rdalbum (post #4). I have a 6600GT PCIe and I don't remember the last time I had to install the drivers any other way than with the Restricted Drivers thingy.

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2009-08-12
fixed it

backed up the data of the hdd , the important stuff like the evolution email and firefox

install 9.04 cd

delete the 8.04 partition as it was dual boot

install 9.04 and test ok

runs just fine

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-08-12
I'm glad this solved your problem - I knew it would as I've just installed 9.04 on a machine with a 9600 :-)  

I discovered at the same time that if you install 9.04 onto a partition that has an earlier Ubuntu, and you DON'T format the partition, it preserves the contents of /home. It doesn't beat backing up, but it will save you a bit of time the next time you do a fresh install :-)

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2009-08-12
> **3rdalbum said:**
> I'm glad this solved your problem - I knew it would as I've just installed 9.04 on a machine with a 9600 :-)  

I discovered at the same time that if you install 9.04 onto a partition that has an earlier Ubuntu, and you DON'T format the partition, it preserves the contents of /home. It doesn't beat backing up, but it will save you a bit of time the next time you do a fresh install :-)

i was lead to believe this is not a good idea some time ago.
apparently the new version of ubuntu files get mixxed up with the old ones and it goes bonkers

apparently

no biggie

i booted of the hdd and made backup of firefox and evolution

then boot of cd of 9.04 and run gparted

deleted the linux partitions and left windows there with the 30 gig of free space and then reinstall with 9.04 to biggest free space for dual boot and its off and running.

sure beats some of the other info i read on how to make 8.04 run with the 9600 gt.i even tried a few things myself by reading other examples and and it still no go.

anyhow

9.04 to the rescue

---

