---
title: "12.04 LTS 64bit - broken lines in dpkg and in openjdk-6-jre-headless"
date: 2017-03-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by TAZIO39 on 2017-03-12
Hi,New to Ubuntu Forums so please excuse any flaws in protocol. I have recently been unable to update my system or to install any new software because I get serious looking error messages that just won't let me do anything. Existing system still working.

On trying to load new software:

I get an error message as follows:

   installArchives() failed: Error in function:  
 SystemError: E:Internal Error, No file name for openjdk-6-jre-headless
 Error in function:  
 SystemError: E:Internal Error, No file name for openjdk-6-jre-headless
 dpkg: error: parsing file '/var/lib/dpkg/status' near line 45711 package 'gwibber':
  error in Version string '3.4.2- Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>': version string has embedded spaces
 Error in function:  
 SystemError: E:Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (2)

I have tried a number of the standard fixes ( e.g. sudo apt-get --fix-broken install)

but the best I can do is get a rather shorter message as in:

 [FONT=Droid Sans]dpkg: error: parsing file '/var/lib/dpkg/status' near line 45711 package 'gwibber':[/FONT]
   [FONT=Droid Sans]error in Version string '3.4.2- Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>': version string has embedded spaces[/FONT]
  [FONT=Droid Sans]E: Internal Error, No file name for openjdk-6-jre-headless[/FONT]

  [FONT=Droid Sans]E: Internal Error, No file name for openjdk-6-jre-headless[/FONT]
  [FONT=Droid Sans]E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (2)[/FONT]
  [FONT=Droid Sans]trevor@trevor-M3N-WS:~$ [/FONT] 

Would be most grateful for any help - especially if worded so as not to assume any deep knowledge of the inner workings of Ubuntu.
Many thanks

Tazio

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-03-12
**Support for 12.04 ends in a month.**  Whatever the issue isn't worth dealing with on that release. Move to 14.04 or 16.04 and see if that helps.

Google for "ubuntu releases" to find which releases are supported for how long. Be certain to read the entire page - lots of stuff at the bottom is highly, highly, important, not just the stuff at the top.

---

### Post by TAZIO39 on 2017-03-13
Thanks Fu, I had sort of expected that changing OS might be the answer, but one lives in hope. Tazio

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-03-13
Definitely change the OS. Want to be clear about that.

Changing the OS is NOT the answer, but it is the answer since around July to any odd issues like this.  The gwibber app in 12.04 isn't going to be fixed it if there is an issue. At this point it just isn't worth looking into any issues with 12.04 systems. All effort should be put on migrating to a different, supported, LTS release.  Just be certain that you constantly patch - at least monthly, if not more often, on the new system.

When you see a problem, posting the program that was run with the output using "*code tags*" is the most helpful. Output without knowing exactly what caused it is difficult to figure out.

If you run, 
**sudo apt  update && sudo apt upgrade**
does it work? That would be my first troubleshooting question, it this were a 16.04 system and fixing it was the only option. I don't think apt is supported on 12.04.

---

### Post by TAZIO39 on 2017-03-16
Thanks again Fu. I am sorting out my files just to check I can't lose anything before I load new version. Meantime I will try the line that you proposed.
Tazio

---

