---
title: "10.04 Updating my hardware?"
date: 2011-05-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by shin333 on 2011-05-21
I have a suspect feeling my drivers aren't up to date on Ubuntu. My mouse and my wireless which work perfectly on windows Vista (I dual boot) are suspect at best on Ubuntu. I think I need to update my drivers for all my hardware but I can't seem to find how to do it. I know that under administration there is an option for hardware drivers but that only seems to install a driver for my graphics card. Was wondering if anyone could clarify the problem.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-21
> **shin333 said:**
>  Was wondering if anyone could clarify the problem.
We were hoping you would.:P

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-05-21
If you have the current recommended  driver installed from hardware & drivers or additional drivers , I would stay with it if you are not seeing any performance problems.

The other options are to download and install the latest driver manually if you are using an ATI or Nvidia card. Make sure you get good instructions. The easiest way may be the ppa , It provides bleeding edge drivers for ATI and Nvidia.  [https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates)

---

### Post by shin333 on 2011-05-21
lol.. let me try again. How do I update all my hardware on Ubuntu?

---

### Post by philinux on 2011-05-21
> **shin333 said:**
> lol.. let me try again. How do I update all my hardware on Ubuntu?

If you mean drivers for wireless sound cards etc they are all contained in the kernel. If your system is up to date thats it.
The graphics card may need a proprietary driver as you know under additional drivers. Any system updates would update that too.

Is your system up to date? i.e update manager pops up now and then and you install all updates.

Unless you mean installing new hardware.

It would help when posting to include system specs and ubuntu version you're running. 

Please see link in my signature.

---

