---
title: "12.04 - cannot search applications in Unity Dash any more?"
date: 2012-09-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by abexman on 2012-09-12
This was working OK previously but now no applications appear when running a search in the Dash or even show when first opened, it just shows recent files and downloads. If I type 'terminal' for example, it says "sorry, there is nothing that matches that search". I had installed some printer drives and stuff for KDE/plasma yesterday, could that be the problem?

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-09-12
Prefix changed from lubuntu to ubuntu

---

### Post by Ubunterrific on 2012-09-12
> **abexman said:**
> This was working OK previously but now no applications appear when running a search in the Dash or even show when first opened, it just shows recent files and downloads. If I type 'terminal' for example, it says "sorry, there is nothing that matches that search". I had installed some printer drives and stuff for KDE/plasma yesterday, could that be the problem?


Could it be zeitgeist related? It shows recent files and downloads BUT not applications?

---

### Post by abexman on 2012-09-12
Rebooted and fixed! I thought that kind of solution was Windows-thinking, but I guess not!

---

### Post by Rafacky on 2012-09-12
Hello everyone! My first post here. First cup of Ubuntu. ;)
> **abexman said:**
> This was working OK previously but now no applications appear when running a search in the Dash or even show when first opened, it just shows recent files and downloads. If I type 'terminal' for example, it says "sorry, there is nothing that matches that search". I had installed some printer drives and stuff for KDE/plasma yesterday, could that be the problem?What do you mean by "previously"? Have you installed anything else, upgraded Ubuntu, or was it only the stuff you mention?

EDIT: Oops, looks like I was too slow. ;)

---

### Post by offgridguy on 2012-09-12
> **abexman said:**
> Rebooted and fixed! I thought that kind of solution was Windows-thinking, but I guess not!

Glad this has worked out for you, if the issue has been resolved, then mark this thread as
solved. Whatta you know, it rhymes.  Happy ubunting.

---

### Post by abexman on 2012-09-13
Well it re-occurred as I was troubleshooting something else. Reboot fixed again. Hopefully this will  not continue to occur.

BTW - are you really offgrid? Excellent!

---

### Post by thommacintyre on 2012-09-15
I am in the same boat. At first the re-boot "fixed" it, now no dice. It REALLY stinks because programs not on the launcher are a pain, can't get to terminal. I have been looking for a fix.

---

### Post by abexman on 2012-10-10
This looks like the same issue: askaubuntu.com/questions/170764/ubuntu-dash-not-showing-software-results-and-software-center-freezing-not-brin

Still happening randomly for me. Don't forget you can do control+alt+T to get terminal

---

### Post by NM5TF on 2012-11-01
have you tried this???

open a terminal session using CTRL+ALT+T
then type the following....

```
unity --reset
```

---

