---
title: "11.10 Start Problem"
date: 2011-10-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bigal1932flying on 2011-10-20
After upgrading to 11.10 when I try to start I receive the following Text:
"ata_id[307]HD_GET_IDENTITY failed for "/dev/sdf' : Invalid argument" The number in brackets seems to change with each boot.
Then Ubuntu slowly boots and everything appears to be OK.
Can anyone help Please?

---

### Post by bigal1932flying on 2011-11-02
I have installed a new Nvidia Graphics Card. Now I still receive the same message but instead of booting into Ubuntu I just receive a Login Screen.
Can anyone tell me what I should do after typing in my User name and Password?

---

### Post by Immolatus on 2011-11-02
need hardware info. how new is the GPU that you just installed. And yes "sdf" is really odd unless you have 5 HDD's installed. First would be sda(followed by partition number). The fact that GRUB is looking for sdf first might indicate that the initrd was for some reason written to the fifth HDD if such a drive exists.

---

### Post by bigal1932flying on 2011-11-02
My computer is a Dell INSPIRON 580. The Graphics Card I have installed is a Asus GT450 1GB DDR3. I only have one Hard Drive.
Thanks.

---

### Post by bigal1932flying on 2011-11-05
Thought this problem may be related to nvidia drivers problem so put hard drive in my old computer and Ubuntu started OK so downloaded and activated latest driver. However Ubuntu still would not boot in new computer.
I have noticed that before login comes up there is a message which says: "Starting LightDM Display Manager  [Fail]"
When I type the command "sudo apt-get install lightdm" it says LightDM is the latest version.
Don't know if this is of any help but will be grateful for any assistance.

---

### Post by Immolatus on 2011-11-08
sounds like xorg is either crashing or not starting because of the new desktop. I hated it so much I switched back to Kubuntu. You might try the same. KDE4 is pretty good. Otherwise you need to do:

sudo apt-get install gnome-fallback-session

It wont be pretty but it will work.

---

### Post by bigal1932flying on 2011-11-08
Tried this command line and received back "Unable to locate package gnome-fallback-session"
I once again tried installing Hard Drive in my old computer and Ubuntu seemed to work OK.
I checked my Hard Drive and it said "Disk is healthy" also said Device: /dev/sda. My 80gig hd showed Volumes as 78GB ext3, Extended 1.5 GB and 1.5 GB Swap.
Because I have been interested in experimenting with Ubuntu when it is working and  I go to login I have the following choices:
Gnome
Gnome Classic
Gnome Classic (No effects)
KDE Plasma Workspace
Recovery Console
Ubuntu
Ubuntu 2D
User Defined Session
Hope some of this may be of help.Any other ideas? Thanks.

---

### Post by Immolatus on 2011-11-09
I would go with any of the Gnome or KDE. the "Ubuntu" and "Ubuntu2D" choices are unity desktop which might be your issue so stay away from them.

---

### Post by bigal1932flying on 2011-11-09
I would like to be able to go with Gnome or KDE but my problem is that my Ubuntu does not boot in my new computer. I just receive the message: "ata_id[307]:HD_GET_IDENTITY failed for '/dev/sdf':Invalid argument" and the a command line login. This has only happened after upgrading to 11.10 and installing the new Graphics Card. As I have said if I install the Hard Drive in my old computer it appears to work OK.
Surely there must be a way around this. Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Immolatus on 2011-11-10
Oh, sorry I think I misunderstood a bit there. Can you find this drive while running a live cd? I can't imagine that any Linux distro wouldn't support older HDD interfaces....What are the make ,size and rpm speed of the drive? I'll look into it a little farther(sounds interesting).

---

### Post by bigal1932flying on 2011-11-10
The Drive that I have Ubuntu installed on is a: Seagate Barracuda 7200.10 80 Gbytes ULTRA ATA. Can't see any mention of speed on it.
I probably should have mentioned that because it is an IDE Drive I have been connecting it to my new computer via a USB2.0 to IDE Cable. This has always worked OK up until the time that I upgraded to 11.10 and changed my Graphics Card.
Thanks.

---

### Post by bigal1932flying on 2011-11-12
Just for the heck of it I have again fired up my old computer. I was somewhat surprised to find that the message " ata_id[291]:HD_GET_IDENTITY failed for'/dev/sdf':Invalid argument" did not appear I just had a normal startup into Ubuntu. Don"t know if this will be of any help, but it is interesting.

---

