---
title: "Bluetooth Headset Volume Too High"
date: 2008-05-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by fdepinto on 2008-05-23
I need to know how to adjust the volume in my bluetooth headset.  There doesn't seem to be any way to do that within the application (Skype) that I'm using.

Should I be adjusting levels through some settings in Ubuntu?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by sayakb on 2008-05-23
Changing the slider in the alsamixer should change the volume. If you don't have a volume applet, open a terminal and type:
```
alsamixer
```

---

### Post by fdepinto on 2008-05-23
> **LinuxIsInnovation said:**
> Changing the slider in the alsamixer should change the volume. If you don't have a volume applet, open a terminal and type:
```
alsamixer
```

Well, I couldn't find any application titled alsamixer, so I just typed alsamixer into the terminal as you said.  But, wouldn't adjusting those levels just change the levels coming from the sound card?  Wouldn't the bluetooth headset audio be coming from a radio signal generated by the bluetooth USB adapter?  Forgive me.  I'm the greenest of green newbies here.

---

### Post by fdepinto on 2008-05-23
> **fdepinto said:**
> Well, I couldn't find any application titled alsamixer, so I just typed alsamixer into the terminal as you said.  But, wouldn't adjusting those levels just change the levels coming from the sound card?  Wouldn't the bluetooth headset audio be coming from a radio signal generated by the bluetooth USB adapter?  Forgive me.  I'm the greenest of green newbies here.

I also downloaded the GNOME Alsamixer program.  Pretty cryptic.  And, nothing that says bluetooth headset there.  Any other suggestions?  Help.

---

