---
title: "9.10 to 10"
date: 2010-04-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Earl-Grey on 2010-04-07
Hello,

I'm thinking about moving from 9.10 to 10 but worried that I would loose my existing settings. If it doesn't effect my settings I would like to upgrade.

Is there a way to upgrade through Ubuntu or do I need to download the iso and burn a disk?

---

### Post by tica vun on 2010-04-07
There is a way to upgrade, but the 10.04 is still a testing distribution, and using it may lose your settings and/or data. Until it's officially released on 29.4., "absolute beginners" would be advised to stay on 9.10.

---

### Post by lisati on 2010-04-07
When 10.04 is officially released in a few weeks time, you should be able to update it using update-manager, without having to download ISO images.

Edit: As the previous poster suggested, it might be a good idea to stick with what you have for now.

---

### Post by Mykk on 2010-04-07
> **Earl-Grey said:**
> Hello,

I'm thinking about moving from 9.10 to 10 but worried that I would loose my existing settings. If it doesn't effect my settings I would like to upgrade.

Is there a way to upgrade through Ubuntu or do I need to download the iso and burn a disk?

Seems to be a popular topic now. I would do a clean install if you want to upgrade. However you can do an upgrade within ubuntu by running in the terminal:

sudo update-manager -d             (or something like that anyway)

I would _NOT_ recommend doing it this way unless you are ready to crunch a few minor problems that are usually inevitable. If you know what you are doing and like a bit of a challenge then go for it, if not stick with a clean install :)

---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2010-04-07
The official release for Ubuntu 10.04 LTS will be out by the end of this month, so you have to wait till then. Its no use updating or downloading the livecd at this moment.

---

### Post by Earl-Grey on 2010-04-07
wow, thanks for the really fast replies. I think I will stick with 9.10 for now and wait until I can upgrade through the update manager. :KS

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-04-07
Should be:

```
update-manager -d
```

or 

```
gksudo "update-manager -d"
```

It will leave your personal data and application selection untouched (well, it'll upgrade your programs), but the greater the variation of Ubuntu from its default configuration, the more likely that your upgrade will break. And people these days use extremely customised Ubuntus.

And especially during the development cycle I'd recommend doing a clean install rather than a dist-upgrade.

---

