---
title: ".pdf reader that can fill and save forms (e.g.  U.S.A. Tax Forms)"
date: 2010-02-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ApprenticeWizard on 2010-02-13
Greetings,

Is there a program that can display, fill out, and save filled out changes to .pdf's with fillable forms (e.g. the USA Federal Tax .pdf's).  I know in Windows either Foxit Reader or Adobe Acrobat Reader had this capability.

Thank you.

---

### Post by SoFl W on 2010-02-13
After filling out the form print to a PDF file to save it.  You can't edit it but this is how I save tax forms.

---

### Post by jken146 on 2010-02-13
You can use acroread to do this (just about the only advantage that mess of a PDF reader has).

First, you'll need to enable the Canonical Partner repository: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories/Ubuntu#Adding%20Canonical%20Partner%20Repositories](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories/Ubuntu#Adding%20Canonical%20Partner%20Repositories)

Then install **acroread**

---

### Post by hollowtd on 2010-02-13
If you got a mac, I use formulatepro which is awesome for typing and even signing pdf documents.

---

### Post by jken146 on 2010-02-13
> **hollowtd said:**
> If you got a mac ...
[Points at the word before 'forums' in the top left of the page...]

---

### Post by ApprenticeWizard on 2010-02-13
Thank you for the information.

Reporting back: success using Acroread

I did not want to have to fill-and-print, as that lost the ability to change the filled form later (at least, without re-entering all the rest of the information).

I enabled Medibuntu using information found here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu)

Then checked repositories under System --> Administration --> Software Sources and enabled all of them.

Using Ubuntu Software Center, I searched for Acroread and enabled and installed Reader.


Reader started up, was ablo to open a pdf (the 2009 IRS f1040 form), fill out fields, and successfully save the changes.


(Note, was done on a more-or-less fresh, default install of Ubuntu 9.10, Karmic Koala)

---

### Post by StrobeWylan on 2012-02-23
FYI:
I just downloaded and installed Adobe Reader 9 via Ubuntu Software Center and so far it works good and saved my fill-ins. Read some of the TOS and it mentioned that it will send info to advertisers. Not sure if that is good or bad but I've been using flash player for a long time and don't know about any downside to that.

---

