---
title: "10.10 UNR or 11.04"
date: 2011-07-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tuxisapenguin on 2011-07-21
Hi all!

I have a Samsung n145-JP02 with a 250 gig HD and 1 gig of RAM, and want to install Ubuntu onto it. I am debating between Ubuntu 10.10 Netbook Remix and 11.04. I was wondering if any of you guys have Ubuntu 11.04 running on a netbook with 1 gig of RAM and how well it runs, and if I should install that or 10.10 UNR.

Thanks!

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-07-21
Neither: 10.10 (normal release) or 11.04 x/lubuntu.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-07-21
I recommend trying a Live CD/Live USB of each to decide for yourself which will serve your needs.

Personally I would choose 11.04 over 10.10 because all the applications are 6 months newer and there is an extra 6 months of support (through Oct. 2012 instead of April 2012).

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-07-21
> **snowpine said:**
> I recommend trying a Live CD/Live USB of each to decide for yourself which will serve your needs.

Personally I would choose 11.04 over 10.10 because all the applications are 6 months newer and there is an extra 6 months of support (through Oct. 2012 instead of April 2012).
Whereas I would recommend 10.04 standard desktop edition on a netbook, but configure the desktop with a single panel, the gnome main menu instead of menubar, and make sure you stop as many startup services as possible, eg bluetooth if you don't use it.

10.04 on the desktop is supported until April 2013, and I think is one of the best ubuntu versions there has ever been.  There are also lots of ppa repos to get the newer applications, such as libreoffice, firefox5, etc etc.

I still camn not see the big advantage of unity, but perhaps that is just my take on things.

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2011-07-21
I'm still running 10.04 on my netbook, but I have downloaded and tried each new version as it was released.  I have also downloaded and tried Xubuntu and Lubuntu.  That's what you need to do if you are looking around for a 'buntu that agrees with your hardware, has the aesthetic qualities that you want, as well as the ability to do what you want it to do.  Keep trying until you find one that you like.  Then continue looking because they are changing all of the time and CDs are really cheap.

---

### Post by tuxisapenguin on 2011-07-30
Thanks everyone for the advice! I ended up installing 10.10 UNR, but I upgraded to 11.04 after using it on liveUSB.

---

