---
title: "17.10 System Policy Prevents Changes"
date: 2017-12-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jai-2 on 2017-12-28
I very new to Ubuntu!!
I'm running Ubuntu 17.10 on my VPS and I have 2 questions relating to the small lock icons -

1/ I can not unlock the icon to make changes to my settings. The lock is grayed out and when I hover over it I see - "System Policy Prevents Changes. Contact your system administrator".
What do I need to change to fix this problem? I am the system administrator (sounds good but I know nothing) so I have do have access.

2/ What does the black lock icon in the top right corner drop down menu (between the settings and the shut down icons) actually do?

Thank you.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2017-12-28
> 1/ I can not unlock the icon to make changes to my settings. The lock is grayed out and when I hover over it I see - "System Policy Prevents Changes. Contact your system administrator".
What do I need to change to fix this problem? I am the system administrator (sounds good but I know nothing) so I have do have access.
Which settings?
> 2/ What does the black lock icon in the top right corner drop down menu (between the settings and the shut down icons) actually do?

Locks the Screen

Perhaps what you want to do relates to the VPS and any restrictions that imposes.
What those restrictions might be is something I don't know anything about, though.
(if those restrictions even exist, that is)

---

### Post by jai-2 on 2017-12-28
Thanks for your help.
Any settings that require the little lock to be unlocked before changing. One simple example is the clock settings, I can't change anything.
I will look into the VPS settings.
Thanks

---

### Post by jai-2 on 2017-12-29
I have no idea why but my problem (The lock is grayed out and when I hover over it I see - "System Policy Prevents Changes. Contact your system administrator") seems to be related to themes. If I install the ubuntu desktop the lock works but any other kind of desktop like gnome it doesn't. Starange, any ideas?

---

### Post by jai-2 on 2017-12-30
I re-posted Question 1/ only with more details in the Server forum - [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2381380](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2381380)
Thanks for your time.

---

