---
title: "9.04 Nvidia Driver question, can't get through propitary drivers option"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by 133794m3r on 2009-04-24
ok in ubuntu 9.04 i can't seem to get my driver by just finding the propitary drivers. I need my nvidia driver on here b/c my laptop's display is very weird it's a 1366x768. To get my native display i need my driver. So can anyone help me with this. Also one of my friends tried to do it like how Nvidia said on their site and ended up having to reformat b/c X server broke.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-04-24
go to synaptic

look for nvidia 180

it should be there

install from there

---

### Post by 133794m3r on 2009-04-24
ok that'll help me with the Nvidia issues so is this how Ubuntu is with nvidia it just kinda says no propitary drivers anymore?

Edit:So i should get the X server driver corret?

---

### Post by crjackson on 2009-04-24
> **133794m3r said:**
> ok that'll help me with the Nvidia issues so is this how Ubuntu is with nvidia it just kinda says no propitary drivers anymore?

No, it works fine on all my machines so far. What card are you trying to support?

---

### Post by 133794m3r on 2009-04-24
well i'm just saying Ubuntu doesn't give me the propitary driver settings for some reason :/ i don't understand that part of it. i got it working now.

Edit:Also i believe this is about the same thing as far as the thread goes. I'd like to install Beryl to use instead of compiz. What's the easiest way to to do this?

---

### Post by CRIMPS on 2009-04-24
Compiz and Beryl projects have merged, I believe.  Do I have that right?

---

### Post by 133794m3r on 2009-04-24
well they said they kinda did :/ but i was talking about getting the nice cube desktop thing.

---

### Post by crjackson on 2009-04-24
> **CRIMPS said:**
> Compiz and Beryl projects have merged, I believe.  Do I have that right?
That is correct.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-04-24
> **133794m3r said:**
> well they said they kinda did :/ but i was talking about getting the nice cube desktop thing.
both have the desktop cube :)

---

### Post by 133794m3r on 2009-04-25
well i can't seem to find the option for it then.

---

### Post by sag on 2009-04-26
I've just done a fresh install of 9.04 on my laptop, and the way I did it was:
1 - Install nvidia drivers with Synaptic
2 - Reboot
3 - Enable drivers (System, Administration, Hardware Drivers)
4 - Reboot again
5 - Enable Visual Effects (System, Preferences, Appearance)
6 - Install compizconfig-settings-manager
This puts a link to the settings manager in System, Preferences.
There may be an easier way, but it worked for me.
Sag

---

### Post by Refefer on 2009-04-26
You need to install the compizconfig-settings-manager.  That'll let you enable/disable the large number of plugins that it has.  You can find it in synaptic.

---

