---
title: "32 or 64 bit"
date: 2009-12-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tekno62 on 2009-12-12
I have a athlon 64 X2 4800+ Rev G1. should I use the 32bit or the 64 bit 9.10 - I want to run Myth on it and was trying the myth 64 bit but am have problems. so think I'll just get Ubuntu working first.


Thanks

---

### Post by jbrown96 on 2009-12-12
64-bit. I don't mean to be trite, but please try searching before posting questions like this.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-12-12
Oft repeated question.

I will give you my honest opinion.

The industry is moving towards 64 bit.  I you are old enough to remember the move from 8 to 16 bit architecture (I remember much further back than that...), you will remember how everyone who thought 16 bit was a fad was left in the cold.

If your machine architecture supports a 64 bit OS (as yours does), then install the 64 bit OS.  Many of the 64 bit horror stories about software support are well behind us.  Upcoming software will be written against a 64 bit architecture.  Old 32 bit software will be refactored and ported.

If you intend to use more than 4GB of memory (well, 3.27 actually), you can only do so with a 64 bit OS, unless you have PAE enabled.  While PAE (physical address extension) can get you past the 4GB barrier, it comes at a performance hit.

One of the things you will likely hear in this thread is the "problem" with 64 bit Flash.  It hasn't been a problem for me.

Do you absolutely need a 64 bit OS right now?  No.  Unless you are doing some serious number crunching or need serious graphics acceleration.

But unless you want to repeat 8 -> 16 and 16 -> 32, I'd suggest 64 right now.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-12-12
The "64" in "Athlon 64" refers to what you're talking about. Go 64-bit.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-12-12
Thread closed , I think your question has been asked and answered. 64 bit Ubuntu is no more problematic then 32 bit Ubuntu.

---

