---
title: "11.04 Top Menu Gone Even after Unity --Reset"
date: 2011-06-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Randy Flagg on 2011-06-27
Well the subject pretty much says it.  I had a bunch of problems with Compiz and Unity so i attempted to reset everything by uninstalling and reinstall Unity.  That seemed to work but the only issue is that the top left menu is completely gone.  It never comes up.  The menu works for a particular window when I have it open but when I all windows closed I can't bring up that window.

I recently ran unity --reset and let it go for about 5 minutes.  It would hung up on an error so I rebooted but I am still having the same problem.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by josephmills on 2011-06-27
dont know if this will help but press ctrl+alt+f2 thei will drop you out of the gui. sign in and then do a sudo unity --reset then a sudo reboot from there anything?

---

### Post by Randy Flagg on 2011-06-27
That is what I meant by I already did Unity --Reset.  No worky.

---

### Post by josephmills on 2011-06-27
what kind of computer is this? model and make. thanks

---

### Post by Randy Flagg on 2011-06-27
Dell Optiplex 990 ATI Graphics with and I5 CPU.

I don't know if it matters but I have problems shutting down too.  I can do a sudo halt and it works every time by the shutdown link and shutdown from the command lock up.

---

### Post by Randy Flagg on 2011-06-28
Not sure if it matters but after some research I believe the correct term for the menu missing is the top panel.

---

