---
title: "8.04 to 9.10 to 10.04 reinstallation"
date: 2011-03-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-03-04
Hi Folks.

I have directed this query to this forum because I am sure that it is too fundamental for the other, more specialised, forums.

I set out to update 8.04 to 10.04 to keep my LTS status. I had a LiveCD for 10.04 but it simply would not work.It did not offer a trial of the system but repeatedly asked for a log-in name and password which, because it had not been given one, could not be inserted. There was some discussion last year over others suffering the same problem so it was not just my disk. Time passed which was used (eventually) to get my /home on its own partition. I achieved this with some difficulty but formatted sda3 as ext3 before transferring the data. I also labelled it /home. All the data is intact but the partition reveals itself as a separate drive, probably due to the formatting. I want to be quite sure that I go about changing the identity of the partition properly.

I have still failed to get the 10.04 LiveCD to change its mind and have now ordered a new one. In the mean time, because I had a 9.10 Live CD, I tried it in test mode and it worked perfectly. Finding that the Update Manager in that OS offered an upgrade to 10.04.2 I thought that my troubles were over so I installed 9.10. and then 10.04 upgrade This took a very long time but got to the end without any objection. BUT when I tried to log-in and insert my password (inherited from 9.10) it seemed quite satisfied, disk activity ensued but suddenly returned me to the Log-in panel! Eventually I discovered the Failsafe Gnome option (I was familiar with Windows Safe mode) and it allowed me to use 10.04 apparently quite normally. In use I found that my password worked OK to put me into administrative mode and, because I used my Log-in name it seemed to indicated that they were in the program somewhere. I have not seen any presentation of Failsafe anywhere, does anyone know where to look? Nor has anyone come up with any resolution of the problem. One correspondent thought that it was obviously a video driver problem but I have not had any difficulty with 8.04 or 9.10 and I do not think that 10.04 would be more fussy.

I have been advised that the best way to go is to try a clean 10.04.2 install which I will do when my new disk arrives (and it works). What I need is clear information as to how I set about dealing with the sda3 partition. I remember the drop down menu to enable me to format it and entitle it, I am not sure that this the right one to use for what I want to do. It needs to tell sda1 that it is the /home directory (in my faulty update, sda1 had another /home directory!). It might be obvious when I come to do it but it certainly was not when I did it last time and I do not want it to fall over again.

Sorry that this has been so long but I felt that some details might affect the advice I hope that I will be getting pronto! 

Regards to you all.

 C.   ???

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-03-04
I must say I'm a bit confused about the problems you are getting. However, I agree with the advice you received to do a fresh install of 10.04.

**Step 1:**

[LIST=1]
[*]Make a backup of _**all**_ your data. I suggest that you back up your entire /home partition, including all hidden directories (those starting with ".").
[*]Check that you really have made a viable backup of all your data.
[*]*Optional:* Make a full backup of your hard disk using [Clonezilla]("http://www.clonezilla.org/"). If you make a complete hash, you can reinstall your entire disk with this backup.
[/LIST]

Now do *either* Step 2a *or* Step 2b. Step 2a is the cleanest, but Step 2b entails less work.

**Step 2a:**

[LIST=1]
[*]Install 10.04, completely overwriting your hard drive. (Did you make a backup first?) Use the default formatting, which is ext4. Use a separate partition for your /home partition. (If you have a dual boot machine, be sure to overwrite only the Ubuntu part and not Windows, Mac or whatever else you have.)
[*]Boot into 10.04 and make sure it works.
[*]As needed, copy your data from the backup of your /home directory to your hard drive.
[*]Also, as needed, install programs that you need to reinstall.
[/LIST]

**Step 2b:**

[LIST=1]
[*]Install 10.04, completely overwriting your current Ubuntu root partition, and selecting your current /home partition as your home partition -- but do not format the /home partition.
[*]Boot into 10.04 and make sure it works.
[*]As needed, install programs that you need to reinstall.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-03-04
That all lookss quite like  usefull. My advice has been 2b so far but with the existing sda3 in place but with the formatting to xt3 removed. It is not clear how I set about this nor how sda1 gets told that sda3 is the location for /home. I am hampered at the moment because my use of 10.04.2 using Failsafe Gnome seems to have crashed and I cannot now do anything with the system. I do have a backup on a USB thumb drive of /home  (ex 8.04) to fall back oStrapped for time now, must leave.  PS using old XP machine to send this.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-03-04
> **colintivy said:**
> My advice has been 2b so far but with the existing sda3 in place but with the formatting to xt3 removed.
What you mean "the formatting to ext3 removed"? If you have already formatted as ext3, Ubuntu 10.04 will happily cope with it. ext4 is better, but you can still use ext3. There is a way to "upgrade" an ext3 to ext4, but I don't know how.

> **colintivy said:**
> It is not clear how I set about this nor how sda1 gets told that sda3 is the location for /home.
When you install 10.04, it will ask you how to partition your disk. Choose the manual method. Mark your existing Ubuntu root for "/" and format it to ext4; mark your existing home partition as "/home" and do **not** format it.

If you really want to format sda3 as ext4, then make a full backup of your /home partition (including all hidden directories); format /home when you install 10.04; then restore your entire /home directory and reboot.

It's not a big deal provided you have a full and viable backup.

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-03-05
Got time to come back to you! Found the problem with laptop, something has screwed up Firefox but on rebooting today it told me the cause of the indigestion and what to do to get rid of it. Now that I cam access everything, although I have back-ups on 16GB USB thumb drives compressed by Simple Back-up, the most recent being late October last(sorry now), I have the  real /home coming up as a drive (because of the dreaded ext3 format?) with all the data present and correct. There must be a way to save the contents to a thum drive as an up-to-date  back-up? I have not found a menu with the option for it. Copy & Paste does not look very promising. Would Nautilus let me do it in some way? It would be very valuable if it is possible, the size is not a problem so compression could be avoided.

My new 10.04.2 disk has not arrived yet. Other queries are bound to arise I guess!

Regards,

C.   :D

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-03-05
> **colintivy said:**
> I have the  real /home coming up as a drive
Where do you see it coming up as a drive? In Linux, all drives are accessed as directories.

> **colintivy said:**
> because of the dreaded ext3 format?
ext3 is not a problem. ext4 is faster, but ext3 is still perfectly usable.

> **colintivy said:**
> There must be a way to save the contents to a thum drive as an up-to-date  back-up?
Yes. In Nautilus, navigate to /home. You should see your directory there. Copy the entire directory to the thumb drive -- that will copy everything including the hidden directories. After you have copied, navigate to your thumb drive to check that your directory is there and that it contains a number of folders, both hidden and not hidden.

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-03-06
Hi Paddy!

You are are really on the ball! I get breathless keeping-up.

I can easily get to /home, it comes up as a separate drive because it is formatted to ext3, it is listed in places>computer>/home. All the stuff is there plus the obligatory Lost & Found folder (which is empty). All the aggro that I have got seems to stem from my formatting sda3 the ext3 in the first place. But I do not think that it can be reversed. You will remember that when I get to redoing the sda3 I must NOT format it.

I had an exploratory look at Nautilus yesterday but found a snag in not being able to "share". This may be because I "sudo nautilus" without anything after it. Should I put the full:- /dev/sda3//home there to get it? I have not played with this feature much, should read up more about it I suppose!

I was a bit loath to jump the hoops with Simple Back-up and System Restore to get a new back-up. It seemed to be more straightforward to save the data uncompressed and pop it back into sda3 at an appropriate time. Agree?

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-03-06
> **colintivy said:**
> You are are really on the ball!
Not really. I confess I'm a tad confused by some of what you say, sorry.

> **colintivy said:**
> I can easily get to /home, it comes up as a separate drive because it is formatted to ext3, it is listed in places>computer>/home. ... All the aggro that I have got seems to stem from my formatting sda3 the ext3 in the first place.
OK, it is not because it formatted as ext3. You keep referring to ext3 as if it were a problem; that is a red herring. There is nothing wrong with ext3. It's slower than ext4, that's all.

If you mean that sda3 appears as a drive from the Live CD, then I understand. The Live CD has its own /home, which is independent of the one on your hard drive.

Regarding the rest of your post:

It really is as simple as I explained in [post #2]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10520555#post10520555").

So, I think we need to step back a bit...

You seem to be keen to format as ext4. OK, you can do that.

**First:** Do a full backup of your data. The simplest way is as I explained in [post #6]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10525308#post10525308"). Copy your entire /home directory to your thumb drive. Double-check your thumb drive to ensure that it's all backed up.

Then make a *second* backup of your important data (I always find a second backup important, in case you accidentally do something stupid and erase your first backup).

**Second:** Install Ubuntu the way you want, but do it as step 2a in [post #2]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10520555#post10520555").

Restore your data from your backup to your new /home folder (after you have successfully rebooted). I would suggest you restore *only* data, not settings and hidden directories, at first. That way you get the default 10.04 settings. You can selectively restore settings from your backup as needed. Keep your backup for at least a couple of months, just in case you discover you have left something off.

Good luck.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-03-06
I forgot to say: When you install 10.04, ensure you are connected to the Internet. The installation downloads needed drivers and, optionally, updates, which can make your installation cleaner and easier.

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-03-06
OK got all that. Your point of being in the internet is well taken. I understand about ext3 vs ext4, some have advised ext3 because my use is unlikly to need the extra facility of ext4. I note that 10.04.2 defaults to ext4 and if that is needed then I will leave it at that. What I have said repeatedly is that I mistakenly formatted my empty sda3 to ext3, because I thought it would be necessary, before moving the data over to it when I should not have done so, which is what you said yourself.

sda3 was formed using gparted from 9.10 Live CD. This was straightforward. I guess that it will be neceassary to choose option 2a to clear out sda3 and reform it with gparted as before without formatting it, then copy the back-up into it.

What advice about pointing Nautilus to sda3 that I raised above?

SWMBO calls...must leave, ?back tomorrow!

C.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-03-06
> **colintivy said:**
> ... some have advised ext3 because my use is unlikly to need the extra facility of ext4.
I don't understand that recommendation. When ext4 first came out, it was buggy, but that has been resolved. I have had no problems whatsoever with ext4.

ext4 is faster than ext3, and has some extra security features. You can read about it in the latest edition of [Full Circle Magazine (#46)]("http://fullcirclemagazine.org/issue-46/") (page 20).

 > **colintivy said:**
> I note that 10.04.2 defaults to ext4 and if that is needed then I will leave it at that.
Again, it's not needed; you could use ext3, ext2, NTFS, ReiserFS, etc. But ext4 is recommended for Linux Ubuntu.

> **colintivy said:**
> sda3 was formed using gparted from 9.10 Live CD. This was straightforward. I guess that it will be neceassary to choose option 2a to clear out sda3 and reform it with gparted as before without formatting it
If you choose option 2a, then the installation will format it for you.

> **colintivy said:**
> What advice about pointing Nautilus to sda3 that I raised above?
The installation will handle that for you. Don't worry about it.

Remember to back up your Windows data, too. Although installation these days is very safe, there is always a small chance of catastrophic data loss (admittedly, more often through user error). Again, [Clonezilla]("http://www.clonezilla.org/") will let you make a full backup of your entire disk if you have an external USB drive, so if you truly screw up, you can just restore the entire drive. I have used it to good effect, especially after the children got viruses on Windows.

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-03-07
Had a little fiddle with Nautilus, did not realise that when Places is selected it is Nautilus! I had only used it from Terminal before. Tried to drag and drop copy but stumbled on permissions required. This brought me to consider trying Terminal again because I can sudo that and get round permissions. This did not seem to be possible at first glance. Any advice?

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-03-07
> **colintivy said:**
> Had a little fiddle with Nautilus, did not realise that when Places is selected it is Nautilus! I had only used it from Terminal before. Tried to drag and drop copy but stumbled on permissions required. This brought me to consider trying Terminal again because I can sudo that and get round permissions. This did not seem to be possible at first glance. Any advice?
I could help you, but you haven't explained precisely what it is that you are trying to do!

What do you want to copy, and to where?

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-03-09
Sorry to confuse you further!  One of your recommendations was to copy the /home in the sda3 partition to a thumb drive (I have two of these with several compressed back-ups, the last being late Dec 2010) as back-ups There is plenty of spare room on them for this. I will put the back-ups one on each if I can get Nautilus to complete the task. What I have come up against is that shortly after setting it off from the Browser it pops up with denied permissions here and there and stops. When I have user Nautilus before, it was from the Teminal where I could use sudo nautilus giving me root priviledges. For some reason I have so far failed to get it to behave this time. It would seem that I have not found the correct file reference to end the command. I will explore some more but if there is a quick answer I will be grateful.

My nice new 10.04.2 disk arrived today but I will not peer at it until the fresh  back-up problem is sorted.

Time has been in short supply; grass-cutting and other "neccesary" tasks, combined with RAFA AGM and Branch meeting to contend with. Also preparations for a couple of weeks c/o P&O to West Med at the end of the month. Who said being (very) retired is boring?/

Regards,

C.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-03-09
You can still use a terminal. You don't have to use Nautilus.

Alternatively, press Alt-F2 and type
```
gksu nautilus
```That will open Nautilus as root. Warning: it will be root, so be very careful what you do!

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-03-12
Tried that and also Terminal with sudo but I still get the Pemission denied because "I do not own the files" when I try to copy sda3 to my thumb drives. All very frustrating, I might just have to rely on my existing compressed back-up of last December. Any further advice??

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-03-13
I do not understand how you get this problem. Is your thumb drive write-protected, perhaps? Would you cut-and-paste the sudo command that you used in terminal, together with its output?

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-03-15
I seem to confuse you more than I do myself.The batch of commands that I used were recommended in Plus.net forum before you got back to me were:-
   
      CODE   sudo mkdir /media/HOME3
             sudo mount /dev/sda3 /media/HOME3
             sudo nautilus /media/HOME3

This got me and my data into nautilus, I dragged the file to the ikon of my thumb drive, which was mounted, and the copying started but shortly an error message came up telling me exactly the same as before i.e. the files .dbus and /colin could not be copied because I did not own them, which is very strange following my root privelidges to get over the problem. My thumb drives have already got a few backups generated by Simple Back-up which have been compressed and I can access them, but I have not tried to decomprss them using System Restore yet. One possible workaround would be to use Simple Back-up again since it has always worked, I did think that copying the data for the short term use was a better way to go, perhaps I was wrong!

What could be significant is that, following my inability to complete my log-in when booting-up 10.04.2, which is more or less where all this started, I discovered the Failsafe Gnome option at the bottom of the screen (along with Gnome which still did not let me in). This let me get straight to the desktop and apparently use the system properly. I am convinced that my username and password are all in there somewhere but the hurdle that stops me logging-in normally is by passed by the Failsafe device. I have not found any documentation describing this useful tool and assumed that it was similar to Windows Safe which by-passes a lot of drivers etc., to get a rough and ready system running. but of course was pleased that the Gnome option was much better. Niggling in my mind was a suggestion that this failure to complete the normal loggin-in was due to a inpprop[riate video driver and perhaps that was being by-passed. Now my laptop does not have any exotic video bits and the driver is an old Widows one and all video stuff is on the motherboard. 8.04, 9.10 all accepted the original driver without fuss and the display on 10.04.2 is perfectly normal. Could this be a clue to the original problem? If it is how can it be got over??

Incidentally, looking at some of the earlier exchanges, I omitted to say that the laptop is entirely Ubuntu, I got rid of Win 98 before I switched to 8.04, I actually changed the HD for a new bigger one to give m more elbow room, so there is no conflict there (except the video driver as mentioned).

---

### Post by johntaylor1887 on 2011-03-15
> **Paddy Landau said:**
> 
[*]Make a backup of _**all**_ your data. I suggest that you back up your entire /home partition, including all hidden directories (those starting with ".").


*Or*, just backup select hidden config files such as .mozilla/.thunderbird/etc. Much easier than backing up the whole home folder. Besides, every once in a while, a config file will not mesh correctly with a new version of an app.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-03-16
@johntaylor1887: What you say is true. However, at this stage I think Colin has bigger issues to worry about.

> **colintivy said:**
> The batch of commands that I used were recommended in Plus.net forum before you got back to me were...
I take it that was from the Live CD? It's a slightly complicated way of doing it, but it should have worked. Your symptoms make me suspect there's a conflict on the thumb drive itself.

(Just a quick note: For GUI programs (such as Nautilus), use gksu instead of sudo. So, in future, use "gksu nautilus /media/HOME3".)

Can you do the following for me. (I usually use the GUI, so my instructions are for that.)


[LIST=1]
[*]Boot into the **Live CD**.
[*]Plug in your thumb drive and create a new directory on your thumb drive. (You can do this in Nautilus.)
[*]You should be able to go to the Places menu and find your /dev/sda3 there, but it will have a different name. Open it to check that you have the right place.
[*]Having found the right place in step 3, copy your entire home folder (which, I imagine, will be called colin) to the new directory that you created on your thumb drive. As you are on the Live CD, you should have no problem.
[*]If you get an error that is not permission-related, post it here.
[/LIST]

If you still get a permission-related problem:


[LIST=1]
[*]Check your new directory on the thumb drive. Ensure that it is still empty (if not, delete the files inside it). Be careful -- don't delete your /dev/sda3 files!
[*]Press Alt-F2, type *gksu nautilus*, and try step 4 above again.
[*]If you get an error that is not permission-related, post it here.
[/LIST]
 
If you *still* get permission problems:


[LIST=1]
[*]Start a new terminal (Accessories > Terminal).
[*]Type the command *sudo parted --list* (that's two dashes before the word *list*).
[*]Post the results here.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-03-16
Before I explore and have a go at the procedures above, can I clear up a few points that may not have registered with you.

1. The laptop only has Ubuntu on it so there is no Windows bloat on the HD.

2. The thumb drives do not have write protection enabled. They have successfully stored a handful of back-ups generated by Simple Back-up (as far as I can tell, they are compressed and have contents that look big enough for full and incremental sessions). But I will check as you suggest. My original problem was way back when the HD got full because I had ignorantly not arranged to purge the Trash files within the back-up program. That was cleard up by deleting them using nautilus.

3. I intended to install 10.04 from its Live CD that I had, but its initial screens did not have the boot into "Try it" option, the install option only came up with the log-in display which I could not use because it had not asked for its log-in & password data. I had a Live CD for 9.10 which behaved perfectly and its Update Manager had the option to upgrade to 10.04.2. So I reasoned that if I installed 9.10 and all the data looked OK I could do the upgrade. This appeared to work well but when I tried to log-in and password to 10.04, they were accepted i.e. the panel disappeared and a lot of HD work ensued, but then came back to the log-in/password panel. Clearly some sort of hurdle was not passed and a loop formed. This where the Failsafe Gnome, described earlier, was discovered. This appears to allow me to use 10.4.2 entirely normally.

4. My use of the Terminal has been only from the 10.04.2 desktop and seem to do all the things that you would expect. I can use a Live CD if needed.

I have taken a screenshot of you last post and will get down to a carefull step by step through the advice. There may be some delay because we are taking cruise from the end of the month for a couple of weeks to the W.Med and house-putting to bed and packing are beginning to loom large!

Thanks for your patience.

  C.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-03-16
Thanks for the further detail, Colin.

> **colintivy said:**
> I intended to install 10.04 from its Live CD that I had, but its initial screens did not have the boot into "Try it" option
That makes me think there was something wrong with the Live CD. My copies most definitely have the option to try.

I would re-download the 10.4 image, check the MD5 sum to ensure it is OK, then burn it to CD or load it to USB stick using Startup Disk Creator.

> **colintivy said:**
> My use of the Terminal has been only from the 10.04.2 desktop and seem to do all the things that you would expect. I can use a Live CD if needed.
Use the Live CD. Your errors could be explained by trying to copy the home directory while logged in; for example, .dbus is a virtual system folder, not a real one.

The alternative is to copy your home directory to the thumb drive while logged in using a terminal command. Assuming you have your thumb drive mounted on /media/HOME3 (as in your previous example):
```
mkdir /media/HOME3/newbackup
sudo cp -xar -t /media/HOME3/newbackup /home/colin
```

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-03-23
Since we lasr corresponded, I have now got a new LiveCD 10.04.2 which I have not done much with so far but I am puzzled that, when I boot from it, the option panel comes up properly with the "Try Ubuntu" and Install options on it, which I did not get on my original one which is a relief. This was short-lived because when I selected "Try" it responded with a request for a log-in name and password which seems wrong. I did try to just log-in with blanks in the two boxes, it came back with "Authentication failed"! Now of course it does not know what these texts could be, so where do we go from there? There is a Ubuntu document which covers this eventuality but does not help me now. It suggested the blank log-in as a solution.

I have not tried to save my old /home data yet, time has not been around enough for a consistent sit-down.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2011-03-23
Try logging in as ubuntu (must be all lower case) and leave the password blank.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-03-23
Colin, as you keep having these odd errors, did you check the MD5 sum before burning your CD?

Also, try burning the CD at a slower speed, just in case there is an error with the burning process.

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-03-25
@kansasnoob

Tried that...still no joy!

@ Paddy.

The Live disk is a commercially made one, not downloaded (too slow). It has worked correctly but slowly on an old XP tower. There is advice on LQ forum that the failsafe session gets round the existing installed 10.04.2 problem of no logging-in by using an alternative video driver.  Clwarly there is no such option with LiveCD.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-03-27
Colin, I'm sorry, I really don't know what to do short of getting a new Live CD that works. You might have to use a torrent to download the Live CD; the torrent will ensure that the download is valid. But it sounds as though you have dial-up, is that right?

I don't mind making one for you (I live in the UK). If you're happy with that, post me a blank CD (PM me to find my address; I have no CD's left otherwise I'd just do it), I'll burn the CD (and test it for you), and post it back to you.

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-03-27
No, I am on broadband of a sort which is on a long overhead line (of damp string??) and longish downloads can get broken before finishing that is why I chose the disk. As I said my new disk did work on a XP machine and did not display any of the symptoms that it does on my laptop. It may well work OK when I choose Install. This I will do once I have saved my old /home, unless it will not be harmed during the setting up of the partitions. I would like to solve the log-in problem as well. It is one step at a time.

I am on hols for two weeks now, so an apparent gap in correspondence is not to be unexpected.

Sorry that I mis-spelled "clearly" previously, Spellchecker not on!

Thank you for the kind offer of burning me a new disk, I hope that will not be neccesary at this stage. It is possible that, once I have solved the associated problems, it could all be sweetness and light!!

Kind regards,

Colin

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-03-28
If you have a reasonably fast connection, but the connection often gets broken, you can use a torrent to download. It will automatically cope with breaks, and continue to download from where it left off.


[LIST]
[*] Start your torrent program (I think you will find it under Accessories > Internet).
[*]Go to the [torrent downloads]("http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/alternative-download#bt") web page.
[*]Choose either [ubuntu-10.10-desktop-i386.iso.torrent]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/maverick/ubuntu-10.10-desktop-i386.iso.torrent") (for 32-bit) or [ubuntu-10.10-desktop-amd64.iso.torrent]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/maverick/ubuntu-10.10-desktop-amd64.iso.torrent") (for 64-bit).
[/LIST]
 
The torrent program will download the ISO for you, automatically resume whenever the Internet connection breaks, and check that it has downloaded correctly (so you won't need to check the MD5 sum).

Give that a bash, Colin, and see what happens.

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-05-16
Hi Paddy!

Sorry that I have appeared to have given up! Been away on hols and now very busy with other things (such as agriculture et al...SWMBO will not cut the grass or trim the hedges!!)

At present, my temporary 10.04.2 installation is working fine (with Failsafe Gnome). I have got my old /home on a USB stick (must update that with extra data sometime) and will clear out all my partitions and start again when the pace slows. One oddity that has caught my eye is that my laptop seems to be ignoring my 1.2Meg floppy drive. Is this due to modern kit not having them any more and the facility is redundant? Sorry to lose it!

When I do get a proper /home on its own partition with the basic clean installation stuff in it and then face the prospect of putting the existing old /home data into it from the stick, what is the most handy way of copying it over?

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-05-16
> **colintivy said:**
> ... my laptop seems to be ignoring my 1.2Meg floppy drive.
Sorry, I wouldn't know about that. It's been long since I even saw a floppy disk. I can't imagine why you'd want to use one these days!

> **colintivy said:**
> When I do get a proper /home on its own partition with the basic clean installation stuff in it and then face the prospect of putting the existing old /home data into it from the stick, what is the most handy way of copying it over?
For a new installation, simply copy the data that you need.

Keep the USB safe for a couple of months. Should you discover you want to restore settings for a specific program, you can copy that program's folder. (Most settings are stored in hidden folders, e.g. LibreOffice's settings are stored in a folders named [FONT=Courier New].libreoffice[/FONT] -- note the leading point.)

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-05-18
Thanks Paddy,

Surprisingly, various posts as recent as mid last year have shown that floppies are still very much valued for swapping small file between computers and many users are quite irate about having to jump through hoops to get their floppy drives back to use again. They were seeing the ikon for the drive in Places which would nor mount in 10.04.1. I am on 10.04.2 and the ikon has vanished entirely which seems to be ominous

Re: moving folders from USB back-up to the newly installed /home, I assume that there is no problem in copying folders which contain other folders in one go.It is the data that I wish to transpose of course.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-05-18
> **colintivy said:**
> various posts as recent as mid last year have shown that floppies are still very much valued...Gosh. I suppose many people still use older technologies, especially in poorer parts of the world where buying a USB stick may be beyond their budgets.

> **colintivy said:**
> I assume that there is no problem in copying folders which contain other folders in one go.Correct. When you copy or move a folder, it copies or moves its entire contents including hidden folders and files. The only obstacle would be if you did not have permission to read some of the contents; but as USB sticks usually use FAT32, which does not store permissions, you should not have that problem.

---

### Post by colintivy on 2011-05-22
Thanks Paddy. I have not the time to proceed right now but will report in due course.

:)

---

