---
title: "10.04 live cd boot problem"
date: 2012-01-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ubume2 on 2012-01-24
I've just received a new Dell Dimension 620s with Intel i5 processor, 1T HD 6g RAM.

When booting the live cd for 10.04 I get the Ubuntu screen then I get a black screen with this "(initramfs) unable to find a medium containing a live file system" It's a 32 bit iso. I don't know whether the i5 is 64 bit or 32. cat /proc/cpuinfo returns an lm, just like the old computer returns.

I booted the CD up just fine on my old computer.  
I was able to install Ubuntu 11.10 on the new Dell.

Advice regarding the problem would be appreciated.

Thanks :confused:

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2012-01-24
The i5 is 64bit. Live cd's can be hit or miss at times. Perhaps you could try a 64bit live cd and see what happens. Btw, the default ubuntu iso is going to be 64bit starting with 12.04. 64 is primetime and here to stay. I've been running 64bit for 2 years with no regrets.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2012-01-24
Also, I might add, I have an i5 laptop that I needed to fix a mistake I made, and the 32bit cd wouldn't boot up, but the 64bit cd worked fine. Give it a try.

---

### Post by ubume2 on 2012-01-24
Thanks wolfen. BTW, when downloading the 64 bit iso, it shows it as an AMD iso. Does that make any difference?

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2012-01-24
> **ubume2 said:**
> Thanks wolfen. BTW, when downloading the 64 bit iso, it shows it as an AMD iso. Does that make any difference?

No difference, go for it. Let us know how it goes.

---

### Post by ubume2 on 2012-01-25
> **wolfen69 said:**
> No difference, go for it. Let us know how it goes.

Installed successfully using the AMD desktop iso.  Works like gangbusters on the new computer.

Thanks wolfen69!

---

