---
title: "No mousepad movement on my Laptop"
date: 2009-10-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by scrypt on 2009-10-12
I have no mousepad movement on my Laptop

it is a dell studio 1737.

I can use my Keyboard and I can also use A USB mouse.

But my Laptops mousepad has NO functionality at all

How can I rectify this.

I have searched for a fix but nothing has worked so far.

---

### Post by swoody on 2009-10-12
What version of Ubuntu are you running? Also, can you post the contents of the file /etc/X11/xorg.conf for us?

---

### Post by scrypt on 2009-10-14
Thank-you for your reply.

I am using Ubuntu 9.10(Karmic) after using dist-upgrade.

I have A Dell Studio 1737 Laptop.
My Laptops Keyboard works just fine.
It just my Mousepad that does NOT work at all.

I can use A USB Mouse though.

Here is my 'sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf'  output :


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-10-14
how'd it work in 9.04?

.

---

### Post by scrypt on 2009-10-14
Anyone help me out with this please??

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-10-14
i have the same laptop as you.
should work completely out of the box
try adding
```

Section "InputDevice"
       	Identifier    	"Synaptics TouchPad"
       	Driver        	"synaptics"
       	Option        	"SendCoreEvents"    "true"
       	Option        	"Device"    "/dev/psaux"
       	Option        	"Protocol"    "auto-dev"
       	Option        	"SHMConfig"    "true"
       	Option        	"HorizEdgeScroll"    "1"
     	Option      	"MinSpeed"      "0.75"
       	Option      	"MaxSpeed"      "0.75"
       	Option      	"AccelFactor"      "0.020"
       	Option      	"EdgeMotionMinSpeed"   "200"
       	Option      	"EdgeMotionMaxSpeed"   "200"

```
to your xorg.conf

EndSection

---

### Post by scrypt on 2009-10-15
Hi Carlee

Thanks for your reply.

I'll give it A try and post back how I get on.

Just to clarify.

Do I add that to the bottom of my xorg.conf ?

---

### Post by scrypt on 2009-10-15
I added that section to the bottom of xorg.conf

and now I cannot even start Ubuntu.

I get these errors:

FATAL SERVER ERROR
No SCREEN FOUND

ERROR! Your Kernel source for kernel 2.6.28-15-generic cannot be found at /lib/modules/2.6.28-15-generic/build or /lib/modules/2.6.28-15-generic/source.

dpkg: ERROR processing virtualbox-ose-source (--configure):

subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
Errors were encountered while processing:
virtualbox-ose-source
E: sub-process /usr/bin/dokg returned an error code 1

Parse error on line 71 of section input device in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf
Unexpected EOF.
Missing endsection keyword

---

### Post by scrypt on 2009-10-15
How can I edit xorg.conf from the recovery console command line??

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-10-15
> **scrypt said:**
> How can I edit xorg.conf from the recovery console command line??

use the LiveCD to access and edit your xorg.conf file

you can always just use the back-up copy of your xorg.conf file

(renaming a copy of it back to xorg.conf from whatever you named the back-up file)

.

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-10-15
looking at carlee's post, you may need to add 'endsection' to the end:
```

Section "InputDevice"
       	Identifier    	"Synaptics TouchPad"
       	Driver        	"synaptics"
       	Option        	"SendCoreEvents"    "true"
       	Option        	"Device"    "/dev/psaux"
       	Option        	"Protocol"    "auto-dev"
       	Option        	"SHMConfig"    "true"
       	Option        	"HorizEdgeScroll"    "1"
     	Option      	"MinSpeed"      "0.75"
       	Option      	"MaxSpeed"      "0.75"
       	Option      	"AccelFactor"      "0.020"
       	Option      	"EdgeMotionMinSpeed"   "200"
       	Option      	"EdgeMotionMaxSpeed"   "200"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by scrypt on 2009-10-16
I have made a right old mess.

I can boot into ubuntu now. but i cannot install the ATI/AMD propriety fglrx graphics driver from
administrator-hardware drivers.
nothing happens.

Also if I press ctrl-alt-F1 I get A distorted multi coloured screen.

I managed to replace the xorg.conf using my ubuntu(Jaunty) Live Cd.
But I am using Ubuntu(Karmic)

also as soon as i login to the desktop I get an error message stating that my screen is not compozited!

how can i fix this??

i am still a begginer so please explain to me!!

---

### Post by scrypt on 2009-10-16
Is there anybody here who can help me with this??

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-10-16
try removing the xorg.conf file
```

sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```
then reboot

---

### Post by scrypt on 2009-10-16
thank-you for your reply.

I am still learning about Ubuntu.

Do I need to remove the xorg file from recovery mode or whilst im inside ubuntu from my Desktop??

Also, what do I need to do after I remove the xorg file to repair it?

could you clarify how this would help me please??

---

### Post by starcannon on 2009-10-16
Can you please attach the file the following command creates(the file will be on your desktop):
```

sudo lshw > ~/Desktop/hardware.doc

```Post that as an attachment please, see paper clip up at top of create new message window.

Also, in the future, if you need a command line text editor, try nano.
```

nano /path/to/some/file

```When working with system files like xorg.conf some things to remember to do:

[LIST=1]
[*]Back up your currently working file before modifying it.
[LIST=1]
[*]```
cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf ~/xorg.conf.bak
```
[/LIST]
 
[*]When using nano on a system file you will need to sudo your text editor.
[LIST=1]
[*]For Nano you would type:```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
[*]For Gedit you would type:```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
[/LIST]
 
[*]If you always remember to do #1 first, then if things don't go as planned, you can always get back to your starting place with the command: ```
sudo cp ~/xorg.conf.bak /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
[/LIST]
If you need to reset xorg.conf to a generic default:
Follow step one from previous list, then remove the current file:```
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```Now to create a fresh clean xorg.conf file:```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` That should set you up with a clean generic xorg.conf.

Now either restart the X server, or reboot.
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```or
```
sudo reboot
```I know some of this advice is a little late, but I think it could be effective for you in the very near future.

Once that hardware list is attached we can determine what module/driver needs loaded.

GL and HF

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-10-16
> **scrypt said:**
> thank-you for your reply.

I am still learning about Ubuntu.

Do I need to remove the xorg file from recovery mode or whilst im inside ubuntu from my Desktop??

Also, what do I need to do after I remove the xorg file to repair it?

could you clarify how this would help me please??

xorg.conf is not required for X to function.
When you install the ati drivers the xorg.conf will be generated using the defaults for fglrx.
If fglrx (the proprietary driver) was already installed do this:
```

sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo aticonfig --initial

```

you should see this:
```

Could not find configuration file, so create an empty one
Uninitialised file found, configuring.
Using /etc/X11/xorg.conf
Saved back-up to /etc/X11/xorg.conf.original-1

```

if you were to view xorg.conf it should look something (but not exactly) like this:
```

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by scrypt on 2009-10-16
Thank-you for your replies I will post the output when I am on my ubuntu system later on.

I removed the xorg.conf file.
and I still have No mousepad.

can you please give me step by step instruction on what I have to do next please?

Do I need to install the fglrx driver?  

is there anything I need to remove first?

---

### Post by scrypt on 2009-10-16
Thank-you starcannon for your clear advice/commands

I will give them a try and slao post the output in my one of my replies when I am next in Ubuntu.

I am in windows at the moment...

---

### Post by scrypt on 2009-10-17
Cheers for your posts guys.

Here is the Hardware.doc output file (Attached to this post) :

Can you take a look for me startcannon?

I am still having trouble with this.
I have no mousepad movement.

I appreciate all the replies, but I am not sure which ones I should be using.

Can anyone simplify what I can do next to fix this issue please.

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-10-17
what happens when you try this:
```

sudo aticonfig --initial

```

---

### Post by scrypt on 2009-10-20
Im still having trouble with this issue.

when i boot up ubuntu I get this messsage:

WARNINg screen isnt composited.
 please run compiz(-Fusion) or another compositing manager.

I also do not have the option to install my FGLRX propriety driver form system-administrator-hardware drivers.
it is not there.

I also still cannot move my laptops mousepad.

I am a beggginer and i really could use some help!!

---

### Post by scrypt on 2009-10-20
Here is the "sudo aticonfig --initial" output :

laptop:~$ sudo aticonfig --initial
Found fglrx primary device section
Using /etc/X11/xorg.conf
Saved back-up to /etc/X11/xorg.conf.fglrx-6
mark@tiple2009-laptop:~$

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-10-20
now what happens when you boot

---

