---
title: "9.10 download message"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dbuss63 on 2009-04-26
I am trying to upgrade to 9.04 from 8.10 from upgrade manager.  While downloading the files, I get the following message during the "Setting New Software Channels" phase which stops the installation process:  

W:Failed to fetch cdrom:[Ubuntu 8.04 _Hardy Heron_ - Release i386 (20080423)]/dists/hardy/main/binary-i386/Packages.gz  Please use apt-cdrom to make this CD-ROM recognized by APT. apt-get update cannot be used to add new CD-ROMs
, W:Failed to fetch cdrom:[Ubuntu 8.04 _Hardy Heron_ - Release i386 (20080423)]/dists/hardy/restricted/binary-i386/Packages.gz  Please use apt-cdrom to make this CD-ROM recognized by APT. apt-get update cannot be used to add new CD-ROMs
, E:Some index files failed to download, they have been ignored, or old ones used instead.

I have no ideas what this means or what to do about it.  Any suggestions?

Also, if I purchase a 9.04 distribution CD, can I install this new version on my partitioned drive without wiping out my Windows partition and software?

Thanks,
Dennis

---

### Post by nynoah on 2009-04-26
You have a box checked in your source list for the CD.  That is why it is doing that.  System - Administration - Software sources. You will see a check off in there for install from CD rom.  Just uncheck it.

that being said. I had a alot of problems updating.  If you have a way to move all your files off.  I have never had good results upgrading.  I have found it is always best to just do a clean install.  I am sure upgrading will work if you got all your programs out of synaptic.  But I know for me that I have added a lot from outside synaptic.  They do not upgrade and things start to break.  

To get a CD.  Just down load it from the net then burn it off using brasero.  Just make sure that you burn it at the SLOWEST speed possible.

---

### Post by ssdt on 2009-04-26
Also the title makes it misunderstood. I think it should be 9.04 not 9.10.

---

