---
title: "New Clean install 9.10 screen orientation off"
date: 2010-03-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by delapug on 2010-03-14
Ok I'm a complete noob to this. Just wanted to try something other than windows for a while.
Using an old spare laptop. Gateway MX3225
Full clean install, went ok I guess.
Two problems I've not been able to get under control.
1. The screen position is off/ to big
it's fixed in the upper right hand corner but I can't see the other side or the bottom
Here's what I got when using lspci
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies. Inc. CN700/P4M800 Pro/P4M80 
0 CE/VN800 [S3 UniCrome Pro] (rev 01)
 
2. I got no sound, to be honest I've not really looked around for an answer for this yet
been to busy trying to fix the screen
 
 
Thanks in advance for any help

---

### Post by Soulcage on 2010-03-14
For this first problem does your monitor have a auto button or something it will move the screen to fit the video. Mine is like this the first time I installed and installed video drivers.
Sounds like it anyways.

---

### Post by delapug on 2010-03-14
no it's a laptop I can't find anything to move it around or resize it
 
thanks

---

### Post by Donald1715 on 2010-03-14
I bet your system has an Nvidia video chip. Big problems there. Mine is restricted to 800X600, and it gets worse if I try updating the Nvidia driver... it then becomes maxed at 640X480. All you can do to fix it short term is to ZOOM out. Can't tell you how to do that ATM as Ubuntu has locked me out and I'm here via WinXP. I installed Ubuntu 9.10 as a Dual boot install with WinXP. For some reason I know not why, last time I rebooted and tried booting into Ubuntu, it demands a login name and there is no login name so I'm SOL. Will likely have to dump it and reinstall.

I will tell you tho, that I installed Ubuntu on another system that had an Intel graphics chip and there were ZERO problems. Everything perfect.

D

---

### Post by delapug on 2010-03-14
I don't believe it's nvidia.
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies. Inc. CN700/P4M800 Pro/P4M80 
0 CE/VN800 [S3 UniCrome Pro] (rev 01)

~$ sudo lshw -C video
  *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: CN700/P4M800 Pro/P4M800 CE/VN800 [S3 UniChrome Pro]
       vendor: VIA Technologies, Inc.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: 01
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm agp agp-3.0 bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=64 mingnt=2
       resources: memory:d0000000-d3ffffff(prefetchable) memory:d4000000-d4ffffff

---

### Post by delapug on 2010-03-14
got the sound going now if I could just get the screen right. I'm not having any luck whatsoever

---

### Post by spidertaker23 on 2010-03-22
I have this same laptop.  I am desperately trying to get the video and Sound to work properly.

Did you get the video working yet?

Also ... how did you fix the sound?

---

### Post by nzmark on 2010-03-26
:popcorn: I'm a first time user of linux and started using Ubuntu 9.10 this week, I have an Amilo L7320GW laptop which appears to have a similar chipset..

amazed@amazed-laptop:~$ sudo lshw -C video
[sudo] password for amazed: 
  *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: CN700/P4M800 Pro/P4M800 CE/VN800 [S3 UniChrome Pro]
       vendor: VIA Technologies, Inc.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: 01
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm agp agp-2.0 bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=64 mingnt=2
       resources: memory:f0000000-f3ffffff(prefetchable) memory:d1000000-d1ffffff
amazed@amazed-laptop:~$ 


:popcorn: I was lucky my sound worked, managed to solve the screen resolution problem by creating a xorg.conf (Open a terminal) "sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf" put in password, cut and paste the lines below..

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver        "openchrome"
    Option        "XaaNoImageWriteRect"
    Option        "SWCursor"    "true"
    Option        "HWCursor"    "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    SubSection "Display"
        Virtual 1280 800
    EndSubSection
EndSection




:popcorn:  Save by pressing CTRL+X and follow screen prompts, reboot.

I've tried different configurations cut and pasted from various sources, relating to the VGA compatible controller CN700/P4M800 Pro/P4M800 CE/VN800 [S3 UniChrome Pro] chipset

This is the best config so far but I still get an annoying click every couple seconds when playing video, I reckon a line added or taken away could solve it, but as I'm such a noob at such things I don't where to start, if anyone has any clue on this stuff, please let me know.

---

