---
title: "13.04 boots normally_ But will not boot with Dell 19&quot; Monitor connected"
date: 2013-05-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Rekhillbill on 2013-05-04
Hello,

My Toshiba lap top will not boot with the Dell 19" monitor connected.

I get a black screen with the Dell connected.

This is a new installation of 13.04 in dual boot with Windows 7.

13.04  will boot OK without the monitor

lspci | grep VGA results:

Radeon HD 7640G

All 13.04 updates downloaded OK.

I used Synaptic Package Manager to install the update driver(s ?) ( I am using an ubuntu approved driver) for the Radeon.

I can connect the Dell monitor, after 13.04 boots and using the FN F4 key two time transfer to the Dell.

I have to use the FN F4 combination two time because the first time both laptop and Dell screens are active but not with the correct resolution.

After the second use of the FN F4 the resolution that works on the Dell monitor is 1280 x 1024 (5:4).

Sometime when I shutdown the computer, it will not shutdown with the monitor connected.

Please help...I am very new at this;  Have only been using Ubuntu since March 2013.

Thanks,

---

### Post by Rekhillbill on 2013-05-04
Adding more info about the VGA:

cindy@cindy-Satellite-L850D:~$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 vga
00:01.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Trinity [Radeon HD 7640G] [1002:9903]
    Subsystem: Toshiba America Info Systems Device [1179:fb28]
    Kernel driver in use: radeon
cindy@cindy-Satellite-L850D:~$ 

I am really having problems booting now even with the Dell monitor disconnected.

At time the laptop screen just goes black.

I have to press the on/off button to shut down and start all over.

This is happening with the battery charger plugged in and when I am just running on batteries.

Hope the above helps someone with more knowledge than I have to give me some suggestions

Thanks,

---

### Post by Rekhillbill on 2013-05-04
OK...here's what I did and it seems to have fixed my issues:

I used Synaptic Package manager to install the ( fglrx - amdcccle-updates ) the installed version follows:

2:9.012-0ubuntu1

Also, installed:

fglrx-updates
fglrx-updates-dev

Here's what the Terminal said about the VGA
```

cindy@cindy-Satellite-L850D:~$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 vga
00:01.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Trinity [Radeon HD 7640G] [1002:9903]
    Subsystem: Toshiba America Info Systems Device [1179:fb28]
    Kernel driver in use: fglrx_pci
cindy@cindy-Satellite-L850D:~$ 

```
The resolution is 1280 x 960 (4:3)

Most importantly 13.04 is now recognizing the Dell 19" monitor immediately upon boot up and the other problems I described above hopefully will not return.

Hope, too, that this info helps anyone with my particular problem.

Best,
Bill

---

