---
title: "9.10 freezes with nvidia 96 driver"
date: 2009-11-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bt107 on 2009-11-10
I have an older emachine T3265 with an AMD processor and an onboard GeForce4 MX graphics ship. I've been able to run 9.10 from the LiveCD with no problems. I was also able to install it dual boot with XP, runs fine but the screen is only 800x600. I got a pop up saying there was a proprietary recommended nvidia driver (96) available so I installed via the System Drivers applet. Trouble. Now it locks up at random times. Sometimes it freezes at the login screen and sometimes it runs for several minutes then freezes. No rhyme nor reason to it. When it freezes nothing works. I have to power it down to reboot. I reinstalled from the LiveCD and it worked until I tried to load the nvidia driver again then the same thing happened. I even downloaded the 96 driver from nvidia's site and installed via command line but no luck there either. 

I've read a lot on this forum and others about 9.10 freezing up with various explanations and fixes but none seem to definitively pin down the problem. Is this a bug with 9.10 or with the proprietary driver? Or is this PC just too old to run this release? I would really like to try out 9.10 but so far it's not going so well. Any body have any insights?

Thanks a bunch!

---

### Post by Mariane on 2009-11-10
I have also had problems with nvidia drivers and 9.10
In this post I relate things I did:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1322194](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1322194)

Maybe it'll give you some ideas to fix your problem. 

Mariane

---

### Post by kinemagician on 2009-12-25
I am having the exactly the same problem. I installed the nvidia drivers 96.43.13
I noticed that the CPU load is very high (I have an AMD Athlon XP 2600+ with 1.5 Gb of RAM). Is my hardware to old to run Ubuntu 9.10?:(:

One possibility :confused: is that temperature goes high and the computer freezes.
I will appreciate if somebody could solve the problem.

---

