---
title: "7.04 install"
date: 2010-03-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Phil Hansen on 2010-03-20
Hi,
Got an old laptop (Acer travelmate) to play with and a 7.04 disk which was mailed to me by Ubuntu years ago.
The install goes fine until it ask for a username and password. Any ideas what they would be for an original disc.
9.04 wont load because of I think a ram restriction.
Thanks

---

### Post by derekeverett on 2010-03-20
A couple things to point out here..

First, I don't think 7.04 is supported anymore.. you should be aware of that.

Second, is it asking you to set up your username and password? You need to decide what that is and enter it. You don't need a username or a passowrd to try the live disk if that's whats happening...

---

### Post by Phil Hansen on 2010-03-20
> **derekeverett said:**
> 
First, I don't think 7.04 is supported anymore.. you should be aware of that.
Second, is it asking you to set up your username and password? You need to decide what that is and enter it. You don't need a username or a passowrd to try the live disk if that's whats happening...

I know it is not supported but was trying to get this old box up and running.
I have a 9.04 desktop setup working fine so this is playtime.

It is not asking to setup a username & password but to enter the username and password to procede.
Thought it was odd.
Thanks for the reply

---

### Post by derekeverett on 2010-03-20
Wow. I'm not sure what to tell you. I've never seen or heard of that. The live CD is asking you for a username/password?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-03-20
If you get a login screen on the live CD, then there's a problem with the CD or a problem with your CD drive.

Don't use 7.04. It is too old. You won't be able to install any software for 7.04 because the repositories are gone (7.04 is end-of-life). Ubuntu 9.10 is the current version, and it can be installed with 256mb of RAM. If you have less RAM you can try downloading Lubuntu 9.10, which has a less memory-hungry desktop GUI.

---

### Post by Phil Hansen on 2010-03-20
Thanks for the replies.
None of the live CD's work (7.04, 9.04, 9,10)
All start and on every boot they hang in a different place.
I think the problem is the hardware.
It was my sisters XP machine and gave many problems.
I got her a new box installed 9.04 and she is as happy as a proverbial @#@$.
Think it is time throw this laptop away. Need to clean / remove / destroy the drive before I do though.
Cheers

---

### Post by bumanie on 2010-03-20
9.10 and ubuntu 7.04 need the same amount of ram as far I remember - 256mb of ram for both. 7.04 has not been supported for 2.5 years - try not to use it

---

