---
title: "[SOLVED] Grandkids fiddled with /etc/sudoers :^("
date: 2008-07-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-07-04
OK the grandkids were using my puter last night and when I started up today I got a text warning regarding /etc/sudoers (didn't write it down, sigh)

But when I open /etc/sudoers it looks like this:

[ATTACH]76349[/ATTACH]

I have no idea how to delete "etc/.sudoers.tmp.swp" but if I just hit enter it pulls up what appears to be the original /etc/sudoers file:

[ATTACH]76353[/ATTACH]

Although I'd really appreciate if someone would compare that to their Hardy /etc/sudoers to see if it looks OK. Or I guess I could boot the Live CD and check it against /etc/sudoers from the Live CD.

But I really want to find that "etc/.sudoers.tmp.swp" file and delete it, I just have no idea how to even find it.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-07-04
Here is what my sudoers file looks like, without the modifications except timeout:
```

# This file MUST be edited with the 'visudo' command as root.
#
# See the man page for details on how to write a sudoers file.
# Defaults

# Defaults

Defaults !lecture,tty_tickets,!fqdn

# Uncomment to allow members of group sudo to not need a password
# %sudo ALL=NOPASSWD: ALL

# Host alias specification

# User alias specification

# Cmnd alias specification

# User privilege specification
root    ALL=(ALL) ALL

# Members of the admin group may gain root privileges
 %admin ALL=(ALL) ALL

Defaults: drs00 timestamp_timeout=15
# default time out is 5 minutes


```

You may be able to find it opening nautilus with "gksu nautilus /etc" and navigating to the files in /etc/sudoers. If you see the sudoers.tmp.swp or .sudoers.tmp.swp file you will be able to delete it. You may see several variations as well (.swp1, .swpa, .swpb, etc). They are all safe to delete.

---

### Post by powerpleb on 2008-07-04
this is the default
you need to edit it with
```
sudo visudo
```
Have you tried
```
 sudo rm -f /etc/.sudoers.tmp.swp
```

---

### Post by brian_p on 2008-07-04
> **kansasnoob said:**
> 
I have no idea how to delete "etc/.sudoers.tmp.swp" but if I just hit enter it pulls up what appears to be the original /etc/sudoers file:

```
sudo rm etc/.sudoers.tmp.swp
```

is one way of getting rid of it. It is generated by vim. No harm is done if you delete it.

---

### Post by t0p on 2008-07-04
> **kansasnoob said:**
> 
But I really want to find that "etc/.sudoers.tmp.swp" file and delete it, I just have no idea how to even find it.

Hmm... sounds odd.  How have you tried to find it?

Try
```
sudo cat /etc/.sudoers.tmp.swp
```
That ought to show you the contents of the file.  You can delete it with
```
sudo rm /etc/.sudoers.tmp.swp
```

Actually... I notice that you refer to the file as "etc/.sudoers.tmp.swp".  You need to remember that it begins with a slash (ie, **/etc/.sudoers.tmp.swp**.  If you've been omitting that slash, that'd explain why you can't find it.

Also: if you've been using the GUI when looking for the file, you should note that it's a "hidden" file (its name begins with a "."), so by default Nautilus won't display it. You'll need to click on **View > Show Hidden Files** for it to show up.  And, because it's in the /etc directory, you'll need to run Nautilus with **gksudo** in order to delete that file.  In Terminal, type
```
gksudo
```
Then, in the Run Program launcher that appears, type "nautilus".  You'll need to supply your password, then the instance of Nautilus that starts will be running as root and you'll be able to delete system files to your heart's content. ***So be careful!!!***

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-07-04
Got it! Thanks everyone!

I also changed default editors whilst fooling around.

Now to create a guest account so kiddies can't break things:)

I never sweat it too much though ............. I even create backups of my backups, lol. One of the true beauties of Ubuntu is that if it gets totally hosed I can reinstall fresh in about 1 hour even with my personal modifications.

Great help! Thanks again!

---

