---
title: "12.04, bcm4311, need off-line way to fix it"
date: 2012-10-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-27
I have an old dell laptop that has a bcm4311 wireless adapter.  All of the instructions I have found so far are for when you can have a wire connecting to the router first so you are online.  I don't have that option.  Is there some way to do this off-line - perhaps downloading something on another computer then install it some how on the laptop?

I also posted in [this ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=12321684#post12321684")thread but it is from July so I don't know if anyone is watching it any more.

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-28
Went to a friend's place so I could direct connect to the router and tried all kinds of things mentioned on this forum and in posts on the internet - installing the bcml(?)-kernel-source, trying just additional drivers, etc..  None of this is working.  Apt kicks out the attempts at getting the kernel-source saying the 3 packages dkmg (?), fakeroot and the bcmlx-kernel-source, saying they couldn't be found.  I even had the livecd in and it wouldn't find them.  I tried installing those packages separately via the software center but it won't let me click on "install" - apparently it doesn't follow the same path or something as it doesn't even say it couldn't find it.  The additional drivers hangs at about 10 or so percent (judging by a progress bar) and never goes any further, never gives any error messages.

I do have an external USB adapter I could try to use, but why should I have to do that when I have an internal adapter that apparently from all the posts can be made to work with ubuntu?

Unless someone can give me some kind of pointer(s), I may have to just skip putting ubuntu on the laptop and go back to it's old OS - it's just that I would prefer Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2012-10-28
Hi, you probably would have gotten better results for help had
you posted this in the network/wireless section of the forum. Please
post the results of..

```
lspci -nn | grep 0280
```

thanks

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2012-10-28
Hi, here is the link for installing the drivers you need, offline
*read carefully*

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BroadcomSTA%28Wireless%29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BroadcomSTA%28Wireless%29)

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-29
I'll give that a closer look, but it looks like what I already tried that didn't work.  I also did post in the networking forum, in a post from July that was about this same thing, but an admin closed it right after I posted saying it was an old thread.

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-29
Well, I used the USB wifi adapter I had to just completely reinstall 12.04 32 bit.  I selected the options to download software and 3rd party.  Everything went fine.  I then looked in additional drivers and it said the b43 sta driver was loaded.  So, I followed the link and installed the pieces as indicated.  Still no luck, no access to the built in wireless.  I then ran the update-manager - it installed a lot of things and then even my USB wireless quit.  I don't even get the network manager "icon".  I really don't understand this, so I guess I'll just give up on the laptop using Ubuntu and just keep my dual-boot on the desktop.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-10-29
Hi, Download the b43 zip file to a flash drive then drag and drop the file to your ubuntudesktop. Right-click it and select Extract Here. Open a terminal and do:
```
sudo mkdir /lib/firmware/b43
sudo cp Desktop/b43/* /lib/firmware/b43
sudo rmmod -f b43
sudo rmmod -f ssb
sudo modprobe b43
```
Thanks

---

### Post by westie457 on 2012-10-29
> **squakie said:**
> Well, I used the USB wifi adapter I had to just completely reinstall 12.04 32 bit.  I selected the options to download software and 3rd party.  Everything went fine.  I then looked in [COLOR="Red"]additional drivers and it said the b43 sta driver[/COLOR] was loaded.  So, I followed the link and installed the pieces as indicated.  Still no luck, no access to the built in wireless.  I then ran the update-manager - it installed a lot of things and then even my USB wireless quit.  I don't even get the network manager "icon".  I really don't understand this, so I guess I'll just give up on the laptop using Ubuntu and just keep my dual-boot on the desktop.

Hi. For the drivers that Wild Man has suggested to work the STA driver must be removed. In a terminal run ```
sudo apt-get remove bcmwl-kernel source
```
before you install the b43 drivers and run the commands. Do not reboot the system until you have the b43 drivers installed and working.

Thank you

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-10-30
Wild Man and westie457, that's exactly what I needed - THANKS!!  I installed the firmware cutter, then the b43 firmware folder, then I found I also needed to delete the bcmwl-kernel-source package and now it works great!  Can't thank you enough!

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-10-30
Your welcome!
Enjoy

---

### Post by josheboy on 2012-11-08
> **Hadaka said:**
> Hi, here is the link for installing the drivers you need, offline
*read carefully*

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BroadcomSTA%28Wireless%29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BroadcomSTA%28Wireless%29)

This just worked perfectly for me! I didn't need a non-internet solution, but it was simple Enough for a newbie like me to follow. Now I can connect wirelessly!

Thanks so much! :)

---

### Post by safiullahtariq on 2013-08-23
Thank you everyone for this post. I searched google and found you people. Thank you Wildman. I got the way to install the drivers, but the drivers worked for me are on this post 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1830336](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1830336)

my WIFI is 4315 

Take Care

---

