---
title: "11.10 Unity button in top left corner?"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by TerribleLIar on 2011-10-14
Is there a way to get the button back to the top left corner like it was in 11.04? I don't much like having the dash home be a button on the Unity toolbar. Waiting half a second for Unity to open annoys me, and going to the top left corner opened it instantly.

---

### Post by thatguruguy on 2011-10-14
Have you tried opening the Dash by clicking on the "Super" (sometimes referred to as the "Windows") button on your keyboard?  It's even quicker and easier than mousing and clicking.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2011-10-14
If you maximize a program such as the web browser you will see why the Dash Home button is now on the Launcher. The maximize/minimize buttons for the program window will sit in the top left corner where the Dash button used to be. I would not recommend messing with the location of this button. This is how things are meant to be.

See Mark Shuttleworth's blog under Panel Evolution

[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/date/2011/08]("http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/date/2011/08")

Regards.

---

### Post by dh003i on 2011-12-02
In Unity under 11.04, the top left corner being used to access the Dash home was great. This is the fastest point on the screen -- especially a 30in monitor -- to access via mouse. Now, the upper left corner has an the "X" close button...except it is a few pixels off of being at the very edge, so it is not instantly clickable when "slamming" to that corner. This is just a bad as the Win95 start menu being a few pixels from the edge of the screen.

Now most user's muscle memory from using 11.04 is to slam the mouse to he upper left corner to get the Dash home. Well, that is now destroyed. Unity under Ubuntu 11.04 was great. Now it is ruined, because of a very key regression. It amazes me that [ten years after this excellent article by Joel Spolsky]("http://www.joelonsoftware.com/uibook/chapters/fog0000000063.html") was written that no developers seem to understand the vast increases in usability that come from having the most useful functions in the four corners of the screen. 

And what is in the upper right hand corner of the screen? System Settings, DIsplay, Lock Screen, Suspend, Shut Down (why not Reboot)...all functions that are used very rarely compared to using the Dash home. Shuttelworth keeps changing good things that users have gotten used to and replacing them with inferior things.

---

### Post by lolpenguin on 2011-12-02
> **dh003i said:**
> In Unity under 11.04, the top left corner being used to access the Dash home was great. This is the fastest point on the screen -- especially a 30in monitor -- to access via mouse. Now, the upper left corner has an the "X" close button...except it is a few pixels off of being at the very edge, so it is not instantly clickable when "slamming" to that corner. This is just a bad as the Win95 start menu being a few pixels from the edge of the screen.

Now most user's muscle memory from using 11.04 is to slam the mouse to he upper left corner to get the Dash home. Well, that is now destroyed. Unity under Ubuntu 11.04 was great. Now it is ruined, because of a very key regression. It amazes me that [ten years after this excellent article by Joel Spolsky]("http://www.joelonsoftware.com/uibook/chapters/fog0000000063.html") was written that no developers seem to understand the vast increases in usability that come from having the most useful functions in the four corners of the screen. 

And what is in the upper right hand corner of the screen? System Settings, DIsplay, Lock Screen, Suspend, Shut Down (why not Reboot)...all functions that are used very rarely compared to using the Dash home. Shuttelworth keeps changing good things that users have gotten used to and replacing them with inferior things.

Umm...clicking shutdown gives reboot as well. Why can't you use [super] instead? And if you hate Unity then don't use it. GNOME Shell has the "four corners" feature, Activities top-left, Session top-right, Notifications bottom-right

---

### Post by dh003i on 2011-12-08
> **lolpenguin said:**
> Umm...clicking shutdown gives reboot as well. Why can't you use [super] instead? And if you hate Unity then don't use it. GNOME Shell has the "four corners" feature, Activities top-left, Session top-right, Notifications bottom-right

Super isn't that great because the natural inclination is still to go to the mouse...keyboard navigation of the icons isn't that fast. 

I tried GNOME Shell; it is buggy by default on my install. I did nothing to it, but it displays an ugly cyan blue bar at the top of the screen with text so incredibly poorly rendered that it is essentially unreadable. (the size of the normal bar at the top of GNOME or Unity)

---

