---
title: "problem using hdmi with LCD"
date: 2010-07-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dagarshali on 2010-07-09
Hi,
I have a lenovo idealpad Y450 with a nvidia GEFORCE 110M video card. I have the nvida 256.35 driver.

when i connect my LCD samsung 40" via hdmi and detect displays, it recognizes the tv and the resolution to 1920 x 1080 ( which is right resolution). when i hit apply in the nvidia settings, it gets a message saying everything can't be applied, with an option of apply what is possible. After this, when i hit fn F3 to view the display on TV, the display is slightly larger than the tv screen. I can't see the top and bottom title bar. Not sure what to do?

I have attached the xorg.conf for your reference. This thing worked perfectly when i had 9.10.

> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings: version 256.35 (buildd@platinum) Tue Jul 6 22:52:15 UTC 2010

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig: version 256.35 (buildmeister@builder97.nvidia.com) Wed Jun 16 19:15:05 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Layout0"
Screen 0 "Screen0" RightOf "Screen1"
Screen 1 "Screen1" 0 0
InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
Option "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

# generated from default
Identifier "Mouse0"
Driver "mouse"
Option "Protocol" "auto"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

# generated from default
Identifier "Keyboard0"
Driver "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Unknown"
ModelName "LGD"
HorizSync 30.0 - 75.0
VertRefresh 60.0
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor1"
VendorName "Unknown"
ModelName "PIO VSX-1020"
HorizSync 26.0 - 68.0
VertRefresh 23.0 - 61.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Device0"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
BoardName "GeForce G 110M"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
Screen 0
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Device1"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
BoardName "GeForce G 110M"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
Screen 1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Device0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "TwinView" "0"
Option "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen1"
Device "Device1"
Monitor "Monitor1"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "TwinView" "0"
Option "metamodes" "DFP-1: 1920x1080 +0+0"
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
EndSubSection
EndSection 

Thanks in advance..

Vishwa

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-07-10
Have you tried running nvidia-settings as root to see if that makes a difference? Press Alt-F2 and type

```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

Also checking the TV settings menu, My Samsung has an auto-detect setting when connected to a computer.

---

### Post by dagarshali on 2010-07-11
Hi,
I tried gksu as well.. The result was the same. The top and bottom title bars are not visible.

Any help please?

Regards,
vishwa

---

### Post by johnharris on 2010-07-13
I've had the same problem with my samsung lcd tv and dell xps 1330.
hence: *bump.

---

### Post by fooman on 2010-07-13
have you tried the "overscan compensation" setting in nvidia-settings?

run:

```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

look near the bottom in the left column for the samsung tv,  click it,  then on the right find: overscan compensation,  and make adjustments.

hope that helps.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2010-07-13
in nvidia-settings you need to adjust the overscan

---

### Post by theOgFlomaster on 2010-07-14
I am able to use the slider and adjust my overscan to 127 and its fine until my next reboot. I am running the 256.35 driver and hooked up to a 61" HDTV with 1920x1080 res.

I have tried:
[INDENT]```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```[/INDENT]
and saved my settings after I had adjusted overscan, but it still resets on boot.

what file or where can I manually tell it to use my overscan setting because having change it ever boot is really a PITA

-=Jason=-

---

### Post by johnharris on 2010-07-15
sorry no dice, whenever i look in the nvidia settings menu (whether opened via gksudo nvidia-settings in termenial or system>prefrences>monitor) there is no overscan slider for my samsung lcd tv.  there is an overscan for my laptop screen.  either way, this is one of the first things that ive experienced in linux that is just _way_ easier in win vista, where i can just shove an hdmi cable into a laptop and flip the sound driver and whala.
anyway when i try and set the displays to clones neither the tv or the laptop display are correct.  my laptop display, which should be 1280x800, is about half cut off and the tv has the top and bottom cut off, full screen videos are off on both screens and the weird thing is i swear i tried this once before and it worked fine.
anyway, i really enjoy ubuntu but i would like to get this to work, it would be one less reason boot windows.
thanks.

---

