---
title: "9.10 doesn't start"
date: 2009-12-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by desukane on 2009-12-06
This is my second attempt to write this problems. I'll remember to copy the problem, this time. I'm an extreme newbie at this.
Ubunto 9.10 worked perfectly until I downloaded the latest update, which gave me this
response upon re-boot.

GNU GRUB version 1.97~beta 4
[Minimal BASH-like line editing is supported. For the first word, TAB list of possible command completions. Anywhere else TAB lists to possible device/file completions.]
sh:grub> blinking cursor

I've no idea what this means. Tab what? What lists? And how? Actual cmds, verbage, etc,.

I've the Kier Thomas Pocket guide. I've not thoroughly read it, but it doesn't have the info to solve this problem, I'm guessing. I've skimmed the WUBI section and skimmed the massive information available here. I will peruse, thoroughly study and print this information given time. What I need:
1. The problem above fixed so I can use the OS. I'm not a fan of MS.
2. The proper command (cmd) to shut down 9.10. XP doesn't like cold shutdowns and
MS XP takes forever to chkdsk/r. The computer is not frozen, technically, it just doesn't want to work. I am not adverse to experimenting. I push buttons to find out how this works. Any immediate help would be appreciated. I use 9.10 on a lesser computer, exclusively. Had a problem with it or this, this morning. Somehow, I solved it. LOL
I've no idea what I did, I think?
Please help,
desukane

---

### Post by zkriesse on 2009-12-07
Well you mentioned Wubi. Are you saying that you're dual booting or attempting to?

---

### Post by alzie on 2009-12-07
Try the link here> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1339203](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1339203)

The directions at post #10 seem to be working for people.

Maybe there needs to be a sticky about this until the Wubi/grub issues are resolved.

---

