---
title: "9.04 video driver problem radeon 7200"
date: 2009-06-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by toonamo on 2009-06-18
I recently pulled out a really old video card from my box and installed a not as old video card.

when i first booted the splash screen was fine but once it got to the login screen i got a page with some sync problem. So i went in recovery mode tried to change the configuration files and restarted. Then after splash it said something about not being able to detect the video card so i chose vga mode. it worked fine with out the driver but i had to restart eventually and it happend again. so i went in and did another recovery choose netroot and did dpkg reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg (well something really similar to that). then tried to check the xorg.conf file and i got a error about not being able to load gtk or something to that effect.

how do i remove any previous video drivers and install the one i need. the lspci out is as follows for the VGA card
```
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon R100 QD [Radeon 7200]
```

---

### Post by toonamo on 2009-06-18
-Reboot, and in the grub select failsafe mode (the second option, under normal boot).
-It will ask you if you want to continue normal boot. No, select the option "root prompt with network access" (not exactly that name, but you'll found it)

Now you have to unninstall privative ati drivers. You can do this:

sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx


If this doesn't work, (maybe your drivers were installed via a binary.run) go to the folder where ati drivers are installed doing
cd /usr/share/ati
and there, do this:

./fglrx-uninstall.sh

(put sudo if doesn't work)

This will unninstall the ati drivers.

Then, you must install the free drivers, doing this:

sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-ati xserver-xorg-video-radeon

Then change your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, 

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

After this, you'll get the free drivers. The performance is not perfect, but at least you have a desktop and you can run compiz...

---

