---
title: "Ati hd 3300"
date: 2009-10-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sux2bu101 on 2009-10-24
I am usually pretty good at figuring out how to solve my own Ubuntu issues, thanks to this forum. I made the plunge on my laptop with some issues, but never had to post the problem as the answer was found here in this forum.
 
However, I have not been very successful in solving this problem.
 
I have the TA790GX XE motherboard. So, the ATI HD3300 integrated video card.
 
The problem is when I install the proprietary driver for the video card and reboot the system, the login screen goes all whacky. Sometimes just blank and sometimes with all sorts of "pretty" colors that do not resemble the login screen. The screen seems fine all the way up to the login screen. Once the system gets to the login screen, I cannot do anything other than (hard) shutdown or restart.
 
I have tried to install the following OS, all with the same reslt: Jauntry 9.04 (32 & 64 bit), Karmic 9.10 RC (32 & 64 bit). Note: installations were seperate and always replacing the prevous installation. I would prefer to have 9.10 RC 64 bit. I like the UI of 9.10.
 
I want to use the driver to utilize the HDMI output on the board. I've tried downloading the driver from ATI and the driver in the repository. Any suggestions? 
 
Also, I am fairly new to Linux in general... So if there's any command I need to run from command line, please post it. It will save me from searching for the commands.
 
Thanks for all the help!
 
J

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-10-24
Just a thought, are you connecting via the HDMI port when you're doing the install and installing the drivers?  Or, are you connecting via a DVI port and then switching to the HDMI port after the driver install?

As to 9.10, I've read reports that the ATI drivers aren't working on this yet.  So, that's probably not a good solution at this point.

There's also the distinct possibility that the ATI Linux drivers simply don't support HDMI output.  Have seen a bunch of posts from other folks who also have NOT been able to get HDMI output working with the ATI drivers.

---

### Post by sux2bu101 on 2009-10-24
Anyone... PLZ...

---

### Post by sux2bu101 on 2009-10-24
@ [Mark Phelps]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=311399")

Looks like we were posting at the same time.

Thanks for the reply.  No I dont have the HDMI connected, I have the VGA connected, however, I was intending on using the HDMI after I got everything situated.

I have been reading A LOT of stuff since Thursday... I guess I made a poor choice in a MOBO.


Any suggestions on for new Video card / MOBO options, either Intel or nVIDA chipsets with HDMI options?  Suggestions welcome...  Should I just replace the equipment for something with better support?

Current equipment:

AMD 9750 chip (AM2+ Socket)
8 GB RAM
and all SATA II drives.


Thanks for the help.

Jason

---

### Post by devehf on 2009-11-07
The HDMI port works for my situation.

I am using the default open source driver on an ATI x1200 RS690 chipset embedded in an ASUS board.

Try the Ubuntu driver and not the ATI one.

---

