---
title: "[SOLVED] Trashed Kernel IP routing table, how to fix?"
date: 2008-09-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Kellemora on 2008-09-13
Hi Gang

Have NO idea how on earth I did this, even tried it first on my test computer and it worked just fine there.
My goal was to resolve the host problem shown in the IP table.

Here is what my IP routing table looked like before:

root@HPpav753nUbuntu:/# sudo route -n 
sudo: unable to resolve host HPpav753nUbuntu 
Kernel IP routing table 
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface 
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0 
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0 
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0 
root@HPpav753nUbuntu:/# 

Here is what it looks like now:

root@HPpav753nUbuntu:/# sudo route -n 
Kernel IP routing table 
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface 
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0 
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0 
root@HPpav753nUbuntu:/# 

As you can see, the line 169.254.0.0 is now gone!
Also, file and print sharing 1/2 quit working.
It works from this computer, but not the XP computer now.
Meaning I can SEE the files on the XP machine on the Ubuntu machine, but not the Ubuntu files on the XP machine anymore.

And upon boot up I get a screen that says exactly what the sudo: unable line read in the first IP table.  With Continue or Try again.

The only thing I changed was I took the HPpav753nUbuntu out of the Network Settings HOST line, I think.

My Internet connection is still active and working just fine!

Any ideas how I can get that line back?

Thanks!

TTUL
Gary

---

### Post by The Cog on 2008-09-13
I think the 169.254 address is auto-generated by the avahi-daemon service. Its absence should not matter - its only there for when there is no other address on the machine. The 192.168 address is there and is the one that should be being used.

And the 192.168 stuff looks OK from your post. The default route looks right.

Can you ping the XP box from the Ubuntu box (and back)? 

The failure of sudo to resolve its own host name (your first route output) is a bad sign. You must make sure that your host name is listed in /etc/hosts against the address 127.0.0.1 along with the name localhost. But I guess you fixed that because sudo worked in the later half of hte post.

---

### Post by Kellemora on 2008-09-13
Hi Cog

Here is a copy of my /etc/hosts file:

127.0.0.1 localhost
127.0.1.1 HPpav753nUbuntu.CLASSICHAUS

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1 ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts

It's unchanged from when it WAS working right........

From this computer (Ubuntu), I can not only access the files on the XP machine, but I can also copy files from this machine to the XP machine, just like before.  Nothing has changed when I'm at this machine.

However:  Prior to removing the Host name from the Networks Setting console, I COULD access the Workgroup (didn't show ClassicHaus only the word Workgroup on the XP machine) But upon opening the Workgroup icon, it showed this machine as HPpav753nUbuntu, then upon clicking that Icon that looked like a computer, it would open with a page showing my shared folders.  I could Open those folders, open the documents inside and read them.  I could not write to them until I changed the permission from Read Only to Read and Write here on this machine, then all was A-OK.

EXCEPT:  As you saw, the IP table showed sudo: unamble to resolve host HPpav753nUbuntu

I'm also running Ubunto on another machine I use for testing things first.
Removing the line I did on that machine, did not alter how it worked.
But when I did it on this machine, I lost the ability to see this machine on the XP machine.  But the testing computer I can still see just fine.

I see NO DIFFERENCES in any of the files, nor do I get the error on the other machine.  I've tried to keep both machines identical too, just so I could figure out what I did wrong.

Of everything I've checked so far, the ONLY thing different that I can find between the two machines is the Kernel IP  routing table.
Unless there is a file somewhere I don't know about to look at.

Both machines have the SAME ifconfig -a listings and both machines have the same resolve.conf which is the Internet connection to my cable provider.

That's what has me stumped.  Can't find anything different between the machines other than the IP table listing.

Weird eh!

Thanks!

TTUL
Gary

---

### Post by The Cog on 2008-09-15
You have marked the thread as solved. 
For my curiosity, what was going on?

---

