---
title: "9.04 - 12.10 Fresh Install"
date: 2013-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Gargi on 2013-05-11
I have 9.04 on a system and am trying to discern how to change/upgrade to 12.10. I have a bootable dvd disc with the 12.10, however there is no internal drive, rather an external. The drive is recognized, but I can't get it to boot at startup. When I attempt to boot from the home screen it just goes to the file folders on the disc. Where do I go from here?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-05-11
Gargi; Hi !

What you need to do is boot from the DVD drive. Set in BIOS to boot the DVD as the 1st boot priority. -> boot ubuntu on this DVD and at the greeter screen -> choose "try ubuntu" to check for compatibility with all your hardware.
While in "try ubuntu mode" see what the external disk identification is, for use in the install process verifications.
key combo ctl+alt+t brings up a terminal:
Terminal command:
```
 sudo fdisk -lu
``` yields current partitioning and identifications.
 If all looks and behaves as expected, on the desktop choose "install ubuntu".

Several considerations:
Have you at this time made backups of all your important data ?
Do you know how you want the new install partitioned ? or is the standard install from the wizard acceptable for your needs ?
Are you installing  ubuntu as the sole operating system ? or dual booting ?

I do my installs from the "something else" install option, so not real sure what results from a standard install, I can perceive that with no internal drive one may need to use that "something else" option to install to the external drive.( standard install default is to install to the first internal drive[sda]) In any case make sure of where the installer is going to install "grub" - GRand Unified Bootloader - as you will need "grub" installed to the external drive that you will boot from.[INDENT=3]
Hope this helps

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-05-11
> **Gargi said:**
> ..., however there is no internal drive, rather an external. The drive is recognized, but I can't get it to boot at startup.

Do you have external DVD drive or external Hard Disk?

Also instead of 12.10 you should opt to install the latest 13.04 or the latest LTS 12.04.

---

### Post by Gargi on 2013-05-11
It's an external DVD Drive. I've tried setting the BIOS to boot on startup, but it bypasses it.

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-05-11
If the drive is connected via USB then perhaps BIOS confuses it as USB drive. Try using it as a USB drive... I am not sure if it could work, though.
Why not use a USB drive instead to install Ubuntu?

---

### Post by Gargi on 2013-05-12
Thanks! I'm working on that. One new successful install, but two to go. Regarding above: I started experimenting at 9.04 a few years ago then shelved it. This time I began with 12.10. The current version isn't a big issue, but I hear what you're saying about the latest LTS version. I'm in the process of setting up a new office, and these old pcs I'm experimenting with will likely not be a part of it. Thanks all for the help. At this stage, I'm primarily just trying to become familiar with all these options and their eventual implementation.

---

### Post by Gargi on 2013-05-15
After repeated attempts to install ANY newer version on the above  mentioned pcs, I have made no progress. I've tried both disc and usb  install methods. I believe I've got that part of the process correct,  though whatever I open, I get a "central directory not found" message  when I choose the Wubi.Exe file. I see no other install options in the  folders. It doesn't seem as though this should be that complicated.  Would anyone like to attempt helping me with this via remote? It's a  no-lose situation. These units have no important files on the drives.  I've only used them to have a look at the o/s. Even if I render them  useless, it's of no consequence. My problem is that I am spending way  too much time with this. I know these computers can run a newer version  as at one point I had 12.10 running alongside Windows on one. Windows no  longer exists on either. Any offers for help would be greatly  appreciated. Both systems presently run fine on 9.04.

---

### Post by pootan on 2013-05-15
Wubi.exe is designed to install alongside windows. If you have the correct 12.10.iso image burned to disc then it should boot automatically as long as you have selected boot from disk in your bios. At this point you have to decide if you are trying to upgrade or have 12.10 overwrite your entire disk and have a fresh install. The instructions for both are very different and i'm unsure if upgrading from 9.04 is even possible. I would recommend the fresh install and backing up the home folder if you need any personal data.

You shouldnt need to be looking through the CD/DVD directory either way.

Take a look at the boot from cd/dvd section there. I
[URL="https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootFromCD"]
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootFromCD[/URL]

---

### Post by Gargi on 2013-05-15
Thanks. Yes. Exactly. It would be great to overwrite the disc. 12.10 would be fine. Otherwise, I've realized (and someone mentioned above) that I should use an LTS version. I've tried to locate instructions on overwriting the disc. I have not found the answer. Once I get to that point, I don't know how to make sure it will boot from usb or external drive either. I know how to set the bios, but whether or not it will work is another matter. Thanks for the tip on the Wubi.Exe. I wondered about that, as I've created those discs on this system (a netbook with 12.10 running alongside Windows) in both Windows and Ubuntu. I keep ending up with the same disc image, Wubi included. Sorry I'm so helpless. This is all very new. Having a great time with the 12.10 on this system though. Very impressive. I'll try boot from disc one more time. So far it just bypasses and continues on to boot from the drive.

...still no boot. If someone could lead me to the correct download (I've tried multiple versions), maybe that would put me on the right track. I'd also like to know which disc burning utility I should be using. I have currently installed "Startup Disc Creator" usb version here on Ubuntu, and a similiar utility on Windows (names escapes me at the moment). In Startup Disc Creator for USB, it prompts me to check the box for the Windows boot, and I've tried with/without. Usually, I'm fairly proficient at this type of thing. Frustrated at being so lost.

---

### Post by pootan on 2013-05-15
If you sort the problem with booting from disk first out in your bios if all goes well then the whole process will become pretty painless. I myself have recently installed 12.10 as I like the updated features over LTS 12.04.2 and I do not trust the stability of Ubuntu and some applications so soon after the release of 13.04. You can always upgrade later to 13.04 once you feel comfortable with your install.

Just a tip on my keyboard I can press F12 on the keyboard when the boot screen is showing on the PC and it will let me choose to boot from the first disk or the Cd or even Usb. Try to read the options at the bottom of the screen when your machine boots.

---

### Post by pootan on 2013-05-15
Here is the official downloads for the bootable iso images. If you have Brasero there on your 9.04 that will be fine to burn a DVD or on Windows the default inbuilt right click and burn to CD. You can choose either 12.04(stable) or 13.04 if you like.

[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop)

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-05-15
Since you are able to boot 9.04 and not 12.10 then 'Ubiquity Installer" could be a probable suspect. Try 12.04 [alternate]("http://www.ubuntu.com/download/alternative-downloads"). or you can try [netboot]("https://help.ubuntu.com/12.04/installation-guide/i386/howto-getting-images.html#howto-getting-images-netboot").

Edit: NETBOOT more links:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PXEInstallServer](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PXEInstallServer)
[URL="https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PXEInstallMultiDistro"]https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PXEInstallMultiDistro
[http://www.howtogeek.com/61263/how-to-network-boot-pxe-the-ubuntu-livecd/](http://www.howtogeek.com/61263/how-to-network-boot-pxe-the-ubuntu-livecd/)
[/URL]

---

### Post by Gargi on 2013-05-15
Thanks. Trying another round before work at 10:30. Wish me luck:). That's a good tip with on the F12 key. Checking it out.

---

### Post by Gargi on 2013-05-15
Thankyou! Looking into those links. I'm certainly a rookie at this, but determined.

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-05-15
> **Gargi said:**
> Thankyou! Looking into those links. I'm certainly a rookie at this, but determined.

So am I. I have never tried NetBoot. So if you get stuck and need more help start a new thread with title which says you are trying PXE Boot. Also changing your current title to something more appropriate will attract more help.

Good Luck....

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2013-05-15
say you had 12.10 running alongside windows. does alongside mean wubi? because wubi is sort of running it inside windows. well on a virtual drive.

let's forget about wubi for the moment. and focus on booting the disk. 

there are a few things to consider:
1. some older mashcines can not boot from USB (stick) and simply ingnore the OS on USB. Perhaps it is also a case that they do not boot from USB DVD drive. if they have a floppy drive you can get arround by installing plop boot manager on floppy and the use the floppy to select to boot from USB.
2. make sure by doing md5sum check that your .iso is good. if it's not good system will ignore it and try to find next good disk with OS.: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)
3. if you have older mashcines (you havent mentioned any specs) they have to be new enough to be able to boot PAE kernel which is now default in Ubuntu.
4. since you are using DVD - bad burn can also cause the disc to be skipped. if you use USB stick you can use *unetbootin* or *linuxliveUSB* (on windows) to put the image easilly on it

since you are givign Ubuntu a try out - interface changed (as you can see from pictures) and in once you manage to boot it make sure your GPU is well supported as Unity in 12.10 requires hardware acceleration (if it doesn't get it it will use the CPU mkaing it all quite slow). something to consider using old mashcines....

otherwise for older maschines Xubuntu or Lubuntu might be a better fit. Or other Gnome based options (Classic, Mate...). Xubuntu preety much has the old look and feel.

---

### Post by Gargi on 2013-05-15
Whew! This has me exhausted. Work soon, so I'll have to park this project until later. Thanks all for all the info. I'm sure I'll take time to review asap. I wouldn't feel that it's so urgent, but my son graduates from college this Sunday. We've been talking online for months about building a new home-office network when he gets home. The older pcs in question would just be for test drives and learning. I really hoped I'd have a 2nd working system going by the time we haul him back home on Monday. I wish I could just farm this out to someone so we can get started. There's no one around here that I can consult with, so I'm very appreciative of this online help.  I am out of time at this point.

---

### Post by Gargi on 2013-05-15
The two machines I'm trying to work with no longer have Windows. I'll get the specs off of them this evening. Maybe that'll shed some insight. Thank you very much!

---

