---
title: "Bluenext BN903s gps dongle"
date: 2010-12-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Therimin on 2010-12-12
I have, having successfully sorted out using bluetooth and a gps device with my Asus eepc found a gps that plugs straight into the usb port. I wonder if the unit should work, as it is just missing out the bluetooth bit of the equation. I have had a go but no luck yet, has any one else tried this I wonder? Also I have written a small file to set up gpsd to work with Tango GPS but have failed to sort out not having to use sudo, there must be way but I have yet to find it!

---

### Post by Herman on 2010-12-16
:D Hello Therimin,

I use a USB GPS receiver which simply plugs into my old EeePC 4G 701 by a USB cable.
It has been on many journeys with me, over a lot of rough roads and I'm very happy with it. 

I don't remember doing anything special, (that I'm aware of), for getting my USB GPS receiver to work with TangoGPS.
One peculiar thing I have noticed is, it's best to wait until after the netbook has booted before plugging in the GPS receiver, as the presence of the GPS receiver at boot time seems to confuse the BIOS for some strange reason, other than that it should be pretty simple. 

When you installed TangoGPS it probably installed gpsd automatically, (gpsdaemon), and of course that's the number one requirement for using any kind of GPS receiver.
I can't remember right now for sure whether we need to install [gpsd-clients]("http://gpsd.berlios.de/") package separately, but it won't do any harm to try that if you're still having problems.
```
sudo apt-get install gpsd gpsd-clients
```I good way to check and see if gpsd is receiving any satellite signals is to open xgps, the CLI mode satellite viewer.
```
xgps
```Apart from that there are just a few little tips and tricks that might not be immediately obvious about getting started with TangoGPS, and collecting GPS data in general, just in case any of that might interest you I have already written some posts in the following thread, [SOLVED]                   [usb gps on ubuntu. how to, maybe...]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1430516&highlight=USB+GPS"). :D

---

### Post by Therimin on 2010-12-16
9Thanks for the information, I have read and used some of the information, however the answer seems to have been self inflicted I left the net book running while I went out for a bit, when I returned the gps dongle was flashing (ie locked to sat information)
when I ran the following commands-
sudo killall gpsd
sudo mknod /dev/ttyUSB0 c 188 0
sudo gpsd -N -n -D 2 /dev/ttyUSB &
xgps &
The program found the gps and it all worked. now baffled I set out to discover why. After a lot of messing about I discovered that the problem was nothing to do with the computer it was interference being generated by the flat screen TV looking a bit closer it seems that the electronics of one of the circuits in the TV was ringing at a harmonic of the rx frequency of the dongle and swamping the sat signals.

---

### Post by Herman on 2010-12-17
:D Ok, I'm glad you managed to solve your problem. :)

---

