---
title: "{16.10} able login without a password? able to never set a pw?"
date: 2016-11-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
* go into root without pw as well?

coming from windows 10

--

alt tab question here -- [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342235&p=13565880#post13565880](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342235&p=13565880#post13565880)

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
also pw doesn't work on the login keyring popup

but it works on

* authentication (when you want to update, etc.)
* root

but why doesnt work on login keyring???

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
i've had this problem where the login screen doesn't ask for my password

even after [B]turning automatic login off

[/B]same exact problem as [http://askubuntu.com/questions/581848/how-to-get-ubuntu-to-ask-for-my-password-at-login-screen-again](http://askubuntu.com/questions/581848/how-to-get-ubuntu-to-ask-for-my-password-at-login-screen-again)

why does this happen?? bug?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2016-11-05
Three threads merged.

Although your questions are different, they are sufficiently related to be dealt with in one thread. In the first you appear to be asking how to login without a password, but in the third you appear to have changed your mind and now want to be prompted for your password. Perhaps you need to clarify exactly what you want to achieve and what changes you made to your system between the first and third posts. 

Also - it's not clear to me what you mean by "* go into root without pw as well?" In case you are asking how to login to a GUI as root, you will not get the answer to that here. Please see our login as root forum policy:

[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1486138](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1486138)

There is a link to [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo) in that page. You would be well advised to read that.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
edit, dont want to login as root anymore cos sounds hard to do

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-11-05
If you had read the link that coffecat provided you would know as much as the rest of us. :) The root account is disabled on Ubuntu and derivatives, so basically you can't login as root. What you can do is escalate privileges in order to install packages either from the command line using sudo, or the either the software centre or synaptic via a popup box.

If things aren't working the way you expect them to, I'd suggest you reverse the changes you made to try and get around having to do things without having to enter a password.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
i said, "[COLOR=#000000]edit, dont want to login as root anymore cos sounds hard to do"

the other questions are unanswered [/COLOR]

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-11-05
Now,
when you startup, does the login simply login, or does the login screen show and the password box shows "login", without a field to type the password?.
Or is it something else?

Where did you make the changes to the autologin function?

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
* shows login without a way to type a pw
* settings > user acc

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-11-06
That usually means you're in the nopasswdlogin group.
To double check run
```
id
```
it'll list all groups that your user is in. (see if nopasswdlogin is listed)
to remove run
```
sudo deluser username nopasswdlogin
```
Change username with your user's name.

Also, two alternative methods are 
1)
```
sudo gpasswd -d username nopasswdlogin
```
Again, change username with your user's name.

2)Install the package Users and Groups.
I see 3 apps with that name in the newer software center.
It's the one the mentions Gnome.
It's also known as gnome-system-tools, so from a terminal:
```
sudo apt install gnome-system-tools
```
Users and Groups takes a little more learning in how it works, though.
Which is why I put last in alternatives.

Regardless of which method of removal is used. A logout is required for the changes to take affect.

Hope it helps

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-06
so the 'user' is in the 'nopw' group

* why does this happen? (happened in the linked llink also)

did i change my username or something?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-11-06
Do you mean the user is in the nopasswdlogin group?
(Because nopw does not exist unless it's a group you yourself made)

You can easily add yourself to the nopasswdlogin group when you play around with the password setting in User Account
Step 1 click on the password field
[ATTACH=CONFIG]272008[/ATTACH]
Step 2 toggle the Action field
[ATTACH=CONFIG]272007[/ATTACH]
Step 3 Change field to log in without a password
[ATTACH=CONFIG]272006[/ATTACH]
then simply set the password and click change adds you to the group.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-06
i dont have the 'action' box anymore i dunno why

i set 'automatic login' to off

so im guessing it would take the 'user' out of the 'nopasswdlogin' group?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-11-06
You don't get the Action box until you click the Unlock button in the top panel of the user accounts window.

And no, automatic login and nopasswdlogin are different, so turning off automatic login does not remove the user from nopasswdlogin if the user is in the nopasswdlogin group..

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-21
* [goal] - so i can set no password for the entire computer?
** & computer automatically login?

*** and never need to remember or enter a pw again?

--

i put no pw
& auto login

and now
i can't 'auth' anymore?? - it doesnt work

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-11-22
If you never need to install new software nor need to change any setting in existing software, then you don't need a password.
But sadly you would want to do those things, so you'll need to reset a password.

Note that nopasswdlogin has nothing to do with no password, only that it means you can login into the system without a password.

I think there was a chance that when you set the no password for login in User Account, you did not also set a password in the password field and therefore the 
system saw you did not entry a password and set the account as disabled, since, a user with no password is a disabled user. Ubuntu does not do blank passwords.

But regardless of what happened...

Simple method to fix the user's password is to reboot into recovery mode.
Pleas read this: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword")
Please note that newer system running in UEFI mode will use the ESC key to access the grub menu. Older systems running older BIOS will use the SHIFT key.

(I include this particular link because of the pictures. I find it helps)

I'm not sure any of this will make sense, hope it does...

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-22
omg... if ubu doesnt do blank pw,

and disables the user account if you have no pw set

--

then why does it let me have no pw....................

--

if only it worked like macos/windows/chromeos


---

this [howto: reset pw]

is not updated for 16.04 btw

* isn't there a [concise] wiki for these basic stuff in 2016 already?.......

--

resetted with [https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-reset-lost-root-password-on-ubuntu-16-04-xenial-xerus-linux](https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-reset-lost-root-password-on-ubuntu-16-04-xenial-xerus-linux)

but after it logs in

'auth' still doesn't work

----

* how in the world is anyone suppose to know that you have to click 'unlock' -- which you said here -- [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342236&p=13566726#post13566726](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342236&p=13566726#post13566726)
** to have the login screen ask you for your pw??

macos/windows/chromeos all don't have this problem


----

* when you turn automatic login to 'off' -- it's suppose to not have you in the 'nopw group' -- like what a normal OS is suppose to do..............................................

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-11-22
Ubuntu is a Linux-based OS.

Linux is neither Mac, Windows or Chrome.  If your first OS were Linux, you might complain that Windows has a "problem".

If you want to use Linux but chafe at the answers to your questions, perhaps another course of action would be less painful.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-22
* need a basic guide that has basic info like ubuntu needs a pw to prevent all the problems above & in all the other threads

that's all we need, that would solve everything, * where is that basic guide with basic info like passwords found?

---

### Post by CantankRus on 2016-11-22
> **linuxhard said:**
> * need a basic guide that has basic info like ubuntu needs a pw to prevent all the problems above & in all the other threads

that's all we need, that would solve everything, * where is that basic guide with basic info like passwords found?
Perhaps you already have one.
Type **help** in the dash.
[ATTACH=CONFIG]272303[/ATTACH]

You need to take the time to learn how things work before charging ahead
without really knowing what you are doing or saying.
Most people on these forums have years of knowledge and will gladly help with whatever you ask.
...but when I say "ask" I mean write formed sentences which are easily read without abbreviations and with all the relevant details.
This isn't Twitter. 
There's no character limit.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-11-22
> resetted with [https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-reset...al-xerus-linux](https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-reset...al-xerus-linux)

but after it logs in

'auth' still doesn't work


You never used or had the root password, so resetting it is pointless.
You needed to follow the guide I linked to reset your own password.
Your user will be an admin user and will (or should) have root auth access through sudo.
RootSudo reference here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo")

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-12-07
* the pw thing got fix, and i removed myself out of the 'nopw' group
** im very sure the computer had a root pw at various points in time cos i used it in 'bash' and other things

--

for the basic guide that is needed --

i read through every single thing in the 'help'

i do not believe it says that ubu needed a pw or it will disable your acc and cause so many problems

i may have missed it, but where? if i did?

--

if that basic info like other basic info is in there,
* then question answered

if not,
* still need basic guide for basic stuff that isn't a problem in every other os in the known humankind

*** because the point is that it shouldn't be a problem and this is a clearly very bad UX, UI on ubu's part

--

need guide to basic info like about the pw

---

