---
title: "Are you an XORG.CONF file Expert???"
date: 2009-04-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by suomalainen on 2009-04-10
Ubunteros,

I'm trying to set up a dual monitor/display system and it appears that either I'm doing this wrong or I simply misunderstood the capabilities of Ubuntu??? Perhaps someone can help/assist/educate me????

Before going into detail here is some overview on my software and hardware:

Ubuntu 8.04 LTS 64 bit
NVIDIA Driver Version: 173.14.12
EVGA 256-P2-N761-TR GeForce 8600 GTS 256MB 128-bit GDDR3 PCI Express x16 HDCP Ready SLI Supported Video Card - Retail
Two {2} HP 19 inch flat panel monitors model w1907 {Resolution 1440X900 @ 60 Hz}
*** XORG.CONF*** contents listed below.

I have been able to successfully use the NVIDIA X Server Settings to get my monitor to do three things, these include:

1. Cloning of display content exactly the same on both monitors
2. TwinView
3. Disable a monitor


WHAT I'D LIKE TO BE ABLE TO DO......................

I would like to be able to have both monitors act as independent desktops/workspaces. The TwinView, is not the appropriate resolution for this and really only combines 2 monitors into one desktop.... This type of environment is difficult for me to operate within.

Does anyone know exactly how to make 2 monitors work as independent workspace/desktop?????

If I understood correctly from the material I have researched this may need the "xorg.conf" file to be edited. If this is the case then that poses another dilemma as I don't possess that level of experience. Below I have listed the file contents of the xorg.conf file for your review.

Would anyone like to help me resolve this issue?????

Thank You!!!

Suomalainen



# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by anaconda on 2009-04-10
I just selected "separate x-window" from nvidia-settings

And I got the second monitor to be a separate x-window.. 

But I didnt like it, because you couldn't move applications from one screen to the other, so I changed it to twinview.

But just search from the nvidia-settings and you should find the separate x-window.

---

### Post by suomalainen on 2009-04-10
> **anaconda said:**
> But I didnt like it, because you couldn't move applications from one screen to the other, so I changed it to twinview.

Does this mean that you also cannot launch programs from within this second monitor???? Or does the second monitor indeed have it's own launch panel.

If you can clarify anaconda that would be great!


Thanks!

---

### Post by suomalainen on 2009-04-10
UPDATE

I was trying to set each monitor as a "Separate X Screen" but this caused a "Cannot Apply" message as soon as I clicked the apply button.

I've attached screenshots so everyone can see my settings. Maybe something just isn't set right?

Ideally, I'd like to have two desktops where I can drag and drop open windows, files etc.... Some say this cannot be done but I have seen on YouTube that it can be done... It's just simply knowing how to do it....

Expert advice appreciated!!! Thank You!

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-04-10
You need to log into nvidia-settinsg with root access, for some reason the application does not do it by default like it should.

```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

best thing to do it go to edit menus (right click on application on the panel), and edit the nvidia settins command to have **gksu **to the front of the command.

also you should try using the 177 or 180 version of the Nvidia driver. It will work with your card, I have an Nvidia 8600GT. It should give better results.

---

### Post by suomalainen on 2009-04-10
Like I said before....

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-04-10
Well, the gksu needs to be separated by a space from the rest of the content.  With no space, it assumes it is all one long string, so it's going to look for a file with the name of "gksu/....", when what you want is "gksu /....".  I cannot tell you if it will let you put that in the string in the window or not - it may not like essentially 2 strings (gksu as one string and the rest as the other).  For some things in Linux you can quote them to get them to work:  "gksu /...." but I don't know if it would work in this case.  You could always do it from the command line with:

gksu nvidia-settings

as LowSky suggested.  Be sure to leave a space between gksu and nvidia-settings and it should run from the command line.

To do it in the window, it may require the sh command as well - I had to do that once at someone's suggestion, but I don't remember what the format it right now.  If the above doesn't work, post back and I'll go searching for it.

Let us know what happens!

Dave :)

---

### Post by suomalainen on 2009-04-12
Any XORG.CONF experts out there today?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-04-12
Did you TRY what was suggested?  You seem to ignore it due to another post with which you had difficulty.  Continued lack of response to suggestions, and lack of reply of what happened - even if it FAILED, will result in people ignoring your pleas.  It will also result in reporting to forum monitors.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2009-04-12
There has been a lot of good advice given in this thread so far and it seems correct to me, I do suggest you try it, paying attention to the details.

You should also consider checking out [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaMultiMonitors](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaMultiMonitors)

There are screenshots and everything there, and you might be particularly interested in the Setup and the Saving sections.  You would choose "Separate X window" instead of "TwinView".  Also, I suggest unchecking the "Merge with existing file" when saving, as this might help prevent the error you posted above.  I re-wrote that page myself last year and added those screenshots using a Nvidia 8600 GT in Hardy Heron, so it should be nearly identical to what you want.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-04-12
> **suomalainen said:**
> Like I said before....

no like I said before

```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

or to edit the command for the system menu

```
gksu /usr/bin/nvidia-settings
```
[B]
/usr/bin/[/B] isn't really required for this command

---

