---
title: "14.04 - FileZilla, transfer to NTFS - says no room left on disk"
date: 2014-05-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-21
On 1 of my Pi XBMC media centers I have a 2TB external drive (USB).  I've used filezilla before to transfer things from Ubuntu to it after I've used Handbrake, set up the .nfo file, etc., including last week before I messed up my entire laptop.  Tonight I tried a transfer again (this time a folder versus a single file).  It "aborted" and said no space left.  I tried the same thing with ssh and got the same message.  Plugged the disk in to my laptop and it was I expected - a little over 500MB used, 1.4+TB free.  I've been having problems with the video playback "pausing" on that particular media center, and I'm starting to suspect it may be the drive (I read last week where some of the WD external USB drives haven't held up real well for prolonged use as the primary drive, not a backup drive). 

So.......

(1) could some sort of disk error result in the no space left message yet the entire space be there when I plug it in to my laptop?

(2) I believe the S.M.A.R.T. information is supposed to be platform independent.  Is there a way, while the drive is plugged in to my laptop and running Ubuntu, to view the S.M.A.R.T. data so I can see if the drive is failing or if it's the enclosure and it's electronics?

Thanks!

---

### Post by sandyd on 2014-05-21
You can view smart data with smartmontools

```
sudo smartctl -a /dev/sda
``` should display the smart data on /dev/sda

To do a self-test of the drive, run
```

sudo smartctl -t long /dev/sda
```

You can view the results with
```
sudo smartctl -l selftest /dev/sda
```

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-21
I installed gsmartcontrol and the initial views without doing anything show zero errors.  I ran a quick self-test and it showed zero errors.  I now have the extended self-test running.  I'm suspecting it's the USB interface in the enclosure.  It's supposed to be USB 3.0, and even on my Ubuntu desktop with XBMC it still got the pauses.  Every other drive I have used has worked, so I'm suspecting the electronics in the controller.  This could cause transfer problems where the drive itself wouldn't show errors but the port would be trying to recover from an error.  If the extended test passes, I think I'll know then to get a new enclosure and dump the original WD case and put the drive itself in another external USB self-powered enclosure.

Does that sound about right?

Thanks, sandyd!

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-21
Thanks sandyd!

I installed gsmartcontrol.  The first time I started it I checked the various logs, etc., and no errors showed.  I ran the quick self-test and nothing showed.  I have the extended test running now.  If that completes ok it would indicate to me the drive is probably OK and that it's the enclosure, be it the USB interface or whatever, that is causing me problems.  At that point I would consider buying a new A/C powered enclosure for the drive.  Does that make sense?  Is there any way to stress test the data transfer interfaces - i.e., drive to enclosures internals, enclosures internals/USB to host USB?

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-22
Well, the extended test completed at 40% with a read failure.  So, I guess I should be finding a new drive pretty dang quick and hope I can copy this thing.  Is there a tool in Ubuntu to backup an external disk that is nothing more than a big NTFS partition?  This is the results I was reading on the net last week.  Don't want to bash WD, as I've used their drives (and in the old days, wrote drivers for their disk controller chip) for almost "forever" (okay, since the 1980's ;) ).  However, this does match the complaints on the net:  there seems to be a series of their external hard drives that work for backup but fail under continous use.

So, I guess it's time to mark this as "Solved" since I know it's a hardware problem :(

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-05-22
> **squakie said:**
>  Is there a tool in Ubuntu to backup an external disk that is nothing more than a big NTFS partition? 
you too? what is going on with WD drives lately? :D

i just got a new drive and pland to do this (since i have 3 partitions): [http://clonezilla.org/show-live-doc-content.php?topic=clonezilla-live/doc/03_Disk_to_disk_clone](http://clonezilla.org/show-live-doc-content.php?topic=clonezilla-live/doc/03_Disk_to_disk_clone) to move it all to new disk.

otherwise the tool is partclone or something like that (i keep forgeting the name).

otherwise redo backup is easy to use backup tool. only it seems it's really focused on backup. works well though.


one part i find interesting with Clonezilla (debian version) - they have "stable" version yet it is based on Debian "Sid" :o

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-22
And it gets worse......a NTFS "drive" and Windows 8.1 doesn't see it! ;)

I wish I had read the net reviews (perhaps there weren't any at the time?) for these external drives as they do seem to have a significant failure rate.  I thought it was something with my software and just let it go but now I think it may be out of warranty - crap!

EDIT:  forgot to put what I was replying for in the first place!   Thanks mastablasta for that info!  I have to wait until after the 1st of the month before I can consider any type or replacement drive, but I will sure put those tools you mentioned to good use!!  BTW - I hate asking a "recommend me this" type of hardware question, but have you found any self-powered external drives that hold up better than this WD has for me?

Thanks again! ;)
Dave

---

### Post by sandyd on 2014-05-22
I just use a hot-swap hard drive dock or a external enclosure
[http://www.newegg.com/Hard-Drive-Enclosures/SubCategory/ID-92](http://www.newegg.com/Hard-Drive-Enclosures/SubCategory/ID-92)

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-05-23
yes the dock can also be a solution.

i am using a 2TB Samsung on the Pi at the moment. it has it's own power supply and so far so good. it's been in use for about 6 or 7 months. sometimes i use torrent on it. it is a bit big box, but that's ok. it's set behind TV so i don't have to look at it. the good part is that they sold it in a sale and it cost me less than a built in 2TB drive.

otherwise i think there are only two hard drive manufacturers left anyway. now if i am not mistaking they are WD and Seagate. but then there are OEM's . i read some reviews on 1TB ***internal drives ***(which i bought) and people talked in those test and reviews comments about others as well. but anyway long story short - it depends on the year of manufacturing the drive, series etc. otherwise Hitachi seem to have low failure rate. toshiba is good on power consumpiton. WD & seagate seem to be doing well on performance.

all in all it's hard to say. they shouldn't fail so fast anyway. and it is best to check some current tests and reviews.

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2014-05-24
surprised to see not one person asked if the drive was mounted properly on the Pi, you would get a no room left on device error message if you thought you were writing a file to /mnt/storage/ IF your external drive wasn't mounted properly. I personally just picked up a WD RED 2TB NAS drive and I love it, no complaints. I also picked up 1 WD Green 1TB drive and have heard horror stories about them failing but it only contains movies on it for my Crystalbuntu 2.0 media player in the family room.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-25
Drive is mounted properly - never had problems with that.  The problem is the drive - it failed so many times in copying that all the recoveries where saying it was going to take 171 hours!  It finally got past those errors and finished in about 8 hours - and I only copied the 370gb I didn't already have backed up.  At least it's sitting in a folder on another drive now.  After I got it copied I formatted (not the "Quick" format) in Windows 8.1 and that completed.  Back to Ubuntu and run the drive diagnostics:  when I did it before it completed the quick test but failed on the extended test, now it fails immediately in the quik test.  So the drive is hosed.  I hope your WD holds up.  Mine is a 2TB My Book Essentials USB3 drive - and for the external drives made around the same time by WD there is higher than normal (considerably) failure rate.

At any rate, since this turned out to be a dead drive, I can close the thread now.

Thanks everyone!

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-05-26
my bro got one of the WD green horror stories. no warning...

anyway i don't know if mount is ok or not. but if disk is bad its data have to be moved. 

i would just like to say i performed that disk to disk cloning in clonezilla (beginners mode only) and all went well. and i was surpised how fast it went. well max speed of the sata... :-)

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-26
I've got to wait a while before I can buy a replacement drive - disability kind of sucks ;)  At least I eventually got saved what wasn't backed up, thank goodness!

Thanks for your help/comments mastablasta - I was glad to see someone else had heard of the WD woes!

---

