---
title: "8.04 livecd install problem"
date: 2008-07-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by zomw on 2008-07-10
I'm currently a bit puzzled by the install feature of the 8.04 livecd. Whenever I get to the step where I have to choose how to install it I choose manual instead of guided because I don't want to use my entire hard drive for the install (because I also have XP installed). Along with XP being installed on the drive, I have already set up three partitions for my install; one for /, one for /home, and one for swap space. When I used the 7.04 livecd to install 7.04, the manual choice allowed me to pick the partitions on my hd I wanted Ubuntu installed on to.

**However, on the 8.04 livecd, the manual choice is not letting me do this, only showing the hd itself and not any of its current partitions.** The only thing the partition manager on the livecd will let me do is set up a completely new partition table on the hd, which is not what I want to do considering I have already set the correct partitions up for the install.

Thanks in advance for any help with this problem.

---

### Post by acelin on 2008-07-10
I would suggest isntalling from Wubi. Someone else might suggest differently, but that would be the easiest alternative.

---

### Post by kaldor on 2008-07-10
I used WUBI a while ago. Don't use it, it isn't Ubuntu to it's full potential.

All I had to do was slide a bar to choose how much of my hard drive to partition when I was on the CD.

---

### Post by acelin on 2008-07-10
Dont use it? I am using it. It was easy, fast, and hasnt slowed me down. :D
Haha nice... glad to see it wasnt a serious problem then!

---

### Post by zomw on 2008-07-10
Thanks for the suggestions, but I am still not able to select the partitions I have already set up on my hd to install 8.04 on to. I don't see how the livecd installer/partitioner could be conflicted, because I burned the cd on my drive's lowest speed. Just in case though, I'll check the cd for defects and get back to you guys.

Anyone else?

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-07-10
while running a LIve CD session use gparted (Partition Editor) located under Sytem> Admin. Partion your hard drive from there. Then click install and go to manual set up just to make sure it uses the correct partitions.

---

### Post by zomw on 2008-07-10
I checked the cd for errors and found none. LowSky, I tried your suggestion but for some odd reason Gparted, like the installer, shows that my hard drive has no partitions at all and is completely unallocated. What it should show is my Windows XP installation, my storage partition, and of course the three partitions I have already set up to install ubuntu on to.

**Does anyone know why the Ubuntu livecd is detecting, both in the installer and Gparted, that my hard drive is completely unallocated free space with no partitions?** Should I try the alternate install cd?

---

### Post by avtolle on 2008-07-10
I would suggest that you try the alternate install cd.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-07-10
Are you sure Windows is still on there? can you boot into Windows. Do you have other hard drives installed? If anything disconnect them and try to install

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-07-10
> Along with XP being installed on the drive, I have already set up three partitions for my install; one for /, one for /home, and one for swap space. When I used the 7.04 livecd to install 7.04, the manual choice allowed me to pick the partitions on my hd I wanted Ubuntu installed on to.

My idea, the easy way to go, is just to "delete" all of the partitions you've built so you end up with nothing but your Windows partition(s) and one large blank (unformatted) space.

Then just choose "Guided - use the largest continuous free space" to install.

You can then later on create your seperate home partition:

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/separatehome](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/separatehome)

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-07-10
This would have been the easy way to go:

[http://apcmag.com/how_to_dual_boot_windows_xp_and_linux_xp_installed_first.htm](http://apcmag.com/how_to_dual_boot_windows_xp_and_linux_xp_installed_first.htm)

---

### Post by zomw on 2008-07-10
I tried the alternate install cd, and it gave me the same results as the livecd. The partitioner showed that I had no partitions on my hard drive and would only let me use the whole hd to install Ubuntu. 

LowSky, yes, Windows is still on the drive and I can boot into it (I'm typing this on that installation right now). I do have another hard drive installed though (an external one). I will disconnect that, try the installer again, and post how it goes when I'm done.

kansasnoob, I will try your suggestion if I cannot get anything else to work. I just don't know if doing that will help considering the installer does not see any partitions on the hard drive at all, not even my Windows and storage partitions.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-07-10
> kansasnoob, I will try your suggestion if I cannot get anything else to work. I just don't know if doing that will help considering the installer does not see any partitions on the hard drive at all, not even my Windows and storage partitions.

What are you using to partition?

I'd love to see a Gparted image of your drive.

---

### Post by zomw on 2008-07-10
I disconnected every device from my computer except for a keyboard and mouse and tried the installer again, to no avail. 

kansasnoob, I used Acronis Disk Director to partition the drive. The Gparted image of my drive would not be too interesting because the only thing Gparted shows when I launch it is a completely unallocated 320GB hard drive. I'll post an image of it if you really want me to though (can I take screenshots on the livecd?).

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-07-10
> The Gparted image of my drive would not be too interesting because the only thing Gparted shows when I launch it is a completely unallocated 320GB hard drive.

Well, that's related to the problem. To "sort of" quote Forrest Gump: "Gparted and Ubuntu are like peas and carrots". One of the most essential parts of the Ubuntu installer is Gparted!

You can boot any Ubuntu live Cd and use gparted from the CD to do partitioning, set mount points, etc.

If Gparted doesn't read the partitions right Ubuntu can't either.

---

### Post by zomw on 2008-07-10
Thanks for the info kansasnoob. Do you know how I can get Gparted working correctly?

---

### Post by zomw on 2008-07-10
bump

---

### Post by zomw on 2008-07-11
Does anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-07-11
post the output of
```

sudo fdisk -l

```

---

### Post by zomw on 2008-07-11
Here is a screenshot of Gparted, the installer, and the output of sudo fdisk -l:

[[IMG]http://img254.imageshack.us/img254/5283/threewindowshj3.th.png[/IMG]](http://img254.imageshack.us/my.php?image=threewindowshj3.png)

Notice how Gparted shows the drive completely unallocated, the sudo fdisk -l command is detecting all of the partitions (?), and the installer will only let me use the entire drive to do the guided install. Another screenshot I should have got but forgot to was the installer window after I choose to do a manual installation (which is what I want to do). This screenshot would have shown that the installer detected that my main hard drive is 100% free space, with no partitions. What is also strange is that the file explorer detects all of the partitions on my main hard drive and all usb memory devices I have plugged in. I can read from my NTFS partitions and read and write from the linux partitions I have already set up for the install as well as any FAT32 partitions there are just like I should be able to.

So, my question is, why are Gparted and the installer detecting that my main hard drive has no partitions and is all free space when the sudo fdisk -l command and the file explorer both detect the partitions just fine?

---

### Post by rainserpent on 2008-07-11
Hi Zomw,

The only thing I can think of is that maybe your partitions are logical instead of manual? It is interesting that you put FAT32 partitions in. You know that Ubuntu can write to NTFS right? Your drive is really divided.

When I first installed Ubuntu, I did a clean install of Windows XP. Then I did a thorough clean and defragment. One thing that I found is that Windows should be installed first and that you can't write over any of its partition.

I use gparted as well. I find that it is very easy to use. Good luck!

---

### Post by zomw on 2008-07-11
rainserpent,

The three partitions I set up for Ubuntu 8.04 are logical, but other that those, they are all primary. Can I not install Ubuntu on to logical partitions? When I installed 7.04 I set it up on two logical partitions and it worked out alright. Can Ubuntu write to NTFS natively now? When I had 7.04 installed, I don't remember being able to. That is the only reason I set up the 10GB FAT32 partition at the end of the drive though; so I could exchange files between Ubuntu and Windows XP/Vista. Yeah, my drive is pretty divided, but 200/320GB of it is taken up by my NTFS storage partition.

Thanks for the good luck, I think I need it right now :)

---

### Post by zomw on 2008-07-11
bump

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-07-12
what happens if you enter fdisk?
```

sudo fdisk /dev/sda

```

---

### Post by zomw on 2008-07-12
hyper_ch, I already posted the output of that command in a screenshot after you suggested it at the bottom of page 2. 

But what's strange is that I finally got Ubuntu 8.04 to install on the partitions I set up. I really don't know how doing this would change anything, but I deleted a FAT32 partition on the end of my hard drive and out of nowhere the installer detected all of the partitions on my hard drive. By deleting the FAT32 partition I wasn't even trying to fix the installer problem. Strange, huh?

Thanks to everyone who gave me suggestions/info! :)

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-07-12
no, you did not ;)

---

### Post by zomw on 2008-07-13
Oh, sorry. I thought that those two commands did pretty much the same thing. Thanks for your help though :)

---

