---
title: "Screen Resolution Too High"
date: 2009-09-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by megadiputs on 2009-09-02
I installed ubuntu without problems.  When it first booted I clicked to install/activate proprietary drivers (ati).  After restart the resolution is too high for my monitor.  I searched the forums and found numerous posts on this, but no solution (other than plugging in a better monitor).  I have tried sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver.xorg, but it seemed to make matters worse (can't even get to console now).  I have also tried editing xorg.conf to change the resolution (as several posts suggest this), but none of the options listed were in my xorg file. I'm using Ubuntu 9.04 - the Jaunty Jackalope - released in April 2009.  Here is my xorg file if it helps:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by sully101 on 2009-09-03
Try adding

Option "PreferredMode" "1024x768@60"

or similar to the Monitor section in your xorg.conf

---

