---
title: "10.10 boot disc doesnt work"
date: 2010-12-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by UncleAlan on 2010-12-21
I am having trouble with a boot disc not working properly. I tried to install 10.10 from a boot disc but it did not work. Them I tried a 10.04  boot disc I had used on my other pc and this worked, thus proving the pc was functioning. Next I put the 10.10 boot disc in and restarted the pc. I got a screen that said Ubuntu and a row of dots, some whirring from the cd and then sound and the screen had a bright light and a very tiny watch and that is all it does!

I f I put the boot disc in a pc that is running I can see it has various folders and files which would suggest it has burnt correctly from the info on Ubuntus download sight. I burnt it to disc on a Ubuntu PC using the settings as instructed and at slow speed. 

I was expecting the disc on insertion to ask me if I wanted to try it or install it but it doesnt do this. I would like advice as to the best way forward Rather than waste another cd.

Thanks

Alan

---

### Post by alzie on 2010-12-21
It looks like you may need to burn a new CD.  Remember to burn at the lowest speed your burner will allow.  I'd check the checksum to make sure the download is good.  The instructions for that are here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToSHA256SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToSHA256SUM)

The other option would be to use the 10.04 disc to install.  It is supported for 3 years as a long term support release.

I hope this helps.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-12-21
> **UncleAlan said:**
> I am having trouble with a boot disc not working properly. I tried to install 10.10 from a boot disc but it did not work. Them I tried a 10.04  boot disc I had used on my other pc and this worked, thus proving the pc was functioning. Next I put the 10.10 boot disc in and restarted the pc. I got a screen that said Ubuntu and a row of dots, some whirring from the cd and then sound and the screen had a bright light and a very tiny watch and that is all it does!

I f I put the boot disc in a pc that is running I can see it has various folders and files which would suggest it has burnt correctly from the info on Ubuntus download sight. I burnt it to disc on a Ubuntu PC using the settings as instructed and at slow speed. 

I was expecting the disc on insertion to ask me if I wanted to try it or install it but it doesnt do this. I would like advice as to the best way forward Rather than waste another cd.

Thanks


Alan
# You can either burn another cd or install 10.04 and upgrade:
sometimes cd's just do not get a good burn, and that is that.
# install 10.04 and and set repositories in software sources:
Then run:
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
``````
sudo sed -i 's/lucid/maverick/g' /etc/apt/sources.list && sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude dist-upgrade 

```You will now have 10.10, is up to you.

---

### Post by UncleAlan on 2010-12-23
Thanks Alzie, in the end I didnt do this but I am going to look at this as I think it is a useful tool for future use.

---

### Post by UncleAlan on 2010-12-23
Garvinrick4 I did this. It certainly gave the pc a workout butI stood back and let it do it as if I knew what I was doing!!!! Now this PC has 10.10. Thanks for taking the trouble to help.
 
Both of the Help replies were helpful and appreciated. Alan

---

