---
title: "9.04 won't hold nvidia res settings"
date: 2009-05-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by trampintransit2 on 2009-05-04
Right, I'm pretty out my depth here!!! I've just installed 9.04 to replace XP, but the screen defaults to 800x600 I think i installed the nvidia x driver, though i cant remeber how now!!. If i go system>preferences >display i get asked to use the driver vendors tool. In the nvidia x server settings window, i choose 'x server display config' and set resolution from 'auto' to '1024x768'. My monitor now looks peachy. But at each now switch on i'm back to square one, the x server display config has reset to auto and shows 800x600. How do i get it to hold the settings?:confused:

---

### Post by bnjmnlrd on 2009-05-04
ditto, same issue. although I did not have this problem prior to the most recent patch. I'm using the hardy heron version. I loaded and it went very well. I just may get hooked on the OS. But as of now, I can't deal with a resolution of 640x480. and since I"m a noob I don't know where to go to see what might have loaded that caused the problem.

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-05-04
to get the settings to "stick"....you may need to run the nvidia-settings as root.

open a terminal (applications > accessories > terminal) and type or copy/paste the following into it:

```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```after you make the change,  click "save to x-configuration file".  then close out the nvidia-settings and restart...see if that works.

hope it helps.

---

### Post by trampintransit2 on 2009-05-04
BINGO!  well done that man! Cheers Fooman, i'm up and running. looks like i've got plenty of learning to do in my shift away from microsoft!

---

