---
title: "13.04 samba server, xmbc, xmbc on android"
date: 2013-06-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-02
I set up a new system with 13.04 and am using Samba for sharing as there are 2 other (I got rid of my Windows 8 laptop - too big a pain all the way around) computers that will use this as well.

Given:
[LIST]
[*]desktop Ubuntu 13.04 box with Samba and simple shares 
[*]Google Nexus 7 Android tablet with XMBC installed 
[*]laptop 1 - Windows 7 but not powered on permanently 
[*]laptop 2 - Windows XP Pro but not powered on permanently 
[/LIST]

Have:
[LIST]
[*]external esata drive on the desktop 
[*]file system on that drive is ext4 
[*]the file system mounts to folder /home/xmbc-shares 
[*]3 subfolders in that file system:  pictures  videos  music 
[*]the file system mounts with everyone allowed all access 
[*]Samba on the ubuntu desktop box using the default smb.conf file 
[*]the 3 above shares were defined via the Samba config GUI with everyone having full access, guests allowed and assigned to user "nobody" 
[/LIST]

Want:
[LIST]
[*]Raspberry Pi's running openelec XMBC (linux) to be able to access shares on the desktop ubuntu box so the Pi's are xbmc for a TV 
[*]both laptops to be able to access shares on the desktop ubuntu box, both for xmbc if the user desires, and to create/view/delete folders and files in the 3 shares on the desktop ubuntu box 
[*]Nexus (Android), with xmbc running, to be able to access videos, pictures, music from the desktop ubuntu box 
[/LIST]

Some of you may have seen a previous thread I had open on a very similar thing that ended up being bad for me and bad for the excellent user who was trying their best to help me.  I am starting afresh with the above information and definitions of what I want to do.

First problem:
[LIST]
[*]installed XMBC for Android on the Nexus tablet, then went to XMBC and tried to configure the SMB information under system/system.  It wants a WINS server address - I don't have a WINS server and was under the impression that this was not something that would normally be done by enabling it (and all the configuration headaches that come with it) in the smb.conf file.  I don't even get so far as some sort of security error because it doesn't have the WINS server. 
[/LIST]

Question:
[LIST]
[*]what do I need to do such that the ubuntu desktop (the only system besides the various Raspberry Pi's that will be powered on) is able to be accessed via XMBC on the tablet? 
[/LIST]

I believe if I can get this working on the tablet it would be the same for everything else.  At first, going to network on the ubuntu desktop (also the Samba server) showed my box and Windows network.  Under Windows it showed the defaults as I have left them - workgroup of WORKGROUP.  However, none of the shares showed because of permission errors.  I went back to the GUI config for Samba and just pretty much opened the shares up completely, then restart Samba.  After that I was able to see and access the shares via Windows network (even though on the same system, I figure it's still going through Samba).

Here's the other thing:  I probably made myself look TOO stupid to the excellent user who was trying to help me in the other thread.  A lot of things I already knew and I was getting very frustrated rehashing "old news", and they were getting frustrated with me because I was taking the input, playing a little, then setting everything back - they thought I was destroying the path of the thread when all I did was do some testing and put everything back where it needed to be for the next step in the thread.   So, can we try to avoid causing frustration for both of us?  Ask me what you need - I'll give you my best answer and if more is needed then post the command you'd like me to run.  I'll try to ask as intelligent of a question as I can - if my understanding of something is wrong please tell me and we can move on from there.  I want to this to work out and I don't want to cause you frustration (or get frustrated myself for lack of progress).

I know this is probably something simple to someone.  I also know that I was advised that in a linux-onlyu environment I could just use NFS, but I also need the Windows 7 and Windows XP laptops to have access when they want it, and everything I've read so far on the Raspberry Pi's indicate whatever OS choice I use it will be using Samba.

Since to me Ubuntu and Android Samba shares for XMBC seems like the weirdest one I just thought to start there.  I don't have to bother anyone with their laptops this way either. (plus I can watch my DVD's on my tablet while in bed this way ;) ).

Thanking you in advance.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-02
well, I guess it was as simple as rebooting!  Rebooted the server and the tablet, started XMBC on the tablet, went to videos/files/add and selected smb.  Let it do it's thing for a couple of minutes and Bingo!  I'm playing a movie from the server on my tablet right now as I do this message from my server/desktop.  Yeah! ;)

---

