---
title: ".deb install error"
date: 2009-01-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mriman on 2009-01-23
I need some assistance, I am trying to install the driver for my Soundblaster Card and I am getting the following error when trying to install the .deb file:

(Reading database ... 133058 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking xfidrv-linux-public-us-1.00 (from .../xfidrv-linux-public-us-1.00_20090123-1_i386.deb) ...
dpkg: error processing /home/mriman/Desktop/XFiDrv_Linux_Public_US_1.00/xfidrv-linux-public-us-1.00_20090123-1_i386.deb (--install):
 trying to overwrite `/lib/modules/2.6.27-9-generic/kernel/sound/soundcore.ko', which is also in package linux-image-2.6.27-9-generic
Errors were encountered while processing:
 /home/mriman/Desktop/XFiDrv_Linux_Public_US_1.00/xfidrv-linux-public-us-1.00_20090123-1_i386.deb

Can anyone let me know what I am doing wrong?

Thanks

---

### Post by dnRoyston on 2009-01-23
Did you install the .deb file using sudo?

---

### Post by mriman on 2009-01-23
I double-clicked the .deb file contained in the main folder, and it begins the install automatically. Should I be doing it from the terminal cmd line?

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2009-01-23
Not sure if you want to force overwrite but you can do it, I don't recommend it, but it's your choice. If you want you can run the following command:
```
dpkg --force-overwrite -i  filename.deb
```
Remember substitute your own information where it says **filename.deb** obviously.

---

### Post by mrbiggbrain on 2009-01-23
> **Codename said:**
> Not sure if you want to force overwrite but you can do it, I don't recommend it, but it's your choice. If you want you can run the following command:
```
dpkg --force-overwrite -i  filename.deb
```
Remember substitute your own information where it says **filename.deb** obviously.

yeah forceing overwrite is always a tough thing, i had to do it a bit more when i was useing RPM under fedora and Yellow Dog. it can sometimes be needed, but can leave things brocken (like all your applications (made that mistake when i forced a library)

---

### Post by mriman on 2009-01-23
Is there another file present that is preventing the deb file from being written. It seems as though that /kernel/sound/soundcore.ko does not like what the file is trying to do.

---

