---
title: "9.10 Latest Kernel update No Sound"
date: 2010-02-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by buddyd16 on 2010-02-11
Not sure how to begin as I have never dealt with hardware issues before. I went through the comprehensive sound guide and still can not make heads or tails of what is causing my issue.

Here is the output from ```
aplay -l
```
```
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: ALC889 Analog [ALC889 Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 1: ALC889 Digital [ALC889 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
```

I am using the digital out to a pair of studio monitor speakers. Attached is a screen shot of the ```
alsamixer
``` one thing that seems puzzeling to me off the bat was the gain for the main volume is -35.00 db for some reason I feel like that should either be 0 or a positive number.

I also have the pulseaudio equalizer installed which was working before the update and was needed as sound pitch and gain were off. The script/program can be found here: [HTML]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308838&highlight=pulse+audio+equalizer[/HTML]

If any more information is needed please let me know and thank you for any help.

---

### Post by buddyd16 on 2010-02-11
ok looks like I may have kind of figured it out I just restarted and ran alsamixer again and everything was muted and turned all the way down. I opened the pulseaudio equalizer and unchecked the "enable EQ" and "keep settings" check boxes and then adjusted the volumes via the alsa mixer and voila sound. I might also add that I now no longer have the terrible audio distortion I had prior to installing the pulseaudio equilizer and updates. I think this whole thing may have come out of an alsa or pulseaudio update which for me at least coincided with a kernel update.

So in light of all this I still have a question about the main volume in the alsa mixer is that just a gain factor on the main system volume controlled by the volume panel applet?

---

### Post by buddyd16 on 2010-02-11
I spoke a little too soon it seems that on each restart alsamixer has everything muted and turned all the way down even after saving the settings via ```
sudo alsactl store 0
``` is there any other method to save the alsamixer settings?

---

### Post by buddyd16 on 2010-02-25
bump. 

Does anyone know of any other ways to save the alsamixer settings?

---

