---
title: "11.04 - gvfsd-ftp general protection fault"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Calash on 2011-04-28
I have a fresh 11.04 on my work computer.  When I try to mount my FTP server via Nautilus it flashing quickly and then disconnects.  In the logs I get the following event:

kernel: [ 1838.736297] gvfsd-ftp[3448] general protection ip:7f2e1b692133 sp:7f2e1ed558e0 error:0 in libwebkitgtk-1.0.so.0.6.0[7f2e1a598000+15b7000]

Every once in a while I will get a segfault as well.

Mounting via gvfs-mount results in a mount point in nautilus but as soon as I try to access it the same issue happens.

Terminal FTP and Filezilla can both connect and work with the FTP server fine.  Also my old OS, 10.10, can access the server using the same bookmark file.

Tried without the bookmark with no luck, as well as tried to access a in-house FTP.  That just hangs and times out with a dbus timeout error.


Edit:  Forgot to add that this is the x64 version.

---

### Post by Calash on 2011-04-28
Ok, an interesting update.

I setup a local FTP server on a XP box in the same subnet and it worked perfectly.

I guess I am looking at a Proxy issue again, but unsure of what it could be.  At least I have something to aim for.

---

### Post by Calash on 2011-04-28
Proxy issue.

For some odd reason I could not use the Proxy pac, nor could I specify FTP to pass via the proxy server as it would crash gvfsd.  I ended up manually putting in the proxy settings and having the system bypass my FTP site.  That got everything routing correctly.

Odd issue..but back up and running.

---

