---
title: "13.10 USB2.0 unable to boot"
date: 2014-01-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jonesjoo on 2014-01-12
Hi I downloaded a iso file for Ubuntu 13.10 and try to make it bootable through usb by a software called "ISO to USB". Now the USB is named as "Install Ubuntu (D:)", however, it seems I can't boot from the USB.
I am using Toshiba NB200. Can someone please assist? Thanks

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-01-12
There can be many causes for your problem.

- Please describe that happens (all details) when you try to boot!

- Also describe your computer: sometimes a description like NB200 can contain different hardware, so please specify, cpu, ram (size), graphics chip and wifi chip.

- Did you check that the download was good with md5sum?

- Did you make the computer boot from USB? Either via a boot menu or by changing the boot order in BIOS.

- Try another method and tool to make a boot-USB from the iso file. See this link [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick)

- Try another pendrive. Some pendrives are easier to boot that others.

- Try the pendrive in another computer. Some computers are harder to boot from USB. See this link [Howto help USB boot drives]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2196858")

---

### Post by jonesjoo on 2014-01-12
> **sudodus said:**
> - Try another method and tool to make a boot-USB from the iso file. See this link [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick)



I followed your page and now it can be booted successfully. But it's very slow. Will it be faster if I install a larger RAM on the NB200?
Also I need to know if Ubuntu can work without the USB after successfully booted. Your help is much appreciated.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-01-12
Yes, I think it will be faster with more RAM. If you have only 1 GB as described in a web-site, I would say you need at least the double, but you would benefit from 4 GB with standard Ubuntu. Lubuntu with an ultra-light desktop works reasonably well with 1 GB. With low RAM it is an advantage to use a 32-bit system instead of a 64-bit system (below 2-4 GB RAM).

I think that there is a limit in the CPU and the graphics too, so that the performance with standard Ubuntu (and Unity) will not be great, even with lots of RAM. But I don't know the computer specs, I have data from the internet, that might differ from your computer.

And I don't know what you want and need, the balance between speed and 'eye-candy' is different for each person.

When installed into an internal drive, the system works without the USB drive. But it is a good thing to try running from USB without installing before deciding what to install.

---

