---
title: "9.10 Sound Effects Confusion"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lucasl on 2009-11-04
Hi,
I never really had any sound effects in Ubuntu before (other than the system-ready drums), but with this update I am getting a little blip whenever I click on a button (and no other time, strangely).
This isn't unwelcome, but I can't find any customisation for this anywhere, and despite selecting the 'drip' sound theme I'm yet to hear a drip.
Could someone explain this to me?

Thanks!

---

### Post by jkinnan on 2009-11-05
I believe "Drip" is a single alert sound, not a whole sound theme.  The sound theme is in the pulldown menu above, called Ubuntu by default.  Selecting "Drip" will use the above sound theme called Ubuntu, but change the alert sound to a Drip.

However, I do see your point - there does not appear to be any customization, except for the choicec of the alert sound.  I was able to find one additional theme in the Synaptic repositories, called ubuntustudio-sounds.  I cannot find any other _sound_ themes on the web.  I only find desktop themes, not sound themes.

Does anybody know where to find sound themes?  Does anybody know a way to customize individual sounds using the GUI?  I thought 9.04 had a tab where you could select a sound for individual actions, like button click, alart sounds, new mail, .... stuff like that.  But I do not see that ability in 9.10.

---

### Post by sandman3838 on 2009-11-29
Hello
Like you I would love to see something more interesting as far as the sound themes go?

So far the only one that I have found is here - 
[http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/StarCraft+Sound+Theme?content=115743](http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/StarCraft+Sound+Theme?content=115743)
This first one does seem to be working ok.


Now there is another one in there and the sounds are really good but I have been unable to get it to show up in Preferences/Sound even after I made a Script file for it?

[http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/%22Borealis%22+sound+theme?content=12584](http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/%22Borealis%22+sound+theme?content=12584)

Hope it help.

---

