---
title: "10.04 Lost the installation supervisor panel"
date: 2010-07-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by b.bill.p on 2010-07-26
After successfully installing 10.04 Desktop onto a old Dell PC, I could see and execute the applications froma a Windows like desktop but after rebooting the system only brings me up to a blank screen where I have to create my own application launchers.

What happened to the original Installation Screen with all the system and application Menus?  

Bill

---

### Post by collinp on 2010-07-26
Your post wasn't very detailed or well-worded about what exactly happened. Could you provide a screenshot of your issue?

---

### Post by b.bill.p on 2010-07-26
Thanks for replying ... well there is not much to say, Ubuntu 10.04 Desktop for PC installation went fine, I set my name up for the login with a password, everything was uneventful and at the end of  the disk load from the CD ISO  installation a complete screen of applications appeared which I could use.  At the end of the day I clicked system shutdown and went to dinner.   Like I said, the Ubuntu Desktop display appeared but little did I know I would never see it again.


After dinner I rebooted the PC and in a few seconds the screen came up to the colorful orange screen as the desktop but void of any and all icons.  I right clicked to get a mini menu of options to create application launchers.  Well what happened to the nice user interface with a desktop full of applications that displayed during the initial installation ??

Thats about it.  I've searched the forums to find out more information and found command lines like
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm    or
sudo service gdm start      or 
sup - s

Seems that there are a few problems in this area .... thanks .... Bill

---

