---
title: "8.04"
date: 2008-04-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by 1scorpio on 2008-04-29
I have Ubuntu 8.04 installed on my machine and am having difficulty with lock ups. I believe the locks are caused by openGL but I have no clue how to fix. machine locks when any GL screen saver is on. I have an ATI card I believe it is a catalyst but don't know the  #. any help would Be welcome.

1scorpio

---

### Post by Immolatus on 2008-04-29
are you using the restricted driver??

---

### Post by 1scorpio on 2008-04-29
dont know but am using the new  nvidia driver

---

### Post by phr0ze on 2008-04-29
A little off topic. I tried to send you a PM but you don't accept any.

Try to use more descriptive titles on your threads such as '8.04 Locks up on screen savers'

Also, I was going to suggest a change to your SIG.

Ubuntu Linux is not hard but there is, as with all things, a learning curve.

I'm not a grammar major at all but I found it hard to read in it's original form.

Thanks,
John

---

### Post by Bablefish on 2008-04-29
All I can say after a bad experiance becareful about those ATI drivers. You can find the Linux ones on their official site. The real downside and the warning is due to the only drivers they have for download are the 64 bit ones. And NO you can't use them on a 32 bit machine. I learned that one the hard way.

---

### Post by Immolatus on 2008-04-29
use the driver from the "restricted drivers" and you can't use an nvidia driver on an ati card, there's your problem right there.

---

