---
title: "H.D. driving me crazy"
date: 2012-11-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Bugscuffle on 2012-11-25
Please help me and tell me what I'm doing (or not doing) that is wrong here. I bought a used computer with an 80 GB H.D. It is working just fine in the 0 slot with windows XP Pro. Initially I loaded UBUNTU 12.04 on it and it worked great. Later, I wiped tjhe 80 GB H.D. and added a second 250 GB H.D. I installed it in the only other slot available on the machine and then I wiped it too. I cannot get UBUNTU to load onto the second H.D. I disconnect the slot 0 H.D. and I configurure the machine to boot from the C.D. and start it up. The screen tells me that Ubuntu is doing something. It doessn't say what, but it is doing something because I can see the five little dots on the screen turning red and white sequentially. Then after a while it just stops. It doesn't say anything, it just stops. It won't do anything. It wont even eject the C.D. When I boot up Windows and look in the Device Manager the Status says that the device is working properly. I've tried two different disks and they both do the same thingm, run a while and then just stop cold. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by personalpc on 2012-11-25
1. Install the 80GB drive to Slot 0 and the 250GB to Slot 1
2. Boot Machine into BIOS
3. Set Boot order to CD first, 80GB drive second, 250GB drive third
4. Insert Ubuntu Installer CD
5. Boot to cd and when it shows the keyboard at the bottom press any key to get the menu if the menu doesn't already pop up. You want to just install Ubuntu.
5. Continue install with your locals (time keyboard etc)
6. Select "Do something else" and set custom partitioning as follows:

/dev/sda 
create primary partition of the entire disk
formatted as ext4
with a mount point of /

/dev/sdb
create primary partition of twice the size of your physical ram(eg 4GB RAM = 8GB partition)
formatted as swap
with a mount point of swap

create primary partition of rest of the free space
formatted as ext4
with a mount point of /home

Continue with the install and all of your personal files and swap will be stored on the dormant 250GB drive and your GNU/Linux OS will be on the 80GB drive. That should give you best performance plus plenty of space to store files. Cheers!

---

### Post by BertN45 on 2012-11-25
If you have IDE/ATA drives did you check the master/slave jumpers on both drives?

---

### Post by Bugscuffle on 2012-11-26
Bertn45 - Thanks for the advice, but bot drives are SATA.
 
Personalpc - Thank you for your response. I should be able to decipher it in about five years if I study hard and learn a lot more about computers and computing. I really do appredciate your efforts, but what you told me is far beyond my capabilities right now. What I want to end up with is Windows XP on the 80 GB drive and UBUNTU on the 250 GB drive. So please bear with an absolute beginner and tell me if I am misunderstanding what I am seeing. Win XP loades up and runs perfectly on the 80 GB drive in slot 0. I do not have an option to boot from the H.D. in slot 1. It just isn't in the boot set up (order) window. It only gives an option to "Boot From SATA H.D.", but doesn't designate which one. It appears that the machine is presuming that there is only one, but I can see both the 80 and the 250 GB H.D.'s in "Drives" on the set up menu,  I'm assuming that the machine recognizes them both. Is that correct or do I need a BIOS update?

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-11-26
Hi. I think you are going to have to end up following personalpc's post at least up to here

> 1. Install the 80GB drive to Slot 0 and the 250GB to Slot 1
2. Boot Machine into BIOS
3. Set Boot order to CD first, 80GB drive second, 250GB drive third
4. Insert Ubuntu Installer CD
5. Boot to cd and when it shows the keyboard at the bottom press any key to get the menu 

I think that is really the most direct way to get the dual boot set-up you want on two drives as you want it. Anyway...

I know you said that you can't choose between the drives to boot from. I think that is very odd, but can't explain it other than to guess that the "wiping" that you did may have removed something that tells the BIOS that it might be a boot candidate. Is there a partition on the 250GB drive at all?

Another thing that occurs to me to ask is how much RAM the machine has got? Given that it came with an 80GB drive, I don't think the RAM would be that small, but I know that if it is really small, the installer can have trouble. So, how much RAM is in there?

Have you tried running the Ubuntu installer with the 250GB drive plugged in to slot 0? What happens then?

Either way, as I said, I would try the whole business with both drives in and go to the manual partitioning option in the installer. I know that sounds scary, but it is actually fairly straightforward.

I take it you already have your XP installed? If not, you should install that before install Ubuntu. As I have indicated, I don't think much of disconnecting drives, installing one at a time, and then trying to make them all show up after all the installs. You should install XP first, as it doesn't cater for there being anything else in the world other than Microsoft products. When that is on there, the Ubuntu installer will find it and include it in your boot menu, as you wish to have it for your dual boot set up. I personally would plug all the drives in and do both installs with both drives in. After all, you are doing fresh installs of everything. If you mess up, it is annoying, but you haven't lost anything but time if you have to go back and start again.

So, back to why the installer is not getting on with things. Did you check the MD5sum of the .iso before you burnt the CD? Instructions here
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM")

When you burn the CD, you should use the lowest burn speed you can choose. 

In the menu that you get to by following the instructions that I quoted above, there should be an option to "check CD". Look at that, perhaps.

That is enough for starters, I think.

---

