---
title: "11.04 Too Much for my Hardware"
date: 2011-05-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by llsee46 on 2011-05-17
First, I consider myself a "competent" PC user. Although retired now, in my work life I managed a good sized (200 user) Windows installation. I currently have 3 PC's on my desk and have been using my older desktop (Dell Optiplex, Intel Pentium P4-2.4Ghz, 2 GB memory, 320 GB WD hard drive, on-board Intel graphics adapter) as a test machine. For a while, I ran the Win7 beta and RC versions on it. Then I installed Ubuntu 9 on it. I later upped the version to 10.10. Ubuntu ran pretty good on it. Then I tried updating to 11.04.

After the update I received the message that my grapics card couldn't run the new interface and I should opt for the clasic interface. I did, but it didn't work out. When I clicked on the applications menu (or places or system) the drop down box opened, but there were no entries displayed for the sub menus. I could tell they were there, but I could not see them, so trying to select the correct entry was a guess. Worse, after I moved off the menu, it did not close but left a 'hole' in the desktop. If I had an application open, and opened the drop-down menu, again, that portion of the screen where the drop-down box was did not return to the application after closing, but left a blank space on the screen.

Realizing that the update process is not perfect, I downloaded a new image of 11.04, burned a CD, and tried a complete install of 11.04. But the issues remained. I subsequently re-installed 10.10, and it runs just fine on this old system. 

Have I reached the end of the line for Ubuntu on this 8 year old PC? For now, I will stay on 10.10. It seems ironic that Ubuntu 11.04 will not run on this machine whereas Windows-7 ran very smoothly, even better than the Win-XP that was originally on this PC.

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-17
11.04 with a kernel patch update runs smoothly on a four year old netbook with a weak processor.

I'm running Unity 2D with Compiz compositing. It looks awesome!

As long as they offer Unity for older machines, I think I can run Ubuntu for a long time.

---

### Post by jrozo17 on 2011-05-17
I'm not too sure how to solve your problem since I'm no expert, but I had similar computer specs to your laptop and 11.04 ran fine.(although a little slow)

However, I recommend trying out Ubuntu 10.04 LTS. I have it and love it, and it's much more stable than any new releases I've tried.

Its all up to you though, personally I'm staying with Long Term Support versions since I seem to have a lot less problems. :)


Hope I helped in some way or another... :lolflag:

---

### Post by jmore9 on 2011-05-17
The intels need the 900 series or better to run the new ubuntu eye candy machine.  I am using 10.10 (with a MX4000 and works fine) until its life span runs out then switching over to derbian proper.

You can do almost everything in debian that you do in ubuntu just have to do more work to get it that way.

---

### Post by Ian Chesterton on 2011-05-18
I tried 11.04 with Unity on my laptop (AMD Turion X2 Dual-Core Mobile 2.2 GHz with 4.0 GB RAM, ATI Radeon HD 3200 Graphics) and it seemed to be too much for it.  It was slow and ended up locking up, forcing a hard re-boot.  The same computer was built for Win 7 and runs it just fine.

I use 10.04 LTS on my desktop (P4 3.2 GHz with 2.0 GB RAM) and it runs great!  Snappy and rock-solid.  I'll probably keep it on there until the next LTS (12.04) comes along.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-05-18
> **Ian Chesterton said:**
> I tried 11.04 with Unity on my laptop (AMD Turion X2 Dual-Core Mobile 2.2 GHz with 4.0 GB RAM, ATI Radeon HD 3200 Graphics) and it seemed to be too much for it.  It was slow and ended up locking up, forcing a hard re-boot.  The same computer was built for Win 7 and runs it just fine.

I use 10.04 LTS on my desktop (P4 3.2 GHz with 2.0 GB RAM) and it runs great!  Snappy and rock-solid.  I'll probably keep it on there until the next LTS (12.04) comes along.

did you install the proprietary drivers for your graphics card?

Based on specs, your computer is easily capable of running Unity without any problems.

(my 6-years old laptop has a 1,6GHz dual core, 1GB of RAM and Mobility Radeon X1600, works absolutely smoothly with Unity. And so did my old Athlon XP 2,3GHz/1GB RAM/Radeon 9600XT setup I just donated to a friend... Unity and Compiz aren't especially resource hungry, they only require you to have a decently working graphics card + drivers.)

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-18
Install Unity 2D on your laptop. It'll feel snappier and it won't lock up. If it can run on a netbook with a Via C-7 processor, it can run on your AMD Turion X2 without a hiccup.

---

