---
title: "Warning: session_start() [function.session-start]: Cannot send session cookie - heade"
date: 2008-08-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ivikas on 2008-08-28
Hello all,

      I have been working on this error for 8 hours today and finally i got a solution for this.Let i elborate and be a guide to those who is in despair.

FOR THIS TYPE OF ERROR

[COLOR="Red"]Warning: session_start() [function.session-start]: Cannot send session cookie - headers already sent by [/COLOR]

THE REASON CAN BE

1.The starting php tag should be at top of the page and there should not be space,newline etc.. before starting and ending of a php tag.The php tag "<?php" should be on line number 1(that's start)if not,this will cause error.This is also the case with included file as they may contain space,blanks and cause this error.

2.Again session_start() should be in top of php page before other code begins.And still more header [ header("Location:loc.php");] must first be sent to browser,so if there's an echo message before header,this error will happen.

3.If this error is occuring and if you are not able to figure it out,you can buffer your output like <?php ob_start()----your php code--- ob_flush() ?>

4.Still more if this error is happening,you will sure to find three  extra bom character before  your php start tag or maybe at end  like(not exact) [COLOR="Red"]'^'[/COLOR]<?php ?>[COLOR="Red"]'' [/COLOR]and THE MOST INTRESTING PART IS THAT YOU WILL NOT SEE IT IN DREAMWEAVER(This extra characters are autogenerated by dreamweaver) OR IN WORDPAD OR GEDIT ETC..BECAUSE THEY ARE [COLOR="Red"]INVISIBLE[/COLOR] AND SO THE ERROR CONTINUES TO HAPPEN.so just open that file either in notepad(in my case) or eclipse and now you will be able to see the extra character,just remove it and you are done!!

Please feel free to give  any feedback or improvements you have.

Thanks

---

### Post by tjeck46 on 2010-04-16
You can remove BOM with gedit by copying all exept the first line from original file into the new file (start by inserting a newline in the top of the original file). Then overwrite the old file with the new one. Done. :smile:

---

### Post by king211 on 2011-07-08
Sometimes the error also comes if you changed the script from ANSI to UTF8.
it adds some text like this before the php start tag:
[SIZE=2]' ï»&#1567; ' [/SIZE]
[SIZE=2]You can remove that in eclipse and the warning message will be removed.[/SIZE]
[SIZE=2]But if you have some characters that are only supported by UTF8[/SIZE]
[SIZE=2]then you can just copy the above code and place it below the session_start() command like this :[/SIZE]
 
[PHP]
[LEFT]<?php
session_start();
?>
ï»&#1567;[/LEFT]
<?
//more code below.....
[LEFT][/LEFT][/PHP]
 
[LEFT]Cheers:P[/LEFT]

---

