---
title: "[9.10] Suddenly, I have no sound."
date: 2009-11-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Kanaria on 2009-11-29
I just installed the new ubuntu last week.
No problems, it's worked perfectly.

Odd as it may be, I turned on my system this morning to find that my computer  refuses to make any noise whatsoever.

It was absolutely fine last night, really. 

All of my cords are in the right order, everything is plugged in...
I'm not even getting the startup sound. 


Any advice?

---

### Post by Virtual Liberty on 2009-11-29
```
alsamixer
```

Are Master and PCM ( exception - 70% ) pulled up to the maximum and not muted ( MM ) ?

---

### Post by Kanaria on 2009-11-29
> **Virtual Liberty said:**
> ```
alsamixer
```Are Master and PCM ( exception - 70% ) pulled up to the maximum and not muted ( MM ) ?


Although they were down, pulling them up fixed nothing. D:

---

### Post by Virtual Liberty on 2009-11-29
```
sudo adduser **username** audio
```

Replace the username, execute it, reboot.

---

### Post by Kanaria on 2009-11-29
Still no luck. 

It worked fine last night, I swear. ><

---

### Post by Kanaria on 2009-11-29
Any other suggestions from anyone?

---

### Post by Zorael on 2009-11-29
I tend to agree with the suspicions about volumes. But anyway.

Any error messages output from this? (Or any sound?)
```
$ speaker-test -twav -c2
```

---

### Post by Kanaria on 2009-11-29
No error messages, but no sound either.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2009-11-29
It might be pulse related, a lot of people are having issues with it.
But there is another issue I bumped into when installing Karmic for someone:
Did you install any restricted drivers on your computer?

---

### Post by Kanaria on 2009-11-29
> **SunnyRabbiera said:**
> It might be pulse related, a lot of people are having issues with it.
But there is another issue I bumped into:
Did you install any restricted drivers on your computer?



I had installed the Ubuntu Restricted Extras thing from the software center, but uninstalling it and rebooting had no effect.

I did, however, run the update manager last night.  I had forgotten about that.  


Should I just say, "Forget it." and do another clean install?

---

### Post by Zorael on 2009-11-30
That really shouldn't be necessary. PulseAudio imposes itself as a layer ontop of the sound architecture (ALSA), and if something ends up muting or lowering the volume in the architecture, it won't be visible in the Pulse volume control app (nor alsamixer unless told to).

What do volume sliders say in 'alsamixer -Dhw'?
```
$ alsamixer -Dhw
```
MM means muted, 00 means unmuted.

---

### Post by iamgeniusrnti on 2009-11-30
Don't feel bad, same thing happened to me recently.  I wound up doing a apt-get --purge alsa and then reinstalled.
 
Alsa still doesn't work though--it but at least now it falls back to OSS.  When I run alsamixer it comes up with a convoluted error: relocation error: alsamixer: symbol snd_mixer_selem_get_playback_dB, version ALSA_0.9 not defined in file libasound.so.2 with link time reference
 
I did some googling on the error and only one guy experienced it before me so I just gave up on it.

---

