---
title: "Crash generated by asking for permissions status on  JPEG file"
date: 2012-05-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jps2012 on 2012-05-10
I'm getting flickering windows, freezing programs, and what almost looks like an automatic Unity reset ... whenever (in the GNOME GUI) I click on the "permissions" tab under properties for a specific jpg image file in my home directory. 

The only thing that seems to generate the crash ... is hitting the permissions tab for that file. I've checked other files. No problems with touching the tab. But three crashes in a row when I do it for the jpg.

I executed "unity --reset" and got the following response (and a freeze) in Terminal: 

"(compiz:281): GLib-CRITICAL **:g_source_remove: assertion 'tag > 0' failed" 

Can anyone tell me if there's something DANGEROUS going on that I might be able to fix? And how to fix it? 

Here are some interesting details: the file extension is jpg, but bash color-codes (in a directory listing) the file the way it would a text file (my preferences are set to show text files in green type). 

The file shows a graphical thumbnail, however, in the GUI, the same as it would for any other photo (and it's the right thumbnail for this image file).

Here's the shell's response for "file filename"

"JPEG image data, JFIF standard 1.02"

Is there a command to check the integrity of the data in a file? A command that outputs a list of files that have been corrupted? That are FUBAR? (Those would be great commands to know.)

Thank you.

---

