---
title: "Amd64"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Earthcat on 2009-04-25
Which version can I use for an AMD64 PC. I downloaded 9.04 , then I went to a page that said 6.06?
Thanks, G

---

### Post by Tibuda on 2009-04-25
> **Earthcat said:**
> Which version can I use for an AMD64 PC. I downloaded 9.04 , then I went to a page that said 6.06?
Thanks, G
Forget this 6.06, that's old. There are two 9.04 CDs available: x86 and amd64. I believe both would work with your processor, but amd64 would be fast. What have you downloaded (or what is the file name)?

---

### Post by Earthcat on 2009-04-25
Actually it's still downloading and I just bumbled into downloading the right one, I think.

says: ubuntu-9.04-desktop-amd64.iso

Since I got you here, I want to totally erase the drive and install ubuntu.  I'm thinking of using boot and nuke, will this set me up for a clean install?

The reason I ask is I have been trying reinstall xp on this machine and it doesn't seem to erase the hard drive because it keeps coming up with driver errors. Shouldn't be anything on the drive to generate driver errors and there is nothing plugged in cept keyboard, mouse, monitor. nothing in pcis, done with windows.

---

### Post by |Mitch| on 2009-04-25
you can delete and set up partitions from the install disk, make sure you burn the disk at a slower speed so you insure yourself for a clean install. I have always burnt the image at 4X, just to be on the safe side.

---

### Post by Tibuda on 2009-04-25
The installer will ask you where to install. You can choose to use the whole hard disk.

---

### Post by Earthcat on 2009-04-25
Cool, can't wait
Thanks guys

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2009-04-25
Once you boot into the Live CD, go to System/Administration/Partition Editor. There you can reformat the hard drive. You can also designate to reformat the drive during the installation procedure.

I am running 9.04 on a system with AMD 64 processor (see specs below). I installed the 64 bit version and all is running great. I monkeyed with the optional ext4 file system but have not had success. The ext3 file system + Jaunty = good speed and stability. I am not going to complain about nano seconds in speed.

---

