---
title: "8.10 installation troubles"
date: 2009-01-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mramsey on 2009-01-19
Ok my upgrade attempts did not work. So I decided to try the installation of 8.10 from the disk. Everything seemed to install just fine. Got the message "Installation Complete. remove CD and restart" After the restart I get the login screen and enter my username and password. When I click ok the login screen goes away and it appears that things start working , the screen goes to a tan background for a few seconds then goes black and that is where I am at now.  Any clues as to what is going on?? :confused:

---

### Post by BDNiner on 2009-01-19
What kind of video card do you have? I think that you will have to setup the video card from the terminal. Try Ctrl-Alt-F1 to get to a terminal and log in. then run
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

```

---

### Post by mramsey on 2009-01-19
Ok I am just using the onboard video. I reconfigured X now I just get a blank tan screen after I log in. Any other Ideas? :confused:

---

### Post by Terl on 2009-01-19
Do you know what the onboard video card is?  If not can you give make and model of the computer?

---

### Post by mramsey on 2009-01-19
Onboard Intel VGA - The comp is a Dell Optiplex GX260. It has had Ubuntu installed to it before both edgy and fiesty.

---

### Post by rm06 on 2009-01-19
I have a Dell XPS 400 as well with a Radeon video card (not sure what type of video card yours has but mine is a stock 256MB). After logging in, right click the screen and Change Desktop Background, under the Visual Effects tab, change the selection to None. 

This is only a stop-gap measure until Ubuntu downloads the appropriate drivers for your video card after which you can again change the Visual Effects screen to suit your liking. I do run the Extra effects with my video card but it is a bit slow and jumpy - at this point I don't see the use in upgrading the card as the machine is nearly four years old, but to each his own.

Hopefully this will work for you, good luck!

edit - I was basing this of your signature line that shows you are running a Dell XPS. Let us know how the GX260 works out as it is next in line at my house for a Linux upgrade

---

### Post by mramsey on 2009-01-19
This Dell XPS system is not in question... the system in question just hangs after the login screen. after logging in I get about 15 - 20 seconds of HDD activity then nothing but a blank tan screen.

---

### Post by Terl on 2009-01-19
I've been searching trying to help.  I found this thread:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=481558]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=481558") that may have some ideas.

And another:  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/293747]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/293747") with some ideas.

Not finding a lot of good things about this (sorry)  Here's another:  [https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/53279]("https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/53279")

You might want to try 8.04, the long term release, Hardy Heron, and see if that boots up for you.

EDIT:  Found this one too.  This makes 2 that indicate removing compiz first.  Here's this link [http://ubuntu-virginia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6327894]("http://ubuntu-virginia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6327894").  I would give this a try.

---

### Post by mramsey on 2009-01-19
Thanks Terl!!

I removed the Compiz packages and that did the trick. Thanks a million!

Here is the code for reference:

```
sudo apt-get remove compiz* && sudo apt-get autoremove
```

:P

---

