---
title: "10.04 to 10.10"
date: 2010-10-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gavdari on 2010-10-10
I have a Nvidia Geforce 8400M on my Vostro 1510 laptop. I checked about its compatibility with 10.10 and I couldn't find any. Is the available driver in 10.10 works fine?
Besides, I still can't upgrade. When I run update-manager -d only a release candidate is available. When is the LTS going to be ready for upgrade?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-10
If you really want to upgrade through update-manager, wait a few days. The servers are overloaded now.

If you are insecure about your particular screen card, best is to download the ISO from a torrent and try the live CD.

---

### Post by beew on 2010-10-10
If you have installed the Nvidia driver you may want to wait a bit for advice before you upgrade. I think it may be necessary to uninstall it and reactivate the open drivers first. Now others may think it is not necessary , since I am not sure I would suggest that you wait a bit.

---

### Post by gavdari on 2010-10-10
I guess I have to wait for a few days. Thank you.

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-10-10
> beew: I think it may be necessary to uninstall it and reactivate the open drivers first. Now others may think it is not necessary , since I am not sure I would suggest that you wait a bit.

Not quite correct. If you have any proprietary drivers installed, uninstall them before upgrading.

> mörgæs: If you really want to upgrade through update-manager, wait a few days. The servers are overloaded now.


That is good advice.

> If you are insecure about your particular screen card, best is to download the ISO from a torrent and try the live CD.

Do that before upgrading. This way you will know if the 10.10 works for you or not.

---

