---
title: "............."
date: 2012-02-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Gourav Vashistha on 2012-02-12
hey guys,i am very new to ubantu and i want to ask that after installing any flavour of linux,the space in harddisk and ram on which ubantu is installed gets dead or after formatting the system i can again use that much space

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2012-02-12
Your question is not clear.Can you rephrase it?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-02-12
When you switch off electrical power to a computer any data in RAM is lost. This is why you have to re-boot and reload the operating system when you switch the computer back on.

Data stored on a hard disk is not lost when power is switched off. But it can be overwritten by new data. This is what happens when we delete a file. The data is still there somewhere and it can be restored unless we inform the operating system to delete the data permanently. The space where that data is held then becomes available for being overwritten by new data.

Think of a cassette tape that has music recorded on to it. If new music is recorded on to the tape the old music is overwritten.

A disk with Ubuntu installed on it can be re-formatted just as a disk with Microsoft Windows installed on it can be formatted. Do a format of a hard disk and you lose any data (operating system, programs and documents) that are on that disk.

I have four versions of Ubuntu on my hard disk each in their own partition. If I want to I can install another type of Linux operating system or another version of Ubuntu into the space being used by those versions of Ubuntu. Or I can format the partitions and store data on them.

Regards

---

