---
title: "11.10 - no DVD-DL write capabilities?"
date: 2011-11-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-21
I downloaded the Windows 8 developer pre-beta release to put in a VM for testing and possible app development.  It's a DVD ISO of 4.8gb, and if I try using just a regular DVD (4.7gb) it does tell me the output medium is too small.  However, I have tried Brasero and K3B to burn the image to DVD-DL, but both fail when they start the actual write process.  Brasero said it didn't support DL media at this time.  K3B first reported permission problems, so I ran k3bsetup to change permissions.  All subsequent attempts with k3b result in the process failing with some obscure (to me) error when it attempts the actual writing and tells me that sometimes it can be fixed by track-at-once writes.  I don't really want to blow away a few DVD-DL's while getting things set up in the command line, so I haven't done what they say as far as TAO goes.

I really think the underlying processes that brasero and k3b use can not handle a dual-layer disk.

Any help/suggestions would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks in advance!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-11-22
I haven't tried it so I can't verify if this is true, but apparently dual-layer writing is broken in 11.10 (because it's broken in upstream Growisofs).

You'd need to compile the latest version of growisofs, and maybe use growisofs on the command-line to burn the disc. It's fairly easy to do, just make sure you've got the "layer break" number correct. I imagine the Microsoft website mentions what layer break number to put in?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-11-22
> **anewguy said:**
> I downloaded the Windows 8 developer pre-beta release to put in a VM for testing and possible app development.  It's a DVD ISO of 4.8gb, and if I try using just a regular DVD (4.7gb) it does tell me the output medium is too small.  However, I have tried Brasero and K3B to burn the image to DVD-DL, but both fail when they start the actual write process.  Brasero said it didn't support DL media at this time.  K3B first reported permission problems, so I ran k3bsetup to change permissions.  All subsequent attempts with k3b result in the process failing with some obscure (to me) error when it attempts the actual writing and tells me that sometimes it can be fixed by track-at-once writes.  I don't really want to blow away a few DVD-DL's while getting things set up in the command line, so I haven't done what they say as far as TAO goes.

I really think the underlying processes that brasero and k3b use can not handle a dual-layer disk.

Any help/suggestions would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks in advance!
Dave ;)

If you are using vbox, you don't need to burn the iso to a disk, you cn install directly from the iso.

I didn't check the size of the Windows 8 dvd image, I just used brasero to burn it to a regular dvd.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-22
Yeah, the "regular" Windows 8 ISO will fit on a 4.8gb DVD, but I downloaded the ISO that includes the Express developer packages so it's just large enough not to fit.  Dang.

Was going to run it in VB on my laptop, so I not so wisely thought I'd download it to my desktop (all Ubuntu, Windows in VB), burn it to a DVD, load the ISO to disk then load it into VM on my laptop (Windows 7, Ubuntu 11.10 in VB, so I wanted to add Windows 8 as just another VM there).

I guess all isn't lost though - I did pick up a couple of 8gb flash drives so I can move the ISO to the laptop.

I'm still wanting to solve the DL problem in 11.10, so I'll try working on that on the side as well.

Thanks for the replies!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Scunizi on 2011-11-22
Instead of burning it to a DVD or installing directly from an iso.  You could also "install" it on a 8gig usb key.. or simply copy it to it for installation on the VM in whatever OS you want.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-23
As noted in my last post, I did pick up a couple of 8gb flash drives so I could move the ISO to my laptop as I'm going to be running the VM there, not on the desktop where I did the download.

Now for more fun - trying to copy the file to the flash drives results in a error about splicing the file.

I think I'm going to give up and just download it on the laptop - it just takes forever since I'm using a DSL connection, not a broadband connection.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Scunizi on 2011-11-23
That happened because it's formatted for FAT which doesn't like files that big.. reformat for EXT3 not 4, install the ext3 driver for windows in windows and then it will read the newly formatted stick and allow you to copy it off as well as copy it onto the stick.  After you can reformat the stick back to FAT for more generic uses.

---

### Post by Scunizi on 2011-11-23
Sorry for double post. but you could also format the stick for NTFS and not mess with any drivers.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-23
Thanks, Scunizi!!  I had a huge brain lapse and completely forgot about that.  Of course after formatting in ntfs it works just great!

Thanks again!

Dave ;)

---

