---
title: "12.04 Synaptic Package Manager ?"
date: 2012-11-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by 577 Jersey on 2012-11-07
Hi guys,,

 Really loving these distros,,I have one question as I installed Google Chrome just to try it out,,it worked fine but I could not find the synaptic package manager to uninstall it from the deb so I just used the terminal to uninstall,,it worked fine.
But a stupid question to say the least,,where in the heck is the manager located,,i tried looking in home,and dont see it under system settings either.Taking a little getting used to this Unity top.

 Thanks in advance for your help.

 Tom

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2012-11-07
I did not understand what you meant by "uninstall it from the deb".

You can uninstall it from the same place you installed it: the Ubuntu Software Manager.

If you prefer to use Synaptic, you would have to have added the repository manually before installing; did you do that?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2012-11-07
The default package manager for Ubuntu 12.04 is Software Center. If you prefer Synaptic, try:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install synaptic
gksu synaptic
```

If you get any error messages, copy & paste the full output here.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2012-11-07
Did you install synaptic?
From something like Ubuntu 11.04 on, synaptic was no longer included in the default install.
I had no problem finding Chrome in synaptic, just type google-chrome-stable(or unstable, or beta or something).
Or follow Paddy's advice and uninstall it through Ubuntu Software Center.

Edit: Follow Snowpine's advice.

---

### Post by 577 Jersey on 2012-11-07
I tried uninstalling it through the software center,, but only Chromium comes up there,,not Chrome.When I installed Chrome it was through a web search not from the manager,,so I really dont know where it went?

I do not recall adding anything manually before installing,,I just followed prompts when downloading Chrome.

So you are saying that 12.04 does not come with Synaptic already installed like Mint mate or others,,how would I add it?

Thanks Tom ;)

Update:
 Thanks for all the speedy replies,,I will try these methods and post my reply shortly.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2012-11-07
Ubuntu now uses the Ubuntu Software Centre, which is rather nice and automatically adds repositories when needed, unlike Synaptic (although you are welcome to use both).

> Chromium serves as a base for Google Chrome, which is Chromium rebranded (name and logo) with very few additions such as usage tracking and an auto-updater system.Of course, you don't need the auto-updater system (the Software Updater does that for you), and most people don't want the usage tracking.

You want to install Chromium, not Chrome, for Linux.

---

### Post by 577 Jersey on 2012-11-07
Ok,,
 I was typing in (google chrome) thats why it would not come up,,(google-chrome-stable) does the job,and yes I really do like the software center.

 My mistake,,hanging out in winblows for way too long,,Ill never be a slave to that propaganda again!

 Lovin Linux!!!

Thanks guys!!

 577-Jersy:guitar:

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2012-11-07
Ah, that's good, you figured it out.

Please [mark your thread as solved]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads") to help others.

---

