---
title: "9.10 installed now how do I turn off netbook again"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Iknownothing on 2009-11-01
9.10 down loaded, no issues and running well on my dell mini 9. Just one small problem, where is the icon to turn it off again?

---

### Post by Turtle.net on 2009-11-01
if it's not on your top panel, you can add it (right click->"add to panel")

---

### Post by Iknownothing on 2009-11-01
I can find no where to add it from!! I just need to know how I can turn this computer off. I only got 9.10 an hour ago and can not find the icon to turn it off

---

### Post by hansdown on 2009-11-01
Hi  Iknownothing.

If you click on your user name in the top right corner, does it give you a drop down box with options to turn off, restart, etc?

---

### Post by rockin_goliath on 2009-11-01
If I were you, I would reset your panel configuration, since some changes were made to the applets in 9.10. You will get the Fast User Switch applet, which allows you to control your IM status and lets you suspend and shut down the computer.

[LIST=1]
[*]Open your Home folder
[*]Press CTRL+h to show hidden folders
[*]navigate to .gconf/apps
[*]Right click on the folder called "panel" and select "Compress" to make a backup of the folder. Give it a meaningful filename and put it in a safe place
[*]Delete the folder called "panel"
[*]Press ALT+F2 to open the "Run Application" dialogue
[*]Enter into the space "killall gnome-panel" (without the quotation marks)
[*]The panel should restart in a few seconds with the default layout and applets
[/LIST]

Note, you will lose any configurations relating to the clock, such as locations. However, it will still display your Evolution appointments and tasks.

Hope that works for you!

---

### Post by Iknownothing on 2009-11-01
My user name is not in the top right hand corner. I am stuck here.

---

### Post by rockin_goliath on 2009-11-01
Did you try my previous post? I got the impression from your last post that you missed it.

---

### Post by Iknownothing on 2009-11-01
Yeh you posted as I was replying, I 'll give it a go. I don't understand why its not up there on screen for all to see like the last version

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-11-01
> **Iknownothing said:**
> Yeh you posted as I was replying, I 'll give it a go. I don't understand why its not up there on screen for all to see like the last version

"change"

rotfl

.

---

### Post by vexorian on 2009-11-01
hmnn for now, get on a terminal and type:
```

sudo shutdown -P 0
```

We'll think of a way to restore that button for you, don't worry.

I think you can right click in the top panel, to add to panel and find a power down button.

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-11-01
top panel,  left corner....click the main menu

mine has "lock screen", "logout <user name>", and "shutdown" at the bottom of the drop-down menu.

---

### Post by dBuster on 2009-11-01
Can you get to a terminal window and issue a shutdown command?

That would be one way...

or here is a thought, press and hold the power button on the netbook, it will shut it down after holding it for about 5 seconds.

---

### Post by Iknownothing on 2009-11-01
I tried that but  nothing happens when i press F2

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-11-01
> **dBuster said:**
> or here is a thought, press and hold the power button on the netbook, it will shut it down after holding it for about 5 seconds.

uh-uh...don't think thats a good idea on any computer.  :(

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2009-11-01
Go to **System --> Log Out (username)**

---

### Post by Iknownothing on 2009-11-01
That only turns on and off favourites page

> **fooman said:**
> top panel,  left corner....click the main menu

mine has "lock screen", "logout <user name>", and "shutdown" at the bottom of the drop-down menu.

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2009-11-01
> **Iknownothing said:**
> That only turns on and off favourites page

Ops! To fast. Of course it should be **System --> Shut Down** to shut off the computer.

---

### Post by rockin_goliath on 2009-11-01
> **Iknownothing said:**
> I tried that but  nothing happens when i press F2

That's ALT+F2

---

### Post by Iknownothing on 2009-11-01
No Log out icon in system


> **peakshysteria said:**
> Go to **System --> Log Out (username)**

---

### Post by 30otsix on 2009-11-01
have you tried CTRL+ALT+DELETE?

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-11-01
> **rockin_goliath said:**
> That's ALT+F2

if alt-f2 does not work,  go to accessories > terminal

in the terminal,  type:

```
gnome-panel &
```
...then press enter

see if a top panel appears....if it does,  click on the top left, main menu icon.  there should be options at the bottom of the menu.

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-11-01
> **dBuster said:**
> press and hold the power button on the netbook, it will shut it down after holding it for about 5 seconds.> **30otsix said:**
> have you tried CTRL+ALT+DELETE?

rock, mallet, sledgehammer...

rotfl

.

---

