---
title: "9.10 set up and start up problems."
date: 2010-02-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pdlethbridge on 2010-02-02
I've been at it again trying to do the upgrade from 9.04 I just got the disk for 9.10 through the mail so I'd thought I'd give it another chance. 
I placed it in the drive and the machine got to the 1st window asking to install, I pressed f4 to hit the safe graphics mode and proceeded with the set up. After answering the personal questions and password I continued to the desktop that had the window explaining all about 9.10. It was almost done and it showed the skip button for the time server, I hit it a couple of times. WRONG, DON'T DO IT! Apparently it also skipped loading grub which comes right after that. It wouldn't boot or release the cd and when I finally got the cd out it booted then froze. I'm back running 9.04 with no problems. The upgrade to 9.10 has been a real problem. Sometimes no sound, my tv card wouldn't work, the printer quit and now this mess. Has this been enough, I think so. I'll wait for 10.4 and if that is a problem too, I stay with 9.04. It's the best and easiest so far.

---

### Post by pdlethbridge on 2010-02-05
Well, I gave it a really good try but I can't get it to do anything. It won't leave the dos screen. My thinking is that it may be a grub problem or ubiquity. I couldn't even get to the sign in portion and partition manager. The DOS screen would keep flashing and showed a DOS prompt. Because it was flashing, there was no way to accurately put in a pass word. I just don't know what's wrong. I did a check of the CD and it was okay.I had even made a CD of 9.10 but that won't work either. Does anyone have any ideas? I'm at a loose right now. It won't install by partitioning or install to test at the desk top. Could both CD's be bad even if they check out okay?

---

### Post by Miljet on 2010-02-05
My first inclination is to suspect that your CD/DVD drive is throwing read errors. But if you re-installed 9.04 using that drive, that would seem to disprove that theory. At any rate, I think that I would check the disks in another machine to be sure.

Another thought. Does the live CD run on the affected machine? If so, that would also exonerate the drive. 

From there I can't think of any other solutions at the moment.

---

### Post by pdlethbridge on 2010-02-05
I have reinstalled 9.04 without a problem along with other software on both drives that I have. I had thought that it could be a drive as well, and had the same issue with the other drive. I have tried 2 different CD's with the same results on both drives. I'm an experimenter, and when I have a problem I try different things to solve the problem. I just got done upgrading to grub 2 so I'm going to try it again. My thought right now is that both CD's are faulty even though they check out okay.

I TRIED AGAIN WITH THE SAME BAD RESULTS

---

