---
title: "14.04 - convert ffmpeg program to libav"
date: 2014-04-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-28
As I understand it, a few years ago a conflict in the ffmpeg community resulted in Debian/Ubuntu no longer using/packaging ffmpeg and instead started a new project called libav.  I know it is old news, but it is new to me.  I found this out while trying to get the source of k9copy to build in 14.04.  I did get it built, but it seems to run EXTREMELY slow to me.  The code was never converted to use libav, so there are several places in the code dependant on old definitions included in the ffmpeg libraries but not in libav.

I have done a search both in the forums and the net for "convert ffmpeg to libav" and found nothing.  I'm not conversent enough to just dig into the code and try to understand any of the audio/video "stuff".  So, does anyone have any kind of guide for Debian/Ubuntu users to convert code from using ffmpeg to using libav?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-04-28
Why not just use ffmpeg? You can use a ppa [https://launchpad.net/~samrog131/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~samrog131/+archive/ppa)
Install the package ffmpeg-real and all its -dev files and ffmpeg-setalternatives, then run 
```
sudo update-alternatives --config ffmpeg
```
and make it the default and then compile k9copy, that is how I compile vlc and mpv against ffmpeg instead of libav (you can also mess with environmental variables, but I find this easier) 

Problem is that k9copy is old and it may not compile with new ffmpeg (or libav for that matter) So you may need to compile an old version of ffmpeg and then compile k9copy against it (see andrew.46's guide for compiling audacity against a local, old version of ffmpeg in the tutorial forums, the nature of the problems is similar)

Are you sure you can't use other programs such as handbrake instead of k9copy?

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2014-04-28
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> Problem is that k9copy is old and it may not compile with new ffmpeg (or libav for that matter) So you may need to compile an old version of ffmpeg and then compile k9copy against it (see andrew.46's guide for compiling audacity against a local, old version of ffmpeg in the tutorial forums, the nature of the problems is similar)

Indeed, FFmpeg would have to be configured differently and a little painful experimentation with different versions of FFmpeg might be in order...

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-28
Well, I guess I have 2 objectives here.  Yes, I was originally looking at this because of k9copy.  I was able to get it build and execute by just using a copy of avformat.h that apparently was for ffmpeg - whether current ffmpeg or not I have no idea - I found it on the internet saying it was from MIT. 

But here's the thing - I don't know squat about ffmpeg or libav.  All I know is what I've found just trying to figure this out.  I'm sure there are plenty of parties on both sides favoring their way over the other.  Since I am on the outside looking in, I don't have that to worry about.

So, given all of that, yes, I want to convert k9copy to libav.  But the question is larger than that, and that's why I had the k9copy thread closed and opened this one.  It's about trying to convert any program from ffmpeg (not supported by Debian/Ubuntu) to libav.  Why?  It would be nice to have this program available in Ubuntu again.  Trying to do so by telling everyone they need to install ffmpeg probably wouldn't be the best approach - especially if it was to eventually be added to the repos again.  That's the 2 objectives - a guide to converting any program from ffmpeg to libav, and doing so to allow a program to be included in Debian/Ubuntu again (obviously since the split usage of ffmpeg in Debian/Ubuntu will be frowned upon).

As I've said - I'm just a guy, with no knowledge of either and a minimal understanding of programming in C/C++ now, who just wants to know how to convert from ffmpeg to libav.  Things like the AVFormatParameters structure being gone.  Things like the member cur_st of the structure AVFormatContext not being in the header anymore.  And most importantly, a guide to conversion for programs that use such things.  Forget k9copy - while it will be the immediate beneficiary of this - the scope should be for all programs using ffmpeg and needing to go to libav.

I understand just installing ffmpeg, but I'd like to try to stay away from that so that it is easier for a user to install and also to become something that can be included or whatever with ubuntu again.

Thanks!

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-29
So here's another question in this regard.  The avformat.h file I downloaded does say depricated above some of those things causing build problems if I use the default avformat.h.  So, if these are updated to use either some new function or the "new" way to do it, will it be able to build in Debian/Ubuntu using libav and in distributions using ffmpeg both?

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-29
Someone posted in the original thread that got me looking at this in the first place, and someone has already converted k9copy to libav and it is available via some link there.

So, that problem is solved.  However, my question on how to convert a program from ffmpeg to libav still applies.  First off, I guess, would be IS there any difference in programming between the 2?  Is there ANY guide for this?  Are there any simple (like in "For Dummies") introductions and explanations for using the calls in ffmpeg and in libav?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-04-29
Glad you have your problem solved. I never used k9copy (it stopped developing even before I started using Ubuntu. :) ) but there seem to be a relative big fan base out there. Normally when a project dies it just got forgotten but I hear k9copy mentioned still in many places .Wonder why no one steps up to maintain the project or fork it if it is so popular and has no replacement.

BTW cool cat picture. :)

---

### Post by FakeOutdoorsman on 2014-04-29
FFmpeg should be API/ABI compatible with Libav ("Libav", in this case, referring to the Libav fork, not the libav* FFmpeg libraries...such a confusing name for a fork).

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-29
Yeah, like I said before, I don't know anything about this stuff, so it's even more confusing to me ;)  

I have contacted the person who modified the source so it builds in Ubuntu with libav (since it's Ubuntu, I assume that means the fork?).  I asked if they wanted to build a deb and submit it to Ubuntu for approval - waiting on a response from them.  I offered to try to do that for them, but it would still require someone who understands all of this and can program with it to maintain it.  Would there be any takers out there to take over k9copy and make it work with both ffmpeg and the libav fork?  I just don't have the skills to do it or I would.  I assume this would probably require the approval of the originator and maintainer.  But that's only 1 piece of the puzzle to me - I'd still like to learn all of this and what, if any, are the differences for programming with ffmpeg versus programming with (I assume?) the libav fork that Debian/Ubuntu have chosen.  Right now I know nothing about any of this.

Sorry I can't do more - that's why I was looking for some sort of conversion guide.  However, if call for call ffmpeg and libav fork (I can only assume that's what is going on ;) )can build and execute a program, then it shouldn't be too bad.  I may look at the code and see if I can figure out some of it.  It's been way too long for me so I'm just like starting over with the disadvantage of remembering somethings - however incorrectly!  It makes it hard for me to "start over" and try to figure this stuff out.

As always, ANY input is appreciated!  I would really like to learn these things and their differences, and maybe get an idea what processing audio/video involves.  I don't know squat about either, so it is all knew to me.  I assume, and that's what gets me in more trouble, that it's something like open a stream. read/write from the stream, and doing any processing in between via calls to ffmpeg and/or libav.  I know that has to be a huge over simplification ;)

---

