---
title: "8.10 - MSI Neo K8T 2 motherboard sound"
date: 2009-04-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-04-21
I had to sell my "good" computer, so I'm back to an Athlon 64 using a MSI Neo K8T 2 motherboard, and I have been unable to get sound to work.  I tried all of the devices listed in the sound preferences, but none make any sound.  The sound is listed as VIA 8237  Realtek ALC655 Rev 0.  So as dumb as I can be, can someone tell me what I need to do to get the onboard sound working?  I've searched the forum and the net, and I see reference to a driver from Realtek, but nobody seems to have ever gotten their sound working with this card/chipset combo on the motherboard.

Thanks in advance!

Dave :)

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-04-21
OSS claims to support that Via chip.  See the site at the link below:

[http://www.opensound.com/]("http://www.opensound.com/")

Click the Download link on the left of the page, select the type of package you want.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-04-21
Thanks for the reply!  I downloaded and installed that package today, but still no sound.  Not sure what is going on.  The speakers are USB speakers (really cheap ones) that I had used on an older computer running Ubuntu before with no trouble, but that PC had a discreet sound card and a different chipset.  I don't know if the RealTek ALC655 is being the problem - I've seen many posts about it both in the forum and on the net but nobody seems to have gotten it working.  I went to RealTek and downloaded their Linux driver, but it aborted in the configure so I never had it made or installed to try.  They don't appear to have a binary package (only makes sense).

Dave :)

---

