---
title: "2.6.28-18-generic missing from grub"
date: 2010-02-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tommynz1975 on 2010-02-06
the other day I am sure  using

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

2.6.28-18-generic was downloaded and installed, but I do not have it in grub and is not found in a search of the system.

after the install, a box appeared complaining about grub having been manually edited and this is where things may have gone pear shape

Did I imagine having downloaded 2.6.28-18-generic
or may have something else happened? is their a command to show the last items downloaded and installed.

The install I am using is Ubuntu 9.04

Much Thanks

Tom

---

### Post by Pijits_1 on 2010-02-06
The best thing to do would be re-install grub and then go from there. You can do this by inserting the live cd and doing the following: 

open terminal and enter
```
sudo grub
```
```
find /boot/grub/stage1
```
```
root(first number, second number given)
```
```
setup(first number given)
```
```
quit
```

Then reboot the system.

That'll fix grub and get you back into your system. Might want to use update manager to install the latest kernel update or edit grub manually.

Hope this helps

---

### Post by tommynz1975 on 2010-02-06
I have done an  
```
sudo update-grub
```
with the results

Searching for GRUB installation directory ... found: /boot/grub
Searching for default file ... found: /boot/grub/default
Testing for an existing GRUB menu.lst file ... found: /boot/grub/menu.lst
Searching for splash image ... none found, skipping ...
Found kernel: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-18-generic
Found kernel: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-17-generic
Found kernel: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-16-generic
Found kernel: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic
Found kernel: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Updating /boot/grub/menu.lst ... done

menu.1st entrys

```

title        Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-17-generic
uuid        6ecac310-4d40-4a21-b731-c91e3f1a1bda
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-17-generic root=UUID=6ecac310-4d40-4a21-b731-c91e3f1a1bda vga=773
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-17-generic
quiet

title        Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-17-generic (recovery mode)
uuid        6ecac310-4d40-4a21-b731-c91e3f1a1bda
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-17-generic root=UUID=6ecac310-4d40-4a21-b731-c91e3f1a1bda ro  single
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-17-generic

title        Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-16-generic
uuid        6ecac310-4d40-4a21-b731-c91e3f1a1bda
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-16-generic root=UUID=6ecac310-4d40-4a21-b731-c91e3f1a1bda ro quiet splash 
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-16-generic
quiet

title        Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-16-generic (recovery mode)
uuid        6ecac310-4d40-4a21-b731-c91e3f1a1bda
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-16-generic root=UUID=6ecac310-4d40-4a21-b731-c91e3f1a1bda ro  single
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-16-generic
```

is their a way to just manually put in the right kernel entry into grub?

---

### Post by admiralspark on 2010-02-06
usually, one would delete the old kernels through, say, UbuntuTweak, if they're sure the new ones work. IE, I just did a kernel update, then used UbuntuTweak to get rid of the old kernel packages <2.6.31.19, then updated Grub.

EDIT: I do believe there is a graphical way to edit the Grub menu, I am not certain of how though. This works just as well and is faster.

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-02-06
is there an initrd.img file in your /boot folder for this kernel version?

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2010-02-06
```
title        Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-18-generic
uuid        6ecac310-4d40-4a21-b731-c91e3f1a1bda
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-18-generic root=UUID=6ecac310-4d40-4a21-b731-c91e3f1a1bda vga=773
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-18-generic
quiet

```

Try that :D

---

### Post by tommynz1975 on 2010-02-06
> **Leppie said:**
> is there an initrd.img file in your /boot folder for this kernel version?

yes I have  


/initrd.img
/initrd.img.old
/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-generic
/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-16-generic
/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-17-generic
/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-18-generic

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-02-06
then try theozzlives' suggestion ;)

or try upgrading to grub2...

---

### Post by tommynz1975 on 2010-02-06
much thanks

worked like a charm, the edit.

would I guess right to say editing the recovery line 
from  recovery 2.6.28-17-generic
would add the recovery entry to the grub menu?

much thanks again

Tom

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-02-06
> **tommynz1975 said:**
> 
would I guess right to say editing the recovery line 
from  recovery 2.6.28-17-generic
would add the recovery entry to the grub menu?


Yes. Just change the version number in a similar recovery mode entry's title, kernel and init lines.

---

