---
title: "Installing Grub to Drive?"
date: 2011-02-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jaiv on 2011-02-10
Hey, right now I have a 500GB NTFS USB HDD (nothing on it), a 320GB Internal HDD (with Windows 7), and the Ubuntu Live CD (which I am using to write this). I need to boot into Windows 7, and only have Windows 7. I messed up and now when I boot off the Internal HDD it gives me the Grub not found error. I can only boot into the Live CD, and I cannot figure out how to boot Windows 7. Please help me, Thank you.

---

### Post by rcayea on 2011-02-10
This info should help (I got it from this site:[http://essayboard.com/2011/02/08/reinstalling-grub-from-ubuntu-live-cd/](http://essayboard.com/2011/02/08/reinstalling-grub-from-ubuntu-live-cd/))

Dual boot Windows and Ubuntu on the same machine is supposed to be easy, but certain computer makers may have installed special software where it could prevent Grub to work correctly.  If Grub isn’t working, you can’t really boot up Windows or Ubuntu.  Sometimes, it not even possible to access Grub within terminal of Ubuntu live CD. For dual boot to continue to work, one needs to have Grub or something similar to boot an operating system.

A simple solution is to reinstall Grub from Ubuntu live CD.  Ubuntu installs Grub in master boot record, and usually the case is sda1.  If unsure, do command [fdisk -l] without using the square brackets.  After knowing which is the original partition that supposes to hold master boot record, you now need to execute the next two command lines:

sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt /dev/sda

Just remember to replace sda1 with your appropriate partition.  Also, replace appropriate disk/device label for the part it says /dev/sda.  In the case of the code above, /dev/sda is correct if your device is sda.  It’s obvious the device has to be /dev/sda since the partition which holds master boot record is /dev/sda1.

Reboot your machine and Grub should start again.  At this point you should be able to boot into Windows or Ubuntu.  Make sure to remove the unwanted software of computer makers so such software don’t corrupt Grub again.

---

### Post by Jaiv on 2011-02-10
After alot of playing around, I got the Grub to install to the MBR, however after restart and booting the HDD, I got a file not found error. I don't know what the problem is. At the moment, I am installing Ubuntu from the Live CD on my Internal, with all my files on my external. Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-02-10
So you use the words your installing and a grub prompt, the description is to vague to safely tell you what to do.

Lets stop where your at and have a look at the setup click on the bootscript link in my signature follow the instructions, then post all the text in code tags. Code tags are generated by clicking on the **#** in the reply panel, paste all the text between.

---

### Post by sahabcse on 2011-02-10
Pls follow this url for fixing the grun [http://ubuntulinux.co.in/fixing-grub.php](http://ubuntulinux.co.in/fixing-grub.php)

---

