---
title: "9.04 iPod Mounting Issues"
date: 2009-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by abo999 on 2009-05-11
My iPod has been working as expected on 8.10, and also after an upgrade to 9.04.

For some reason, this morning it has stopped appearing on the desktop and in Nautilus when I plug it in. I noticed the problem when I fired up Banshee the app didn't display the iPod.

It does appear to mount; if I check /media/NEAL'S\ IPOD it can be found. Also if I browse there with Nautilus I can see the files.

And, if I start gtkpod my iPod does appear, and I can see my music files displayed correctly there.

Other devices do display as normal, e.g. if I plug my Touch Diamond in it appears on the desktop and in Nautilus.

Can someone please help me out with a bit of diagnostic? I really want to sync and get my podcasts ;)

---

### Post by abo999 on 2009-05-11
Bumping :)

---

### Post by abo999 on 2009-05-12
Solved now, I plugged the iPod into my daughter's machine and the same problem was apparent. Luckily my company laptop is XP, so I installed iTunes there and used it to restore the iPod. It now works fine in Ubuntu. Wonder why it went bad?

---

### Post by mrothgeb on 2009-09-08
i'm having a problem with this too. using the 9.04 Ubuntu and the June realise of Banshee.  My iPod is a nano 3rd gen.  I can see it just fine on my desktop and in /media.

don't know if this will play a factor or not but my media library is on an external HD.

---

### Post by mrothgeb on 2009-09-08
i reset my iPod using my xp machine and so far no luck.

---

