---
title: "12.04 LTS, Updated this morning, won't start Desktop"
date: 2014-01-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tmc0r3 on 2014-01-29
Using Ubuntu Studio 12.04 LTS version on an older laptop due to the catastrophic failure of my more recent laptop.  After much fiddling about had pretty much everything working properly.  Working away this morning (29.01.14) no problems.  Updates appear, download and install, shut down, go away for a few hours.  Home again, and things are not starting up properly.  Most often the whole startup process seems to hang right after a line about timidity which has a message [OK] following it.  When it does pass this point it boots to a command line from which I can do nothing (because beyond switching between directories and apt-get installs I don't know what I'm doing).  Currently booted from USB to see if I can fix this without reinstalling altogether since that could potentially mean that when I update again it will break again.  

Is there a way to undo the most recent updates from the command line?

How can I start the xfce desktop from the command line?

---

### Post by cigtoxdoc on 2014-01-29
I had similar problem earlier this week.  Select the recovery mode at boot and run CLEAN.  Also, keep your data (spreadsheets, documents, etc.) in a separate partition so you can reload the OS w/o destroying your data.

John

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-01-29
tmc0r3; Hi ! Welcome to the Forum .

As your Desktop Environment is xfce4, perhaps there is config problems with the Desktop Manager ?

Let's see if the Desktop will start manually.
What results:
Boot to the terminal - now do not Get scared off ! - Terminal - is your best friend on your system - 
At that terminal input your username, return key;
You are asked now for your pass word, type in your pass word - blindly - there is no response to the screen here, a security feature, enter key once more.

OK now the crucial command to see if the GUI starts:
Terminal command:
```

startxfce4

```

Does your DeskTop start ?
Else:
What does the system tell you when that command is executed ?

[INDENT][INDENT]It is all in the process
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Butthead on 2014-01-29
My keyboard didn't seem to work (couldn't seem to type any text) after yesterdays upgrade.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-01-29
Butthead; Hi !

Different thing, start your thread to get the attention of those who can help with your problem.

ubuntu forum -> one thread = one problem .

[INDENT][INDENT]keep'n it simple
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-30
Hi Bashing-om - I was trying to help someone with a similar problem last week and someone posted that the xserver was updated in one of the updates to 12.04.xx, and caused some graphics controllers not to work anymore - I assume a driver issue.  The result for that user was having to go back to the original 12.04.  I don't know if that is anything that can be of help to you for this OP or not.

- dave -

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-01-30
@ squakie;
Thanks for the heads up.
As a general rule of thumb, if at 1st there is no success, see what state the package manager is in !

[INDENT][INDENT]right tool, for the right job
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Butthead on 2014-01-30
Sorry, I thought this was just a general complain about borked upgrades thread. :lol:

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-01-30
Butthead; Hey,


Off Topic:
Not a problem, it is all a process of learning this forum. We are here to help, but to do so with some manner of efficientcy and maintain some kind of order -> one problem to each thread. General threads are "discussion" threads.

We will meet you in your own thread and deal with whatever the particular problem is you are experiencing. 

[INDENT][INDENT]protocols to get the job done
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

