---
title: "v13.04 install problem"
date: 2014-03-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pete18 on 2014-03-13
OK, I know I am down-rev and will update. But I want to at least install Ubuntu and get going with Linux!
I already have had a clean install on a Dell Inspiron 1721 but did it without a network cable plugged-in. And I was stopped dead with the dialog box for network setup. I was actually thinking the NIC was dead, so installed Win7 and connected OK.
Now I am back at the "Preparing to Install Ubuntu" window and despite having a network cable plugged in, there is an X in the "is connected to the internet" indicator.
How are you supposed to connect if the OS isn't installed?

So the OS installed again without internet access and the first thing I tried to do was connect. I opened the VPN window and entered the MAC address in the field - no good. This MAC is a 12 character alphanumeric - not parsed with colons! It's right on the router label.
So how can I get past this? I'm haven't had a struggle with an OS like this since Windows 95!
Pete

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-03-13
Hi, welcome.

A few comments:

1. First and foremost, install a supported version. It makes absolutely no sense installing a version no longer supported and update later. Why not install any of the currently supported versions (13.10 or, even better, wait a few weeks and then install 14.04 right away)?

2. You don't need internet access to install; it's only more convenient because with it the installer can download updated packets during the process but you can do it later. Why were you "stopped dead" with a network config dialog when you already know there's no network to configure? Just move on without it, ie, DON'T configure network at that point. Really...

3. Why are trying to configure a VPN? Even so - and assuming you really need the MAC address - can't you really figure out how a MAC address looks like? C'mon... If you have a simple router and an Ethernet connection it's DONE! (Unless, of course, you have in that computer one of the rare network chips not natively supported; WiFi is and entirely different 'animal' for sure but Ehternet is usually supported right away).

---

