---
title: "9.10 starts to Wallpaper only"
date: 2010-04-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by thulefoth on 2010-04-24
I started my 9.10 WUBI, which is a couple months old, yesterday morning and it came through all the normal steps normally, but then the screen fills with my wallpaper image and absolutely nothing else.  Mouse works normal.  I have tried selecting previous Linux releases and Recovery mode.  Recovery took some actions, said there was a few downloads & changes indicated, which it performed without drama ... but didn't alter the issue.
 
I can CTRL-ALT-DEL and get the normal exit Dialog.  I can click Help on the Dialog and up comes the right help.  Any other ideas along this line?
 
 I love my Ubuntu.  I made a little mistake going WUBI (and was also bit by the WUBI bug, from which I recovered).  I am preparing heavily for 10.04.  I will try to migrate my WUBI to a partition and make Ubuntu stand-alone.  I have installed a great many packages, all from the Software Center or Synaptic (which reports zero package-issues).
 
 TIA!  Ted

---

### Post by _0R10N on 2010-04-24
No panel? no desktop icons? well, open a terminal and run
```
sudo gconf-editor
```
That will lead you to a window where you can configure several things on your system. Check the configurations under ```
/apps/nautilus/desktop/
```

Kind regards!

_0R10N >>

---

### Post by thulefoth on 2010-04-24
Thanks _OR1ON!  I will have to leave here to try your suggestions.  So first...

That's right - no panel, no icons, screen covered with Wallpaper image.  Mouse moves around Ok, but does not react anywhere, including edges & corners.

The keyboard responds - I can CTRL-ALT-DEL and then get the dialog and take actions.  

I googled for a way to "Open a terminal" (which I've only done from the now-gone UI), and get a mixed bag of results.  One says to use CTRL+Shift+T.  Does that sound right?

If it turns out that I can generally use the keyboard, is there a basic guide online that I can use to get myself up to speed?

---

### Post by thulefoth on 2010-04-24
CTRL + Shift + T didn't open a terminal, or do anything.  Is this a good shortcut to open a terminal?  Is there a different one to try?

---

### Post by thulefoth on 2010-04-24
I got a Bash prompt in Recovery mode.  I entered 

```
sudo gconf-editor
```Bash returned

```
** (gconf-editor:1125): CRITICAL**: Failed to parse arguments: Cannot open display:
```

---

### Post by Silent Warrior on 2010-04-24
I think you have to be logged in at the graphical desktop, not the terminal, to get that particular app to display.

---

### Post by _0R10N on 2010-04-24
Yes, graphical environment must be started.

_0R10N >>

---

### Post by thulefoth on 2010-04-24
Silent Warrior; _OR1ON:  yes, but I have no Desktop or GUI - no IO.  Just a bare screen covered with the wallpaper image.  No "tools".

However, I have made more progress.

Selecting Recovery from the normal startup options, I can end up at the Bash prompt.  Reading more, I saw to try

```
startx
```

That probably doesn't get me a guru-certificate, huh?  :)

But it does get me a GUI!  Not **my** GUI - it's the default 9.10 theme & wallpaper - but it has all the usual tools.

In Application, I see the many programs I've installed, but they are 'dumped' in the default menu-categories ('my' menu-categories are missing).  In the far upper-right corner of the top panel, it says "root", instead of "me".  I'm looking how to change that ... but it normally offers to 'Change User', that's not there now, just 'root'.

_OR1ON, yes, I can now open a Apps > Terminal, bring up gconf-editor, go down and find the Nautilus configs ... but I don't savvy the settings.

Ok, I will go make another pass; try to login as 'me', read up on Nautilus-config.  

Oh - I have noticed before, Ubuntu-Help is very slow on my machine.    Delays between page-loads;  really long delays for word-searches, and finally it appeared to fail - several minutes with the busy-icon going, I bailed.  Is this a known, or a me?  (Older XP machine, 1.25 gH Pentium IV, was .5, now 2 gig ram)

---

### Post by _0R10N on 2010-04-24
wow!! I've been out a few hours, and it seems like I missed a lot of action here. Well, trying to restart from where I left this thread. I think that if you can't perform any action on your desktop, then you're dealing with a serious problem, not one that you can fix form gconf-editor. If you have tried several things with not much progress, then my best advice is: not loose more time trying to solve this issue, reinstall gnome. It'll take less than an hour and it'll clean up any misconfiguration left behind. It might not be the more political, but definetely the more effective.

I recommend this only because of the number of problems you're going through.](*,)

Kind regards!

_0R10N >>

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-04-24
If you can get to a prompt with networking in recovery mode try this:
```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall gdm && sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm
```

---

### Post by thulefoth on 2010-04-25
Yes, lidex, after picking the Recovery mode from the 'standard' (wubi) startup choices of several Linux-version (or revert back to XP), I receive a nicely-formatted table of various Recovery operations & states to select from.  There is Root, and Root + Network.

I had been using 'plain' Root, and then at the (root) prompt, issuing "startx", which then successfully brings up Gnome in the 'fresh install' configuration.  This gives me access to the Ubuntu tools, but not to my account.

I selected the Root + Network option (for the first time), and then input the command string you suggest.  It performed it's operations without incident.  Unfortunately, I then started Ubuntu several different ways, and all of them show the same damage as before.

I am now going to try to 'change some conditions of the contest', from Root-Gnome.  I will for one try to get rid of the Wallpaper image that covers the screen when I follow through with a Normal startup.  From the behavior of the mouse, it appears that there is nothing 'behind' the wallpaper, but maybe I can make sure.

From the root-account, I can run Synaptic, and I am an enthusiastic user of it.  I will look for diagnostic and repair software, and research on the web.  I will also try to recover my e-mail files & other personal docs/files.  

The damaged 'normal' Desktop that comes up instead of My Account, shows a number of clues.  CTRL + ALT + DEL works (with the normal Dialog in my chosen & customized theme-configuration!), as does PRT SC, bringing up the normal Save Screenshot dialog, from which I can surf into Ubuntu Help.  ALT + TAB attempts to cycle me between Windows (except, there are no other windows - I will try to get two windows instanced).  

But, ALT + F1 (Open Apps Menu) does not work, nor does ALT + F2 (Run "name" App).  I have found the standard list of Ubuntu Keyboard Shortcuts, and will go through them from the damaged Desktop.  

Preceding the damage, I had spent the evening in Synaptic, installing a variety of packages, including support for Window Manager systems.  I can remember some of what I did, and will try to find a way to identify By Date what has been recently installed, consider how these packages might be involved, and consider uninstalling them.

I am now using Windows XP for e-mail and browsing (sigh...), so I'm stable and not in a rush.  I can continue working on this issue - it is educational to do the homework! - until such a time as it's a confirmed dead-end.

I will be working away from a connection most of the day; back this evening.

Thank you!

Ted

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-04-25
I might suggest perusing your logfiles for error messages. Namely
```
~/.xsession-errors
/var/log/messages
/var/log/dmesg
/var/log/dpkg.log
```

```
dmesg | less
``` for terminal display of dmesg. For the others the cat command followed by path. Example:
```
cat /var/log/messages
```

---

### Post by _0R10N on 2010-04-28
> **thulefoth said:**
> CTRL + Shift + T didn't open a terminal, or do anything.  Is this a good shortcut to open a terminal?  Is there a different one to try?

There's not a default key combination assigned to open a terminal. You must define it yourself. There's an option under the System->Preferences menu. I think it's named Keyboard Shortcuts (I'm not in front a Ubuntu right now). Then scroll down until you find an entry for assigning a keys combination to the action of opening a terminal. Mine is Alt+Ctrl+T

Kind regards!

_0R10N >>

---

