---
title: "8.04 Newbie"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by oldtom on 2008-04-26
Tried 8.04 as Live CD and got a welcome surprise. Very polished and best to date. Most impressed.

With that in mind, installed Ubuntu 8.04 to co-exist with winXP. Installation went off without a hitch and with my limited knowledge of linux was able to get most things working satisfactorily.

There are however, a few issues that I need some help with, if anyone could be so kind and assist.

BTW, this is the FIRST linux distro that has worked with my webcam. I installed Skype and it just worked. Fantastic! This brings me to my first question. The test image is very dark. I can't see any mention of a Webcam anywhere in the settings menu. How can I adjust the brightness and contrast.

While on the subject of settings, is there any way to change the way the cursor displays. For example, can the arrow be enlarged and the wait circle be changed to say an hourglass.  They are just a bit small for my eyes. Everthing else seems adjustable and fine for my purposes.

Whilst testing I've found two other problems that I can't solve and are a bit worrying.

The installation partitioned my HDD to about 15G and created a bootup menu for win or ubuntu. I have 3 usb sticks and these are the only icons displaying on the desktop. But when I go Places->Home Folder I can see all my usb drives and a second hard drive I have, all correctly identified.
The 2nd HDD is formatted as Fat32 and the sticks are all Fat as well. But my MainHardDrive does not show. It is of course a NTFS formatted partition where my winXP resides. Why has it disappeared. Tried to click on mnt but this directory is empty. How do I get it to show so that I can access the files? 

The interesting thing is that when I open up Fspot and do a File->Import, the partition shows up correctly as MainHardDrive together with all the other drives and sticks. So why can't I access it in the file browser? Also, and this might be related, I've downloaded and installed (and these went off without a hitch) Gxine, Mplayer and VLC. All are showing up in the applications menu but they don't appear as an option to link to in File Browser_>Edit->Media. Only Movie Player and Gxine are displayed as options.  How then can I link a particular player if they are not shown. BTW, before I installed any of these players, only Movie Player showed as an option. Next installed was Gxine and it was shown correctly. But all the remaining players have not appeared. 

Has anyone struck this problem or have a solution. Might be something stupid I'm doing, or a bug. There are some other issues with Gxine and Totem, but enough for now. If I can resolve these points, the other issues might resolve themselves. 

Thankyou 

And one last thing. This version of Firefox 3.ob5 is the fastest browser I've used to date. Great stuff! :) :)

---

### Post by misfitpierce on 2008-04-26
On the note of mouse cursors simple hit System-Preferences-Appearance then hit customize and hit mouse. Change size within those menus. 1 question answered :)

---

### Post by frup on 2008-04-26
> **oldtom said:**
> 
But my MainHardDrive does not show. It is of course a NTFS formatted partition where my winXP resides. Why has it disappeared. Tried to click on mnt but this directory is empty. How do I get it to show so that I can access the files? 

...

All are showing up in the applications menu but they don't appear as an option to link to in File Browser_>Edit->Media. Only Movie Player and Gxine are displayed as options.  How then can I link a particular player if they are not shown.

Typing "sudo fdisk -l" in terminal will show you every partition and device. It might look like giberish but what you need to look for is the drive which is formatted NTFS (right hand side of the lines). Following along to the left of the line which has NTFS see what the drives /dev/sda1 like name is. This is the drives name on linux and is important for you now.

try mounting that to the /mnt folder and if it is the right drive etc make a back up of /etc/fstab and find out how to add an ntfs drive (don't know sorry, ubuntu only here). You will need to unmount it before adding it to fstab and then restart before it loads properly mounted. You can get it to mount to any folder you wish. One in your /home/user/ folder is probably most practical.

As for the other question in the quote about files, click open with on the right click menu and select the program from the list. If it is not in the list find the command that opens the program and try that, it is usually the programs name or package name. Once you have opened it like that Ubuntu should remember.

---

### Post by oldtom on 2008-04-26
Thanks misfitpierce,
Works a treat. Easy when you do it once. Now I can see my pointer. ):P


> **misfitpierce said:**
> On the note of mouse cursors simple hit System-Preferences-Appearance then hit customize and hit mouse. Change size within those menus. 1 question answered :)

---

### Post by oldtom on 2008-04-26
Hi Frup,
Will need a bit of time to absorb your helpful reply. Fingers crossed. Thanks. :):)

---

### Post by oldtom on 2008-04-27
Sort of answered my own question, I think. :confused: 

I installed Ubuntu whilst XP was up and running, and the install was placed in just one folder called "Ubuntu". As my main HDD was not showing in the Places folder in the file browser, I went looking and found it in a folder called "host". Which kind of makes sense by the way I installed ubuntu. Windows IS the host. Is that the correct reading? And as Ubuntu can be removed via the Windows Add/Remove programs, I assume that the boot entry which gives the option of booting into win or ubuntu would also be removed. Am I right here?

What I did was drag the "host" folder to the left side of the file browser and then renamed it HardDrive. Is this accepted practice? BTW, all the drives were mounted at boot which is how I like it. 

Sorry frup, I don't understand your statement about mounting. In the "Mnt" folder which is where I'm used to seeing the drives in other distros, there is nothing as "host" has taken on this role. The HDD is already mounted, so given my explanation above, do I need to do anything further, or have I bumbled my way onto a solution. Using your sudo suggestion found the NTFS drive as /dev/sda1 marked as boot by a star and identified as 160G NTFS which is correct.

Now I have another question. My previous post stated that ubuntu is the first distro where my webcam worked. Quite mystified why, as I've just about torn my hair out trying to get it operational. ](*,) In Ubuntu, I did nothing conciously to make it work. It just happened. So can you enlightened me where I should look to see how it is hooked up software wise. This might be the same spot that will allow me to lighten the picture. I can't find any controls to fiddle with. Also, apart from the picture being dark, the resolution is far far better than windows (using Skype in both cases) and it is far less jerky, almost fluid. Also the light on the camera stays on all the time even when the computer is turned off. This doesn't happen in windows. Is this normal or a bad thing and is there a way for it to be off when I'm not using it.

Lastly, I would like to get Ekiga to go as it's native linux, but it fails when detecting the NAT. A popup explaining something about cone/NAT etc. Now I don't have a clue what any of this means. I think i need to change something but what confounds me. Do you have any knowledge of how to get past this dialogue.

Sorry for so many questions. You can see I'm really a beginner, but I've got a few things worked out that were mountains when I started. So I,m happy at this point.

Maybe others might like to chime in as well if they have any solutions or suggestions. :idea:

Thankyou again

---

