---
title: "10.04 No Dual Monitors after LogOut"
date: 2010-10-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by New-2-Ubun2 on 2010-10-19
I have configured my NVIDIA X Server Display Configuration for Twin monitors, and everything works fine at bootup, but _only for the user who first logs onto the machine_.

If I "Lock Screen" or "Switch From <myuser>", I can come back to my session, with two monitors. However, if I Log Out, then the configuration defaults to single display when I Log In again, and I can't retrieve my second monitor except by rebooting.

ALSO, subsequent users logging in will only have a single monitor

Is there some default GNOME setting that is kicking in for all but the first Log-In at boot ?

Thanks for any and all suggestions !

---

### Post by papibe on 2010-10-19
I think you haven't save your settings to xorg.conf. Go to System -> Administration -> Nvidia X Server Settings -> X Server Display Configuration -> **Save to X Configuration File**

You need to be root to save directly to /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Call Nvidia X Server Settings like this:

```
$ sudo nvidia-settings
```

Good Luck!

---

### Post by New-2-Ubun2 on 2010-10-20
Thanks for the quick reply.

So my etc/X11/xorg.conf file was edited, and the NVIDIA X Server Settings reflects the dual monitors.
What seems to be happening is that these settings are ignored/overridden with a subsequent login, which makes me suspect something in GNOME?  

System->Preferences->Monitors first brings up a dialog box which says "It appears that your graphics driver does not support the necessary extensions to use this tool. Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?" If I answer Yes then the NVIDIA X Server Settings display appears (the same as if I had entered $ sudo nvidia-settings). If I choose No then the Monitor Preferences display says Monitor: Unknown, and nothing seems changeable with this dialog box, with the exception of "Show monitors in panel". "Same image in all monitors" is grayed-out, and "Detect monitors" does not seem to do anything.

Is there maybe some X11 refresh command that would force a re-read of this xorg.conf?

Here is the entire content of /etc/X11/xorg.conf, with Monitor, Device, and Screen customizations for my system:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Thu Apr 22 20:35:23 PD
T 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "HP LA2405"
    HorizSync       24.0 - 76.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 63.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "Quadro FX 3800"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "Twin View" "1"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0:nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP-1:nvidia-auto
-select +1920+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Thanks again for any suggestions what the problem might be or what to try to fix this.

---

### Post by papibe on 2010-10-20
I only see one monitor definition in your xorg.conf. I'm using 2 monitors and I have 2 defs:

```

...
Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL 1907FP"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "SONY TV"
    HorizSync       15.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     58.0 - 62.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection
...

```

Make sure your nvidia-settings is recognizing both of your displays, and then write those changes to your xorg.conf. Just in case, backup your conf file before you start trying:
```
$ sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf  /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old
```

Another trick that solves this kind of problem to some people is to "reload" the settings just as you enter Gnome. To do that go to:

System -> Preferences -> Startup Applications
Look for an Nvidia entry and check that in the command part says: sh -c '/usr/bin/nvidia-settings --load-config-only'

If is not there, create one.

Good Luck!

---

### Post by New-2-Ubun2 on 2011-01-11
sudo nvidia-xconfig --dynamic-twinview issued from the command line will overwrite the configuration file, and the results are persistent across multiple user login/logouts. :popcorn:
Thanks !

---

