---
title: "10.04 query: how to change keyring passwords??"
date: 2012-03-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Old Jimma on 2012-03-19
Hi Community:

For a very bad reason, I had to change all of my passwords.

I noticed that after I did a bunch of my web sites that automatically log me on with an ID and password 
[LIST]
[*] wanted my new password to log me on, and
[*] my computer didn't want to store the new password!
[/LIST]

](*,)

Then I got alot of cryptic messages about a keyring, and that made me nervous. 

I went to:

Applications > accessories > passwords and keyring thing

and looked at the passwords. I could see them but couldn't change them!!

[COLOR="Red"]**How do I change them thangs, y'all???**[/COLOR]

:-k

thanks for your help. I'm a tad concerned that my computer is a fixin' to take me over, instead of t'other way around.


Sincerely,
Phil de Duluthistan

---

### Post by dolphin194 on 2012-03-20
Most likely, your web browser does not store passwords in the keyring. In order for you to change the saved web browser passwords, we need to know what web browser you are using. 

_**Here's how on Mozilla Firefox: **_
[B]1) Go to Edit>>Preferences
2) Change to the Security tab
3) Under "Passwords," click the button labeled "Saved Passwords"
4) Remove the password that is having issues
[/B]Firefox should ask you to remember it the next time.

[U][B]To change your keyring passwords:
[/B][/U][B]1) Go to Applications>>Accessories>>Passwords and Encryption Keys
2) Right click the password you want to change
3) Click "Properties"
4) Expand the "Password" tick and type in your new one.
[/B]

---

