---
title: "8.04 GUI for manual hardware configuration of monitor and graphics driver"
date: 2008-05-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2008-05-12
I've been struggling for weeks to adjust my screen resolution after 8.04 and I think I inadvertently struck gold.
I went to System=>Administration=> Hardware Configure and enabled the third part driver and tested them.
The test failed but it activiated this wonderful GUI that allowed me to manually select the drivers I wanted to load.  It basically wrote out all the stuff that goes into the /ect/X11/..... file.  The Gui showed all the available drivers for monitors and graphic cards.  I clicked on the ones I needed it seemed to go through synaptic to load what ever it needed and wrote out all the goobly gook required by the xconf... file.  I then ran a test on the configuration, it failed, but then I saved the configuration anyway. I rebooted and everthing works great... 

I'm not sure if this form was part of the original 8.04 or part of something I downloaded.  I finally got my screen resolutions working so I don't want to mess with this anymore for fear of not being able to replicate this.  I do have another box that I would like to try this on as well as want to experiment with effects on the box with better resolution.

Is there a way to get to this GUI directly without having a failed test on a third party driver???  Does anyone know what I'm talking about here??  Why is this thing burried in Ubuntu??  

JT

---

### Post by plucky on 2008-05-12
> Is there a way to get to this GUI directly without having a failed test on a third party driver??? Does anyone know what I'm talking about here?? Why is this thing buried in Ubuntu??


Do you mean **Screen and Graphics** 
Right Click on **Applications** and select **Edit Menus** Navigate to **Other** and select and tick **Screen and Graphics** It then appears under Other in the Applications menu.

Or Open a terminal and ```
gksudo displayconfig-gtk
``` is the other way.


Enjoy

Good Luck

---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2008-05-12
That would be the one..... Thanks.....

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-05-12
> **Jonas thomas said:**
> That would be the one..... Thanks.....

Yeah, that's new to Hardy.  It's actually the GTK port of displayconfig for KDE.  It's pretty cool, especially if you have multiple monitors.

---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2008-05-13
I noticed that part with the multiple monitors. (I've been using a Kvm lately to keep the monitors to a minimum, but that feature could be real interesting in the future.)


I was playing around with a little bit yesterday night by using the "gksudo displayconfig-gtk". I was trying configure my other box with the CTX PL9 monitor and 82815 Graphics controller manually but had no success.

I could be off here, but is overall behavior different when you access this program indirectly via Hardware Configuration?

JT

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-05-13
It was new to gutsy and hidden in hardy hence it not being there until you edit main menu.

As far as I know, read something weeks ago, this feature is supposed to disappear eventually.

---

### Post by ubuntu-freak on 2008-05-13
> **philinux said:**
> It was new to gutsy and hidden in hardy hence it not being there until you edit main menu.

As far as I know, read something weeks ago, this feature is supposed to disappear eventually.

 
Yeah that's right, GNOME hid it because it doesn't work perfectly all the time, but neither does auto-configuring, as not all monitors communicate well, or at all. A very GNOME-like decision if you ask me.
 
There is a new GUI tool called URandR though, a frontend for RandR. It's not in the repos yet and may not be ready for the 8.04.1 release, but hopefully it will be.
 
Nathan

---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2008-05-14
My configuration challenges for 8.04 Ubuntu (Gnome) are starting to seem more like work than fun.  Are you saying that Kubuntu (KDE) would have fewer issues??
What the heck, at this point I'm willing to try anything.... One of my goals in my Linux has been to play around with C++ and OpenCascade.  I get the impression the developers seem to prefer KDE over Gnome.
[http://www.opencascade.org/org/gettingstarted/install/lunix/]("http://www.opencascade.org/org/gettingstarted/install/lunix/")

I've been playing around with Linux for 4-5 months.  Sor far I've tried:
Feisty from the back of a book I got from the library(had issues but got it working)
Gutsy (worked like a charm)
Hardy (Pain beyond belief).
I was really impressed how much better Gusty was over Feisty and had eager anticipation to see similar improvements of Hardy over Gutsy.
I'm very much a newbie at this... Are the problems that Hardy having typical or atypical with a new ubuntu release?  Would it be accurate to assume , that primary developement efforts where focused on getting bells and whisles going for the latest hardware first?  
I guess the question I'm having is do I stick it out with Ubuntu or give Kubuntu a whirl??
JT

---

### Post by ubuntu-freak on 2008-05-14
The displayconfig tool wont work any differently in Kubuntu, it's exactly the same thing.
 
Hardy has a new device server (Xorg 7.3) and a new sound server (PulseAudio, instead of ALSA). There are bound to be some issues. Why not stick with Gutsy for a while? If you can't fully configure everything I mean. Hardy 8.04.1 will be released in June I think, with lots of bug fixes and hopefully, the new screens and graphics GUI tool. 
 
Nathan

---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2008-05-15
Hmm... A new sound server also... That explains a few things... My sound isn't working either? I'm sure that the critters will get ironed out... I just very frustrating as a newbie....  June.... for 8.4.1 Is there going to be a countdown calender for that? ;)
Lighthearted sarcasm aside, I started working with linux at the same time as a work friend. Although our problems are different, our frustrations seem to be the same.  Both of us are engineering techno geeks (albeit windows enviroment) and we've really been scratching our heads with the weird Linux idiosyncrasies (bugs??) that are occuring. 

To us this is a challenge, but I got to think that these issues are going to drive the less geeky among us to a mac... (Come to thing of it both of us favor a stick shift in our cars... I wonder if mac users prefer automatics...Sorry.... I digress..

Anyway... it seems that many people post variation of the same questions/problems that seem to go unanswered.  I think sometimes people(myself included) don't know the question to ask or how to ask it.

Is there or has anyone ever considered creating some type adaptive expert help system on the front end on the forum web site?  I would think that such a system could be used to create some standardization on searches.  and could be adapted to the existing frame work by the tags perhaps??...  Answer a series of yes/no questions.... For example..
Do you have a hardware issue? Y/N
If yes... select from the following
Monitor
Sound
etc...

Do you know the type of graphic card you have? Y/N
N enter blah blah into a terminal session and enter the result here:
(  )

You get the idea.... Answering a series variable questions would get someone there exact answer and would create new post with standardized tags when needed.
I have really have been excited by Ubuntu Linux and frustrated by my lack of knowlege of what question to ask and how to ask it.... I've got to think that the guru's who frequent this site must get bored by people asking variations of the identical question... I can't imagine that I'm the first person to suggestion this.... Does such a expert system gui exist somewhere in Ubuntuland?? If not, how does one go about getting something like this going?
JT

---

### Post by ubuntu-freak on 2008-05-15
It's released July 3rd actually.
 
Your sound doesn't work at all? Try navigating to System > Preferences > Sound and explicitly select PulseAudio. If that doesn't work, select ALSA instead. You will have to tell some apps that you've switched to ALSA, in their preferences.
 
Nathan

---

