---
title: "12.04 wireless problems..."
date: 2012-10-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Bartek90 on 2012-10-16
Hey there,
for some time I've been fighting with wi-fi hiccups on my 12.04 wubi installation. At the beginning, network manager used to say that connection had been established, but in practice I could only load a single website or two before it stopped working (still shown as "established" tough).

I read something about name resolving on 12.04 and tried disabling dnsmasq by commenting appropriate line in networkmanager.conf and restarted the Nm; worked for a while, but problems returned. So I uncommented that line, then restarted Network manager and reconnected. Even tough it was just returning to previous state, wi-fi seemed to work well. For some time. Tried deleting resolv.conf (I read somewhere that it can help) but it just killed the dns connections. Luckily, I'd made a backup and brought it back soon after.

Then I had an idea that the wi-fi drivers may not work well. Gosh, I really wish I hadn't followed that idea... I installed ndisgtk (the windows drivers utility) and tried to install win rtl8188CE driver from Realtek website (the one that contains .inf file). First I had problems due to ndiswrapper, but apt-get install ndiswrapper-dkms solved it. After all of that, I rebooted.

Now the wi-fi, which has been crappy (but present) is now entirely gone. Lshw -C network says that the wifi hardware is unclaimed. I got rid of that win driver and ndiswrapper, then tried to install another driver from Realtek website (one dedicated for Linux). Followed the readme, compiled it using make and installed by make install. Resulted in no change...

I guess I have horribly messed the whole thing up... I started to believe that I should stick with some idiot-proof system like Win7. I still remember the time when I tried to fix the missing battery indicator on Ubuntu and crashed the bootloader as a result ;)      

Specs:
Ubuntu 12.04 Wubi 64-bit
Toshiba L650 i5-2410m 6GB Ram
Realtek 8188CE Wireless LAN

I'd appreciate any help. 
Cheers

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-10-16
Hi , 

Boot from a LiveCd/Usb (if you don't have one , it will be good idea to create one) and go to "Try Ubuntu" session. 
Open a terminal and give the result of bellow commands 
```
lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net 
lsusb
lsmod
sudo lshw -C network 
dmesg | grep -ie firm -ie wlan -ie net -ie ath
```

Put the results between the brackets **[noparse]```
Here
```[/noparse]** so can be readable.

I am not supporting wubi installations. Wubi installations are Virtual installations only to test for some months the OS.  Wubi install is different and can act different from a regular install, so I prompted  you to boot from a LiveCD-Usb (pure Ubuntu). 

Thanks

---

