---
title: "12.04 locks up if idle more than 20-30 minutes"
date: 2014-05-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Timothy_Cota on 2014-05-12
My 12.04 has been installed for about a week.  After two day it started freezing up every time I left it idle for more than a 20-30 minutes.  This happens whether I leave the desktop open or log out.  Oddly, when I come back I can move the mouse until I click on something.  As soon as I click once it freezes.  It is spoiling an otherwise wonderful maiden voyage.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-14
What happens if instead of clicking the mouse you instead either press the space bar or the enter key?

---

### Post by Timothy_Cota on 2014-05-14
Squakie:  Thanks for your interest.  I am currently doing a complete wipe of the hard drive after which I will re-install 12.04.  If I still have the same problem I will try what you asked and get back to you.   unktim

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-14
Might I suggest you try the live media of 14.04 and see how that works for you?  As long as you are doing a complete wipe and reinstall, why not try the "latest and greatest"?  ;)

---

### Post by Timothy_Cota on 2014-05-14
I have 14.04 on my wife's computer.  Had it on mine but had a lot of problems.  Will probably reinstall it in a few weeks.  unktim

PS:  Beautiful cat.  We just lost a 16 year old.  I buried her at the end of the garden and will build a cairn this summer.  She was my sweetheart.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-14
I'm so sorry for your loss.  I just went through that about 1 1/2 years ago when my Buddy of 16+ years had just gotten too sick and looked at me one day with those "it's time" eyes.  I stayed with him at the vet until he was gone - I owed that to him after all he was to me.  I adopted this big guy a few months later.  Just as with people, they all have their individual personalities, and his is quite different from Buddy's. I've gotten him to "give" a little on some things, and he has just started trusting me more and more in the last 8 months or so.  He is a good friend.  I'm handicapped so it helps having a friend like that around.

---

### Post by Timothy_Cota on 2014-05-15
Thanks squakie   unktim

---

