---
title: "9.04 repo error, need help"
date: 2009-06-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by TechDragon on 2009-06-03
I have check boxed everything in the repo selection in synaptic.  But ubuntu-restricted-extras does not appear.  it is like it did not reload correctly.  I have removed the checkmarks hit reload and rechecked them and hit reload.  But it doesn't work

Any ideas?

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-06-03
You need to add Medibuntu repos (becuase the -extras pkg contains nonfree/license-restricted codecs): 

here

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu#Adding%20the%20Repositories](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu#Adding%20the%20Repositories)

---

### Post by Tibuda on 2009-06-03
> **logos34 said:**
> You need to add Medibuntu repos (becuase the -extras pkg contains nonfree/license-restricted codecs): 

here

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu#Adding%20the%20Repositories](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu#Adding%20the%20Repositories)

You don't need medibuntu for ubuntu-restricted-extras, which is on multiverse. You need medibuntu for libdvdcss2 and w32codecs.

TechDragon: try installing it from the terminal, and if there's a message:
```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-06-03
> **danielrmt said:**
> You don't need medibuntu for ubuntu-restricted-extras, which is on multiverse. You need medibuntu for libdvdcss2 and w32codecs.

TechDragon: try installing it from the terminal, and if there's a message:
```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```

that's right

what was I thinking

---

### Post by TechDragon on 2009-06-03
okay the command line works, so how do i fix my synaptic?

---

### Post by SOULRiDER on 2009-06-03
The only thing i can think of is hitting the refresh button in Synaptic. Its weird, because you have the repos enabled, what apt-get can see Synaptic should be able to see too.

---

### Post by TechDragon on 2009-06-03
very strange, after installation it doesnt show up in synaptic either.

maybe a re-install?

---

