---
title: "10.04 Split .m4v video without re-encode"
date: 2010-09-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Stigmata13 on 2010-09-23
Hello. I'm running Ubuntu 10.04, 32-bit. I have a .m4v video file; its about 1.7 gigabytes and i need to split it into four parts, without re-encoding it. Does anyone know any simple ways to do this? Thanks.

---

### Post by Paul820 on 2010-09-23
**lxsplit**
> sudo apt-get install lxsplit

It's a command line program, don't be scared it's easy :) Example of commands:
>  -j : join the files beginning with the given name
 -s : split the given file.  requires a valid size

lxsplit -s hugefile.bin 15M
lxsplit -j hugefile.bin.001

---

### Post by Stigmata13 on 2010-09-23
> **Paul820 said:**
> **lxsplit**


It's a command line program, don't be scared it's easy :) Example of commands:

Thanks, I guess thats one way of doing it. I was actually hoping for a way to split it at time positions in the video, not size, as it's from a dvd i own and all the episodes (4) were put into one big video file, and I'd like to have a file for each without re-encoding and taking another hit to the video quality.

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2010-09-23
Try ffmpeg, something like this:
```
ffmpeg -ss 00:30:00 -t 1800 -i infile.m4v -acodec copy -vcodec copy - scodec copy -map 0.0 -map 0.1 -map 0.4 outfile.m4v
```

This seeks 30 minutes into the file { -ss 00:30:00 } and copies 30 minutes { -t 1800 }

You may need to remove { -map 0.4 } which is in there for subtitles

---

### Post by Stigmata13 on 2010-09-23
> **Jose Catre-Vandis said:**
> Try ffmpeg, something like this:
```
ffmpeg -ss 00:30:00 -t 1800 -i infile.m4v -acodec copy -vcodec copy - scodec copy -map 0.0 -map 0.1 -map 0.4 outfile.m4v
```This seeks 30 minutes into the file { -ss 00:30:00 } and copies 30 minutes { -t 1800 }

You may need to remove { -map 0.4 } which is in there for subtitles

I'll give that a shot, thanks.

---

### Post by oldmankit on 2010-12-03
```
ffmpeg -ss 00:00:01 -t 00:02:46 -i encyclopoidia.m4v -acodec copy -vcodec copy - scodec copy -map 0.0 -map 0.1 ./outfile.m4v
```Results in "Unable to find a suitable output format for 'pipe:'"

Any ideas?  

```
ffmpeg -formats | grep m4v
```shows
 DE m4v             raw MPEG-4 video format

---

### Post by FakeOutdoorsman on 2010-12-05
> **oldmankit said:**
> ```
ffmpeg -ss 00:00:01 -t 00:02:46 -i encyclopoidia.m4v -acodec copy -vcodec copy - scodec copy -map 0.0 -map 0.1 ./outfile.m4v
```Results in "Unable to find a suitable output format for 'pipe:'"

Any ideas?  

```
ffmpeg -formats | grep m4v
```shows
 DE m4v             raw MPEG-4 video format

There is an errant space in your command.  Change "- scodec copy" to "-scodec copy".

---

### Post by oldmankit on 2010-12-06
> **FakeOutdoorsman said:**
> There is an errant space in your command.  Change "- scodec copy" to "-scodec copy".

Sorry that you had to find a basic error like that - I should've checked more thoroughly.

Removing the space led to another error - mismatched number of streams. I worked out that that was because I had -scodec but was not encoding any subtitles.  Removing -map 0.4 wasn't enough, I had to remove -scodec as well, so that there were just two streams.

So the final (working) command was like this:
```
ffmpeg -ss 01:33:34 -t 312 -i encyclopoidia.m4v -acodec copy -vcodec copy -map 0.0 -map 0.1 ./out.m4v
```

Thank you for the help.

---

### Post by FakeOutdoorsman on 2010-12-06
Do you even need the **-map** options? They tell FFmpeg which steams you want to process. For example, if the input has multiple audio streams, and you only want one in the output, you can use map to choose which stream you want.

---

### Post by oldmankit on 2010-12-06
> **FakeOutdoorsman said:**
> Do you even need the **-map** options? They tell FFmpeg which steams you want to process. For example, if the input has multiple audio streams, and you only want one in the output, you can use map to choose which stream you want.

Thinking about it, no, I don't need them.

---

### Post by jka4321 on 2011-04-07
split -b 500000k name of file you want to split.m4v

---

