---
title: "13.10: Problems when resuming after shutdown or suspend"
date: 2013-12-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by brayavalani on 2013-12-25
When I shut down my machine, if I turn it back on and attempt to boot into ubuntu, on the first restart it hangs at a purple screen. If I then force shutdown and restart again, it hangs at a blank boot screen indefinitely. I usually have to force shutdown and restart several more times for it to finally boot ubuntu. Windows 7, which I am dual booting, boots fine and on the first try.

Sometimes, when I suspend by closing my computer's lid, upon opening it and pressing a key the screen only displays black and I can hear the fan running, but it doesn't respond. The computer also does not re-suspend if I close the lid again.

When resuming after shutdown ubuntu gives me error popups saying "system program problem detected." and "ubuntu 13.10 has experienced an internal error." Attached below are the details from the latter report - I'm a beginner, so I don't really understand what it's telling me beyond that one of the programs installed is causing a problem. I would really appreciate it if someone tells me what I should do in order to fix this problem.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-12-25
How much RAM does this machine have? And how big is your swap partition? 

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq)

Regards.

---

### Post by brayavalani on 2013-12-25
The RAM is stated as 7.7 GiB. Assuming I checked the swap correctly, it is 6.0 GB.

---

### Post by egeezer on 2013-12-25
I had some suspend problems on a Lubuntu 13.10 installation, but solved them by using the terminal to suspend:

```
sudo pm-suspend
```

Seemed to work better for me than suspending via the GUI.

---

### Post by brayavalani on 2013-12-25
Thanks for that work-around, but I would still appreciate help on the original problem as simply suspending by closing the lid is slightly faster and I don't want to trigger a problem if I forgot to suspend via terminal and just shut the lid.

---

### Post by cessanfrancisco on 2013-12-27
Sounds like your swap partition is too small.  The swap partition should be at least as big as the amount of RAM you have.

---

### Post by brayavalani on 2013-12-27
Thanks. Do you mind instructing me on how to increase my swap partition? How much bigger than my RAM should it be?

Also, why would the swap partition be set so low in the first place if it needs to be at least as big as my RAM size?

---

### Post by cessanfrancisco on 2013-12-27
I'm not sure why it would be set lower than your RAM.  Did you upgrade to more RAM after you installed Ubuntu?  Perhaps you accidentally made some changes to the swap partition size when installing Ubuntu.  

You can use GParted on a live USB.  You can make a live USB of a distro that has GParted bundled with it, or, I believe, if you go to the GParted website you can make a live USB of just GParted.  Once you do this, you can boot into the live USB and change your partition size using GParted.  Be careful and back up all data first!  

Another option would be to try reinstalling Ubuntu and make sure you do not alter the default partition sizes during installation.

Typically the swap partition should be as big as the amount of RAM.  Back in the old days they said the rule of thumb was the swap partition should be one and half to two times greater than your RAM.  For me, I get good results with matching the swap size with the amount of RAM.  

Good luck!

---

### Post by cessanfrancisco on 2013-12-27
Additionally, you may want to check out the link provided by grahammechanical earlier in this thread.

---

### Post by cessanfrancisco on 2013-12-28
To address your problem with the hang up on the purple screen, I have the same issue.  However, it seems to have gotten better, but not fully remedied.  I would say I still have the hang up issue about 10% of the time.  With each round of updates it seems to improve.

---

