---
title: "9.04 boot process hangs on 'Starting Bluetooth'..."
date: 2009-05-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by e&gt;&lt;ogenic on 2009-05-17
Hi all :)

I've been trying for several days now to get my wireless internet working with Ubuntu 9.04 with no success so far.

First someone helped me install a new driver ( [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1159121](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1159121) ) which was successful but left Ubuntu unable to detect any wireless networks. I made a post about that ( [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1160391](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1160391) ) but have had no luck so far.

I decided to take it upon myself to try installing Ndiswrapper, but now Ubuntu won't boot - it hangs at 'Starting Bluetooth'. This must somehow be related to my installation of Ndiswrapper.

I've read a lot of people having problems with my wireless adapter (Linksys WUSB11 v2.6) and have heard of some people getting it working, but can't find any definitive instructions on how to get up-and-running.

If I'm beating a dead horse, just tell me :D

I'm quite happy to do a clean install from the CD if it helps simplify things!

---

### Post by e&gt;&lt;ogenic on 2009-05-18
Bump - still stuck :(

---

### Post by Henk Poley on 2009-06-28
Hmm.. I'm seeing the same thing. Waiting with "Starting bluetooth" as the last message, with no [OK] to the right. Except I did not change any hardware, and do not have wireless. But did update ubuntu via aptitude. Tried adding a bluetooth stick, does not change anything.

I can do [Alt]+[F2], log in to console, and run `sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start` just fine. I wonder what Ubuntu uses for init/rc this time of the year, maybe I could find the problem there.

My problem, is probably unrelated to e><ogenic's

Booting older kernels does not help.

[Edit] "Solved" it by going back to my PS/2 mouse. Probably something around USB mice/touchpads broke. I tried with the keyboard+touchpad of my Tablet PC too (and just bluetooth dongle = hang too).
[Edit] Found it doesn't hang with a USB card adaptor thingy. So it's not all USB. Maybe just something HID (mouse, keyboard, etc.)

---

### Post by jackmetal on 2009-07-24
Just blew away 8.10 and installed 9.04 on my media center and I'm getting this bluetooth hang also.  

What a PAIN!

I'm trying a couple things (since I don't use bluetooth on this one)..  I may remove the startup/shutdown rc files (because it hangs on shutdown too).

---

### Post by Phil Hansen on 2009-07-24
Had the same problem and traced it to the USB printer.
Switch printer off, reboot and all works fine. Switch printer back after reboot.
HTH

---

### Post by jackmetal on 2009-07-26
Doh....  Forgot to post my fix earlier...  :-)

Mine turned out to be Bluetooth...  I don't use it on this system, so I disabled the service and it works perfect..

---

