---
title: "Desktop doesn't load, only white screen after update"
date: 2009-06-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by KWhistle on 2009-06-24
Help please!

I updated my computer a couple days ago, just the regular auto update thing.  It asked for a restart.  After that my screen just goes white instead of starting with the normal desktop.  I searched around and it seems to be a problem that a few people are having.  As for solutions, my computer works, but resolution is bad, if I edit xorg.conf file to use vesa driver.  

So it seems that the problem is in the drivers.  I saw some solutions for ATI cards, but mine is intel.

Would really appreciate any help, because as of now my computer is practically useless.

---

### Post by Tews on 2009-06-24
1. Open Nautilus as root

```


gksudo nautilus

```

2. Open xorg.config .. ~etc/X11/xorg.config

3. Try a screen section that looks something like (replace 1440 and 900 with your preferred resolution):

```


   Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes      "1440x900"
		Virtual	1440 900
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

save, then reboot, and use the Display tool to change screen res.

This should fix your problem

---

### Post by KWhistle on 2009-06-24
I just tried, and it didn't work.  My screen was all jittery, but that's all.  Would really appreciate any other suggestions.  

Is there any way to get my intel drivers to work the way they did before the upgrade?

---

### Post by prvteprts on 2009-06-24
Looks like there's a problem between the new kernel and driver. Try using the "nv" driver just to get X to run. And then from there, try uninstalling and reinstalling the recommended driver.

---

### Post by KWhistle on 2009-06-25
Just tried that.  That didn't work either.

---

### Post by Divider on 2009-06-25
For intel I think your issue is your config, anyone know the name of the intel drivers package?

---

### Post by KWhistle on 2009-06-25
My current conf is this:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Option          "AccelMethod"                   "uxa"
        Option          "EXAOptimizeMigration"          "true"
        Option          "MigrationHeuristic"            "greedy"
        Option          "Tiling"                        "true" # i8xx users: set to false
        Driver          "vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection


I tried changing driver to "intel" or just erasing the option (which is what I had before it stopped working), but that doesn't work, I still get the white screen.

Really hope that I don't have to reinstall and lose all my settings.

---

### Post by Gaweph on 2009-06-25
Make a backup of your xorg:

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.config /etc/X11/xorg.backup.config 

Then Try:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Which should rebuild your Xorg file.

---

### Post by KWhistle on 2009-06-25
Tried that, didn't help. :(  Think I'll just reinstall.

---

### Post by philcamlin on 2009-06-25
reinstall sounds liek your only hope :(

---

