---
title: "802.11g USB Wireless Adapter help"
date: 2009-03-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by joec369 on 2009-03-02
Hello, I am very new to Ubuntu and Linux in general.  I just installed and everything worked great until I tried to use my TP-Link Wireless USB adapter.  The model number is TL-WN422G.  I was wondering if it is possible if I can use this on Ubuntu.  I have a driver cd, but it comes only with windows drivers.

I checked the manufacture website, but they don't have any drivers for linux.  Any help would be greatly appreciated.

Thank, Joe

---

### Post by sharke on 2009-03-02
Joe
Although this device is not supported by the latest  kernel used  in ubuntu 8.10 it is still possible to get working by patching the driver & recompiling the kernel . I would not reccomend doing this if you are not expirienced with linux kernel compile.

The driver is in the kernel but has not beem patched to suit your device.

regards
Sharke

---

### Post by morfeasrev on 2009-05-01
Does tp-link tl-wn422g work out of the box on ubuntu jaunty 9.04???

---

### Post by Roadbloc on 2009-05-01
Try using ndiswrapper. It enables you to use windows drivers for wireless cards. It worked for me. Once you've installed ndiswrapper just slelect the .inf file to compile with it. Piece of cake.

heres how to get it
```
sudo apt-get install ndisgtk
```

Hope it helps.

---

### Post by TheLions on 2009-05-01
try here:
[http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/wireless-internet/135530-tl-wn422g-wireless-usb-adapter.html](http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/wireless-internet/135530-tl-wn422g-wireless-usb-adapter.html)

---

### Post by tksee55 on 2009-06-30
> **morfeasrev said:**
> Does tp-link tl-wn422g work out of the box on ubuntu jaunty 9.04???

i know it's a bit late to answer your question. but for the benefit of someone else who might have got here through searching, yes, tl-wn422g does work out of the box with jaunty 9.04 ):P

---

### Post by noosphere on 2009-07-12
I bought one today, and with Mint it's out of the box;)

Run perfect ;)

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-07-12
thank you for these latest reports of success!

the unwashed masses thank you dearly!

.

---

### Post by teec on 2010-05-04
I have installed Ubuntu 9.04 on my laptop.

I plugged in my TP-Link TL-WN422G v2 and nothing showed up when I went to iwconfig.

Since, I did an update via the update manager, as well as "sudo apt-get update", as well as "sudo apt-get install build-essential" and have restarted the laptop (adapter is still plugged in).  Still no wireless connections show up.

I did the command "sudo apt-get install ndisgtk", and it ran successfully.  I followed the instructions at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper) for installing the Ndiswrapper properly.  However, after downloading all the files, I could not run the commands:
sudo dpkg -i ndiswrapper-common_*.deb
sudo dpkg -i ndiswrapper-utils-*.deb
sudo dpkg -i ndisgtk_*.deb

Can anybody help with getting the TP-LINK TL-WN422G v2 to work?  Ideally, I would like to use it with aircrack-ng.

Thanks :)

---

### Post by mortis1369 on 2010-05-22
try running the GUI for NDISwrapper... its under system>admin>windows wireless drivers

the .inf file MUST be present in order to use this method to install a driver.

---

### Post by bayvista on 2010-10-24
When I try to install the 'inf' file which I copied from my Windows installation,to Lucid, I get a message saying 'invalid driver'. The driver is netathuw.inf and I am using the GUI. The TL-WN422G works fine on Windows. Any suggestions are welcome.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-10-24
You need both the Windows XP .inf and .sys files for your adapter and be sure they are both in the same folder.  These driver files can only be for Windows XP.


Dave ;)

---

### Post by bayvista on 2010-10-25
Thanks, Dave. I think the problem may be with Ndiswrapper. I have the following three XP files copied from my XP directory to one folder on Lucid:

netathuw.inf
netathuw.cat
athuw.sys

I'm going to try a Belkin  dongle which someone else claims to have got working. I'll let you know how it goes.
David

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-10-25
One thing to keep in mind:  if you tried once to install with ndiswrapper and it failed, there is probably a bad entry that needs to be removed before you will have any success trying again.

I really advocate using ndisgtk, but there is also a place for command line access to ndiswrapper, and this is one of those times.

- open a terminal window (applications/accessories/terminal)
- type:

sudo ndiswrapper -l <press enter>  That's a lower case "L" for "list"

- If anything is returned from the above:

sudo ndiswrapper -e xxxxxx <press enter> where "xxxxxx" is the name of the driver/device returned

- repeat the above until nothing is returned by ndiswrapper

- cd xxxxx <press enter> where "xxxxx" is the folder containing your Windows drivers

- type:

sudo ndiswrapper -i xxxxxx <press enter>  Where "xxxxxx" is the driver .inf file name

sudo ndiswrapper -l <press enter> Lower case "L" again - what does it return?

Also:

- be sure you are using Windows XP drivers
- can't remember for sure, but I *think* you have to match the driver type to the OS type - 32 or 64 bit.  Not positive on this as I've never needed to make the choice.

Dave ;)

BTW - if you do the above, it is not enough to get your wireless working as there are still a few more steps left.  I just want to see the output of the list after you delete everything in ndiswrapper.

---

### Post by bayvista on 2010-10-25
Hi Dave,
Tried your suggestion, but no luck. I have attached the output. 
I bought a Belkin F5D7050AU yesterday. Plugged it in and it connected without any problem. It's only 54mbps and noticeably slow, but at least it works. I'll look around for a faster model.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-10-25
Hummmmmm - are you running 32 bit or 64 bit Ubuntu?  Were the drivers for 32 or 64 bit Windows XP?

Not sure why they're not taking - the only thing I can think of is some sort of mismatch at this point.

At least you did good and have another adapter that does work!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by bayvista on 2010-10-26
I'm running 32 bit Lucid. Where did you get your drivers from? The CD or elsewhere?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-10-28
All I can think of at this time is to go to the actual manufacturers website and download the Windows XP drivers that they have, even if the file names are the same.

Then, go through the above post just through the removal - e.g., until the ndiswrapper list is empty. Don't do the install from the command line.  Go back and use ndisgtk again (System/Administration/Windows Wireless Drivers or some such thing).

Post back what happens with that.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by bayvista on 2011-03-27
I have tried the various ideas in this forum to no avail. I just can't load the drivers. I keep getting "invalid drivers' message. Have tried latest 2000-xp drivers, also Aug 2009 drivers. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by cabronsaim on 2012-06-03
Hi, the fix for this TP-LINK usb wireless adapter is here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11996354#post11996354](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11996354#post11996354)

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2012-06-04
Old thread closed.

---

