---
title: "my xorg.conf file"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cmcfarland21 on 2008-04-25
Since upgrading from Gutsy to Hardy everything runs slow.  Below is my xorg.conf file.

Plus I can't see or change my screen res.
The X Server does not support the XRandR extension.  Runtime resolution changes to the display size are not available.

Any ideas

ATI video card Xpress 200


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-04-25
have you tried running ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` carefully reading the dialogue and answering the questions?

You could also attempt to run it with the -phigh option to bypass most of the questions. It may rewrite the file more to your liking:```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

---

