---
title: "bad 10.4 update"
date: 2010-10-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by papahonk on 2010-10-19
installed off my 9.10 disk.  upgraded with the ubuntu software center.  time fluctuated  with teh  wide range of down load speeds any where  from 169Kbs to 16 Kbs  the whole process took about 3 hours  in which i got alot of errors like 

linux-image 2.6.32-25- generic-pae is installed  cant configure 

Python-egenix-mxtools, python-appindicator, vino and firefox all had subprocess installed post installation script returned error  exit status 139 

im posting this from said computer  fire fox has crashed 3 times now

---

### Post by aeronutt on 2010-10-19
Did you checksum the iso you downloaded?  I recently downloaded the iso for 10.04, and due to slowwww download speeds on DSL, it took 3 tries before I got it right. There were no download errors on the first 2 tries, but the md5 checksum didn't match.  And, the bad iso's actually started the install process.

---

### Post by papahonk on 2010-10-19
this was the upgrade for the software center on the computer. I don't know how to do a check sum on that. im downloading 10.10 ISO as we speak i know how to check that md5 before i burn it. tried  the 64 bit 10.4  and i had a really bad time with it  going back to the 32 bit. see if that helps been fighting it  for about a week now... even tried fatdog but that is way over my head... seem to run really fast just couldnt do alot with it since i didnt know what i was doing. the update manager wanted me to post a file to ubuntu so they can see... i dont remember how it put it but i wasnt sure yet how to get it when firefox crashed again and then the computer locked up after a hard stop and reboot  all i got was command line which i sadly dont know much about yet.  but im just going to  try  burning a disk to see if i have better luck with that.  just wasted  3.5 to 4 hours  with  the software center  with nothing but a none usable desktop ugh im going to bed tomorrow will be a better day ( i hope)

---

