---
title: "9.04 is looking great so far, but...."
date: 2009-04-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by MikesGuitar on 2009-04-24
Just finished installing 9.04 on my laptop and it is looking good aside from a few small problems. 
1. My flash player is being a little weird. I downloaded and extracted it, by on myspace, the music player never shows up.
2. My sound is barely audible at max volume. Not sure how to fix these problems

Any suggestions? I haven't had too much tinker time to try and fix any of this, and don't want to mess up anything! Thanks

---

### Post by MikesGuitar on 2009-04-24
Also, videos do not automatically play. Instead a huge play icon pops up and requires that I click it to start a video. This happened when I initially installed 8.04 and I was able to fix it from help given in the forums, so I know it can't be too bad of a problem.

---

### Post by RichardLinx on 2009-04-24
In Firefox go to "Tools > Add-ons > Plugins" and check if you have "Shockwave Flash 10.0 r22" installed.

---

### Post by Methuselah on 2009-04-24
Sounds like you don't have adobe flash but maybe swfdec or gnash.

---

### Post by ubuntu27 on 2009-04-25
> **MikesGuitar said:**
> 
1. My flash player is being a little weird. I **downloaded and extracted** it, by on myspace, the music player never shows up.



Hello MikeGuitar. Looks like you install Flash manually. 
You will have to uninstall flash first and install it properly by

installing the package "[flashplugin-installer]("apt://flashplugin-installer")" from Synaptic Package Manager or with the Terminal

```
sudo apt-get install flashplugin-installer
```

> **MikesGuitar said:**
> 2. My sound is barely audible at max volume.

I don't know how to fix that. But, I know how to "improve" it.

You have to install [PulseAudio Device Chooser]("apt://padevchooser") from Add/Remove.

When you finish installing it executing it, PA Device Chooser should be on the right hand corner.
Click on it and choose "Volume Control"


Hope that helps.

---

### Post by MikesGuitar on 2009-04-25
Thanks for the help guys, but how exactly do I uninstall flash?

---

### Post by HeirPixel on 2009-04-25
> **MikesGuitar said:**
> Thanks for the help guys, but how exactly do I uninstall flash?
The easiest way to uninstall a package when you don't know the exact name is to open Synaptic Package Manager and type what you think is the name into the search bar. In this case, type in *flash* and see what flavour is installed.

---

### Post by BhumibolTheGreat on 2009-04-25
you can also right click on any flash item, and choose the "play" menu and set it to "auto play all"
this will automatically play all flash items without the need to hit the big play icon. 

worked for me.

---

### Post by MikesGuitar on 2009-04-25
OK, so I did everything I could think of to fix the problem. Movies are working fine now, but for some reason the myspace music player still does not come up. Anyone know why this might be?

---

