---
title: "9.10 Bootup"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-10-29
When I try to boot my 9.10 upgrade  I get "out of range" flashing on my monitor and do not fully boot. If press escape then the system boots up. How to fix? I did have a kernel warning but ran the update mgr again and that

bug seems to have left even though it said my sys was up to date.

---

### Post by northern lights on 2009-10-30
The "out of range" refers to the refresh rate.

It being out of range means your graphics device is set to output a higher refresh rate than your monitor can handle at that resolution.

Change your graphics settings.

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-10-30
> **rosswmcgee said:**
> When I try to boot my 9.10 upgrade  I get "out of range" flashing on my monitor and do not fully boot. If press escape then the system boots up. How to fix? I did have a kernel warning but ran the update mgr again and that

bug seems to have left even though it said my sys was up to date.

Seeing as you upgraded you've probably got a residual xorg.conf thats causing the problem. Try renaming xorg.conf to e.g xorg.conf.back and rebooting. Karmic's default for a clean install is to not have this file.

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-10-30
Ok I went to system display set refresh rate to 70 and then 75 from the original

60 hz. So is this what you meant you wanted me to do? Because it made no difference

in the boot problem and I am still getting the crash report "your system encountered a serious kernel 

problem.

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-10-30
If its this bug ignore it.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kerneloops/+bug/422536](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kerneloops/+bug/422536)

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-10-30
Yes that is the bug, will they correct it? I will take your advice now what about the

out of range problem?

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-10-30
I cannot save the file the way you describe! 
In red it says could not save the file /etc/X11/e.g xorg.conf

However the system does seem to boot up after a sequence of "out of range"

so all I am left with now is the bug problem. " titled crash report "Your system has encountered a serious kernel problem.

---

### Post by n45w73 on 2009-10-30
> **philinux said:**
> Seeing as you upgraded you've probably got a residual xorg.conf thats causing the problem. Try renaming xorg.conf to e.g xorg.conf.back and rebooting. Karmic's default for a clean install is to not have this file.


Hi,  

I found that Karmic does'nt have xorg.conf file,  can someone post a default minimal xorg.conf,  I need to configure it with defaul resolution for and headleess computer.

:-)

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-30
If you configure something that needs an xorg.conf file it will be generated.

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-10-30
I have it but do not know how to do what you want. There are four other xorg.conf files associated with it.

---

### Post by scottuss on 2009-10-30
> **rosswmcgee said:**
> I cannot save the file the way you describe! 
In red it says could not save the file /etc/X11/e.g xorg.conf

However the system does seem to boot up after a sequence of "out of range"

so all I am left with now is the bug problem. " titled crash report "Your system has encountered a serious kernel problem.

Did you edit the file with root privileges? You would need to use sudo to start your text editor as this file cannot be edited unless root.

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-10-30
No I did not but then I do not know how to use sudo in text editor. I now how in terminal.

---

### Post by ftmichael on 2009-10-30
Run the text editor from the terminal.

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-10-30
Hey thanks if I need it I can do it. It seems the problem has gone away after doing 
 a sudo apt-get clean---------------will see if it remains that way.

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-10-31
OK This morning I have the bug again so the sudo apt-get clean did not clear it.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-31
When you use gedit as root you should not use sudo.  Use;
```

gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```
Rename that bugger.

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-10-31
I did edit it as you suggested. My boot up problem is over but it was over before I did this edit. However I still have the bug, but just got some new updates. I will shut down and re boot and see of the bug is still present, it seems to come and go and it is reported by lots of users. Thanks

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-10-31
The bug is back, so nothing done so far has fixed it.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-31
Have you filed a bug report?  Or searched launchpad for one?

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-10-31
Yes as did many others with the same bug, so I will wait a while and either someone will have a solution or I will do a clean install. Other than the bug annoyance all works well.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-31
It seems weird to me.  I actually had that problem, but it was  couple kernels back an haven't had it since.  What ever caused mine was fixed.

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-10-31
Here is the bug report#422536


Bug Description

?

ProblemType: KernelOops
Annotation: Your system might become unstable now and might need to be restarted.
Architecture: amd64
AudioDevicesInUse:
 USER PID ACCESS COMMAND
 /dev/snd/controlC0: yoman82 3464 F.... pulseaudio
 /dev/snd/pcmC0D0p: yoman82 3464 F...m pulseaudio
CRDA: Error: [Errno 2] No such file or directory
Card0.Amixer.info:
 Card hw:0 'SB'/'HDA ATI SB at 0xf9ff0000 irq 16'
   Mixer name : 'Realtek ALC888'
   Components : 'HDA:10ec0888,18491e01,00100001'
   Controls : 37
   Simple ctrls : 21
Date: Tue Sep 1 07:48:00 2009
DistroRelease: Ubuntu 9.10
Failure: oops
HibernationDevice: RESUME=UUID=69c64130-cc6f-4a5b-952b-3ba4c893ba48
MachineType: To Be Filled By O.E.M. To Be Filled By O.E.M.
NonfreeKernelModules: nvidia
Package: linux-image-2.6.31-8-generic 2.6.31-8.28
PccardctlIdent:

PccardctlStatus:

ProcCmdLine: root=UUID=19f3bdd6-1b33-48e0-8081-d00e178d9f7d ro splash vga=792
ProcVersionSignature: Ubuntu 2.6.31-8.28-generic
RelatedPackageVersions:
 linux-backports-modules-2.6.31-8-generic N/A
 linux-firmware 1.16
RfKill:
 0: phy0: Wireless LAN
  Soft blocked: no
  Hard blocked: no
SourcePackage: linux
Tags: kernel-oops
Title: 6.073813] EDAC amd64: WARNING: ECC is NOT currently enabled by the BIOS. Module will NOT be loaded.
Uname: Linux 2.6.31-8-generic x86_64
WifiSyslog:

WpaSupplicantLog:

dmi.bios.date: 04/24/2009
dmi.bios.vendor: American Megatrends Inc.
dmi.bios.version: P1.00
dmi.board.name: M3A780GXH/128M
dmi.board.vendor: ASRock
dmi.chassis.asset.tag: To Be Filled By O.E.M.
dmi.chassis.type: 3
dmi.chassis.vendor: To Be Filled By O.E.M.
dmi.chassis.version: To Be Filled By O.E.M.
dmi.modalias: dmi:bvnAmericanMegatrendsInc.:bvrP1.00:bd04/24/2009:svnToBeFilledByO.E.M.:pnToBeFilledByO.E.M.:pvrToBeFilledByO.E.M.:rvnASRock:rnM3A780GXH/128M:rvr:cvnToBeFilledByO.E.M.:ct3:cvrToBeFilledByO.E.M.:
dmi.product.name: To Be Filled By O.E.M.
dmi.product.version: To Be Filled By O.E.M.
dmi.sys.vendor: To Be Filled By O.E.M.



EDAC amd64: WARNING: ECC is NOT currently enabled by the BIOS. Module will NOT be loaded

Any one know a fix? Let me know I will give it a try, but I am sure the techies are 

working it.

---

