---
title: "A few teething problems"
date: 2008-08-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by hyby on 2008-08-05
Howdy all,

I hope to port to Ubuntu this time permanently this time. I have finally managed to get some of my software working through wine (Yipee!). 

Anyhow, there are still things that are peeving me off. I was wondering if you guys can help me out. 

1. Extended desktop. I have an Intel 915GM onboard video card. I wish to extend my desktop to a Viewsonic VA2226w screen. I have searched the forums, but i can not seem to find a definitive approach. 
2. Echoing/strong surround sound. I am have trouble listening to music as it tends to echo heavily. I have searched and posted this problem before, and hoped that Hardy Heron wouldn't have this problem anymore, but i was wrong. My laptop utilizes a program called SRS surround in windows to eliminate the surround sound. Is there a tool available or setting/script that can eliminate my soundcards surround sound ability. I have tried playing with the surround tab in the volume control and ALSA control. 

Thanks guys for reading my problems.

Hybs

---

### Post by bobnutfield on 2008-08-05
I apologize if you have already tried this basic solution, but have you tried to open alsamixer and turn off surround there?

---

### Post by hyby on 2008-08-05
yes i have and, i still get echoing/karoake like effect

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-08-05
the echo effect is probably occuring because a microphone is picking up the speakers.

could you post the contents of your xorg.conf file
the following is the command to open the file
```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by hyby on 2008-08-05
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

I have turned off the microphone and the surround, but hasn't solved my problem.

I think its because of the SRS effect that my soundcard has. Now to determine whether there is a linux derivative of this application

---

### Post by hyby on 2008-08-06
Bump...

---

