---
title: "Automatic Raw Processing"
date: 2009-06-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by theSeeker88 on 2009-06-04
As an amateur photographer, I'm intrigued by the idea of shooting in Raw. However, I often shoot between one and two hundred pictures every day, and I don't like the idea of doing all that manipulation by hand. 

What I'd like is a tool which could perform the exact same conversion (raw -> JPEG) which is normally performed on my camera, but on my computer. I'd like it to do this in batch, with essentially no input from me. I understand this defeats the purpose of shooting in raw, but the idea is I'd keep the raw files so that I could edit certain ones later - i.e. have my cake and eat it too. 

I've tried RawStudio and Raw Therapee - both seem oriented towards manipulation by hand, and even the batch tools require you to specify certain settings. Does anyone know of a tool which would simply use the camera's settings and perform the conversion in the same exact manner?

Thanks!

---

### Post by unutbu on 2009-06-04
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6407138&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6407138&postcount=6)

---

### Post by theSeeker88 on 2009-06-04
Thanks for the reply. I tried the script, and it's pretty nice, but it's not quite the same as what the camera would have done, at least not based on a comparison between the jpegs generated by the script and the thumbnail embedded in my raw. I even tried replacing the "dcraw -w -c" line with "dcraw +M -c", which yielded better-looking results, but still not the same as what the camera would have done.

---

### Post by iopo on 2009-06-04
you can also try Digikam with the kipi plugins. You can select the pictures you want to convert into jpeg, and then use the bathc raw converter, You can also specify into Digikam settings to use the camera default settings when converting from RAW.

---

### Post by theSeeker88 on 2009-06-04
Thanks. Digikam seems to work well, especially using the "Default D65" settings for white balance. However, none of the options give me something that resembles the camera's thumbnails. Perhaps my camera (a Canon G3, relatively old I guess) just doesn't save the necessary data along with the raw files?

---

