---
title: "Msg &quot;System program problem detected&quot; appears after every power up ubuntu"
date: 2016-07-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by stefan52 on 2016-07-04
I don't know why, i'm not expert in ubuntu maybe not even begginer, i use too much GUI. So i'm aware, if someone put some malware in my ubuntu, and it try to get my password by clicking me on this report problem button. This is so suspicious, due it doesn't show me what problem is, some log etc... also it shows suddenly, i don't remember i was scavenging OS by some installs etc...  When i click report problem it ask me for password, and below that there is vendor: (something like) apport.ubuntu ? What to do? I look at google for apport and it looks like legit thing...  Sorry for bad english
Picture is in attachment
I'm using UBUNTU 16.04 LTS

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-07-04
Welcome to the forums, stefan52.

A rather common occurrence, I'm afraid. It is safe to "report problem". This message is from *apport*, your system error reporter, and you can view the error in two ways:

[LIST=1]
[*]After you allow reporting of the error, another dialogue box should pop up with details about the system error.
[*]You can view your apport.log files to read what the error is. These are located in /var/log and can be read with:```
less /var/log/apport.log
```
[*]Older log files have been compressed and need to be read with:```
zless /var/log/apport.log.2.gz
```
[*]
[/LIST]...where the number can be 2 or higher.

Please also allow sending of the error to the developers on the second dialogue box. This is partially how bugs are found and squashed. After such error boxes pop up, it is a good idea to look at the apport logs and see what app or service is failing. Most of the time, a failed app or service is just relaunched the next time it is needed. The causes for some of these crashes are often obscure and difficult to trace, but most of them seem to do no harm and your system will usually recover nicely. I get them frequently enough that they are part of the computing background to me now, but I always check my logs afterwards to see if I can detect a pattern.

---

### Post by stefan52 on 2016-07-08
Sorry for late response.
Thanks for reviewing my question.
Do u want to take a look to my logs?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-07-08
You are welcome to post the content of your logs to this thread if you wish. However, the important thing is for you to look through them to familiarize yourself with some of the issues you may be having&#8213;since it is your system that will continue to generate such behaviour.

To post your logs, do:```
cat /var/log/apport.log.1 > ~/Desktop/crashlog.txt && cat /var/log/apport.log >> ~/Desktop/crashlog.txt
```...this should generate a file on your desktop called crashlog.txt. Post that file to this thread either as a file attachment or as plain text between [noparse]```
 and 
```[/noparse] tags for clarity. Or highlight the output and use the [img]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/editor/code.gif[/img] button in the *Adv Reply* toolbar.

If your native language is not English, then replace the word "Desktop" in above code with whatever your system calls Desktop. Linux is case-sensitive and very finicky about exact usage, so please copy and paste my command rather than try retyping it.

Also post the output of:```
ls -laF /var/crash
```...immediately after your next crash report. This is where the system stores the temporary file that is actually generated by apport and contains the actual content sent in as a bug report. You can read the contents of any files there with:```
less /var/crash/name_of_file
```...replacing the actual file name for "name_of_file", and post them to this thread with the *cat* command as per previous example.

---

