---
title: "11.04 problems"
date: 2011-05-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bigal1932flying on 2011-05-30
I have been having heaps of trouble since upgrading to 11.04.
Is this just me, my system, or are other people also having problems?

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-05-31
It might be just you, but I don't think so. Please list some of your problems and hopefully someone can help you work through them.

---

### Post by prshah on 2011-05-31
> **bigal1932flying said:**
> I have been having heaps of trouble since upgrading to 11.04.
Is this just me, my system, or are other people also having problems?

Most problems are related to Unity, Ubuntu's new interface. Unity uses OpenGL, which requires a somewhat capable graphics chipset, and some basic setup.

If you do not have a capable graphics processor (eg, onboard graphics) or are not able to set it up for some reason, you may find better performance with Unity2D (it is in the repos).

Please install Unity2D, logout, and in the login screen, choose Unity2D as your interface before logging back in. 

Aside from this, there should be no other problems, since there is nothing "new" with the other underlying technologies.

If you still have problems, please post back with details regarding your problems.

---

### Post by bigal1932flying on 2011-05-31
Many thanks, I have installed Unity2D and notice that I have a different desktop.
Will try this setup and see how things go.
Thanks again for your help.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-05-31
```
/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p
```
Run this in terminal above and will tell you if you are 3D capible.

---

### Post by bigal1932flying on 2011-06-09
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: unable to create the OpenGL context
Out put from command. Thanks.

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-06-09
What is your video card?

---

### Post by bigal1932flying on 2011-06-10
My video card is a:
ASUS V7100 Series
NVIDIA GeForce 2 MX400

---

