---
title: "Backslash key makes a &lt; symbol"
date: 2010-10-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Vinneh88 on 2010-10-07
Hello, for some reason or another, my backslash key is making the "<" symbol instead of the backslash (the key right above the enter key)  All other keys are working fine except that one.  When I press shift and the backslash key I get a > symbol.

Right now my keyboard lay out is set up as USA: Generic 105-key (Intl)PC and I'm running on Ubuntu 10.10

Any pointers would be greatly appreciated :D

---

### Post by Vinneh88 on 2010-10-09
anyone ? :(

---

### Post by MisterGaribaldi on 2010-10-09
System > Preferences > Keyboard > Layouts

Click on the keyboard layout listed, and then click on Print. Then choose Print to file (which will make a PDF out of it).

Open this up in Gimp and rotate it so you can look at it normally. At that point, look to see if the layout is what you think it is. There's a chance it's not quite appropriate for your keyboard. At that point, click on the button next to Keyboard model and then go through to pick a layout which more properly corresponds to your keyboard.

---

### Post by Vinneh88 on 2010-10-09
Thanks for the reply!  Unfortunately the keyboard layout is how it is supposed to be, so I think it might just be my keyboard that isn't working correctly.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-10-10
In doing the above test, did you notice the "\" being generated by any other key combinations?

Dave ;)

---

### Post by ivarn on 2010-12-14
Not to bump up another persons thread but I don't have backslash on my keyboard either.
The print file showed me millions of key combinations but not backslash.
I am able to copy/paste a backslash though. \\\\\.
So how do I add \ to a key ?
EDIT: I am only able to paste it in to this post, and not anywhere else.
When I try to paste it in somewhere else I get this symbol "¥".

---

### Post by eatabean on 2010-12-14
I had a similar problem (with the letter "r") and solved it ( I think!) by threatening with a total reboot. I inserted my startup CD and went through the motions of installing, up to the point where one more click would have started the reformat... and then I cancelled the procedure. Problem solved! It did, however come back after a short hiatus... Restarted the computer and so far so good. Try it and see if it works for you. Report the results here, please!

---

### Post by dparisut on 2010-12-25
I was having the same issue, striking my backslash/PIPE key would produce either < or >. Here is the solution I found to the issue.


I ran the command 'xmodmap -pke' to view my current keymap, it showed 'keycode 94 = less greater less greater bar brokenbar'.

I then ran the command 'xev' and hit the backslash key to see what keycode was linked to my backslash key.

What I saw was this:

KeyPress event, serial 33, synthetic NO, window 0x3e00001,
root 0x102, subw 0x0, time 740562, (614,389), root: (621,488),
state 0x10, keycode 94 (keysym 0x5c, <), same_screen YES,
XLookupString gives 1 bytes: (5c) "<"
XmbLookupString gives 1 bytes: (5c) "<"
XFilterEvent returns: False

Next I ran: xmodmap -e 'keycode 94 = backslash bar' , switching the keycode 94 from less greater to backslash bar.

Everything seems to be running great now.

---

### Post by carbonbaseunit on 2011-03-01
Thanks for this.  You solved my problem.  :)

---

