---
title: "? in 11.10"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-14
Instead of my normal routine of just completely installing a new release, I did the upgrade thing from the update manager this time.  I've run into a couple of things that I'm curious about:

- why did the upgrade say it couldn't do the flash player installation?
- after the flash player installation failed, the upgrade eventually gave me a Window saying "Completed", but it never did the clean-up, etc., at least according the upgrade screen.  How do I know if I've got any old garbage that shouldn't be there?
- I tried Suduko in the games -> the default screen is terrible - I can't see any boxes except the ones preloaded by the system. Why?
- When I changed Suduko to full screen I was never able to get the top bar back so I could quit, nor did the sidebar come back in.  I had to go to a terminal window and manually shutdown/restart the entire system. Why?

Dave ;)

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-10-15
Hi, I had a clean install that I was using from the beginning in the alpha stage that is working good now.

I wanted to see if an upgrade would be a failure like I thought it might and there was some issues a long the same lines as your so I am glad I have the clean install to fall back on and I am just going to reformat the drive with the upgrade on it.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-15
Thanks - that what I suspected.  Well, going to be a reformat and install for me know.  Guess I'd better download the image! ;)

Thanks!  Hope everything is going great!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-10-15
Hi, your welcome! I tried the fixes for my issues that worked in 11.04 but they did not work in 11.10.

Be well my friend.

---

