---
title: "10.10 release candidate with Broadcom BCM4312."
date: 2010-10-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jetso on 2010-10-01
I am absolutly a beginner, so bear with me. About 2 weeks ago, I installed Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS on my Dell Inspiron 1525 laptop, with Windows Vista dual-booting. I found out that 10.04.1 does not work right out of the box with my network connector, and tried multiple ways to fix it with no success. After that I tried 10.10 beta, which * SAID * it would work, but did not. I hooked it up to ethernet when I could, because everyone on the forums said that would make it work if I went to hardware drivers and activated all of them. When I tried this every time it said that it failed. I am wondering if 10.10 Release Candidate will work if I install it, or if I need to wait untill the stable release.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-10-01
Give it a shot. I've got a Dell Studio with BCM4312 and all versions have worked. Currently I've activated from Hardware Drivers the Broadcom STA wireless driver.

Do you have any version of Ubuntu installed now? Post back if you need help.

---

### Post by Troublegum on 2010-10-01
I doubt that the final release of 10.10 will change the situation. Broadcom and linux is just - well, let's just say - bad. 

You can check if you're device is supported by the b43-driver by typing in a terminal:
```
lspci -vnn | grep 14e4
```The output could look like this:
```
0001:01:01.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller [14e4:4318] (rev 02)
```The content in the last [] brackets is most relevant. In this table, look for your device and see if its supported:
[http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#Known_PCI_devices](http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#Known_PCI_devices)


Also note that b43/b43legacy-driver does not support usb-devices. those need to be installed with ndriswrapper.

---

### Post by Jetso on 2010-10-01
Okay I'll try it. I'm hoping that it works right after the install, because I can't get ethernet alot.

---

### Post by canthus13 on 2010-10-01
your BCM4312 should work fine. You DO have to connect wired to run updates the first time, and then enable the STA drivers, but mine works beautifully. broadcom USED to be a sad state, but they've gone ahead and started providing native linux drivers. I've had no issues at all with mine.

--Me

---

### Post by Troublegum on 2010-10-01
> **canthus13 said:**
> broadcom USED to be a sad state, but they've gone ahead and started providing native linux drivers.

But only for newer chips. Don't expect free driver from broadcom for old bcm4312 chips.

---

### Post by canthus13 on 2010-10-01
> **Troublegum said:**
> But only for newer chips. Don't expect free driver from broadcom for old bcm4312 chips.

Umm... I'm running STA drivers on my 'old' bcm 4312 chip.   It supports the 4311, 4312, 4313, 4321, and 4322 chips.  see their [download page]("http://www.broadcom.com/support/802.11/linux_sta.php").

--Me

---

### Post by CoreyB. on 2010-10-01
I have a Dell Inspiron 1525 and everything has worked fine out of the box since I started using Ubuntu with 8.10.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-10-01
It seems there are different versions of the BCM4312 chipset. I know for sure that rev. 01 uses the restricted STA (wl) driver. I've been using it since before Maverick alpha 1. It has never let me down, and it performs better than my other wireless system with a D-Link WUA-1340, using the rt73 driver.

It is also pretty simple to install, just plug in a network cable and select the driver from System-> Administration->Additional Drivers, once the driver is installed, unplug the cable and reboot.

---

### Post by Troublegum on 2010-10-01
> **canthus13 said:**
> Umm... I'm running STA drivers on my 'old' bcm 4312 chip.   It supports the 4311, 4312, 4313, 4321, and 4322 chips.  see their [download page]("http://www.broadcom.com/support/802.11/linux_sta.php").


Okay, this has been a misunderstanding. They are providing native linux drivers like the STA driver. 

I thought you were referring to the news that Broadcom will publish free,open source drivers for their new chips. Thats why I objected because the STA driver is a closed-source proprietary driver and is not open source.

---

### Post by canthus13 on 2010-10-02
> **Troublegum said:**
> Okay, this has been a misunderstanding. They are providing native linux drivers like the STA driver. 

I thought you were referring to the news that Broadcom will publish free,open source drivers for their new chips. Thats why I objected because the STA driver is a closed-source proprietary driver and is not open source.

Ah. Ok.  I don't look a gift horse in the in the mouth.  Why complain and discourage hardware manufacturers from providing drivers? I'm quite happy that companies like Nvidia and Broadcom are stepping up and providing native drivers for Linux, and I will gladly continue to encourage them buy buying their products, rather than complaining that they're not supporting it 'correctly'.  Whining about the lack of source code only risks them deciding that we're a bunch of ingrates that aren't worth their time.

--Me

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-10-02
From linuxwireless.org:

> The Broadcom wireless chip needs software, called "firmware", that runs on the wireless chip itself during operation. This firmware is copyrighted by Broadcom and must be extracted from Broadcom's proprietary drivers. To get such firmware on your system, you must download the driver from a legal distribution point, as noted below. Then you must extract the firmware from that Broadcom driver by using b43-fwcutter (or bcm43xx-fwcutter) and install it in the special directory for firmware - usually /lib/firmware. Please note that the firmware from the binary drivers is copyrighted by Broadcom Corporation and must not be redistributed.

Some distributions have special methods for installing the firmware. In general these consist of a special command entered at a terminal. Because the proprietary driver containing the firmware cannot be included in the distribution, you will need a working connection to the Internet.

Ubuntu's "special methods for installing the firmware" are [detailed at the Ubuntu help pages]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx"). Look for this documentation to be updated for 10.10 once there is a final release. Please note a bug in 10.04 prevented jockey-gtk from properly working with some Broadcom chipsets; the terminal commands in the help.ubuntu.com link above are more reliable. Not sure if this bug is fixed in 10.10.

I too have read the "Broadcom to play nice with Linux" headlines but do not expect this to happen in time for the 10.10 release. ;)

Some Linux distros include the Broadcom firmware working out-of-the-box; these are typically either small, independent distros that fly "under the radar" or distros based out of countries where Broadcom's copyright is not legally enforceable. Ubuntu falls into neither of these categories.

---

### Post by Troublegum on 2010-10-02
Hey,

Dont get me wrong. I am not an open source fanatic who refuses to use proprietary software. I am grateful for the good nvidia drivers too. 

The reason I prefer open drivers is that proprietary drivers cant be added to the official linux kernel. Open drivers will work out of the box and thats great, especially for something important as network drivers (you cant download drivers without internet connection and not everyone has a 2nd machine available :) ).

When I last used a broadcom card with the b43 (or was it b43legacy?) driver two years ago, it was very complicated to install and once I got it working, it wasnt very stable. I understand the situation has improved with the sta drivers.

All I am saying is: Given the choice, Id always chose a wireless chip that will out of the box. Its just great to boot a livecd and have internet access right away. :)

Video cards, printers, etc. are a different story. Once you got internet, you can install these drivers easily.

---

### Post by canthus13 on 2010-10-02
All good! Glad to hear you're not offended by closed-source drivers.  Fortunately, the lack of wireless is rarely an issue. Most people can plug into ethernet long enough to run updates. (Except for the poor folks stuck with a macbook air or some netbook that doesn't include ethernet.)  Of course I'd prefer to have open drivers, but you'll never catch me badmouthing a company for not doing enough for Linux.  At this point, any ally is good.  (Even Novell. :) )  At any rate, I believe we've hijacked this thread for long enough.  We can always argue this in #ubuntu-offtopic.

--Me

---

### Post by Jetso on 2010-10-02
Haha, thank you all of you for your enthusiasm on helping me. I will try some things that you guys suggested, and will boot from a LiveCD when 10.10 is officially released. I know that broadcom is releasing drivers for *some* BCM43xx drivers, but I don't know if they have released BCM43*12* for Linux yet. I defintley agree with Troublegum that it is very hard to install the drivers and sometimes it doesn't even work, like in my case. I tried the ethernet method, by going to System> Administration > Additional Driver, but when I tried to Download, install and activate them, a error message popped up. I was almost sure that that would work, so that was a huge let down. :( I think I'm just going to keep trying Ubuntu out to see if it works. On the bright side, I can just burn LiveCD and try it out to see if it works instead of installing it everytime.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-10-02
What does the error message say? What does this return from your Live-CD?

```
lspci | grep -i net
```

---

### Post by Jetso on 2010-10-02
From the LiveCD: 
Lspci | grep -i net ||| 09:00.0 Ethernet controller: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 88E8040 PCI-E Fast Ethernet Controller (rev 12) 
0b:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g LP-PHY (rev 01) 

Error Code: SystemError: installArchives() failed

---

### Post by canthus13 on 2010-10-02
> **Jetso said:**
> From the LiveCD: 
Lspci | grep -i net ||| 09:00.0 Ethernet controller: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 88E8040 PCI-E Fast Ethernet Controller (rev 12) 
0b:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g LP-PHY (rev 01) 

Error Code: SystemError: installArchives() failed

Revision 01.  You should have no issue beyond having to plug in the first time to update drivers.  If it doesn't find it, [this]("http://www.ubuntumini.com/2009/11/broadcom-wireless-driver-fix-in-karmic.html") page should help.

--Me

---

### Post by Jetso on 2010-10-02
> **canthus13 said:**
> Revision 01.  You should have no issue beyond having to plug in the first time to update drivers. 

I tried this, and that was when error message that I previously posted shows up. I tried installing and activating the drivers several times to no avail.

---

### Post by Don_Dragon on 2010-10-04
I've been having some similar issues with my BCM4311 revision 2 card on my older HP laptop.  Since updating to the release candidate, it's as dead as disco.  I tried a clean install of 10.04, and it was working again, but when I upgraded to 10.10 a second time, same result, dead again.  It seems every time a new version of Ubuntu comes out, broadcom chips start acting up.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-10-04
i just go straight for the firmware installer.

---

### Post by Jetso on 2010-10-05
Do I need to run that when connected to the internet (via Etherent)? I would think so, but you never know. I'm still working on it, and I will get a connection tomorrow, so I will try again then.

---

### Post by Don_Dragon on 2010-10-05
I tried and no dice.  The blasted think just won't come on since the update.

---

### Post by Jetso on 2010-10-08
This sucks... I'm just going to keep trying. I will install Ubuntu *again* when 10.10 is official, then I'm not going to mess with a thing and use ethernet to get the firmware.:confused:

---

### Post by Don_Dragon on 2010-10-08
Unfortunately, life with Braodcom chips has always sucked.  I've had to struggle with this all the way back to 7.10 when I started using Ubuntu with my laptop  Then again, I have yet to go through a version upgrade that doesn't break something.  Fixing these is a pain, but success always feels satisfying.  With some luck, this will solve itself sometime after final release.

---

### Post by Jetso on 2010-10-08
Yeah, I'm going to update it to that, then use ethernet to install the drivers. Alot of people tell me this will work, but I don't know why it didn't the first time.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-10-08
(a) you probably won't get this working with a LiveCD.  You will most likely need to install first.  This could result in the archive failures from what I've seen.  Remember that once hard-wired you should do an sudo apt-get update first, wait for it finish, then check for drivers.  Remember to disconnect the hard-wire cable before trying to use wireless after that.

(b) if you want to use the firmware method, the b43 firmware cutter is included on the LiveCd (at least up to 10.04 - hopefully they haven't changed that).  Look in /pool/main/b folder.

(c) ndiswrapper, and the Windows driver, is a very simple way to get this going.  You;ll see some "negative press" in the forum from some users, but it is really easy to use (using the ndisgtk front end) and usually makes these cards work.  I would recommend it if you want to just get this going.  Gather up the .inf and .sys files for Windows for your adapter (something like bcmwl5a.sys and .inf), then post back and I can give you simple instructions for getting this working.


Dave ;)

---

### Post by Jetso on 2010-10-09
I * think* I found the right drivers, there is 2 different .sys files in C:\Drivers\network\R185610 they are: bcmwl6.sys and bcmwl664.sys and also bcmwl6.inf and yk60x86.inf.

Thanks for the help!

---

