---
title: "8.10 no sound"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by coolkid5 on 2008-11-02
Hi, I just upgraded from Hardy to Intrepid and my sound no longer works.  I've tried to search for solutions but nothing I found solved the problem.  Sometimes there is a sort of crackling sound but that's it.

Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by kyalee on 2008-11-02
I had problems with my sound off and on after upgrading from Gusty to Hardy and it seemed to get worse after I updated to Intrepid. So I backed up my data and did a clean install of Intrepid, not an update. Seems to have solved the problem.

Probably not the solution you're looking for, but it might be an option if nothing else works.

---

### Post by coolkid5 on 2008-11-03
Yeah, I'd really prefer not downloading the whole thing and backing stuff up.

---

### Post by joris1977 on 2008-11-03
Reinstalling really shouldn't be necessary. That said, it can be difficult to get sound working in ubuntu hardy and intrepid.  

This guide gives a pretty good introduction to get audio working in intrepid with the new default pulse audio system: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=866965](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=866965)

But start with checking if your sound is not muted:

Click on the audio-icon on the gnome panel, with your right mouseclick.
Make sure mute is not checked,

Click on Open Volume Control- click on preferences and mark all the tracks. Make sure none of the tracks are muted.

Also make sure that  Device: HDA Intel (Alsa mixer) is selected. 

Hope this helps

---

### Post by Somnus07 on 2008-11-03
> **joris1977 said:**
> 
Click on Open Volume Control- click on preferences and mark all the tracks. Make sure none of the tracks are muted.


whoops i just checked the forums cause i had the same problem (crackling but no real sound), but just realised i had PCM on really low.
Thanks for the pointer joris1977

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-11-03
Always start here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting)

---

### Post by zapaces on 2008-11-04
I upgraded from hardy to intrepid and I love it s far. But for the sound issue. I do have some sounds, I can play music and watch videos, but when it comes to games (atanks, or snes emulator) the sound is absolutely gone. It wasn't like that in Hardy.
Also, I've been having problems setting up Skype's audio.
I have an inspiron 1420. running ubuntu 32-bit.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-11-04
> **zapaces said:**
> I upgraded from hardy to intrepid and I love it s far. But for the sound issue. I do have some sounds, I can play music and watch videos, but when it comes to games (atanks, or snes emulator) the sound is absolutely gone. It wasn't like that in Hardy.
Also, I've been having problems setting up Skype's audio.
I have an inspiron 1420. running ubuntu 32-bit.

In that case I'd suggest using the guide listed in post #4.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=866965](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=866965)

---

### Post by coolkid5 on 2008-11-04
Wow, thanks you guys.  I had the same problem as Somnus07, the PCM was turned all the way down.  Thanks for your help joris1977, I had only checked the master volume before, not all the other tracks.  Its strange that the sound would default to muted.

---

### Post by samlalani on 2008-11-04
I had a similar problem with sound when I upgraded my 8.04 to 8.10.  I got no sound when I started Firefox to watch YouTube videos which use Adobe Flash.  I fixed the problem by going to the Synaptic Package Manager and installing the "flashplugin-nonfree-extrasound" package.  Now I can hear the YouTube video sounds.  Hope this helps some of you.

---

### Post by csents on 2008-11-18
I have sound for the most part in Intrepid, but none coming from the headphone jack.  It starts for a split second when I plug it it, but then cuts out.  Also, the other day it randomly decided to work, possibly because I booted up with headphones still in from working on my Windows partition.  However, it seems to be gone now.  Is there anything I could do to get them working 100% of the time?

Thanks

---

