---
title: "12.10 nm-dispatcher and modem manager singnal 15 can not boot"
date: 2012-12-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gatesdrovme2it on 2012-12-19
I'm new to Ubuntu and after I accepted some upgrades now I can not boot at all.  I am using 12.10, and I get the code that nm-dispatcher and modem manager are signal 15.  Am I totally screwed, or is there some way to boot into a kind of safe mode?  I would be eternally grateful as all of my work stuff is on that machine!!!!:o

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-12-19
With 12.10 we find Recovery mode under the Advance Options for Ubuntu submenu.

If you choose Resume you may find that Ubuntu will boot. Did this error stop Ubuntu loading completely? You should also be able to access your data through a Live session with the DVD.

Regards.

---

### Post by gatesdrovme2it on 2012-12-20
thank you for the reply.  unfortunately there is no kind of menu at all- so yes, it killed it dead.  i am not sure what a live session is.  i have tried using the CD and have gone through a kind of recovery routine a couple times to no avail.  

im sure i am not giving you the info that you need to help me.  if you have any questions just ask and dumb it down a lot if possible.  im completely Ubuntu-disabled.  LOL.

thank you again very much.

---

### Post by gatesdrovme2it on 2012-12-21
anyone?

---

### Post by gatesdrovme2it on 2012-12-22
I'm desperate; I'll take any help I can get!!  Please- someone?

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2012-12-22
Unfortunately I'm not familiar with the boot menu in 12.10 - in previous releases it was accessed by holding the 'Shift' key during boot (I usually just press and hold it as soon as the BIOS screen disappears). Have you tried that?

Above all, don't panic - neither of the errors you posted sound serious, it should be quite possible to get the system up and running without network manager or modem services. Even if that fails, you should be able to mount your original disk partition via a live CD / USB and copy your data off, especially if you didn't use encryption.

---

### Post by gatesdrovme2it on 2012-12-22
> **steeldriver said:**
> Unfortunately I'm not familiar with the boot menu in 12.10 - in previous releases it was accessed by holding the 'Shift' key during boot (I usually just press and hold it as soon as the BIOS screen disappears). Have you tried that?

Above all, don't panic - neither of the errors you posted sound serious, it should be quite possible to get the system up and running without network manager or modem services. Even if that fails, you should be able to mount your original disk partition via a live CD / USB and copy your data off, especially if you didn't use encryption.

Thank you Steeldriver!!!!!  This is great information!!!!!  I used the shift key and chose "recovery" and it gave me a ton of info on the screen.  Now I have the prompt "root@dhcppc1:~#".  Is there a command that will roll back my last update?  Or at least roll back the network manager and nm dispatcher?

Thank you sooooooooo much Steeldriver!:P

---

### Post by gatesdrovme2it on 2012-12-22
I found an article in Linux Journal called "Transactions and Rollback with RPM"- can I roll back to 7 days ago?  That is my dream!!!!!!!

---

### Post by gatesdrovme2it on 2012-12-22
I just found this:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/34888/is-there-any-way-to-roll-back-the-most-recent-upgrade](http://askubuntu.com/questions/34888/is-there-any-way-to-roll-back-the-most-recent-upgrade)

Is it true that we can't do this in Ubuntu?

---

### Post by gatesdrovme2it on 2012-12-24
any way to disable or roll-back  nm-dispatcher and modem manager from the prompt so i can boot this thing?  even if i lose my network i would be happy to get it to boot.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2012-12-24
Hi I think it would be better (and MUCH easier) to move forward rather than back - i.e. do an apt-get upgrade and see if that fixes the broken packages

What options do you get in the recovery menu when you boot into recovery mode? you can try to start networking there and then update/upgrade. If that fails (quite likely - especially if there are nm issues) then we can attempt to start a network connection manually using ifup.

---

### Post by gatesdrovme2it on 2012-12-24
> **steeldriver said:**
> Hi I think it would be better (and MUCH easier) to move forward rather than back - i.e. do an apt-get upgrade and see if that fixes the broken packages

What options do you get in the recovery menu when you boot into recovery mode? you can try to start networking there and then update/upgrade. If that fails (quite likely - especially if there are nm issues) then we can attempt to start a network connection manually using ifup.

OK, as I hit the shift key after getting the Asus splash screen this comes up:

Ubuntu, with Linux 3.2.0-34-generic
Ubuntu, with Linux 3.2.0-34-generic (recovery mode)
Previous Linux versions

from there i select the middle one- recovery mode.  The screen goes wild loading stuff, then I see this:

fsck from util-linux 2.19.1
/dev/sda1: clean, 153658/19406848 files, 72744291/77621248 blocks (check in 3 mounts)
modprobe: FATAL: could not load /lib/modules/3.2.0-34-generic/modules.dep: No such file or directory

waiting for network configuration...
waiting up to 60 more seconds for network configuration...

then the screen fills up again and i land with the prompt:

root@dhcppc1:~#

let me try an apt-get upgrade!

---

### Post by gatesdrovme2it on 2012-12-24
that modprobe FATAL error does not usually occur if that matters.  also i just noticed the line "booting system without full network..."

the upgrade came up all "0" so i guess i have no network connection.

---

### Post by gatesdrovme2it on 2012-12-26
any ideas?

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2012-12-26
OK well if you have a wired ethernet you can try to bring up an interface in the root console with something like

```
# ifconfig eth0 192.168.1.99 broadcast 192.168.1.255 netmask 255.255.255.0 up
# route add default gw 192.168.1.1 eth0

```where 192.168.1.99 is a known free IP address on your LAN and 192.168.1.1 is your router IP - adjust as necessary

Test it e.g. by pinging 8.8.8.8 (a google DNS server) and google.com - if the latter fails then we need to set up DNS as well which (temporarily) you can do with

```
# mount -o remount,rw /
# echo "nameserver 8.8.8.8" >> /etc/resolv.conf
```(remember to make the filesystem writeable first) If you can get to that point you can try updating 

```
# apt-get update
# apt-get upgrade

```Good luck - I will check back to see if you are making progress

---

### Post by gatesdrovme2it on 2012-12-27
Thanks Steeldriver.  I am wondering how I determine a "known free address" on my LAN, and how I determine what my router IP is?  Also how do I make the filesystem writeable?  If I know these things I think I can get through this process.  Thank you again!!!!  My router is a TP Link TD854W if this is relevant.

---

### Post by chris200x9 on 2013-01-13
> **gatesdrovme2it said:**
> Thanks Steeldriver.  I am wondering how I determine a "known free address" on my LAN, and how I determine what my router IP is?  Also how do I make the filesystem writeable?  If I know these things I think I can get through this process.  Thank you again!!!!  My router is a TP Link TD854W if this is relevant.

192.168.1.1 is your router's IP ) dhcp chooses the next lowest AFAIK so anything relatively high should be free (unless you have crazy amounts of things connected to the router). I'd say you could just try 192.168.1.15 and it'd work. As for remounting read/write run sudo mount -n -o remount,rw /

hope it helps.

let me know if running an update doesn't fix it, I have a few more tricks up my sleeve

---

