---
title: "10.04 screen resolution"
date: 2010-05-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sarum on 2010-05-10
A year or so ago I tried to up-grade my Hardy Heron, only to be stuck with an 800x600 screen. I wasted a lot of your time(and mine)following CL's, but eventually returned to the Heron where we got along just fine together.
10.04 is now the LTS, and I started to install it. Throughout the install 'resolution was 1024byxxx(I was impressed/hopeful) and all went well. But then - the updates. Restart needed, and obese resolution. 
I wonder why I get good 'resolution up to the update stage. Has anyone had this problem. My computer's a smallish one from an office; 2GB of RAM and 80GB of HD; no video card. Is Ubuntu no longer for us all...sarum

---

### Post by r-senior on 2010-05-10
Given the problems you've had in the past, perhaps consider picking up a cheap video card off eBay or similar? Usually plenty of perfectly usable cards around for virtually nothing.

---

### Post by sarum on 2010-05-11
Hi senior and thanks for your help. I'm not sure if a video card would fit in my small computer. So I shall use this as an excuse to buy a better computer from our local TradeMe e-auction. Thanks again.

---

### Post by flyfishingphil on 2010-05-11
> **sarum said:**
> Hi senior and thanks for your help. I'm not sure if a video card would fit in my small computer. So I shall use this as an excuse to buy a better computer from our local TradeMe e-auction. Thanks again.
Sounds good to me sarum! lol  lol

---

### Post by narendraD on 2010-05-11
> **sarum said:**
> A year or so ago I tried to up-grade my Hardy Heron, only to be stuck with an 800x600 screen. I wasted a lot of your time(and mine)following CL's, but eventually returned to the Heron where we got along just fine together.
10.04 is now the LTS, and I started to install it. Throughout the install 'resolution was 1024byxxx(I was impressed/hopeful) and all went well. But then - the updates. Restart needed, and obese resolution. 
I wonder why I get good 'resolution up to the update stage. Has anyone had this problem. My computer's a smallish one from an office; 2GB of RAM and 80GB of HD; no video card. Is Ubuntu no longer for us all...sarum


The default resolution may not be ideal. You can try changing it from System -->Pref--> Monitor. Thats what i dis and now i have 1024X768.

---

