---
title: "8.04 LTS or 8.10?"
date: 2009-01-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by UnknownFear on 2009-01-28
I installed 8.10 on my computer, but I was wondering if I should actually switch to 8.04 because of the long term support, or should I just stick with 8.10?

---

### Post by amauk on 2009-01-28
It's entirely up to you
Do you want the latest and greatest release every 6 months, or the slower paced LTS releases that span 2 years?

To me, LTS is perfect for business environments
you don't want (or need) the latest version of compiz or what have you
but a stable, supported system that won't change too often

---

### Post by Therion on 2009-01-28
8.04 is more stable and "just works" on MY system, but that's me and my system.  I'd run with 8.10 all things being equal; it just turns out they're not for me.

If 8.10 works for you, I'd tell you to stick with it.

---

### Post by OrangeCrate on 2009-01-28
8.10 is the logical advancement from 8.04, as 9.04 will be from 8.10. Each new version comes every six months. Fine for the average desktop user, but not practical for enterprise applications such as a large business or government institutions. So, the LTS version is not any better than any other version, but it simply has a longer shelf life.

See here for more information:

> Canonical releases new versions of Ubuntu every six months and supports Ubuntu for eighteen months by submitting security fixes, patches to critical bugs and including minor updates to programs. LTS (Long Term Support) releases, which occur every two years, are supported for three years on the desktop and five years for servers.

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu)

All that being said, if you find a version that works for you, and is still supported, there is absolutely no reason to change to a newer version, unless you simply want to.

---

### Post by taygan on 2009-01-28
8.04 is super-stable and functions well, probably my favorite flavor of Ubuntu.  8.10 offers better hardware support, but has been a little buggy for me.  I'm not super thrilled with the 8.10 upgrade, and am planning a clean install of 9.04 when it comes out.

That being said, if 8.10 is working well for you, stick with it!  You may miss some of the little features by going back to 8.04.

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-28
Ubuntu 8.10 has a tough time with configuring graphics cards. So if you can't get your optimal resolution, 8.04 might be your best choice.

8.10 wouldn't give 1024x768 on my intel 82815 graphics so i switched back to 8.04.

Again, it's up to you...

---

### Post by UnknownFear on 2009-01-28
Well, 8.10 is running smoothly for me, I am currently installing the latest updates, however, when I go to install my nvidia graphics card, it brings up the "downloading and installing" popup with the progress bar, but it stays at 0%. Now, am I still able to install compiz and use effects like the desktop cube and what not? If not, than I;m going to get rid of 8.10 and install 8.04 LTS.

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2009-01-28
Fortunely 8.10 runs well on my system but if it did not, i'd use 8.04.  Sure there are little advancements but at the end of the day i'd rather have a fully working 8.04 then a non fully working intrepid..

---

