---
title: "single command to #-out one specific line of one specific file?"
date: 2009-08-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-08-03
hello,

could someone do me a favour and patch together a single terminal command to modifiy /etc/xdg/autostart/nm-applet.desktop, so that the following line is either commented out or removed, or has "LXDE;" added to the end??

```
ep@chris-laptop:/etc/xdg/autostart$ cat nm-applet.desktop
[Desktop Entry]
Name=Network Manager
Comment=Control your network connections
Icon=nm-device-wireless
Exec=nm-applet --sm-disable
Terminal=false
Type=Application
_***OnlyShowIn=GNOME;XFCE;***_
X-GNOME-Bugzilla-Bugzilla=GNOME
X-GNOME-Bugzilla-Product=NetworkManager
X-GNOME-Bugzilla-Component=general
X-GNOME-Autostart-enabled=true
X-Ubuntu-Gettext-Domain=nm-applet
```



im not useless with the terminal, but not *that* good.


(nm-applet is the outstanding gnome/xfce networking applet... that also happens to work perfectly well with lxde.)

---

### Post by mgranet on 2009-08-03
You can just access the file and edit as you please with a text editor. It would look like this: ```
sudo gedit nm-applet.desktop
``` from the directory where it is located. (/etc/xdg/autostart)

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-08-03
> **mgranet said:**
> You can just access the file and edit as you please with a text editor. It would look like this: ```
sudo gedit nm-applet.desktop
``` from the directory where it is located.

i know, thank you :D

i am making a custom .iso using stock *_[U]completely unmodified_[/U]* Ubuntu packages and config files that i intend to distribute.

all of the ubuntu packages work perfectly well with each-other, except that nm-applet seems to think it only works with xfce and gnome.

i'd like to be able to provide a single command to folks for their use to enable nm-applet.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2009-08-03
How about using [Remastersys](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/remastersys) to make your custom .iso? No knowledge of bash programming necessary.

---

### Post by schauerlich on 2009-08-03
> **aysiu said:**
> How about using [Remastersys](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/remastersys) to make your custom .iso? No knowledge of bash programming necessary.

I think he has the packages he would like together, he just wants to make it easier to modify one of the configuration files.

@OP, you could use sed. Google is your friend.

It would look something like this:
```

sudo cp /etc/xdg/autostart/nm-applet.desktop /etc/xdg/autostart/nm-applet.desktop.backup && \
sed s/OnlyShowIn=GNOME;XFCE;// /etc/xdg/autostart/nm-applet.desktop.backup > /etc/xdg/autostart/nm-applet.desktop

```

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-08-03
> **aysiu said:**
> How about using [Remastersys](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/remastersys) to make your custom .iso? No knowledge of bash programming necessary.

that is what i am using - fresh installs of the iso work absolutely amazingly (my hat is off to remastersys), except for this one issue.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2009-08-03
That's odd that Remastersys wouldn't work with just that one file.

Well, this is the command, I believe: ```
sudo cp /etc/xdg/autostart/nm-applet.desktop /etc/xdg/autostart/nm-applet.desktop.backup && sudo sed -i 's/OnlyShowIn/#OnlyShowIn/g' /etc/xdg/autostart/nm-applet.desktop
```

---

### Post by schauerlich on 2009-08-03
I edited my last post several times, but it should work now.

EDIT: And I see aysiu beat me to it! Oh well.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-08-03
great, thanks!

> That's odd that Remastersys wouldn't work with just that one file.

it does, but then my moral obligations under my understanding of the GPL, etc, would not be fulfilled by me simply pointing to archive.ubuntu.com for folks that want source code, as my modification to that config file would not be reflected by what would be generated by someone that went to archive.ubuntu.com and compiled themselves... 

as i see it, my choices are:

1. let users run the command you provided (thanks again), and point users to archive.ubuntu.com for source code.

2. make the modification to stock ubuntu software myself, and then host the source code. since i dont know how to program, this would be silly.

3. make the modification to stock ubuntu software myself, _*not*_ host source code, and violate the GPL.

---

### Post by schauerlich on 2009-08-03
> **earthpigg said:**
> it does, but then my moral obligations under my understanding of the GPL, etc, would not be fulfilled by me simply pointing to archive.ubuntu.com for folks that want source code

Moral obligations. Following the terms of software licenses. How cute. :)

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-08-03
> **EDavidBurg said:**
> Moral obligations. Following the terms of software licenses. How cute. :)

thanks.

swine like me have to work extra hard at that.

---

