---
title: "./configure"
date: 2009-05-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by SnabelAir on 2009-05-16
Hi guys!
Im still trying to install my G15 board and to do so I'm told to download libusb and libg15. Installing libusb goes smooth but when running a ./configure libg15 in Terminal it says "libusb not installed, install it and try again".
According to a readme file I got here i should change the directory in which the ./configure command looks for the libusb-files. How do I do this and is there a command line to add to ./configure?

I want the ./configure command to look for libusb in "/usr/local/lib". 

Would be very happy if someone could help me with this one. :P

---

### Post by SnabelAir on 2009-05-16
checking for main in -lusb... no
configure: error: "libusb not found. please install it"
root@snabela:~/Skrivbord/libg15-1.2.7# 

Thats what it says in the Terminal if that helps anything...

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-05-16
You probably need libusb-dev.

---

### Post by Grishka on 2009-05-16
you don't have to compile. lib15 and libusb are in the repos, just look for them in synaptic.

---

### Post by SnabelAir on 2009-05-16
> **Grishka said:**
> you don't have to compile. lib15 and libusb are in the repos, just look for them in synaptic.


Is that greek? :) Ill try to reinstall them and hope that works! Thanks anyway guise.

---

### Post by egalvan on 2009-05-16
> you don't have to compile. lib15 and libusb are in the repos, just look for them in synaptic.

> **SnabelAir said:**
> Is that greek? :) Ill try to reinstall them and hope that works! Thanks anyway guise.

Yep, it's greek.. :)

here's a translation... ;)

> you don't have to compile.
 lib15 and libusb are in the repos[COLOR="Red"]itories[/COLOR],
 just look for them in [COLOR="Red"]S[/COLOR]ynaptic [COLOR="Red"]Package Manager[/COLOR].

):P ):P ):P

---

