---
title: "12.10  won't boot due to battery dying"
date: 2013-04-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Eersfanpilot on 2013-04-12
Working on the laptop yesterday (12.10 install with Windows 8 dual boot) and the battery died.  Now I can't get past what seems to be a booting screen.  It is stuck in what appears to be a starting of profiles and process list with a bunch of [ok]  out to the right side in Grub. 

Even trying to boot into recovery it seems to run script, then freeze.  No matter what command I put in,  nothing happens. 

 So far I have tried booting with a liveUSB and using Gparted to unmount and fix partitions and also using a root code found while searching for a fix. 

 Nothing has worked.

 Windows boots fine.  Help?

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2013-04-12
Are you telling us that you can't even boot to a live system?

---

### Post by Eersfanpilot on 2013-04-12
Sorry no. I typed that up late last night. 

I can Try Ubuntu  from Live USB  just fine. I can get to Grub (normal boot)  and have options to boot Ubuntu or Advanced boot Ubuntu to get to recovery.

 That's where the problem starts.  In normal boot, I get to the described screen above which seems like it is running tests from the improper shut down from the battery dying.  Then it just freezes and all I have is a blinking cursor.  No matter what I type, I get no response.

 If I go into recovery I can drop to root and get responses,  found a code using search to check for broken packages I think, ran it,  said results were "clean".

 In recovery if I try and check anything running that option from the menu,  freezes.  If I try option to repair broken packages, freezes.

 In Live USB I ran Gparted,  unmounted  the Ubuntu partition and ran a check and applied to all,  seemed fine. Rebooted,  nothing.  Same issues.


I have been having a lot of problems with Ubuntu not waking fully from suspend and the only way to get the screen back on is a hard shut down,  those plus the battery dying seems to have really broken something.

---

### Post by Eersfanpilot on 2013-04-12
Ok. So I decided to uninstall Ubuntu and start over with a clean start. I followed a guide on Youtube and removed the partitions and have everything back into Windows 8. 

When I reboot to the boot menu I can still see the previous installation from Ubuntu. I can select it but get an error message in Grub. Grub is still hanging around and now when I try to install a fresh 12.10 I no longer get the option of installing Ubuntu along side Windows 8. (I only get Erase Windows 8 and Replace with Ubuntu and the Something Else option). 

What do I need to do? I can boot and use Ubuntu with my LiveUSB just fine. 

Is 12.04 more stable than 12.10? 

Having issues like Ubuntu not waking from suspend or becoming unusable after your battery dies are some unacceptable issues in my mind. After searching for results to these problems it seems they have been plaguing Ubuntu users for a few YEARS now without any support to actually FIX the problem. Hopefully they will be addressed and solved in future releases. I would really like to have a stable working dual boot to use but not being able to close the lid of the laptop without shutting down and rebooting all the time is a pain in the ass. 

Is there a better build to try? Suggestions?

---

### Post by Eersfanpilot on 2013-04-12
I was able to get Ubuntu to install again, dual  with Windows. 

 It said the installation was complete but boots to a black screen,  same way it was acting coming out of sleep. 

 Help?

---

### Post by Habanero101 on 2013-04-12
Since you have already reinstalled Ubuntu;

I would suggest formatting the partition with Ubuntu in it or deleting it, and purging grub if grub was not in that partition. Get windows to boot, normally - use your windows cd/dvd and repair, it should repair the boot.

Then recreate the partition if deleted and reinstall Ubuntu from scratch - this landmine approach should take care of all your troubles.

---

### Post by Eersfanpilot on 2013-04-12
Ok, I have it deleted.  Windows boots fine,  how do I purge Grub?

---

### Post by Habanero101 on 2013-04-12
Is it still showing up? Where did you install it when you installed Ubuntu?

---

### Post by Habanero101 on 2013-04-12
If grub is still showing up on restart, try this:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/151253/removing-grub-from-windows-system-after-uninstalling-from-withing-windows](http://askubuntu.com/questions/151253/removing-grub-from-windows-system-after-uninstalling-from-withing-windows)

if it still shows up, try this from a live cd terminal:

[COLOR=DarkRed]sudo apt-get purge grub grub-pc grub-common
[/COLOR]
from: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099)

---

### Post by Eersfanpilot on 2013-04-12
I don't have installation discs for Windows 8  so I would have to make a recovery CD. 

 Can I just try the second option?

---

### Post by Habanero101 on 2013-04-12
no harm in trying, unless one of the other members tells you otherwise.

---

### Post by Eersfanpilot on 2013-04-12
Alright,  did option two.  Windows still boots normal.  Now during install for 12.10 I no longer get the option for dual boot. I have tried to create a new formatted and unformatted partition, and also tried installing without.

---

### Post by Eersfanpilot on 2013-04-13
Kept at it and now I am finally back with a fresh install. Not sure what did it, just kept repeating the same install procedure I have previously done. It just decided to work I guess?? But anyway, Back online with Ubuntu 12.10. 

Thanks for any and all help you guys provided.

---

