---
title: "ns2"
date: 2014-06-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Dcrox on 2014-06-29
Hello,
im new at Ubuntu and NS2 so i have a question.
I installed NS2 using sudo apt-get ns2 and it all works fine
but i cant find where the files where installed in order o modify some  of them. Specifically i want to modify aodv.h and aodv.cc for a project  of mine.

With the other method of installing ns2 (nsallinone) i know where the  files are because i choose where to put them, but i have other problems  with this method so i gave up.

Can anyone please help me? Where did the files go? I searched for the  installation via synaptics but is isnt there but the program works fine.
Thnx everyone in advance

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2014-06-29
Hello and welcome to the forums

To get and modify those files you will need to install the package from source and then recompile it - see this previous thread --> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2193716](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2193716)

---

### Post by Dcrox on 2014-06-29
> **steeldriver said:**
> Hello and welcome to the forums

To get and modify those files you will need to install the package from source and then recompile it - see this previous thread --> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2193716](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2193716)


Thankx for the quick reply.. i install the package using

sudo apt-get install ns2
sudo apt-get install nam
sudo apt-get install xgraph

and then i compile tcl file using 

ns aodv.tcl

then after complie there are two files were created aodv.nam file and .tr file so i run nam file using 

nam aodv.nam

but i coudn't find aodv.h and aodv.cc files i go through that above mention thread also but i coudn't find the answer please tell me if i did a mistake.
or are there any other packages to install. 

thank you

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2014-06-29
If you install Synaptic Package Manager and search for ns2, you can right-click and select "properties". One of the tabs is "installed files," which shows you all the files, and their locations. It only works for installed packages.

---

