---
title: "12.04  pendrive install"
date: 2012-07-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by BennieBlount on 2012-07-24
I installed Ubuntu 12.04 on a Sandisk usb drive using usb-creator-gtk. My question is: when it boots up there is the option to "try ubuntu" or "install ubuntu", will this option screen always appear at boot, or is there a way to boot directly into Ubuntu without having to choose "try" or "install"?

Thanks

---

### Post by critin on 2012-07-24
> **BennieBlount said:**
> I installed Ubuntu 12.04 on a Sandisk usb drive using usb-creator-gtk. My question is: when it boots up there is the option to "try ubuntu" or "install ubuntu", will this option screen always appear at boot, or is there a way to boot directly into Ubuntu without having to choose "try" or "install"?

Thanks

*(edited to say I think I misunderstood.  You have installed on the usb and plan to keep it there--right?)   If it is installed correctly, no it shouldn't say Try.*  (I was thinking of a small flash usb drive)

If you don't install it to the HDD, yes it will always give the option to Try.  Once it is installed, it will boot directly into ubuntu.  If you plan on keeping it on the flash, it will not save your daily work unless you've made the flash 'persistent'.

The Try option is to 'try' it, to see if it works/if you like it well enough to install permanently.

---

### Post by z3nhakr on 2012-07-24
> **BennieBlount said:**
> I installed Ubuntu 12.04 on a Sandisk usb drive using usb-creator-gtk. My question is: when it boots up there is the option to "try ubuntu" or "install ubuntu", will this option screen always appear at boot, or is there a way to boot directly into Ubuntu without having to choose "try" or "install"?

Thanks
  yes you will always have the option to try/install
if you don't want this, try setting up the usb with unetbootin

---

### Post by z3nhakr on 2012-07-24
OR you can install onto a new usb from the usb you already have. that might be a bit easier

---

### Post by BennieBlount on 2012-07-24
[QUOTE=critin;12127323]*(edited to say I think I misunderstood.  You have installed on the usb and plan to keep it there--right?)   If it is installed correctly, no it shouldn't say Try.*

Right, I want to keep it on the usb and run it from the usb. As I said, I used the "usb-creator-gtk" from the terminal and included a 2Gb presistence on the pendrive. Is there another way of installing to a usb drive other than using "usb-creator-gtk" from the terminal?

Is Unetbootin the correct method?

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2012-07-24
Look here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1872303](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1872303)
The posts and How To talk about Lubuntu but Ubuntu can be installed as well.  Enjoy.

---

