---
title: "8.10 Install Problems"
date: 2009-03-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by coloradoparrothead on 2009-03-23
I tried to install 8.10 yesterday without success. Following a seemingly smooth install, when my PC rebooted I got a logon screen that worked, but only got a tan background and a mouse pointer. The mouse pointer was functional, but no menu items or icons were present. I downloaded another ISO from a different machine and burned another copy with the same result. I then did a clean install of version 7.04 which ran perfectly. I again tried to install 8.10 with the same results as the first attempt. I am able to boot in the failsafe terminal mode which seems normal. My machine is an Intel chipset with a P4 2.66Ghz. Processor with 1280Mb RAM. 

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-03-23
Try hardy, 8.04.

---

### Post by Sylslay on 2009-03-23
I had the same problem between upgrate from relase 8.04 LTS to 8.10,
The some behavior of mouse pointer. I found that was in my case a graphic driver isue. I add new repo for intel 845 graphic card and install /add to source thouse new line at url  "http://ppa.launchpad.net/intel-gfx-testing/ubuntu/" Distribution intrepid ;Componetnts: main
and url "http://ppa.launchpad.net/intel-gfx-testing/ubuntu" Dstribution interpaid; Copmponets : main

And got the same problem w with 8,04LTS from time to time as well, 
but since upgrate graphic driver for intel chipset everything work perfect.

---

### Post by e_james on 2009-03-23
coloradoparrothead

My experience with any specific version is quite limited (see my signature) but I can make some suggestions based on what I think I know. It may be that you can fix the problem without ever knowing what it was.

When Ubuntu installs, if you have a working internet connection, it will attempt to install updated software as it goes. This may be an advantage but it takes longer. If you make a point of disconnecting the internet as I usually do, then the installation can only use what's on the CD. You can get the updates later.

I assume you are using the Live CD and that it worked acceptably otherwise you couldn't run the install. I have found that sometimes the Alternate CD does the installation with less complications (and more choices).

If you apply selected options as the CD starts, these seem to be carried through into the final install.

When Ubuntu boots up it uses 3 distinct graphics modes - one for the splash screen (the orange progress bar), one for login and one for the user desktop. Each of these can have different resolutions. I am assuming that if you can get your desktop running in any reasonable resolution, it will make further investigations easier. There may be some useful ideas here

[https://help.ubuntu.com/search.html?cof=FORID%3A9&cx=003883529982892832976%3Ae2vwumte3fq&ie=UTF-8&q=resolution&sa=Search](https://help.ubuntu.com/search.html?cof=FORID%3A9&cx=003883529982892832976%3Ae2vwumte3fq&ie=UTF-8&q=resolution&sa=Search)

and specifically here

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution)

I have used this command "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" on some occasions in the recovery startup, but it may not be appropriate for 8.10.
The basic technique is just to accept all the defaults but you can set limits on your screen resolution.

A more extreme idea might be to install Kubuntu or Xubuntu which have different desktop software. Once successfully installed you can then install the Gnome desktop if you wish.

---

