---
title: "9.04 freezes during boot"
date: 2009-08-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by SigMtnDawg on 2009-08-12
This got zero response under general help, so I'll try the noobie area.  After all, some may call this a noobie question.

 9.04 freezes during boot
I'm a bit of a noob, so please forgive any noobieness to this post. However, I did search quite a bit before starting a new post.

Here's my problem. Occasionally (so not every time), Ubuntu freezes during boot. In order to get it moving again, I can push 'Enter' or one of the arrow buttons. Unfortunately, I have to do this many times or it just sits there. Also, I can't just hit one of those buttons each time if freezes, because it doesn't always work. In other words, I sometimes have to wait a few seconds and hit the buttons again.

Before this started, I had a nice startup time of about 65-70 seconds. Now, it may take 2-3 minutes. Speed is not my biggest concern here, but I would like to have my zippy machine back on a consistent basis. My biggest concern is some possibly bigger looming problem with who knows what, but I have run diagnostics on the hardware, and nothing appears to be wrong.

Thanks in advance for the help.

---

### Post by zeroseven0183 on 2009-08-12
Hi! It would be helpful also if you could post the hardware specs of your computer.

In your System Monitor (System > Administration), what process takes up a lot of CPU usage?

---

### Post by SigMtnDawg on 2009-08-12
OK, system is an HP with AMD Turion & 3 GB of ram & 150 GB hard drive.  The Ubuntu version is 9.04, Kernel Linux 2.6.28-14-generic, GNOME 2.26.1.

The gnome-system-monitor takes up about 10-15% and firefox takes up about 2-3%, but I don't think that matters.  The real issue is that often (about 65% of the time now) when I start up the system, it hangs up at the Ubuntu splash screen.  I suppose it would finally get going on its own, but my impatience has led me to figure out that pressing 'Enter' or the arrow buttons sort-of kick starts it into continuing.  Once the system gets booted up, it seems to work OK.  I'm just worried that there's something worse going on.

How do I fix this, and should I be concerned?

Thanks

---

### Post by xPr0star on 2009-08-12
Disable splash try to see where it's hanging open up terminal and type ```
 sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
``` remove quiet and splash entries

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-08-12
see if you can get a verbose start-up report and/or log

if you watch the verbose you might see what's hanging

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1108364](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1108364)

.

---

### Post by SigMtnDawg on 2009-08-13
OK, how do I get a verbose startup report/log?  I see many logs under System Log Viewer, but I don't know which one to use.

Thanks

---

### Post by cookiedemkp on 2009-08-14
Hey try this, go and
```
sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```and where it shows your kernel at the very bottom, the line should look similar to
```
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-14-generic root=UUID=1886BA2586BA0374 loop=/ubuntu/disks/root.disk ro ROOTFLAGS=syncio quiet splash
```add this line onto the very end of that line:
```
acpi=noirq
```so it will finally look like this:
```
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-14-generic root=UUID=1886BA2586BA0374 loop=/ubuntu/disks/root.disk ro ROOTFLAGS=syncio quiet splash acpi=noirq
```That should stop you from having to hold a button. Call me a liar if that doesnt work.

---

