---
title: ".deb installations / launching apps"
date: 2009-02-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gilbertuntu on 2009-02-26
Hi guys,

Getting back into 'nix... we're installing Cinelerra and other apps via .deb format, installs fine via GDebi package installer (GUI) but cannot work out how to launch the apps / add them to menus.

Packages  > Cinelerra & BitTorrent.

Any help on how to find the launch commands in the future would also be greatly appreciated!

Thanks again for your continued help. :p

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-02-26
If they didn't add automagicaly. it's probably a command line app.

---

### Post by meney on 2009-02-26
Several ways you can do this I think. If you hit Alt-F2 it will open the run application box, from here you can start typing the command (usually the name of the program you just installed) and Ubuntu will auto finish the command. Another way, if you don't know the command, is to open up the terminal, type the first few letters of what you think the command will be, and then hit your tab key twice. This will instruct ubuntu to list all the commands on your system that start with the letters you have just typed. :)

---

### Post by meney on 2009-02-26
Also, sometimes after an install you may need to logout/restart for some of the applications to show up in the menu's.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-02-26
There's a screencast in my signature that shows you how to find where programs have installed, and add them to your application menu. The screencast is still relevent when you install a .deb package manually, like you have done.

---

