---
title: "10.10 way too slow (checked all the other similar topics, no help)"
date: 2010-10-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Colex on 2010-10-30
intel core duo 2.1ghz
3gb ram

Fresh install of 10.10, updated up to date, cleaned with janitor, autoclean and synaptic, ATI drivers installed.
 
Stil...

5seconds to load chromium
17 to load eclipse
30 to boot 

on 10.04 it was much faster. :(

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-10-30
Have you got anything running that takes a lot of resources? Check it with top instead of system monitor, as system monitor adds it's own overhead.

---

### Post by Colex on 2010-10-30
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Have you got anything running that takes a lot of resources? Check it with top instead of system monitor, as system monitor adds it's own overhead.

I did. And saw that compiz was consuming the most. As an idiot I uninstalled it. I lost a lot of graphical content, couldn't live without it, installed compiz back and it's not the same. :( 
I'm getting some weird pixels and shades when I'm opening something, it's the same with minimizing. It's also a bit slower than before in opening chromium I guess. 

Anyways, could you help me bring my "old" compiz settings back?

---

### Post by Colex on 2010-10-31
I'm also getting this message from chromium:

"
Your profile could not be opened correctly.

Some features may be unavailable.  Please check that the profile exists and you have permission to read and write its contents.
"

---

### Post by Colex on 2010-11-02
Oh this is awful now... terminal background is not transparent no matter how I set it in the visual effects menu. Chromium gives me a message every time I open it: "Your profile could not be loaded correctly"


I want my old 'buntu back. :(

---

### Post by tejpatil on 2010-11-07
> **Colex said:**
> intel core duo 2.1ghz
3gb ram
 
Fresh install of 10.10, updated up to date, cleaned with janitor, autoclean and synaptic, ATI drivers installed.
 
Stil...
 
5seconds to load chromium
17 to load eclipse
30 to boot 
 
on 10.04 it was much faster. :(
 
Please refer to this topic you will find most answers
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592245](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592245)

---

