---
title: "Multiple entries in 'Open With'"
date: 2008-11-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by FreewheelinFrank on 2008-11-06
When I right click on a media file there are two entries for VLC in the menu which appears (only one of which works).

If I select the 'Open With Other Application', there are seven instances of VLC, only one of which works (the others say 'Could not find 'wxvlc').

There are also three instances of Text Editor, and two of Amarok and Firefox.

How did this mess happen, is it a bug, and how can I clean it up?

:confused:

---

### Post by bscbrit on 2008-11-06
If you right click on the file and select Properties, and then the Open With tab, how many items are in the menu and are there any duplicates?  If there are duplicates, highlight them, right click and select delete so that there is only 1 instance of each possible program left in the menu.  See if that cures your problem.

How did it occur?  I don't know, but if it returns after taking the action above - or if my suggestion doesn't make things any better - then come back here and we will have to dig a little deeper.

---

### Post by FreewheelinFrank on 2008-11-06
Thanks.

There were two of VLC. I deleted one but the one that was left didn't work. I right-clicked the file and found an instance of VLC out of the seven there that worked. That played the file once, but not a second time by double-cling on it. Now in Properties>Open With there are two VLC's again.

Other people seem to have the same problem:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-393453.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-393453.html)

[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/7638/](http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/7638/)

---

### Post by bscbrit on 2008-11-06
1. OK, to try to help me pin this down a little, can you go back to Properties, Open With tag and delete ALL the entries that you find there.

2. Try just left clicking on the program - the first time it shouldn't know what to use to open the file, so from Open with Another Application select the program that you want to use. Check how many duplicates exist in this menu please.

3. Now, go back to the Properties, Open With tag, and tell me what has appeared, if anything, in that menu.

Repeat 2 and 3 a couple of times and see if which menus start growing.

---

### Post by FreewheelinFrank on 2008-11-06
1) OK, did that.

2) There were (are) seven for VLC, only one of which works.

3) VLC appeared in the menu.

VLC now works as the default 'double-click' player for that type of file.

Repeating the steps, I was able to add Movie Player (Totem) and MPlayer.

Properties>Open With now looks OK too.

Which just leaves the question of why there are seven instances of VLC in the Open With Other Application menu, along with the multiple entire for Amarok, Text Editor and Firefox.

---

### Post by bscbrit on 2008-11-06
I agree.

I cannot find a way to delete the entries from the Open With menu and, not knowing the code in any detail, I can only assume that they are generated by a piece of code that is not behaving the way it should. In short - a bug!

I'm going to search the known bug list to see if I can find anything that resembles this particular fault and, if not, we can raise a bug report for it.  The search will probably take several hours minimum.

Can you please tell me what version of Ubuntu you are running, so that I can focus my search?  I'll also need to have package details if we have to raise a bug report, but that will wait for later.

By all means keep looking for an answer.  I'll be monitoring this thread but possibly will not be back until tomorrow with the results of my search.

---

### Post by FreewheelinFrank on 2008-11-06
OK. Thanks for your help. Ubuntu 8.10. (And this computer has been updated a couple of times at least, so those entries might have been generated by 7.10 or 8.04.) Let me know how to find the package details if you need them.

---

### Post by bscbrit on 2008-11-06
Thanks, the fact that you have upgraded several times might be significant.  If each 'upgrade' has added its own entries to the menu then that might be one cause.  Another might be that if, say, vlc has been upgraded 7 times since 7.04 then each entry in the menu might point to a different version of vlc - which might also explain why the earlier versions no longer work.  Ah well, this is all speculation - I'm off to see what I can find....

---

### Post by bscbrit on 2008-11-06
I cannot find any bug reports similar to those that you have given me - so perhaps we ought to submit a report.

If you open Synaptic and search for nautilus, it should give you the version number of your installed desktop - I am assuming that you are running the standard Gnome desktop!?  I'm going to check my other computers to see if any exhibit a similar bug.

---

### Post by bscbrit on 2008-11-06
That didn't take me long - I found the same bug with media files on one of my systems.

---

### Post by FreewheelinFrank on 2008-11-07
Thanks.

I've filed a bug report here using my launchpad account:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/295267](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/295267)

---

### Post by bscbrit on 2008-11-07
Thank you.  Sorry we couldn't solve your problem.

Hope to see you around the forums (or, more correctly, fora). :-)

---

### Post by FreewheelinFrank on 2008-11-07
Thanks again for your help in getting the right-click menu working: the other multiple entries are not really any trouble, but with any luck the bug report will allow someone to find the problem.

---

### Post by kernelhaxor on 2008-11-07
did u guys do a upgrade to 8.10?  I had the same problem and it arose when I did an upgrade to 8.10 .. the VLC in 8.10 is the ported to Qt but the VLC I had on my system was different .. and something messed up during the upgrade I think for me

I did a clean install and all's fine for me now ..

---

### Post by bscbrit on 2008-11-07
kernelhaxor

Yes I've upgraded to 8.10 but I think that I have found the fault under 8.04 as well.  My guess is that as a package gets upgraded then it creates a new menu entry and link to the new binary, but does not delete older links to binaries that have been removed.  I'm still working on it. :-)

FreewheelinFrank

You're welcome.  Hopefully your bug report will result in others not having this problem in the future.

---

