---
title: "Touchpad problems DellXPSM1530 Ubuntu 8.04"
date: 2008-06-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by johnself on 2008-06-03
Apologies - I am an extreme newbie to Linux (also I've never owned a laptop before).  I'd like to try Ubuntu out and have installed Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Desktop edition.  

My system is a Dell XPSM1530 with an Intel Core2 Duo CPU T9300 2.50 GHz and 4gb RAM.  

I'm having issues with the touchpad - i.e. it won't work.  Could it be as simple as I have the wrong version of Ubuntu (Desktop as opposed to laptop?)? 

Any help that could be provided would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-06-03
You will need to make sure you have these lines in the xorg.conf file.

**Alt-F2**

```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Look through the file for these lines, if they are not present, or are missing the SHMConfig portion then copy paste from this post:

```
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"      "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
	Option         	"SHMConfig"             "true"
EndSection
```

If you get lost or are uncertain be sure to come back and ask, you've joined a very friendly community here, and we'll get you going :)

---

### Post by johnself on 2008-06-03
Many thanks for your quick post.  I tried what you suggested and now the touchpad won't respond at all (previously it sort of jumped around in the lower left hand corner).  Any other suggestions?  Or is there more information I need to provide?  Thanks again for bearing with me.

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-06-04
post the contents of your xorg.conf here please, I'll take a look

---

### Post by johnself on 2008-06-04
Here are the contents of my xorg.conf file after I made the changes you suggested.  Thanks for your help.  


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver        "synaptics"
    Option        "SendCoreEvents"    "true"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
    Option        "Protocol"        "auto-dev"
    Option        "HorizScrollDelta"    "0"
    Option        "SHMConfig"        "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-06-04
Lets try installing a touchpad gui

```
sudo apt-get install gsynaptics
```

I'll check back in about 30min to see how your getting on.

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-06-04
Did gsynaptics get your touchpad working?

---

### Post by johnself on 2008-06-04
It's quite possible I did this incorrectly, but when I tried to install the gsynaptics I got the following error message:

tsd@tsd-laptop:~$ sudo apt-get install gsynaptics
[sudo] password for tsd: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Package gsynaptics is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
is only available from another source
E: Package gsynaptics has no installation candidate
tsd@tsd-laptop:~$

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-06-05
Hmm thats odd, maybe you don't have the necessary sources enabled. Look at your Software Sources program in System Administration if theres a couple boxes unchecked in the 3rd party tab, check them and then try again.

---

### Post by johnself on 2008-06-05
There were two third party software options unchecked.  I checked them and then reinstalled.  The installation seemed to proceed without a problem then, but my touchpad still is really wonky/un-usable.  I appreciate your help, but maybe this is more trouble than it's worth.

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-06-05
No don't give up, this is normally not this rough. hang on, I've got some time right now.

If you want we can VNC and I'll show ya how.

---

### Post by epk on 2008-07-29
Hello - Im also new to Linux. I have installed Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Desktop edition.

Like you I have a Dell XPSM1530 with an Intel Core2 Duo CPU T9300 2.50 GHz and 3gb RAM.

Did you manage to solve your trackpad issue? I am having the exact same problem..

Thanks

---

