---
title: "8.10 boot hangs"
date: 2009-01-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Luffer on 2009-01-05
I have upgraded my 8.04 version of Ubuntu to 8.10 and now it won't boot. I removed the "quiet splash" option on the command line when booting into Ubuntu and it's hanging on the "Setting up console font and keymap" section.

A google showed that adding "noapic" at the end of the command line fixed it for one person. But that hasn't solved it for me.

Can anyone help?

---

### Post by cmnorton on 2009-01-05
Do you see the splash screen?

If you do, does pressing CTRL+ALT+F1 produce a traditional log in menu? If it does, where do you hang?

---

### Post by Luffer on 2009-01-05
No, don't see a splash screen, it's just black. But it just gave me a text prompt for me to login, which I've done. I'm now looking at a command prompt.

---

### Post by cmnorton on 2009-01-05
Are you logged in as root? Your command prompt would start with '#'.

If you are run dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg, take the default answers and reboot. Maybe you got into a graphics config problem when installing. It would not be the first time it's happened.

---

### Post by Luffer on 2009-01-05
I'm logged in as me so my prompt is:

```

james@james-laptop:~$

```

---

### Post by cmnorton on 2009-01-05
While you are at a prompt, look at the output of dmesg and look in /var/log/messages (sudo tail /var/log/messages and /var/log/syslog (sudo tail /var/log/syslog) to see if there are any reasons given as to why you could not boot into your gui before.

If you cannot find a reason, run 

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

and take all the default settings, expcept I would provide yourself with some lower resolution settings. Then reboot. If that does not work, re configure the X-server as noted above, and choose the vesa driver.

---

### Post by Luffer on 2009-01-05
I ran that but it only asked me about my keyboard. Nothing about resolutions or vesa drivers.

---

### Post by cmnorton on 2009-01-05
I have not tried this without being in recovery mode, so you might have to reboot into recovery mode and try it. Did you try running it with sudo in front of it?

Also, give you're logged in at a command line:

Does this command

ps -ef | grep X

produce something like this:

~$ ps -ef | grep X
root      5576  5569  2 08:10 tty7     00:03:12 /usr/bin/X -br -nolisten tcp :0 vt7 -auth /var/run/xauth/A:0-EEkyth

If X is running, try entering CTRL+ALT+F7 to see if you can get a graphical interface now.

If not, boot into recovery mode and retry dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

You should be prompted for a lot more than keyboard.

---

### Post by Luffer on 2009-01-05
Weird, no idea how I got the command prompt last time... it just sort of happened. I can't get it back now following a reset.

Even booting in recovery mode is still just gets to "Setting up console font and keymap...." and hangs there.

---

### Post by Luffer on 2009-01-05
Got a command prompt back now, the outout of:

```

~$ ps -ef | grep X
james   12872 12490 0 16:32 tty1   00:00:00 grep X

```

Hitting CTRL+ALT+F7 lands me with a black screen and blinking cursor top left.
Hitting

---

### Post by cmnorton on 2009-01-05
X is not running. Reboot into recovery mode and run on dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg as previously instructed.

---

### Post by Luffer on 2009-01-05
Just done that again, it only goes through a few keyboard options, then puts me back at the command prompt.

---

### Post by Luffer on 2009-01-05
aha, a potential lead.....

When selecting "resume normal boot" it gives the following error:

```

* Loading ACPI modules...                                               [ OK ]
* Starting ACPI modules...                                              [ OK ]
* Starting system log daemon...                                         [ OK ]
* Doing Wacom setup...                                                  [ OK ]
* Starting kernel log daemon...                                         [ OK ]
* Starting system message bus dbus                                      [ OK ]
* Starting Avahi mDNS/DNS-SD Daemon avahi-daemon                        [ OK ]
* Starting atieventsd                                                   [ OK ]
* Starting Common Unix Printing system: cupsd                           [ OK ]
* Running DKMS auto installation service for kernel 2.6.22-14-generic
*  fglrx (8.543)...                                                     [[COLOR="Red"]fail[/COLOR]]
* Starting powernowd...                                                 [ OK ]
* Starting hardware abstraction layer hald                              [ OK ]
* Starting bluetooth                                                    [ OK ]
* Starting Network manager...                                           [ OK ]
* Starting GNOME Display Manager...                                     [ OK ]
* Starting System Tools Backends system-tools-backends                  [ OK ]
* Starting anac(h)ronistic cron amacron                                 [ OK ]
* Starting deffered execution scheduler atd                             [ OK ]
* Starting periodic command scheduler crond                             [ OK ]
* Checking battery state...                                             [ OK ]

Ubuntu 8.10 james-laptop tty1

james-laptop login: _

```

So what does that fail mean, and how do I correct it?

---

### Post by cmnorton on 2009-01-05
I would Google for the error. That's how I find a lot of my problems. I would also search Ubuntu Launchpad for this to see if it's a question or reported bug.

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu)

---

### Post by Luffer on 2009-01-05
To be honest I've had enough now, really. Just search my previous posts to see the problems I've endured in my quest to get a working Ubuntu installation!

Having finally got it working a bit earlier, wireless wasn't working, an Atheros network card FWIW. Found some step by step instuctions that I was following to the letter, except half way through it just decided not to do what the tutorial said it would. Just threw an error out at me, no idea what it meant, complete garbage... and they say MS errors are vague... PAH!

So anyway, hooked it up via ethernet and let update manager go to work. It found 33 updates which I let it install, rebooted.... and now it's trashed my OS........ AGAIN! I've never known such flaky, buggy and appaling software in my life. It just boots to a black screen now, I hear the sound for the login prompt but just a totally black screen.

I've wasted enough of my time and effort on Ubuntu and Linux. Windows might not be perfect and it has some flaws... but at least it doesn't trash my whole system because it found an update!

It feels like for every step foward I make, I get put ten steps backwards! I'm sure if you have a perfectly compatible system then it works like a charm, just seems only about 2% of hardware IS actually compatible.

People here are always keen to try and help, and that is really appreciated. But the fact is, they can't, because Ubuntu just isn't good enough! So many times people have spouted all sorts of theories at me, but after a couple of posts they are all stumped and give up. So what hope do I ever have?

I consider myself to be very patient, methodical, and tech-savy. But even I have come to the end of my tether now.

I feel this may be the end of the road for Ubuntu and me.

---

### Post by cmnorton on 2009-01-06
What kind of hardware is this, and what is its configuration?

I've inquired as to whether or not your problem is related to this.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dkms/+bug/247523](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dkms/+bug/247523)

As an aside, the most problems I've had with any Linux distro is on laptops. I have had most distros, including Ubuntu, install on any old desktop hardware, including older model Pentium IVs.

Edit:
---------------
Here are some additional links:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/f-333-p-61.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/f-333-p-61.html)
[http://www.mail-archive.com/ubuntu-bugs@lists.ubuntu.com/msg1188234.html](http://www.mail-archive.com/ubuntu-bugs@lists.ubuntu.com/msg1188234.html)
[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3098620](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3098620)

---

### Post by lord_lethris on 2009-01-06
9/10 of my bootup hangs are USB devices.

Just remove them all (unless its mouse and keyboard) and try again.

---

