---
title: "8.10 Weird behavior"
date: 2008-11-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Zhane on 2008-11-18
I've untick my "Enable Wireless", but everytime it reboots, it is enabled by itself and scan for my area. Not only that, there was a few times after disabling it, it suddenly goes on by itself while using.


I've also chose auto login. It has been okay all along, but just now, the login screen appeared, requesting that I log in.

Are these bugs?

---

### Post by bscbrit on 2008-11-19
> I've untick my "Enable Wireless", but everytime it reboots, it is enabled by itself and scan for my area. Not only that, there was a few times after disabling it, it suddenly goes on by itself while using.

This appears to be the new 'default' behaviour for NetworkManager.  It is very good at finding and logging on to wireless networks but it has forgotten that not everyone wants it to do this.  (The new behaviour seems well suited to laptops but is not what many desktop users want.  It also refuses quite stubbornly to play nicely with wired networks which, In my experience, are far more common than wireless networks.  Perhaps I'm just moving in the wrong circles.... :-) ) Whether that is viewed as a bug by the developers remains to be seen.  Some, myself included, have uninstalled NM and installed wicd ([http://wicd.sourceforge.net/download.php](http://wicd.sourceforge.net/download.php)) which behaves itself.

The auto log in is a new one for me.  Check that you have auto log in selected still and, if you have, raise it as a bug report please.

---

