---
title: "nvidia-settings thinks my monitor is bigger than it is"
date: 2009-05-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by particleman on 2009-05-23
Here's my configuration-

GTX-285
Ubuntu 9.04 clean install
Nvidia driver 180
Toshiba 20HLV86 tv using a dvi to vga adapter

Here's my problem-
The monitor will display just fine at 1024x768, although this doesn't look the best on a widescreen monitor.  At 1360x768, which the tv manual says this monitor is clearly capable of, the monitor displays, but a good chunk of the left of the screen is cut off, like the system is trying to draw a screen that's too big for the physical monitor.  Nvidia-settings says that at 1360x768 the monitor is 460mm x 260, which is actually 23mm longer than the physical dimensions of the screen (437mm x 260mm, yes I checked).  I've tried adjusting various settings in xorg.conf, while running as sudo, all to no effect.  Any help that could be given would be greatly appreciated.  Screencaps/config file dumps are happily available upon request.

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-05-23
What is the recommended (native) resolution of the monitor?

---

### Post by particleman on 2009-05-23
According to the spec sheet the monitor is 1366x768.  Acceptable pc display modes it supports are 640x480, 720x400, 848x480, 800x600, 1024x768, 1280x720, 1280x768, 1360x768.

---

### Post by SuperSonic4 on 2009-05-23
I'd just sacrifice 6 pixels of width and pick 1360x768...

Can you post up your xorg.conf

---

### Post by particleman on 2009-05-23
I'd love to.  The problem is that when the display is set in nvidia-settings to 1360x768, it draws a 1360x768 screen-that happens to be bigger than the physical monitor.  Also, when I edit my xorg.conf file either the changes don't stay made, or they don't work.  It seems to be a configuration error of some kind, not a hardware issue.  Here's my xorg.conf

>>>
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Sun Feb  1 20:25:37 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: xconfig, VertRefresh source: xconfig
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-1"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 55.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTX 285"
EndSection

#Section "Screen"
 #   Identifier     "Screen0"
  #  Device         "Device0"
   # Monitor        "Monitor0"
    #DefaultDepth    24
    #Option         "TwinView" "0"
    #Option         "metamodes" "1360x768 +0+0; 1360x768 @1360x768 -584+0"
    #SubSection     "Display"
    #    Depth       24
    #EndSubSection
#EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Screen0"
	Device		"Device0"
	Monitor		"Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth	24
	Option "TwinView " "on"
	Option "TwinViewOrientation" "RightOf"
	Option "MetaModes" "1360x768 -1000,NULL"
	#Option "SecondMonitorHorizSync" "30 - 96.0"
	#Option "SecondMonitorVertRefresh" "50 - 120"
	Subsection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes	"1360x768" "1152x864" "1024x768"
	EndSubsection
EndSection
<<<

Note that I've tried modifying the screen section, but with no effect (even negative).  Is there another place where nvidia-settings would store its settings on a per user basis?

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-05-24
> **particleman said:**
> Note that I've tried modifying the screen section, but with no effect (even negative).  Is there another place where nvidia-settings would store its settings on a per user basis?

Nvidia settings details are stored in ~/.nvidia-settings-rc.  There is a good man page for it.

---

