---
title: "9.10 Nautilus does not automatically reload folder content"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by PunkLV on 2009-11-03
Hello.
Clean install of 9.10 Koala bothers be with only one thing, which I fail to google-out.

Nautilus does not automatically reload/update folder content:
If, for example, I have a nautilus window opened on /home/<user>/ and I mkdir in that folder, it will not appear in nautilus window, unless I manually click Reload button, even if I browse Up/Back/Forward, it still would not appear
This goes to folder and file settings and permissions as well.

This actually reminds me of the Windows's Refresh, which assosiates only with frustration.
Does anyone else has this issue? And how it can possibly be fixed?

I miss my 9.04.

---

### Post by PunkLV on 2009-11-03
Seems I'm the only one with such issue.

---

### Post by soni1770 on 2009-11-03
yea, happens to me to, but i still like 9,10 as thats my only problem,
and linux just wouldn't be the same without problems:popcorn:

---

### Post by Hund on 2009-11-26
Same problem here.

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-11-26
Err.. works here.

Place >home open. Terminal mkdir test. It appeared instantly.

---

### Post by Hund on 2009-11-26
The Desktop folder are the folder I have most problems with, really annoying.

---

### Post by julio prada on 2009-11-30
It happens to me sometimes, the mouse pointer shows the wait state and after a while it works.

---

### Post by Hund on 2009-11-30
I opened the proposed repo and a newer version of Nautilus was there and that version solved my problems. :)

---

### Post by Raffles10 on 2009-11-30
Check that you have gamin installed. I've had trouble with gamin before, on an Arch installation I used fam instead, more reliable IMO but it conflicts with gamin. Gamin seems to be preferred these days because it doesn't need to be run as a daemon. Not so reliable though. :(

---

### Post by BrentC on 2009-12-05
> **Hund said:**
> I opened the proposed repo and a newer version of Nautilus was there and that version solved my problems. :)

Listing the repo would have been nice...

---

### Post by Hund on 2009-12-05
> **BrentC said:**
> Listing the repo would have been nice...

Just enable it in your sources.list.

---

### Post by The_Pirate_King on 2009-12-05
You're not the only one; I have had the exact same problem.

---

### Post by ed-koala on 2009-12-05
Nautilus currently has a known bug where files/folders will sometimes not show up even though they are there. To fix the problem, open System - Administration - System Monitor, click on Processes tab, scroll down  and highlight Nautilus and click End Process. Now opening Nautilus will work as it should.

---

### Post by BrentC on 2009-12-05
> **Hund said:**
> Just enable it in your sources.list.

You never said ***which*** repo is what I was getting at.

---

### Post by pietro_spina on 2009-12-05
Go to 
System---> Administration---> Software Sources
and the "Updates" tab

And check the "proposed" tick box.

See attached screen shot

Or just hang tight until it is moved from "proposed" to "updated"

---

### Post by brendanpiater on 2010-01-12
Hi,

I've had this issue for awhile now and it's eventually bugged me enough to do something about it. 

I'm running nautilus ver 1:2.28.1-0ubuntu3 from the repos. No updates available for nautilus via the proposed repo for me. So believe I have the latest version available for karmic, but still experiencing this issue.

Any thoughts? Anyone got the link to this bug in launchpad?

Cheers
B

---

### Post by shaiss on 2010-03-25
I had the same issue.  I found this on another thread somewhere but it works.

```
sudo /etc/init.d/dbus-1 restart
```

Note that doing this restarted my session then froze at the login window.  I had to hit the power button, but after coming back to my desktop the problem was gone.

Wierd as before a normal restart didnt help.

---

### Post by brendanpiater on 2010-03-31
```
sudo /etc/init.d/dbus-1 restart
```

On 10.04 I get "command not found" unfortunately, and still have the same issue. Bummer.

---

### Post by m4cph1sto on 2010-05-01
I have this bug in 10.04 final, and it's extremely annoying.  There's a bug report filed for it:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/573160]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/573160")

---

### Post by rmbell on 2010-06-13
I have this bug in 10.04 and its REALLY annoying. Other things seem to not update as well, if update-manager shows up, and I install the updates, it still sits there saying I have to install them still.

---

### Post by slash86 on 2010-06-13
just press F5, it won't take much of your time ;)

---

### Post by heatpumpcontrol on 2010-07-28
> **shaiss said:**
> I had the same issue.  I found this on another thread somewhere but it works.

```
sudo /etc/init.d/dbus-1 restart
```

Note that doing this restarted my session then froze at the login window.  I had to hit the power button, but after coming back to my desktop the problem was gone.

Wierd as before a normal restart didnt help.

This didn't work for me, but

I reinstalled

gamin

and installed 

python-gamin

just to try and now when rendering a video, I don't have to hit F5.

---

### Post by BFG on 2010-12-05
I get this too. 

> **slash86 said:**
> just press F5, it won't take much of your time ;)

with 2 monitors and typically 12+ nautilus windows open for my work, yes, it takes far too much of my time. And introduces human errors.  It should work. Workarounds are the Microsoft way ;)

I tried reinstalling gamin and add python-gamin, and this worked for local volumes, but NFS and CIFS mounts still fail to refresh.


It's one of those really annoying situations where windows does it better.

---

