---
title: "10.10 RC install results in display mess"
date: 2010-10-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Djalmahal on 2010-10-02
Did anybody have this happen?

I tried to boot the 10.10 RC (as well as the Beta) from a USB, after the Ubuntu Logo there is only a messy screen, mostly black and white blocks, one can still here the sound of Ubuntu booting into the Desktop enviromnent, but the screen won't change.

I have an NVidia 360M, Noveau handled that before in Lucid.

Any tips?

ANdreas

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-10-03
Press any key at the initial screen, then press F6 and select nomodeset from the menu, you should be able to boot to a desktop after that.

---

### Post by mcneely.mike on 2010-10-03
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Press any key at the initial screen, then press F6 and select nomodeset from the menu, you should be able to boot to a desktop after that.

I will thank you for that (someone should :) )

Hope it is fixed before final release, or alot of new users may be thrown back to windows.

---

### Post by drdanielfc on 2010-10-11
I followed the instructions and got an ugly resolution that I installed from. Now I am getting the same black-and-white screen when trying to boot into the system. Is there any workaround for getting an installed copy to boot? How about getting my 1920x1080 resolution to work too?

I had no issues before this, and this is a very new and high end laptop so I doubt my drivers were removed...  (Nvidia GeForce GTS 250M graphics card)

Thanks ahead of time,
Dan

---

### Post by mcneely.mike on 2010-10-11
> **drdanielfc said:**
> I followed the instructions and got an ugly resolution that I installed from. Now I am getting the same black-and-white screen when trying to boot into the system. Is there any workaround for getting an installed copy to boot? How about getting my 1920x1080 resolution to work too?

I had no issues before this, and this is a very new and high end laptop so I doubt my drivers were removed...  (Nvidia GeForce GTS 250M graphics card)

Thanks ahead of time,
Dan


You have to make the   nomodeset     change permanent in GRUB after you do your reboot, or it will not persist. 

 I simply removed grub2 and grub-pc i think it was and then installed grub-legacy... then made the nomodeset change in grub. (Did this simply because i like the simplicity of grub over grub2).

---

