---
title: "9.04 - 9.10  Synaptic touchpad not working"
date: 2009-10-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Mike965 on 2009-10-23
I have a dell Inspiron 1501 dual booting Ubuntu / Win 7. After Upgrading Ubuntu my touchpad won't respond at all. I went and got "gsynaptics" and tried to find "libsynaptics0" but no luck.... not sure what else to do.... help ?

---

### Post by ikt on 2009-10-30
After updating to the latest release any luck with it working?

---

### Post by Alexthebest on 2009-10-30
same problem on Asus EeePc 1005ha-h, synaptic touchpad doesn't work after upgrading to 9.10 from 9.04... :(

---

### Post by xiaoyong on 2009-10-31
Me too.  After upgrading from 9.04 to 9.10 last night, I can't use the touchpad anymore.  My laptop is Asus eeepc 1000.  The solution has not been found.

---

### Post by Alexthebest on 2009-10-31
I tried booting from 9.10 liveusb and all works fine, so the problem is in the upgrade process... i don't want to format :(

---

### Post by morr on 2009-10-31
I've got the same problem with my synaptic touchpad on an acer aspire one. Help would be appreciated.../ Thanks

---

### Post by lkopphsd on 2009-10-31
Same problem on an HP nc6320.  Anyone have any luck fixing it?

---

### Post by djbog on 2009-10-31
Hi, I have the same issue on an Acer TravelMate 4280. The trackpad doesn't respond at all (movement, clicking etc).

I have the latest version of xserver-xorg-input-synaptics installed, and the touchpad is not disabled in the preferences. I have also tried gpointing-device-settings and this doesn't work either. I'm not really tech-savy enough to solve this on my own, so any help would be appreciated!

Thanks.

---

### Post by JTCA on 2009-10-31
Count me in too.  Same problem with touchpad...also no sound.

---

### Post by JTCA on 2009-10-31
I fixed it but not exactly sure how...here's what I think I did.
 I upgraded to 9.10 from 9.04 and just noticed that the "latest" kernel, 2.6.31-14-generic was not being used. I went into system> administration>synaptic package manager and checked grub-pc which installed Grub2 and uninstalled Grub. After I rebooted I found that the boot list now allowed me to select kernel 2.6.31 (this wasn't even a choice before). Everything seems to be cool now.
 I hope this helps someone, sorry that I don't have a better technical explanation of what happened.

---

### Post by gatorbrit on 2009-10-31
Same problem here - toshiba satellite laptop.  Touch pad not working after upgdrade although USB mouse works thankfully!

---

### Post by sparrowt on 2009-11-01
Same problem on my hp pavilion zt3000.
Upgraded and after restart touchpad not working atall.

---

### Post by winotree on 2009-11-01
Guys, I know this is really gonna bite, but mine *is* working.  I don't know enough to tell you how or why mine is different but if anyone wants to run through a game of *20 Questions* with me I'd be more than willing to help.  :|

---

### Post by Jackie999 on 2009-11-01
My SL500 thinkpad touchpad worked on 9.10 until this morning ...there must have been an upgrade ... 
In order to get my volume buttons working I do this:
```
sudo modprobe lenovo-sl-laptop
```I did that and it gave me back my touchpad. That's not going to help everyone though-only for the lenovo laptops.

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-11-01
Seems like you guys nee to go to launchpad and confirm these bugs, i.e change their status.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=karmic+touchpad&orderby=-datecreated&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package=](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=karmic+touchpad&orderby=-datecreated&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package=)

---

### Post by juje on 2009-11-01
ok, i made the upgrade to 9.10 from 9.04 and my touchpad it's not working either...i have an eee pc 1000hd. hope someone post a workarround

---

### Post by gatorbrit on 2009-11-01
This "sort of" worked for me...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298644]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298644")

See post 10.   Basically you install grub2 and it loads the right linux kernel, although I don't understand the why or what of it.  It did this, but then grub2 got messed up along the way, and I got ERROR 15 and I couldn't boot into anything.  I am currently doing a full upgrade from the CD.

---

### Post by chsub on 2009-11-01
> **JTCA said:**
> I fixed it but not exactly sure how...here's what I think I did.
 I upgraded to 9.10 from 9.04 and just noticed that the "latest" kernel, 2.6.31-14-generic was not being used. I went into system> administration>synaptic package manager and checked grub-pc which installed Grub2 and uninstalled Grub. After I rebooted I found that the boot list now allowed me to select kernel 2.6.31 (this wasn't even a choice before). Everything seems to be cool now.
 I hope this helps someone, sorry that I don't have a better technical explanation of what happened.

This fix worked for me, thanks

---

### Post by gatorbrit on 2009-11-01
I ended up doing a clean install of 9.10 and it works fine now.  I think the problem was with grub somewhere...

---

### Post by BENthesoundman on 2009-11-01
I just did the update from 9.4 to 9.10 and lost my touch pad and sound. I got the touch pad uninstalled then rebooted to find the mouse working.....Still no sound, trying to reinstall that too.

---

### Post by jefri_of_azure_sea on 2009-11-01
Have you all try to turn the touchpad off then on again?

---

### Post by greenie2009 on 2009-11-02
> **JTCA said:**
> I fixed it but not exactly sure how...here's what I think I did.
 I upgraded to 9.10 from 9.04 and just noticed that the "latest" kernel, 2.6.31-14-generic was not being used. I went into system> administration>synaptic package manager and checked grub-pc which installed Grub2 and uninstalled Grub. After I rebooted I found that the boot list now allowed me to select kernel 2.6.31 (this wasn't even a choice before). Everything seems to be cool now.
 I hope this helps someone, sorry that I don't have a better technical explanation of what happened.

My touchpad isn't responding either. I tried following this instruction, but since I'm a complete ubuntu novice I don't really understand anything... What does it mean to select kernel 2.6.31? 
In synaptic package manager it looks like I have grub-pc and grub-common installed - should I actively install grub or grub2? What is the difference between all these grubs? 

Thanks
Helene

---

### Post by Jandre78 on 2009-11-03
I have found a resolution for the problem I had on this site:

[http://danilogurovich.wordpress.com/2009/10/17/ubuntu-karmic-koala-9-10-beta-buggy-touchpad-behavior/](http://danilogurovich.wordpress.com/2009/10/17/ubuntu-karmic-koala-9-10-beta-buggy-touchpad-behavior/)

However I couldn't create the file in the manner as described. I created it in my home folder, moved it and then changed the ownership to "root". Did the reboot and its now working.

I have a Compaq presario B.T.W. 

I hope this helps some of you ;)

---

### Post by Lucas van Boeschoten on 2009-11-04
I also lost my Synaptic Touchpad when upgrading from 9.04 to 9.10. I have an Acer Travelmate 240 with a Synaptics TouchPad.
 
I tried the suggestion in Post #10. I got as far as the system>Administration>Synaptic Ppackage Manager, but I couldn't find a reference to grub-pc.  Please explain this part.
 
Thanks.

---

### Post by Lucas van Boeschoten on 2009-11-04
Success! Once I found the All category, I was OK.

---

### Post by bjornd on 2009-11-07
> **Jandre78 said:**
> I have found a resolution for the problem I had on this site:

[http://danilogurovich.wordpress.com/2009/10/17/ubuntu-karmic-koala-9-10-beta-buggy-touchpad-behavior/](http://danilogurovich.wordpress.com/2009/10/17/ubuntu-karmic-koala-9-10-beta-buggy-touchpad-behavior/)


Worked for me, on a HP tx2000. 
To create the file (and fix the problem;), simply:

sudo -i
echo "options psmouse proto=exps" > /etc/modprobe.d/psmouse.modprobe
reboot

---

### Post by ptn on 2009-11-17
Same problem here. I'm on a Toshiba Satellite U405-S2856

---

### Post by rowleydmr on 2009-12-03
> **JTCA said:**
> I fixed it but not exactly sure how...here's what I think I did.
 I upgraded to 9.10 from 9.04 and just noticed that the "latest" kernel, 2.6.31-14-generic was not being used. I went into system> administration>synaptic package manager and checked grub-pc which installed Grub2 and uninstalled Grub. After I rebooted I found that the boot list now allowed me to select kernel 2.6.31 (this wasn't even a choice before). Everything seems to be cool now.
 I hope this helps someone, sorry that I don't have a better technical explanation of what happened.

This worked for me also.  The touchpad was the only problem I have found after upgrading to 9.10 and once I had access to the 2.6.31 kernel the problem went away.  Thanks Much JTCA!:popcorn:  One note, however--Grub2 did not actually work for me and I had to go back to Grub, but after I had installed Grub-pc I was able to load with the new kernel even after I removed it and went back to grub.  This made it easy for a dope like me.

---

### Post by ranthony on 2009-12-03
If you are still having a problem with your touchpad, you can find the solution at the [link]("http://danilogurovich.wordpress.com/2009/10/17/ubuntu-karmic-koala-9-10-beta-buggy-touchpad-behavior/") above, but the real answer to the problem is in one of the replies.  

The solution suggested by JTCA will also work, but it requires installing the grub2 beta software; not desirable from a stability standpoint. 

The problem, as several people have noted, is the original release of 9.10 gave you the option to not update your grub menu.lst file, which consequently will still point to the old linux kernel on boot; disabling several functions in the system, including the touchpad.

I will paste the full solution as posted by 'bob' to the linked blog.  Thank you Bob, whoever you are.

> Dieter is correct, if you chose not to update your grub menu.lst when upgrading because you have a dual boot machine (like me), then you&#8217;re still booting the old kernal and will get a bunch of other process errors.

To fix the problem, use gedit in a command window to add the new lines to your menu list as follows:

~$ sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst

scroll to the bottom of the list you will find the lines that make up your grub boot options. make a copy of the most recent one and then change the kernal version number to 2.6.31-14. You will then have an entry that look like this, except with your own uuid ( it must be a different uuid from mine ):

title Ubuntu 9.10, kernel 2.6.31-14-generic
uuid 6a08943a-8da4-4b93-8d5b-440e954dba61
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=6a08943a-8da4-4b93-8d5 b-440e954dba61 ro vga=795 splash quiet
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
quiet

If you are reading this a little later in time, you will want to make sure the kernal version number is the right one. To do that, just open a command window and type &#8220;ls -al /boot&#8221; to display the current list of kernals. choose the biggest number (most recent). Right now that&#8217;s 2.6.31-14.

The current kernal, as of this writing is 2.6.31-15.  If you upgrade now, you will no longer be prompted to keep your grub menu.lst file.  Problem solved.

-RAnthony

---

### Post by musarraf172 on 2009-12-03
Try this on your command line:

"echo options psmouse proto=exps > /etc/modprobe.d/psmouse.modprobe"

Then restart

---

### Post by ranthony on 2009-12-03
> **musarraf172 said:**
> Try this on your command line:

"echo options psmouse proto=exps > /etc/modprobe.d/psmouse.modprobe"

Then restart

As 'bob' pointed out in his response, that doesn't fix the real problem.  You'll still be booting to the wrong kernal.  If you are sure that your are booting to the right kernal, and the synaptic pad still doesn't work, by all means try that.

-RAnthony

---

### Post by brunolopes446 on 2009-12-22
I had the same problem with my synaptic touchpad after upgrading my ubuntu from 9.04 to 9.10. This is how I solved the problem:
Open a terminal
type "sudo su"
then type you password
after that, type this: sudo echo options psmouse proto=exps > /etc/modprobe.d/psmouse.modprobe
and them, type: reboot
after rebooting your synaptic touchpad will work

---

### Post by astowe32 on 2009-12-28
> **JTCA said:**
> I fixed it but not exactly sure how...here's what I think I did.
 I upgraded to 9.10 from 9.04 and just noticed that the "latest" kernel, 2.6.31-14-generic was not being used. I went into system> administration>synaptic package manager and checked grub-pc which installed Grub2 and uninstalled Grub. After I rebooted I found that the boot list now allowed me to select kernel 2.6.31 (this wasn't even a choice before). Everything seems to be cool now.
 I hope this helps someone, sorry that I don't have a better technical explanation of what happened.

This worked for me on an HP NC6000.

  Allen...

---

### Post by gobindaghosh on 2010-03-19
What is did are the following

1. cd /boot

2. ls
there I have found after ls

abi-2.6.28-18-generic         memtest86+.bin
abi-2.6.31-20-generic         System.map-2.6.28-18-generic
config-2.6.28-18-generic      System.map-2.6.31-20-generic
config-2.6.31-20-generic      vmcoreinfo-2.6.28-18-generic
grub                          vmcoreinfo-2.6.31-20-generic
initrd.img-2.6.28-18-generic  vmlinuz-2.6.28-18-generic
initrd.img-2.6.31-20-generic  vmlinuz-2.6.31-20-generic
 
So I proceeded with the following steps

3. cd grub

4. sudo gedit menu.lst

and changed the following in bold 

title        Ubuntu **9.04**, kernel **2.6.28-18**-generic
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-**2.6.28-18**-generic root=UUID=df5c2d18-24d0-486e-b466-1c4f176de77d ro quiet splash 
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-**2.6.28-18**-generic

with these lines


title        Ubuntu **9.10**, kernel **2.6.31-20**-generic
uuid        df5c2d18-24d0-486e-b466-1c4f176de77d
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-**2.6.31-20**-generic root=UUID=df5c2d18-24d0-486e-b466-1c4f176de77d ro quiet splash 
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-**2.6.31-20**-generic

Saved, Rebooted with "**Ubuntu 9.10, kernel ****2.6.31-20-generic**" and SUCCESS!! :D

---

### Post by poppatm on 2010-05-22
JTCA's suggestion of loading GRUB2 worked for my Dell Latitude D830.  Now my wireless doesn't work but comes up automatically on my cellular broadband connection.

---

