---
title: "11.10 needs XP disk to boot! A short list...."
date: 2011-10-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by barauc on 2011-10-17
Learning a good lesson here. Linux newbie wait for bug fixes before upgrading!

1. Since day one that I installed 11.04, when booting the screen will stuck at "boot from cd". Install and uninstall a few times but nothing works. Decided to re-install Win Xp, insert the disk boot computer and it goes to grub menu and Linux loads, no problem. Remove XP disk and get stuck at "boot from cd" again! Still the same after upgrade. So now the windows XP disk lives in my dvd drive!

2. After upgrade Ubuntu boots to black screen with the following messages:
drm: drm_crtc_helper_set_-config *ERROR* failed to set node crtc:6

end_request:i/o error, devsr1, sector 4096 buffer I/O error on device sr1, logical block 1024 + 1025

*starting apparmor profiles
skipping profiles /etc/apparmor .d/disable:user.binfirefox [ok]

speech-dispatcher disabled: edit /etc/default/speech-dispatcher [ok]

*starting bluetooth
*pulseaudio configured for pre-user sessions

saned disabled: edit/etc/default/saned

*checking battery state....

Now there is a flashing cursor but the screen is dead and nothing happens. No key board, no mouse. Only why out is restart.

The only way I can boot is from recovery mode and clicking "resume normal boot". Ubuntu loads with no problem and everything works just fine.

3. Until I installed PYSDM to mount my 2nd drive. Now when I boot from recovery I get this message: an error occured while mounting /media/new. Press S to skip mounting or M for manual recovery.

Press S and Ubuntu boots and the drive in question is mounted!

Sorry for the long post and thank you in advance for any help. I so dearly want to kick some windows butt!

Thanks

---

### Post by ezramorris on 2011-10-17
> **barauc said:**
> 1. Since day one that I installed 11.04, when booting the screen will stuck at "boot from cd". Install and uninstall a few times but nothing works. Decided to re-install Win Xp, insert the disk boot computer and it goes to grub menu and Linux loads, no problem. Remove XP disk and get stuck at "boot from cd" again! Still the same after upgrade. So now the windows XP disk lives in my dvd drive!

Try changing the boot order in your BIOS settings so that the hard disk boots before the disk drive.

> **barauc said:**
> 3. Until I installed PYSDM to mount my 2nd drive. Now when I boot from recovery I get this message: an error occured while mounting /media/new. Press S to skip mounting or M for manual recovery.

Press S and Ubuntu boots and the drive in question is mounted!

I believe this is now resolved in [the other thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11357338&postcount=15").

Ezra.

---

