---
title: "9.04 to 10.04 upgrade vs clean install"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Archie69 on 2010-05-09
Hey, so my question is simple and I'll just come out with it. Is it "better" to just upgrade ubunti via update manager or do a clean install off a cd?

I have an Acer Aspire 5920 with an Nvida video card that sometimes gave me problems (in 8.04 but not so much again).

What do you guys think. Upgrade or new install?

Thanks

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-05-09
I would image the drive with Clonezilla, after that... who cares ? :)

I prefer an clean install, partly because the upgrade is almost as big (in megabytes downloaded) as downloading the whole iso, so may as well have the iso for other installs and partly because I simply prefer an absolutely clean install.

Either way, ensure that you have a back up of anything you wouldn't want to lose.

---

### Post by eltonw on 2010-05-09
> **Archie69 said:**
> Hey, so my question is simple and I'll just come out with it. Is it "better" to just upgrade ubunti via update manager or do a clean install off a cd?

I have an Acer Aspire 5920 with an Nvida video card that sometimes gave me problems (in 8.04 but not so much again).

What do you guys think. Upgrade or new install?

Thanks

If you do an upgrade, you'll have to 'sit and nurse it' since there are newer packeges, and some other (older) packages are deprecated, so [FONT="Century Gothic"][COLOR="Sienna"]the upgrade will be very slow since the whole process is interactive.[/COLOR][/FONT] As opposed to a clean install: if manual, you define your partitions, and swap size, then you can more or less step away from the machine while the installation proceeds.

**[FONT="Arial Black"]First[/FONT]**, do a [COLOR="DarkOliveGreen"]**search in the forums for 'NVIDIA**[/COLOR]' to be forewarned of any problems with the card, or if there may be need to install a driver.

FWIW: here is how I installed on my machine (netbook, different hardware from yours, but it might be of help:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9203922#post9203922]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9203922#post9203922") [#136]

HTH...

---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2010-05-09
Howefield is right.  Backup any data that you need, either with clonezilla or to CD.

Then update / upgrade becomes your choice.  An update through update-manager may take a little longer because it has to download everything and then do the install, but I have never had any problems with this myself.  But through download, you are in effect downloading each individual file that would make up the ISO of the actual release.

If space is in question, the best bet is to download the ISO, burn that to CD and do a clean install.

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-05-09
You cannot upgrade directly from 9.04 to 10.04.  You have to upgrade from 9.04 to 9.10 to 10.04.  Otherwise you risk having a system unusable.   So a clean install will be easier.  As others have said **back up **your **data **before upgrading or doing a clean install.

---

### Post by cap10Ibraim on 2010-05-09
I would go with a clean install 
search the forums many 10.04 issues with upgraded systems

---

### Post by UnknownFear on 2010-05-09
I would definitely recommend a fresh, clean install vs. an upgrade. As many users have stated, you will be bombarded with updates and other stuff, as well as risk bugs. Always remember: Do a COMPLETE backup of your files before doing a fresh install.

---

### Post by Archie69 on 2010-05-09
Thanks everyone. Looks like a clean install via disc is the way to go. I appreciate it.

---

### Post by stevedes on 2010-05-09
clean install is better, upgrading has the potential to cause alot of errors in some computers.

---

### Post by Phrea on 2010-05-09
Clean install is indeed the way to go.
I did a clean install including my /home partition.

---

### Post by Mitchell Hale on 2010-05-09
I would recomend installing with a seperate home partition. That way you can do a clean install every time, and keep your data. You'll need to re-install programs though. (still back it up though, which I assume you're doing even when you're not updating. Right?)

---

