---
title: "on 10.04 i could view the screens i had open at the bottom,"
date: 2012-08-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ilovethislinuxstuff on 2012-08-27
but on 12.04, i'm finding it hard to find a window that i have under another window. how can i put my windows at the bottom so i can quickly move between open windows?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-08-27
V12.04 uses Unity -- and that desktop doesn't provide the features you had back in 10.04.

---

### Post by ilovethislinuxstuff on 2012-08-27
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> V12.04 uses Unity -- and that desktop doesn't provide the features you had back in 10.04.

i understand. what's the best way to move between windows in this new ubuntu 12.04?

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-08-27
Hold down ALT and press TAB.

---

### Post by terry_gardener on 2012-08-27
a unity guide can be found here

[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2011/04/21/the-power-user%E2%80%99s-guide-to-unity/]("http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2011/04/21/the-power-user%E2%80%99s-guide-to-unity/")

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-08-27
Hi!,** ilovethislinuxstuf**f,

In 12.04 Unity, open windows are indicated by little arrow heads at the side of the Launcher Icon that owns them.. If they are minimized, clicks on the launcher will normalize the Windows and you can click on the one you want to have Focus.

Log-in to Gnome Classic ( no effects ) and you will get the bottom Panel you refer to, but no Launcher Sidebar unless you run Ubuntu-2d-shell [formally '2d-launcher'] each time you log-in.

Alternatively, 'Alt+Tab' will show a Window Switcher with thumbnails of the windows and [COLOR=Red]you Click on the one you want.[/COLOR] [ Although I have seen reports that it does not work in 12.04.1, on my two installations, one newly installed 12.04.1, it still works correctly.]

Edit: I just tried it again, and the above is wrong!

You navigate through the Thumbnails with the Arrow keys, and[COLOR=Blue] Release 'Alt', or Press 'Enter' to select the highlighted one.[/COLOR] 
Chao!, **bogan**.

---

### Post by ilovethislinuxstuff on 2012-08-27
> **terry_gardener said:**
> a unity guide can be found here

[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2011/04/21/the-power-user%E2%80%99s-guide-to-unity/](http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2011/04/21/the-power-user%E2%80%99s-guide-to-unity/)

thanks for the link. that helps me phrase my question a bit more specifically.

If i open multiple firefox browser windows by right clicking on the firefox icon and clicking open new window, how do i navigate between the various windows quickly using my mouse and left click button?

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2012-08-27
> **ilovethislinuxstuff said:**
>  If i open multiple firefox browser windows by right clicking on the firefox icon and clicking open new window, how do i navigate between the various windows quickly using my mouse and left click button?

Just left click the Firefox icon in the Unity bar.
All the open windows will appear on the screen, then just click on the one you want.

---

### Post by ilovethislinuxstuff on 2012-08-27
> **cottfcfan said:**
> Just left click the Firefox icon in the Unity bar.
All the open windows will appear on the screen, then just click on the one you want.

yeah, that's the way i've been doing it. but it's an extra step compared to before. before i just moved my cursor down to the bottom of the screen and clicked the window that i wanted to open back up...

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-08-27
you may prefer the [xubuntu-desktop](apt:xubuntu-desktop) some of the themes are broken but you can get updates on github from the dev (like albatross)
you may find some of the window management feature in compiz useful, like scale or tile
you can configure them with [ccsm](apt:compizconfig-settings-manager)

---

### Post by ilovethislinuxstuff on 2012-08-27
ok, i'll take a look at compiz. is there a really simple way to move from screen to screen without that extra step? something i can change in some settings menu or something?

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-08-28
compiz exp->expo edge in ccsm

---

### Post by acimi66 on 2012-08-28
Are you talking about the workspace switcher?

---

### Post by holycow131415 on 2012-08-28
you may like to go to xubuntu, which uses xfce as the DE. or just install xfce desktop from repos.

---

### Post by black veils on 2012-08-28
perhaps you could try to alter settings using Ubuntu Tweak [http://ubuntu-tweak.com/]("http://ubuntu-tweak.com/")

---

### Post by blackbird34 on 2012-08-28
To switch between windows belonging to the same application you can use ALT and the key that is above the TAB key (ALT+Twosuperior).
For more such keyboard shortcuts press and hold down your "Super" (or "Windows") key and a whole list of them will pop up.

---

### Post by ilovethislinuxstuff on 2012-08-30
"Log-in to Gnome Classic ( no effects ) and you will get the bottom Panel  you refer to, but no Launcher Sidebar unless you run Ubuntu-2d-shell  [formally '2d-launcher'] each time you log-in."

this is interesting. how would i do this?

---

### Post by ilovethislinuxstuff on 2012-08-30
> **holycow131415 said:**
> you may like to go to xubuntu, which uses xfce as the DE. or just install xfce desktop from repos.

this is interesting. but it looks like gnome fallback, except lighter and faster, right?
i probably would just go with gnome fallback, but i'm trying to use the new desktop environment for a few reason including automatic updates from canonical. i don't know much about any of this computer stuff, so i'm trying to keep it simple:p

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-08-30
> **ilovethislinuxstuff said:**
> "Log-in to Gnome Classic ( no effects ) and you will get the bottom Panel  you refer to, but no Launcher Sidebar unless you run Ubuntu-2d-shell  [formally '2d-launcher'] each time you log-in."

this is interesting. how would i do this?As it seems you already have the gnome-fallback-session installed, when you get to the log-in screen, top-right in the greeter box is an icon - either a gear wheel, an Ubuntu or a Gnome logo.

Click on that and you get a drop-down menu with all the available Desktop sessions, including 'ubuntu', which is 3d unity, 'Gnome' [ Shell & Classic ] & 'Gnome Classic (no effects )'. Select the one you want and activate your Password.

The Icon will change, according to which you choose, and the selection will stay as default when you reboot, until you change it.

If you are in doubt, in a Terminal or Cli, entering: ```
echo $DESKTOP_SESSION
```Will tell you.

Chao![B], bogan.
[/B]

---

