---
title: "[9.04] Anyone has problem with video playback? It pauses sometimes.."
date: 2009-06-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by legolas_w on 2009-06-07
Hi
Thank you for reading my post.
Before installing ubuntu 9.04 I had absolutely no problem with video playback. 
Now I have some un-normal problems with 9.04. It pauses from time to time without any reason. I check the cpu usage and it is bellow 50% when the player pauses and stop responding.

Although it resume the playback after the pause but it happens again and again...

Please let me know if you know a solution for this.

Thanks.

---

### Post by daniero on 2009-06-30
I have the same problem, if I could say that. When I open any application, for example FireFox, it starts to make brief pauses where either the mouse or keyboard doesn't respond, and after the program is open, if I start to browse for a page, or open a flash video, it starts all over again.

Any help is greatly appreciated, I installed ubuntu 9.04 on my acer extensa 5420-5687, as secondary O.S.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-06-30
Please post your full system specs, including graphics card.

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-06-30
Also are you using a proprietary graphics driver?

does the problem happen with all video players?

---

### Post by daniero on 2009-07-09
> **QIII said:**
> Please post your full system specs, including graphics card.

Processor: Turion 64 X2 (TL-60) 1.9 GHz
Graphics: ATI Mobility Radeon X1250
Ram: 2 GB

I tried both the open source and the propietary drivers for the display that are listed in the "hardware drivers" section.

I also tried some AVI video files and during the entire time the video was playing, there was these annoying brief pauses.

I downgraded to ubuntu 8.04.2 x86, if you can say that, and it works as I think 9.04 should, no pauses or whatsoever. I was wondering if there is a chance 9.04 will work like this previous version is working.

I tried several 9.04 versions (kubuntu 64 bit, ubuntu 64 bit) and I had the same behavior with all of them, but in the 64 bit versions I only had the propietary drivers option for graphics.

Should I just stay with 8.04.2 or do you guys think there's a chance I can use 9.04?

Thanks for your fast reply, I'll be checking more often for your reply.

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-07-09
Have you tried 8.10?

---

### Post by daniero on 2009-07-10
No I haven't tried 8.10. I'll give it a try, and I'll let you know...

---

### Post by kidux on 2009-07-10
> **legolas_w said:**
> Hi
Thank you for reading my post.
Before installing ubuntu 9.04 I had absolutely no problem with video playback. 
Now I have some un-normal problems with 9.04. It pauses from time to time without any reason. I check the cpu usage and it is bellow 50% when the player pauses and stop responding.

Although it resume the playback after the pause but it happens again and again...

Please let me know if you know a solution for this.

Thanks.
I noticed the same thing with my laptop. I thought it was because I was watching the video off my server, but the PS3 doesn't have a problem with them, so it's gotta be something in 9.04.

---

### Post by daniero on 2009-07-11
Ok, so I tried 8.10, and it behaves just like 9.04.

Any thoughts or leads?

Thanks for your time and effort

---

### Post by daniero on 2009-07-31
Bump...

I was wondering if anyone has an idea what changed between 8.04 and 8.10 that makes some people have some weird pauses during intensive use of CPU, most notably when watching videos...

Thanks in advanced

---

