---
title: "9.1 same problem as 9.04"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mlchapman on 2009-11-01
I just attempted to install 9.1 on my dell xps. The hardrive is brand new, clean with no operating system. That is why I want to use ubuntu now. 

The cd gets me to the "install screen" I guess you call it, but nothing works. Each choice of menu item results in a frozen system that only ctrt, alt, delelt responds to. 

I've tried every choice including all of the F1-F6 keys. Nothing works. This is true for 9.04 and 9.1.

I would really like to try Ubuntu. Please, what now?


Problem SOLVED: I tried every suggestion made on this forum. Nothing worked so I bought a LiveCD from Connical and it worked. Evidently, my Active@ISO Burner didn't work on any burn that I tried.
Thanks everybody for your patients. I'll sure that I will need more.

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-11-01
if you can't even select and run "check disk for errors" while booted from the LiveCD then we would suspect a bad iso and/or a bad burn and/or defective optical media(we only use CD-R disks)

checksum your iso

slow-burn another disk

boot up the newly burnt disk and run "check disk for errors"


alternately:

boot up your 9.04 and 9.10 disks in another computer and "check disk for errors" there

that should tell you whether the disks are good or not

if you continue to have problems you might try the alternate install edition

.

---

### Post by faical117 on 2009-11-01
test  your CD if is not damaged ?

---

### Post by mlchapman on 2009-11-04
Ok, thank you people. Each suggestion to test cd and check disk has been done. Unfortunately, nothing helped. All media tests "good". The ISO burn was verified.

A BestBuy geek suggested that I try Mint. I have no idea what that is, but I'll google it and find out.

I did try SLAX, but with the same result as Ubuntu. How about Fedora? Any reason that might be useful? 

I'm just reaching now. Any suggestions are welcome.

---

### Post by Dougie187 on 2009-11-04
> **mlchapman said:**
> Ok, thank you people. Each suggestion to test cd and check disk has been done. Unfortunately, nothing helped. All media tests "good". The ISO burn was verified.

A BestBuy geek suggested that I try Mint. I have no idea what that is, but I'll google it and find out.

I did try SLAX, but with the same result as Ubuntu. How about Fedora? Any reason that might be useful? 

I'm just reaching now. Any suggestions are welcome.

Do you get the same thing with 8.04? I had this issue with the RC and the beta when it came out, but it was only in a VM so I don't know if it was just because of a lack of ram or something.

---

### Post by dBuster on 2009-11-04
Is it possible that there is something with the graphics chipset in that machine that it appears to be locked at one point?  Does the hard drive stop all activity when it locks up?

So you have tried all options on the cd grub menu when it boots?  have you been able to run the cd in live mode?  

Also, there is an alternate install cd that you can download.  I had to use that on my Compaq laptop as I had issues with my regular iso download.  Once I ran the alternate I was up and running.  Of course after getting different video drivers of course since I have nvidia in that machine...

Also, MINT is nothing more than another flavor of Linux.

---

### Post by Dougie187 on 2009-11-04
> **dBuster said:**
> Does the hard drive stop all activity when it locks up?

This is irrelevant since he is running from the CD.

> **dBuster said:**
> 
Also, there is an alternate install cd that you can download.

This is a good thing to try. Especially if you are lacking in the ram dept. I don't know if you are or not, and would not expect that you would be since you have an XPS, but still maybe you went the cheap end and don't have much. Either way, you could try installing from the alternate CD, that was how I had to get my VM to install.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2009-11-04
> **mlchapman said:**
> I just attempted to install 9.1 on my dell xps. The hardrive is brand new, clean with no operating system.

You just installed a new hard drive, and now your computer doesn't work.  (My words, not yours.)  I would go back and check the hard drive installation.

Do you have an old DOS diskette with Fdisk on it?  Can it see the hard drive?  Does the BIOS see the hard drive OK?

---

### Post by sldavid on 2009-11-04
In the spirit of the previous post I would check the new hard drive a little further. Most hard drive manufacturers have a family of free diagnostic software utilities that will analyze the drive well. Here's an example from Hitachi website:

[http://www.hitachigst.com/hdd/support/download.htm](http://www.hitachigst.com/hdd/support/download.htm)

Under the heading 'Analyze, Monitor and Restore Your Drive' choose 'drive fitness test'. From the drive fitness test page choose 'CD Image'. This will create a self booting CD that will check the hard drive.

Naturally, you're going to need to determine the make/model of your hard drive and go to the corresponding website.

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-11-04
> **gordintoronto said:**
> You just installed a new hard drive, and now your computer doesn't work.  (My words, not yours.)  I would go back and check the hard drive installation.

Do you have an old DOS diskette with Fdisk on it?  Can it see the hard drive?  Does the BIOS see the hard drive OK?


> **sldavid said:**
> In the spirit of the previous post I would check the new hard drive a little further. Most hard drive manufacturers have a family of free diagnostic software utilities that will analyze the drive well. Here's an example from Hitachi website:

[http://www.hitachigst.com/hdd/support/download.htm](http://www.hitachigst.com/hdd/support/download.htm)

Under the heading 'Analyze, Monitor and Restore Your Drive' choose 'drive fitness test'. From the drive fitness test page choose 'CD Image'. This will create a self booting CD that will check the hard drive.

Naturally, you're going to need to determine the make/model of your hard drive and go to the corresponding website.

here at the tech bench we would just disconnect the hard drive and attempt to run the equipment via the LiveCD function

keep us posted on your progress and/or your solution(s)

.

---

### Post by Dougie187 on 2009-11-04
I don't understand why people are suggesting the hard drive as the issue. I mean, this is a live cd that is run from ram. The hard drive has absolutely nothing to do with this. He can't even get to the language selection screen in the install process on the graphical installer.

I mean, if he could finish the installation, and got weird hard drive issues I could see suggesting that, but as far as I can tell, the hard drive has nothing to do with the issue.

---

### Post by dBuster on 2009-11-04
> **Dougie187 said:**
> This is irrelevant since he is running from the CD.


It is relevant if he is trying to install.  Generally one would install to a hard drive.

Plus, if you read the first post, the original poster states:

> The cd gets me to the "install screen" I guess you call it, but nothing works. Each choice of menu item results in a frozen system that only ctrt, alt, delelt responds to. 


So it gets to the menu past the language selection from what it reads like to me.  Sorry but asking about the hard drive is key.

I although would lean towards that alternate cd install.  It worked wonders for me and thus may as well for the original issue.

But your post brings me to another thought.  Bad RAM?  It does load to RAM before installing and if it hangs on the ram.. hmmm or even is the motherboard overclocked?  That might be causing an issue also.  That is if it is a desktop.  I do not remember the original post what machine it is.

---

### Post by Dougie187 on 2009-11-05
> **dBuster said:**
> It is relevant if he is trying to install.  Generally one would install to a hard drive.

Plus, if you read the first post, the original poster states:



So it gets to the menu past the language selection from what it reads like to me.  Sorry but asking about the hard drive is key.

I although would lean towards that alternate cd install.  It worked wonders for me and thus may as well for the original issue.

But your post brings me to another thought.  Bad RAM?  It does load to RAM before installing and if it hangs on the ram.. hmmm or even is the motherboard overclocked?  That might be causing an issue also.  That is if it is a desktop.  I do not remember the original post what machine it is.

Well, from what I understand based on their first post, he doesn't know what the screen he is seeing is called. He calls it the "install screen" but this could easily be the first screen you see after you select "Install Ubuntu" from the boot menu. Also, The buttons not working shouldn't have anything to do with his hard drive. And I would expect that if the hard drive was having any issues, he would see these on the partition setup screen when he is trying to make actual changes to the disk.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-11-05
Have you tried installing Ubuntu using the Alternate CD? It often works when the live CD doesn't.

The alternate CD installer is very old-school - all text based. Considering that you're not going to be doing any partitioning, you should still probably find it easy enough to use.

Technical note: The live CD tries to recognise and work with all hardware as soon as it can. The Alternate CD just starts a minimal system and does almost no hardware detection. If hardware detection is causing the problem with the live CD, then the alternate CD will work.

---

### Post by Themotorman on 2009-11-21
> **Dougie187 said:**
> Well, from what I understand based on their first post, he doesn't know what the screen he is seeing is called. He calls it the "install screen" but this could easily be the first screen you see after you select "Install Ubuntu" from the boot menu. Also, The buttons not working shouldn't have anything to do with his hard drive. And I would expect that if the hard drive was having any issues, he would see these on the partition setup screen when he is trying to make actual changes to the disk.

The problem is that the RAM is too small. Looks like you need at least 350MB of RAM for 9.1. I have only 192 MB and cannot run the CD direct 9.1 nor can I install it  in my ZE5700. Have to get some more RAM I guess!

---

