---
title: "10.04 installed and working... then.... this"
date: 2010-07-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tzenda on 2010-07-14
GNU GRUB version 1.98-1ubuntu6

Mininmal BASH-like line editing is supported. For the first work, TAB lists possible command completions. Anywhere else TAB lists possible device or file completions.

grub>


_____________________________________

i had ubuntu all installed and mostly working, just had a few wifi problems. i just installed wine and got that working for what i wanted and now this.... i am getting really tired of all the problems i am getting in ubuntu and am thinking i might have to stick with windows for another few years.  If there is an easy fix for this i will do it but if i have to reinstall i'm done with ubuntu.

---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-07-14
With patience comes solutions my friend. Do not abandon Ubuntu so quickly, believe me; we've all had problems just as bad if not worse than you.

Anyway, have you tried booting Ubuntu from a LiveCD? Try that [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCD") and report back ASAP.

Good luck.


aust77

---

### Post by ubunterooster on 2010-07-14
<snip> Lets try to simplify that... Type these in     ```
find /grub/stage2
find /boot/grub/stage2
```
One should work, and return something like "(hd0,0)" or "(hd0,1)"  ...
Use whatever is return in the following command - note the space before  the bracket in each of the first 2 commands.    ```
root (hd0,0) [COLOR=red]<<<=== inset returned value here[/COLOR]
setup (hd0)
boot
```

---

### Post by tzenda on 2010-07-14
alright i got booted into the live cd and tried to mount the drive using the graphical way, that didnt work, it wouldnt mount.  so i browsed to /boot/grub  foulder hoping to find the stage2 file but when i got there it froze and wouldnt desplay anything.  like it has a corupted file in there. but now when i reboot without the recovery disk in it says.....



error: hd0, 1 read error.
grub rescue>



oh yea when i typed the find /boot/grub..... etc it siad find command not found.

---

### Post by ubunterooster on 2010-07-14
did you try the below?> 
**Reinstalling from LiveCD**

 If you cannot boot from GRUB 2  review the section *Boot Problems and Rescue Mode*. If a  reinstall becomes necessary follow these instructions. Two methods are  presented; both require booting from a LiveCD (Ubuntu 9.10, Karmic Koala  or later version). If the first method does not work, follow the second  method, which is more complex and contains more options and  instructions. 
 
**SIMPLEST -  Copy GRUB 2 Files from the LiveCD**

 This is a quick and simple  method of restoring a broken system's GRUB 2 files. The terminal is used  for entering commands and the user must know the device name/partition  of the installed system (sda1, sdb5, etc). The problem partition is  located and mounted from the LiveCD. The files are then copied from the  LiveCD libraries to the proper locations and MBR. It requires the least  steps and fewer command line entries than the following methods. 

[LIST=1]
[*]Boot to the LiveCD Desktop (Ubuntu 9.10 or later). 
[*]Open a  terminal by selecting *Applications, Accessories, Terminal* from  the menu bar. 
[*]Determine the partition with the Ubuntu installation.  The *fdisk* option "-l" is a lowercase "L". 

[LIST=1]
[*]sudo fdisk -lIf the user isn't sure of the  partition, look for one of the appropriate size or formatting. Running sudo blkid may provide more information to help  locate the proper partition, especially if the partitions are labeled. The device/drive is designated by *sdX*,  with *X* being the device designation. *sda* is the first  device, *sdb* is the second, etc. For most users the MBR will be  installed to *sda*, the first drive on their system. The  partition is designated by the *Y*. The first partition is 1, the  second is 2. Note the devices and partitions are counted differently. 
[/LIST]
[*]Mount the partition containing the Ubuntu installation. sudo mount /dev/sdXY /mntExample: *sudo  mount /dev/sd**a1*** Note: If the user has a separate /boot partition,  this must be mounted to */mnt/boot* 
[*]Run the grub-install command as described below. This will  reinstall the GRUB 2 files on the mounted partition to the proper  location and to the MBR of the designated device. 
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt/ /dev/sdXExample:  *sudo  grub-install --root-directory=/mnt/ /dev/sd**a*** 
[*]Reboot 
[*]Refresh the GRUB 2 menu with sudo update-grub  
[*]If the  user wishes to explore why the system failed, refer to *[Post-Restoration  Commands]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Post-Restoration%20Commands")* section below. 
[/LIST]
 
**METHOD  2 - Copy GRUB 2 Files from the Installed Partition**

 This is a quick and simple  method of restoring a broken system's GRUB 2 files. The problem  partition is located and mounted from the LiveCD. The files are then  copied from the broken system's */boot/grub* directory to the  proper locatations and MBR. It requires fewer steps and fewer command  line entries than the following *CHROOT* method. For users with  separate system partitions, such as a separate /boot partition, or other  special circumstances, using the *CHROOT* method may provide  better results. 

[LIST=1]
[*]Boot to the  LiveCD Desktop (Ubuntu 9.10 or later). 
[*]Mount the partition with your Ubuntu  installation. 
[LIST=1]
[*]From the *Places* menu, select and click the  partition containing your Ubuntu installation to mount it. 

[LIST]
[*][IMG]https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=grub2.places.devices.png[/IMG] 
[*]If  the partition isn't recognized, look for one of the appropriate size or  label. 
[*]Once mounted, the user should see Ubuntu system  directories such as */boot* 
[/LIST]
[/LIST]
[*]Open a terminal by selecting *Applications,  Accessories, Terminal* from the menu bar. 
[*]Run the grub-setup -d command as described below. This  will reinstall the GRUB 2 files on the mounted partition to the proper  location and to the MBR of the designated device. 

[LIST=1]
[*]Determine  the mount point by referring to the location box in *Places*.  Replace *XXXX* in the command with the UUID, or replace */media/XXXX*  with the correct location if the partition is not mounted in */media*.  The designation may be a UUID, or a label, if the user has created one  (see note). 
[*]If  the location window is not in the format shown, click on the icon to the  left to change the presentation. 
[LIST]
[*][IMG]https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=grub2.places.location.png[/IMG] 
[/LIST]
[*]When ready to copy the UUID/location,  by highlight it  with the mouse. Paste it into the terminal by pressing the middle mouse  button. If using the keyboard, use *CTRL-SHIFT* to copy the  location and ***CTRL-SHIFT-V*** to paste it into the  terminal. 
[*]The device/drive is designated by *sdX*, with *X*  being the device  designation. *sda* is the first device, *sdb*  is the second, etc. For most users the MBR should be installed to *sda*,  the first drive on their system. 
sudo grub-setup -d /media/XXXX/boot/grub /dev/sdaExample: *sudo grub-setup -d /**media/7848138a-41a0-4eba-8aed-d1b625ac8759**/boot/grub  /dev/sd**a*** 
[*]If the user gets a "***error: Cannot open  /boot/grub/device.map***" message, add the *-m* switch  and path to the device.map to the command as follows: 
sudo grub-setup -d /media/XXXXX/boot/grub -m /media/XXXXX/boot/grub/device.map /dev/sdaExample: *sudo grub-setup -d /**media/7848138a-41a0-4eba-8aed-d1b625ac8759**/boot/grub  -m /**media/7848138a-41a0-4eba-8aed-d1b625ac8759**/boot/grub/device.map  /dev/sd**a*** 
[*]Other switches are available for use with the grub-setup command. In a terminal, type grub-setup --help for a list of available options.  
[*]You may  find you get a repeated "***error: Cannot open  /boot/grub/device.map***" message. If this happens try  rebooting. The UUID method may actually work but throws an error message  falsely. Using the label name does not seem to evoke the same repeated  error message. 
[/LIST]
[*]Reboot  
[*]Refresh  the GRUB 2 menu with sudo update-grub 
[*]If the user wishes to explore why the  system failed, refer to *[Post-Restoration  Commands]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Post-Restoration%20Commands")* section below. 
[IMG]https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=info.png[/IMG] Ubuntu 9.10 introduced a new application which can  easily assign labels to existing partitions. Access *Disk Utility*  from the *System, Administration* menu.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by tzenda on 2010-07-14
well now i have a new problem... it wont finish booting into the live cd, it just sits on the screen that says ubuntu and has the scrolling bar at the bottom. this just really isnt my day.

---

