---
title: "12.10 x64 ATi woes"
date: 2012-12-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by linux4life01 on 2012-12-14
hello again, I would first like to thank all who helped me get my install off the ground. thanks!
after getting installed and updated and installing steam beta. I realized I won't be doing much of anything without the prop. driver. I tried the driver in the software center and it installed however upon reboot I am dropped to a shell. running ```
sudo startx
``` it says can not find flglx module. come to think of it does the driver in the software center support the A10 apu? I searched google and found nothing. thank you once again!

---

### Post by linux4life01 on 2012-12-15
bump

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2012-12-15
I don't have a video card that is supported by any proprietary driver, but from what I read
you might want to install a 12.04 version of Ubuntu as the vendor released drivers work much better on 12.04...
[s]I believe that the vendors are not supporting the latest version of xorg-server on 12.10
There are reversions of that package and/or work arounds but the path of least resistance is to use 12.04 LTS.[/s]

Hope that you find a solution that works for you.

edit: The information I provided about xorg-server is wrong, my apologies.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-12-15
> **arpanaut said:**
> ... I believe that the vendors are not supporting the latest version of xorg-server on 12.10 

That is incorrect .. you should not spread this kind of misinformation.

AMD dropped support this summer for the HD series video cards lower than the 5x line.  These newer cards ARE supported in 12.10 as they use X-server version 1.13 -- which is what comes with Ubuntu 12.10.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-12-15
What graphics card do you have?

---

### Post by sandyd on 2012-12-15
> **Cheesemill said:**
> What graphics card do you have?

if its the 5800K, then its the AMD Radeon HD 7660D

---

### Post by linux4life01 on 2012-12-15
I have the A10-4600m so it's the 7660G the laptop is also a HP 7229-wm

---

### Post by linux4life01 on 2012-12-16
after some research with my desktop I am leaning to an X.org issue with the "additional drivers" section of the software center. although my desktop has an Nvidia GPU it shows the same symptoms as my ATI powered laptop

Desktop specs:
AMD x2 6400+
6GB DDR2 ram
320GB WD Blue
Nvidia 550Ti

boot and install went fine with the OSS driver. as soon as I set the Nvidia driver and rebooted it would load, but Unity would not appear just a blank desktop. same as Laptop with 12.10 and 12.11 beta catalyst driver.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2012-12-16
> **linux4life01 said:**
> after some research with my desktop I am leaning to an X.org issue with the "additional drivers" section of the software center. although my desktop has an Nvidia GPU it shows the same symptoms as my ATI powered laptop

Desktop specs:
AMD x2 6400+
6GB DDR2 ram
320GB WD Blue
Nvidia 550Ti

boot and install went fine with the OSS driver. as soon as I set the Nvidia driver and rebooted it would load, but Unity would not appear just a blank desktop. same as Laptop with 12.10 and 12.11 beta catalyst driver.
ah, that bug

you installed the headers?

Whats the output of
```

uname -a
```
you need to install
```

linux-headers-generic
```
and the corresponding one for your kernel. i.e. linux-headers-*kernelversionhere*

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-12-16
[s]AFAIK the headers issue is for Nvidia drivers, but I might be wrong. (I didn't encounter any issues installing the ATI drivers from the Software Centre).[/s] **Seems I may be wrong on this... try the above first!!**

What can be done for now is to reboot, and when the system boots hold the right shift in (or is it the left... grrrr memory!) and add -nomodeset to the list of command switched to the kernel to at least get the system up and running.  Then we can see about installing the drivers again or getting the ones from AMD directly.


404

---

### Post by linux4life01 on 2012-12-16
Ah the headers. (Doh) I will do that on my Nvidia box and report back (I thought apt would pull that down since its a dependency for building the module) as for the ATI I have installed headers and build-essentials and pulled catalyst beta 12.11 (can't post link on my phone) and it gives the same issue as the nvidia no unity or desktop. 

As a side note I used the .run from amd to build .deb packages.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2012-12-16
> **linux4life01 said:**
> Ah the headers. (Doh) I will do that on my Nvidia box and report back (I thought apt would pull that down since its a dependency for building the module) as for the ATI I have installed headers and build-essentials and pulled catalyst beta 12.11 (can't post link on my phone) and it gives the same issue as the nvidia no unity or desktop. 

As a side note I used the .run from amd to build .deb packages.
hmm.

Have you been using the .runs from amd from the start?

If you haven't, and tried the hardware drivers utility initially, they may be mixed right now.
If you are installing via fglrx-updates though,
Make sure these are installed as well
```

sudo apt-get install dkms module-assistant
```

---

### Post by linux4life01 on 2012-12-17
First the good news. With the headers and the x-swat PPA I  was able to get drivers for my nvidia box running. Secondly with the ATI laptop I have tried the additional drivers section of software center. Purged them. X-swat and edgers. And purged them.  And Finnally the .run from AMD. Maybe a total reinstall might be in order (its possible I missed a file) when I do reinstall what is the best practice for installing the driver?

---

