---
title: "disabling touchpad clicking"
date: 2008-08-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by WinterMadness on 2008-08-15
I looked at a very tutorials, but the xorg.conf was different than mine was so I didnt want to follow it without consulting someone.

anyway, if theres an easier way to do this then let me know. but right now i have gsynaptics and i have to change the xorg file first

just tell me what i need to change. 

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by daimaru on 2008-08-15
before changing your xorg.conf file try going to
System->Preferences->Mouse choose the thouchpad tab and uncheck the click option.

---

### Post by stchman on 2008-08-15
> **daimaru said:**
> before changing your xorg.conf file try going to
System->Preferences->Mouse choose the thouchpad tab and uncheck the click option.

A much simpler approach than editing your xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-08-15
**[COLOR="Red"]!! How I do this in Gnome !![/COLOR]**

If you want to be able to tailor your touchpad to your tastes, including turning it off and on.

```

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"
Driver "synaptics"
Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Protocol" "auto-dev"
Option "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
Option "SHMConfig" "true" #[COLOR="Red"]add this line[/COLOR]
EndSection

```

then 
```

sudo apg-get install gsynaptics

```

Now you should have a new Touchpad item in your System-Preferences menu.

Enjoy.

---

### Post by WinterMadness on 2008-08-15
> **daimaru said:**
> before changing your xorg.conf file try going to
System->Preferences->Mouse choose the thouchpad tab and uncheck the click option.


i dont know if im blind but i cant find that, are you sure youre not talking about gnome?

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-08-15
Ack Wintermadness, I just realized your using KDE, I don't know if my directions would be of any use to you or not.

I don't see a K specific touchpad configurator in my synaptic package manager, and I don't know my way around the K menu's. 

If there is a configurator already in K and you can't find it, perhaps someone knows the name of it and you could run it from Alt-F2 run dialog or from a terminal.

GL

---

### Post by WinterMadness on 2008-08-15
> **starcannon said:**
> If you want to be able to tailor your touchpad to your tastes, including turning it off and on.

```

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"
Driver "synaptics"
Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Protocol" "auto-dev"
Option "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
Option "SHMConfig" "true" #[COLOR="Red"]add this line[/COLOR]
EndSection

```

then 
```

sudo apg-get install gsynaptics

```

Now you should have a new Touchpad item in your System-Preferences menu.

Enjoy.

the only thing i see in system is printing (with a p, that is) if i goto system settings i can goto keyboard and mouse but i dont see anything about touchpad

---

### Post by daimaru on 2008-08-15
> **WinterMadness said:**
> i dont know if im blind but i cant find that, are you sure youre not talking about gnome?
sorry wintermadness didn't realize you were using kde. yes the instructions were for gnome. sorry don't have kde installed so I can't check for myself where to find that option, but I would assume that there should be an options like that in kde too. 

some kde users will probably be able to tell you were it is.

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-08-15
You can just run gsynaptics from command line:

```
gsynaptics
```

make changes, and exit.

---

### Post by macvr on 2008-08-16
> **WinterMadness said:**
> the only thing i see in system is printing (with a p, that is) if i goto system settings i can goto keyboard and mouse but i dont see anything about touchpad
since u are using Kubuntu[KDE]> u need _ksynaptics_

[COLOR="DarkRed"]follow this guide [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad#ksynaptics]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad#ksynaptics")[/COLOR]

once u install this, the option to disable the clicking should be there in the KDE control centre...

---

