---
title: "breaking dd job into 10 parts?"
date: 2009-01-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by minsf on 2009-01-30
_goal:_ i want to wipe out a 500GB external HD so i can sell it.
**WARNING:** newbies should not try commands here, as they can erase hard drives.
_method:_ i want to use "dd" from /dev/random (or should i use /dev/urandom? what is the difference?) to /dev/sdb (this is where my external HD) with bs=8M and with conv=notrunc and maybe force writing down physically before exit with conv=fsync
_**problem:**_ usb transfer rate is 1MB/s. This means 5 days... during which i will probably have to restart a few times.
_**my question:**_ how to break down the dd command into, say, 10 smaller dd parts? (so that if the 5th part fails due to power shutdown, i will not have to start again from the beginning)
feel free to either improve one of my two ideas below, or suggest a better solution.
_idea 1:_ partition the drive into 10 ext3 partitions, so that the 5th part of the dd job will be something like "dd if=/dev/random of=/dev/sdb5 bs=8M conv=notrunc conv=fsync"
_idea 2:_ tell dd to skip a few blocks in the beginning of each task. is the following sequence of commands the right way to do it?
1st time: no skip
2nd time: "(dd bs=50G seek=1 count=0 && dd bs=8M count=6400 conv=notrunc conf=fsync) </dev/random >/dev/sdb"
3rd time: "(dd bs=100G seek=1 count=0 && dd bs=8M count=6400 conv=notrunc conf=fsync) </dev/random >/dev/sdb"
etc...

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2009-01-30
partition the drive and then don't use the disk (/dev/sdX) but the partition (/dev/sdX1) as target.

---

### Post by minsf on 2009-01-31
thanks.
this is still very slow on my system- is there a way to speed it up by asking dd to create a 8M random file on /dev/sdb and then duplicate it 100000 times; that is will dd go faster when the operation is INSIDE the external hd, or will it read the original 5M file over the usb for every duplicate?

---

### Post by jbrown96 on 2009-01-31
You most certainly want to use /dev/urandom. /dev/random only supplies very high quality pesudo-random numbers. This means that they cannot be generated by any hash function, meaning that the computer cannot "generate" them. They come from random noise from hardware in your computer, the communication buses and driver noise. While you get "good" random numbers, it is very slow. So if you request 500GB from /dev/random, it will give you everything it's got (almost always 4096 bytes), but it will block dd from going any farther until it gets good data. It would probably take months this way. On the other hand, /dev/urandom takes data from /dev/random as a "seed" and then runs hashes and other mathmatical functions on it to arrive at significantly more random data but data that is less random. 

Unless you have a really fast system (and multiple cores don't matter, dd is single threaded), reading from /dev/urandom is always CPU bound, so don't worry about the slow speed of USB. 

Browsing through the man pages (which you should really look at) ```
man dd
``` there is an option to skip a number of blocks and to write a number of blocks. You can find the total number of blocks from ```
sudo fdisk -l
```

Writing random data to a drive doesn't help destroy the data any better than writing zeros does. If anyone has the tools to read what's left over between the blocks (i.e. serious data recovery, FBI, NSA, CIA, not many others), it probably doesn't matter what you do to erase it. I would just zero the drive; it's so much faster and provides just as much security. ```
sudo dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/sdX
``` With this command, there is no way that the hard drive could recognize anything on it; it would require millions of dollars worth of equipment to restore it.

---

### Post by minsf on 2009-01-31
jbrown- very good post about the difference between /dev/random and /dev/urandom. thanks!
yeah, i have already read the manpage and also the relevant part in the info page of coreutils, which is how i came up with idea #2 in the original post. 
still, reading from /dev/zero and transferring through the usb gives me a 1MB/s rate (i send USR1 signals to the dd process while it is running to check that), so i was wondering if there is a way to speed things up by duplicating a zero block INSIDE the external HD, so that it wont need to go through the usb.
any idea how this can be done?
one idea i had was to write one block of zeros, say of 8M, then to use the seek argument in the dd, something like "dd if=/dev/sdb of=/dev/sdb seek=1 bs=8M count=1" to duplicate it, and then change to seek=2 seek=3 etc... to create more duplicates, or alternatively change the count argument to create more duplicates.
however, i think that dd will first read the block to the memory before it write the duplicate, so that it is still being transferred over the usb. 
so is there a way to duplicate a block "inside" the external? maybe with the external's cache?

---

