---
title: "ubuntu 12.04 with asus f55a-sx172du update catastrophe"
date: 2013-08-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rootfairy on 2013-08-15
hi guys,

yesterday i bought this new notebook which has ubuntu 12.04 preinstalled. when i perform an update on the pre-installed version (494 updates @ 452.6mb) multiple packages cannot be compiled, like alx-compat, alsa and other dkms and asus stuff. all together like 5 packages. also suddenly i experienced freezes during the system and even during the recovery solution and then its suddenly working again. i also tried to get a brother mfc-235c scanner working yesterday. i tried for 4 hours and used many guides online and i was still insanely unable to get the scanner running though it was installed and configured properly via the official and other documentation but becoz simply scane or xsane said they were either unable to connect to the the device or invalid arguments. another one problem is for example that after the sudo apt-get upgrade command the built-in ethernet card stops working, though i can get it to work with backport stuff again. i cannot understand how asus is delivering this product with preinstalled linux when after an upgrade everything goes to hell. and i cannot further understand how linux is unable to install a scanner, printer etc by itself and ruin the hardware configuration after an upgrade. at the end of the upgrade the message also shows: post installation script cannot be executed "i could not find any valid image", etc. etc. i dont know what to do! plz help!!! rofc (rolling on floor crying)

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2013-08-15
Can you run the following command in a terminal, and copy and paste the output here? ```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

---

### Post by rootfairy on 2013-08-16
i can run these commands. actually the first time i used graphic udate, second time i used apt-get update & upgrade in terminal. then lastly i used apt-get update & then distr-upgrade, but actually it didnt distr upgrade it just apt-get upraded in effect.

i could run these commands now, too. how do i copy all of the output in terminal? its huge btw... 494 updates. i also know theres a logfile somewhere, but the output therein is different.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2013-08-16
I'm interested in seeing any errors or warnings generated by those commands, as a means to diagnose "when i perform an update on the pre-installed version (494 updates @  452.6mb) multiple packages cannot be compiled, like alx-compat, alsa and  other dkms and asus stuff" because I don't really know what that means.

If you're using gnome-terminal it should have copy and paste menus you can use.

---

### Post by rootfairy on 2013-08-16
yeah i can but i cant scroll all the way up in the terminal.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2013-08-16
Are you using gnome-terminal? If I recall correctly you can change the scrollback buffer to unlimited.

---

