---
title: "10.04 - was a new version of libusb released?"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-04-30
I installed 10.04 tonight, then ran into a "small" problem.  I have 2 non-standard cameras that I have written a program to actually talk to the cameras, download from them, etc..  This program has both a GTK version (uses GTK and libusb development lib) and a command line version (uses just the libusb development lib).  Something appears to have changed in the low-level usb read/write that you use libusb for.

Does anyone know if a newer version of libusb runtime and perhaps development libraries were included in 10.04 versus 9.10?

I know this is something not everyone would run into unless they use libusb.

Thanks in advance!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Paqman on 2010-04-30
packages.ubuntu.com is a great tool for checking stuff like this:

[libusb versions from all Ubuntu releases]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=libusb&searchon=names&suite=all&section=all")

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2010-04-30
> **anewguy said:**
> I installed 10.04 tonight, then ran into a "small" problem.  I have 2 non-standard cameras that I have written a program to actually talk to the cameras, download from them, etc..  This program has both a GTK version (uses GTK and libusb development lib) and a command line version (uses just the libusb development lib).  Something appears to have changed in the low-level usb read/write that you use libusb for.

Does anyone know if a newer version of libusb runtime and perhaps development libraries were included in 10.04 versus 9.10?

I know this is something not everyone would run into unless they use libusb.

Thanks in advance!

Dave ;)

The only [recorded change]("http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/changelogs/pool/main/libu/libusb/libusb_0.1.12-14/changelog") does / should not affect Linux systems. And the [package diff]("http://launchpadlibrarian.net/39035537/libusb_2%3A0.1.12-13_2%3A0.1.12-14.diff.gz") to the previous version supports this.

You could try downgrading libusb to see if that works, but I am 99% confident that that won't make a difference, and the real problem is elsewhere. :)

Regards

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-04-30
Well, I guess I'll just have to chuck my program and my cameras then.  You see, nothing changed at my end.  Everything worked, then I installed 10.04 and of course had to recompile (it's just simple C with GTK and libusb calls).  After the compile in 10.04 it won't run right - returns errors on one of the low-level USB calls to read/write from endpoints.  I had to recompile it as well when I went to 9.10, and it worked fine in 9.10.  Hence my suspicions somethings has changed again.  I of course had to put in my special udev rules file for the cameras as always. They are non-standard USB cameras, and as such get mounted by default as owned by root - my special udev file just mounts the 2 cameras with world access.  This eliminates a lot of hassles of who owns what file in a user's home folder.

The point is, nothing has changed.  The hardware has not changed, the software I wrote has not changed.  The only "new" factor in all of it is 10.04.  GTK is working fine; the error message is from the low-level calls to/from libusb. Not *all* of them, just this particular instance.

I can't imagine why it would even be possible, but nothing changed in regard to little endian versus big endian in the release?

Maybe I'm just silly, but if I have some basic "C" program that has worked through many iterations of Ubuntu, it uses libusb development and runtime, and libusb is delivered via Synaptic package manager, it seems reasonable to me that any calls to libusb (again, NO changes in the source code) should still compile and run ok.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-05-01
How could one ask for worse timing for this:  I checked syslog and found one of my USB ports on my powered hub was getting reset.  So, I tried a different hub - same thing.  Plugging in a USB flash drive wasn't recognized on either.  Unplugged the hub from my PC, plugged the flash drive in, a bingo it worked.

So, I run a USB cable from one of the cameras straight to the USB port and it works.

So, if I'm lucky, it looks like my powered USB hub has gone bad.  I suspect the other hub is okay, but since it is bus powered, I assume maybe it didn't work because the powered one may have done a little overdraw on the port.  I'll try it later again and see.

So, forgive me for questioning libusb-dev, but it's a heck of a coincidence when your USB hub was working right before you install 10.04, then after the install of 10.04 the hub is bad and it makes it look like a change somewhere in the packages did it.  Very unique timing.

Oh well, thanks to everyone who posted back, and my apologies on questioning libusb-dev.

Other than that, my 10.04 has been working great, although I tried eye-candy for the heck of it just to be sure it would still work, and noticed that somehow by default after turning on the cube and rotate cube that the cube becomes so dim you almost don't see it.  If I have any real need for the eye-candy (like teasing one of my friends with a different OS) I'll work more at it to get it working the way I want.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2010-05-01
> **anewguy said:**
> How could one ask for worse timing for this:  I checked syslog and found one of my USB ports on my powered hub was getting reset.  So, I tried a different hub - same thing.  Plugging in a USB flash drive wasn't recognized on either.  Unplugged the hub from my PC, plugged the flash drive in, a bingo it worked.

So, I run a USB cable from one of the cameras straight to the USB port and it works.

So, if I'm lucky, it looks like my powered USB hub has gone bad.  I suspect the other hub is okay, but since it is bus powered, I assume maybe it didn't work because the powered one may have done a little overdraw on the port.  I'll try it later again and see.


Haha, no probs.

I'd be curious to see if it magically works again in 9.10 - though admittedly that shouldn't happen... :)

---

