---
title: "10.04 LTS won't start"
date: 2012-03-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Amarafismedes on 2012-03-05
Hi!

   I'm a regular windows user and I've installed the Ubuntu for the first time (10.04 LTS). When I was trying to install it, it would always freeze during the install in a sort of my windows seven desktop image (by this a mean taking a snapshot at the desktop, tilt it, randomly move pixels from one place to the other, snapshot it again and that confusing image is what I have =). I persisted in the installation and installed it in text mode, and there where no complains ... but after installed, the system, when started, freezes after a few seconds in that same image.  
  Running trough the recovery menu I'm able to log as a user, but after running "startx" the same problem, so I'm imagining it has something to do with the graphic card drivers?
  
 motherboard - AsRock INTEL-VIA Series 4CoreDual-SATA2
 processsor    - Intel Pentium Dual CPU E2180 @ 2.0 GHz
 graphic         - NVIDIA nx6800gt
 soundcard     - Soundblaster Live II 16bit

 There is another issue, the computer is a desktop computer without network access, so all I can do is download whatever needed with another computer and take it in a pen drive!

 I'm in a position that this will have to work since I need to specifically use Ubuntu this semester (and would like to migrate in a long term to Linux) , so all the thanks in the world for the help =)

---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2012-03-05
you must have installed with no internet connection?

like this? 

[http://www.ehow.com/how_8430504_install-ubuntu-software-internet-connection.html](http://www.ehow.com/how_8430504_install-ubuntu-software-internet-connection.html)

---

### Post by Script Warlock on 2012-03-06
try to detach all external hardware leaving the hard disk and ram of course. use the usb stick if your mobo allows to boot with usb or a cd/dvdrom will do. i'm sure your mobo has a built in vc. or if you already installed ubuntu on it remove some hardware like nvidia, soundcard and cdrom. during your ubuntu installation if possible get connected to the net.

---

### Post by rectec794613 on 2012-03-06
> **Amarafismedes said:**
> Hi!

   I'm a regular windows user and I've installed the Ubuntu for the first time (10.04 LTS). When I was trying to install it, it would always freeze during the install in a sort of my windows seven desktop image (by this a mean taking a snapshot at the desktop, tilt it, randomly move pixels from one place to the other, snapshot it again and that confusing image is what I have =). I persisted in the installation and installed it in text mode, and there where no complains ... but after installed, the system, when started, freezes after a few seconds in that same image.  
  Running trough the recovery menu I'm able to log as a user, but after running "startx" the same problem, so I'm imagining it has something to do with the graphic card drivers?
  
 motherboard - AsRock INTEL-VIA Series 4CoreDual-SATA2
 processsor    - Intel Pentium Dual CPU E2180 @ 2.0 GHz
 graphic         - NVIDIA nx6800gt
 soundcard     - Soundblaster Live II 16bit

 There is another issue, the computer is a desktop computer without network access, so all I can do is download whatever needed with another computer and take it in a pen drive!

 I'm in a position that this will have to work since I need to specifically use Ubuntu this semester (and would like to migrate in a long term to Linux) , so all the thanks in the world for the help =)

That sounds exactly like the problem I always have with Ubuntu. If you can get your PC connected to ethernet, try this: boot into recovery mode from the boot menu, select "netroot" and type in the following:
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
```

Reboot and see if you can connect to the internet. We'll gladly assist you if you have more trouble.

---

### Post by Amarafismedes on 2012-03-06
Hi guys .... first of all, thank you for your help and availability, and sorry about my delay but life keeps happening and couldn't log in for a while =)


  But, as for the Ubuntu, I'm still stuck in the same point and I need another aproach besides what you guys sugested (if I understood it correctly, I'm a unproud noob in this)

  Let me explain:  

    @Gremlinzzz
         . I've burned both the CD.iso and the DVD.iso. I wasn't able install it with the CD since it crashed as I descrived. I noticed the DVD had a text mode installation,followed the steps, created the logical partition as sugested (97 Gb in ext4) and a swap 4.3Gb partition and went straight forward without problems. As far as I know, the Ubuntu is running and I can access it trough the recovery menu -> resume normal boot ... But if I try to go into a graphical mode (startx) it freezes

   @rectec794613
        .There is no possibility in getting access to a internet/ethernet conection with this computer

  @Script Warlock
        . The motherboard has no graphic onboard chipset, so I have to manage the nvidia hardware somehow, and besides the CDrom that I'm using I only had the soundcard and 2 sata internal hardrives, unplugging the soundcard made no difference

   Several questions:

      If I had internet conection I would run the   "sudo apt-get intall nvidia-current" as sugested ... If I got it right, that would find and install the current version made available by nvidia. I went to their website, and downloaded their driver for NVIDIA-Linux-x86-295.20.run (it's what they give for nx8600 gt)

     I have it in a pendrive, wich I think has to be mounted ....?

     Is it possible to mount the pen drive (how?), and run somehow that driver and replace the old one?

     After reading some stuff, I hope these details help you guys troubleshooting

     me@Amarafismedes:~§ lspci
.....
.....                                         
02:00:0 VGA compatible controller: nVIDIA Corporation G84 [GeForce 8600 GT] (rev a1)

     me@Amarafismedes:~§ lspci -vv

02:00:0 VGA compatible controller: nVIDIA Corporation G84 [GeForce 8600 GT] (rev a1)
            Subsystem: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. Device 1020
            Control: I/O+ Mem BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR+ FastB2B- DisINTx-
            Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- PaarErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
            Latency: 0, Cache Line Size 64bytes
            Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ24
            Region 0: Memory at fd000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16M]
            Region 1: Memory at c0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
            Region 3: Memory at fd000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=32M]
            Region 5: I/O ports at dc00 [size=128]
            Expansion ROM at febe0000 [disabled] [size=128K]
            Capabilities: <Access denied>
            Kernel driver in use : nouveau
            Kernel modules : nvidiafb, nouveau
    

     Thank you asll in advance =))

---

