---
title: "11.04 didn't work - Will I have any better luck with 10.10?"
date: 2011-05-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by markyork on 2011-05-18
After multiple attempts at installing 11.04 on my laptop using Wubi I gave up.

My laptop is a Toshiba Qosmio X505-Q882: i5 450m processor, 4GB RAM, GeForce GTS 360M with 1GB vRAM + 1.25 GB shared vRAM, 500GB 7200RPM HDD  - I've got power coming out of my ears on the thing!

Every time I installed Ubuntu I got an error in the text output after the initial reboot: "failed to get i915 symbols, graphics turbo disabled error on boot". And the screen would only show blocks of messed up colors, obviously indicating there was a display problem. I had to force a shutdown when this happened.

I would then reboot into Ubuntu's Safe Graphics mode. The installation would continue and then automatically reboot again. However after that I was presented with five boot options, the first two having Linux and a version number, several were recovery options and the last one was a Windows recovery option.

I selected the first option and came to a text login (command prompt - not sure what the Linux term is for that). Being **COMPLETELY** and **TOTALLY** new to Ubuntu (or even Linux, for that matter), I didn't have a clue what to do there so I just rebooted into Windows.

So then I did the Googling thing. I searched for the error message I mentioned above and tried one fix that seemed to work for people. It involved entering these two lines: "[FONT="Courier New"]echo "blacklist intel_ips" >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf[/FONT]" and "[FONT="Courier New"]echo -e "i915/nintel_ips" >> /etc/modules[/FONT]". I tried it, but got a permission denied message. I tried prepending them with "sudo" (like I said: total noob), but that didn't work either.

So I gave up on 11.04 and came to these forums. I noticed a lot of people also having graphics issues (and others) with 11.04 and many replies saying 10.10 works great for them. So I downloaded 10.10. Having gone through all of that I'm not going to continue to fight too much harder to get Ubuntu to run on my laptop, but I'm going to give 10.10 a try.

My questions:
With 10.10 can I get the Ubuntu/Windows boot option like I did with 11.04? It goes without saying I want to be able to revert back to Windows if I'm unsuccessful with 10.10.

Also, will some sort of fix ever come out for this issue? In my searching for the error, I saw forum posts with the error dating back to Ubuntu 9! What's the likelihood the issue will ever be resolved?

10.04 being a LTS, should I install that instead?

Thanks for anyone's help! I'd really like to give Ubuntu a fair shake, but with these problems hampering my efforts, I'm only willing to go so far...

---

### Post by 3xp10r3r|X13 on 2011-05-18
[FONT=Courier New]If you're having so much trouble using the wubi installation why don't you  just install ubuntu next to windows.

Just make some free space available and go for it.[/FONT] [FONT=Courier New]

Advatages:[/FONT] [FONT=Courier New]
- It's faster (doesn't always has to access windows)
- more stable
- you can ensure that it's running fine

PLUS[/FONT] [FONT=Courier New]

- no weird errors[/FONT] [FONT=Courier New]

And you would still have your loved windows OS[/FONT] [FONT=Courier New]

Hope this helped [/FONT] [FONT=Courier New]:)[/FONT]

---

### Post by markyork on 2011-05-18
Hi, er - um - "3xp10r3r|X13" :)

Thanks for the quick reply. How exactly would I go about doing that? (Installing Ubuntu **next** to Windows?

Do you mean creating a separate partition on the drive and installing Ubuntu on that?

If so, can you suggest a good (preferably free) partitioning software product?

Thanks again.

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2011-05-18
Agree with the previous poster.  Wubi is iffy on some boxes and it was never made for a long term solution.  If you want to try Linux then use a dual boot by installing it beside your Windows.
See these for information on dual booting.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/switching/C/dualboot.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/switching/C/dualboot.html)
Rex

---

### Post by 3xp10r3r|X13 on 2011-05-18
[FONT=Courier New]It's actually very simple,
just make some free space available using windows:

start --> control panel --> search for partitions --> once you arrived in that menu you can make the existing partition smaller (which means that you are creating free space)

Then just insert your ubuntu live cd (download iso from website and burn it onto a dvd)

Boot from that dvd and install ubuntu next to windows (theres an option during the installation process or you just partition it manually --> you could watch some videos on that-youtube)

After you've installed the whole thing you have to reboot and from that point on you can choose which OS you want to access.

That should do it :D

PS: Just follow the links in the previous post
[/FONT]

---

### Post by markyork on 2011-05-18
Thanks for the tips, guys!

I'm hoping installing "next" to Windows will prove to be successful, as I am very anxious to learn Ubuntu and Linux.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-18
Be aware you may still run into problems with the video.  I believe the trick is in getting the driver installed.  If you do get problems, try i915modeset=1 or i915modeset=0 in your boot.  You would edit this at the menu you are presented with for boot.  Once you get to a GUI screen and have internet access (either hard-wired or wireless) you would:
 
sudo apt-get update
 
Then go to system/administration/additional drivers (might say restricted drivers?) and let it do it's thing there.

---

### Post by markyork on 2011-05-18
Thanks, wep

I'll keep that in mind.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-18
It might actually be i915.nomodeset.  Also, you could just try nomodeset, as I know that works on some.
 
This is my understanding, but it could be wrong:
 
With 10.04 came a change in that the kernel now looks for your video and tries to set it up.  I *think* this might be why xorg.conf disapeared at the same time.  This is known as KMS (I think that means kernel mode setting).  If you have trouble with video - perhaps only a text base screen, perhaps a GUI screen that is distorted or even unreadable, this could be causing the problem.  Using "nomodeset" on the boot line tells ubuntu not to use KMS.  The result may be a readable screen but at a lower resolution, etc., at which point you should install a driver for it, if you can find one.

---

### Post by markyork on 2011-05-19
> **wep940 said:**
> It might actually be i915.nomodeset.  Also, you could just try nomodeset, as I know that works on some.
 
This is my understanding, but it could be wrong:
 
With 10.04 came a change in that the kernel now looks for your video and tries to set it up.  I *think* this might be why xorg.conf disapeared at the same time.  This is known as KMS (I think that means kernel mode setting).  If you have trouble with video - perhaps only a text base screen, perhaps a GUI screen that is distorted or even unreadable, this could be causing the problem.  Using "nomodeset" on the boot line tells ubuntu not to use KMS.  The result may be a readable screen but at a lower resolution, etc., at which point you should install a driver for it, if you can find one.

Thanks for the info on the video part of my issue.

Even after I get Ubuntu installed I think I may still have to deal with the video part of it. I say that because I'm in the process of repartitioning my (only) laptop's drive in preparation for dual-booting and general drive re-organization. The software I chose to use initially is [GParted]("http://gparted.sourceforge.net/") and when I booted from the disk it created I saw what were obviously Unix/Linux commands scrolling on the screen and then I saw the same video problem I described in my OP - blocks of colors all over the screen.

I can certainly use a different partitioning software, but that experience tells me I will still have to deal with the video problem after I get Ubuntu installed on the new partition. In fact, I'll go so far as to say getting Ubuntu installed is a side issue and not really the main problem, despite the generous help and suggestions people have offered in this thread regarding how to install Ubuntu.

One thing I'm wondering: If I can't install 11.04 using the gui, how can I install it at the command line? Note in my OP, when using Wubi the Windows side of the install was fine, but when it rebooted and went to the Ubuntu installer with the gui welcome screen and all, that's when I ran into issues.

Should I maybe consider going [this route]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD")? Maybe then I can deal with the video issue at install time instead of after the fact. What's the difficulty level with installing Ubuntu from the command line? (Remember I'm a Linux idiot still!)

---

### Post by walt.smith1960 on 2011-05-19
> **markyork said:**
> Hi, er - um - "3xp10r3r|X13" :)

Thanks for the quick reply. How exactly would I go about doing that? (Installing Ubuntu **next** to Windows?

Do you mean creating a separate partition on the drive and installing Ubuntu on that?

If so, can you suggest a good (preferably free) partitioning software product?

Thanks again.

It isn't free-it's shareware-30 day trial though.
[http://www.terabyteunlimited.com/bootit-bare-metal.htm](http://www.terabyteunlimited.com/bootit-bare-metal.htm)

It's what I've been using for years before I knew about Ubuntu.  The thing about using its predecessor(bootItNG) is using caution when installing anything using GRUB.  You want to make sure GRUB goes in the Linux partition, not the MBR.  I've also had it happen where I did the install,  boot edit steps and got a GRUB rescue prompt rather than a bootable install.  I just reinstalled without formatting and it worked, no idea why. I maybe could have reinstalled GRUB but it seemed easier just to reinstall the whole thing.

The advantage of using this boot manager is you're not restricted by the 4 primary partition restriction-You can have over 100 partitions, all of the primary if you want to.  You can also designate which partitions a certain operating system can see.  For instance you could have two data storage partitions, one EXT4 and one NTFS.  You could set it so Windows operating systems can only see the NTFS partition and the xnix operating systems can see both the NTFS and EXT4 partitions.  You can also resize partitions including EXT formatted one which is new in this version.

---

### Post by markyork on 2011-05-19
Thanks for the tip, walt.

I've done tons of research and reading in the past 24 hrs and have implemented a backup-partitioning plan prior to my next attempt at installing Ubuntu 11.04 on a new partition.

I'm going to try using GParted, mainly as part of following instructions in a system backup scheme I found in an article. But I ran into possible graphic issues with GParted already - I suspect due to the fact that GParted seems to use Linux and I'm having video issues with Linux (as I found out during the gui part of my attempts at installing Ubuntu). So if that doesn't work I'll use EASEUS - seems to be rated highly among free partitioning software.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-19
I don't think I'd go minimal - but what I would do is download the alternate installation CD.  It is text based ("GUI"'s are just terminal defs) so you shouldn't run into the video problem during the installation using it.  However, I'm still a little worried about after it is installed.  After it is installed, you can reboot and from the GRUB boot menu, edit the normal ubuntu boot line to include nomodeset and see if it will boot then.  Do use the alternate CD and let us know what happens!

---

### Post by markyork on 2011-05-19
Thanks for the tip, wep. I've got some planning to do over the weekend on this: I'm going to be repartitioning my drive first, and setting up multiple partitions for Win and Ubuntu, which I'm learning about [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1762659"), so the actual install won't likely happen 'till next week, but I'll post back here on my experience and/or with any issues I run into!

You guys are great! Thanks for all the great help and tips!

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-20
I'm trying remember off-hand, but I think the repartitioning options are also in the alternate CD installation process - you might want to check that.

EDIT:  Just noticed - Brooklyn Center????  I live there with my sister and brother inlaw.  Small world.  Also, love the cat avatar.  My cat just went through the "I like that too, Dave" routine when I brought home hard salami from the store today!

---

### Post by markyork on 2011-05-20
> **wep940 said:**
> EDIT:  Just noticed - Brooklyn Center????  I live there with my sister and brother inlaw.  Small world.  Also, love the cat avatar.  My cat just went through the "I like that too, Dave" routine when I brought home hard salami from the store today!

Small world, indeed! I stay there during the week with my nephew while I work as a web programmer for US Internet. I actually live just south of Alexandria.

The cat avatar came from [this video]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZf2hUIuwRI") - hilarious! :o I chuckle every time I look at my own avatar! (I have three of my own - cats, not avatars ;))

---

### Post by markyork on 2011-05-23
> **wep940 said:**
> I don't think I'd go minimal - but what I would do is download the alternate installation CD.  It is text based ("GUI"'s are just terminal defs) so you shouldn't run into the video problem during the installation using it.  However, I'm still a little worried about after it is installed.  After it is installed, you can reboot and from the GRUB boot menu, edit the normal ubuntu boot line to include nomodeset and see if it will boot then.  Do use the alternate CD and let us know what happens!

Wep, I did end up having to use the alternate CD.

I repartitioned my drive, leaving a little over 200GB undefined space to install Ubuntu.

I went through the text-based alternate install (God help the non-computer geek who tries to install using that method!). A couple of things I have to deal with as a result of installing: 

**1)** During the install I was dismayed to find that the installer couldn't recognize my network card. I didn't know what to enter for either the DHCP info, nor the IP address info (I'm on your standard home DSL wireless router setup with a network key and DHCP), so I just chose to skip that until I can install the driver manually.

**2)** Whether I just missed it, or the options aren't there for the alternate install, I never saw the chance to set the home and / partition sizes, although there was a step involving the swap size, but I just left it at the default of something like 4.6 or so.

**3)** Finally, Wep, your fears have been realized: the reason for using the alternate install in the first place - graphic issues - reared its ugly head again. On the first reboot after the installation process, I got the same graphic anomalies as when I tried the Wubi and standalone gui installations.

When I was at the boot choice menu (that allows you to choose between the kernels (I think), Windows, and recovery options for both, I highlighted the top most one and pressed "e" with the intention of using "nomodeset", but the resulting screen after pressing "e" and then Enter threw me off. It had a bunch of lines which I assumed to be commands to be carried out during boot. I could write over any of them and there was one blank line, so I entered in nomodeset in that line, but I got a message saying nomodeset was an unrecognized command.

So I need to deal with a few things here:
**1)** figuring out how to get a network driver installed

**2)** I need to resolve the partitioning issue: everything I've read says that if I ever want to upgrade Ubuntu I will want the home directory in its own partition, can I do that post-installation? At this point I'm not averse to scrapping the installation and reinstalling if necessary

**3)** I need to get the graphic issue resolved

Please, when offering advice on commands to enter, keep in mind that I was lost when I used the option to edit the boot command! Simply saying "edit the normal ubuntu boot line to include nomodeset" (a quote from Wep's instructions above) won't do it. I tried that and wasn't even sure if I did it right or if I entered it on the right screen! :) "Enter this text and you'll see this on the screen" is what I need at this point to know I'm doing stuff right. ;)

Thanks a lot for anyone's help!

[EDIT]: Since this has turned into an installation issue, I created a new thread with these questions here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10853072#post10853072](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10853072#post10853072)

---

### Post by HalfEmptyHero on 2011-05-23
There are a few things you need to do. The partitioning thing is part simple, but depends on how you are installing the gui installer will work, you just have to add nomodeset. When the boot menu for the livecd comes up you should see an option for Other Options (or something like that) I believe it is F6. You hit that, and you will see a list of options, one of them being nomodeset. I have never been able to get it to work by choosing an item from the list, it's a bug I guess, so hit escape and you will be able to type in nomodeset. You'll see what I mean. When you get to partitioning, choose manual. You will then be able to set up your partitions as you desire. I recommend 10GB for root, and whatever you want for home. Don't forget your swap either.

The alternate installer also has the manual partition option, choose that if you are using it.

If I had a picture of the boot options, I could show you where to put nomodeset, but ubuntu isn't currently installed on this computer. Your other option is to boot into safe mode with networking from the recovery mode option in grub. You will need an Ethernet connection as wireless won't work. Install the graphic drivers with the following commands:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```Keep in mind there will be a few issues with your laptop on Ubuntu. For one, your memory card reader will not work. There was a way around this on 10.10, but it doesn't work on 11.04. Your mic also won't work. Others with similar laptops have gotten it to work, but I have had limited success. Your hdmi audio probably won't work by default, I can't remember if it does in 11.04 or not. If it doesn't I can show you how to fix that.

---

### Post by markyork on 2011-05-23
> **HalfEmptyHero said:**
> There are a few things you need to do. The partitioning thing is part simple, but depends on how you are installing the gui installer will work, you just have to add nomodeset. When the boot menu for the livecd comes up you should see an option for Other Options (or something like that) I believe it is F6. You hit that, and you will see a list of options, one of them being nomodeset. I have never been able to get it to work by choosing an item from the list, it's a bug I guess, so hit escape and you will be able to type in nomodeset. You'll see what I mean. When you get to partitioning, choose manual. You will then be able to set up your partitions as you desire. I recommend 10GB for root, and whatever you want for home. Don't forget your swap either.

The alternate installer also has the manual partition option, choose that if you are using it.

If I had a picture of the boot options, I could show you where to put nomodeset, but ubuntu isn't currently installed on this computer. Your other option is to boot into safe mode with networking from the recovery mode option in grub. You will need an Ethernet connection as wireless won't work. Install the graphic drivers with the following commands:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```Keep in mind there will be a few issues with your laptop on Ubuntu. For one, your memory card reader will not work. There was a way around this on 10.10, but it doesn't work on 11.04. Your mic also won't work. Others with similar laptops have gotten it to work, but I have had limited success. Your hdmi audio probably won't work by default, I can't remember if it does in 11.04 or not. If it doesn't I can show you how to fix that.

Great info!

I will give the gui installer a shot again using nomodeset. Like I said, I installed using the alternate installer but didn't see the manual partition option. Well, to be more accurate, I did use the installer to create the linux partition, but I don't remember seeing anything about creating a home and root partition.

I created a new thread focusing on the installation part of this, and I'll post my results there.

Thanks again!

---

