---
title: "11.10 upgrade broke  my sister's laptop. Help!"
date: 2011-11-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kramer65 on 2011-11-17
Hello,

I am running Ubuntu 10.04 on my own PC and since I was so happy about it my sister asked me if I could install it on her laptop as well. So I did. 

Since apparently 11.04 was new/better/shiner etc. I installed that on her laptop. Unity was a bit too different (from Windows) for her so I set it up so that she could use gnome. I just arrived at her place and she tells me that a recent update broke her system. I asked if it was a distribution upgrade and the answer was "I don't know, I just click ok" (to give a feel for her knowledge of the system.. :-)  )

So the situation is now that I see that there was indeed an upgrade to 11.10 (I recognise the login screen from some screenshots I saw). When I log in I can see the desktop with the black panel at the top with nothing in it. When mousing to the left I can't see anything appearing (as it should with Unity) and when opening a program (by for example clicking a text file on the desktop) I can't see a close icon on the top left, but just the menu (File, Edit, etc.).

So my question: How can I get it back to "Normal" (being gnome)?

Note: I don't even know how to open a terminal or anything since I can't open any menu.

All tips are welcome!

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-17
Is this a joke? Who wrote this message?

Are you using the identity of another person?

---

### Post by kramer65 on 2011-11-17
Unfortunately this is not a joke. This is my username. Why would you think this is a joke?

I am fairly ok with Ubuntu. But I can't do anything if I can't even open a program..

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-17
CTRL+ALT+T to open a terminal

```
sudo apt-get remove ubuntu-desktop
```

```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

---

### Post by Johnny3 on 2011-11-17
I am don't use the terminal much ether. But went Ubuntu is turning on hold the shift key down and try one of those options. Just a thought.
Good Luck and God bless Johnny3 65++

---

### Post by kramer65 on 2011-11-17
CTRL+ALT+T Doesn't do anything.

ALT+TAB doesn't do anything either btw.. :S

---

### Post by kramer65 on 2011-11-17
Ok thanks!

I restarted the computer and selected "Ubuntu 2D", and that does work perfectly.

Excuse me for ringing such a large bell. I thought the upgrade really broke something vital, and since all her photo's are on this pc I was a little worried.

Thanks a lot anyway, and thanks from my sister as well!

---

### Post by jnguyen on 2011-11-17
Try Ctrl +  Alt + F2   or F3 key
It works on my Dell E5520 with 11.10 Kubuntu desktop. It should work with Ubuntu desktop too.
shd

---

