---
title: "11.10 won't install from CD"
date: 2012-03-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Time Traveler on 2012-03-29
After enjoying this installation on my laptop for a while I decided to install it on a desktop.  I have two of them, very similar.  Asus P4 motherboards dating to 2004.

I just installed a new C: drive and XP installation on the target unit, leaving some room for the Linux installation.  When I boot from the CD the installation screen does not come up.  I do get the initial message across the top, then a few seconds of a little icon at the bottom, then a few seconds of a blinking cursor at the top left, then nothing.  The log file says something about can't find ISO path.

The same CD works fine in the other desktop.  I haven't actually installed it, but it fully loads and allows me to go through the menus.

The new hard drive is a 2 TB Seagate.  Is it possible the installer is barfing on the drive for some reason?

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2012-03-29
> **Time Traveler said:**
> The new hard drive is a 2 TB Seagate. Is it possible the installer is barfing on the drive for some reason?
 
 
not, but it's possible something is wrong with the CD drive.
 
suggest you try to boot with USB key. if you can't boot from USB key you could use PLOP boot manager (if you have a floppy drive it is a good solution as you can stick PLOP to floppy)

---

### Post by Time Traveler on 2012-03-31
It appears to be the video card causing the problem.

After numerous attempts to install I noticed that, about half the time, I got a screen full of random garbage.  So I pulled the video card out of the other desktop and installed it into the target machine and it comes up.  

The card in question is an Asus branded Radeon 9200 pro. 256 meg

The problem occurs just at the point where the purple background comes up with the Ubuntu logo in the center of the screen and the flashing dots underneath.  I'm guessing that the software is calling for a different video mode at that point and something isn't working.

---

### Post by cacycleworks on 2012-03-31
This same problem is preventing me from installing ubuntu 11.10 to any of my computers with nVidia graphics, which is all of my desktops. I've found that other distributions (sabayon, etc) are not exhibiting this behavior.

Quite frankly, I'm stumped.

Computers I can't boot 11.10 cd or usb to:
Dell c521 amd x2 with onboard nvidia
ASUS Maximus III GENE with Xeon X3440 and GT210 in a PCI slot

This non-beginner would like some help too.

Thanks,
Chris

---

### Post by cacycleworks on 2012-03-31
Further, the boot up menu isn't allowing me to add the **nomoeset** parameter, which might help me fix it. The installer for this 11.10 is broken :P Will download 12.04 beta and give it a whirl. Like in my other thread, is ubuntu trying to push people away? :confused:

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-03-31
Should be able to F6 right when the 1st ubuntu orange screen appears and add nomodeset.  I had to do that on the new PC I built because I went with nVidia graphics - got me up and then I made the change permanent.  Don't know why you can't get it, but you need to do this on the orange screen - not when it looks like it's dead.  Just be sure it's nomodeset - you've got a misspelling in what you posted (as a 3 Stooges fan, I hope the misspelling was an accident ;) ).

---

### Post by cacycleworks on 2012-03-31
Yeah, it ignores F6. Additionally, the initial grub boot screen is dark, not orangey-brown. So bizarre... making usb stick with 12.04 beta 2 now.

OK, just got a successful boot with 12.04b2. *phew* It wouldn't boot properly without nomodeset, but at least it works. I'm thinking to have a nephew install 12.04 to that computer's HDD and then maybe his folks will be ok with me giving it to him. :)

---

### Post by Time Traveler on 2012-04-01
Well I just finished installing 11.10 (using a different video card), so for me the problem is effectively solved.  I'll try the Radeon 9200 again now and see what happens.

EDIT: Still can't use the Radeon 9200.  The system crashes at the point where the video mode changes.

---

