---
title: "10.10 netbook edition - sidebar crashes?"
date: 2011-03-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by candtalan on 2011-03-14
I was talking to someone yesterday  who had found that 10.10 netbook edition was not working at all for them because of a strange display blanking out - he found it hard to describe. Anyway he gave it a pretty low mark and removed it.

So I thought I would also try 10.10 netbook. I have just done that on my desktop PC, and it looks as if I have the same problem. It is totally unusable. It boots up ok and looks good, but as soon as I move the mouse cursor into the sidebar, the display blacks out and refreshes.

The top panel works ok, fwiw.

lspci shows  
vga intel82865G (rev 02)

Any suggestions please?

---

### Post by 5149.5 on 2011-03-14
FWIW, 10.10 NR works fine on my netbook. I haven't had any issues with the launcher.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-03-14
Having the same problem on my laptop - downloaded the 10.10 netbook edition to try and have the exact same results.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-03-14
Hey, I'm curious - are any of you with this problem running from a persistent USB "install"?  I'm doing that and it just occured to me to ask in case that has anything to do with it.

---

### Post by 5149.5 on 2011-03-14
> **wep940 said:**
> Hey, I'm curious - are any of you with this problem running from a persistent USB "install"?  I'm doing that and it just occured to me to ask in case that has anything to do with it.

I can run from a USB w/persistence and don't see the problem on my AAO D255.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-03-15
Shoot, guess that takes care of that idea!  Thanks for the info!

---

### Post by candtalan on 2011-03-15
For information this is entered now as a bug:
10.10 netbook sidebar crashes continuously
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-2d/+bug/735376](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-2d/+bug/735376)

If it affects you then you might consider to use entry on the bug page for the 
'This bug affects you' 

tia

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-03-16
Thank you!

---

