---
title: "12.04 bootup time slowing down"
date: 2013-12-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by padnoter on 2013-12-23
Hi,
My bootup times have slowed down to about 85seconds (dell xps L702x quadcore i5)... the slow bit I now notice is after I login typing my password... instead of the desktop coming up almost instantly it now just has the wallpaper for about 40seconds before the ubuntu side icons are displayed.

I've attached a bootchart (as a zip.. as a picture it kept making it too small to read) & am hoping someone can point me in the right direction?

Many thanks
Padnoter
[ATTACH=CONFIG]248833[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by devine.steve on 2013-12-23
Sorry - I can't open your image file. Get in a terminal and run 'dmesg |less'  and see if you get any useful msgs from the logs. 
I would check /etc/resolv.conf to see what your nameserver is set for and look for something that is trying to reach the outside world. If that's the case it would seem that you are waiting for a process to time out. Added any kind of weather bug type software maybe? Something that's incorporated into the desktop?

---

### Post by padnoter on 2013-12-23
Hi,
Thanks for reply.
nameserver 127.0.0.1
& nothing else in resolv.conf

dmesg is all double dutch to me I'm afraid... I'll reboot again in a minute & add some output here.

I've re-attached the bootchart again as a .tar this time... see if you can get that?

I don't think I've added anything recently (no weather apps - is there anyway to see what i've installed recently? or an install date?)... I have been using classicmenu-ind for a while - but it does look quite busy in the bootchart - but not really sure how to read bootchart.

cheers 4 looking

---

### Post by devine.steve on 2013-12-23
Instead of rebooting - log out of the desktop and log back in .. do you get the delays? Same question if you lock the screen and log back in.

---

### Post by padnoter on 2013-12-23
well this is strange... now i've raised a forum entry, my pc has started behaving.... bootup in 33 seconds - which I'm happy with.... It was 1m25secs in the 1st bootchart...

lock screen & log back in - is instant
logout & login is a couple of seconds.

presume the dmesg output is redundant now - until it plays up again.

but if anyone can see my bootcharts... attached here is the good one (see prev. posts for bad one)... and if anyone can figure why it was slow and now ok.. i'd be interested to know..

thanks

---

### Post by vasple on 2013-12-23
I have the same issue, and it was due to the dropbox client doing it's initial index/sync process and to the chrome-browser which I've setup to cache a lot of offline data like gmail-offline and gdocs-offline.

 I need both of them so I've settled with the delay. Does any of that apply to your case?

---

### Post by padnoter on 2013-12-24
Hi Vasple,
No no dropbox here... I just booted now (time seemed ok) and bootchart shows 59seconds. I think I need to understand bootchart & what it means a lot more, as this shows Firefox doing a fair bit of work (firefox doesn't auto-start), but I did start it as soon as I logged in.. so my question to any bootchart experts.. how do you read it? does it show more than just the bootup? and if so, what signals the end of the real bootup process? Is there a process name or something I can look for?

---

