---
title: "14.04 Nvidia and xorg tearing and flickering when running 3D applications."
date: 2014-07-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kira-yamato-2008 on 2014-07-25
I'm currently runing Lubuntu 14.04 on an old HP G60-120US. I'm also running an external LCD monitor because the built-in LCD has physial damage that blanks all but the right third of the screen. Everything works beautifuly, with the exception of 3D Applications, like games, such as, OpenArena. The issue also seems to present it self when I watch a video on Hulu, but using the pop out viewer on a Hulu show doesn't have the same issue... Essetially I can work around this problem for everything but games that use OpenGl Graphics Acceleration.

I've seen several potential solutions like [this one here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1769989&highlight=14.04+xorg+3d+flicker") on these forums, but none of them look like they're gonna work for me. Especially because my xorg settings window doesn't have the settings shown in the other thread.
Can Somebody please help me?

Specs: 
CPU: AMD Turion X2 RM-70 @ 2.00ghz 
Video Graphics: nVidia GeForce 8200M
RAM: 3GB (Shared with graphics)

*Edit: I did try the Prorpietary 331.38 version of the binary driver, but that caused other issues like freezing, and my desktop not fitting my monitor in any resolution avliable. So a secondary question is should I use a legacy proprietary driver for this graphics setup, or continue on with xorg and attempt to fix the tearing and flickering issue?*

---

### Post by mooreted on 2014-07-25
Here's how I fixed mine. Basically the problem is that Vsync doesn't work when the video card is in adaptive power mode. I set mine to performance mode in xorg.conf and I get no more tearing in videos and games:

Ok, took some doing, but I fixed it as follows:

Open a CLI and do:

sudo nvidia-xconfig

Then:

sudo nvidia-settings

Set your screen resolution and refresh rate in the Xserver settings (I set mine to 1920x1200 @60hz) and save it to xorg.conf

Then do:

sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Edit the device section thusly:

Section "Device"
Identifier "Device0"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
BoardName "GeForce GTX 650"
Option "RegistryDwords" "PerfLevelSrc=0x2222"
Option "TripleBuffer" "True"
EndSection

This sets the card to performance mode and enables triple buffering.

In nvidia-settings/OpenGL set:

Sync to Vblank
Allow Flipping
Use Conformant Texture Clamping

Save your configuration and restart the X-server.

---

### Post by mooreted on 2014-07-25
Also you can use gedit instead of nano if you want, I'm just used to nano.

---

### Post by kira-yamato-2008 on 2014-07-25
Well there are two problems here:

First when I do "sudo nvidia-xconfig" it tells me "sudo: nvidia-xconfig: command not found"

Second when I do the sudo nividia-settings this is all I get:
 [ATTACH=CONFIG]255022[/ATTACH]

So what now?

---

### Post by mooreted on 2014-07-25
Looks like you don't have the Nvidia drivers installed. 

[http://www.binarytides.com/install-nvidia-drivers-ubuntu-14-04/](http://www.binarytides.com/install-nvidia-drivers-ubuntu-14-04/)

---

### Post by kira-yamato-2008 on 2014-07-25
Is this a trusted source for commands, downloads, and/or information that's provided?

*Edit: Also big time d'oh! for not having the correct drivers avliable. Good thing I did check nvidia's site also the correct drivers are not avliable in my "Additional Drivers" menu.*

---

### Post by mooreted on 2014-07-25
That's odd, it should be in there. Open a terminal post the output of the following command:

lspci

Also, the link above is where I got my drivers. A lot of people use that PPA because they have newer drivers than the standard Ubuntu repositories.

---

### Post by kira-yamato-2008 on 2014-07-25
Yes and the other drivers 331.38 were causing my system to lock up, so far no such issue with 340.24 which is what the nvidia site suggests. Next after that is doing what you said... Are you sure my 8200M G can handle tripple buffering?

*Edit: It occurs to me that I can't use your particular setup anyways as I have a GeForce  8200M G and you have a GeForce GTX *650.

---

### Post by kira-yamato-2008 on 2014-07-26
Well I over came the errors and got most everything running correctly by doing the fallowing:

Fallowing the Instructions [Here to install the correct drivers]("http://www.binarytides.com/install-nvidia-drivers-ubuntu-14-04/") and then fallowing the setup instructions [found here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1769989") with one extra step.

*Edit 3: **Remember to run the software updater after the install!***

The final step is to save your ".nvidia-settings-rc" using this part of the X Server Settings:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]255035[/ATTACH]

Now All I seem to have an issue with is ocassional dropping of my Logitech m100 mouse which is fixed by unplugging it then pluging it back in. Along with that 3D Rendering still locks up my computer, atleast when I tested it with OpenArena. Do I need a new thread for that?


[I]Edit: Apparnetly Facebook is fully capable of causing this machine to lock up. At this point I'm going to cut my losses and go back to the Nouveau Display driver because it gives me none of these problems. My only thought is that I might have bad memory contributing to the issue or a conflict somewhere...

Edit 2: It might just be lack of support or a bug in the support for the intigrated GeForce 8200M G graphics, or because of the age of the GPU. Either way I'll wait and see if there is a solution that becomes avliable while reverting to the default display driver for the sake of functionality.
[/I]

---

### Post by mooreted on 2014-07-26
You wouldn't think Facebook would be so hard on your GPU. Of course it could be a problem with the Nvidia drivers. The support we get for Linux is sporadic at best.

That was all the ideas I had. Maybe someone geekier than me will come by with a better solution.

Good luck.

---

### Post by kira-yamato-2008 on 2014-07-26
It could just be a bad spot in my ram, or just a lack of support for my current card. I figure most probably some setting somewhere is on by default that my card isn't compatible with. Cause videos and games are what cause the lock ups when I use an NVIDIA binary.

---

