---
title: "10.04 and 10.10 problem."
date: 2010-10-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Alerion34 on 2010-10-25
Hello. I have quite the issue. Even with 10.04 i had this problem. What it does it that maybe 10 to 15 mins of use of the OS the screen will go black, and i am not able to wake it up. My computer requires a restart. And then again 10 to 15 mins use of the OS it does it again. I'm guessing It's an GPU problem.

I have an Nvidia 9800 gt 1gb gpu.

Thanks.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-10-25
I know some people have been having "fun" with nVidia based cards for a while, but I don't know if this one such problem as usually it's black or some other thing at boot.

Does your video card have a fan on it, or just a heat sink?  If a fan, I'd check to be sure it's working.

Somehow, with the miriad of problems this could be, heat shutdown comes to mind, but I would have thought by now the card would be blown (unless of course there is thermal protection built it to the GPU that would make it shutdown).  Still wouldn't explain why you can just reboot and it works right away again.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Alerion34 on 2010-10-25
> **anewguy said:**
> I know some people have been having "fun" with nVidia based cards for a while, but I don't know if this one such problem as usually it's black or some other thing at boot.

Does your video card have a fan on it, or just a heat sink?  If a fan, I'd check to be sure it's working.

Somehow, with the miriad of problems this could be, heat shutdown comes to mind, but I would have thought by now the card would be blown (unless of course there is thermal protection built it to the GPU that would make it shutdown).  Still wouldn't explain why you can just reboot and it works right away again.

Dave ;)

Yes it does have a fan. But overheating wouldn't be the problem as this only happens with ubuntu 10.04 and 10.10 and probably 9.04 has i have researched this problem, and it seems to be in that version too. What it almost seems to do is like go into sleep mode, but the ability to wake it up is inevitable. The computer still runs, but the monitor display does not come back no matter what i do.

---

### Post by mogging on 2010-10-26
Acer 4740 with Nvidia GForce GT 320M(1G GPU) failed to install in ubuntu 10.10 DVD edition,can any one help ? I follow the official instruction exactly...

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-10-26
> **mogging said:**
> Acer 4740 with Nvidia GForce GT 320M(1G GPU) failed to install in ubuntu 10.10 DVD edition,can any one help ? I follow the official instruction exactly...

Create a new thread for your question.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-10-26
Back to Alerion34's question:

If it is going to sleep, perhaps you should try System/Preferences/Power Management and change the monitor sleep time.  If you are using your PC, I'm not sure why it would go to sleep, but I suppose there could be some instance.  I know I have had problems some of the time where my PC itself has gone to sleep and I am not able to wake it.  I changed my settings to that "Put the computer to sleep when inactive for" option to "never" and set my monitor sleep time to 30 minutes.  Maybe you'll need to set yours differently - if you're using a screen saver you could just set both to "never", but remember it will still be using power.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Alerion34 on 2010-10-30
I have tried all of those, and to no avail. I'm not sure what's wrong with it :s

---

