---
title: "Serious resolution problem, help"
date: 2008-12-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gigaferz on 2008-12-29
this is my sudo lshw:


pci
          description: Host bridge
          product: VT82C693A/694x [Apollo PRO133x]
          vendor: VIA Technologies, Inc.
          physical id: 100
          bus info: pci@0000:00:00.0
          version: 03
          width: 32 bits
          clock: 33MHz
          configuration: driver=agpgart-via module=via_agp
        *-pci
             description: PCI bridge
             product: VT8363/8365 [KT133/KM133 AGP]
             vendor: VIA Technologies, Inc.
             physical id: 1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:01.0
             version: 00
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 66MHz
             capabilities: pci pm normal_decode bus_master cap_list
           *-display
                description: VGA compatible controller
                product: NV6 [Vanta/Vanta LT]
                vendor: nVidia Corporation
                physical id: 0
                bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
                version: 15
                width: 32 bits
                clock: 66MHz
                capabilities: pm agp agp-2.0 vga_controller bus_master cap_list
                configuration: driver=nvidia latency=248 maxlatency=1 mingnt=5 module=nvidia


im only getting 800 x 600

tried envy,didnt work, and the restricted drivers neither, ever since upgrading to hardy.

please.

This is my xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
*************************

please,  

Im DEsperate

---

### Post by RichardLinx on 2008-12-29
It might also help to post up your problem in plain English. :) Judging from what you posted though I'd chance a guess that you have a Nvidia graphics card? If you do It could just be that you don't have the correct graphics drivers installed.

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2008-12-29
Summary of [previous post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3793051#post379305")

By Qwerty
Make sure that you have all of the repositories selected as well. Otherwise you wont be able to install the restricted drivers.

System>Administration>Software Sources.

by Partyboi2
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

My added info
You may also need to install "linux-restricted-modules-2.6.22-14-generic" (sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-2.6.22-14-generic)

When you have completed all tasks restart the computer. On reboot you should see the Nvidia splash screen. (If you don't, you probably will still have a problem)

Now go to: System > Administration > Screens and Graphics. Under the "Graphics Card" tab select Nvidia. Under the "Screen" tab set your resolution and refresh rate. When you exit the you will be asked to log out. Log off then log on. Your resolution problem should be solved

---

### Post by gigaferz on 2008-12-29
Now go to: System > Administration > Screens and Graphics. Under the "Graphics Card" tab select Nvidia. Under the "Screen" tab set your resolution and refresh rate.

now that i didnt try. mhh,

is an old computer with an agp nvidia card.

Also i installed nvidia-settings, and there s no options  at all.

thank you.

ill try to get it done.

but what about this:

configuration: driver=nvidia latency=248 maxlatency=1 mingnt=5 module=nvidia

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2008-12-29
Sorry Looks like some things have changed since Hardy.

Once the Nvidia drivers are installed, go to System>>Administration>>Hardware drivers and make sure that the Nvidia driver is being used.

Then go to System>>Preferences>>Screen Resolution to set the resolution.

Don't know about this:

> **gigaferz said:**
> 
but what about this:

configuration: driver=nvidia latency=248 maxlatency=1 mingnt=5 module=nvidia

---

### Post by gigaferz on 2008-12-29
"Once the Nvidia drivers are installed, go to System>>Administration>>Hardware drivers and make sure that the Nvidia driver is being used"

this ive tried a couple of times.It is in use.

"Then go to System>>Preferences>>Screen Resolution to set the resolution."
 In here my max resolution is 800 x 600
 and i did enabled and disabled the hardware drivers and restarted, and nothing.

In my house i have a 9600gt working just fine, dont remember how exactly I pulled it off, but this is an ancient computer , originally had windows me.

When i did the sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg (actually i know it by heart and it was my first attemp)   in doesnt ask me anything about the screen. only about the keyboard.

Anybody that has tried that before it asks you for the adapter to be used vesa, etc...,screen size, the color depth 8,16,24 , refresh rate etc.

But when i tried that didnt happen.

Even my oldest trick for pretty much anything didnt work.(is to delete all the config files and the do a restart, hopefully any system or software will create config files again.)

So i do have  restricted drivers enabled, ive seen the whole process, downloading unpacking etc. But there are no options to further configure that adapter.

well thats it im open to any ideas,  i think i tried all the basic stuff.

a long time ago i had to blacklist a "driver" and then force the right one (for wireless) can i do the same here? if so  where could i find the right driver for this adapter?

---

