---
title: "13.10, unity, how do I access HandBrake?"
date: 2014-01-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-18
I installed HandBrake since I was doing a new install on new hardware.  Yea, it shows in the menu.   However, when I search for HandBrake or handbrake in nautilus it never shows a desktop file.  This is another one of those "worked in 13.04" thing - I just dragged from the menu to the deskop.  With 13.10, I had another post about this with LibreOffice, and someone posted how to find it's file to put on the desktop, and to look for other .desktop files.  Can't find one for HandBrake.  The menu shows a nice icon, etc., - how do I get this on my desktop??????   Please, no debate on the validity of a desktop with icons this time - just an answer please.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2014-01-18
Its desktop file is at */usr/share/applications/ghb.desktop*. Copy that file to your desktop folder.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-18
Thank You!!!! No wonder I couldn't find it - I never would have known it was ghb instead of handbrake or handbrake-gtk.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-01-19
I should probably ask as a follow-on something that will help me and hopefully help others:

Will all of my installed applications show under /usr/share/applications?  I think LibreOffice may have been an exception from a reply I got about it, but if that folder pretty much echoes what shows in Unity for installed applications, it makes my life much easier for finding these things in the future.

Thanks again!

---

