---
title: "10.04 to 11.04 questions"
date: 2011-06-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Proto Blaze on 2011-06-02
I use 10.04 and am about to obliterate my linux partitions and start fresh. I was wondering how 11.04 is doing. How are the speeds of it compared to what i have? what about compatibility? is it better? has driver support improved?

---

### Post by iansane on 2011-06-02
It's doing well on my PC. It was slow at first though because of the unity theme. Get ready for a big surprise and having to search around and find out how to open your apps.

I used login screen under system apps to set my default back to ubuntu classic and other than the menu disapearing twice today it was running good for a couple of weeks and I couldn't tell the difference.

Of course the menu dissapearing could have to do with some apps I installed since up until today it was a pretty clean fresh installation and was running good.

---

### Post by ebasa on 2011-06-02
IMHO stick with 10.04

---

### Post by Sven6210 on 2011-06-02
I did the upgrade from 10.04 to 11.04 10 days ago and did not regret it so far.  I actually reinstalled the system, I did not use the Synaptics upgrade function as I wanted to start with a clean machine.

For me 11.04 works very well and I start to get used to the new Unity interface.  In the beginning it takes some time but after a couple of days I really started to like it. I already prefer it to the old Gnome interface, all I am missing is the "Window-Picker-Applet" that I sued before.

Before you install 11.04 you should definitely make a backup of your system, I suggest CloneZilla. It allows to make a image copy to a USB disk and in case you do not like 11.04 you can easily restore the old system.

Good luck

Sven

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-03
> **Proto Blaze said:**
> I use 10.04 and am about to obliterate my linux partitions and start fresh. I was wondering how 11.04 is doing. How are the speeds of it compared to what i have? what about compatibility? is it better? has driver support improved?
Hi, I have been running natty since beta, I have it working great, but it is a little heavier on resources, so if your system is low on memory or cpu speed then you might want to stay with  10.04 Also if you need light resources and you ind you do not want to run unity just log in as ubuntu classic.

---

### Post by divyenduv on 2011-06-03
Yeap Porto.....wildmanne39 is right. If your system is low on memory and don't have proper configuration then its better to stay on 10.4.... but what i feel personally 11.04 have much to offer. Its just a begging !!!

---

