---
title: "64bit"
date: 2011-09-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mbandi on 2011-09-21
hey guys, i have a hp dv3 with 4gb ram 2.13ghz core2duo am thinkin of upgrading my current ubuntu linux 10.10 to 11.04 64bit. is the 64bit good for my machine or should i just upgrade to x86?

---

### Post by psrdotcom on 2011-09-21
You can go for 64-bit version .. No probs

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-09-21
You will not be able to "upgrade" to 64 bit;  you will have to make a clean install of the OS.

If you have a separate /home partition the data files in that will all be OK but some of the hidden configuration files and folders may cause problems with the new 64 bit system, so be prepared for that.

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-09-21
> **ajgreeny said:**
> You will not be able to "upgrade" to 64 bit;  you will have to make a clean install of the OS.

If you have a separate /home partition the data files in that will all be OK but some of the hidden configuration files and folders may cause problems with the new 64 bit system, so be prepared for that.

+1

Fresh install only.

However there is no reason IMO to not go x64 if your hardware supports it.
The main concern you are likely to run into if any will be Flash related, however that is easily solved using the [Flash-Aid]("https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/flash-aid/versions/") addon for firefox which will install and use the most appropriate for your system.

I run x64 and everything works fine.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-09-21
I've run 64-bit for years on my Core 2 Duo.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-09-21
Hi, I also have an older laptop duo core with 4 gigs and I have use nothing but 64 bit on it.
Thank you

---

