---
title: "Task in Gnome-schedule did not run"
date: 2011-12-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lile001 on 2011-12-31
How come scheduled tasks don't run? 

I have a nightly backup routine programmed into the Gnome Scheduler GUI interface for Cron.  I don't understand a damn thing about Cron or Crontabs, and given my thick head, reading about them has done little to change this sorry situation.  I am greatly thankful that Ubuntu includes some graphical interfaces so that, instead of using command line interfaces, which is like eating ice cream with hammer and tongs, I can use a spoon as God intended. 

I have, however, run some successful rsync backups using gnome-scheduler, logged in as myself instead of root.  I had some errors because I did not have rights to various files. I figured that I'd need to run the program as root to make this problem go away, and amazingly enough I was able to start Gnome-schedule as root, and program the same things into that. Quite proud of myself, I fixed a wonderful cup of tea to celebrate, since I had no idea how to do any of this a short time ago.  Same command line, ran as scheduled last night, should run tonight, no? 

This morning I check my backup drive, and new files created yesterday don't appear. 

Here is a little info to chew on:

The task is supposed to run at midnight every night, and the command line for the task is this
```
rsync -r -t -p -g -v --progress -c --partial -s /home /media/d7e36745-6bbc-4ba6-ada0-03a7d1a7f74c/RsyncBackup
``` which I believe will backup everything in /home for all users, at least that is what it tried to do when me (not root) was setting the task up to run.

There is some message about "Tasks will be run in the home directory" which I don't fully understand the implications of, when I finish creating the command in Gnome Scheduler.  Does the above line of gibberish work correctly when root is doing the task?

```
Note about working directory of executed tasks:

Recurrent tasks will be run from the home directory.
```

Just for fun I took a peek at the file "root" in var/spool/cron/crontabs:

```
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE - edit the master and reinstall.
# (/tmp/tmpQ1c3dz installed on Thu Dec 29 20:47:10 2011)
# (Cron version -- $Id: crontab.c,v 2.13 1994/01/17 03:20:37 vixie Exp $)
0 0 * * * rsync -r -t -p -g -v --progress -c --partial -s /home /media/d7e36745-6bbc-4ba6-ada0-03a7d1a7f74c/RsyncBackup # JOB_ID_1
0 0 * * * rsync -r -t -p -g -v --progress -c --partial -s /etc /media/d7e36745-6bbc-4ba6-ada0-03a7d1a7f74c/RsyncBackup # JOB_ID_2


```

Bear in mind that I haven't the slightest idea what any of this gibberish means, and was quite proud of myself for even finding out that such a file existed.  I do not understand cron well enough to set all this up via command line, and after reading about it, and coming away completely confused,  despair that I will ever do so.   Would there be any hints in this file that indicate why the task did not run?

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-12-31
Personally I would just put that rsync line (+sudo) into a bash script, drop the whole thing into /etc/cron/daily, mark as excutable and leave it at that. No need to make things overcomplicated.

So:
```

gksu gedit /etc/cron/daily/backup

```

Enter #!/bin/bash on the first line then paste in your rsync line with a sudo. Ctrl-S to save, then.
```

sudo chmod +x /etc/cron/daily/backup

```

To check that it runs alright you can force it to run:
```

./etc/cron/daily/backup

```

---

