---
title: "8.10 - Different Issues with both 64 bit and 32 bit Live CD"
date: 2008-11-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Senator82 on 2008-11-11
I am new to Ubuntu and Linux in general. I did give a try to Mandrake Linux back in about 2002 and liked it but I found myself not going in to it much due the ridiculous amount of games I played back then.

Fast foward to last night. I decided to download Ubuntu 8.10 and give the LiveCD a try to make sure all my hardware was compatible. Some odd things happened:

- (8.10 32 bit) Right after the Ubuntu splash screen with the progress bar, the screen just goes black. I think it is booting because when I pushed the power button it went to the Ubuntu shutdown screen. I tried to boot it using safe graphics and it loaded just fine but my network wouldn't work. It got an IP from my router just fine but the connection didn't work. 

- (8.10 64 bit) Everything loads fine without having to change to safe graphics but the same network problem as above happens.

Now I decided to try out 8.04 32 bit and everything just worked except I cannot use any desktop effects. I would like to be able to use the latest release.

My relevant specs:
Intel Core 2 Duo E8400
2GB RAM
Asus P5K-E MB
ATI Radeon 3850

Any help would be appreciated. I would like to switch to using Ubuntu for most uses and only booting into Windows for .NET development and gaming.

---

### Post by davideotape on 2008-11-11
First of all, I assume that you have a 64-bit processor. If that is the case, then I can see no real reason to use 32 bit ubuntu instead (unless some specific program you want isn't available in 64 bit)

Secondly, are you using a wireless connection or a wired conncection?

If wireless then it is probably the wireless adapter in you pc playing up. Try looking [here]("http://http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=966436") for any known bugs and their workarounds.

Hope that helps :)

---

### Post by Senator82 on 2008-11-11
It is the built in wired connection on my mobo.

Marvell 88E8056

Oh and I don't really know about the 64 bit version. Does it work as well as the 32 bit version? I remember hearing something about Flash not working or something on it?

---

### Post by davideotape on 2008-11-11
As far as I know, Ethernet connections should just come up automatically as auto eth0 on the networking icon on the taskbar. And as regards 64 and 32 bit, there should not be any major functionality differences between the two. If you have a 64 bit processor I would recommend 64 bit ubuntu, as it will ultilise your processor more.

---

### Post by Therion on 2008-11-11
The problems with Flash and Java, and what not, NOT working under 64-bit distros are history, really.  I've been using 64-bit distros for some time now without problems of any kind. I also find that 64bit distros give me a smoother overall computing experience.  It's a hard thing to define, but once you've gone 64-bit you'll never want to go back to 32-bit.

As for not being able to enable desktop effects, that's because you need to install an actual driver for your video card.  The LiveCD's use a generic "vesa" driver that doesn't support Compiz.  Once you have an actual install, and you upgrade to the proper driver, you should have no issues with getting all the desktop effects enabled.

As for your eth0 not showing up, I'm not sure what to tell you.  Sounds like an easy fix though (famous last words???).

---

### Post by Senator82 on 2008-11-11
eth0 shows up and even gets an IP from my router however it doesn't work. I cannot browse the internet or even ping a machine on my local network. It is weird that everything "just works" from 8.04 but it doesn't in 8.10.

I ran the Hardware Testing app from Ubuntu and when it got to the network test it failed and even forced an icon to appear on the top taskbar (sorry, not sure what to call these things in Linux) that said a crash has occured.

---

### Post by Therion on 2008-11-11
> **Senator82 said:**
> 

It is weird that everything "just works" from 8.04 but it doesn't in 8.10.
You wouldn't be the first person to say that.  

Personally I tried 8.10 and found that 8.04 just works better for me all the way around.  It's far snappier and seems less buggy.  I'll be sticking with it for another few months; at which time I might take another look at Intrepid.

---

### Post by Senator82 on 2008-11-11
Guess I will just use 8.04. Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by Therion on 2008-11-11
> **Senator82 said:**
> Guess I will just use 8.04. Thanks for the help.
Sorry I don't have a better answer for you but that's the way these things pan out sometimes.  You could try to work through/around your issues with Intrepid if you wish - I certainly wouldn't blame you for trying - but in my, albeit very limited personal experience, if I start having "issues" right from the get-go with a fresh install like I did with Intrepid, it's a very big red-flag.  In those instances I usually find myself beating my head against a wall for about as long as I wish to.  If Hardy works for you my suggestion would be for you to go with it.  

But that's just MY opinion.

---

### Post by Senator82 on 2008-11-11
I tend to like the latest and greatest but due to my limited experience with Linux (read: none), I will just use 8.04 and mess around with 8.10 if I am feeling experimental sometime.

---

