---
title: ".folder in home and new installs"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by methodmarvel on 2008-11-07
If I copy my home to another system including all of my hidden folders for programs eg .mozilla will my preferences be copied across? Will I need to restart the programs on that new system? Does this ever go wrong eg firefox 2 and 3 preferences not being compatible?

I've always been semi-aware of this functionality and have never really tired it. I've been just installing a new Ubuntu version from CD and having to setup all of my preferences in each program again.

---

### Post by Liviu-Theodor on 2008-11-07
I think you should have the same user ID on both machines. See [FONT="Courier New"]System->Administration->Users and Groups[/FONT].

---

### Post by methodmarvel on 2008-11-07
> **Liviu-Theodor said:**
> I think you should have the same user ID on both machines. See [FONT="Courier New"]System->Administration->Users and Groups[/FONT].
so it wont work if I copy the .folders to a differently named profile?

/home/jone/**.folders** **to** /home/phil/**.folders**

---

### Post by louieb on 2008-11-07
> **methodmarvel said:**
> so it wont work if I copy the .folders to a differently named profile?

/home/jone/**.folders** **to** /home/phil/**.folders**

Be sure to be phil when you copy them. That way phil will own the copy.

---

### Post by methodmarvel on 2008-11-07
> **louieb said:**
> Be sure to be phil when you copy them. That way phil will own the copy.
They'll go to an external hard drive first

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-11-07
> **methodmarvel said:**
> They'll go to an external hard drive first

I did this a while back and I had to chown and chmod after the install. Easy to do after the event. The file the really needs nailing is .dmrc

After you sorted your new home directory out and done the chown etc then this needs to be done in this order.
```
chmod 700 /home/user
chmod 644 /home/user/.dmrc

```
**Note** sudo does not need to be used.

---

