---
title: "8.06 - lag spikes in game (Warsow)"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by suprfish on 2008-04-26
Seem to have random (but frequent) lag spikes while playing online. Didn't used to happen (7.10), just upgraded this Friday. Any new addition to Ubuntu that would be causing this?

Thanks

P.S. - I am pretty sure that it is a network issue (ping shoots up).

---

### Post by suprfish on 2008-04-26
(bump)

---

### Post by suprfish on 2008-04-26
(bump)

I don't think that this is a warsow problem, as I never had it before. Are there any utilities that I can use to track network usage?

---

### Post by kbless7 on 2008-04-26
Is firefox the only thing lagging?

Btw its 8.04

---

### Post by suprfish on 2008-04-26
> **kbless7 said:**
> Is firefox the only thing lagging?

Btw its 8.04

actually warsow is an fps like quake, and by lagging I mean the frames-per-second drops dramatically and my in-game ping shoots up. It is not a graphics issue, nor an issue with the game server. I have tried closing all open applications, but it still happens. 

What I suspect is that there is some background process that connects to the web and is causing the lag. It would have to have been added in 8.04 because I did not experience the lag before. Any ideas, anyone?

---

### Post by suprfish on 2008-04-26
(bump)

Any ideas? Are there at least any utilities I could at least use to see what us being sent in/out?

---

### Post by kavon89 on 2008-04-27
If you want to monitor your network in/out, you probably want to check out ntop

[http://www.ntop.org/overview.html](http://www.ntop.org/overview.html)

You should be able to download it from the repositories.

---

### Post by colorblind on 2008-07-17
I'm having the exact same problem: lag spikes in Warsow under Ubuntu every 2 minutes or so. It has to be network related, because when playing locally with some bots it doesn't occur.
Have you been able to fix the problem?

---

### Post by dglkn on 2008-07-19
bump

---

### Post by javyn999 on 2009-05-02
bump

---

