---
title: "nc6000/ati9600"
date: 2008-07-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gs 059 on 2008-07-10
I have been looking around for the past few days using google and this forum, but I still have not be able to find a real solution, some people have guides which do not work most of the time at all, and some tell me I have to re-compile some kernel stuff, which I do not know how to do at all since I have only been running this 8.04 since yesterday.

the problem is the ati 9600 gfx card. I can do everything except for 3d. I mainly want to be able to play Anarchy-Online, but I have gotten as far as a blank screen in windowed mode, and in full screen is looks like I have the entire screen smushed to one side and than smushed back on the other side with a blocky thing down the middle. this is also the same for starcraft.

also, is can Ubuntu support 32bit gfx since I just read that is is default at 24.

---

### Post by SpinDizzyMR on 2008-07-10
Hi gs 059, 

Ubuntu does run in 24 bit colour yes, however so does Windows. 

32 bit colour under windows is just Microsoft Spin for 24 bit with the 8 bit alpha.  They just added the numbers.  Ubuntu is just as capable and calls it 24 bit colour because thats what it really is and Ubuntu calls a spoon a spoon.  

You haven't provided enough information to tell whether your graphics drivers are setup right.  The default graphics driver in ubuntu is called vesa and does not support 3d acceleration.

I don't know how savvy you are with Ubuntu or what you know, so...

If you look under System > Administration > Hardware drivers and see a working propriety ATI driver enabled. 

Or 

You type fglrxinfo into terminal and it brings back graphics info containing the right info like "ATI" etc...  

Then your graphics is setup correctly.

If it isn't, this is about the best guide going. 

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide) 

Although I think that tut can make it look more complicated then it is. 

If you download the Linux run pack off the official ati site, you just need to **CD /directory/** to whereever it is and **sudo sh "drivername.run" --buildpkg ubuntu/hardy**.  (The ati driver names are long and annoying to type, but after a few letters in, pressing TAB should autocomplete it).  Then it should extract a .deb file in the same directory to where you had the .run file, and deb files are executable and you can just double click and install that way I find, seems to do everything including writing fglrx to xorg.conf.

---

### Post by gs 059 on 2008-07-10
yes, I used that website to set up my drivers. and when I followed the instructions everything that is 2d is working great.

---

### Post by gs 059 on 2008-07-10
by ^^ I meant that the 2d is still working just normaly and that the site you listed was the one I used, 3d still does not work. what other information do you need?

---

