---
title: "12.10 new installation old video card"
date: 2013-03-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by enj on 2013-03-13
[COLOR=#000000]System Details: ubuntu 12.10 Mem 3.7 Gib Processor Intel Xeon CPU 3.06GHz x 2 
GRAPHICS: **VESA: NV36 Board - p192-0o** OS: 32 bit Disk 90.0 GB... as least it sees a Graphics card now...!!!

I've got 12.10 running with "nomodeset" in GRUB... 
Desktop is slow... I'm thinking - old video card - and trying to run in 3D...

How do I change it to run in 2D...?

Thanks
Ed[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-03-13
enj; Hi !

To directly answer your question, 2d is selectable at the GUI login. There is an "iconic" ubuntu button in the window's upper right. Click on it for the selection.

Be advised that ubuntu later versions are resource hungry, and may run very laggy on that processor.These later versions require that the cpu support "pae" , "sse" and "sse2" capabilities that the Xeon cpu may not support. It is a recommendation to try lighter versions such as lubuntu, for a better experience, in that event.[INDENT=4]hope this helps

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by plucky on 2013-03-13
12.10 will not run in 2D.

The last Ubuntu release that has a button to select 2D is 12.04.2.

You should try Xubuntu or install 12.04.2


Good Luck

---

### Post by enj on 2013-03-13
Before Logging In, my upper right has several icons... 
one is the Man (dropdown provides: Onscreen Keyboard, High Contrast & Screen reader)
the next Icon is a keyboard, then up/down arrows, then speaker, then time, the Login...
after logging in the Man goes away...

What am I missing, I don't see anything giving me any other options...

Thanks for your input...
Ed

---

### Post by enj on 2013-03-13
Thanks for the input...
Ed

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-03-13
This > **VESA: NV36 Board - p192-0o** suggests to me that you are using the open source Nouveau driver. Have you tried activating a proprietary video driver. In 12.10 we go to System Settings>Software Sources>Additional Drivers tab.

As has been previously pointed out Ubuntu Unity 2D is not available from 12.10 onwards. Another method is in place so that the user gets the 3D experience on low specified graphic cards. When using nomodeset the OS does not detect the monitor optimum mode from the monitor. This may get us to a desktop top and it allows us to select a video driver from Additional Drivers. Your processor should be fast enough and the amount of RAM is more than sufficient, you should not need 2D or a lighter desktop.

As regards selecting another desktop - at the login screen there is a panel where we enter our password. Above the space where we enter the password we should see a Ubuntu icon. Click on it an we see a list of installed desktops to choose from. That is if we have installed another desktop. 

When we install 12.04 the installer will determine if we can run Unity 3D. If that is so, then the installer will not install Unity 2D. If we cannot run Unity 3D we get Unity 2D by default. In 12.04 and Unity 3D we can install Unity 2D as well. So, we have a choice of 3D and 2D at the log in screen. But we cannot install Unity 2D in 12.10. The libraries are just not in the repositories. We can still install some other desktop if we want.

Regards.

---

### Post by enj on 2013-03-14
Thanks for all the input...
The proprietary driver failed to display the desktop...
So I've gone to eBay and bought a bit better video card that hopefully will solve the problem...
Thanks again...
Ed

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-03-14
enj; That is a great solution !

When I upgrade my better half's machine from 10.04 I will have to do the same ( she says I'll pry 10.04 out of her cold dead fingers !)
[INDENT=3]
Good Luck

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by bogan on 2013-03-15
Hi!, **grahammechanical,**

I am a bit puzzled by your Post #6.

I am running 12.10,3.5.0.26-generic in 2D on an old Dell Inspiron. as Nouveau reports it does not have a card that supports 3D.

Install 'gnome-session-fallback', either from apt-get or Ubuntu Software Center and you get the options for 'Gnome Classic' or Gnome Classic (no effects) as well as the 3D Ubuntu option, in the log-in drop-down menu.

I gather that it was proposed to no longer permit the 'fallback-session' in 12.10, but the decision was rescinded; it remains to be seen if that will hold good when 13.04 is released.

Incidentally,'echo $DESKTOP_SESSION' shows: "gnome-fallback", not "2D".

Chao!, **bogan.**

---

