---
title: "10.04 seems to have killed VMware Player..."
date: 2010-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by SlappyPappy on 2010-05-01
I did the upgrade and so far the only thing that seems to be not working is VMware Player.

I also just noticed that notification area has turned into a white block on my panel at the top.

Other than that not too much to report.

Hmmmm. Have to figure out this VMware Player thing before I need to do any actual work in Windows.

I kind of like the new look.

Any thoughts on VMware Player, greatly appreciated and I hope your upgrade goes as well as mine.... :P

---

### Post by jvc26 on 2010-05-01
Do you get a stack of errors coming out when you run VMWare player from the terminal?

Applications->Accessories->Terminal

Then type

```
vmware-player
``` 

(or whatever the name of the app is) and just see whether you get some errors out there which may be helpful.

J

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2010-05-01
HI SlappyPappy

A kernel install from your upgrade can break a VM, reinstall your VM should solve your problem. 
Your VMs setting and config will be picked back up when you reinstall VM.

Sharky

---

### Post by SlappyPappy on 2010-05-01
Thanks for the info guys. I tried to patch VMware Player but could not get it to go.

I installed VMware Workstation 7.01 and it cleared everything right up.

I even installed OS X Snow Leopard today just for fun.

So far no problems with 10.04 to speak of. Just smooth sailing.

Very happy with the upgrade to 9.10 with 10.04 I'm pleased to report.

:guitar::guitar::guitar:

---

