---
title: "Graphics Card installation"
date: 2008-07-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Bloch on 2008-07-03
I am trying to install a Nvidia FX2500 card, which by all accounts should work.

In recovery mode everything booted, though I was faced with an option to continue the boot or repair the xserver. I chose repair and then it booted. I clicked "Hardware Drivers" and installed the Nvidia drivers.

When I reboot however into normal mode the boot stops and I don't get into the GUI. The boot screen lists some init scripts then freezes and goes blank.

I can ctrl-alt F1 and login to the command line. I ran  
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
and reboot, still no joy.

Running startx results in the error message:
Fatal Srrver Error
Server is already active for display 0. If this server is no longer running ...


Any ideas on what I can do?

---

### Post by avtolle on 2008-07-03
See [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XORGHardy](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XORGHardy) for a discussion of the new xorg in 8.04, which may also help you out with your driver problems.

---

### Post by Bloch on 2008-07-03
I am not sure why things work in recovery mode yet not in normal mode.
I thought changes made in recovery mode were stored and used in normal mode?

My problem is not perhaps the Nvidia drivers, as the display is working fine in recovery mode with the drivers not enabled.

Something is stopping xserver from starting in normal mode. Recovery mode gave me an option to repair it, but normal mode freezes.

Here is my xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"pl"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by Bloch on 2008-07-03
Got it starting in normla mode, but whenever I enable the nvidia driver via "Hardware Drivers" it hangs on reboot at the  stage
* running local boot scripts (/etc/rc.local)

Then I have to boot into recovery, choose the xfix option, and reboot.

---

