---
title: "Trouble Installing Ubuntu over Windows from USB"
date: 2015-09-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rob146 on 2015-09-02
Hi guys, I'm a computer science major, previously used a MacBook Pro for all coding and such, but just got a windows desktop, and want to install Linux instead of windows.  Thanks in advance for your help.

My Goal:
Replace my windows OS with Ubuntu 14.04 or 15.04

What I've done so far:
- DL'd 15.04 & 14.04
- made a USB copy of both (1 at a time, currently with 14.04) OS's using Linux Live USB creator
- used virtual box to open the OS's; they both booted flawlessly through VB
- rebooted, chose the `try before install' and `install' options, both ended in a terminal rapidly going through checks, turning the screen off (not the computer itself), and not turning back on.

NOTE: I originally tried to create the USB with a persistent mode, and then I tried creating the USB for Live Mode only.  Neither configuration worked.
NOTE: I cannot read what the terminal prints out at the end (the presumable error message), because the screen immediately turns off.

Computer Specs (wayyyy more than enough to install Linux, I believe):
64-bit Intel processor
16gb RAM
256gb SSD
Gigabyte Motherboard
USB 3.0 ports

My Questions:
What am I doing wrong?  Do I need to configure something else that I don't know about?  Is this a common noob error?

---

### Post by Geoffrey_Arndt on 2015-09-02
Your system is plenty capable of running any Linux distro . . . BUT . . . what is the graphics system?   Is it using nvidia, ati, etc.?    99.5% of the time if your system is running Intel graphics, no problems at all with a full graphical install to reboot to login.

So, to solve, you may need to boot with the "nomodeset" parameter.   

Here's a paste from my Zim wiki database . . source info are these buntu forums:

To  boot with the 'nomodeset' boot parameter. 
   1).   For a PC with no other operating system - the Grub2 menu will NOT be displayed by default, so:
>     Hold down (right) SHIFT to display the menu during boot. In certain cases, pressing the ESC key may also display the menu.  
   If you are able to boot with this parameter, you can install a graphics driver from the "Additional Drivers" utility in the actual install. 
   [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132) <- How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 
   [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions) <-nomodeset option in detail 
   let us know how it goes
THE current(cy) in Documentation: 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PopularPages](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PopularPages)

*****************************************************************************

add your custom boot options to the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT line, so for instance:

 	Code:
 	GRUB_DEFAULT=0
#GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true
GRUB_TIMEOUT=10
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`
**GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nomodeset"**
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""

---

### Post by rob146 on 2015-09-03
Geoffrey,

Unfortunately, nomodeset did not work.  I tried pressing f4 because I have an nvidia 970 gtx graphics card, but there was no option to install that driver. To be clear, I don't get into any part of the installation itself.  I select the try or install option, and the screen shuts off.  Everything that I alter must happen before I choose a path

 Ignore that last part. I was able to install, but now when I restart, I get the screen turning off and such.  The permanent addition of adding nomodeset does not work because the grub command line does not recognize gksudo or gedit as commands.  Is there any way to fix that?  Now even when I boot with the temporary fix, it doesn't work. 

- Rob

---

### Post by Double.J on 2015-09-03
Hi rob,
were you able to set the nomodeset flag?

It is interesting as you have two different downloads which limit the chance of a download error and nomodeset would rule out a graphics driver issue. 
I suppose the next steps would be to confirm the download is error free:
Get the sha256sum for [15.04]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/15.04/SHA256SUMS") or [14.04]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/14.04/SHA256SUMS") and check against the sum generated by [quick hash]("http://sourceforge.net/projects/quickhash/files/v2.6.2-Windows/QuickHash-v2.6.2-Windows.zip/download") on windows.
.
It may also be worth trying to create the media by a different USB creater tool such as [LiLi]("http://www.linuxliveusb.com/en/download").
Final options may be to try removing the graphics card and install from integrated graphics and add the driver after install, or to use the [alternate installation media]("http://www.ubuntu.com/download/alternative-downloads"). This uses an ncurses installer rather than a GUI so should overcome the issue.

JJ

---

### Post by rob146 on 2015-09-03
J,

I was just successful with installing Ubuntu.  However, on reboot, the computer boots into a turned off screen.  Even when I do the temporary fix with grub2, it leaves me with a blank purple screen.  Is there any way to fix this?

- Rob

---

