---
title: "Setting static DNS in Lubuntu?"
date: 2015-04-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by joe163 on 2015-04-08
I am having trouble setting static DNS in lubuntu.  I have tried changing ```
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Lora]/etc/network/interfaces[/FONT][/COLOR]
``` to:

```
auto eth0
  iface eth0 inet static
  address 192.168.0.150
  netmask 255.255.255.0
  gateway 192.168.0.1
  network 192.168.0.0
  broadcast 192.168.0.255
  dns-nameservers 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4
```

and restarting networking.

I have also tried changing DNS in Network Settings but it doesn't save.

I am using lubuntu 14.04

Thanks.

---

### Post by michi1983 on 2015-04-08
So how do you verify that it doesn't work?

What Ubuntu version do you run?

Can you please post the output of ```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by nerdtron on 2015-04-08
Yup. So how do you verify that it doesn't work?? Also did you try to reboot after making changes (just to be sure)? 

Also, if you have a GUI and you have the network manager applet, don't edit the /etc/network/interfaces file. These two doesn't control each other so it can cause problems if you edit them both.

---

### Post by joe163 on 2015-04-08
This is one way that I checked:  
```
fr0sti3@fr0sti3:~$ nmcli dev list iface wlan0 | grep IP4
IP4.ADDRESS[1]:                         ip = 192.168.1.11/24, gw = 192.168.1.1
IP4.DNS[1]:                             213.57.2.5
IP4.DNS[2]:                             213.57.22.5

```
The second way that I checked was simply going back to Network Settings GUI.  For some reason it is not saving my changes or I am unsure how to save.

I tried to change it once again.  Locked it after changing it, then  rebooted.  It didn't save.

```
fr0sti3@fr0sti3:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1

```

---

### Post by joe163 on 2015-04-08
Lubuntu 14.04

---

### Post by michi1983 on 2015-04-08
well in your first post you write about eth0 and now you post the result of wlan0.
your wlan0 is receiving its IP address and its dns addresses from a DHCP server (router?) I guess

---

### Post by joe163 on 2015-04-08
The eth0 was a typo.  In ifconfig I see an eth0 which doesn't have any traffic, a lo and wlan0 that are receiving and transmitting traffic.  In the first post, I tried for lo and for wlan0.  Changing it for wlan0 did my networking in.  Changing it for lo, then I wasn't able to tell what DNS server was being used with [COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]nmcli dev list iface lo | grep IP4

I guess it's receiving it from the router???

So, how do I set a static DNS on my computer?

Oh, there's also a tun0 now in ifconfig for some reason which is also sending and receiving traffic.  From my OpenVPN perhaps?


[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by michi1983 on 2015-04-08
> **joe163 said:**
> [COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono] From my OpenVPN perhaps?[/FONT][/COLOR]
yes, it's from your OpenVPN


So, if you are also using the network-manager GUI too that might be the problem and they seem to interfere.
You should either use the network-manager OR use the /etc/network/interfaces file.

So if you wanna stick to the network-manager GUI, change the wlan0 part of your /etc/network/interfaces file to
```
auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
```

If you want to use the /etc/networking/interfaces file instead of the network-manager, I would just uninstall it.

Edit:// if you can do it by yourself, I suggest you move this thread over to [Networking & Wireless]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=336"). It fits better there.

---

### Post by joe163 on 2015-04-08
actually, I set /etc/network/interfaces back to what it was before, before I started trying with the network-manager gui.  Before I try what you suggested, I just want to show you what is in my /etc/network/interfaces before changing it:

```
# interfaces(5) file used by ifup(8) and ifdown(8)
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
```

So knowing that, is it safe for me to change it to what you suggested?

---

### Post by michi1983 on 2015-04-08
just add
```

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp

```
to what is in your /etc/network/interfaces
and do a ```
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```
after that you will receive your IP, gateway and dns from your ISP router(dhcp server).

But if you want to handle ALL your network adapters with this file I suggest to uninstall the network-manager at all because the risk is high that they will interfere. That's up to you.

Oh yeah, and leave the tun0 part in there too, otherwise the OpenVPN won't work anymore.

edit: it's OT but why do you want the Google DNS instead of the ones from your ISP?

---

### Post by joe163 on 2015-04-08
A VPN app from **** is connecting just fine but no web traffic gets through.  So on live support over there, they recommended setting up a static DNS.

btw, what do you mean by leaving in tun0?  How would I add that in?

---

### Post by michi1983 on 2015-04-08
is your tun0 adapter in the /etc/network/interfaces file when openvpn is not connected? if yes then you should of course leave it there.

you also have a static dns when you get it by DHCP.
if your web traffic doesn't get routed through the openbpn tunnel, it's a server config in my opinion. a push route or/and push redirect gateway or something like that. but we would need to see the openvpn server config to see what's wrong. I tell you it has nothing to do with your dns though.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-04-09
One solution is to configure the DHCP settings in your router to give you those DNS server addresses.

The GUI Network Manager also has entries to specify DNS servers.  Did you try that?  You would need to modify the settings for wlan0.

---

