---
title: "10.10 LXDE - installed Nautilus but no icon"
date: 2012-07-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by I2k4 on 2012-07-02
I have a good install of Lubuntu 10.10 LXDE on my little netbook - I want to replace PCManFM with Nautilus.  I installed Nautilus via Synaptic PM but could not find an icon for it in main Menu.  

If I type "Nautilus" in the Run command dialog, it starts right up and shows all my directories and seems to work fine in every way.  

I can find Nautilus in 

/usr/share/applications/

and can start it from there.  I've also noticed there are two "File Manager" icons in that directory, one of them launches Nautilus and the other launches PCManFM. _ I can't figure out any settings to get an icon for Nautilus to show up in the main Menu and hopefully to add to the Application Launch Bar instead of PCManFM. _

(I don't keep any icons on my desktop and only use the Menu or panel Launch Bar to start programs.)  Thanks for help.

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2012-07-02
I quick search on googlubuntu revealed an old thread but I'm not sure if it is what you want.  Check it and see.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1328497](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1328497)

Additional research found this:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DefaultFileManager](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DefaultFileManager)

---

### Post by I2k4 on 2012-07-02
Thanks for the quick reply - both threads appear to be about systems with Gnome installed, which I don't have - only LXDE, which I'm quite happy with.  

The first guy simply uninstalls PCManFM, which I'd be reluctant to do on the "First Do No Harm" principle. The second seems to do with using or not using Nautilus, within Gnome. I wouldn't install another desktop just to use Nautilus.

As I wrote, I have installed and can successfully _run_ Nautilus from the Run command or from down in the Applications directory.  Seems there must be some way to get an ordinary icon for it into the main Menu or panel Launch Bar, or to convert the current PCManFM "File Manager" icon to launch Nautilus instead (?)

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2012-07-02
Unless I read it wrong (which is highly possible) in the second site, there is a section that deals with manually changing the default file manager.  The the little file icon will be Nautilus and not PCMan.  You can change it for just you or you can change it system wide.  You are then not un-installing, just not using PCMan.

---

### Post by I2k4 on 2012-07-02
Thanks again.  I tried the simple "mousemonkey" fix but the Preferences / Utilities dialog didn't include choice of file manager.  

I have fixed it though - I noticed that the _File Manager shortcut in the Main Menu / Accessories could be right-clicked for Properties and simply changing the Command from pcmanfm %U to nautilus %U reroutes the shortcut to Nautilus._  

I then was able to replace the original File Manager shortcut in the panel Launch Bar with the modified one.  Bingo - it opens Nautilus.  Hope this helps another user.  Anyway, solved.

---

### Post by I2k4 on 2012-07-19
Update:  Just discovered Alacarte aka "Main Menu" app for modifying the main menu, and sure enough the Nautilus shortcut can be activated with it.  Seems to be the best way to modify the Lubuntu Menu.

---

