---
title: "10.04 Manual"
date: 2014-04-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by robert1305-gmail on 2014-04-24
I have a 700 page manual for Ubuntu Linux fully revised and updated for 10.04.

Will the basics in this be OK for 14.04 ?

I have the problem of undergoing hospital treatment that amongst other things affects the memory, and in my case rather severely, and having just had to reinstall 14.04 for the second time in a week I dont want to let it stop me from getting 14.04 working the way I had the other distros set up for my personal use.

What I would like some help with, at this moment in time, is how do I set up 14.04 to give me the choice at start up to chose between Unity and Gnome, and have administration rights in both.

Hope this makes sense.

Regards Bob

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-04-24
The graphical user interface of 14.04 is completely different from the one in 10.04. 10.04 had Gnome2, 14.04 has Unity (build on Gnome3). Along with that the mechanisms for configuring the desktop and the set of default applications have changed. The applications that have not been replaced have at least (well, most of them) been upgraded to more recent versions, but these changes are not so drastic that a 4 year old manual has turned useless.

On the other hand, some parts have remained the same. The system that lies underneath the GUI, that is the file system, the command line, scripting, permissions etc. has remained largely the same. How useful that is to you depends on how you use your computer.

So, most of the low-level basics are still the same, but your manual won't help you much navigating or configuring the GUI.

I'm not sure about the available desktop environments in 14.04. You can install more than one of them and at login you can choose which one to use. You'll always have admin rights in all of them.

---

### Post by david98 on 2014-04-24
Yes almost all the terminal commands will be the same and as for desktops once installed you just chose which desktop environment you want to log into from log in and you will be administrator.

---

