---
title: "(14.04 gnome dsktp) nicotine not downloading with i click for folder/files"
date: 2014-08-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gnowair on 2014-08-28
i installed nicotine+ (version  nicotine 1.2.16+dfsg-1) recently,and even before i got the hang of properly opening ports so i always get "connections open" in the tests in "server"in settings/config, it worked a treat, though like soulseek itself,tended to freeze a bit when search results come in.

(incase it helped cause the issue) yesterday i had issues with XFCE desktop not loading and instead getting a dark blue/grey screen,and though it took a while, i eventually got via "start ubuntu normally/failsafe/memory test, options, and eventually got it to load desktop envirnment option.
and since then have been trying gnome. ( and i wouldnt know) something changed there thats caused the current issues with nicotine+?

however, post-search freezing being a common nicotine/soulseek issue, the MAIN issue for me is that when i type in a search query, enter it, and the results show (freezing inevitably happens),get past the freezing, and click on to highlight the result i desire, it may begin downloading, but if nicotine+ has been running for more than 4 or 5 minutes, no downloaded file or folder appears in my download tab, and indeed dosnt download at all.

at first it wouldnt happen for a good whileafter nicotine+ first loaded. whereas now it happens within minutes, or sometimes straight away. it's getting worse.

other possible factors may be, though i wouldnt again,see why, is that i was using a 500gb external memory device. but that broke yesterday, so had to reconfigure share,download,and incomplete folders for nicotine. this is actually when the not-being-able-to-download problem APPEARED to begin.<br>

(although thinking about it,my firefox browser downloader didnt bring me all the files i asked of it last night!

earlier this evening i tried uninstall and re-install, but it was as if i hadnt!

please feel free to suggest any "spec" or system info i could supply that may help the matter.
and fingers crossed it's an issue i can fix, and not a major flaw in nicotine+ (there are others it's happening to, but no fixes yet.)


maybe too much info? but keen to fix it.
thank you all kindly whoever reads,and to all who reply.

---

