---
title: "low resolution and nvidia nightmare"
date: 2008-05-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by KnavishClout on 2008-05-26
Hello all.  I just installed the 64 bit Ubuntu on my pc to replace the 32 bit , just to see the difference.  Everything was running fine until I tried to run a program called "Elisa" which is a media center app.  I got an error message about my system not supporting 3D or something.  So I set out to install the latest NVIDIA drivers from the NVIDIA website.  When I tried to install them I got the error message "you appear to be running an x server.  please exit the x server before installing".

What followed was a three hour long nightmare of googling and forum searching.  In the end, I think I may have gotten the drivers installed, because Elisa now works.  My resolution, however, will only go up to 640 x 480 when approached from System>Prefrences>Screen Resolution.

In other threads that I've read, people have asked to see these sections of the xorg.conf file, so I'll post them here.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	640	480
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce 8 Series"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"



[SIZE="5"]Any help wold be greatly appreciated![/SIZE]

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-05-26
Try this.

gksu displayconfig-gtk

---

### Post by KnavishClout on 2008-05-26
Unfortunately, your advice didn't work friend.  

The good news is that I seem to have fixed the problem by throwing caution to the wind and editing the xorg.conf file and changing where it said "640x480" to "1280x1024" (my monitor's max resolution).  Then all the options up to 1280x1024 became available.

The refresh rate was automatically set too.

Does anybody know of a reason why I should not consider this problem solved?  Are there any unapparent side effects to what I've done?

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2008-05-26
> **KnavishClout said:**
> Does anybody know of a reason why I should not consider this problem solved?  Are there any unapparent side effects to what I've done?
No. The basic premise of the Device section for grapics driver in the xorg file is to list the max resolution that your system (monitor and graphics card) can support.

You should be good to go

---

