---
title: "12.04 Need to reset root password, can't enter GRUB to do so"
date: 2013-10-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dan43 on 2013-10-02
Hi all!
I'm brand new to Ubuntu and was given this machine by a friend who no longer remembers Root password. I just want to install a few things but get prompted to authenticate with a password I don't know. I'm told I can reset the password using GRUB, but when I try to enter it just says 'Loading GRUB', then goes straight into booting Ubuntu instead of GRUB. I found out this may be due to timeout values being set to 0, and to change it to a positivie value like 10 in order to get in. I guess I'm supposed to use | gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub | in the terminal in order to be able to change that, but of course It requires the password I don't have. This is frustrating . Can anyone tell me if there's a way out of this vicous cycle?

---

### Post by whitesmith on 2013-10-02
Hi **dan43** and welcome to the forum! This is the standard solution to your predicament: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LostPassword](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LostPassword)

---

### Post by dan43 on 2013-10-02
All of those methods require GRUB though, which will not load for me.
It'll say "loading grub" then just boot into Ubuntu instead. :/

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-10-02
No Grub required.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCdRecovery](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCdRecovery)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-10-02
Grub is a boot loader. We do not need a password to allow Grub to load an OS. If we only have one OS on the machine then the Grub boot menu will not appear unless we hold down the shift key. We can even set Ubuntu to load to the desktop without giving a login screen (this is for convenience) but once we are at the desktop and we try to make certain changes we are asked to authenticate (give our password). Ubuntu would not be a very secure operating system is anyone could change the password without proving they have the authority to change it by putting in the existing password.

It may be possible to do this but I do not think such information should be supplied in an open forum. For security reasons. Why don't you re-install and then set your own password? After all, there can be no information or data on this machine leftover from your friend that you would be interested in accessing or preserving. Further more, it is not as if you need to buy a license to install and use Ubuntu like we do with some other operating systems.

Regards.

---

### Post by dan43 on 2013-10-02
Thank You. Ima give this a shot. Im hoping Ubuntu has a Virtual CD-drive built in like Win 8, since I have no CD burner these days. Hoping to run it off of a flash-drive.

---

### Post by dan43 on 2013-10-02
The friend has nothing on the machine. It's an OLD Dell inspiron he formatted then loaded Ubuntu onto, then left sitting around until I got it. I'm hoping to just use it to play movies for the kids. In the long run I want VLC and some way to stream netflix on there. Will probably re-install this weekend if deadflowr's solution doesn't work for me.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-10-02
... how old is old? older versions of grub used Esc not Shift as the interrupt key - try that

---

### Post by dan43 on 2013-10-02
Hi. I tried both Esc and Shift. Shift is the one that gets me to the "Loading GRUB" screen, but then it skips Grub into Ubuntu

---

