---
title: "noobie help with screen res"
date: 2009-01-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by barrieg on 2009-01-04
Hi - I installed 8.10 on my PC this afternoon, works fine apart from screen resolution - stuck at 800x600.

I went into System > Admin > Hardware Preferences and it said no proprietary drivers available.

I then did a bit of research and downloaded the envy_0.9.5-0ubuntu5_all.deb package and ran it. still no joy getting a higher resolution.

Tried rebooting, still nothing offered in System > Admin > Hardware preferences. 

Any advice? Do I need to do something with Synaptic Package manager? I have an NVIDIA RIVA TNT2 Model 64 graphics card with 32mb RAM.

- help much appreciated.

Happy New Year,

Barrie

---

### Post by northern lights on 2009-01-04
The latest nvidia Linux driver does not support this GPU anymore, the 96.43.XX legacy driver however does. Check [here]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/96.43.07/README/README.txt").

It's weird that it wouldn't be offered by the system, legacy drivers should also appear under "System > Administration > Hardware Drivers".

Anyhow, you can install it manually```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-96
```Reboot. Higher resolutions should be available.

Alternatively you could run```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```even that should give you higher resolutions, however without 3D acceleration.

---

### Post by barrieg on 2009-01-04
hi there - thx for that, will give it a go and let you know! 

Thx

Barrie

---

### Post by barrieg on 2009-01-04
Hi - tried you first suggestion, it downloaded a whole host of things that i can now see are installed when I go into the synaptics package manager e.g. nvidia-settings, nvidia-96-kernel-source, nvidia-glx96

but I still have a screen res of 800x600 and when i go to System > Admin > Hardware Drivers, it says 'no proprietary drivers are in use on this system'.

Am I trying to 'activate' them in the wrong place or with the wrong tool? 

Chrs

Barrie

---

### Post by barrieg on 2009-01-04
I have just noticeed that when I go into System > Admin there is a new menu option called NVIDIA X Server Settings. It says ' You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver, please edit your X configuration file (just run nvidia-config' as root) and restart the X server'

I will try this and let you know,

Rgds

Barrie

---

### Post by barrieg on 2009-01-04
... I got a message when I rebooted saying 'Ubuntu is running in low graphic mode (EE) Failed to load module type1 (module does not exist,0) (EE) No devices detected. 

I then pressed the OK button to continue loading the GUI. I got an option asking if I wanted to carry on running in low graphics mode, reconfigure or troubleshoot the error. I opted to cary on in low graphics just for this session. The system then appeared to reboot. GUI desktop came back up in 800x600 mode.

I checked the System > Hardware drivers (it searched for new ones but still displayed none).

I then went to System > Admin > NVIDIA X Server settings and got the same message as before ('you do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver ....)

---

### Post by northern lights on 2009-01-04
I wish *nvidia-xconfig* would still be installed and work with the new drivers, but it doesn't afaik. You can try running it, but I doubt it's installed. And if you try to install it, I fear it will remove *nvidia-glx-96*. You can certainly try, as you can do no further harm. Graphics-wise your system is as screwed as it can get.

Have you tried running```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

You could thereupon attempt to enable the nvidia driver manually, please post the output of```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```for further steps (watchout for case-sensitivity).

---

### Post by barrieg on 2009-01-04
ran the second suggested command, my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file now reads:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by barrieg on 2009-01-04
It would seem that certain NVIDIA garphics cards will not work with unbuntu 8.10.

Would my card work if i installed 8.04 instead? If not, can you recommend a graphics card that i could buy that will work with 8.10?

Chrs

Barrie

---

### Post by northern lights on 2009-01-04
You could first off try changing your xorg.conf manually to this```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

```Beforehand, back the original up```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_old
```and subsequently open xorg.conf as root (such that you can save it), run```
gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Alternatively, you could in addition add```
	DefaultDepth	24
	Option	"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
```to "Screen" section but I deem it not necessary.

> **barrieg said:**
> It would seem that certain NVIDIA garphics cards will not work with unbuntu 8.10.
Given that the Ubuntu repositories include the 96.43.05 version of the legacy driver and that nvidia documentation says the *TNT2 Model 64* is supported by any 96.43.XX, your card ought to work.

> **barrieg said:**
> can you recommend a graphics card that i could buy that will work with 8.10?
In general, nvidia products are the best GPU's when it comes to GNU/Linux support. Hence I'd always stick to nvidia. Even if your card would work, it might be a good idea to purchase a replacement if you want decent 3d acceleration. Even compiz will be troublesome on this device (let alone gaming, should you have an interest in that).

The most important recommendation I've made already - stick to nvidia.
Further, consider that your board does certainly not support PCIe, so you'd need an AGP card. Check what AGP multipliers your board supports.

Something like a GeForce4 or a GeForce FX 5200 should be available used for under 30 bucks.

[EDIT]
For instance, check
[this]("http://cgi.ebay.com/PNY-GeForce-4-AGP-TI4600-Video-Card-Nvidia_W0QQitemZ220339090469QQcmdZViewItemQQptZPCC_Video_TV_Cards?hash=item220339090469&_trksid=p3286.c0.m14&_trkparms=66%3A2|65%3A15|39%3A1|240%3A1318") or [that]("http://cgi.ebay.com/PNY-GEforce-FX5200-AGP-256mb-video-card_W0QQitemZ180317352187QQcmdZViewItemQQptZPCC_Video_TV_Cards?hash=item180317352187&_trksid=p3286.c0.m14&_trkparms=66%3A2|65%3A1|39%3A1|240%3A1318").
[/EDIT]

---

### Post by barrieg on 2009-01-05
Hi - thanks again for your help. Tried these but still no joy. It's an old PC that I was trying to breathe some new life into. I guess I need to buy a new graphics card and give it a go. You seem to indicate that NVIDA are the best bet, I'll try that. 

If nothing else it's got me interested enough to go and buy an Acer Aspire One with Linux on it ... may end up upgrading it to Ubuntu or ano distro (hey, i;m even using the right lingo!) 

Many thanks for your help, it is really appreciated and gives me a good feeling about the support i could expect from the Linux community.

Best regards

Barrie

---

### Post by northern lights on 2009-01-05
> **barrieg said:**
> (hey, i;m even using the right lingo!)
Indeed you were. ;-)

> **barrieg said:**
> Many thanks for your help, it is really appreciated and gives me a good feeling about the support i could expect from the Linux community.
After Freedom, one of GNU/Linux's greatest aspects.

---

### Post by theacerguy on 2009-01-05
try removing the nividea card and using plain graphics if that works it should stay i wouldnt know my nvidia is in my vista i might install ubuntu 9.4 or 9.10 when they come out it is a super pc but as soon as i get it back i gonna dual boot

---

