---
title: "[22.04.1] How to connect LPR to a printer"
date: 2023-02-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by janvi2 on 2023-02-08
There are 2 HP printers in my network and both working fine. After a Thunderbird update, the printing dialog changed there and I am not able to print from thunderbird since then. 
Thunderbird printing dialog only shows print to file or "Print using the system dialog" what only allows to print to LPR. Thunderbird dialog does not show the same HP printers as
shown in system setup. Sorry if this is a Thunderbird problem and the wrong forum here. Other applications like Shotwell have both HP printers included in their menu selection.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2023-02-08
Try installing hplip and setup the printers using that instead of relying on the built&#8209;in system drivers.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2023-02-09
I am not sure from your description but have a look through the thread at [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2482656](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2482656) which may be the same problem described differently, and maybe the Thunderbird settings you have are to print to PDF file as the default instead of using your printer itself.

Could this also be a function of you using the snap version of Thunderbird?

---

### Post by janvi2 on 2023-02-09
Thats it. The solution is here:

[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1260603/how-can-i-print-from-the-snap-packaged-version-of-firefox](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1260603/how-can-i-print-from-the-snap-packaged-version-of-firefox)

Wonder about the snap versions what always comes back for Firefox

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2023-02-09
Glad you found the solution janvi2,

Very perceptive of ajgreeny. I too was hoodwinked by the fact that you are using the snaps version of TBird. I use the apt version, so don't run into these issues.
> **janvi2 said:**
> …Wonder about the snap versions what always comes back for Firefox
Snaps are an ongoing controversy, not least because of experiences like yours.

There are workarounds to use non-snap. See the following thread: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2483505&p=14129081#post14129081](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2483505&p=14129081#post14129081)

Long thread but there are some posts that show you how to either install the standalone self&#8209;updating version of FF, or tweak priorities to install the PPA version. One need not use any snaps if one does some tweaking.

---

