---
title: "ATI Radeon 7000 hardy question"
date: 2008-07-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by SlappyPappy on 2008-07-26
Okay, so what is up with the ATI Radeon 7000 and hardy?

I'm guessing that this card is what's giving me trouble with VLC running all choppy-like.

Is there anyone out there with definitive info as to what the best solution is to using this card, in terms of driver etc.?

Thanks for any help you can give!  :confused:

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-07-26
Since the Radeon 7000 is so old, it is not terribly well supported.  It uses the open source ati drivers, so if you ever installed the fglrx restricted drivers, that would definitely be a problem.  If you are running compiz while trying to play a video, you need to turn it off first by enabling metacity
```
metacity --replace &
```
to re-enable compiz:
```
compiz --replace &
```

---

### Post by chewit on 2008-07-26
I have a ATi Radeon 7000 PCI (64mb) on my Ubuntu PC. It runs fairly well. I use the 'radeon' open source driver.

If you are having performance issue, follow these two tutorials.

[http://edhewitt.co.uk/2008/03/24/fixing-ati-radeon-on-linux/]("http://edhewitt.co.uk/2008/03/24/fixing-ati-radeon-on-linux/")

[http://edhewitt.co.uk/2008/04/07/tweaking-the-ati-radeon-in-linux/]("http://edhewitt.co.uk/2008/04/07/tweaking-the-ati-radeon-in-linux/")

---

### Post by SlappyPappy on 2008-07-26
Thanks for the help lads. I'm going to dive in and see if I can get this squared away.  :)

---

### Post by SlappyPappy on 2008-07-26
What in the world is going on with xorg.conf? It's like totally bland, nothing at all in terms of what my hardware is. This is the opposite of what it is in Gutsy. Did Hardy make some kind of a change in xorg.conf where it uses generic terms?

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-07-26
Yes, the newer version of X relies more on autodetection than xorg.conf - I think this file will ultimately be completely deprecated and no longer used.  The upgrade has been somewhat of a mixed blessing.  Overall it has worked out well, but when problems do occur, it becomes a major pain in the butt to deal with.  AFAIK, the 7000 is recognized normally, but since it is so old, you just don't get great performance out of it.

---

### Post by SlappyPappy on 2008-07-27
Thanks for the info man. I kind of feel stuck with it though.

It's working but I don't know if I could make it work better somehow!

---

