---
title: "13.10 start up message &quot;system program problem detected&quot; and a black x for cursor"
date: 2014-02-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Russell_Pavlick on 2014-02-18
"Do you want to report the problem now?" cancel box report problem box/ clicking on either yealds the same result black screen and black x for curser 
Im a very neuby step by step please Thanks in advance

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-02-18
This sounds like low resolution mode.  Can you tell us what kind of computer this is (cpu, ram, video).

Try this; press:

Ctrl + Alt + F1

That should take you to a text only screen.  You will have to login.  Then run the following commands (one line at a time).

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
sudo reboot

```
Look for errors.

And welcome to the forums :)

---

### Post by Russell_Pavlick on 2014-02-18
> **Russell_Pavlick said:**
> "Do you want to report the problem now?" cancel box report problem box/ clicking on either yealds the same result black screen and black x for curser 
Im a very neuby step by step please Thanks in advance

OK  after puting in your comands we got the same result However I think you were on to smomthing when you mentioned ""Low resolution"" I rember the guy saying he didnt have the driver for Graphics card.
 The guy who set it up for me left this info: Graphics card needs an ubuntu driver NVida GeForce MX 40000 No name on black tower it does have 4 bays for cd rom Computer has 2-80 gig hdd 2 gig RAM 2.2 ghz AMD Athlon 64X2 Dual Core Processor OS is Ubuntu (smaller Lynux distrib(DSL) option)

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-02-18
I think this is the video card you have.

[http://www.gpureview.com/geforce-mx4000-card-130.html](http://www.gpureview.com/geforce-mx4000-card-130.html)

Please verify this.

```
sudo lshw -C video
```

And lets make sure what Ubuntu your running.

```
lsb_release -a
```

If you are trying to run Ubuntu/Unity, I cannot see this happening on a 10 year old video card.

---

### Post by Russell_Pavlick on 2014-02-19
Ok I got the following reponce
*-display UNCLAMED
desription: VGA compatible controller
product:NV18 [GeForse4 MX 4000]
vender: NVIDIA Corporation
physical id: 0
bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
version: c1
with :32 bits
clock; 66MHz
capabilities: pm agp-3.0 vga_controller bus_master cap_list
configuration: latency=64 maxlatency=1 mingnt=5
resources: memory:fa000000-faffffff memory:f4000000-f7ffffff memory:fbd00000-fbd1ffff

will continue in my next post thank you so much Russ

---

### Post by Russell_Pavlick on 2014-02-19
No LSB modules are available.
distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description  ubuntu 13.10
Release: 13.10
Codename: saucy


I hope this helps Russ

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-02-19
Hi Russ and yes that helps :)

Lets see if changing the desktop environment will do any good.  Go back to the text screen (better known as "console") and ..

```
sudo apt-get install gnome-panel
```

Then reboot

Now, when you get to the login window you need to click on the icon and change your desktop to Gnome Classic (no effects).

It may not be worded that way or look a little different from the pic, but the key word here is "No effects".  Thats the one you want.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]250482[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Russell_Pavlick on 2014-02-19
same results. the pic you posted didnt come up just the "systom program problom detected" box 

Oh i did figure out it has a 
[h=1]ASUS A8V mo board[/h]

---

### Post by Russell_Pavlick on 2014-02-19
also looked at the pic of the video card outpoots were only the on mine has a rca yellow plug in and a square white port 24 pins

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-02-20
Ok

My Google-Fu tells me that you should be running nVidia-96 driver.  This should of been installed automaticaly as part of the default install.  So lets verify that.

```
sudo /sbin/lsmod | grep nvidia
```

Also there seems to be a third party driver out there thats called nVidia-current, that may also work.  Not totally sure about this one yet.

I think we need to try a boot option called "nomodeset".

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)

To permanently set this option in your system you will have to first edit the file in console with a console editor called "Nano".

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Nano](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Nano)

The command will be:

```
sudo nano /etc/default/grub
```

And add nomodeset to just the one line.

I hope this is enough of an explanation.  I am in a bit of a rush this morning; heading out.  Will check back.

EDIT:  I forgot.  Lets first make a backup copy of that file.

```
sudo cp /etc/default/grub /etc/default/grub.old
```

---

### Post by Russell_Pavlick on 2014-02-25
sorry I was gone a few days 
typed in 
sudo /sbin/lsmod | grep nvidia 
it went back to command line?

---

### Post by Russell_Pavlick on 2014-02-25
I also tryed the back up and recived 
cp:cannot stat //etc/defalt/grub0: no such file or directory

did I try to back it up out of sequence?

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-02-26
> **Russell_Pavlick said:**
> sorry I was gone a few days 
typed in 
sudo /sbin/lsmod | grep nvidia 
it went back to command line?

It looked to be the proper nvidia command.  Just try a simple list command and look for the driver.

```
ls nvidia
```

> **Russell_Pavlick said:**
> I also tryed the back up and recived 
cp:cannot stat //etc/defalt/grub0: no such file or directory

did I try to back it up out of sequence?

The backup command works just fine, maybe a typo, copy and paste.

---

### Post by Russell_Pavlick on 2014-02-26
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> It looked to be the proper nvidia command.  Just try a simple list command and look for the driver.

```
ls nvidia
```



The backup command works just fine, maybe a typo, copy and paste.

Tryed "ls nvidia"
ls: cannot access nvidia: no such file or directory


I cannot paste i am on a separate computer 
say I talked to Ben he set up the one Im trying to revive he recomends trying to load "Kubuntu" any suggestions will help, thanks in advance

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-02-26
> ls: cannot access nvidia: no such file or directory

Ok, I'm having trouble with nvidia commands.  Forget it for the moment.

> say I talked to Ben he set up the one Im trying to revive he recomends  trying to load "Kubuntu"

You can burn a live cd/dvd and then try it before installing it.

---

### Post by Russell_Pavlick on 2014-02-26
ok will try

---

### Post by Russell_Pavlick on 2014-02-26
ok will try<br>

---

### Post by Russell_Pavlick on 2014-02-26
downloaded ISO, burned, and inserted, and restarted, no warning box however. blank screen except black x curser. logged in same as before ok. Just peeking in the bios does not even show a dvd drive detected? and 2 master hdd Ch0 and Ch1 identical drive names and size 74.50 sata. confused

---

