---
title: "12.10 installs fine, won't boot after restart"
date: 2013-01-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Skymutt on 2013-01-10
Been trying for two days to install 12.10 to a Dell Latitude D430. I just installed a 32GB Sandisk SSD, and the installer has no trouble detecting the drive, and appears to work perfectly.  After reboot, however, all I get is a blinking cursor and no other response. 

I previously had 11.xx running on the same notebook, but running from a thumb drive. This was not the live iso, but actually installed from DVD to an 8GB USB stick as though it were a regular drive.   I've tried both 32 and 64 bit versions, and tried installing from a thumb drive as well as a DVD, all with identical results. 
I just want to make this into a glorified netbook for use with schoolwork, but I'm beginning to lose hope and if someone here can't help me I'm going to end up swallowing a bullet and installing Windows 7 instead, so HELP!  :)

---

### Post by tlhIngan on 2013-01-11
Do you have multiple drives in that system?
Is the SSD first in the boot order?

---

### Post by Skymutt on 2013-01-11
The only other "drive" was an SD card, but I removed it before the next install attempt.  As for drive order, I've changed it, but only after the last try, would installing with it in the top spot make a difference?

---

### Post by Skymutt on 2013-01-11
Ok, so I just double checked, and the ISO I used back when I installed on the USB drive is named  ubuntu-11.10-alternate-i386.iso  So now I'm not even sure if that's the standard release of 11.10 or something else, ack! Is that just the designation for an alternate download because I used bittorrent, or does it denote a specialized release?

---

### Post by audiomick on 2013-01-11
Don't panic, the alternate installer is the same OS when it is finished. The difference is the installer itself, which is a text based installer rather than the GUI based one on the standard installer.

You said, however, in your first post, that you were trying to install 12.10, and the iso that you mention in the last post is one for 11.10. That will not, of course, install 12.10.

The blinking cursor might be a video problem, or maybe GRUB did not get installed properly.

I think the first thing might be to go here

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair")

and follow the instructions to get a  bootable medium and generate the boot info script from a live environment. This will show the exact state of your install, including which version you have installed and if the grub boot loader is intact. If not, the boot repair function might get it going. If it all looks ok, you might need to start looking into video problems.

---

### Post by tlhIngan on 2013-01-11
> **Skymutt said:**
> I just installed a 32GB Sandisk SSD, and the installer has no trouble detecting the drive, and appears to work perfectly.  After reboot, however, all I get is a blinking cursor and no other response. 


> **Skymutt said:**
> The only other "drive" was an SD card, but I removed it before the next install attempt.  As for drive order, I've changed it, but only after the last try, would installing with it in the top spot make a difference?

Changing drive configurations (adding and removing drives to the system) and changing their boot order could have caused this.
When Linux installs itself, if you do not install in on the primary partition of the very first drive, Linux will install a bootloader on the primary partion of the first drive pointing at wherever you installed Linux. If you change drives in and out or if you change the boot order after the installation is complete, this will get all messed up.
Try reinstalling GRUB2, the most likely bootloader Ubuntu would've installed. It'll figure where all your stuff's at and set it straight.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2013-01-11
> **tlhIngan said:**
> ...Try reinstalling GRUB2, the most likely bootloader Ubuntu would've installed...


Ubuntu would have installed Grub2. The boot repair utility that I linked to will, as far as I know, re-install grub if that is what the problem is. The boot info will at least show if it is not there.

---

### Post by Skymutt on 2013-01-12
Yeah, I tried to edit the typo, but it doesn't seem to be sticking in all the right places. Oh well, I'm a noob, feel free to mock me. ;) 

Anyhow, I tried the boot repair that mick linked to, and it didn't work, but generated this error log...

[http://paste.ubuntu.com/1521601/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/1521601/)

Perchance someone who understands more of it than I do can tell me if it points to the problem?

---

### Post by Elfy on 2013-01-12
> **Skymutt said:**
> Yeah, I tried to edit the typo, but it doesn't seem to be sticking in all the right places. Oh well, I'm a noob, feel free to mock me. ;) ...

You don't get much time to edit a title if you've made a mistake - you can use the report abuse button to ask staff to change things. 

I've edited the title.

---

### Post by Skymutt on 2013-01-12
> **Elfy said:**
> You don't get much time to edit a title if you've made a mistake - you can use the report abuse button to ask staff to change things. 

I've edited the title.

Thanks, Elfy.  I didn't mean to sound as though I thought I was being harassed though, the "mock me" comment was all in fun.

---

### Post by YannBuntu on 2013-01-12
> **Skymutt said:**
> [http://paste.ubuntu.com/1521601/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/1521601/)

First we can see lign 383 that you used Boot-Repair from a 12.1O 32bit live disc. So it's not 11.10, and it's fine.


l.419 we see that your disk is not GPT. If GRUB was installed correctly, we should see it it the MBR of sda , but it is not (lign 6).

The problem is that you have a crypted filesystem. (see l.24).

- If this was intentional, uncrypt it before using Boot-Repair's Recommended Repair, and tell us the new URL.
- If you don't need crypted partition, then format the entire disk via Gparted, then reinstall Ubuntu without ticking the "Encrypt the new Ubuntu" checkbox.

---

