---
title: "9.10 - wvdial?"
date: 2009-11-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-11-13
I remember a week or 2 before the official release of 9.10 reading a thread here about people being concerned because wvdial was gone in 9.10.  So, when I installed 9.10 last night I went ahead and set up ppp and have been manually doing the pon and poff.  I started the package manager to add a bunch of stuff (KDE, etc.) and noticed that with the all the sources activated that show in the package manager (excluding any backports if there were any) and doing a reload (which takes "a while" on dialup:), wvdial now shows again.  Soooooo, dumb question time again:

- does wvdial still work in 9.10?

- if so, what was all the pre-release chatter about?

- I have noticed just using pon that my connection stays alive a *LOT* better, not near as many drop offs.  Nothing has changed on the phone lines, etc., so I'm inclinded to think there's been a change somewhere that helped - is that because I currently am not using wvdial?

Thanks for the answers to more of my dumb questions!

Dave :)

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-13
The "chatter" was that wvdial is what a lot of folks used to set up their dial up.  Kind of hard to do if you have to have the connection to download it.

I always used pppconfig myself.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-11-14
Now I understand.  It was just a couple of months ago that I had to go to dialup and didn't have a clue as to how to go about it in Linux.  A kind user who sent me a US Robotics serial modem for free also told me about pppconfig and wvdial.  Once you just actually know what the tools are there really isn't much to it, so setting up ppp again was easy with my install of 9.10.

So, for those who were worried about updating to 9.10 due to needing to be online first before you could download wvdial (which I'm sure seemed like a catch-22), don't worry - it's easy to set things up with pppconfig.

Thanks for the explanation!

Dave :)

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-14
I also read somewhere  on the forums that Network Tools got them up and running on dial up under 9.10.

I do not use dial up right now, living in the land of DSL (and too many people).  I hope to get back to it.  DSL is nice, the extra people are not worth it.

---

