---
title: "8.10 and Vista Dual Boot- Vista Recovery Partition Error"
date: 2009-10-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Antiopa on 2009-10-11
Hi everyone,
 
I am new to Linux (and this site) and had installed (with some help from an acquaintance) Ubuntu 8.10 on my computer a couple of months ago. I tried to set up a dual boot between that and Windows Vista because I wasn't ready to have just Ubuntu. However, once Ubuntu was installed I could not boot Vista. When I tried to do so it said it had an error accessing the recovery partition and wouldn't load Vista at all, preferring instead to display a white screen with the word ERROR on it in huge red letters.
 
I have decided to start setting up the dual booting process over again with the hope that I can get Vista working. I have used the recovery disc that came with my computer to reinstall Vista on the whole system. I have reduced the Vista partition using Vista (hoping that it will reposition the recovery partition according to its needs) as low as it will let me (to 88.3 GB, although 53 GB is unused) and defragmented everything Windows has access to, which is just the partition it is on. I would now like to set up the dual boot with Ubuntu, and I am hoping to use the partitions as outlined in my [other post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8090012#post8090012"). 
 
Any ideas as to specifically what the problem was? Has anyone seen this before? Any suggestions for how to make sure it doesn't happen again? My current theory is that the problem last time was that I (possibly) moved around the order of the partitions without telling Vista so when it went searching for where it expected to find the recovery partition (which apparently it wants just in order to boot up), it wasn't there. 
 
Any advice would be greatly appreciated!
 
P.S. I don't know if this should be here (beginners) or in the regular installation section. I put it here because I am a beginner and don't know many of the Ubuntu terms yet.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-10-11
> **Antiopa said:**
> Hi everyone,
 
I am new to Linux (and this site) and had installed (with some help from an acquaintance) Ubuntu 8.10 on my computer a couple of months ago. I tried to set up a dual boot between that and Windows Vista because I wasn't ready to have just Ubuntu. However, once Ubuntu was installed I could not boot Vista. When I tried to do so it said it had an error accessing the recovery partition and wouldn't load Vista at all, preferring instead to display a white screen with the word ERROR on it in huge red letters.
 
I have decided to start setting up the dual booting process over again with the hope that I can get Vista working. I have used the recovery disc that came with my computer to reinstall Vista on the whole system. I have reduced the Vista partition using Vista (hoping that it will reposition the recovery partition according to its needs) as low as it will let me (to 88.3 GB, although 53 GB is unused) and defragmented everything Windows has access to, which is just the partition it is on. I would now like to set up the dual boot with Ubuntu, and I am hoping to use the partitions as outlined in my other post. 
 
Any ideas as to specifically what the problem was? Has anyone seen this before? Any suggestions for how to make sure it doesn't happen again? My current theory is that the problem last time was that I (possibly) moved around the order of the partitions without telling Vista so when it went searching for where it expected to find the recovery partition (which apparently it wants just in order to boot up), it wasn't there. 
 
Any advice would be greatly appreciated!
 
P.S. I don't know if this should be here (beginners) or in the regular installation section. I put it here because I am a beginner and don't know many of the Ubuntu terms yet.
windows vista has a problem.
when ever its partition tables are changed by something else than itself, it complains and gives of errors.

i ended up using [http://neosmart.net/blog/2008/windows-vista-recovery-disc-download/](http://neosmart.net/blog/2008/windows-vista-recovery-disc-download/)
i selected repair. and voila. within a few minutes, i was back up and running.

---

### Post by mikechant on 2009-10-12
If on this attempt you have only manipulated the Windows partitions using the Windows utilities, and you do the Ubuntu install in such a way that the Windows partitions are not touched, you should not have any problems, and you should automatically get an option to boot Vista or Ubuntu at startup.

As per above, if you change the Windows(Vista) partitions during the Ubuntu install process, Windows doesn't like it! In my case after shrinking the Windows partition with the Ubuntu installer, when I next booted into Windows it appeared to hang. But after leaving it for *3 hours* it recovered its file system and has booted normally since then. Others report having to use the recovery disc as above. Anyhow if you do as per my first paragraph above none of these problems should occur!

---

### Post by Antiopa on 2009-10-12
Thank you both for your help.  I think it must have been fixed by using Vista to do the resize (or maybe defragmenting?) instead of the built-in partitioner on the Ubuntu CD.  The new install went just fine and I am now able to boot either OS (exciting!).

I have also made a copy of that Vista Recovery/Repair ISO just in case something happens later on.  I already have a recovery CD from the manufacturer but it wipes everything when it recovers Vista.  A repair option would be a great thing to have, and might save me having to partition all over again if I have any problems in the future!

---

### Post by lrcaballero on 2009-10-12
Hi there!!!

First of ALL You are in the RIGHT place!!!! :). Second you should consider installing Ubuntu9.04, by default it will walk you through the partition, make you you select the side by side option and go to the bottom and manually tell Ubuntu how much space you want to give him!!! it is e very easy process, I am fairly new my-self (3 Weeks) and I went ALL the way with ONLY running on Ubuntu 9.04 and I am havving lots of fun and I don't even remember what MS Windows is (jajajajajaja). Send me a private message if you need further assistance.

Luis  :guitar:

---

### Post by raymondh on 2009-10-12
> **Antiopa said:**
> Thank you both for your help.  I think it must have been fixed by using Vista to do the resize (or maybe defragmenting?) instead of the built-in partitioner on the Ubuntu CD.  The new install went just fine and I am now able to boot either OS (exciting!).

I have also made a copy of that Vista Recovery/Repair ISO just in case something happens later on.  I already have a recovery CD from the manufacturer but it wipes everything when it recovers Vista.  A repair option would be a great thing to have, and might save me having to partition all over again if I have any problems in the future!

Well done =D>

If you want to clone your HD (or any partition), I use PING.

[http://ping.windowsdream.com/](http://ping.windowsdream.com/)

Once again, happy ubuntu-ing.

---

