---
title: "Installed NVIDIA drivers and now can't select resolution over 1024x768"
date: 2009-01-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Bento90 on 2009-01-04
Hi all,

I installed ubuntu 8.10 onto my computer, and one of the first things I changed was the screen resolution, which I set to either 1280x960 or 1400x1050, I can't remember which now.

Anyway, after doing this ubuntu said proprietary NVIDIA drivers are available so I went ahead and installed them and rebooted.

Now I cannot select a res (by going to System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution) over 1024x768.

Can anyone help figure this out?

Thanks.

P.S. Monitor is an HP 7550 17" CRT (1600x1200 max. res.) and the graphics card is an NVIDIA Geforce 5 FX 5500 256MB AGP.

---

### Post by kwacka on 2009-01-04
can you let us see the contents of your /etc/Xorg/Xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by Martin Marshalek on 2009-01-04
I don't know if this will help but it may be the drivers that you installed (the recommended one never worked for me). Try installing the 180.11 beta driver by following the instructions here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1002828]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1002828")

It says Hardy but it works for Intrepid too.

---

### Post by Bento90 on 2009-01-07
> **kwacka said:**
> can you let us see the contents of your /etc/Xorg/Xorg.conf file?

There wasn't a directory /etc/Xorg but there was /etc/X11 which had an xorg.conf file:

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

```

Sorry it took so long to reply, been a bit busy.

---

### Post by Maheriano on 2009-01-07
I had the same problem, run the nVidia Control application from your Applications menu. It'll let you select a higher resolution and write it to your conf file. Or you could just edit your file directly.

---

### Post by Bento90 on 2009-01-07
> **Maheriano said:**
> I had the same problem, run the nVidia Control application from your Applications menu. It'll let you select a higher resolution and write it to your conf file. Or you could just edit your file directly.

Ah, thanks.

However when I run the NVIDIA panel and click "Save to X Configuration File" it comes up with an error saying

> 
Unable to create new X config backup file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'


I presume this is because it's not running in administrator mode or something? Because certain other panels in System -> Administration require a password.

---

### Post by Maheriano on 2009-01-07
> **Bento90 said:**
> Ah, thanks.

However when I run the NVIDIA panel and click "Save to X Configuration File" it comes up with an error saying



I presume this is because it's not running in administrator mode or something? Because certain other panels in System -> Administration require a password.

I get the same error, I didn't mention it because I wanted to know if you would too or if it was just my setup. Right now I just keep changing it in the nVidia panel whenever I reboot but I'll find you the thread here that explains how to manually edit your conf file to save that resolution......I'll eventually edit mine when I get time.

Here's my thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1008637](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1008637)
And here's the link someone posted for me in there: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=975058](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=975058)

---

