---
title: "10.04 install hangs at splash screen"
date: 2010-07-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by SoftTaco on 2010-07-07
I have been trying to install 10.04 on my machine which previously had 9.10 (upgrade failed) on it so I know my hardware should work. But every time I try to install from CD it hangs at the splash screen (ubuntu with the dots) I have tried switching the option from live cd to just install that hangs too. Have also tried randomly switching some of the "Other Options" no luck so far. Can anybody tell my what those options mean? Also when i go to the check disk option it always reports errors and i have tried 3 cds burned on 2 different computers. Dont know what else to try Please help

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-07-07
> **SoftTaco said:**
> I have been trying to install 10.04 on my machine which previously had 9.10 (upgrade failed) on it so I know my hardware should work. But every time I try to install from CD it hangs at the splash screen (ubuntu with the dots) I have tried switching the option from live cd to just install that hangs too. Have also tried randomly switching some of the "Other Options" no luck so far. Can anybody tell my what those options mean? Also when i go to the check disk option it always reports errors and i have tried 3 cds burned on 2 different computers. Dont know what else to try Please help

Did you check the md5sums for the downloaded iso.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/MD5SUMS](http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/MD5SUMS)

---

### Post by SoftTaco on 2010-07-07
MD5 checks out ok

---

