---
title: "cannot execute binaries from shell"
date: 2010-12-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by feynman_ on 2010-12-05
Hi, i'm new to ubuntu so i'm probably doing trivial mistakes.
I simply need to execute an output file generated by g++.
I tried both in Terminal and Konsole the following lines:
$ g++ source.cpp
$ ./a.out
bash: ./a.out:  Permission Denied
$ sudo ./a.out
[sudo] password for riccardo:      
sudo: ./a.out: command not found
$ sudo chmod +x a.out
$ ls -l a.out
-rw------- 1 riccardo riccardo 8951 2010-12-05 14:41 a.out
$ sudo -i
# cd /media/55........
# ./a.out
-bash: ./a.out : Permission Denied

Please answer, i tried for several hours but with my actual knowledge i can't overcome this problem.
Thanks

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2010-12-05
Sometimes it help to enter the full pathnames of everything instead of relative paths...
```
sudo /bin/bash /home/riccardo/bin/a.out
```
Assuming the script is in your ~/bin directory.

EDIT: I just re-read your post and your file is not getting executable permissions.
Try the 'sudo chmod +x a.out' again.

---

### Post by feynman_ on 2010-12-05
i tried several times this command, i even tried sudo chmod 777 a.out, but it doesn't change anything, both in Terminal and Konsole
[edit] 
$ sudo /bin/bash ./a.out
./a.out : ./a.out: cannot execute binary file
i copied to /home/riccardo this file
$ sudo /bin/bash /home/riccardo/a.out
/home/riccardo/a.out: /home/riccardo/a.out: cannot execute binary file

---

### Post by cipherboy_loc on 2010-12-05
Is this file on a removable drive, like a FAT32 or NTFS formatted drive? If so, you will not be able to change the file permissions; but you can copy a.out to your home folder. Try this:

```

cp /path/to/the/a.out ~/a.out
cd ~/
chmod +x ~/a.out

```


See if that works if the a.out is on anything but an EXT(2, 3, 4) formatted drive. 

Cipherboy

---

### Post by feynman_ on 2010-12-05
Exactly, it is a NTFS disk, it worked, thanks a lot to you and the previous commenter, i really appreciate

---

