---
title: "10.4 Xserver will not auto detect monitor - but Nvidia settings are Help?"
date: 2010-06-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cogvos on 2010-06-30
Dear all,

Have now upgraded to 10.04 to try and fix a problem I had in 8.04 wher by I was stuck at 640*480 res.

Sadly the update has not fixed the problem.

I have a 9.10 install that is on the same box and working fine.
Am running Nvidia glx drivers (current - recommended) on a 9500.


How do I kill x and force it to rebuild its config files? It appears to have defaulted to some kind of fail safe system though the gnome nvidia server settings (from the system drop down) are stating the monitor make and card correctly (HP W2007 and Geforce 9500 GT respectively)

 xconfig file below

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder75) Thu Apr 22 11:44:23 PDT 2010

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#Section "InputDevice"
# Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
# Driver "kbd"
# Option "CoreKeyboard"
# Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
# Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
# Option "XkbLayout" "us"
#EndSection
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#Section "InputDevice"
# Identifier "Configured Mouse"
# Driver "mouse"
# Option "CorePointer"
# Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
# Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
# Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
# Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
#EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
# Inputdevice "Generic Keyboard"
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
# Inputdevice "Configured Mouse"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "glx"
Load "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Keyboard0"
Driver "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Mouse0"
Driver "mouse"
Option "Protocol" "auto"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Failsafe Monitor"
VendorName "Plug 'n' Play"
ModelName "Plug 'n' Play"
Gamma 1
ModeLine "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Failsafe Device"
Driver "nvidia"
BoardName "vesa"
Screen 0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Failsafe Device"
Monitor "Failsafe Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "NoLogo" "True"
SubSection "Display"
Virtual 640 480
Depth 24
Modes "640x480@60"
EndSubSection
EndSection


Help?

---

### Post by Spr0k3t on 2010-06-30
Thanks for the follow up in the other thread.  Are you getting any kind of error messages?  Also, what happens when you use the nv driver instead of the nvidia driver?  You won't be able to use the 3D desktop gadgetry, but it will help you work with the system better until it's fixed.

---

### Post by cogvos on 2010-06-30
> **Spr0k3t said:**
> Thanks for the follow up in the other thread.  Are you getting any kind of error messages?  Also, what happens when you use the nv driver instead of the nvidia driver?  You won't be able to use the 3D desktop gadgetry, but it will help you work with the system better until it's fixed.

Many thanks for the reply.

I had a play (not I want to point out a random button poke, well not much anyway) and started up in a recovery mode. By resetting x into its 'default' mode (which I think uses the nv driver?) I was able to get from 640*480 to 800*600 - more usable at least.

While still in recovery I logged into root to sort a grub issue and forgetting that I was in root started x to edit the menu.lst. Strangely X came up in a native resolution. No idea why as I had not edited anything to do with X or its config files.

I stopped x, logged in as a user (still in recovery) and again X came up in a native res.

Now baffled I shut down and started normally. Now X is coming up in a native res all the time! I haven't edited anything or changed anything as well I had no idea what to change!

If anyone has any idea why starting up in recovery mode, dropping into root and then starting X cleared the problem I'd be really interested to hear! As it is - at present - it looks like all is working. V odd.

---

### Post by Spr0k3t on 2010-06-30
Check to see if you can enable the desktop effects (System -> Preferences -> Appearence -> Visual Effects).  Also, check the Hardware Drivers (System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers) to see if the propriatary drivers are in use.

One thing I can think of... depending on what application you used to change the screen resolution from 640x480 up to 800x600 may have overwritten your xorg.conf file.  If the file does not exist, the nvidia drivers will not be used, rather the nv drivers.  If that's the case, you might need to blacklist the neaveau (or whatever it's called) module.

---

### Post by cogvos on 2010-07-03
> **Spr0k3t said:**
> Check to see if you can enable the desktop effects (System -> Preferences -> Appearence -> Visual Effects).  Also, check the Hardware Drivers (System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers) to see if the propriatary drivers are in use.

One thing I can think of... depending on what application you used to change the screen resolution from 640x480 up to 800x600 may have overwritten your xorg.conf file.  If the file does not exist, the nvidia drivers will not be used, rather the nv drivers.  If that's the case, you might need to blacklist the neaveau (or whatever it's called) module.

Many thanks for the reply. I was a combination of things. nv was being used so I went back to a previous xorg.conf (which was hanging around I guess from the update (?)) and then redid using the recovery options in grub.

I now have a nice wide screen system again and almost all is working (I have a glitch when the system 1st starts up - the screen flashes green briefly - but other than this x now works as I wanted.

---

