---
title: "u14.04 on HP Z400 w/s After a lock display or suspend screen goes black"
date: 2014-06-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nu2u904 on 2014-06-24
u14.04 on HP Z400 w/s  After a lock display or suspend screen goes black  ; pressing any keys does not display any box to enter my password to  unlock screen  and  continue or do  a normal shutdown. Only recourse is  to power off. My work around is to set time out to never and lock off.  Still cannot recover from suspend.

---

### Post by Alireza_Zamani on 2014-06-24
Hello 

is it (Your Laptop) warm ? and Consumes a lot of electricity?

---

### Post by nu2u904 on 2014-06-25
> **Alireza_Zamani said:**
> Hello 

is it (Your Laptop) warm ? and Consumes a lot of electricity?

No. The hp Z400 w/s is a desktop work station with 3 monitors using a special nvidia card. I attempted the u14.04 bug fix by replacing the os driver with nvidia proprietery tested driver to no avail. I also note that hibernate is no longer a shutdown option. I can use the Alt-SysReq susb to reboot. Does that mean suspend actually suspended or did nothing.  Does this ky sequence actually do a normal shutdown before rebooting?

---

### Post by Alireza_Zamani on 2014-06-30
[SIZE=3][B]are you using nVidia Otimus Card ? 

try [/B][/SIZE][[SIZE=4]**Bumblebee**[/SIZE]]("https://github.com/Bumblebee-Project/Bumblebee")

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:bumblebee/stable
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install bumblebee bumblebee-nvidia linux-headers-generic

---

### Post by nu2u904 on 2014-06-30
I solved the suspend/resume issue by replacing o.s. driver with Nvidia proprietary tested driver. Now suspend/resume works normally power light blinks indicating suspend in effect; pressing any key after a few seconds resumes operation. I tthank the bug fixers for that clue.

However I still have the lock screen problem; even though I removed the password requirement, screen does not unlock and I have to do a reboot.

---

### Post by christianpmaher-z on 2014-08-24
Are there any solutions to this problem yet? After display turns off and I try to press a key on the keyboard to get it to wake up, the screen is still blank. Suspend works fine though. Its just the turn off display function that has the problem.  I'm on a Dell Precision M4800 with NVIDIA K2110 GPU. Any help is much appreciated

---

