---
title: "12.04 LTS AMD Triple-head Eyefinity Problems (Multi-GPU system)"
date: 2013-06-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by diaphonics on 2013-06-25
I have a rig with a Trinity-5800k processor, and two radeon 6570 core edition's (extra ram).  The Trinity exposes a "radeon 7660D".  I am able to get three monitors to work using Xinerama, this is not the issue.  Eyefinity or "Single Large Screen" mode, which allows certain games to be played.  I've tried all three of the drivers that are "recommended" as well as drivers directly from the AMD web site.  All of the monitors are connected over vga.  In some cases, the display manager in gnome quits working entirely and I must rely on catalyst, at which point halfway doesnt work.  I have reconfigured xorg, run aticonfig hundreds of times, etc, all to no avail.  At one point I was able to isolate it down to xrandr getting in the way, but no matter what I attempted I was unable to disable randr.  

I noticed on AMD's site the file claims to be catalyst 13.4, but when decompressing it says its Catalyst 12.104.  I have thus far been unable to enable eyefinity in any capacity - not even on only two screens, let alone all three.  The screens are connected via vga, one screen per card.  If I need some form of adapter to make them all hdmi or DVI or something, that'd be great to know, but I've been unable to find this specifically stated on the AMD site and would prefer not to invest in new hardware unless someone knows about this already.  I've been able to get all of the displays into compatible modes (similar dimensions and aspect ratios) when in a normal environment, so I'm not sure why single large display does not appear in the catalyst options unless RANDR is the ultimate problem.

Does anyone have any suggestions, or a helpful hint?

EDIT:  I've quickly reproduced the issue using the proprietary drivers from AMD.  When Xinerama is enabled, the display manager fails saying RANDR extension is not present; however, when running (as root) aticonfig --list-pairmode, it says pair mode is not supported when RandR 1.2 is enabled.   So, gnome's settings crash because its supposedly not there, and putting it into eyefinity mode fails because it supposedly is there.

SECOND EDIT: Say I called my screens crt0, crt1, and crt2.  Xinerama is now configured with 
crt0 mode 1366x768 
crt1 mode 1024x768
crt2 mode 1024x768

So I should be able to some how create a virtual desktop (using randr without xinerama?) in order to get 3414x768.  Alternatively, I should somehow be able to get the same resolution out of xinerama.  I have Xinerama working fine, but I'm unable to full screen something (e.g. a video game) across all of my panels (the intended goal).

---

