---
title: "Black screen after installing NVIDIA graphics driver"
date: 2008-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pkjai1 on 2008-05-01
Its a fresh installation of Ubuntu. I start up and it tells me right away that I have Restricted Drivers Available on the system tray. It gives me the option to install "NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver. I install it then restart and when it restarts it loads into a black screen.

---

### Post by SOULRiDER on 2008-05-01
> **pkjai1 said:**
> Its a fresh installation of Ubuntu. I start up and it tells me right away that I have Restricted Drivers Available on the system tray. It gives me the option to install "NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver. I install it then restart and when it restarts it loads into a black screen.

Press ctrl + alt + f1, log in and use this command to reconfigure your screen settings.
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```
and follow the wizard.

---

### Post by pkjai1 on 2008-05-01
Wow. That was a really quick reply. =D

---

### Post by pkjai1 on 2008-05-01
Ermmm what is Ctrl+Alt+F1 supposed to do? A whole bunch of stuff pops up like... loading blah blah blah loading blah blah. But it the end its the same result. Its still loading into a black screen.

---

### Post by SOULRiDER on 2008-05-01
It should take you to a console. Boot into reovery mode and run that command there. You may need to remove sudo when running it though.

---

### Post by pkjai1 on 2008-05-01
Okay i ran the command and now it wont load into a black screen. But the driver's not enabled. 

_Component[COLOR="White"]____________________________[/COLOR]|[COLOR="White"]__[/COLOR]Enabled[COLOR="White"]__[/COLOR]|[COLOR="White"]__[/COLOR]Status[COLOR="White"]__[/COLOR]|_
NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver[COLOR="White"]________[/COLOR][ ][COLOR="White"]________[/COLOR]In use

I can't activate visual effects or stuff like that...

---

### Post by pkjai1 on 2008-05-01
Its an ancient Geforce3 Ti200.

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-05-01
Try removing the Restricted Mode Driver and load in the nvidia-glx driver.

---

### Post by pkjai1 on 2008-05-01
Errr what does that mean?

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-05-01
Can you list your xorg.conf file here:
> cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by pkjai1 on 2008-05-01
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by pkjai1 on 2008-05-02
-bump-

---

### Post by pkjai1 on 2008-05-02
bump again! xD

---

### Post by SOULRiDER on 2008-05-04
Damn the new xorg configuration... The problem with your card  is that im not sure if it uses the nvidia-glx package or the nvidia-glx-legacy package.

Open a terminal and do:
```
sudo aptitude install nvidia-glx
```
and then reconfigure xorg.
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
choose the nvidia driver, not nv.

Good luck!

---

