---
title: "12.04 has messed up my pc."
date: 2012-08-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Binman278 on 2012-08-28
I was a ubuntu convert.... then i upgraded two pcs to 12.04. The spare pc now runs very slow and the text labels that pop out from the launch bar are broken up. then the main screen saver picture breaks up and pixelates, also the system icon isnt on the launch bar.

My main Pc faired a little better but I must have installed the pants version in error.
The pc runs slower, Videos play at a sort of slow juddering rate, Music requires a press of the reboot button to turn it off!! Thunderbird doesnt accept any password known to me but at least Evolution can still be used. Sorry to say that Ubuntu has developed a duffer here, call me old fashioned but bars top and bottom of the screen which have menus in writing are far easier to work with than screens of arty pictures and many of those dont work either. Myunity  doesnt work, (pressing the alt button doesnt make it happen either) That awfull launch bar is bad news and not as good as the bottom bar to switch tasks.
Then I read to update is to ask for trouble and a fresh install is always best, so why do ubuntu offer it as a press button and bang option?

I  have tried long and hard to champion the cause for Ubuntu  and now have been let down in a mega rant sort of way. 

Please can someone point me in the direction of simple easy step by step click by click  instructions for a install of ubuntu 10.04. This pc worked with that and the software i use and would do for ever as a stand alone pc.

Thanks, a disappointed Binman

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2012-08-28
Yay, a unity rant. Don't we just *love* them?

Just re-download 10.04 from the site: [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/release/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/release/) and go as per usual from there.

Personally, I think it's pretty good. At least give 12.04 its due, go at it with an open mind and a fresh install (or at least a live USB) and try it out.

---

### Post by Szor3n on 2012-08-28
Downgrading tends to be fairly difficult, but it sounds like you're having some pretty hardcore driver issues. How old is your PC?  You may want to consider trying an alternate desktop environment before completely downgrading (Unity is notorious for behaving badly on old hardware).

Otherwise IMO the easiest way to install any older version of Ubuntu, is to download the image, make a bootable USB drive / dvd, and then do a clean install.

---

### Post by Szor3n on 2012-08-28
> **MG&TL said:**
> Yay, a unity rant. Don't we just *love* them?

Just re-download 10.04 from the site: [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/release/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/release/) and go as per usual from there.

Personally, I think it's pretty good. At least give 12.04 its due, go at it with an open mind and a fresh install (or at least a live USB) and try it out.

I'm also quite sick of Unity rants, as I really like it myself. I love all of the launching / search functionality that's build in.  But then again, not everyone was awesome new-ish harware, and on some older machines Unity REALLY doesn't run very well.

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2012-08-28
> **Szor3n said:**
> I'm also quite sick of Unity rants, as I really like it myself. I love all of the launching / search functionality that's build in.  But then again, not everyone was awesome new-ish harware, and on some older machines Unity REALLY doesn't run very well.

Let's not turn this into a unity thread. :)

That said, it's running pretty awesomely on a Core 2 here. I don't know how low it goes, but it's running really smooth here. If you're still not 'in the market' for unity, you could try Xubuntu or Lubuntu rather than using outdated software (and soon-to-be EOL releases).

---

### Post by Miljet on 2012-08-28
> I'm also quite sick of Unity rants, as I really like it myself. 

And this from someone who is running Feisty Fawn??

---

### Post by jabbarZA on 2012-08-28
> **MG&TL said:**
> Let's not turn this into a unity thread. :)

That said, it's running pretty awesomely on a Core 2 here. I don't know how low it goes, but it's running really smooth here. If you're still not 'in the market' for unity, you could try Xubuntu or Lubuntu rather than using outdated software (and soon-to-be EOL releases).

On that note, i can tell you it runs quite well on an old 915 Chipset board with the early Intel 3.0GHz HT Processors. I did however do a fresh install when moving from 10.10 to 12.04 after the upgrade didn't go too smoothly (probably for the best though, I'm sure there were a few failed experiments lingering on my system).

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2012-08-28
> **Miljet said:**
> And this from someone who is running Feisty Fawn??

Less than 50 posts. ;)

---

### Post by d4m1r on 2012-08-28
How old are those PCs?! If you have decent modern hardware (from the past 3-4 years) 12.04 LTS runs perfectly fine....I think it was naive to run a brand new OS on decades old hardware which is what it sounds like you wanted to do and expected to work :rolleyes:

---

### Post by Binman278 on 2012-09-05
Hi all, sorry for the delay in replying - due to work commitments.
Note what you all say. Its like all things, nothing suits everyone and if you like the latest way of screens so be it. My PCs would be about 5-7 in age. The postings made me think, I reckon that as neither of them like running 12.04 although on will run it all be it slower than it worked on 10.10, there is approaching the time when they wont run the latest version. So I obtained a good disc of 10.10 and tried that on the semi dead pc and it ran well off the CD. I installed it as a fresh whole disc install and it works great. I even with some help from a post on this site installed Cinelerra and that works. It will work even better on the other PC. 10.10 does the job for me and your suggestions have helped restore my PCs and sanity!!!!!!

Many Thanks 
Binman

---

### Post by coldcritter64 on 2012-09-05
([[COLOR=Blue]link to Ubuntu releases info[/COLOR]]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ubuntu_releases#Future_releases"))
Just a note OP, **10.10** went "**end of life**" in **April this year,** no more security updates etc. Unless you use the old-releases repo you may even have problems doing any updating after the initial install. You can fix this by replacing all instances of > archive.ubuntu.com with > old-releases.ubuntu.com in /etc/apt/sources list with ```
gksu gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
```Another suggestion for your older hardware would be to try a lighter but up to date Ubuntu flavour, Lubuntu or maybe Xubuntu, rather than an unsupported default version. Good luck whichever way you decide to go.

Cheers, coldcritter64.

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-09-05
> **coldcritter64 said:**
> ([[COLOR=Blue]link to Ubuntu releases info[/COLOR]]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ubuntu_releases#Future_releases"))
Another suggestion for your older hardware would be to try a lighter but up to date Ubuntu flavour, Lubuntu or maybe Xubuntu, rather than an unsupported default version. Good luck whichever way you decide to go.

Cheers, coldcritter64.

Xubuntu is lighter on the GPU front, but not on the RAM front.  These days, the developers recommend just as much RAM for Xubuntu as for Ubuntu.

Lubuntu is lighter on both fronts.

Not to swamp you with alternatives, but I think Peppermint, which is as light as Lubuntu, is a much better alternative than Lubuntu.  First impression: the artwork seems a bit less early-90's.  Conceptually, it's a hybrid between the web-centric OS (such as Chrome OS) and the conventional machine-centric OS.  Many of its default apps are cloud apps, but if you prefer, you can simply replace them with conventional alternatives.

---

