---
title: "10.04 Thunderbird vs. Evolution"
date: 2010-04-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by AndyP79 on 2010-04-11
Hi Ya'll,
 Just wondering what anyones thoughts are on TB vs. Evo? I am using Lucid, and trying to not add or remove items unless neccesary this time. I have loaded up Evo and trying to use it. It feels kinda clunky and difficult. I am not a power emailer, just basics and have always used TB and always liked it. Switched to TB3 last release and liked it, just a pain in the rear to intall cleanly without glitches. I am not sold on Evo, and considering switching back to TB. 
Any thoughts?

---

### Post by kellemes on 2010-04-11
> **AndyP79 said:**
> (..) and have always used TB and always liked it.

So? Use it. It's a fine mail client.

---

### Post by dalee on 2010-04-11
Hi,

I like Thunderbird myself. Though I've really been giving Evolution a good shot this time. I think Evolution has come a long way from the last time I tried it 3 years ago. It's starting to win me over. Even though like you, my email needs are quite simple.

Honestly, I don't think you can go wrong with either of them. Use the one you like best.

dalee

---

### Post by AndyP79 on 2010-04-11
> **kellemes said:**
> So? Use it. It's a fine mail client.

Well, I like the fact that Evo is integrated into Lucid, with the MeMenu thing, and the calander which I want to use more now that I have things going on to keep track of. Will TB integrate into this new Social aspect of Ubuntu or am I stuck with Evo sitting in the back round and not being able to use these nifty new features?

---

### Post by dalee on 2010-04-11
Hi,

Now that's a good question. I haven't even installed Thunderbird yet since I went to Lucid on my netbook a couple of weeks ago. I been liking the integration.

I would think that if you install Thunderbird and then make it your default mail handler it should, (I would hope anyway), fit itself in there like Evolution. At worst it won't.

dalee

---

### Post by sinbin on 2010-04-11
Evo looks dated but is well integrated into Ubuntu desktop. I've used Evo for a long time but am now trying TB3 and like how it looks and performs.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-04-11
if anyone likes TB just instal it from synaptic or software centre. I use evo now as I like the integration. YMMV

---

### Post by AndyP79 on 2010-04-11
Has anyone got TB to integrate to the panel indicator yet?

---

### Post by phibxr on 2010-04-11
> **AndyP79 said:**
> Has anyone got TB to integrate to the panel indicator yet?

No idea, but I'd love this feature too. At the moment I'm using Evolution instead for the first time ever. :)

---

### Post by daedalas1981 on 2010-04-11
I am also using Evo for the first time...I don't think its that bad...better than outlook :p

---

### Post by jvc26 on 2010-04-11
I've always found evos look a little disappointing personally, and as such TB has always been my preferred port of call. More recently I've moved over to evo for the integration it offers, esp with the increasing integration of the social side of things into 10.04.

Il

---

### Post by AndyP79 on 2010-04-11
It would be nice if the panel indicator acted more like a mail notification. I know it does more though. But if you could have it choose between TB and Evo, Empathy and Pidgin or whatever. Essentially make it a preferred application icon, that will ask you which item you want it to monitor. I wouldn't think that would be too overly difficult for the Canonical devos to figure out. I mean, I'm just sayin'? I know some people prefer one over the other for whatever reason, some just because it is all they have used and don't like to change. But this forces to use one item over the other in order to use the applications in the panel. If you don't want to use Evo or Empathy, you still have to leave the icon which has become useless so you can control your volume. Or if you use Evo, but not Empathy. So why not just make it able to choose which one you want to use? Ehh, it is easy to criticize though from the other side of the wall, besides I am not a devo or programer, so, at least I got this great system for free though right?

---

### Post by mattman85 on 2010-12-06
> **phibxr said:**
> No idea, but I'd love this feature too. At the moment I'm using Evolution instead for the first time ever. :)

[http://digitizor.com/2010/06/26/how-to-add-thunderbird-3-1-in-the-ubuntu-messaging-menu/]("http://digitizor.com/2010/06/26/how-to-add-thunderbird-3-1-in-the-ubuntu-messaging-menu/")

and here's one on Ubuntuforums:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1439519]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1439519")

Then, if you go to Thunderbird, Add-ons, and search for the Minimize to Tray Plus add-on, you'll be able to hide it and get notified.. definitely makes it a little better than Evo, IMO. 

I've seen an Evo plug-in that supposedly minimizes to tray ([http://gnome.eu.org/evo/index.php/Evolution_Tray]("http://gnome.eu.org/evo/index.php/Evolution_Tray")), but I've not tested it out.

---

### Post by thenickrulz on 2011-01-15
i prefer evolution:p

---

### Post by OldBoy44 on 2011-01-15
> **thenickrulz said:**
> i prefer evolution:p

I have never tried Evolution, but I am very happy with Thunderbird!

  :p

---

### Post by dewapur on 2011-08-15
I still prefer TB over Evo and replaced Evo notification with TB in my old laptop. Now since I got my self a new laptop, I need to do it again. This link could be used as starting point.

[http://www.techgarten.com/ubuntu/replace-evolution-thunderbird-completely-ubuntu/](http://www.techgarten.com/ubuntu/replace-evolution-thunderbird-completely-ubuntu/)

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-08-15
NecroThread Closed

---

