---
title: "10.10 Simple sound driver issue...?"
date: 2011-03-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Sequoia Bird on 2011-03-01
Inspiron 1564, Ubuntu 10.10

For a while my sound didn't work out of the built-in speakers, but it worked through the headphone jack. After trying to fix that, it seems I've managed to completely eliminate all sound... :D For a while I had the permanent mute symbol in the panel, now I have the less permanent mute symbol with three hopeful dashes and no hardware listed in sound preferences. I'm pretty sure it's missing a driver but I don't know how to get it.

Thanks, Dylan

"lshw -C sound" returns this: 

*-multimedia UNCLAIMED  
       description: Audio device
       product: RV710/730
       vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
       physical id: 0.1
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.1
       version: 00
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
       resources: memory:cfeec000-cfeeffff
  *-multimedia UNCLAIMED
       description: Audio device
       product: 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset High Definition Audio
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 1b
       bus info: pci@0000:00:1b.0
       version: 06
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
       resources: memory:f0300000-f0303fff

---

### Post by turtle153 on 2011-03-01
Click the Speaker button on the top panel and go to Sound Preferences. Then go to the Hardware tab and click your sound card, if the profile is not set to Output or Duplex, set it to one of them.

Go to the output tab and make sure you have the right device  selected. If you don't know then try both. At this stage you also need to check that you're using the right connector. As far as I know, the default Ubuntu setup can only pout sound out of one port at a time, so you need to switch manually.

---

### Post by Sequoia Bird on 2011-03-01
There is nothing listed under the hardware tab.

---

