---
title: "12.10 Error Messages"
date: 2013-05-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GaryTheCat on 2013-05-09
Hello

I get dialogue boxes popping up frequently along the lines of

[ATTACH=CONFIG]242409[/ATTACH]

I've been having these since October but thought that it would pass once the initial bugs in 12.10 were fixed with updates as the release matured.

Will this issue be resolved if I upgrade to 13.04 (other than the release changing in the dialogue box :-))

TIA

Gary

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-05-09
Yes, upgrading to 13.04 is a good idea. But I suggest you do a Clean, Fresh install of 13.04 from DVD/USB, instead of upgrading from Update Manager. (13.04 IMO is far stable than 12.10 ever was).

BackUp your important DATA first.

---

### Post by GaryTheCat on 2013-05-10
Thanks for that!

I have the same problem every 6 months, I dual boot with Vista (which I only use for iPod and TomTom) and have what can only be described as a GParted Freakshow. I've upgraded in the past using both methods and the fresh install is always a more pleasant experience.

At the moment I have 2 HDDs one with windows on it (c. 120 GB) and another 500 GB disc most of which I use as a shared storage area for windows and ubuntu. Naturally being a messy person, I also have files in my home folder.  What I normally do is copy and paste my home folder to the other shared partition, do the upgrade and copy it back again.

Is there an easier way?

Many thanks

G

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-05-10
Yes there is a simpler way. Since you have two HDD, it is even simpler. You must have one OS on one HDD.

Since you have Vista on HDD leave it alone. But before that, **do you have a windows install disk or repair disk?** If you do, then we can [fix the MBR on the Vista]("http://www.planetmy.com/blog/how-to-fixmbr-using-windows-vista-bootable-disk/") (I am sure there are better graphical tutorials on www). HDD and restore Windows to itself and remove GRUB from that HDD.

Back Up ALL your Important DATA First.

On your Second HDD, 500GB recreate your partition scheme.

My Suggestion:
25 GB Primary Ext4 "/" for Ubuntu
25 GB Primary Ext4 Free for future use in case you want to install antother version of Ubuntu or another Distro
100 GB Primary NTFS To share data between Windows and Ubuntu... 
250 GB Extended Partition
2-4 GB SWAP
Remaining GB LOGICAl Ext4 simple Linux partition for DATA for Linux only.

If you notice I have not suggested separte "/home". When we don't create a separte /home then our Home folder will be created in "/". All our DATA we can save to Linux DATA Partition. This data partition can be set to be automounted at boot or manually mounted when we want to use it. I use the later. 
To save data to this partition we can either use 'Symlinks' or Bind or just set your save path in applications to save in DATA partition. I use the third method, I have set my applications save/path to save in DATA partition. For instance, I have set the default save path in Libreoffice to save in my DATA partition. 

This kind of set up makes it easy for me to just reformat the "/" partition and install a newer version without worring about losing DATA.

**During Ubuntu Install we will have to install Ubuntu's GRUB Boot Loader to the HDD where Ubuntu is installed, 500GB HDD.
**After successful Ubuntu install boot into your BIOS set up and change the HDD boot order to Boot 500GB HDD (Ubuntu installed HDD) First. This way when you boot your computer it boots from ubuntu HDD with Grub menu offering you choice to either load Ubuntu or Windows. 

My two cents...

---

