---
title: "12.04 cinnamon printing queue"
date: 2012-12-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ryandcalvert on 2012-12-11
I am using ubuntu 12.04 with cinnamon(not sure what version or how to find out) anyway, I printed a paper and it had an error, now every time I reboot it tries to print. I don't want to print all 9 pages again, and I would like to cancel it. I saw another post about going in and right clicking but that isn't working.
please help

---

### Post by debodas on 2012-12-11
There will be a program called 'printers'. Open it up, you should see the printer you want. Right click on icon, and open up view print queue. From there you can delete print jobs.

---

### Post by ryandcalvert on 2012-12-12
So when I go to the printers program I can't do anything. I can click options, turn it on and off but I can't right click and do anything. Could you walk me through a clean reinstall of my printer or something, this is frustrating. Also, my printer is a scanner and I can't seem to get it to work. It's a kodak esp c315. thanks

---

### Post by revdjl on 2013-01-15
I have found the same problem - Cinnamon seems to invoke a different printer manager which does not work in Ubuntu (not sure it does in Mint either but mint did print the file that Ubuntu couldn't.)
Under Unity, I noticed the print manager was called "**system-config-printe**r" - so i just created a launcher to invoke it.

BTW I used to love Unity until I tried Cinnamon

---

### Post by revdjl on 2013-01-15
Wow 
just spotted this URL!  [http://localhost:631/](http://localhost:631/)
It opens a web interface to CUPS on your own machine
 - where you can manage the printers and their queues

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2013-01-15
you can always select , delete printer and reinstall

---

### Post by revdjl on 2013-03-03
> **cmcanulty said:**
> you can always select , delete printer and reinstall

Is this not overkill just to stop a stuck print job?

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2013-03-03
Maybe but it works, is fast and beats screwing around forever.

---

