---
title: "10.04 UNR vs. regular Ubuntu on netbook?"
date: 2010-05-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by olayak on 2010-05-14
I have an eee pc 1005hab. At this level, 10.04, is UNR really that useful? What benefit do I get installing unr vs. regular ubuntu on my netbook?
(other than the awful unr desktop).
thanks!

---

### Post by Arvie on 2010-05-14
UNR makes better use of the limited screen real estate, but you can achieve much the same with regular 10.04 if you use only one panel or set the lower one to 'autohide'. I have an Asus eeepc 900 and have tried both. I'm currently running regular 10.04 because I can do more to set the 'look and feel' to my liking. It's a matter of taste, really.

---

### Post by powerofpi on 2010-05-14
I actually quite like the UNR interface for small screens... It is also possible that fewer services are enabled out of the box or power management has been tweaked specifically for netbooks, not sure. In any case, with either version I recommend that you disable unneeded services and install laptop-mode-tools for some very good power management. What do you not like about the UNR interface?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-14
The "awful unr desktop" is the one and only "benefit" of Ubuntu Netbook Edition. 

If you prefer the regular Gnome desktop, just use "regular" Ubuntu.

If you use the Search feature at the top right of your screen, you can find existing threads on your specific netbook model, to see if other users have had success with that hardware. Good luck! :)

---

### Post by olayak on 2010-05-14
thanks! Sorry, I'm sure some people like the unr format, but I like to be able to see the desktop! I also am not a fan of maximus. there are a couple of other little unr things that irk me. just wondering if the regular ubuntu takes up that much more disk space that it is worth installing unr instead and then tweaking it....
or if unr comes with special other things that would make it more beneficial than the regular ubuntu on a netbook.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-05-14
> **olayak said:**
> thanks! Sorry, I'm sure some people like the unr format, but I like to be able to see the desktop! I also am not a fan of maximus. there are a couple of other little unr things that irk me. just wondering if the regular ubuntu takes up that much more disk space that it is worth installing unr instead and then tweaking it....
or if unr comes with special other things that would make it more beneficial than the regular ubuntu on a netbook.

you can see the desktop through it, the launcher is transparent unless your using the alternative launcher theme, which has like a field & kinda reminds me of mandriva.
just install the regular ubuntu & add netbook-launcher, it's more tweakable that way.

i started with lubuntu & ended up with openbox+netbook-launcher-efl+xfce4-panel. :)

---

### Post by bigBuckets on 2010-05-15
I didn't like that UNR locked all the panels and I like a clean desktop, so I'm running regular Lucid on my netbook.  I found maximus annoying at first but found that you can set it to not "fullscreen" every launched app...

In gconf-editor, go to apps >> Maximus >> check nomaximize

I minimize via the panel window selector and quickly close programs with a keyboard shortcut.

---

