---
title: "8.10 installed but nothing after login"
date: 2009-02-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by viacorp on 2009-02-12
I installed 8.10 on a somewhat elderly machine, using a Canonical CD. All went well. After logging in, nothing happened. A faint orange screen, and a cursor that moved around but didn't respond to right or left clicking. I tried rebooting several times. Same story. Then I tried the various pre-boot checks offered (clean, dpkg, etc). I tried them all. That didn't improve anything. I have tried leaving the post-login screen alone for long periods, hoping it would fix itself.
(Julius Caesar said that wishful thinking was one of mankind's most notable traits.)

What can be done?

Thanks for any clues.

Jim

---

### Post by the.phantom on 2009-02-12
how much memory does the system have
there are min specks for 8.10 in memory 

i have a old system with 384 meg and it is damn slow ( just a test box)
i think 384 meg is min for memory and if you have a onboard video card it uses say 32 meg of that?

there are other versions that can run on it
xubuntu might work

---

### Post by Kain000 on 2009-02-13
> **viacorp said:**
> hoping it would fix itself.
(Julius Caesar said that wishful thinking was one of mankind's most notable traits.)

What can be done?

Thanks for any clues.

Jim


haha yes i've caught myself hoping that what I know just happened to my system.....didnt really just happen.  

Anyhoo, it sounds like you are just plumb out of memory.    When you say an old system can you give us any specs?

Ubuntu wont wright itself out of memory (stack smashing) so it starts to wright to swap witch (depending on your hard drive) may take a long time.

that being said however, it shouldnt just lock up period.   Does your mouse still move arround or are you totally locked out?


All the features included in 8.10 can be demanding on an old system, you might want to try a fresh install with another disk.  

first try booting from the live cd and select the option to check cd for defects, 

Also you may want to run the included verition of memtest 98+ from the same disk and just let your CPU chew on that for a few hours until it completes a few rounds.     
that test will tell you wether or not your problem lies in the physical RAM chips or not.

if ( not a memory issue)
                       { 
                 then you know it's somthing to do with your install.;
                       }
so at this point if the cd doesnt have any defects, you can try re-installing 

or 

download another copy of ubuntu, burn it, and install from that one

or

try this version of ubuntu minimal, it's just a slimmed down version to sute older rigs.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD")

oh and welcome to ubuntu!

Good luck!!!

---

### Post by viacorp on 2009-02-14
> **the.phantom said:**
> how much memory does the system have
there are min specks for 8.10 in memory 

i have a old system with 384 meg and it is damn slow ( just a test box)
i think 384 meg is min for memory and if you have a onboard video card it uses say 32 meg of that?

there are other versions that can run on it
xubuntu might work

This old Dell that I'm using as a kind of sacrificial offering to Ubuntu, has only 250meg of RAM. So that's most likely the problem.

Thanks for the answer.

---

### Post by viacorp on 2009-02-14
OK, thanks. I'll try the slim version, or maybe Xubuntu. Good of you to explain all that -- which I've printed and will keep in my notes. Cheers..

---

