---
title: "10.04 - how do I install a mainline kernel?"
date: 2010-06-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-27
I am having the problem reported in this bug report:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/564459]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/564459")

Specifically, hot-plugged USB devices not being recognized.

The bug report says to try the mainline kernel and gives a link, but I'm not sure which of the lucid .35 kernels to choose, nor do I have any idea how to install it.

Can someone point me in the right direction?

Thanks in advance!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-27
Okay, I found this how-to:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/MainlineBuilds]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/MainlineBuilds")

I clicked on "current" and got the kernel i386 image 2.6.35-999-generic, the i386 2.6.35-999-generic headers and the 2.6.35-99-generic headers all.

I then installed each package.

I rebooted, and the first thing I ran into was the video just turned completely off (no signal at monitor).  Traced this to a "vga=784" option that showed on the 2.6.35-999-generic grub menu entry.  Rebooted and got to the desktop.  Tried the hot-plug DVD/RW and that works.  However, another problem seems to have been introduced that I don't know how to solve:

My keyring password was asked for and accepted so that it could try to connect to my router, but it never did anything (network manager continued to have a red "x").  I clicked on network manager but there was no wireless section showing available networks.  I ran ndisgtk - it showed my wireless but I went ahead and deleted it anyway to start with a clean slate.  Upon directing it to my wireless adapters' .inf file, it came up with a fatal (instead of the warning ndiswrapper itself used to give) about config files needed for ndiswrapper.  It did appear to add my adapter anyway.  However, still a red "x" in network manager and no wireless section.

So, I had to reboot to the 2.6.32.22 kernel, which of course means the hot-plug problem is back.

Any help would be greatly appreciated!

Thanks!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-06-27
A couple questions before you should dive into a new kernel are you running any proprietary video cards? also you should reconfigure grub so you can fall back to your old kernel as well heres how

sudo nano /etc/default/grub

heres mine just fix whats listed then all you have to do to fall back is hit escape after your system POSTs  

# If you change this file, run 'update-grub' afterwards to update
# /boot/grub/grub.cfg.

GRUB_DEFAULT=5
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=10
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true
GRUB_TIMEOUT=10

that way if anything fails you can always get back to a working kernel

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-27
I've got grub covered, but thanks for the suggestion.  The video is just using the radeon driver included with 10.04 - I never installed a driver, nor is it using a restricted driver.

It should probably be noted somewhere that people are also reporting problems with getting USB flash drives recognized in this same bug report.  It seems to have something to do with the hot plug logic.

Thanks
Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-28
bump?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-28
Actually, since I actually did install a mainline kernel, I guess I should close this thread and start a new one with my specific problem now.

---

