---
title: "14.04 sound question"
date: 2014-04-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by james120 on 2014-04-17
Today I did a full install of 14.04 lts.  Everything went well.  I had 12.04 installed using wubi.  While looking around the os I got around to opening rhythmbox to import some music.  When I played a song I noticed that only one speaker was playing.  The speaker setup is a logitech stereo system consisting of a subwoofer and 2 speakers running on a desktop stereo configuration in windows xp home.  Think it's stereo 2.1.  The computer has a audio card.  It's a soundblaster audigy.  I think it's the driver because when I reboot and use windows the speakers sound fine.  Is there a linux driver for the audigy card?  If so where can I find? .Also I opened up sounds in system settings and the card is recognized.  I put it on that.

---

### Post by greenbag on 2014-04-17
> **james120 said:**
> Today I did a full install of 14.04 lts.  Everything went well.  I had 12.04 installed using wubi.  While looking around the os I got around to opening rhythmbox to import some music.  When I played a song I noticed that only one speaker was playing.  The speaker setup is a logitech stereo system consisting of a subwoofer and 2 speakers running on a desktop stereo configuration in windows xp home.  Think it's stereo 2.1.  The computer has a audio card.  It's a soundblaster audigy.  I think it's the driver because when I reboot and use windows the speakers sound fine.  Is there a linux driver for the audigy card?  If so where can I find? .Also I opened up sounds in system settings and the card is recognized.  I put it on that.

I just came across the same issue... Soundblaster Audigy, only left speaker working.

---

### Post by james120 on 2014-04-17
Weird exact same thing.  Guess I'll do some more searching tomorrow and maybe get lucky.  I'll post back if I find a solution.  Also going to install synaptic to aid in search and look in additional drivers.

---

### Post by greenbag on 2014-04-17
I'm going back to 12.04... 14.04's too buggy... took 3 attempts just to get my Nvidia drivers loaded without the screen breaking up. That... and there seems to be advertizing included now... lol.

---

### Post by james120 on 2014-04-18
I installed 14.04 yesterday and have ever since been trying to find out why I'm only getting sound out of one speaker.  It's an audigy sound blaster se sound card.  I know it uses a ca-0106 audio controller chip.  The speakers are logitech 2.1 stereo desktop speakers.  Has 2 tweeters and 1 subwoofer.  I opened sound up in system settings and the card is there, the anolog and digital version.  None work except the analog version.  What do I need to do to get this working.  Only problem I've found so far.  Should I sudo apt-get install libasound2 alsa-utils alsa-oss?  All speakers work under windows.  Thinking it might be a driver but don't really know for sure.

---

### Post by mJayk on 2014-04-18
In the sound settings if you click test sound and select the speakers individually to test does it still not work there?

EDIT:

I found this, the bottom post looks like it should help you


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1694113](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1694113)


[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting)

---

### Post by james120 on 2014-04-18
When I test it the only speaker that works is the left speaker.  Computer is a desktop.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-04-18
You were asking about this 13 hours ago

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217548](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217548)

Please do not repeat requests for help by starting another thread. Please allow at least 24 hours before asking again for help and do it in the first thread that you started.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2014-04-18
Threads merged.

---

### Post by james120 on 2014-04-18
More info.  Opened up computer system module snd_ca0106 drivers and in this folder was pci: snd_ca0106.  So I suppose the card and chipset is being recognized.  Right?  Anyway I'm still back to hearing only one speaker.  Any suggestions?

---

### Post by agemini68 on 2014-04-21
If you ever find the fix for this let me know

---

