---
title: "how is it so complicated to install tablet?"
date: 2009-08-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by aeon.flux on 2009-08-26
hi there,

i'm using ubuntu over a month and i'm still trying to make my tablet working. i've read over 10 manuals how to do that, but i still don't understand, how.. it just work for clicking, but not for drawing.. 
every time i think that this time it will work, but after few sentences i don't understand what to do, or i can't do that because the system don't allow me to do that and nobody says why..

if here's anybody who can / want help me, please save me from the heartache..

i have usb Genius mouse pen tablet, ubuntu 9.04 and HP Pavilion dv6000

---

### Post by littlematt on 2009-08-26
Hi

A few more specifics might be helpful.
I too spent ages trying to get my tablet, a portege 3500, to work. See this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1029397](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1029397)

In case you can't be bother to read that, eventually I followed the "Compiling the driver manually" section in 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom/LatestDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom/LatestDriver)
using the then latest driver (0.8.1) and
```
./configure --enable-wacom --prefix=/usr
```
instead of just
```
./configure --prefix=/usr
```


Good luck. Favux was a huge help to me, so he may be able to help you too.

---

### Post by aeon.flux on 2009-08-26
well, the main problem is, that i was using windows for over 5 years, so i don't understand, why can't i just find, download and install drivers a everything would be ok. i don't understand to commands, most of a time i don't exactly know, what im doing :confused:

i have mousepen 8x6 pen tablet
gpu nvidia geforce go 7600 (notebook)

question: is there any chance to make it easyer with drivers for windows and wine?

---

### Post by littlematt on 2009-08-26
Wine, in my experience, is a lot more trouble than it's worth. I don't think windows drivers will work ever. Wine is for .exe applications, I think.

I'll do my best to guide you through it, though I'm no expert. Like I say, I've done this once before.

Go to [http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net/index.php/dl](http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net/index.php/dl) and click the top link. This should allow you to download the driver. Save this to your desktop.
Once it's there, click on it and I think this will open the extractor program. Extract the files to the desktop.

Post back once you've got this far.

littlematt

---

### Post by aeon.flux on 2009-08-26
ok, got it unpacked on desktop :)

question - are you sure, that linux WACOM-0.8.... will make my genius tablet working?

---

### Post by littlematt on 2009-08-26
The honest answer is no. It worked for me, but I have a different tablet. Stick with me though.

Now click Accessories then terminal. A scary looking black box should appear. Don't panic: this box lets you talk to the heart of your computer. Copy paste the stuff in the box below ONE LINE AT A TIME into the terminal window. If it asks for a password, type your password and press enter.

```
cd Desktop/linuxwacom-0.8.1-6/prebuilt
```

If it tells you this directory doesn't exist, that's ok, move on. if not type
```
sudo ./uninstall
```

This should make sure any previous attempts you've made are uninstalled.

Now copy paste these lines in (again, one line at a time, giving the password if needed) Read what is says back.

```
sudo apt-get install build-essential
sudo apt-get build-dep wacom-tools
cd Desktop/linuxwacom-0.8.1-6
./configure --prefix=/usr
make
sudo make uninstall
sudo make install
```

If it returns any errors, say so. If not, we're happy.

---

### Post by aeon.flux on 2009-08-26
hm, there was one error, in line 3 you wrote cd desktop/linuxwacom 0.8.1-6 and file i downloaded was 0.8.4, so i corrected it  to 0.8.4 and than was everything ok

still dont understand why there was uninstall and then install, but its ok, what now?

---

### Post by littlematt on 2009-08-26
The uninstall was just to make sure there wasn't anything left over from a previous attempt that might screw it up.

Now, could you find the /etc/X11 folder, and attach the xorg.conf document to a post.

littlematt

---

### Post by aeon.flux on 2009-08-26
it allways does error when adding file, but i hope that this will help:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver    "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection

---

### Post by littlematt on 2009-08-26
OK, we're now going to edit this file. It's important we back it up first, just in case. Go to the terminal and type:
```
cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.backup
```

Assuming this works, we're ready to edit it. Since it's an important file, we have to open it as a super user in order to edit it, so go to the terminal and type:
```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

The file should now open. (By the way, I think this may have been why it wouldn't let you post it before, but I'm not sure and it doesn't really matter)

Now, what you add depends on what you've got. I assume you have the same as me, ie a stylus with a nib, an eraser on the end and a side button. In this case, we add the following as new sections in xorg.conf:

```
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/ttyS0"	#SERIAL ONLY
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"	#TABLET PC ONLY
	Option		"Button2"	"3"    # make side-switch a R button
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/ttyS0"	#SERIAL ONLY
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"	#TABLET PC ONLY
EndSection
```


I already had a section called "ServerLayout" but you don't. I'm not sure why this is, so I'm not sure if you'll need one. Try it without, but you may need to add this as well:

```
Section "ServerLayout"
	InputDevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
```

I hope that this will make your tablet work, but you'll need to restart the X server for the changes to take effect. To do this, save the file and close everything. Then hold down ctrl and alt and press backspace. The screen should go black and then it seems to reboot (only really quickly). Now try your stylus. If it doesn't work add the server layout stuff above (save way as before) and restart X server again.

I hope this'll work. I'm going to grab some lunch now, I'll be back in half an hour or so to see if it's worked!

---

### Post by aeon.flux on 2009-08-26
aeonflux@ubuntu:~$ cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.backup
cp: cannot create regular file `/etc/X11/xorg.backup': Permission denied
aeonflux@ubuntu:~$ 

what now? :(

---

### Post by epsolon77 on 2009-08-26
> **aeon.flux said:**
> aeonflux@ubuntu:~$ cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.backup
cp: cannot create regular file `/etc/X11/xorg.backup': Permission denied
aeonflux@ubuntu:~$ 

what now? :(

/etc is a system folder, you must be root or super user to copy.  Simply put sudo before the cp command.  

the new command would read
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.backup
```

Hope I didn't step on any toes.  I will be watching with interest.

---

### Post by littlematt on 2009-08-26
Sorry, aeon, I forgot to put sudo at the start of the line,epsolon is right.

Thanks epsolon, I don't suppose you know if the sever layout is needed: I guessed it wasn't there because of HAL. I did this in Hardy Herron and I assume aeon is running the latest version.

Anyway, aeon, it should work with sudo at the start of the line.

---

### Post by epsolon77 on 2009-08-26
I do not know if the server layout is necessary or not.  I am afraid I have not done to much in the X11 configs, and am still quite an amateur at Ubuntu.  I would venture a guess that the server config applies more to the Xorg server.  If I were doing this myself I would add it in.  Then if for some reason X11 crashes, you can always boot into recovery mode through grub and recover your old X11 conf file.

P.S I appreciate your willingness to help in such an in depth fashion.  This will make a great HOW TO if it works (sorry if that sounds pessimistic)  didn't mean to step in on you, but was hoping to speed things up.

---

### Post by aeon.flux on 2009-08-26
so...
epsolon77 was right, after adding sudo on start it worked. the file (xorg.conf) was empty, (i didn't see any letters in Text Editor) so i added everything what you written, (including "ServerLayout" section) and than tryed to close text editor(to save changes), but i cant. it told me this:

[I]**"Could not find the file /etc/x11/xorg.conf.**
Please check that you typed the location correctly and try again."
[/I]
so am i right, if i think that i'm still not alowed to edit this file? how do i do it now?

---

### Post by littlematt on 2009-08-26
> **aeon.flux said:**
> so...
epsolon77 was right, after adding sudo on start it worked. the file (xorg.conf) was empty, (i didn't see any letters in Text Editor) so i added everything what you written, (including "ServerLayout" section) and than tryed to close text editor(to save changes), but i cant. it told me this:

[I]**"Could not find the file /etc/x11/xorg.conf.**
Please check that you typed the location correctly and try again."
[/I]
so am i right, if i think that i'm still not alowed to edit this file? how do i do it now?

Sorry, I think that's my typo again. "x11" should be "X11" - the capital is important.

---

### Post by aeon.flux on 2009-08-26
so i did everything like you wrote and restarted pc, but it didn't started normally, did several errors and i formated disk and installed ubuntu studio :lolflag: 
now i can start from the start...

---

### Post by littlematt on 2009-08-27
> **aeon.flux said:**
> so i did everything like you wrote and restarted pc, but it didn't started normally, did several errors and i formated disk and installed ubuntu studio :lolflag: 
now i can start from the start...

Gah!! Sorry it didn't work.
There probably was no need to format and start again - that's why we backed it up.
Out of interest, I don't suppose you know what the errors said?
I have no experience of Ubuntu Studio (I only just googled it) but good luck with getting it to work.

---

### Post by aeon.flux on 2009-08-27
the problem was that when the system didn't start, i had no chance to connect to this forum and ask for help. but don't wory, i have all my important data on external disk, so i can continue learning how this all works..:tongue:

---

### Post by epsolon77 on 2009-09-03
> **aeon.flux said:**
> the problem was that when the system didn't start, i had no chance to connect to this forum and ask for help. but don't wory, i have all my important data on external disk, so i can continue learning how this all works..:tongue:

Yes I understand the "if my computer doesn't work, how to I get on the internet to search the FAQ" issue.  That's why I got a netbook :D.

For future reference the grub boot loader allows you to log in rescue mode to the command prompt.  Then you could undo whatever change you made to break the system.  Try searching for grub rescue mode.

---

### Post by aeon.flux on 2009-09-04
i have no idea what are you talking about :D

---

### Post by littlematt on 2009-09-04
> **aeon.flux said:**
> i have no idea what are you talking about :D

For future reference, when you boot up you should be given the option to press esc. to get boot options. If you choose recovery mode (for me has recovery in brackets) then you can choose vatious options, including droping to the command line. Then you can enter commands, like in the terminal, so for instance to copy your backup back to xorg.conf you could type the oposite of before, ie:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Then restart (ctrl, alt, del) and it should be back to how it was. Too late now, but being confident in doing this could prevent you having to start again, again!

littlematt

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-09-05
Hi aeon.flux and everyone,

Which model of Genius mouse pen tablet you have turns out to be important because there are several tablet manufactures whose tablets are then rebranded.  And you can also set up several different ways depending on the model.

For more about this see practic's post #11 here:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1151464&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1151464&page=2)  and the Community WizardPen wiki:  [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/TabletSetupWizardpen](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/TabletSetupWizardpen)  You might want to read through the thread and wiki at some point.

Since you have Genius mouse pen 8x6 pen tablet you'll want to look at:  [http://digitalbluewave.blogspot.com/2009/03/wizardpen-ubuntu-904-and-everchanging.html](http://digitalbluewave.blogspot.com/2009/03/wizardpen-ubuntu-904-and-everchanging.html)  There's also a digitalbluewave on compiling the wizardpen driver here:  [http://digitalbluewave.blogspot.com/2008/10/genius-wizardpen-with-intrepid-ibex.html](http://digitalbluewave.blogspot.com/2008/10/genius-wizardpen-with-intrepid-ibex.html)  And a HOW TO for setting up in Jaunty here:  [http://www.jpbouza.com.ar/ESP2/tutoriales/gnulinux/genius-tablet/id/en](http://www.jpbouza.com.ar/ESP2/tutoriales/gnulinux/genius-tablet/id/en)

Rather than compiling the driver try this site:  [https://launchpad.net/~doctormo/+archive/xorg-wizardpen](https://launchpad.net/~doctormo/+archive/xorg-wizardpen)  There's also deb.s there that you could just download and install.  It also has probably the latest and best source code for the wizardpen drivers if you'd prefer to compile them.  DoctorMo would like feedback at this site:  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/wizardpen](https://bugs.launchpad.net/wizardpen)  Compiling the driver might be a little advanced for you although it looks like you did fine with the linuxwacom drivers.  You shouldn't need to remove them.

Now you could also use the Wacom drivers like littlematt was suggesting, depending on a number of things, as coCoKNIght mentions in post #25 here:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1151464&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1151464&page=3)  And he links to his HOW TO site:  [http://cocoknight.com/g-pen-560-on-jaunty/](http://cocoknight.com/g-pen-560-on-jaunty/)  But that's if you want to experiment later.  You don't need to remove any entries you've made in xorg.conf, you can save them for later by commenting out any Wacom sections (with #) and "ServerLayout".

By the way to use xorg.conf you would need a "ServerLayout" like so:
```
Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
#	Identifier	"X.org Configured"	# New for Jaunty?
	InputDevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
```

I hope this is helpful.

---

### Post by epsolon77 on 2009-09-05
Excellent response Favux.  Thank you very much for the information.  I hope this helps the original poster!

---

### Post by jeffski on 2009-09-05
Hang on here the OP says he has a [SIZE=3]Genius MousePen!!!

[SIZE=1]Pretty sure wacom drivers are not whats needed here.
If your using jaunty you need to change the hal config not the xorg.

To the op, you need the [/SIZE][/SIZE]
**[Wizardpen-driver]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/TabletSetupWizardpen")**

[SIZE=1]I suggest you remove the wacom drivers and check the above link. [/SIZE][SIZE=3][SIZE=1]


-------------------edit-------------------

Sorry Favux i didn't read your post before i made mine, I'm not sure but does the op need to edit the /usr/share/hal/fdi/policy/20thirdparty/10-something.fdi rather than the xorg.conf he is using jaunty after all.
[/SIZE][/SIZE]

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-09-06
Hi jeffski,

The wizardpen folks are using /etc/hal/fdi/policy/99-x11-wizardpen.fdi and the aiptek are using 10-aiptek.fdi in the same directory.  I'm not sure how crucial the numbers are, but obviously 99 executes later than 10.

And you can use xorg.conf in Jaunty.  For example if you have a TX2z TouchSmart tablet pc you have to use the xorg.conf with Wacom sections to get touch working.

---

### Post by aeon.flux on 2010-01-07
thanx a lot, but i didn't need a tablet for some time and last month i  ordered wacom pl-720 and actually i'm waiting for it, and hoping that it will be easier to get it work. but thanx a lot! ;)

---

