---
title: "10.04 netbook updating"
date: 2012-09-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by EllieMurasaki on 2012-09-21
This netbook has 488.9 MB total disk space. Update Manager says, to do the important security updates and the recommended updates, I need 559 MB free. Unchecking all the recommended updates only brings it down to 512 MB. This is not mathematically possible unless I can persuade this machine that the 16 GB memory card is the disk it's looking for. There does not seem to be any option in Update Manager to change the download destination. What (other than 'buy a new netbook' or 'ignore it, back home with desktop on Tuesday') do I do and how do I do it?

---

### Post by mcduck on 2012-09-21
> **EllieMurasaki said:**
> This netbook has 488.9 MB total disk space. Update Manager says, to do the important security updates and the recommended updates, I need 559 MB free. Unchecking all the recommended updates only brings it down to 512 MB. This is not mathematically possible unless I can persuade this machine that the 16 GB memory card is the disk it's looking for. There does not seem to be any option in Update Manager to change the download destination. What (other than 'buy a new netbook' or 'ignore it, back home with desktop on Tuesday') do I do and how do I do it?

It's hard to say wihtout knowing your actual partitioniong scheme, but for starters you could try freeing some space by emptying apt's package cache. To do that open a terminal and run "sudo apt-get clean". If oyou've never donwe that, it should free qiuite a bit of space.

Another thing that might help a bit is uninstalling all the old kernel versions & related packages, as the kernel updates don't replace old version but install alongside it instead. Couple of old kernel versions (plus headers for them) can easily eat a gigabyte or more of space.

After that it's pretty much up to freeing some space from your home directory, at least if your home is located on nthe same partition with the /.

IF you need more help, please run "df -h" and "sudo fdisk -l" in a terminal and post the oputputs here so people can have a better look at your drive/partition layout and how much free/used space they have.

---

### Post by EllieMurasaki on 2012-09-21
I didn't say 489 MB free space. I said 489 MB total space. 289 MB free. According to System Monitor, anyway. No idea why System Monitor disagrees with df -h. And there's nothing in my home directory, I moved what there was to an external hard drive.

elizabeth@io:~$ df -h
Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda1             3.5G  3.0G  325M  91% /
none                  241M  272K  241M   1% /dev
none                  245M  184K  245M   1% /dev/shm
none                  245M   84K  245M   1% /var/run
none                  245M     0  245M   0% /var/lock
none                  245M     0  245M   0% /lib/init/rw
/dev/sdb1              15G   32K   15G   1% /media/50AD-6842
elizabeth@io:~$ sudo fdisk -l
[sudo] password for elizabeth: 

Disk /dev/sda: 4034 MB, 4034838528 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 490 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x0009e1d7

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1         462     3708928   83  Linux
Partition 1 does not end on cylinder boundary.
/dev/sda2             462         491      228353    5  Extended
Partition 2 does not end on cylinder boundary.
/dev/sda5             462         491      228352   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sdb: 15.5 GB, 15493758976 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 1883 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000000

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1        1884    15126528    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
elizabeth@io:~$

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-09-21
Your best bet would be to reinstall Ubuntu with the memory card inserted, and mount /bin, /usr, etc. to a couple partitions on the card.
Or better yet, why not install and boot off the card? Just set it first in your boot options.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-09-21
> I didn't say 489 MB free space. I said 489 MB total space. 289 MB free.
I don't know where you got those numbers from, /dev/sda1 is your root partition, total size 3.5GB, free space 325MB.

Just follow mcduck's suggestions above to get that free space up to 559MB and you're good to go.

---

### Post by EllieMurasaki on 2012-09-21
cortman: worth a shot, thank you.

Cheesemill: like I said, System Monitor. Not something I expected would lie to me.

---

