---
title: "8.04 Hardy - I can no longer print"
date: 2012-08-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by BolinMDT on 2012-08-06
*NOW SOLVED*

Hello everybody, and thanks in advance for any help.

Firstly, I've posted in this section as I'm not really a computer person, although I have been using Ubuntu since 2008 and have successfully fixed problems in the past by Googling the symptoms and trying things that I have read. That doesn't mean that I know what I am doing though! If this is the wrong section then  please could the mods move it? Ta.:)

I can no longer print. Printer is a HP Deskjet F2280, works OK. I can scan with it so communication to/from it via the USB is OK.

If I print from Open Office word processor then the print job says 'processing' but does nothing else.

If I print from Firefox then the print job says 'processing' and then changes to 'stopped' after a short time (1 minute-ish).

I tried re-installing hplip and 3 associated packages but no change.

One thing to note is that my hard drive is pretty much full, I've removed a few bits, now root has 98.2 MiB free, showing 100% full, and home has 548.8MiB free, showing 98% full (tiny disc).

Help greatly appreciated! Many thanks, Bolin.

EDIT: Just spotted my typo in the subject line! Whoops!

---

### Post by tartalo on 2012-08-06
Did you try installing HPlip from HP site? [http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/downloads.html](http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/downloads.html)

---

### Post by BolinMDT on 2012-08-06
Thanks for the reply.

No, I did it through the Synaptic package manager. I'll un-install and re-install from your link.

---

### Post by BolinMDT on 2012-08-06
Well I tried this, I un-installed hplip but unfortunately I couldn't install it through the link above as my computer wouldn't let me save the temporary file (no space on the disk apparently).

I have re-installed via the synaptic package manager, but no change, still won't print.:(

Any ideas?

---

### Post by BolinMDT on 2012-08-06
I have tried to do a test print but the status still just says 'processing' and nothing is printing.......

---

### Post by tartalo on 2012-08-06
If you want to know where the HD space is being used du command is useful, for example: du -h --max-depth=1

If you want to free HD space without thinking a lot, bleachbit does wonders, and I believe it's available for 8.04: [http://bleachbit.sourceforge.net/download/linux](http://bleachbit.sourceforge.net/download/linux)

---

### Post by BolinMDT on 2012-08-07
Thanks for that. I used BleachBit, now root has 94.8MiB free, still showing 100% full though, and home has 1.5GiB free, showing 90% full. I have moved a few things onto a USB stick to free some space.

However, no change with the printing! Still just says 'processing' when trying to print from Open Office word processor and when printing from Firefox, dependin on what I am trying to print it will either still says 'processing' and then say 'stopped' or it will say 'processing' and then disappear.

Ug:confused:

---

### Post by bryncoles on 2012-08-07
Try running the following commands:

```
sudo apt-get autoremove 
sudo apt-get autoclean
sudo apt-get clean
```

It might free up packages you don't need any more, thus freeing up space.  Then again, it might do the same as bleechbit, I'm not sure!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-08-07
8.04 is obsolete, and you might have created a mess by letting the disk run full (there should always be at least 1/5 free).

The commands above are fine, but I recommend a backup and a fresh install of 12.04. If the computer is too old for Ubuntu you could try X/Lubuntu.

Fixed the typo in the title.

---

### Post by tartalo on 2012-08-07
> **BolinMDT said:**
> no change with the printing!

But, did you try using HPlip from HP site? 

I had a very similar issue with an HP printer (forever 'processing') and was solved when I removed the hplip package from the Ubuntu repositories and installed the HPlip package available in HPs site instead.

---

### Post by BolinMDT on 2012-08-07
Many thanks everyone, problem now solved!:-D

It was indeed the hard drive being a bit too full, running the commands posted by bryncoles freed up some more space, so root has now has 361MiB free (95% full).

Oddly, I thought I had run these commands before, after I did a Google search. Perhaps those were different but similar-looking commands.

I didn't reinstall hplip, and it turns out that wasn't the cause.

I will be getting a replacement computer as soon as funds allow, I need a desktop rather a laptop which I currently have, and a 20GB drive just isn't big enough now! Not to mention a couple of hardware problems - dodgy power socket and both screen hinges have broken! New computer will be getting the latest LTS release, when I can afford to buy it:(

Very pleased with Ubuntu overall, this is the first time in over 4 years that I've had to ask for help, and I'm not a computer person by a long way!

Thanks again guys! Much appreciated!

P.S. mörgæs - thanks for fixing the typo!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-08-07
You are welcome. 

I'd recommend a 3-4 years old desktop rather than a new. You can get used gear for a very modest price, and unless you are a hard-core gamer you probably don't need the speed of a cutting edge machine.

Please remember to mark the thread 'solved'.

---

### Post by BolinMDT on 2012-08-08
Thanks for the advice. Yes, cheaper is better for me at the moment, and 3-4 years old will be fine, I think my current machine is nearly 10 years old.

I'll mark the thread solved.

---

