---
title: "11.04 Shotwell Photo Manager"
date: 2011-05-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-25
[SIZE=3]Hello!
Shotwell Photo Manager comes in Ubuntu as the default but is this the best photo/album manager to use with Linux? I noticed Picasa has a Linux version but it is not in the Synaptic or Ubuntu Software Center and hesitant with downloading it from the Google Picasa site.

What other programs do the experienced users recommend? 

Lastly my pics have much overexposure with Shotwell due to flash. How do I decrease the amount of light?

Thanks to all.

gumshoegrant
[/SIZE]

---

### Post by tea for one on 2011-05-25
Good evening

I have used both digiKam and fotoxx, both available via the Software Centre.

These applications have good editing and reasonable organisation features.

If you need more information, have a look at this site:-

[http://linuxappfinder.com/](http://linuxappfinder.com/)

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2011-05-25
I personally like digikam, but it does require a lot of qt libraries. On the gtk/gnome side of ubuntu, I would recommend Rawstudio and UFRaw if your camera utilizes the '**raw**' format.

---

### Post by eric-yorba on 2011-05-25
> **gumshoegrant said:**
> I noticed Picasa has a Linux version but it is not in the Synaptic or Ubuntu Software Center and hesitant with downloading it from the Google Picasa site.
There really isn't a Picasa for Linux so much as Picasa for Windows bundled with Wine. :)

> **gumshoegrant said:**
>  Lastly my pics have much overexposure with Shotwell due to flash. How do I decrease the amount of light?
Double click the photo you want to change, then click Adjust. You can play with the levels to try to make the photo look less overexposed.

Alternately, you can try hitting "Enhance" which will automatically perform the adjustments for you, but it may not give you exactly the result you want.  Still, it's worth a shot.

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2011-05-25
> **eric-yorba said:**
> There really isn't a Picasa for Linux so much as Picasa for Windows bundled with Wine.
Actually, you can get [picasa]("http://picasa.google.com/intl/en/linux/") for linux very easily.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-25
If you don't have Wine already installed....Picassa is a good performer.

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-05-25
Linux Picasa 3 beta is about 2 years old. There has not been any work done on it and I believe I've read somewhere that they don't plan on finishing it. Linux picasa does work very well with linux. Shotwell work good as a photo manager. To work on your files I would recommend gimp. If you use raw format than you should also use ufraw for editing the raw format. There are several raw editors but I like ufraw and gimp. If your into photography there are several linux program, but there not free. Bibble5 and LightZone 3.9 have linux versions of there software but be prepared to pay for them.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-25
> **dFlyer said:**
> Linux Picasa 3 beta is about 2 years old. There has not been any work done on it and I believe I've read somewhere that they don't plan on finishing it. Linux picasa does work very well with linux.Microsoft Word 2007 is more than 4 years old and works great with Wine.MS doesn't plan on finishing that either. Age is irrelevant as the features haven't changed that much to make a difference.

---

### Post by eric-yorba on 2011-05-26
> **AlphaLexman said:**
> Actually, you can get [picasa]("http://picasa.google.com/intl/en/linux/") for linux very easily.
Yes, but my point still stands -- it's just a package that contains Picasa for Windows run via Wine.

---

### Post by eric-yorba on 2011-05-26
> **jtarin said:**
> Microsoft Word 2007 is more than 4 years old and works great with Wine.MS doesn't plan on finishing that either. Age is irrelevant as the features haven't changed that much to make a difference.
Unless you want to use a new camera!

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2011-05-26
> **eric-yorba said:**
> Yes, but my point still stands -- it's just a package that contains Picasa for Windows run via Wine.
No, there is actually a Picasa version for Linux without Wine. See my link in my previous post.

**EDIT:** Attached is a screenshot of Picasa "Help -> About"
**NOTE:**The```
Picasa Version 3.0.0 (Build 57.4402, 0) for [COLOR="Blue"]Linux.[/COLOR]
```

---

### Post by eric-yorba on 2011-05-26
> **AlphaLexman said:**
> No, there is actually a Picasa version for Linux without Wine. See my link in my previous post.

**EDIT:** Attached is a screenshot of Picasa "Help -> About"
**NOTE:**The```
Picasa Version 3.0.0 (Build 57.4402, 0) for [COLOR=Blue]Linux.[/COLOR]
```

Well sure, it SAYS that.  And admittedly they've added some bridge code to make it behave like a native Linux app.  But under the hood, it's still Picasa for Windows running with a bundled Wine installation.  (That's why the UI looks all funny.)

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-05-26
In the end, picassa 3.0 beta may work for you but is beta and not being worked on. Has been beta for 3 years. I'll stick with shotwell and gimp.

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-05-26
> **Blasphemist said:**
> In the end, picassa 3.0 beta may work for you but is beta and not being worked on. Has been beta for 3 years. I'll stick with shotwell and gimp.

+1 for shotwell and gimp. I use to use picasa 2.7 and beta 3.0 for linux for photo printing mainly, but now just use shotwell, gimp, b5 and lightzone.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-27
> **dFlyer said:**
> +1 for shotwell and gimp. I use to use picasa 2.7 and beta 3.0 for linux for photo printing mainly, but now just use shotwell, gimp, b5 and lightzone.

Thanks!

---

