---
title: "8.04 upgrade questions"
date: 2008-08-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by hiloguy on 2008-08-01
I'm running 7.04 and it works flawlessly.

If I upgrade to 8.04, will I lose all my existing configurations, like my wireless adapter (that was real tricky to get working?  Also, to properly run PhotoShop, I installed CrossOver (I know, shame on me, but this is what allowed me to dump Windoze).  Will I have to re-install it, and PhotoShop?

If I'm going to have to deal with all that, I should do a clean install and start over, right?

What the heck, I need a few days off anyway!

Thanks for any input!

---

### Post by scragar on 2008-08-01
I'm not sure about your wireless, there are conflicting reports on things like that working after an upgrade(depending on the install method), but the rest of your settings, install aps etc should all be perfectly fine.

---

### Post by red_Marvin on 2008-08-01
Well if you have done a lot of "unstandard" installations, like compiling from source et cetera (you describing wireless as "tricky" make me suspect that that is such a case), things may break when updating and a clean install might be recommended.

---

### Post by bobbob1016 on 2008-08-01
First, I think you'd have to go 7.04 to 7.10 to 8.04, not 100% on that.  Your settings as in desktop settings, backgrounds, firefox, and those settings should be ok, but I don't think the wireless will be there.  HOWEVER, the wifi might work out of the box now, so this might not be a bad thing.  I'd suggest booting from a Hardy LiveCD to see if your wifi still work.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-08-01
> First, I think you'd have to go 7.04 to 7.10 to 8.04

If you have Feisty that is a way to do upgrade.You can not skip version.If you have separate home just install Hardy on top of Feisty(try Hardy from live CD first as suggested),and if you don´t have separate home make one following [this]("http://psychocats.s465.sureserver.com/ubuntu/separatehome") guide.

---

### Post by hiloguy on 2008-08-01
Wow!  Thanks everybody for all the quick assists!  So one more question regarding upgrading in steps to 8.04.  Is it likely that doing so then has twice the opportunity for glitches to happen?  Would I just be ahead, quality of the install considered, to do a clean install of 8.04 and hope for the best?  As one of you said, my wireless might work out of the box this time, and that really was the most difficult thing to get going.

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-08-01
If it ain't broke don't fix it!

---

### Post by kostkon on 2008-08-01
> **hiloguy said:**
> Wow!  Thanks everybody for all the quick assists!  So one more question regarding upgrading in steps to 8.04.  Is it likely that doing so then has twice the opportunity for glitches to happen?  Would I just be ahead, quality of the install considered, to do a clean install of 8.04 and hope for the best?  As one of you said, my wireless might work out of the box this time, and that really was the most difficult thing to get going.
I did the *7.04 -> 7.10 -> 8.04* upgrade in a period of just two days (i.e. I used 7.10 only for 2 days) and everything went fine.

---

### Post by hiloguy on 2009-04-12
Well, I solved the problem with a clean install of 8.10 and I love it! Imagine my surprise and delight when Ubuntu found and recognized all my stuff and it wall all working on the first boot!  Even my wireless card was recognized (this is a laptop, too) and Ubuntu found my network (and my neighbor's) straight away.  That was my biggest trepidation about a clean install, as it took hours to get the wifi working with 6.10.  I'm a happy camper.  Once again, I did install Crossover and my Adobe apps are working glitch-free.  Bye-bye Windoze!  

As usual, thanks to everybody on this amazing forum for all the help.  Couldn't have done it without y'all!

---

