---
title: "10.10 total newb restarted, command line instead of login dialogue box starts?"
date: 2011-03-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by apokorney on 2011-03-31
I've been using Ubuntu 10.10 for a few hours now, and have enjoyed my time with it thus far. Keeping in mind I'm an absolute newb; 

I restarted the physical machine, and instead of a login dialogue box, a command line starts (instead of the purple OS screen asking for u/s and p/w, I'm getting a black terminal screen). Is it necessary to use a command from this terminal screen to 'log' back into the desktop?

Thanks in advance, I have no idea what I'm doing.

---

### Post by Ocxic on 2011-03-31
It should go back to the graphical login. try rebooting the machine once more, if that doesn't work login using the command line and run
"sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade && sudo reboot"
that will update your machine and restart, it's always worked for me.

---

### Post by apokorney on 2011-03-31
Appreciate the response, 

I've restarted to no avail, and ran the "sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade && sudo reboot"/restart, and am coming back to the command line log in.

When using the "startx" option, I'm getting a "Fatal server error: no screens found" message. Is there a known fix for this error? This seems to be the error in getting back to the graphical login.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-03-31
Post back the output of lspci so we can see what video adapter/chipset you have, then we can go from there.

---

### Post by apokorney on 2011-03-31
Ok, ill give it a shot; 

00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 631xESB/632xESB/3100 Chipset UHCI USB
Controller #4 (rev 09)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Interl Corporation 631xESB/632xESB/3100 Chipset EHCI USB2
Controller (rev 09)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev d9)
00:1f.0 ISA brdige: Intel Corporation 631xESB/632xESB/3100 Chipset LPC Interface
Controller (rev 09)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 631xESB/632xESB IDE Controller (rev 09)
00:1f.2 RAID bus controller: Intel Corporation 631xESB/632xESB SATA RAID conrol
ler (rev 09)
10:00.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6311ESB/6321ESB PCI Express Upstream Port
(rev 01)
10:00.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6311ESB/6321ESB PCI Express to PCI-X Bridg
e (rev 01)
1e:00.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6311ESB/6321ESB PCI Express Downstream Por
t E1 (rev 01)
1e:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6311ESB/6321ESB PCI Express Downstream Por
t E2 (rev 01)
1f:00.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme BCM752 Gigabit Ethe
rnet PCI Express (rev 01)
40:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV44 [Quadro NVS 285] (rev
a1)
60:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV44 [Quadro NVS 285] )rev
a1)

Thanks.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-04-01
I don't know if you are using dual video cards, but it looks like there may be more than 1.  Both are the same nVidia adapter:
 
40:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV44 [Quadro NVS 285] (rev
a1)
60:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV44 [Quadro NVS 285] )rev
a1
 
I personally am not familiar with your adapter, but there have been many posts here about getting nVidia driver.  What I would suggest is 2-fold:
 
- search the forum for nVidia driver posts
 
- wait for someone who knows more about nVidia adapters to post back
 
At least now we've identified the controller, so hopefully someone with more knowledge can help you.

---

### Post by Zintha on 2011-04-01
This might not be relevent, noob here too. 

I've had a similar issue.
CTRL+ALT+F5 through to F10 I think it is.

Its different terminals, happened to me before, I hit CTRL+ALT+F10 (I think) and it loaded up the graphical display.

No idea why it happened or if this is the same problem but it sounds similar.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-04-01
I apologize for bumping this thread, but it's getting to be the time of day where someone may be around to help the OP.
 
It appears to me they need some form of nVidia driver, but I don't know anything about those and was hoping someone else could help them.

---

