---
title: ".zip file issues"
date: 2010-08-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by BJones007 on 2010-08-31
I keep receiving this message whenever I try to open a .zip file.



Archive:  /home/bjones/Dropbox/DUPT/1.0.zip
[/home/bjones/Dropbox/DUPT/1.0.zip]
  End-of-central-directory signature not found.  Either this file is not
  a zipfile, or it constitutes one disk of a multi-part archive.  In the
  latter case the central directory and zipfile comment will be found on
  the last disk(s) of this archive.
zipinfo:  cannot find zipfile directory in one of /home/bjones/Dropbox/DUPT/1.0.zip or
          /home/bjones/Dropbox/DUPT/1.0.zip.zip, and cannot find /home/bjones/Dropbox/DUPT/1.0.zip.ZIP, period.



I don't understand what that means :S

---

### Post by spjackson on 2010-08-31
It means that there was an error when the .zip file was created or downloaded; it isn't a valid .zip file.

---

### Post by pmlxuser on 2010-08-31
if its just that zip file then above post +1
else if you try another file and another and another and still get the same error share because you might have discovered a bug...

---

### Post by jtarin on 2010-08-31
As the message states its either not a .zip file or its only part of a mult-part archive, which means it was a large file to begin with and when it was aipped it was split into several smaller .zip files to allow for easier transport. You must download all archives that are part of this larger one and place them in the same folder for the zip process to recognize the complete archive and unzip to begin correctly. The part you downloaded...1.0.zip...si probably the first part. maybe if you gave a link to your download I could tell you better.

---

### Post by BJones007 on 2010-09-01
> **spjackson said:**
> It means that there was an error when the .zip file was created or downloaded; it isn't a valid .zip file.
Yeah, I tried opening another zip file and it worked. Guess it was corrupted. Thanks

---

