---
title: "10.04 Does not work"
date: 2010-05-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by unnivat on 2010-05-18
I am a biginer in UBUNTU. I have only Ubuntu OS in my desktop. The first installation has been version 9.04. Then I installed  9.10 side by side. Both were working quite nicely. Then I tried to upgrade my second intallation 9.10 to 10.04 online. The installtion went off smoothly. But I find that there must have been some errors happend during the installation of ver 10.04. Because now the 10.04 installation does not come up; ie. booting is not possible with that. If at all possible I am getting initially a magnified screen with two images of the screen one overlapping the other. This has created great trouble for me as many of my files are in the second partition which now  cannot access since the 10.4 OS has failed to boot. Please help me to atleast recover my files in the second partition where 10.04 resides.

Following is my fstab

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'vol_id --uuid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# / was on /dev/sda6 during installation
UUID=010bc362-99b6-4ad0-ab92-e7d6b699dcdb /               ext3    relatime,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda7 during installation
UUID=65140798-a9c1-4ba7-be03-ec1c50f97fc7 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd1       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2010-05-18
Hi, do you have a LiveCD of 9.10?

If you do boot up using this CD and you should have access to your partitions then its a matter of copying (or moving) your files to a USB memory stick.

You can then use the LiveCD to re-install 9.10 back on your system.

---

### Post by unnivat on 2010-05-18
> **Linux_junkie said:**
> Hi, do you have a LiveCD of 9.10?

If you do boot up using this CD and you should have access to your partitions then its a matter of copying (or moving) your files to a USB memory stick.

You can then use the LiveCD to re-install 9.10 back on your system.

Thanks Linux_junkie. I do not have a Live Cd of 9.10. So what to do?

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2010-05-18
Have you any LiveCD's? say of 9.04? Or are you still able to boot in to 9.04?

---

### Post by unnivat on 2010-05-18
> **Linux_junkie said:**
> Have you any LiveCD's? say of 9.04? Or are you still able to boot in to 9.04?

I have an ubuntu 9.04 Desktop Edition CD with me. Also I can login to my system using already installed 9.04version. I am connected to the net using that only right now.

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2010-05-18
You should be able to access the other partition (the one you attempted to install 10.04), if so copy (or move) your files to a suitable storage device.

Can you gain access to the other partition?

---

### Post by Catharsis on 2010-05-19
Sounds like a graphics driver problem (story of my life with Lucid). What graphics card do you have?
```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

