---
title: "13.10 skype"
date: 2013-10-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Rrory on 2013-10-24
I upgraded to 13.10 fine, youtube works great. Then today I tried to use Skype and there was this loud buzzing static sound. I checked sound in 'options' and Skype says i have Pulse Audio running and I should turn it down or go to my Desktop Manager Volume control and turn it down. Well for Skype down means turning the output to off to get rid of the sound. When I exit Skype and adjust "Sound" to normal settings my sound is just fine on youtube, rhythmbox etc...

---

### Post by peter_f_calder on 2013-10-25
Hi 

I have the very same fault.

I went into Options, sound devices. First i did a test did a test sound that was OK also Login/ Logout all OK.  But still the sound is buzzing, PulseAudio is the sound driver in Option, sound devices. Banshee is the sound driver.   

I tried using VLC to play a film and the sound is perfect. 

Anybody got any ideas as the Skype Forum is a waste of time.

Peterfc

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-10-25
See this.

[http://www.webupd8.org/2013/10/get-sound-working-in-skype-with-ubuntu.html?m=1](http://www.webupd8.org/2013/10/get-sound-working-in-skype-with-ubuntu.html?m=1)

---

### Post by peter_f_calder on 2013-10-25
Hi

I have just tried what Philinux advised but Skype won't open. How do i completely remove from my machine for a fresh install?

Peterfc

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-10-25
> **peter_f_calder said:**
> Hi

I have just tried what Philinux advised but Skype won't open. How do i completely remove from my machine for a fresh install?

Peterfc
Which bit of the fix did you use?

To remove skype.
In a terminal.

```
sudo apt-get purge skype
```

---

### Post by peter_f_calder on 2013-10-25
Hi Philinux

Sorry i missed putting that in. I did the option Below.

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install skype

I am sure now that i will be OK following what you advised,

Peterfc

---

### Post by jweber53 on 2013-10-25
Installing skype from the skype site results in no sound.
I installed using the partner repo method from the link given above. I now have sound, but it's garbled and distorted. I started skype with this command and now it works fine.

```

  Exec=/usr/bin/env PULSE_LATENCY_MSEC=30 /usr/bin/skype

```

---

### Post by Rrory on 2013-10-30
> **philinux said:**
> See this.

[http://www.webupd8.org/2013/10/get-sound-working-in-skype-with-ubuntu.html?m=1](http://www.webupd8.org/2013/10/get-sound-working-in-skype-with-ubuntu.html?m=1)

Philinux you're a doll. I did just as the link said, purged Skype from the terminal & did the rest, installing from the repository. Works perfectly. I don't know where the SOLVE button is, but this issue is solved!
thanks!
rory

---

### Post by Baldrick_NZ on 2013-11-01
> **Rrory said:**
>  I don't know where the SOLVE button is...
thanks!
rory

Great stuff!

Almost at the top of the page under 'Thread Tools'. :-)

---

### Post by jeliocranch on 2014-03-18
I'm stumped with this.
I have 13.10.  I've installed skype, from both the repository and from skype.com.  I've removed and purged after each failed attempt.  I've tried the suggested workarounds mentioned above.  Still no sound.

The mic picks up sound input, and the speakers play sounds from any other application.

This system is a pre-built desktop from ZAREASON, with 13.10 pre-installed.

I've setup skype successfully 4 other times on 13.10 machines, the difference being Ubuntu was installed from scratch on scratch built machines.
Any help?

---

