---
title: "DNS Problem"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by choochoo22 on 2009-05-08
I can't seem to get DNS working.  Ubuntu connects to my local network and local systems are accessable.  I can access yahoo.com by IP but not by name.  I entered the IP for my DNS server in the the network connections dialog.  It seems correct and is the same DNS IP that I am using on this vista computer but it doesn't work in firefox.  Any suggestions?

On a related question; what is the proper way to enter multiple DNS IPs in the network connection dialog?

---

### Post by mechdave on 2009-05-08
I usually set up my modem so the DHCP server is running, then you should get all your DNS info automatically. The other way of doing it is by editing the /etc/resolv.conf file by hand and entering the DNS there. The only problem with that is that the system will overwrite your /etc/resolv.conf whenever it connects to a network (either wired or wireless).

---

### Post by choochoo22 on 2009-05-08
DHCP is disabled on my router for a reason and the network connections dialog was used to give the system a fixed IP address manually, which works.  Also in that dialog is an entry for DNS, but the value doesn't seem to "take".  Entering the same DNS IP that is working on this vista system and worked _once_ on a live CD, seems to have no effect in the Jaunty HD installation.

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-05-09
try adding DNS servers this way [http://www.prash-babu.com/2008/04/how-to-configure-dns-servers-in-linux.html](http://www.prash-babu.com/2008/04/how-to-configure-dns-servers-in-linux.html) .. if not you could edit the /etc/resolv.conf file

---

### Post by choochoo22 on 2009-05-09
I tried editing the dhclient.conf file as suggested in the link, it made no difference.  After rebooting, still no difference.  Perhaps it would be usefull to compare the Windows settings, which work, to the Ubuntu setings, which don't work on the same computer with the same router and other external environment.

[ATTACH]112982[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]112983[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by uncannybuzzard on 2009-05-09
> **choochoo22 said:**
> I tried editing the dhclient.conf file as suggested in the link, it made no difference.  After rebooting, still no difference.  Perhaps it would be usefull to compare the Windows settings, which work, to the Ubuntu setings, which don't work on the same computer with the same router and other external environment.

[ATTACH]112982[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]112983[/ATTACH]

have you tried adding them to your /etc/resolv.conf file? should look something like this:


```
@JEEZI-CREEZI ~ $ cat /etc/resolv.conf 
search xx-xy.org
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220

```

---

### Post by Pjotrovitz on 2009-05-09
I do'nt know if it helps, but you can add several dns adresses by separating them with commas like this:
[IMG]http://pjotrovitz.gotdns.org/pics/screen2.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by choochoo22 on 2009-05-09
cat /etc/resolv.conf yielded:

```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 206.13.28.12
```

DNS is still not working

I used network manager to add the second server as suggested by Pjotrovitz and examined resolv.conf again.  I expected it to show both servers but it had not changed.  I re-booted to see if that would update resolv.conf, it did.  Resolv.conf now shows:

```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 206.13.31.12
nameserver 206.13.28.12
```

Now DNS works and I am writing this post in firefox on Jaunty!

I can think of no reason why that fixed the problem.  The only explanation that comes to mind is that the 206.13.28.12 server was not responding.  In working through this problem, however, at various times I had tried both of those servers and one of the openDNS servers as well.

I am always uncomfortable when things fix themselves for no apparent reason because, of course, they can unfix themselves just as easily.  For the time being at least, this problem is solved.  Thank you all for your help.

---

