---
title: "8.04 failure to complete installation"
date: 2009-07-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by David99 on 2009-07-30
I have been a Ubuntu 'onlooker' for some time - trying versions 'live' but always too nervous to install in case my PC went 'poof' and the whole thing disappeared.   Each version has always worked well - up to 6.06 Desktop - connected to the Internet, the whole thing worked.   I took it that this meant Ubuntu recognized all my hardware and was happy with it.
Recently, I got a second Hard Drive installed.   I felt that this gave me the opportunity to install Ubuntu with less risk to my ongoing Windows-based system on the 'other' Hard Drive.   6.06 wnt live on this new system.   Using an '8.04 LTS Desktop Edition' disk which I got from Ubuntu, I had problems.   Wondering whether the disc was defective, I downloaded 8.10 and tried to bring up a live version off this disc.   Same problem.

What happens is that the disc starts in my CD drive, I confirm English as my language, the Ubuntu moving bar works and then fills up; the screen goes black and is replaced with the Ubuntu coffee-coloured screen with the cursor flashing in it.   The things goe hay-wire:  at the foot of the screen a bar of flickering lines appears, the same things happens at the top of the screen, the entire body of the screen coffee colour darkens slightly and the flickering of diagonal lines moving from right to left takes over the entire screen.   This condition appears to continue indefinitely.   There is no response to the key-board.   In particular the Alt-Ctl-Delete gets no response.   The CD drawer will not open.   My worst fears have materialized - my PC has take control of itself!!    Finally, in desperation, I press thelittle reset button and a degree of normalcy returns - the CD drawer will open so I can snatch back my rogue Ubuntu disk, my PC reboots and I am reduced to being relieved to see my Pc operating normally - even if under the dreaded Windows banner.

I have XP running SP@.   I am not detailing my hardware, assuming that the acceptance of 6.06 and predecessor versions confirms that my hardware is Ububtu acceptable?
I have tried to find my solution in Uvuntu Documentation and Forums - to no avail.   I just hope my query is in acceptable format - the cry of a total newbie!!

Caqn you, please, tell me how to overcome this problem and/or how to avoid it in future?   Ought I to install 6.06 and give up dreams of a later version??   Or what??

Thank you for your patience with my lengthy outline and for the help I eagerly await.

---

### Post by Humanum on 2009-07-30
Why don't you install 6.10 and upgrade from that to the 8.04 ?

That's probably one of the safest ways to do it and probably if there's a problem related to your computer somehow somewhere you will get the warning while upgrading.

---

### Post by David99 on 2009-08-05
Thank you for  your help, which I will follow up on.   I had hope to have to confront the challenge of installation only once, ending up with a brand new, shiny Ubuntu!

---

### Post by halitech on 2009-08-05
6.10 and up to 7.10 are no longer supported so installing 6.10 and then upgrading is not a good idea. 6.06 being an LTS is still supported so you could try installing it then upgrading to 8.04 and then to 8.10 but if the 8.04 and 8.10 live cds are giving you problems, there is probably a reason for it, most likely hardware related. 

List your hardware specs (especially the video card) and we'll see what we can suggest on getting things installed properly.

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-08-05
> **halitech said:**
>  

List your hardware specs (especially the video card) and we'll see what we can suggest on getting things installed properly.

OP stated in OP that hardware would not be listed or conveyed

so...

why bother?

.

---

### Post by SuaSwe on 2009-08-05
Here's someone with a similar-sounding problem:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-859564.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-859564.html)

I had this problem when trying to get Ubuntu 8.04 installed on an ancient laptop with a strongly below-par graphics card, and found that going for the Safe Graphics Mode (hit F4 during initial setup) and giving it a good while to just run did the trick... eventually. 

What are the specs on the machine? Maybe go for Xubuntu instead as it's a little less resource-heavy?

---

### Post by halitech on 2009-08-05
> **LewRockwell said:**
> OP stated in OP that hardware would not be listed or conveyed

so...

why bother?

.

because I can and if the OP is unwilling to help us to help him/her by giving us their specs then they are going to get very little help other then random, possibly useless assistance.

---

### Post by SuaSwe on 2009-08-06
Chances are the computer isn't quite up to scratch but maybe with graphics on Safe Mode and with giving it a bit of time...?

---

