---
title: "20.04 - Can't install deb files?  Really?"
date: 2020-10-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bluegoon on 2020-10-09
I tried to download and install a copy of Atom in .deb format, among others, the Ubuntu software center just spits out an error saying the file is not supported.... Okay?

Trying to search for Atom on the Software Center is a miserable experience, it just times out searching for anything..

So I'm kind of stuck now..

Thanks.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-10-09
You don't have to use the Software Centre.

An `apt-cache search atom` query offered me 366 entries (including libraries & a lot of packages that included the word '*atom*' in their description somewhere).

I personally like the *Software Boutique* that comes with Ubuntu-MATE (though it's more of a hassle to install if you're not using MATE), though loads of other options exist too (Discover).

Next there are package managers both for GUI (*Synaptic*, *Muon*) or CLI (*aptitude*; which is by far what I'd use the most if not using commands)

If you're after a Snap, you can use  [SnapCraft]("https://snapcraft.io/store") via a browser, let alone via command as well (with some options showing in previously mentioned stores (discover etc)

My point is you have choices. Package level tools are by far the fastest.

*FYI: the reason I like about Software Boutique is it's lists of software include vetted 3rd party sources for many products, and will add the required PPA or source when you pick software automatically; other options don't do that).*

---

### Post by T6&amp;sfpER35% on 2020-10-09
also see [here](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-atom-text-editor-on-ubuntu-20-04/)

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2020-10-09
```

sudo dpkg -i /path/to/filename.deb
sudo apt -f install

```

Very simple. The second command attempts to resolve the deps that may be needed

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2020-10-09
```
sudo apt install /path/to/file.deb
```should do. apt can automatically fetch the dependencies when you install a .deb file, where dpkg needs apt to fix dependencies later. That's all assuming it's a valid .deb file. If it's not or dependencies can't be satisfied, apt will give an error.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2020-10-09
From the link provided by The south African it is clear that the deb version of Atom is not available in the Ubuntu repositories. For that matter neither is the Google Chrome web browser. We have to add a specific repository to our software sources to install applications of this kind.

The Ubuntu software centre will offer to install the snap version of Atom provided we search for atom text editor. In fact there are 2 versions available.

So, we can install deb files in Ubuntu 20.04 just like always. And just like always not all deb files are in Ubuntu repositories.

Regards

---

