---
title: "10.4 Live CD"
date: 2010-06-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rajendran_babu on 2010-06-09
Hi I am trying to boot from the Live CD of 10.4

As per the [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootFromCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootFromCD) link, it is supposed to show me a screen to choose Install or Try it..

But when i boot from cd, it directly goes to a Log In window asking for username , password..

What is the default username and password ?

---

### Post by nhasian on 2010-06-09
are you sure you are not booting to the hard disk?

if you boot from the ubuntu 10.04 Desktop Edition LiveCD, then you will be prompted to try it or install it, and also to choose a language at the beginning of the installation process, etc.

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2010-06-09
What operating system is on the computer?  From your post I wonder if you have arranged the correct booting sequence.  Check the sequence to make sure that the CD is before the hard drive.  If you have the hard drive first then I don't believe that you will be able to boot from a live CD.  Just change the order.
Got beat out because of my typing skills (or lack of them to be more precise.)

---

### Post by rajendran_babu on 2010-06-09
Yes.. I am pretty sure, the laptop has windows xp on it, i popped in the cd and restarted the system.. it didnt ask for language or try or install..

it showed me a ubuntu login screen right away..

i tried cutom , ubuntu, guest etc.. then i clicked restart, the cd got popped out and showed me a message to remove the disk and press enter.. i did and it restarted in windows xp without any issues.. but i want to try ubuntu as live cd from the laptop

---

### Post by jarviser on 2010-06-09
What I do is..
Open the CD drawer in XP then SHUT DOWN the PC, NEVER restart.
Insert the Live CD and close drawer.
Press the On button and immediately hit F12 a few times until it says something like "Setting up boot drive sequence" or similar.
Select the CD ROM drive from the list and hit enter.
It should then boot properly into the Ubuntu live CD.

---

### Post by VicVega123 on 2010-07-13
I just had the same problem. No countdown timer, the LiveCD really wants a username and password. And no, I have no other OSes on the machine, just some disks with random files. Any ideas?

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-07-13
1. As soon as you see the purple screen press any key to get the normal menu.

2. Username ubuntu password leave blank.

---

