---
title: "8.10 problems with install"
date: 2009-03-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Suharpy on 2009-03-31
Hi I just downloaded Ubuntu last night because I am trying out different linux distributions to see what I like the best and what works best for my computer from initial install, i mean if it works then i can learn how, but if it doesn't work i get stuck quick since i'm still learning the terminology in play.

Anyway I created the CD and tried to install it onto a hard drive by itself after I verified the disk (one of the options after booting from it.) Looks good.  I choose to install and then I believe it is attempting to launch the x server and my monitor goes black. Since I have ATI Sapphire HD3870 dual head video card (i believe thats right) i switched my monitors around and still neither one displays the graphical install screen I found when referring to the ubuntu getting started area in the website.

I found and downloaded the "alternate cd" which I had much more success with, it didnt really use a x server to set up the install so I got it all set up successfully, yay!.  

However when it boots into ubuntu now it goes directly to the black screen, where there is supposed to be the x server.  If I switch to a different terminal via ctrl+alt+F1 etc, i can use bash and do some stuff, but I can't find the information I need regarding my problem.

Can anyone post some links for me or point me in the right direction?  I tried some searching on the forum but to no avail I cant quite put into correct terms my problem. lol

---

### Post by Malta paul on 2009-03-31
Welcome, you may like to check out this link:
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/index](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/index)
And this [http://www.ubuntupocketguide.com/](http://www.ubuntupocketguide.com/)

Good luck :)

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2009-03-31
try noapic - and google for your video card and issues with linux.

---

### Post by Suharpy on 2009-04-01
So I have checked out the pocket book and I have attempted to boot with the "noapic" option. I am not sure if i got it to work right when i went to go edit the option again later to turn it off (on) it was already gone, like default.

Anyway I learned a little about this "xorg.conf" ******* and I checked mine out after doing the dpkg reconfigure xserver-xorg, and it added some data to my xorg.conf, But compared to previous xorgs i've had.... mine is really messed up like theres not really anything in there... no monitor no resolution no driver settings.... which led me to check my dmsg, and that showed me a lot of my hardware and stuff but at no point did i recognise my video card... it found my TV card and a lot of other stuff, but i didn't see anything about any ATI stuff. So that kind of explains why i dont get to use X server and kind of also explains why i had to use an alternate cd to install to my system.  I have had some versions of Debian (i think 4.0 lenny testing distro) work well with my computer, like my X server worked just not with 3d stuff and i couldn't quite get compiz to work. The Debian that came out on 12/18 couldn't detect my hard drive so i never got that installed. Which led me to Ubuntu, and I really like what i've read about it. I can get used to sudo-ing and stuff...

As far as why I can't get my xorg to work or why my dmsg doesn't have stuff for my video card... I don't know what to do.  Can someone please point me in another right direction? =P

:o

---

### Post by Suharpy on 2009-04-01
I apologize for my super long posts, its just I get off work around this time and cant think straight.

More specifically I will do what it takes to get Ubuntu to work for me.  I need a little help ensuring that I am booting with the "noapic" option.  That may bring remedy to my situation, or so I am told.  Otherwise if someone wants to reccomend another course of action let me know.  I have a few different computers and stuff with different operating systems so i can tinker and read at the same time, I bet i could even get Lynx to work so i dont have to go back and forth.

If anyone has something for me, let me know.  I'll figure out how to post my xorg and dmesg soon =)

---

### Post by Suharpy on 2009-04-01
Well after looking through the Ubuntu Pocket Guide and trying out the replies on this thread, I have had no luck and am having trouble finding the next step.

A little note I didn't really notice any difference when I attempted adding "noapic" to my /boot/grub/menu.lst kernel options.
(Therefore, I replaced it with the original)

So basically when the computer boots up, or even when i tried to install via the Ubuntu Cd, the monitor turns from green circle to orange circle, and I dont see anything. If I go to a different terminal, (CTRL ALT F1 for example) the button then turns green and i am able to see my shell.

*cry*

---

### Post by Suharpy on 2009-04-01
I have found a way to resolve my issue... I downloaded the 8.04.2 cd and its X server works like a champ.  Managed to install my ATI drivers and get compiz working properly for the first time in my life, four distrobutions later.  Ubuntu is pretty cool and now I have a wonderful opportunity to learn and enjoy linux with graphics, sound, hell even my clock works.

Thanks for the few who replied and tried to help me out.

---

