---
title: "Help setting up dual monitors with ATI card?"
date: 2008-08-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Trip6 on 2008-08-11
I'm trying to make the transition to Ubuntu, I really enjoy it. However I've grown used to using a dual monitor setup with Windows over the last two years. The problem is I can't seem to get my setup working with Ubuntu and I've tried to follow the various tutorials online, but the problem is that they all have a high level of presumed knowledge of the user. I have no idea what they are saying. 

Is there a tutorial that anyone knows of for this type of thing where it's explained VERY basically? After all I haven't had much experience with it because I can't use both of my monitors.

---

### Post by tech0007 on 2008-08-11
It would help if you can post your spec. Run:

lspci | grep VGA

Also, post your xorg.conf.

---

### Post by Trip6 on 2008-08-12
Running lspci | grep VGA gives me:

02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon HD 2400 XT

This is my xorg:
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

```

I've just finished another clean install. I've been trying to figure this out on my own but every time I do something, even as simple as load new drivers for my video card, I end up with a white screen of death from which I don't know how to recover other than doing a fresh install. I've now used EnvyNG to download and install my ATI drivers. Things seem to be working fine but I still can't set my dual screen options the way I want them.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-08-12
If you have the drivers from envy, you should be able to find the Catalyst Control Center hiding in Applicatons/Other. I say hiding because this menu is usually hidden by deafult. You can look with System/Preferences/Main Menu and see if that is so or you can just type

amdcccle

in a terminal to get it to open. In there you will find the display manager. You can tell it to detect displays, enable them, and switch them around and set big dektop. Just clik apply and if the sreen doesn't totally freak out you will see a box "accept these settings" or something like that. Just click OK and reboot or crl-alt-backspace to rest the x server(quick and dirty, does not save anything).

---

### Post by Trip6 on 2008-08-13
Thanks. I spent about eight hours trying to configure everything last night and I feel like my head is going to explode. Every time the display would mess up I'd have to do a clean install and go through the whole process, then I figured out how to restore my xorg from the command line and that made things a bit easier. I did manage to finally get my dual display working, but it's not working properly. 

I have one 17" widescreen LCD monitor and one standard 19" CRT monitor. The display on my LCD is now stretched and makes my eyes bleed. I've been searching around and trying to find a solution but no luck so far. Everything I've tried has pretty much caused Ubuntu to restart in "low graphics mode". 

Just wanted to say thanks for the help.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-08-13
One place that will gove you a lot of information about what is going wrong with your video driver is the Xorg.0.log. You can find it in System/Administration/System Log. Another thing, you can always try logging in in gnome safe mode if the login screen is OK. Just click the little icon on the bottom left of the login screen. Then you can see your logs which wiill tell you what's wrong.

---

