---
title: "12.04 Will Not Shut Down"
date: 2012-06-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rbscairns on 2012-06-26
I am using Ubuntu 12.04 with Gnome Classic on an Asus eee Box B202.

I click on the screen's top righ-hand icon and then select [Shut Down...]. The Shut Down window opens and I select [Shut Down]. The system then does not shut down but rather goes to the login screen.

The only way I have found to shut down my computer is to press the computer's power button, but this does not power off the computer. To power off the computer I have to disconnect the power cable!

Is there an easier way to shut down and power off my computer?

---

### Post by na5h on 2012-06-26
Open up a terminal (CTRL+ALT+T) and run the following command:
```
sudo shutdown -P now
```
This should bring down the system and power off the computer.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-06-26
+1 that. 
It is not a solution to the actual problem you have, but it is a safe and tidy way to shut down the system until you can get the problem with the shut down button sorted out.

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-06-26
You can try this solution 

1) open terminal and ```
sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```

2) Find the line **GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"** and make it exactly like this 
**GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi=force"**
save the document and then

3) ```
sudo update-grub
```
reboot and see if shutdown work.

---

### Post by rbscairns on 2012-06-26
This problem has been with me for over a week, when I first did a clean install of Ubuntu 12.04. I had previously research the problem and some days ago amended the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT in /etc/default/grub and updated grub. This did not solve the problem, however I left the amendment in /etc/default/grub.

After my original post, the only change I made was to I installed numlockx and ameded /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf to turn numlock on for use in the login screen. After that, for some unknown reason, my Ubuntu 12.04 now properly shuts down.

Ubunto 12.04 is "MAGIC"!

---

