---
title: "11.04 (live)cd boot problems"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Toafan on 2011-04-29
I've been trying to do a clean install of 11.04 on my laptop, but it seems to be out to confound me. The first time I booted it from a live CD (about a week ago, while it was in beta), it worked fine. The next day, it failed.
I doggedly tried it several more times, but it still didn't work, so I tried burning a new copy of the CD. That didn't work either. So I resolved to wait for the official release.
Unfortunately, that's not working either. I burned two different CDs of the release version, but neither of them worked. I have gotten the same error from both of those, but not every time. Sometimes I get error messages, other times I don't. Sometimes I even get to the GUI window where it gives me the option to try or install Ubuntu, but I haven't gotten past that point since last Wednesday. 
Between four CDs and successfully using one of them on a different computer, I'm sure the problem isn't any of the CDs. I'm at a loss.
I was originally trying to put 11.04 on a separate partition on my drive, but at this point I'm also interested if I can upgrade my existing install (10.10) from the CD, even though I can't boot from it, rather than over the Internet.
Any ideas?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-04-29
HAve you tried setting nomodeset from the main menu screen? If not, press the any key when you see the keyboard and little man, then press F6 and select nomodeset from the menu, then press esc to exit and enter to continue.

---

