---
title: "9.10 - No Pidgin?"
date: 2010-02-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by temporos on 2010-02-10
I remember from previous installations that Pidgin was the default (and pre-installed) chat client with Ubuntu.  But when I installed the netbook remix on my... well... netbook (what else, heh), the default chat client was "Empathy."  I've been using Empathy, and I've noticed that it is very limited in terms of text formatting, file transfers, etc..  Why did Ubuntu make the switch to Empathy?

---

### Post by Kenny_Strawn on 2010-02-10
Probably because of the switch to Mono, but I could be wrong.

---

### Post by laurielegit on 2010-02-10
Why did ubuntu do anything ever? Because it has to maintain it's reputation for being rather perverse at times :)

---

### Post by Tibuda on 2010-02-10
> **Kenny_Strawn said:**
> Probably because of the switch to Mono, but I could be wrong.

No, it has nothing to do with Mono. Empathy does not use Mono, and Mono is included before the switch to Empathy.

I think the switch has something to do with the telepathy library that would allow other apps to interact with your IM contacts, like playing games, sharing music, etc. The idea is that while Pidgin is more feature-rich, they think Empathy have more potential.

---

### Post by bytor4232 on 2010-02-11
Simple, just use Pidgin.  Its easy to install from the software center / synaptic.  There is nothing stopping you.  I don't like empathy, and use Pidgin instead.

---

### Post by temporos on 2010-02-11
> **bytor4232 said:**
> Simple, just use Pidgin.  Its easy to install from the software center / synaptic.  There is nothing stopping you.  I don't like empathy, and use Pidgin instead.
Oh, I'm not complaining. :) I was just curious about why the Ubuntu gods switched from Pidgin to a client that (at the moment) is less feature-rich.  Apparently Empathy has more potential (from what I've read here).

---

### Post by durand on 2010-02-11
Yeah, telepathy/empathy is definitely future-proof but it lacks basic features in an IM client.

---

