---
title: "Beginner who's just killed their vaio touchpad"
date: 2008-05-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by susanw on 2008-05-13
Hello,

Just installed linux for the first time and it was all going very well - faster computer, pretty cube, instant connection to wireless etc. 

Unfortunately I've just managed to kill the touchpad... I was trying to get bbc iplayer to work (which incidently it almost does now) so I can't figure out how this affected the mouse. The keyboard also stopped working for a bit but seems to work now. I've tried reconfiguring the xorg (sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg) but that seemed to have no effect even after turning off and on again. So I went back to the copy I made (or well I think I made - I'm still incredibly unsure I've what I'm doing) before reconfigure.

The touchpad, on my computer: sony vaio VGN-FS315E was working very well - vertical and horizontal scroll, left and right taps. But now it's completely unresponsive: any ideas would be very welcome but please explain in simple language what you mean or how to find extra information if I need to give it before someone could possibly help me.



The extra thing is bbc iplayer which now works fully sometimes! works with no sound sometimes! and completely slays firefox at others... Any ideas on this would be great..

Thank you for reading,

---

### Post by mgranet on 2008-05-13
Can you post the contents of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by susanw on 2008-05-13
Of course. Perhaps you could tell me how to find that though... sorry, I know how to find terminal but after that what to write is still pretty limited..

cheers

---

### Post by mgranet on 2008-05-13
You can do it one of two ways:

From the terminal:

GNOME(Ubuntu) ```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

KDE(Kubuntu) ```
nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

From the GUI:

Open your file manager, go to the root directory, then to the etc directory, then X11, then double click on the xorg.conf file, copy paste the contents here.

---

### Post by tamoneya on 2008-05-13
hit alt-F2 and type ```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```Copy and paste it into here.  Also I think it would be helpful if you went into terminal (applications -> accessories -> terminal) and typed ```
lspci
```Copy and paste that here as well.

---

### Post by susanw on 2008-05-13
Wait minute, is this what you asked for?


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
	Option		"SHMConfig"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by susanw on 2008-05-13
Right so that last thing was the xorg.conf, so what's this that so you get when you type lspci? A list of pci drivers or something like that??



00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/PM/GMS/910GML Express Processor to DRAM Controller (rev 04)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 04)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 04)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) High Definition Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #3 (rev 03)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #4 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev d3)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801FBM (ICH6M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 03)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) IDE Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
06:03.0 CardBus bridge: Texas Instruments PCI7420 CardBus Controller
06:03.2 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Texas Instruments PCI7x20 1394a-2000 OHCI Two-Port PHY/Link-Layer Controller
06:03.3 Mass storage controller: Texas Instruments PCI7420/7620 Combo CardBus, 1394a-2000 OHCI and SD/MS-Pro Controller
06:04.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR5212/AR5213 Multiprotocol MAC/baseband processor (rev 01)
06:08.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82562ET/EZ/GT/GZ - PRO/100 VE (LOM) Ethernet Controller Mobile (rev 03)

---

### Post by susanw on 2008-05-14
My touchpad occasionally works! But only for a few seconds.. This seems to be when I've just unplugged the USB mouse I'm using as a substitute or when xserver is just started. I'm mystified!

Does anyone know if an xorg.conf file is saved when you first install linux? I've listed all the xorg.conf files and all the ones I can find are all after the problem started and reverting back to any of them doesn't solve it.

I'm contemplating reinstalling linux but am hoping there is some better, quicker solution?

Thank you

---

