---
title: "13.04 upgrade give me two UbuntuOne icons in top panel"
date: 2013-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kend650 on 2013-05-11
After upgrading to 13.04 yesterday, I now have 2 ubuntuOne icons in the top panel.  Although the upgrade went smoothly, even my nvidia drivers worked correctly, I have tried via dconf-editor to remove one of the UbuntuOne icons, but can't seem to find the place where it is at.  The gsettings does not contain a UbuntuOne clause.

Does anyone have an idea where the switches for the UbuntuOne icon are stored?

Thanks,
kend650

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-05-11
Can you just right-click on one of them and then click "remove from panel"?

---

### Post by kend650 on 2013-05-12
> **squakie said:**
> Can you just right-click on one of them and then click "remove from panel"?

Tried that, but all right click gives is:


open UbuntuOne folder

launch website

Sync'ing (grayed out)

Files up to date (grayed out)

Free space 

Open Control Panel (no help/prefs here)

Recently published files (grayed out)

Disconnect

---

### Post by P-I H on 2013-05-12
Perhaps this will help
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/287404/why-did-i-get-two-ubuntu-one-cloud-icons-in-the-tray-after-the-13-04-upgrade](http://askubuntu.com/questions/287404/why-did-i-get-two-ubuntu-one-cloud-icons-in-the-tray-after-the-13-04-upgrade)

---

### Post by kend650 on 2013-05-12
Well, according to [http://askubuntu.com/questions/287404/why-did-i-get-two-ubuntu-one-cloud-icons-in-the-tray-after-the-13-04-upgrade](http://askubuntu.com/questions/287404/why-did-i-get-two-ubuntu-one-cloud-icons-in-the-tray-after-the-13-04-upgrade), there are supposed to be two Ubuntu One icons in the top panel.  One for Ubuntu Music and one for folder syncinging.  This is NOT an elegant design, and someone in the Ubuntu hierarchy need to take a look at this...

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-05-12
I am only seeing one indicator with a clean installation. Notify osd displays a message when sync is in process, but  there is no second icon.

---

