---
title: "9.10 release problems"
date: 2010-03-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by 0026 on 2010-03-24
Recently i tried to instal Kubuntu 9.10, as instantly as i would get into the OS it would freeze. I could move the cursor, but couldnt click on anything.

So i installed regular Ubuntu 8.10 and it worked fine. Today i updated it to 9.04, which worked fine, but as soon as i updated it to 9.10, it started freezing again, with same issues.

Anyone knows whats the problem? Or how to de-grade 9.10 back to 9.04 in command line (as terminal-based boot-up works fine)?

---

### Post by phidia on 2010-03-24
I think you should check your log files-since you seem not to have use of your gui desktop you can find the logfiles in /var/log. While in CGI (commandline) you could also type > dmesg and see if anything shows up in that output.

Going back(un-upgrading)-while possible in debian-is not usually the recommended method. Maybe provide your hardware specs because someone else may have seen and have a fix for what you are describing.

---

### Post by 0026 on 2010-03-24
> dmesg

after i typed this, looks like i got full list of my laptop's internal devices and its drivers loading status.

about configuration:
Asus A3500L
512mb RAM
1.5GHz Intel CPU (dunno which one, i think its Celeron)
HDD 80Gb
And i really dunno about GPU. I think it's NVidia's.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2010-03-24
Well I really don't care for KDE 4.x, and Karmic is my least favorite distro. Maybe stick with Jaunty until Lucid (10.04) comes out? It looks real promising.

---

### Post by 0026 on 2010-03-24
> **theozzlives said:**
> Maybe stick with Jaunty until Lucid (10.04) comes out? It looks real promising.

Any tutorials how to de-grade 9.10 to 9.04?
I'm losing my nerves here + i'm out of blank cd/dvds to burn 9.04 installation.

---

### Post by phidia on 2010-03-24
> **0026 said:**
> Any tutorials how to de-grade 9.10 to 9.04?
I'm losing my nerves here + i'm out of blank cd/dvds to burn 9.04 installation.

You can read through the blog [here]("http://superuser.com/questions/38717/ubuntu-apt-get-upgrade-undo-or-rollback") but it will be an experiment that probably will cause even more work than fixing the system you have or reinstalling the release that last worked for you.

---

### Post by 0026 on 2010-03-24
Thx very much ppl!

---

