---
title: "11.04 software update after install causes freezeup"
date: 2011-06-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Windwoodtrader on 2011-06-20
I have aproblem installing Natty onto a 250 Gig  box with Windows Vista resident. I did the install requesting as  installed updates on the fly. The initial install went OK and Gnome Unity started OK  with some minor housekeeping problems. The next day I got an update  screen showing around 140 patches. I did the upgrades, and rebooted. Got  to a UNITY screen with icons up the left side and nothing else except a  cursor with which I could not cause any action. Had to do a hard kill  and reboot- Same thing.
Decided to wipe the whole disk and do a clean install- No more Vista.  Everything OK until I followed direction and upgraded- Rebooted and  watched my frozen screen again. Once again it took a hard kill.

I re-installed and got up and running but **_[COLOR=Black]did not[/COLOR]_** do the "security Upgrade." So far everything is OK. I'm sure that the upgrade will put me down in flames.

Obviously there is a condition in the install package or the upgrade  package that causes mayhem but my little experience precludes my finding  it. I have no intention of upgrading unless I can eliminate the  problem.

I'm running on an HP Pavilion Slimware box with an AMD Athlon X2  processor (about 4 years old) and a single 500 Gig non-partitioned hard  drive.
 
Anyone got a thought?

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-06-20
I have Unity running with all current updates and have no problem. Can you start disk utilities and check your hd for errors.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-06-20
I have fully-updated Natty installed on several systems and like dFlyer have not seen your problem. There may be an incompatibility between one of the updates and some part of your hardware, but let's exclude one possibility first. Did you enable any repositories apart from the routine ones? Specifically, did you enable either of the backports or proposed repositories?

---

### Post by Windwoodtrader on 2011-06-20
[FONT=Comic Sans MS]I have run the disk utilities and all is copacetic.[/FONT] 

I didn't run any repositories nor did I do anything exotic (I think.)
The system runs fine until I run the sugested software upgrades, reboot and look at my Unity screen with no top too bar but with a side bar. Mouse moves cursor but does not engage- Keyboard ineffective. Hard kill required. 

To ad to my dilemma-
I have used Linux in the past but it's been a while. For some obviously simple reason I am unable to get a terminal!!!
I have gone to the "Main Menu", Hit "Applications. Accessories and Terminal and al I get is a litle box with things like browse Command, Type, Name in a "Launcher Properties" window. A small icon in the upper left corner looks promising but only produces a laundry list of unfamiliar terms.
Obviously this old newbie needs some help!

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-06-20
> **Windwoodtrader said:**
> [FONT=Comic Sans MS]copacetic.[/FONT] 

I had to look that up! :)

So long as the keyboard hasn't seized up on you (which it sounds as thought it might have done), you can get the terminal in Unity with ctrl-alt-T. If you do run the updates again and get a broken Unity again, try to open a terminal with that keyboard shortcut, and:

```
unity --reset
```If that doesn't help, and you can't log out in the normal way, Alt-SysReq-k kills the xserver and takes you to the login screen. On some keyboards/systems you need the AltGr key on the right of the spacebar instead of Alt. From the log in screen you can get into the classic gnome desktop by entering your account name first and then selecting "classic" from the popup at the bottom of the screen after which you enter your password.

The icon at top left, the home button, should reveal the dash. There are a couple of links in my sig which might help to get you familiar with the Unity desktop.

---

### Post by Windwoodtrader on 2011-06-21
Hi Coffeecat-
I got into the pieces you suggested in your sig.

Did not see the icon with a dash in the  'Home' link 

 I found that hitting 'TAB' twice will invoke the terminal, though so now I can at least see a terminal screen.
 I'm now attempting to look up commands to further explore the situation. I'm right now looking for a command that will list my hardware content.

I suppose there is a command to list what is installed as well- Haven't found that though. Is it possible that an update will cause kernel panic? Does that happen?

Help on that subject would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Windwoodtrader on 2011-06-21
> **dFlyer said:**
> I have Unity running with all current updates and have no problem. Can you start disk utilities and check your hd for errors.
Hi, Gary-
I did do the disk utilities system check and there are no errors or anything amiss. Everything read OK.

---

### Post by Windwoodtrader on 2011-06-22
I'm now working on my 9th install over 4 days. My first two installs were beside Windows Vista. The box is an HP desktop with 250 GIG hard drive, an AMD 2 core 64 bit processor with 2 MEG (I think) and no video nor sound cards. The initial install went OK with everything except my wireless connection to a router didn't function but everything else seemed to work  fine. Since I had a network jack handy I just plugged it in and  everything was good. Sound, visual, keyboard, mouse and CD/DVD and internet working OK.

My trouble seemed to start when I installed the security upgrades and rebooted.  I got a Unity desktop with no toolbar on top. The mouse was active but mouse clicks and keystrokes were not effective. I found no way into the terminal either. None of the Unity sidebar icons seemed to be active. I did several hard kills and re-installs, first over the existing Natty then wiping the drive and doing several more total installs. At first I was unable to get to the terminal but was able to CTRL+ALT+2 and got in. That was the only thing that worked.

The installs I did included the upgrades on the fly. After the fifth install I figured something was bad there and after that I did installs without upgrading on the fly. I poked around in the console and Grepped accessories for a few hours finding upgrades using <UUPGRADE> that required its own install and reboot, some of the patches included display stuff so I thought I had a chance- Sorry, man no luck for you. 

Then I read in the Totally Frustrated forum section about a user that went into the "Try Ubuntu" link instead of doing an immediate install, played around a bit to make sure everything worked and then went back and installed, installing the restricted drivers as well and got success. He made no mention of the Ha! Ha! so called "Security Upgrades" though.

That is what I'm trying now- After the install screen quit the screen has just Ubuntu on it with the slow blinking dots across the bottom. I haven't been instructed to reboot so I plan on waiting it out for a while before I do anything.  

I will update this when I see what happens. 

Meanwhile, does anyone feel that a version 10. install and then an upgrade to Natty is worthwhile? Or maybe a version 10 install and to heck with Natty?

:mad:

---

### Post by el_koraco on 2011-06-22
Personally, if I were you, i wouldn't have the stomach to bother with another install. Instead, I'd put either X/Kubuntu 11.04, or Ubuntu 10.10.

---

### Post by Windwoodtrader on 2011-06-22
> **el_koraco said:**
> Personally, if I were you, i wouldn't have the stomach to bother with another install. Instead, I'd put either X/Kubuntu 11.04, or Ubuntu 10.10.

Funny you say that-
I allowed the install to think for a while and then came back to it 2 hours later. I hit <ENTER> and got a message that my hardware couldn't handle UNITY, the desktop that I have been using for five days!

OK, I'll take the 'CLASSIC' version which installed without a hitch. 

What is weird is that I've used the same CD to do the install. I guess that I just had to wait a while (2 hours) before the install realized that the UNITY wouldn't be a go.

Somewhere on the morass the UNITY requirements were being frustrated and the system just hung.

Thanks for your input, all

John

---

