---
title: ".mozilla folder is empty, firefox problem"
date: 2008-11-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by diskotek on 2008-11-26
i have firefox problem also. i upgrade to ubuntu 8.10, sort of fresh installation. i copied my old ".mozilla" folder to home folder, than i couldn't launch firefox... after that i deleted .mozilla but i couldn't create one after re-installation of firefox.

i tried many times re-install firefox-3.0 (+branding), ubufox etc.. but doesn't worked again. my ".mozilla" folder is still empty now.

any idea?

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2008-11-26
Who owns your ~/.mozilla folder?

From how you've explained it, this sounds like an ownership problem - where **you** aren't the owner and don't have write permissions.

Open a terminal, and copy/paste this into it.
```
ls -ld ~/.mozilla
```
And post the output of it.

Regards
Iain

---

### Post by diskotek on 2008-11-26
first of all thank you for the very quick response. 


> diskotek@diskotek:~$ ls -ld ~/.mozilla
drwx------ 2 diskotek diskotek 4096 2008-11-25 22:52 /home/diskotek/.mozilla
diskotek@diskotek:~$ 

---

### Post by diskotek on 2008-11-27
bump

---

### Post by Xiong Chiamiov on 2008-11-27
The permissions match mine, and it's owned by you, so that looks ok.

What error are you getting when you attempt to launch firefox?  What about when you launch it from a terminal?  Have you tried doing a purge and reinstall?
```

sudo aptitude purge firefox && sudo aptitude install firefox

```

---

### Post by flanagan on 2008-11-27
Try the following links over at mozillazine:

[http://kb.mozillazine.org/Transferring_data_to_a_new_profile](http://kb.mozillazine.org/Transferring_data_to_a_new_profile)
[http://kb.mozillazine.org/Profile_Manager#Accessing_the_Profile_Manager](http://kb.mozillazine.org/Profile_Manager#Accessing_the_Profile_Manager)

It sounds as if Firefox might be looking for your profile along some other path. Running the profile manager might tell you something.

---

### Post by heimo on 2008-11-27
Good advice above. You can always also try to run firefox in safe mode. Open a terminal window - OR hit alt+F2 to run a command - and type "firefox -safe-mode" (without quotes).

About safe-mode:
[http://kb.mozillazine.org/Safe_mode](http://kb.mozillazine.org/Safe_mode)

---

### Post by diskotek on 2008-11-27
thank you for the replies...

i tried to purge and re-install via terminal, but it still not working. and my ".mozilla" folder is still empty. i think i made a mistake while i was copying old profile, bul i don't have it anymore (cut-copy :( )

when i type terminal "firefox" or "firefox -safe-mode" nothing happens, nothing returns. strange...

i'll try to remove completely (purge does it really) and download firefox as .deb file and install. because when i purge & install it doesn't download anything.

---

