---
title: "9.10 (grub 2?) - installed Windows after Linux, need MBR updated"
date: 2010-01-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-01-11
I know the caveats about installing Windows first, then Ubuntu, but due to hardware limitations I needed to install Windows on my already existing 9.10 installation.

I know there are procedures listed for updating grub, but what I don't know is if those procedures have changed now that grub 2 is in use.  If so, can anyone point me to some sort of tutorial for doing so with grub 2?

Thanks in advance!

Dave :)

---

### Post by b0b138 on 2010-01-11
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2)

About 3/4 of the way down, Recover Grub 2 via LiveCD

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-01-11
Thank you!!

Dave :)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-01-11
Okay, that got me back to booting Linux.  Now, how do I add Windows on dev/sda2 to grub 2?  Where do I change things to (1) actually show the grub menu (never shows now, just boots immediately) and (2) change the default time-out on the grub menu?

This stuff with grub 2 has me all confused compared to just using the old grub.

Thanks again!

Dave :)

---

### Post by ImperialXT on 2010-01-11
update-grub should do it

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-01-11
Ran that initially as part of the instructions that got me back to booting just Linux.  I booted from my hard drive, then ran update-grub again as per your suggestion and also ran gurb-install /dev/sda again, and now everything works as it should.

Thanks!

Dave :)

---

### Post by JC Cheloven on 2010-01-11
> **ImperialXT said:**
> update-grub should do it
I'm affraid it will not work. That command exists in grub2 but it does a different thing. The right command is now ```
sudo update-grub2
```
Note: I was angry also with grub2 at the beginning, but now I start to appreciate it.

---

