---
title: "10.04. I have no idea how to move into another directory or drive in terminal"
date: 2011-05-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by shin333 on 2011-05-21
So I'm still new to Ubuntu and I'm trying to get gfxboot to work on my computer so that my bootup screen looks more awesome. 

I'm following this site to get instructions on how to get gfxboot on my Ubuntu. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=208855](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=208855)

The second step asks me to use sudo dpkg -i grub-gfxboot_0.97-5_i386.deb 

It gives me: 
dpkg: error processing grub-gfxboot_0.97-5_i386.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
Errors were encountered while processing:
 grub-gfxboot_0.97-5_i386.deb

To note, I have all my downloaded files going to a shared drive on a seperate drive. I've already downloaded the gfx file but I have no idea how to move into the shared drive while in the terminal so that i can unpack the gfxboot file. Help?

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-05-21
Go to places and open your shared drive.
Go one place up and you will be in your /media folder - from there, you can find out the mount point of your drive, lets say it is Shared_Drive.
Open a terminal and give
```
cd /media/Shared_Drive
```
and you're in.

A useful book about the linux command line is [this]("http://sourceforge.net/projects/linuxcommand/files/TLCL/09.12/TLCL-09.12.pdf/download").

---

### Post by Lateralis on 2011-05-21
If you want to change to a specific directory, you can pass that as an argument to the cd 

```

cd /path/to/new/directory

```

Alternatively, you can navigate to the directory with the .deb file using Nautilus and double click on the .deb file.  That will open, I think these days the software centre, to install the program.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-21
Is that version of Grub compatible with Lucid?

---

### Post by Naggobot on 2011-05-21
I have never been fluent enough to jump directly to a directory. That is why I tend to use

```
cd ..

```to move up and

```
cd <subdirectory>
```to move down. 

There probably is a way to jump directly to file system toplevel but I have not bothered to find it out. Sorry I have been a lax here.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-05-21
A good tip for long directory names: hit TAB to autocomplete, or double tap TAB to get a list of the directories at that level.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-05-21
Specific tip: Instead of run that 'sudo dpkg -i' command, you can just double-click on the package and it will install.

General tip: Instead of manually typing in a filename into a command and worrying about whether your terminal is in the correct directory, you can just drag the file into the terminal and its full path will be pasted in there.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-05-21
> **shin333 said:**
> So I'm still new to Ubuntu and I'm trying to get gfxboot to work on my computer so that my bootup screen looks more awesome. 


If you're using grub2, it already has graphical boot capability. See [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Splash%20Images%20and%20Theming](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Splash%20Images%20and%20Theming)
Those instructions you linked to are five years old and don't apply to grub2.

---

### Post by shin333 on 2011-05-21
Since I'm dual booting, (I installed Vista first before Ubuntu) I think I get Vista's default boot loading screen instead of Grub2. Is there anyway to get Grub2 to handle my booting instead?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-05-21
If you installed Ubuntu 11.04, you should be using grub2 already. I'm reasonably sure Microsoft wouldn't create a boot loader that can boot Linux. 

See the first post in this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1291280](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1291280)
If you could run the bootinfo script and post RESULTS.TXT here it would show exactly what bootloader you use.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-05-22
> **shin333 said:**
> Since I'm dual booting, (I installed Vista first before Ubuntu) I think I get Vista's default boot loading screen instead of Grub2. Is there anyway to get Grub2 to handle my booting instead?

Did you install using Wubi, or did you install to an actual partition on the disk?

---

