---
title: "... my java isnt working"
date: 2012-03-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by floating rock on 2012-03-26
... yeah' i am running on ubuntu 11.10 and installed java by openjdk-7-jre and icedtea6-plugin, but my games that run in java still wont work... what do?

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-03-26
Hi, welcome to the forums!

We'll need a little more info. What kind of error messages are you getting when you try to run java based programs? So far from what I've seen, openjdk-7 is a little buggy- can you run your programs with openjdk-6?

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2012-03-26
you could also try with a bit older version of Sun java

---

### Post by floating rock on 2012-03-26
im not really getting an error message, it usually just says that i dont have any plugins available to run the game... and i also have tried openjdk-6 but it doesnt work either... and also is there any other information i can supply that may help?

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-03-26
So you're talking about browser-based games? If so are you sure you've [enabled the plugin]("http://www.google.com/#hl=en&safe=strict&sclient=psy-ab&q=how+to+enable+java+plugin+in+firefox&oq=how+to+enable+java+plugin+in+firefox&aq=f&aqi=g1g-q3&aql=&gs_l=hp.3..0j0i22l3.209l8503l0l8686l50l35l5l9l9l11l1285l13992l0j7j5j7j5j3j3j2l51l0.frgbld.&pbx=1&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.r_qf.,cf.osb&fp=1bb0cf959228ea42&biw=1152&bih=669&safe=strict")?

---

### Post by floating rock on 2012-03-26
umm yes... and they are enabled... still nothing works...

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-03-26
Have you tried playing them in other browsers? (I assume you're using Firefox)

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-03-26
OpenJDK 7 is not "a little buggy".  It is actually the reference implementation for Sun/Oracle Java 7, which I use on my Fedora machine.

The problem is that developers often do not recognize OpenJDK and when their applications look for Java (or the plugin) they do not find what they think they need to.  Thus, Java applications and applets do not work.

If you are having problems (particularly with websites), I am 90% confident that this is the simple case.

You can have multiple Java Runtime Environments on your machine (Java 7, OpenJDK 7, Java 6, OpenJDK 6).  You can choose between them by simply changing your alternatives.

The plugins are a little more problematic, and it is best to have only one or the other installed at a time.

I suggest installing Sun Java 6 Update 31 and the Java Plugin (see mastablasta's post) to see if that corrects your problem.

[http://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/java](http://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/java)

Note that the maintainer mentions duinsoft as an alternative to the manual installation method.

---

### Post by floating rock on 2012-03-26
yes i have tried it in other browsers, and i normally use chromium, and also i keep getting the same error message "update-alternatives: error: alternative link is not absolute as it should be: usr/bin/java" when ever i try to do step 9 in the link...

---

### Post by grizzler on 2012-03-26
Step 9 works like a charm here.

Are you sure you entered that command correctly? The error mentions something about the link not being absolute (i.e. it should be /usr/bin/java and not usr/bin/java).

---

### Post by floating rock on 2012-03-26
... **** that was a fail on my part...

---

### Post by floating rock on 2012-03-26
... by the way do you have to do anything different for the plugins if you want it to also work for chromium?

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2012-03-26
> **floating rock said:**
> ... by the way do you have to do anything different for the plugins if you want it to also work for chromium?

i dont understand your problem iced tea plugin 6 of open java can run runescape

check your plugins
type ```
about:plugins

```
in browser url to see if you have the proper plugin

if the open source plugins does not work then
install the sun now called oracle java plugins

before you download check if your system 32 bit or 64 bit
to check 
type
```
uname -a
```
if you see a i386 or i686 or iX86 watever then it is 32 bit 
if you see x64_86 then it is a 64 bit system
if it is 64bit then download the 64bit plugin.
if your system 32 bit then download 32 bit plugin

[http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-how-to-find-if-processor-is-64-bit-or-not/](http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-how-to-find-if-processor-is-64-bit-or-not/)

---

### Post by floating rock on 2012-03-26
k thanks everyone its working now

---

