---
title: "8.04 Vs 10.04"
date: 2010-10-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by freeediver on 2010-10-10
I've been running 8.04 without issues on my laptop
( Toshiba a 105-s2031 )
I'm wondering if there is any real benefit for updating
to the current version 10.04 or should I just stay with
what is working?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-10
The best test is running the 10.04 live CD and see for yourself. 

Since Toshibas sometimes are hard to get to run Ubuntu, I would most likely let it carry on as is.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-10-10
10.04 has a lot of polish, much newer software, more hardware drivers and a faster boot; plus look at the 10.04 release notes for more new features. Give 10.04 a try, it's excellent. Besides which, Ubuntu Desktop 8.04 only has another six months of support.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2010-10-10
10.04 is an improved version of the OS. To get security updates you will have to switch.

However test it first with LiveCD. If everything works there is no reason not to upgrade.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-10-10
> **mastablasta said:**
> 10.04 is an improved version of the OS. To get security updates you will have to switch.

However test it first with LiveCD. If everything works there is no reason not to upgrade.

The desktop version of 8.04 is still supported for almost a year. If it works, don't mess with it tbh.

If you want to see if Lucid works on it, then boot a livecd and test it out.

---

### Post by bprins on 2010-10-10
Or throw virtual box on your system, and install lucid and maverick. I'm always too curious to "new" stuff, so I'm running maverick since alpha3. 

Maverick has a real push on diver support (especially on sound (alsa, pulse). 

The change from karmic to lucid is more the visualisation stuff and some better driver support, but if you don't have problems in hardy, then I agree with previous poster: why bother :).

---

### Post by darkstaar on 2010-10-10
> **CharlesA said:**
> The desktop version of 8.04 is still supported for almost a year.

Perhaps it is where you live, but it'll only be supported for about six months in my timezone [grin].

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-10-10
> **darkstaar said:**
> Perhaps it is where you live, but it'll only be supported for about six months in my timezone [grin].

Oh, no, you are right. I was thinking it was a year after 10.04 was released. So 6 months to go.

In any case there'll be another version released by then.

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2010-10-10
> **bprins said:**
> Or throw virtual box on your system, and install lucid and maverick. I'm always too curious to "new" stuff, so I'm running maverick since alpha3. 

Maverick has a real push on diver support (especially on sound (alsa, pulse). 

problem is that the system would run on a fake machine with fake devices. Virtualbox in no way indicates how the system would perform when running on an actual hardware so you don't test the compatibility at all. For the test of look&feel alone i agree, VM is very convenient.

---

### Post by bart1452 on 2011-02-13
It depends on how fast your machine is. I have a venerable Compaq Presario 700Z from 2002 with a 1.2 GHz Athlon, and Hardy 8.04 ran very fast and smooth on it. I upgraded to 10.04 and started having problems. The videos became very clunky, looking more like a series of still shots. Bootup us is slower and generally everything else is slower.

The bottom line is that 10.04 is a bigger, heavier system and needs more processor power and speed to run well. I only wish I had known that before upgrading. If you are happy with 8.04, proceed to upgrade with caution. Also, be sure to check the software sources under System Administratin and make sure to open up the non-free software sources for updates if you upgrade. 10.04 uses more repositories than 8.04. Not doing that means not all the drivers and utilities will load and things like videos won't play.

---

### Post by salemboot on 2011-03-12
10.04: Linux kernel 2.6.32  
08.04: Linux kernel 2.6.24

10.04: X.Org 1.6
08.04: X.Org 1.4

These are the primary factors you should consider.

**Explanation:**
Kernel compile options are a big factor!

The .24 (2.6.24) kernel didn't have drastic changes to it's scheduler.   .25's kernel did.  

**Note: **The .22 kernel introduced the Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS).  Upgrading from 6/7 to 8 you would have noticed a performance decrease on a Pentium III computer.  This is where the Big Oh scheduling algorithms google was known to have forward ported were sorely missed.  But alas you can't tell the geniuses with their quad-core processors anything they'll listen to.  Boot ubuntu 6 and 8 on the same machine and you'll enjoy the speed of 6 over 8.

The .32 kernel has various changes to schedulers and file-systems.  I'd recomend [http://www.phoronix.com/vr.php?view=15409]("http://www.phoronix.com/vr.php?view=15409")
They benchmarked five years of kernels.  Although, they benchmarked them on recent hardware. 
 

What's important to note is with each system change it's difficult to tell what is making a system sluggish.

X.Org is a big problem.  Intel massacred the Mesa/DRM/Xorg drivers for the Intel chipsets.  It took them three years to get it all sorted out.  Even now if you have a i8xx chipset you get the standard sub-standard vesa/vga driver.  

ATI dropped support for many of it's mobile chipsets and even it's famed Radeon 9800 card after the 9.2 driver.  Ubuntu 8.04 is basically where you are stuck.


**The Short Answer:**
I'd recomend everyone stay with 8.04:
1. You have a 2006-199x laptop 
2. You have a 2006-199x desktop
3. Ati chipsets: mobility 2xx/3xx, 9800,97xx,95xx, 1xxx,2xxx
4. Nvidia 62xx chipsets

Cononical needs to continue support of 8.04 beyond the cutoff date.


**Kernel Tweaks:**
You generally want the clock timers set to 1000.  Next you turn off high-memory if you have less than one Gigabyte of memory.  Voluntary Preemption is the next option to set. Finally, you choose your processor.  ie. Pentium3,4,whatever. 

You'll notice a difference!

---

### Post by thenickrulz on 2011-03-12
The current version is actually 10.10 sry i am being very picky:P

---

### Post by a2warik on 2011-03-12
I have still stuck to 8.04 although i tried 9.10 but since i didn't like the look and feel of it i reverted to 8.04[B]. 
  [/B]
> **salemboot said:**
> 
**The Short Answer:**
I'd recomend everyone stay with 8.04:

Cononical needs to continue support of 8.04 beyond the cutoff date.


Thanks for that:D

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-03-12
> **salemboot said:**
> 
**The Short Answer:**
I'd recomend everyone stay with 8.04:
1. You have a 2006-199x laptop 
2. You have a 2006-199x desktop
3. Ati chipsets: mobility 2xx/3xx, 9800,97xx,95xx, 1xxx,2xxx
4. Nvidia 62xx chipsets


but why?

Well soem of the opensoruce drivers are no good, but some work nicely.

i have 10.04 on  compaq 731EA also with 1,2Ghz Athlo and 256 MB ram. works quite nice. was thinking to go with XFCe but XFCE kept crashing so i just went with gnome. Ok the older system might be a bit faster take up less ram but this way i can use newer and same programmes with same verison as on other computers.

---

### Post by waynefoutz on 2011-03-12
> Originally Posted by salemboot View Post
The Short Answer:
I'd recomend everyone stay with 8.04:
1. You have a 2006-199x laptop
2. You have a 2006-199x desktop
3. Ati chipsets: mobility 2xx/3xx, 9800,97xx,95xx, 1xxx,2xxx
4. Nvidia 62xx chipsets

I have a laptop with an ATI Mobility x1270. I was stuck at 8.04 for a while, but now the open source drivers have pretty much caught up. I'm running 10.04 with the xorg-edgers PPA added, everthing works perfectly.

---

### Post by salemboot on 2011-03-13
**Reason:**
I had various troubles with an NVidia 6200 pci.  They even blacklisted the card with respect to Compiz.

8.04 and 10.04 are night and day.  Xorg 1.4 is just easier on the older hardware from my tests.  

My other test system uses a Cyberblade Trident chipset.  No choice on that system except to run the latest version.  It has DirectX 9 support in Windows XP.   It has Software OpenGL in Linux.

Open sourced graphics drivers are sticky situations.  The majority of the games out in the repositories work great.  It's the Wine emulated ones that suffer.

**Old box new OS**
I have used LXDE on an ancient Dell Latitude CPi (p2 2xx) 128mb ram.   I had 9.10 loaded on it.   I really don't know what makes Gnome so slow old older systems.  WindowMaker will run circles around it.

---

