---
title: "10.04 Beta won't boot"
date: 2010-04-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by justinian387 on 2010-04-11
I've looked long and hard, all over the Internet, and I can't find any solutions, so I've decided to make a new thread.

Just some information before you read on: I'm triple booting Ubuntu Studio 10.04 beta, Ubuntu 10.04 Beta, and Windows 7. Running an AMD Turion with the Nvidea 9100 G and the 9300m GS graphics card-combination-SLI-thingy (I clearly don't understand that).

A couple days ago I saw there were some updates to Ubuntu 10.04 beta, so I installed them.

After installing them, the system told me I must restart my computer. So, as any casual updater would do, I did. But when I selected Ubuntu on the GRUB, all that came up as a black screen; and now it's black with red, blue, and green dots all over the top.

Windows 7 is running fine, but I am also having the same issue with Ubuntu Studio, but in Studio, the monitor backlight turns off unless I go root (I guess it's root).

I can't find any ways to access root or anything either in Ubuntu, but I can in Ubuntu Studio.

Does anyone have any suggestions at all?

---

### Post by conradin on 2010-04-11
Sounds like a video configuration issue to me. I have seen several xserver config updates in the last week, perhaps it was one of those.
I would make up a rescue cd and see if i could fix any broken packages, or try modifying xorg.conf. You might look at the xorg.conf of your ubunutu stdio and try to make a comparison between the functioning one and the non functional one. 

The reason i am guessing this is your note of the colours, and that your monitor seems to be functional.

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-04-11
When you try booting can you gain access to a TTY console or does it just lock up?

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2010-04-11
HI

Have you look or asked in the Lucid section?

Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion
[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=377](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=377)


Sharky

---

### Post by justinian387 on 2010-04-11
> **-humanaut- said:**
> When you try booting can you gain access to a TTY console or does it just lock up?
I can access a TTY in Studio.

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-04-11
Is studio failing graphically too? if not i'd boot into studio copy the X.org configuration boot a rescue C.D. and copy the X configuration over to Ubuntu

---

### Post by justinian387 on 2010-04-11
Yes, Studio is failing graphically as well.

Could I just use a live or rescue cd to transfer the file over?

---

### Post by dr_latino999 on 2010-04-12
> **justinian387 said:**
> Yes, Studio is failing graphically as well.

Could I just use a live or rescue cd to transfer the file over?

I'm having this same problem right now, my secondary PC I use in the office failed over the weekend and now only boots to a black screen with no disk or network activity. This is an old Dell Pentium 4 with Integrated Graphics that has run like a champ through 8.04 beta till now.

---

### Post by justinian387 on 2010-04-12
> **dr_latino999 said:**
> I'm having this same problem right now, my secondary PC I use in the office failed over the weekend and now only boots to a black screen with no disk or network activity. This is an old Dell Pentium 4 with Integrated Graphics that has run like a champ through 8.04 beta till now.
There seems to be quite a few people having the same issue as you and I, but they seem to be getting error codes and other messages; or nothing at all (meaning no GRUB or boot).

---

### Post by muteXe on 2010-04-12
You're having problems with software that's not been officially released yet?  Funny that...

---

### Post by corncob on 2010-04-12
Does this have anything to do with anything?
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1434998](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1434998)

---

### Post by dr_latino999 on 2010-04-12
I brought my system back up by booting from the Install CD, and then following this guide.

[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-fix-broken-ubuntu-feisty-fawn.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-fix-broken-ubuntu-feisty-fawn.html)

---

