---
title: "9.04 no sound on fresh install"
date: 2009-07-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by monkian on 2009-07-14
[FONT=Verdana]Hi, Ubuntu noob here.

I've just performed a fresh install of 9.04 on my laptop and can't get any sound. I've followed the basic instructions on [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting).

I asked a friend who uses Ubuntu to have a look and he uninstalled pulse audio but it hasn't helped. I don't want to go too far in case I break anything as I don't know what I'm doing.

aplay -l gives me
```
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: SB [HDA ATI SB], device 0: ALC883 Analog [ALC883 Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: SB [HDA ATI SB], device 1: ALC883 Digital [ALC883 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: SB [HDA ATI SB], device 6: Si3054 Modem [Si3054 Modem]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
```lspci -v gives me (among a lot of other things)
```
00:14.2 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB4x0 High Definition Audio Controller (rev 01)
    Subsystem: Uniwill Computer Corp Device 2b15
    Flags: bus master, slow devsel, latency 64, IRQ 16
    Memory at c0400000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: <access denied>
    Kernel driver in use: HDA Intel
    Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel
```I think this is the ALSA info for it
[http://www.alsa-project.org/main/index.php/Matrix:Module-atiixp](http://www.alsa-project.org/main/index.php/Matrix:Module-atiixp)

Looking up the ALC883 gives me a list of modules but not sure which to pick. I'm trying to match it to my hardware - a headphone jack, line in and a built-in mic. Does this mean 3stack?

I've tried adding a few of the likely options to [/FONT][FONT=Verdana]/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf [/FONT][FONT=Verdana]but nothing's changed after restarting ALSA and rebooting.

I have of course checked the volume levels. I wish it were that simple!

Can anyone help me please?
[/FONT]

---

### Post by monkian on 2009-07-14
Update: I can get sound through external speakers, just not the laptop's built-in ones. A step in the right direction hopefully.

---

### Post by shanix on 2009-07-14
Where did you check the volume level?
Was it in gnome or the alsamixer -a ??
Also, you can also try to change the preference> Sound and change everything to Alsa and test it again.

---

### Post by monkian on 2009-07-14
I've checked in gnome and alsamixer but wasn't using -a. It doesn't seem to like it and it isn't in the man.

Sound is working fine through the external speakers but not the internal ones. There must be a switch somewhere to swap them over.

Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by johnstanley on 2009-07-14
I have the same problem of newly installing Ubuntu9.04 and not being able to hear any sound,nor can I find any indication in the Help section.
The volume is set for maximum but no sound comes out, not even playing a cd

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-07-14
go to the volume control, make sure that the front speakers option is on and not on mute, you can go to preferences from there and add it if it isn't there

---

### Post by johnstanley on 2009-07-14
Did as you suggested and inserted a cd but only sound was a jarring noise as though the player had a problem.
CD works fine with Windows ,also installed as second os

---

### Post by monkian on 2009-07-14
John, do you hear anything if you plug in headphones or external speakers like I do? I just can't get my laptop's speakers to work. It all works okay under Windows.

I'm sure I've read about this happening; I'll have a good search tomorrow. It might be a case of selecting the right sound card model.

---

### Post by johnstanley on 2009-07-14
I haven't tried external speakers supposing the laptop one works ok but clearly there is a problem. Will keep searching and get back if I find a solution.
Thanks anyway:p

---

### Post by vanadium101 on 2009-07-14
What model is you computer? If it's an hp dvXz like mine below then try some of the solutions [[COLOR="Red"]HERE[/COLOR]]("https://launchpad.net/~dv4z") in particular [[COLOR="Red"]try this one first[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7299632&postcount=60") as it's is the one that worked for me

---

### Post by ecmatter on 2009-07-14
* [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5080647](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5080647) 			*

---

### Post by monkian on 2009-07-15
My front speakers control is controlling the headphone level and the headphone control doesn't seem to do anything. It's all mixed up so I guess I need to find the right model. My laptop is branded Novatech, made by Uniwill and it's not in the list of models.

I'll try the model=3stack-6ch option later. Hopefully that'll give me the switch I'm after. Thanks for the link ecmatter.

---

### Post by Eupho on 2009-07-15
I am running 9.04 on a Compaq CQ40 laptop, almost perfectly. I had some sound problems ie, sound via headphone none via speaker. I found this fix on launchpad.

[ http://ubuntuforums.org/newreply.php?do=newreply&noquote=1&p=7614895]("http://ubuntuforums.org/newreply.php?do=newreply&noquote=1&p=7614895")

That got my sound going...................however. When I start Ubuntu and decide I wont to use headphones the sound still comes out of the speakers. Unless I start Ubuntu with the headphones pluged in. Then I need to re boot to get my sound back via speaker if I remove the headphones.

Any Ideas?

Hope the link helps

---

### Post by monkian on 2009-07-15
model=3stack-6ch
Gave me the headphone switch and some very quiet sound through the laptop speakers

model=6stack-dig
Is much better but some of the controls seem to be mixed up and some strange things happen. I can get decent stereo sound but if I turn up the front level, it goes mono and louder. But this front controls the headphone level.

Strange but I'm happy for now. Will fiddle a bit more but this is fine really. I just wanted the laptop speakers to work. Thanks for the help everyone.

---

### Post by johnstanley on 2009-07-15
laptop is a Gateway MX3042 model. Sound works with Windows XP but not with Ubuntu

---

### Post by CompizDoDo on 2009-07-15
> **LowSky said:**
> go to the volume control, make sure that the front speakers option is on and not on mute, you can go to preferences from there and add it if it isn't there
Thanks so much man even though this is really simple i missed it u rock!:guitar::lolflag:

---

