---
title: "Help needed with screen resolution"
date: 2008-05-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by blueskystarfish on 2008-05-31
OK.  I have finally accepted I need to seek help.  I have installed Ubunutu 8.04 on an old AMD machine I have, but cannot get anything other than 800x600 and 640x480.  I know I need to edit xorg.conf file, but am not having any luck getting further.  

I am using this command in Terminal
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
to help me edit the file.


Here are the contents of the file as it stands now.

===================================================

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

=================================================================

The machine has a 
AMD Athlon(tm) XP 2400+ CPU
and what seems to be a 
VIA Technolgies, Inc VT8378 [S3 unichrome] Integrated Video chip.

Any help to get me further would be hugely appreciated :) ...........

---

### Post by oedha on 2008-05-31
what if you try to download the VIA driver at :==> 
[http://linux.via.com.tw/support/downloadFiles.action](http://linux.via.com.tw/support/downloadFiles.action)

---

### Post by blueskystarfish on 2008-05-31
Yes, I've tried that but there is no mention of my chipset anywhere, and I am not knowledgeable enough to know what would substitute for it. If it is an old machine, I am thinking I might have to manually edit the xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by blueskystarfish on 2008-05-31
After a bit more digging, the board seems to have a KM400 chipset, but I am still no nearer to getting specific drivers for it.  Any ideas?

---

