---
title: "8.10 java &amp; flash 64bit"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mormor on 2008-10-30
Hello. 8.10 installed, flawlessly.

But... Java and flash.

I do not know how to make it work, care to help?

Aplets are not working, like internet bank, neither is youtube.

---

### Post by niyonk on 2008-10-30
Instructions for [flash]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/flash") or [this]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/Flash") 
Instructions for [java]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JavaInstallation") 

Do you have 32 or 64-bit?
Cheers!

---

### Post by Paqman on 2008-10-30
Just install the package ubuntu-restricted-extras. It'll set up both Flash and Java on either 32-bit or 64-bit.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-10-30
> **paqman said:**
> just install the package ubuntu-restricted-extras. It'll set up both flash and java on either 32-bit or 64-bit.

+1

---

### Post by mormor on 2008-10-30
I have 64-bit architecture.

After I did the ubuntu extras things started looking better.
Java-site says my java is working. (1.6.0 update.)
Flash started working

But still Java Aplets, like online banks, will not load. This might be a problem, if I were to recieve a bill... ;)

Any thoughts on that?

---

### Post by cl333r on 2008-10-30
AFAIK for x64 there's only the Java openjdk/icetea plugin.
The official Java (sun-java6-jre) does not ship a plugin for x64 yet, Sun says it will ship with update 11 or 12, the current update in Intrepid is 10.

---

### Post by jamesstansell on 2008-11-02
> **cl333r said:**
> AFAIK for x64 there's only the Java openjdk/icetea plugin.
The official Java (sun-java6-jre) does not ship a plugin for x64 yet, Sun says it will ship with update 11 or 12, the current update in Intrepid is 10.

There are 3 64-bit java plugins, I think are all related.  This one includes the liveconnect functions, needed for java <--> javascript action

 * icedtea6-plugin

The other 2 may be of interest to a few people:

 * icedtea-gcjwebplugin (in 8.10 Intrepid this only a transitional package for the above plugin)
 * gcjwebplugin (can use cacao or jamvm for the JRE)

As for the sun 64-bit java plugin, the last I heard was after update 11, so it could be even beyond update 12 before we see it.

---

### Post by newbiebme on 2008-11-04
I have kind of the same problem. The flash was working fine until I did some updates. I'm not sure how to check which version of Ubuntu I have. I already have the Ubuntu-restricted-extras package. When I go to a page, nothing happens to a flash window---but when I click on it then it loads. I also have 64bit.   Can anyone help?

---

### Post by poldie on 2008-11-04
> **newbiebme said:**
> I have kind of the same problem. The flash was working fine until I did some updates. I'm not sure how to check which version of Ubuntu I have. I already have the Ubuntu-restricted-extras package. When I go to a page, nothing happens to a flash window---but when I click on it then it loads. I also have 64bit.   Can anyone help?

I'm going to follow this thread as I'm keen to get 8.10 64bit to support java in the browser, but I followed many pages of tutorials and advice and had only minimal success.  No matter what I tried I ended up with ff quitting as soon as it encountered certain pages, or the applets wouldn't function properly. I understand that Sun is working on the problem too, so perhaps one day there'll be `official` support, although Sun seems to have one of those search engines which doesn't really help you locate anything easily.

---

### Post by gaffurabi on 2008-11-25
> **niyonk said:**
> Instructions for [flash]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/flash") or [this]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/Flash") 
Instructions for [java]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JavaInstallation") 

Do you have 32 or 64-bit?
Cheers!

is there an idiot-proof way? i mean step-by-step commands (for x64)? (declaring myself a linux n00b)

---

### Post by Paqman on 2008-11-25
> **gaffurabi said:**
> is there an idiot-proof way? i mean step-by-step commands (for x64)? (declaring myself a linux n00b)

About as idiotproof and one-step as it gets:

[Click here](apt:ubuntu-restricted-extras)

This will install ubuntu-restricted-extras including Flash and Java. You'll need to agree to the Java license to install it.

---

### Post by madsc89 on 2008-11-25
The problem with internet bank, at least with the Norwegian Bankenes betalingssentral (BBS) is solved by uninstalling Icedtea Java Plugin. Search for it in Add/Remove Applications.

I had the same problem earlier, even support with the service had no clue. Found the answer on a small forum...

---

### Post by madsc89 on 2008-11-25
> **newbiebme said:**
> I have kind of the same problem. The flash was working fine until I did some updates. I'm not sure how to check which version of Ubuntu I have. I already have the Ubuntu-restricted-extras package. When I go to a page, nothing happens to a flash window---but when I click on it then it loads. I also have 64bit.   Can anyone help?

It is suppsed to be like that.. Only opening flash windows when you click on them, saves a lot of download time. Besides, you won't be bothered with adds all the time.
I think I might have seen an option to automatically load flash somewhere in FF, though.

---

### Post by newbiebme on 2008-11-29
oh...thanks (but for some reason it was never like that before).

If I try to this site:[http://www.watch-movies.net/movies/role_models/](http://www.watch-movies.net/movies/role_models/) and click on a movie to watch-nothing happens-even if my pop up windows are not blocked. Is that a flash problem or a pop up problem...if not what kind of problem would that be?

---

