---
title: "how to get rid of safe mode?"
date: 2008-11-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mahmater on 2008-11-29
hi, 
 because I failed to install ubuntu 8.10 on my intel 2845g because of incompatibility,I finally managed to install it using safe mode. now,the resolution is too large ...and everything looks big: the cursor,the panels .... my question is:

  how can I get rid of the safe mode and restore the normal look of ubuntu?

---

### Post by Paqman on 2008-11-29
You need to install the proper drivers for your graphics card. Have you checked System > Admin > Hardware Drivers?

---

### Post by mahmater on 2008-11-29
thanx friend. I checked hardware drivers but it's blank. nothing is given.I also checked the screen resolution and it's stucked at 640*480 with no options to choose from or change.

---

### Post by mahmater on 2008-11-29
well if someone may help,this is my xorg.config

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

