---
title: "Installing Driver for Pluscom Fax Modem"
date: 2010-02-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Chough39 on 2010-02-11
I need a dial-up data/fax modem and have obtained a Pluscom USB2.0 Fax Modem which works well under Windows. However I need to use it with Ubuntu, one needs first to download the required Linux driver. This I have done successfully and unpacked the deb package. However when I try to install it it is unsuccessful and the following message is received:
 

 

 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]gerald@gerald-laptop:~$ sudo dpkg -i dgcmodem_1.01_i386.deb [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2][sudo] password for gerald: [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2](Reading database ... 164262 files and directories currently installed.) [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]Preparing to replace dgcmodem 1.01 (using dgcmodem_1.01_i386.deb) ... [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]Unpacking replacement dgcmodem ... [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]Setting up dgcmodem (1.01) ... [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]Conexant DGC USB modem driver, version 1.01 [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]If you need assistance or more information, please go to: [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]	[http://www.linuxant.com/](http://www.linuxant.com/) [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]When reporting a problem for the first time, please send [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]us the file generated by "dgcconfig --dumpdiag". [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]No pre-built modules for: Ubuntu-9.10 linux-2.6.31-19-generic i686-SMP [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]Trying to automatically build the driver modules... [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2](this requires a C compiler and proper kernel sources to be installed) [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]Where is the linux source build directory that matches your running kernel? [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2][/lib/modules/2.6.31-19-generic/build] [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]WARNING: missing file dgcconfig --dumpdiag/include/linux/autoconf.h [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]The cause of this is usually a missing or unconfigured [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]kernel source tree (and sometimes an incorrect directory or symbolic link). [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]First, ensure that the proper kernel source and compiler packages [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]from your distribution vendor and/or the community are installed. [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]The Linux kernel can then be reconfigured by running "make menuconfig" [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]under the kernel source directory (usually /usr/src/linux). [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]Verify that the proper options for your system are selected. [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]Then compile and install your new kernel (for more information about [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]this procedure, see the README file under the kernel source directory), [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]reboot the system using the new kernel, and re-run "dgcconfig". [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 

 I am a newcomer to Ubuntu and would much appreciate some help please. I have not contacted Linuxant yet as I feel that the first problem is my lack of knowledge of Linux not the driver.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-02-11
It looks like you need to install build-essentials. Search for it in either the Software Center or Synaptic Package Manager.

---

### Post by Chough39 on 2010-02-12
> **cariboo907 said:**
> It looks like you need to install build-essentials. Search for it in either the Software Center or Synaptic Package Manager.
Thank you for your reply Cariboo907.
As I said, I have just come to Ubuntu and though what you say I am sure makes sense I need a further explanation please. I have tried to find something as you suggested concerning "build essentials" but with no success, what exactly are the files I need to find?

[FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]When trying to automatically build the driver modules [/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]where do I find a C compiler and the proper kernel sources to be installed, what exactly is the kernel source? I have just updated the previous kernel through update manager. 

[/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2]What is the linux source build directory that matches my running kernel? [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Courier 10 Pitch][SIZE=2][/SIZE][/FONT]

---

