---
title: "DansGuardian SQUID With Group FIltering Breaks Synaptic Package Manager"
date: 2012-12-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by SRear on 2012-12-01
[FONT=Calibri]Hi I am a newcomer to Ubuntu and, after successfully installing Ubuntu 12.10 thought I'd install a web filter to protect the kids while browsing online. I have followed [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DansGuardian](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DansGuardian) to install DansGaurdian and Squid I have also configured Group Filtering, (using OIDent), as per [http://contentfilter.futuragts.com/wiki/doku.php?id=group_configuration&DokuWiki=bc19f9a82ae58549a21b977d5b877871](http://contentfilter.futuragts.com/wiki/doku.php?id=group_configuration&DokuWiki=bc19f9a82ae58549a21b977d5b877871). As long as the browser has the proxy set correctly everything works as expected (after a days work!).[/FONT]
 
[FONT=Calibri]The problem is that synaptic cant update packages with this configuration, (even when I set its http and ftp proxy settings). I am presented with multiple "Failed to fetch… Connection failed…." error messages.[/FONT]
 
[FONT=Calibri]I suspect this might be an IPTables config problem but I am not familiar with configuring this and suspect it will take a great deal of time to become familiar with it! After much googling I have found that adding the following to my IPTables Config will allow Synaptic to work however this also allows unfiltered access when the browser proxy settings are removed;[/FONT]
 
[FONT=Calibri]-P INPUT DROP[/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]-A INPUT -i ! eth1 -j ACCEPT[/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]-A INPUT -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT[/FONT]
 
[FONT=Calibri]Has anybody out there configured Dansgaurdian, Squid & Group Filtering allowing Synaptic to function while also preventing filtering bypass? If so can they please point me in the right direction? I have included my IPTables config below. Thanks for your help in advance![/FONT]
 
[FONT=Calibri]# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Sat Nov 17 16:31:37 2012[/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]*nat[/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]:PREROUTING ACCEPT [1:229][/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]:INPUT ACCEPT [1:229][/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]:OUTPUT ACCEPT [6:376][/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [248:14896][/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]#-P INPUT DROP[/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]#-A INPUT -i ! eth1 -j ACCEPT[/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]#-A INPUT -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT[/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]-A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -m owner --uid-owner proxy -j ACCEPT[/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]-A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 3128 -m owner --uid-owner proxy -j ACCEPT[/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]-A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080[/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]-A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 3128 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080[/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]COMMIT[/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri]# Completed on Sat Nov 17 16:31:37 2012[/FONT]
 
[FONT=Calibri]Regards ,[/FONT]
 
[FONT=Calibri]Simon[/FONT]

---

### Post by Yoshir on 2013-01-01
have you tried adding
iptables -t nat -A OUTPUT -m owner --uid-owner root -j ACCEPT

---

### Post by SRear on 2013-01-02
Hi Yoshir - Thanks foy your reply,
 
I have tried adding the line -A OUTPUT -m owner --uid-owner root -j ACCEPT to my IPTables config file and rebooted. This does not solve the problem.
 
 
This issue is no big show stopper though the kids arn't that advanced that they are able to change the proxy (yet!) so I can live with the current configuration for now at least.
 
Regards,
 
Simon

---

