---
title: "11.10 upgrade and files"
date: 2011-10-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rawbertb on 2011-10-31
Really dumb question--do I have to save all my files to an external drive before I upgrade to 11.10 or just leave them where they are in 11.04?

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2011-10-31
Not a dumb question.  You don't have to make a back-up but if something goes wrong you may lose some or all of your data.  I always back up documents and pictures and anything else I really don't want to lose just in case.  Enjoy.

---

### Post by M!K3_$ on 2011-10-31
> **rex bouwense said:**
> not a dumb question.  You don't have to make a back-up but if something goes wrong you may lose some or all of your data.  I always back up documents and pictures and anything else i really don't want to lose just in case.  Enjoy.

+1

---

### Post by ixtok on 2011-10-31
Always back up. If you search this forum, you will find that a fresh install is often preferred over the upgrade which sometimes seems to create problems

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-10-31
Make sure they are backed up this time just before you upgrade, then when you do the upgrade, consider a clean installation with a separate /home partition.
[Separate home at install.]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installseparatehome") 
It makes life so much simpler when updates or re-installs are needed, and it is my opinion that clean installs are much better and less likely to fall down with problems than online upgrades, and especially so this time with the change from gnome/gtk2 to gnome/gtk3.

Mind you, wherever your personal files are kept, you should always have a  backup;  hard disks can and do fail, and always at just the wrong  moment!

---

