---
title: "Need help with a couple of problems."
date: 2008-12-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Gwendal on 2008-12-11
Hello!

Just recently I installed ubuntu 8.10 making the transition from windows to linux! The installation went as smooth as butter but I did encounter some problems when I started poking around and I hope I could get some help from the forum users here.

1) Wicd install- the installation instructions on their website tell me to add a repository using this code line: "deb [http://apt.wicd.net](http://apt.wicd.net) hardy extras" but when i reload the package manager i there is nothing called Wicd in the manager. I have also tried using deb [http://apt.wicd.net](http://apt.wicd.net) intrepid extras but that didn't make a difference either.

2) I looked into my ati catalyst program and it seems to be confusing my x600 256mb with an older x600 128mb could this account to poor graphical performance in games/ effects? I installed the ati/amd proprietary FGLRX graphics driver also.

These are the last 2 problems I have currently!

---

### Post by Scunnered on 2008-12-11
If you are having keyboard problems I would suggest that you check your setting. Looks possibly like you are using a US setting.

On the wireless problem it may be that dependant on what provider you are using that you can auto load.  I am on cable wireless and it is the password that I used when setting up the connection that I have to use if things fall apart.  I use a 12 digit item and not the encoded version generated by the system.

I hope these points might be of assistance in resolving matters.

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-12-11
To see your system components, write these code in a terminal
```
lspci
``````
lshw
```

As for your wireless, Ubuntu prompts for two things - one for the keyring password where your wireless passphrase is stored and one for the actual passphrase. You need to set this up only once. Next time when you reboot, Ubuntu should ask you for the 'keyring' password and connect to your wireless router automatically. If you find this annoying, [WICD]("http://wicd.sourceforge.net/features.php") is a good replacement for your wireless manager.

Not sure about your other issues.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-12-11
> **Gwendal said:**
> 1) Keyboard commands- when I use the shift key + 2 to get an at symbol it gives me this instead " , this goes for a couple of the other shift sensitive items as well such as the number key.
Keyboard layout may differ between gui and terminal. Where do you have the problem?

> **Gwendal said:**
> 2) Is there a way to see my systems components and should I go look for a video driver other than the one ubuntu installed for me when I first started ubuntu. (ati mobility x600)
What do you mean by system components? Do you mean the hardware you have?

> **Gwendal said:**
> 
4) I also figured out my wireless Internet card but every time I turn on my computer the wireless Internet asks me for my routers password (20digits long gets strenuous after awhile). Is there anyway for the wireless card to auto connect with my router without having to put in the 20 digit code all the time
You should be able to save the password. However I was never happy with the default network manager and I use now WICD instead. You can google for it (it's on sourceforge) and they provide an own repository for it.

---

### Post by Gwendal on 2008-12-11
Thank you for all the quick replies! So my wireless problems have been fixed with the adding of wicd. I found my hardware using the terminal commands (but it says my x600 has only 128mb of ram when it has 256mb). 
So really the only problems still left is the keyboard and a new one with my sound. So in a nut shell the keyboard only has 3 problems that exsist; 

1) the at symbol used in emails doesnt work i get this instead when i do shift + 2 = " and i use this symbol in my email client to send emails so right now that makes it pretty hard :P 

2) A new problem has risen with my sound. My sound was working perfectly but then after i installed gstreamer plugin for totem I get this error when I try to test my audio : audiotestsrc wave=sine freq=512 ! audioconvert ! audioresample ! gconfaudiosink: Could not open audio device for playback.

Thank you for all the help again! I very impressed with the ubuntu community :P

---

### Post by decoherence on 2008-12-11
regarding your keyboard issue, have you tried going to System -> Preferences -> Keyboard and making sure things are set appropriately? Especially under the Layouts tab.

---

### Post by Gwendal on 2008-12-11
thanks! I have all of the keyboard functions working now but a problem has risen when installing wicd. Their installation instructions on their website tell me to add a repository using this code line: "deb [http://apt.wicd.net](http://apt.wicd.net) hardy extras" but when i reload the package manager i there is nothing called Wicd in the manager. I have also tried using deb [http://apt.wicd.net](http://apt.wicd.net) intrepid extras but that didn't make a difference either.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-12-11
You can always disable the keyring manager, its annoying for normal users anyway...
I believe this is the method (Im on a windows PC at work)
go to /home folder hit CTRL+H, to see hidden folders find the .gnome2 folder, in should be a keyring folder, delete the data in te keyring folder and now the next time the propt for your assword and jeyring come up, only enter you password on the xcreen that says network wirelss password, and when the keyring comes up leave it blank and don't type anything.
It will now always autoload the wireless network without a prompt for a password

---

### Post by Gwendal on 2008-12-11
Thanks Lowsky but i would rather have wicd installed. I have updated the OP to display my current problems.

---

### Post by Gwendal on 2008-12-11
Still looking for some help with the last 2 problems.

---

### Post by juanoleso on 2008-12-11
for Wicd did you:
```

wget -q http://apt.wicd.net/wicd.gpg -O- | sudo apt-key add -

```
into a terminal?

if so, then make sure in synaptic
"http://apt.wicd.net hardy extras"
is checked under settings > repositories then Third-Party Software tab.  Reload your repos and then click origin and click under apt.wicd.net/extras.

---

### Post by Gwendal on 2008-12-11
thanks juan! wicd is installed now.

---

### Post by decoherence on 2008-12-15
i should really read threads to the end before i post! lol

---

