---
title: "12.04 evince breaks updates since upgrade"
date: 2012-05-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by revnoah on 2012-05-24
I'm unable to update my system due to evince being broken. I've tried all of the usual methods and they haven't worked. I'm running Ubuntu 12.04LTS on an Athlon 64-bit dual core.

```
apt-get update
apt-get upgrade
apt-get -f install
```

This is the error I get:

```
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 evince : Depends: evince-common (>= 3.4) but 3.2.1-0ubuntu2.2 is installed
```

When I attempt to install a newer version of evince from the website, I get this warning of impending doom:
[B]If you install evince, future updates will not include new items in The Ubuntu desktop system set. Are you sure you want to continue?
[/B]
This sounds like a terrible prospect to me, so I click Cancel. I have no idea what to do now though.

---

### Post by mapes12 on 2012-05-26
Have you considered a complete fresh install of 12.04? In my experience following the upgrade route breaks something at some point or another......and it looks as if you've reached it.

---

### Post by v0 HaVoK 0v on 2012-05-26
> **mapes12 said:**
> Have you considered a complete fresh install of 12.04? In my experience following the upgrade route breaks something at some point or another......and it looks as if you've reached it.

That's pretty fail, if updates can cause that many problems, after my last update I lost minimize affect, sidebar is very glitchy and window previews are horrible and overall performance is now horrible.

---

### Post by revnoah on 2012-05-26
> **mapes12 said:**
> Have you considered a complete fresh install of 12.04? In my experience following the upgrade route breaks something at some point or another......and it looks as if you've reached it.

I agree with "v0 HaVoK 0v", that's a huge fail if the only way to fix it is to either break automatic updates or completely reinstall. I use this computer for both web and Android development, and I don't have a free day to reinstall, reconfigure and restore everything. It seems like a pretty extreme solution for a broken library.

---

### Post by Bapun007 on 2012-05-26
You better do a fresh install , i also face problems when i tried to upgrade 10.04 to 12.04.

---

