---
title: "12.04 help!!"
date: 2012-06-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ataitt on 2012-06-13
Got a few issues with 12.04 and i'm brand new to ubuntu so go easy on me plz.

I have an ASUS U64E laptop with dualboot Windows 7 and Ubuntu 12.04

First thing I notice is when I close the laptop lid my laptop doesn't perform usual behavior like when i am booted into windows. lights keep flashing as if it is doing something i'm not sure what it's doing. I have went into system settings and set battery power to suspend when lid is closed i've checked everywhere and made sure everything is set to suspend assuming this is the correct settings. And maybe i'm just bugging out and the lights flashing don't mean anything. What concerns me is that I closed the laptop lid last night and woke up in the morning and the laptop was a little warm like it's been doing things, and THAT is unusual for my laptop which usually when booted in windows I could not use my laptop for days and when I open the lid it just resumes from where I left off and it's not hot or warm or anything. I'm now scared to leave laptop for long periods of time unattended. I need to know what are correct settings to be used to conserve energy and protect laptop while still using Ubuntu.

Another concern that i can't search effectively online is that I was trying to use Compiz fusion on 12.04 with no luck what so ever and no online help either so I'm assuming that it doesn't work yet? am I right or not? none of the functionality of fusion works and also 12.04 doesn't have unity3d support? am I right or wrong.

Again if any of my post seems wrongly worded or refers to the wrong things plz correct and forgive me like I said I'm completely new to Ubuntu.

---

### Post by HunterDX77M on 2012-06-13
Welcome to Ubuntu Forums. Is your computer able to suspend normally, without the lid closing? Can you click on the icon in the upper right corner and click "suspend" from that menu?

For future reference, please use a more descriptive title for your threads, otherwise no one will come to help. The title of your thread is much like going to the doctor and telling her "I feel bad" and not saying anything else. Peace and have a nice day.

---

