---
title: "[SOLVED] Strange unreadable font on my firefox"
date: 2008-12-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by phantomjoker on 2008-12-31
Hi there

I have recently just reinstalled 8.10, and after the install i noticed on some pages some of the font was not what looked like normal font - infact unreadable symbol like characters.

If i copy and paste the text into a google search bar, or any other text box, it instantly switches into understandable text, but the website is still unreadable, and its such a hassle copying and pasting hundreds of times..

has anyone experienced this? 

(by the way - im using firefox version 3)

cheers

here is a screenshot -

[IMG]http://i42.tinypic.com/289asee.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by nhasian on 2008-12-31
what do you have listed in firefox under View->Character Encoding?  The webpage loads fine for me and i have it set to Western (ISO-8859-1)

---

### Post by phantomjoker on 2008-12-31
Western (ISO-8859-1) is the one selected

what have you selected for your auto-detect? mine is off

---

### Post by phantomjoker on 2009-01-01
anyone else?

---

### Post by chrisod on 2009-01-01
The page loads fine for me. I'm also Western (ISO-8859-1) with auto detect turned off.

What happens if you change the encoding to Unicode?

---

### Post by Ben Page on 2009-01-01
Have you tried opening that page with other browsers like Opera? Are characters the same? It may be a plugin problem. Have you updated your FF?

edit: I have checked that web address both with firefox and opera and I have no problems viewing it. Im using 8.10 superUbuntu, super means some extra codecs and plugins and uptades, so it must be the updates or plugins. Also im using some czech and serbian language packages, maybe lng packages are to blame (?).
All my browser settings are default.

---

### Post by phantomjoker on 2009-01-01
ok, if i switch my encoding to 'central europian' it works... BUT then if i change page, the encoding switches back - how do i make the change perminant?

---

### Post by Copernicus1234 on 2009-01-01
> **phantomjoker said:**
> ok, if i switch my encoding to 'central europian' it works... BUT then if i change page, the encoding switches back - how do i make the change perminant?

Go to Edit -> Preferences -> Content, then under Fonts & Colors you click Advanced. At the bottom of the dialog box that pops up you have Character Encoding. Pick the one you want and click OK.

---

### Post by NightmareShadow on 2009-01-01
Have you tried using UTF-8 encoding?
UTF-8 should almost work on all website.

---

### Post by phantomjoker on 2009-01-02
yes, and it doesn't change it...

the only encoding that seems to work in Central Europian... and even set as default, it's not default!

---

### Post by unutbu on 2009-01-02
What happens when you point your firefox browser to about:config
(on the url line)?

Then type 'iso' in the Filter text field.

You should see something like this in the output:
```

intl.charset.default       user set       string     ISO-8859-1
```

Double-click on the line and try changing it to ISO-8859-2.

Even if this works (which it might not), it does not explain:
[list]
[*]Why you need to use ISO-8859-2 when ISO-8859-1 seems to work for the rest of us
[*]Why setting the default encoding through Edit>Preferences does not work.
[/list]
Nevertheless, perhaps it is worth a try.

---

### Post by phantomjoker on 2009-01-02
This is quite interesting! Look how many there are?!

And i _dont_ even have a **intl.charset.default**  

[IMG]http://i42.tinypic.com/a31su0.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by unutbu on 2009-01-02
phantomjoker, could it be that your .mozilla directory is inherited from some older version of firefox? If so, perhaps there is some incompatibility caused by this.

Perhaps try this:

Quit firefox
```

mv ~/.mozilla ~/.mozilla_20080102
```
Launch firefox

firefox3 will create a new ~/.mozilla directory.
See if the font problem goes away. If so, then we can work on transfering your bookmarks. 

If not, you can restore your old mozilla folder:
```
rm -rf ~/.mozilla
mv ~/.mozilla_20080102 ~/.mozilla
```

---

### Post by phantomjoker on 2009-01-03
Ah, yes the first code has worked, but i am not missing all bookmarks etc ( as i assumed judging by your second paragraph.

So how do i get these things back?

Thanks for all your help so far

---

### Post by unutbu on 2009-01-03
Use a file browser to navigate to ~/.mozilla_20080102/firefox/*.default. (Oops this is 2009, not 2008, but oh well... :) )

By *.default I mean something like cwc7hcb0.default. The actual name is randomly generated by firefox. Look for a file called bookmarks.html. Copy it to ~/.mozilla/firefox/*.default.

This should restore your bookmarks.

---

### Post by phantomjoker on 2009-01-03
im sorry i don't understand, do you from your instructions, it seems i am copying the file bookmarks.html into the same location??

---

### Post by -kg- on 2009-01-03
OK, if unutbu doesn't answer this before I can post, I see what he's talking about.

Remember that earlier, he stated:

> Quit firefox

```
mv ~/.mozilla ~/.mozilla_20080102
```

Launch firefox

**_firefox3 will create a new ~/.mozilla directory._**

Note the entry that I underlined...when you run the above code, you're moving the file(s) to a new directory the command creates, which in the above case is "~/.mozilla_20080102"

Then he states:

> Use a file browser to navigate to ~/.mozilla_20080102/firefox/*.default. (Oops this is 2009, not 2008, but oh well...  )

By *.default I mean something like cwc7hcb0.default. The actual name is randomly generated by firefox. Look for a file called bookmarks.html. Copy it to ~/.mozilla/firefox/*.default.

You are browsing to the "~/.mozilla_20080102" directory that was created by the previous "mv" command and copying the contents to the default "~/.mozilla" directory, where the actual files should reside.

"~/.mozilla_20080102" was generated as a directory in which to back up the files you were going to change in the "~/.mozilla" directory, and the later command takes the specific "/firefox/*.default" file (which contains your bookmarks) and copies it to the default directory so you have access to your previous bookmark files.

---

### Post by phantomjoker on 2009-01-04
Ah, i see - but that has not worked. 

Let me just see if i understand, i copy the bookmarks.html file from the /mozilla_20080102 and paste it into the /mozilla

What i have said above is what i have done (obviously not just into a random folder - and folder generated by mozilla... and it has not worked.

---

### Post by unutbu on 2009-01-04
Please post the output of 
```

ls -l ~/.mozilla*/firefox
```

---

### Post by phantomjoker on 2009-01-04
total 8
drwx------ 9 mckenzie mckenzie 4096 2009-01-04 17:52 icpmmsv3.default
-rw-r--r-- 1 mckenzie mckenzie   94 2008-11-21 22:22 profiles.ini

---

### Post by unutbu on 2009-01-04
> i copy the bookmarks.html file from the /mozilla_20080102 and paste it into the /mozilla

Perhaps you moved the original .mozilla folder to
"mozilla_20080102" rather than ".mozilla_20080102". (Notice the period in front of mozilla.)

We need that backup folder in order to restore your bookmarks. 
Hopefully you have it, and we just don't know where it is yet.

Please post the output of 
```

ls -l ~/mozilla*/firefox

```

---

### Post by phantomjoker on 2009-01-04
When i do the restore commands i get everything back, so i know its there... anyway, here's the output (oh and by the way, i am copying the .html file from /**_._**firefox20080102 and pasting it into /**_._**firefox)

>  ls -l ~/.mozilla*/firefox
/home/mckenzie/.mozilla_20080102/firefox:
total 8
drwx------ 9 mckenzie mckenzie 4096 2009-01-04 18:06 icpmmsv3.default
-rw-r--r-- 1 mckenzie mckenzie   94 2008-11-21 22:22 profiles.ini

/home/mckenzie/.mozilla/firefox:
total 8
drwx------ 5 mckenzie mckenzie 4096 2009-01-04 18:08 1nfccdo2.default
-rw-r--r-- 1 mckenzie mckenzie   94 2009-01-04 18:07 profiles.ini 

---

### Post by unutbu on 2009-01-04
Quit firefox
Copy-and-paste this into the terminal:
```

cp ~/.mozilla_20080102/firefox/icpmmsv3.default/bookmarks.html ~/.mozilla/firefox/1nfccdo2.default/bookmarks.html
```

Then restart firefox.
This should restore your bookmarks.

---

### Post by phantomjoker on 2009-01-04
again, this did not work.

I think my bookmarks.html are not my bookmarks, because if i open the file, it takes me to a page telling me what bookmarks are...

---

### Post by unutbu on 2009-01-04
Okay, you are quite right. After reading [http://kb.mozillazine.org/Lost_bookmarks](http://kb.mozillazine.org/Lost_bookmarks) I see that firefox3 saves bookmarks in places.sqlite. 

I did a test on my machine -- the following restores bookmarks for me, hopefully it will work for you too:

```
cp ~/.mozilla_20080102/firefox/icpmmsv3.default/places.sqlite ~/.mozilla/firefox/1nfccdo2.default/places.sqlite
```

---

### Post by phantomjoker on 2009-01-04
with a little change it has worked (my folder in /firefox was called something other than 1nfccdo2.default , but i have my bookmarks.

Shame other settings didn't come too, but all that can be set up in due time. 

Thanks for all your help!

---

