---
title: "Display not using full screen"
date: 2008-08-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Dr. Tat on 2008-08-26
i have a HP Pavilion N5425 with a trident cyberblade/xp (rev 63)
The screen is only taking up the center of the laptops 1280x1024 screen, leaving unused pixels on all sides. The resolution settings are limited to to under 800x600, and there are only 4 different selections. the systems says that it has the correct trident driver installed so i don't know why the resolution is so limited.

---

### Post by nicedude on 2008-08-26
You most likely need a different driver, try googling the graphics chipset along with Ubuntu or Linux and you should find allot of leads on what to do or what driver may work better.

---

### Post by Dr. Tat on 2008-08-26
i tried that before and also just now, but the only promising thing is the driver i have now, the one installed. is it possible that this driver is installed and not enabled?

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-08-26
Techincally you can try reconfiguring your X
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by Dr. Tat on 2008-08-26
i tried entering you code into the terminal however it seems to just be for configuring keyboards.

---

### Post by cookingrock on 2009-04-16
Dr. Tat:

I have the same machine, running Ubuntu 8.10 and the same issue. I have a "cute" little screen bordered on all four sides. I have a feeling that full-screen is possible, but how? 

I've done several searches on the matter and have come up with bupkis. 

Any ideas?

Thanks,
CR

---

### Post by heatpumpcontrol on 2009-04-16
Do a search for Envy linux.... Actually here's the [link]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html"). Follow the install and it will install the correct drivers for you.
 
Easy as that. Be sure you know what type of video card you have, ATI or Nvidia.

Good luck

---

### Post by cookingrock on 2009-04-17
HeatPumpControl: 

Thanks for that. I'm certain envy would work, but it's a weird chipset that is neither ATI nor nVidia. 

So, it goes. Any other ideas? 

Thanks!

--CR

---

### Post by freak42 on 2009-04-17
Maybe you can manually edit your xorg.conf file with the right resolution
(I am no master at this but maybe someone else can help you).
Try looking at the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. (You need root (sudo) rights to edit/save it, (and make a backup beforehand).

Maybe posting the file here will help as well.

hth

---

### Post by sjöbjörn on 2009-04-17
You will find the solution in this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=806835&highlight=trident+cyberblade]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=806835&highlight=trident+cyberblade")

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-04-17
If that doesn't work, run "sudo displayconfig-gtk" in a terminal.  That will launch a panel allowing you to choose monitor and resolution settings manually.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-04-17
Normally, resolution problems are caused by one of the monitor, the graphics card, or the graphics driver not passing the EDID information to X that lets it automatically set the correct refresh rate, and so it defaults to really low values that won't damage any monitors. You can manually set the values for your monitor by putting the VertRefresh and HorizSync ranges in your xorg.conf. You should be able to get these numbers from the manual or specifications for your monitor. These values go in the "Monitor" Section of xorg.conf.

You can edit xorg.conf with ```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```Bear in mind that these are the values for **my** monitor. You'll need to put in the values for **your** monitor, otherwise you could well permanently damage your monitor.

```
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
        HorizSync       30-95
        VertRefresh     50-160
EndSection

```

---

### Post by halitech on 2009-04-17
had the same problem on my toshiba 1800 laptop. here's my xorg.conf 

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device
	Driver		"trident"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS" "true"
	HorizSync	30.0-60.0
	VertRefresh	50.0-70.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection	"Display"
			Depth		24
			Modes		"1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection

EndSection
```

most of it is supposed to be done automagically but doesn't seem to work very well in some cases.

---

### Post by roger_1960 on 2009-04-17
Hi

+1 for Sjobjorns link

---

