---
title: "13.04 Black Screen After Login"
date: 2013-06-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Arwen17evenstar on 2013-06-13
This computer started out with a fresh install of Ubuntu 12.04 LTS, then I upgraded it up to the latest version almost immediately. So 13.04 is practically a fresh install. 

I only get a black screen in ONE specific circumstance: immediately after I login after rebooting the computer, instead of the desktop loading it just goes black. It doesn't matter how the computer is rebooted. The login screen loads, but immediately after logging in the screen goes black. I can lock the screen and its fine. It's the first time the computer boots is the problem.

After restarting the computer several times and fiddling with the power button, the desktop suddenly appears and a popup window displays "an application wants access to the private key" and I enter my password.
I've been through this process every time I restart the computer. I restart it several times, wait sometimes, fiddle with the power button, and finally the desktop appears always with that popup requesting my password for access to the private key. It doesn't tell me what application wants access. It doesn't tell me what private key its talking about. I've tried changing the login keyring to see if that would do anything, but it's had no effect.

It's extremely annoying having to restart the computer several times to finally get the desktop to appear. 
What is causing it to hang and why is that popup appearing?

I know its something specific to this computer because my laptop was upgraded to 13.04(absolutely **not** a fresh install) and has no problems.

---

### Post by grahams on 2013-06-13
What happens if you log into as Guest? If that works OK it may indicate there is an issue with your /home directory, check permissions and ownership

---

### Post by Arwen17evenstar on 2013-06-14
oh thank you. The guest account was disabled so I didn't even think about checking that. Yes, the guest account logged in fine and that gave me a clue to fixing the permissions on the main account. 
Now everything is working perfectly. 
I don't know why but some private key was not being granted access on login. I wasn't the one who installed the 12.04 to begin with, so no idea what the person before me did to it.

---

