---
title: "How do I load the nvidia driver?"
date: 2008-12-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bwallum on 2008-12-20
I have a 22" widescreen monitor that insists on displaying at 1280x1024...yuck. I would like 1680x1050 please. I am not offered that resolution.

I have fiddled too much with this I think, trying to get it going. I've tried using synaptic to download nvidia-glx-177, that appears to have been done. I have downloaded nvidia-177-modaliases and that appears to be ok.

However when I try to run System>Administration>Hardware Drivers I get the screen appended, i.e. no nvidia driver offered. 

I've run sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg, I've make the nvidia-settings command run as root. I get the attached xorg-conf file which doesn't say a lot.

Help please, I would like to run my Xerox 22" LCD at 1680x1050

EDIT: The screenshot showing nothing and the text file showing xorg-conf have been declared invalid. The screenshot shows nothing offered the xorg-conf text is as below:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-12-20
Which nVidia card do you have?  Is your card in your sig.?

---

### Post by bwallum on 2008-12-20
> **taurus said:**
> Which nVidia card do you have?  Is your card in your sig.?

Hi, apologies for any sig confusion, the pc is my daughters and runs an AMD AMD Athlon(tm) 64 Processor 3000+ using a nvidia 6600 LE card by Asus. The latest -11 Intrepid kernel is installed.

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2008-12-20
Give [EnvyNG]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html") a try.

---

### Post by sarang on 2008-12-20
A suggestion:

1. Backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf

2. In the 'Screen' section of xorg.conf add:

```

	Option "UseEdidFreqs" "FALSE"
	Option "HorizSync" "30-70"

```

You may need to play around with the  30-70 values, but it may be worth it.

---

### Post by sarang on 2008-12-20
My working xorg.conf, in case it helps:
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
#SARANG added edid stuff and sync stuff:
	Option "UseEdidFreqs" "FALSE"
	Option "HorizSync" "30-70"

EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
#SARANG: commented out NoLogo option	
	#Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

#SARANG: added DRI group video stuff:

Section "DRI"
     Group 	"video" 
     Mode 	0660
EndSection

```

---

### Post by bwallum on 2008-12-21
I have tried envyng, it managed to get some options in System>Administration>hardware drivers. I am now offered three nvidia drivers. When I choose the recommended and press the activate button, I get request for password and then a window saying it is downloading the driver and then........nothing. I waited for 30 minutes to see if the nothing changed, it didn't.

I have the driver from the repositories. I think I need to build the nvidia kernel module.

How do I build the nvidia kernel module?

EDIT:Some useful stuff found here in response to my own question:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1018553](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1018553)

---

