---
title: "11.10 noobitus"
date: 2011-10-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Paul1967 on 2011-10-25
I took easily to Ubuntu a few years ago when I inherited a vista laptop, and have used the auto upgrade thingy twice before but this time with unfortunate consquences.

Whe I try to boot all I get is a black screen with the following: -

*stopping anac(h)ronistic cron                       [ ok ]
*checking battery state...                                                                           [ ok ]
*Stopping system V runlevel compatibility      [ ok ]

Although most of my stuff is backed up not all is.

I would love to be able to recover or repair the instalation, but would settle for reovering files. The laptop in question is a Acer Travelmate 5520.

The failed upgrade was from 11.04 to 11.10


Please help

---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2011-10-25
Not sure I can be much help patching up your existing installation. But you should be able to rescue / backup any files by booting off a LiveCD / USB - take the "Try Ubuntu" option and simply copy off what you need to an external drive etc.

Might be a sensible first approach anyway, no matter what you decide to do from here on - at least you know you have everything you want backed up before messing with it further :)

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-10-25
Assuming that those messages are saying "Starting", not "Stopping"; try pressing Control-Alt-F2. This should hopefully bring you to a text terminal where you can log in, and then try this command:

```
sudo service lightdm start
```

If lucky you should get the login screen and be able to log in.

If those messages do indeed say that they're "stopping" those services, then I'm stumped.

---

### Post by Paul1967 on 2011-10-25
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Assuming that those messages are saying "Starting", not "Stopping"

Unfortunately they are indeed saying stopping, I have tried the live cd (11.10) but cannot seem to find any pics, ebooks etc.

I know it is my own fault I am in this position but could someone run me through where I am supposed to be able to find the files from my previous install.

Also when I try to upgrade from the live CD it tells me I am already runniong 11.10 so and doesn't let me upgrade through that route. Is there a way of reversing the upgrade I wonder?

---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2011-10-25
It's not your fault that the upgrade didn't go smoothly - just sometimes for some people they just don't unfortunately. 11.04 -> 11.10 is a fairly hefty upgrade as it is moving from GNOME2 to GNOME3 so an awful lot of associated packages are updated / replaced - so more chance for something to glitch.

Yep - you won't be able to run the upgrade again from the CD. And a downgrade back to 11.04 is going to be hugely painful and probably leave you with a nasty kludgy mess even if you kind of succeed.

In the LiveCD environment, when you open the file browser (nautilus) - in the left-hand pane you should see a list of "Places" in which should be something like 100GB Filesystem (the size will vary) - in which you should find the filesystem of your installed version. In there you should be able to browse to /home/*yourusername* (where *yourusername* is umm... your username as on the installation :) ).

If it's not evident in there can you please open a Terminal and post back the output of these two commands:

```
  mount
  sudo fdisk -l

```That is a lowercase L on the fdisk command.

The 1st will tell us what filesystems are currently mounted where while the 2nd will tell us what partitions are on what drives. Then we can go from there.



Ohh - if you happen to have a NVidia graphics card, this thread may be of some use: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859820](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859820)

---

### Post by Paul1967 on 2011-10-27
ok, so the command, mount,   answered with

 /dev/sda1 on / type ext4 (rw,errors=remount-ro,commit=0)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
sysfs on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
fusectl on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw)
none on /sys/kernel/debug type debugfs (rw)
none on /sys/kernel/secyrity type securityfs (rw)
udev on /dev type devtmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
devpts on /dev/pts/ type devpts (rw,noexec,nosuid,gid=5, mode=0620)
tmpfs on /run type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,size=10%,mode=0755)
none on /run/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,size=5242880)
none on /run/shm type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)

and the command, fdisk -l, answered with 

Disk /dev/sda:160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457cylinders, total 312581808 sectors
Units = sectors of 1*512 = 512 bytes
sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier:0x004606d

Device Boot                  start        end          blocks       id         system
/dev/sda1     *              2048   299808767  149903360  83         Linux
/dev/sda2            299810814   312580095      6384641   5         Extended
/dev/sda5            299810816   312580095      6384640  82       Linux swap / solaris


I hope that means more to you than it does to me

---

### Post by Paul1967 on 2011-11-01
Can anyone help?

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-11-01
Please post the specifications for the computer in question, especially RAM and graphics card.

---

