---
title: "8.04 Server network setup"
date: 2008-05-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ozPATT on 2008-05-27
hi all, im sure this is a simple question... i am trying to set 8.04 up as a server, using this tutorial: 

[http://howtoforge.com/perfect-server-ubuntu8.04-lts-p3](http://howtoforge.com/perfect-server-ubuntu8.04-lts-p3)

I am at step 7, but I am just wondering what I should be using as the address? address 192.168.0.100 is an example, but how to I decide what to use for my network, and does it matter? Is this just internal network, or will this be the address that I can access my server from anywhere? 

complete newbie in the world of servers, but loving what I have discovered so far, looking forward to find out about this so i can continue the tutorial :D 

thanks

Patrick

---

### Post by jimv on 2008-05-27
It's going to be an address that you use for your internal network...some something like 19.168.0.10.....basically just use an address that isn't being used by your router or by other machines on your network.

In order to get your server to be visible to the outside world, you have to forward ports through your router to the server.  So you router is going to have an IP address from your ISP, and when someone on the internet types in that address to get to your server, the router needs to know which computer on your network is supposed to get that request.  So in teh case of a website, you would want to forward all requests that your router gets on port 80 to the internal address of your server on port 80.

There should be a section on your router to configure port forwarding.

---

### Post by ozPATT on 2008-05-27
ah ok, thats great, thanks again for your help :D much appreciated :)

hmm, I just changed the details as per the tutorial, and I get the following error when I restart the networking:

```
SIOCDELRT: No such process
SIOCADDRT: No such process
Failed to bring up eth0
```

Then the terminal just hangs... does this make sense?

---

### Post by jimv on 2008-05-28
It can't find the route to one of the address that you entered.  I think it's easier to just use DHCP, and then set your router to permanently assign an IP to that machine.

---

### Post by ozPATT on 2008-05-28
i understand why now :D apparently the address and gateway needs to be the same - sort of :D haha, im not very good at explaining :) but i basically worked out what the right values should have been, and they worked, so thanks very much :)

---

