---
title: "Trendnet TFM 560x modem installation - problem"
date: 2008-08-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by acoluthus on 2008-08-31
Trendnet TFM 560x modem installation - problem[FONT=Arial]
ok, i've been on for a few hours trying to get an external dial-up modem to work. it's linux-approved/compatible, as the manufacturer lists with pride all their linux-compatible products..
I do have cable-ISP that I have to get rid of, (which i s how I'm connecting now)
it took me over an hour to understand and get the scanModem to work. :mad:
I've tried: GnomePPP (the little red telphone) -there's a primary message: <warn>: Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!  that shows up, `no idea what is wrong; all subsequent messages appear "positive" - Initialized,sending,OK, but then I get ERROR; Invalid Dial Command & then it disconnects.
[/FONT][FONT=Arial]Error messages: no dial tone.(my phone is connected after/from the modem so there is signal.)


home/ user/.wvdial.conf<Warn>: Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
WvDial<*1>: WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
WvDial<*1>: Initializing modem.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATZ
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATZ
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Modem initialized.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: AT3370840
WvDial<*1>: Waiting for carrier.
WvDial Modem<*1>: AT3370840
WvDial Modem<*1>: ERROR
WvDial<Err>: Invalid dial command.
WvDial<*1>: Disconnecting at Sun Aug 31 15:58:28 2008

[/FONT][FONT=Arial]I've tried the alternative Terminal-based suggestions, but my results dont' follow through to the ones they advise I should get... wvdial setup commands, as suggested by the facts/help pages, but still no connectivity..

any suggestions?
Question: how do I know if I have the right ModemPort?  when I was in the WVDial Terminal setup instructions, it gave some reference to four options and I wasn't sure..

also: if I've been running around my system in Terminal windows trying to set up connections, have I already auto-copulated my settings between Terminal commands, GnomePPP and ConnectionProperties? lastly: the Panel Icon: modem phone won't let me in; it says "Could not get connection time".

ok: sock-it-to-me with the additional information that you need, again I stand (or bow/grovel) at your collective toes of wisdom...

`AC




[/FONT]

---

