---
title: "9.04, Troubleshoot Hibernate/Suspend, See attached photo"
date: 2009-06-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kendoori on 2009-06-22
I am running 9.04 with 2.6.30, recently changed to address suspected ipv6 issues with my wireless connection. My machine is a Thinkpad X61 with the dreaded  Intel GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller. I have a Lenovo dock, and the machine is connected to an external Samsung 24" monitor.

I've previously had suspend/hibernate issues under old kernel, and was able to eventually resolve, but they have now shown up again under 2.6.30. If I go to hibernate, the machine instantly displays a white screen with angular edges around the outside per the attached. Once this happen, only back alive is to pop the battery. Invoking suspend darkens the screen, but doesn't properly put the machine to sleep.

My Power Management preferences are set to "Put computer to sleep when inactive for: 45 minutes." This seems to work about 75% of the time.

What logs (or other techniques) should I be using to troubleshoot this?

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-06-22
Your screen is definitely weird.  That may be a red herring -- may not have anything to do with Ubuntu, per se.

One thing to check is whether your Swap is the same size (or slightly more) than the amount of memory you have on your machine.

When your machine hibernates, the state of the volatile memory is saved in your swap.  That lets the machine "pass off" the task of keeping state in the volatile memory to the disk, allowing the hibernate mode to use less power.

If your Swap is smaller than the amount of memory , the state information can be garbled or truncated, which could lead to problems coming out of hibernate.

Are you able to get normal operation on hard reboot?

---

### Post by kendoori on 2009-06-22
My swap is 4.79 GiB, and my physical RAM is 4 GiB.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-06-22
Well ...

Sometimes diagnosing a problem is to find out what it is NOT.

My lunch break is about over, but if you don't have a resolution from someone by this evening, I'll do a bit of research and see what I can come up with.

I know there are several posts where people have had similar problems.  You might do a search on "hibernate" and see if you get any traction there.

If you find a resolution, please post your solution so others can try it out.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-06-23
Sorry for the late response.

I don't know if this will help or if it will even be intelligible without knowing your level of expertise with Linux and Ubuntu.  This may be too much to risk if you make a mistake.  You would certainly want to do careful backups.

I would suggest just powering off for the time being, until someone else chimes in. I don't really have a better answer of my own.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Suspend2Kernel](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Suspend2Kernel)

---

