---
title: "12.04 Gnome, no trash can?"
date: 2012-05-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cwmoser on 2012-05-23
Where is the Trash Can in Ubuntu 12.04 using the Gnome 3 desktop?

Carl

---

### Post by Revolutionary101 on 2012-05-23
If you download "Advanced Settings" via the Ubuntu Software Center you can place it on your Desktop. You can also find it on the left sidebar in Nautilus. Other than that I am not entirely sure what you mean i.e. where was it before 12.04?

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2012-05-23
Spot on.
I went to ...
**Applications** -> **System Tools** -> **Preferences** -. [B]Advanced Settings
[/B]
... like you suggested and then in **Desktop**, turned on
**Trash icon visible on desktop**

Thanks much

Carl

---

### Post by Revolutionary101 on 2012-05-23
I am glad I could help!

---

### Post by markbl on 2012-05-23
> **cwmoser said:**
> Where is the Trash Can in Ubuntu 12.04 using the Gnome 3 desktop?
The correct answer is that you click on the Files launcher (i.e. Nautilus) and you see the Trash folder listed on the left pane alongside all the other "special" folders like Desktop, Documents, Downloads, Music, .....

Why do you not also want icons for all those other special folders on your desktop? The reason you think you need a Trash icon prominent on your Desktop is because you had it in gnome2.

If you are visiting the Trash folder so frequently that a single extra click is too much overhead then something is wrong with your workflow.

Sorry, not trying to be too critical. Just trying to get people to think about the rationale behind some of the good ideas of the gnome-shell desktop.

---

### Post by northcamel on 2012-11-27
[https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/48/trash/](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/48/trash/)

install this extention so that you can have a trash in right-top

PS:the trash icon is invisiable when the trash is empty!

Maybe this you help you!

---

