---
title: "10.10 - can I disable updates?"
date: 2011-01-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-01-24
I know this may seem like a dumb question, so a little quick explanation.  I'm sending an old laptop to my elderly parents which has Windows XP and Ubuntu 10.10 on it.  To keep things simple for them, I modified grub.cfg directly (I know that's not the way to do it, but it does what I needed) so it presents the following menu at boot:
 
Get On The Internet
Windows XP
 
The default is Windows XP.  The "Get On The Internet" option actually starts Ubuntu 10.10 with firefox &u in the startup so it goes directly to the browser.  In this way they can still use the Windows programs they are familiar with, but use Ubuntu for the internet so I don't have to worry about one of those phone support calls because of a virus or spyware.
 
So, what I want to make sure of is that the Ubuntu installation NEVER tries an update - this would just confuse my parents and could end of changing grub options such that the grub.cfg file is recreated.
 
Is there a way to completely remove any way for updates to automatically start, notify the user that updates are available, etc., etc., etc.  
 
Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by doublewitt on 2011-01-24
Yes, go to the MENU tab, select ADMINISTRATION, and the UPDATE MANAGER, and after the update manager window appears, choose SETTINGS at the bottom left of the window... just untick UPDATES...

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-01-25
I had to leave for a while so I'm sorry I'm late getting back here.
 
Thanks very much for the solution!!

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-01-25
> **wep940 said:**
>  In this way they can still use the Windows programs they are familiar with, ...
 
such as?
 
as i see it linux porgrammes look a lot like windows. and linux is only missing certain specific programmes (usually certian professional tools and some games), that i somehow doubt your parents need. wouldn't it be better to search for propper alternative and use Ubuntu only?

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-01-26
> **mastablasta said:**
> such as?
 
as i see it linux porgrammes look a lot like windows. and linux is only missing certain specific programmes (usually certian professional tools and some games), that i somehow doubt your parents need. wouldn't it be better to search for propper alternative and use Ubuntu only?
 
I would be all for it - except my parents are elderly and don't take to change very well.  Dad likes things where they are since he knows where everything is and how to use it.  So, the only thing I did was give them a way, using Ubuntu with Firefox auto starting at startup, to access the internet without all the viruses and trojans.  They have good intentions, but don't really understand anti-virus software or anti-malware software.  I put both on their machine but they don't understand, so normally no update gets run until something happens and I ask.  They also don't know to scan downloaded files with anti-virus and anti-malware prior to opening it.
 
So, I appreciate the thought, it just won't work in this particular instance.

---

