---
title: ".msi installation"
date: 2013-06-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by benjie1 on 2013-06-10
Have Ubuntu 13.04 ,32 bit and Intel dual core processors. 6 Gig RAM on Dell Inspiron 560 Desktop. Want to install a videoconferencing program from nanocorp called iSpQ. The installer is ispq9.msi. My videocam is Logitech 9000 and is supported in Skype (Linux) Cheese, Visimeet. Can this .msi be installed without wine if possible? Thanks.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-06-10
I'm not sure if this is of any use to you but with p7zip installied, and the  .msi file renamed to .7z you can open it with the Archive manager to see the files it contains.  I suspect you may still need wine to run whatever is in it, but have no other answer for you.

---

### Post by localhost8080 on 2013-06-10
yeah, an MSI is a microsoft installer file.
you *might* be able to install the program in wine, but even if you can get the installer to work there are no guarantees that the actual program will run.

on the site's homepage they only offer a windows or a mac installer, so if it doesnt work in wine then you dont really have any options

---

### Post by sanderj on 2013-06-10
They tell you to run it in a VM: [http://support.ispq.com/index.php?pid=tutorials&cmd=viewentclient&id=10](http://support.ispq.com/index.php?pid=tutorials&cmd=viewentclient&id=10)

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-10
+1 for VM.  You cannot access USB devices (except keyboard,mouse,printer) in wine.  However you might want to look at a Linux equivalent or one that works with that program.

---

### Post by benjie1 on 2013-06-11
Any suggestions for a Linux equivalent? Have had no luck with Google except Skype whick really isn't the same. Meanwhile I will try this with wine and hope for the best. Thanks.

---

