---
title: "9.04 Wubi Install freezing on &quot;Formatting swap space...&quot;"
date: 2009-06-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by DiegoVH on 2009-06-02
I'm attempting to install Jackalope from Windows 7. I selected a 20Gb install, on a 190Gb partition of a just-defragged 250Gb disk.

The processor is an AMD 64 - x2, so I'm installing from the AMD64 iso. The Windows portion of the install goes perfect, then, after rebooting, I'm stuck at a "Checking the installation..." window forever. "Installing system" gets stuck at 0% while "Formatting swap space in partition #1 of /host/ubuntu/disk...". I read a similar thread that suggested disk fragmentation might be a problem, but the disk's been defragged twice since I started attempting this. 

I could do a "normal" install, but really, I'd feel much safer having Wubi handle setting up the dual boot. I'm not that good at computer wrangling. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-06-02
I think the problem might be windows 7.

---

### Post by markvdm on 2009-06-02
I had the same problem using Wubi on a Asus laptop. I wanted my sister to try out Ubuntu simply because it can teach a couple of good skills, but it just kept freezing in the same place. I had also defraged the drive prior to starting the install. I know Windows defrag is very basic, but it's all I had. Her current OS is XP with all the latest patches.

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-06-02
> **DiegoVH said:**
> I'm attempting to install Jackalope from Windows 7. I selected a 20Gb install, on a 190Gb partition of a just-defragged 250Gb disk.

The processor is an AMD 64 - x2, so I'm installing from the AMD64 iso. The Windows portion of the install goes perfect, then, after rebooting, I'm stuck at a "Checking the installation..." window forever. "Installing system" gets stuck at 0% while "Formatting swap space in partition #1 of /host/ubuntu/disk...". I read a similar thread that suggested disk fragmentation might be a problem, but the disk's been defragged twice since I started attempting this. 

I could do a "normal" install, but really, I'd feel much safer having Wubi handle setting up the dual boot. I'm not that good at computer wrangling. Any suggestions?

Maybe try the 32 bit iso if bandwidth is not an issue.

---

### Post by iBook on 2009-07-12
I can second this on a MacBook (late 2007, 2.2ghz core2, 4gb ram) with both 32 bit and 64 bit disks. Testing 8.04 32 bit as I write this.

---

### Post by crossx14 on 2009-11-13
So, what's the solution?.
I have the same problem.
I have a motherboard Asus A8V, processor AMD Athlon 3000, 1 Gb of RAM (dual channel), hard disk SATA 160 GB.
LiveCD doesn't boot, no matter what I do.
But the .iso seems to boot.
Only the option 'demo' from the Grub menu works, so I assume that I boot from an ISO file in the hard disk, created by Wubi.
By the way, the revision 128 of Wubi included in the LiveCD of Ubuntu 9.04 AMD64 doesn't work.
Under Windows XP 64 bits, It hangs at "Creating the virtual disks".
I had to download the revision 134 from [http://people.ubuntu.com/~evand/wubi/jaunty/wubi-r134.exe](http://people.ubuntu.com/~evand/wubi/jaunty/wubi-r134.exe) . This is the solution, it worked for me.
Thank you Agostino Russo, author and maintainer of Wubi.
Now I try to install from the desktop but I can't manage partitions (step 4 of 7, of the installing process) because I have the /isodevice mounted.
Any idea?

---

