---
title: "10.04 - using Cairo dock"
date: 2010-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-05-11
I've just started trying to use Cairo dock, and I like what I'm seeing so far.  I have run into a couple of things I could use some input on (I've looked in the help and couldn't find these):

- I added a sub-menu for Open Office -> where are the logos for open office located?

- I tried adding the network applet, but it doesn't seem to have all of the options of network manager, such as enabling things, editing connections, etc.  I tried adding a launcher with "nm" as the command, but nothing shows on the dock.  Anyway to get network manager to show on the dock as it does in the default upper task bar?

- how do I add trash to the dock?

Thanks in advance!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by fabounet on 2010-05-11
> where are the logos for open office located?
just drag and drop the launchers from the Application Menu to get a valid launcher.

the network applet does currently not list the wifi connections. It's a work in progress.
Meanwhile, the nm indicator can live in the systray applet.

> how do I add trash to the dock?
There is a Dustbin applet.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-05-11
I already added via drag and drop, then moving to a new sub, the open office programs.  What I'm looking for is an icon for open office itself to put on the sub in the dock.

Can't drag and drop network manager to the dock - it just opens up a menu instead.  Tried adding network manager as a launcher to the dock, didn't work.  Still had no way to specify the connection.  Tried deleting network manager and the gnome applet, which resulted in disaster.  No longer able to get on the net from Ubuntu, via windows downloaded the network manager and gnome applet packages, took to Ubuntu machine and installed, but now network manager has an "x" by it and won't let me connect to my network (the connection was still defined).  Don't remember what all now (it was the middle of the night) that I did, but somehow got it so screwed up I couldn't do anything.  I had already deleted everything I could from the top task bar (intended to delete it after everything was working on the dock the way I wanted) and was not able to restore.

Before all the big mess, I did get the trash applet installed to the dock.

So, couldn't drag and drop network manager or applet, resulting steps "hosed" my install.  Nothing that important that I need to worry about backing up, so just going to reinstall.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by fabounet on 2010-05-12
I meant, the network-monitor applet you usually see in your gnome-panel will also be in the Systray of the dock (if you remove the systray from the gonme-panel, and then enable the one from the dock).
It's not a pretty applet (doesn't go directly inside the dock), just a way to run the gnome's systray without needing to have a gnome-panel running.

---

