---
title: "Need help in editing title entries in GRUB2"
date: 2009-10-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bangmalley on 2009-10-27
I just installed karmic, and I just realized that there's no more menu.lst
Instead, I get grub.cfg
I just wanted to edit the title entries and comment out some which I won't use (no messing around with hdx,x). For example, I want to change the "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" to just "Ubuntu" and comment out memtest.
I got the warning "DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE", not only confuse me (because I'm used to edit menu.lst) but scares me.
So, is it safe that I continue editing the grub.cfg or is there any alternative?

---

### Post by kellemes on 2009-10-27
> **bangmalley said:**
> I just installed karmic, and I just realized that there's no more menu.lst
Instead, I get grub.cfg
I just wanted to edit the title entries and comment out some which I won't use (no messing around with hdx,x). For example, I want to change the "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" to just "Ubuntu" and comment out memtest.
I got the warning "DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE", not only confuse me (because I'm used to edit menu.lst) but scares me.
So, is it safe that I continue editing the grub.cfg or is there any alternative?

It's safe as long as you know what you're doing ;-)
**Always** make a backup of the file before editing.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-10-27
> **bangmalley said:**
> ... So, is it safe that I continue editing the grub.cfg or is there any alternative?

It's not entirely safe because, in 9.10, kernel upgrades will AUTOMATICALLY run grub-config which will then, AUTOMATICALLY, rewrite the entire contents of the config file -- which the the primary reason folks are told NOT to edit it.

As to alternatives, Startup Manager has not yet been updated to work with GRUB2, so today, that's not available.  But there are tutorials around about creating custom config files that you CAN edit, replacing the standard script files, which is the preferred approach for now.

---

### Post by LunaticHiatus on 2009-10-27
you can use Grub Conf to customize grub 2 since start up manager will only work with grub legacy.

---

### Post by stlsaint on 2009-10-27
DO NOT EDIT GRUB.CFG directly! use either the 40_customs file or use /etc/defaul/grub (double check that) but after you edit one of those files then run update-grub from terminal and it will update the grub.cfg file. That warning comes up because the grub.cfg file is in read only mode and you must change its perms to access it! (not recommended) 

PS...This contains to grub2 only, for grub legacy use grubs menu.lst

---

