---
title: "11.10_Cannot Proceed With Install!"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by idku on 2011-10-16
So here is what happened. I stuck 11.10 on a USB, plugged it into my netbook and told it to wipe out everything and install. 

But now i'm screwed. I tell it my time zone, give it my name/password... then it says 'hey, choose a picture!' Sure. Done. Now what? On the left I see me, on the right some pictures. No 'forward' button, no 'continue', no 'finish' button to hit. I take a photo, I choose a display picture, yet I cannot proceed. 

I'm going to scream. I can't use my original install, it's gone. I can't proceed with this install. Help, help... please... :(

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-10-17
Is it possible to post a screenshot from the live usb environment?

---

### Post by idku on 2011-10-17
-attempts this-

---

### Post by idku on 2011-10-17
Best I can do!

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-10-17
As your netbook has rather low resolution display, the buttons to continue are outside of the screen. Hold down the Alt key and you'll be able to move the installer window upwards with your mouse, giving you access to rest of the window and the buttons.

---

### Post by ergo-proxy on 2011-10-17
Cant you skip choose a picture stage? One more advice: cut off your internet before installation ;)

---

### Post by idku on 2011-10-17
> **mcduck said:**
> As your netbook has rather low resolution display, the buttons to continue are outside of the screen. Hold down the Alt key and you'll be able to move the installer window upwards with your mouse, giving you access to rest of the window and the buttons.

...<3!! This worked! /hug ...thank you times a million 

> **ergo-proxy said:**
> Cant you skip choose a picture stage? One more advice: cut off your internet before installation ;)

I couldn't skip it. I had no access to any buttons of any kind. That's what was terrible about it. :(

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-10-17
It's kinda frustrating the way these things go in cycles.

Ubuntu's installer used to cut off the buttons on smaller screens. They fixed it in the next version. Now they've forgotten about the original problem and added a screen to the installer that's too big for those same smaller screens, resulting in the buttons being cut off again.

Sorry for not picking up on it myself (I installed on my netbook early in the cycle) but shouldn't they have a design document that says "No Ubuntu-specific window must spawn bigger than (X times Y)"?

---

