---
title: "12.10 - white boxes around desktop icons"
date: 2012-12-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2012-12-29
I had a "small" problem in that Firefox quit responding - even killing the process in the command line did nothing, so I had to reboot.  After the reboot, I now have white squares around my desktop icons.  I assume this is probably something easy to fix, but I have found no reference via the search of the forums or of the internet.  Not sure how it happened, but would like to reverse it.

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-12-29
What Ubuntu version and desktop environment are you using ?

---

### Post by daslinkard on 2012-12-30
> **squakie said:**
> I had a "small" problem in that Firefox quit responding - even killing the process in the command line did nothing, so I had to reboot.  After the reboot, I now have white squares around my desktop icons.  I assume this is probably something easy to fix, but I have found no reference via the search of the forums or of the internet.  Not sure how it happened, but would like to reverse it.

Any help would be appreciated.

When you say that you have white squares around your desktop icons....do you mean a white square like a border or is the entire icon a white square?

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-12-30
Like a border - I've attached a screen shot.  Running 12.10, currently using Unity.  I have other desktops installed (KDE, Gnome shell) but mainly use Unity.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Chogan on 2012-12-30
> **squakie said:**
> Like a border - I've attached a screen shot.
where is the screen shot?

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-12-30
Oh crap - I always seem to do that!  Hopefully it's attached to this message ;)

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-12-30
Nautilus handles the desktop so restarting it may help if the problem is nautilus related.  ```
nautilus -q
```

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-12-30
Possibly you are using nautilus 3.6 (from gnome3 ppa?). If so there is a bug that's been fixed upstream though not in the ppa nautilus build yet.
(fixed in nautilus-3.6.3  used in 13.04
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/1085320](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/1085320)

related recent thread
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=12424827#post12424827](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=12424827#post12424827)

You can wait for ppa to do another build or build yourself with a patched source

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-12-30
> **mc4man said:**
> Possibly you are using nautilus 3.6 (from gnome3 ppa?). If so there is a bug that's been fixed upstream though not in the ppa nautilus build yet.
(fixed in nautilus-3.6.3  used in 13.04
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/1085320](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/1085320)

related recent thread
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=12424827#post12424827](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=12424827#post12424827)

You can wait for ppa to do another build or build yourself with a patched source

You're exactly right!  I had a TON of Gnome 3 updates the same day, in fact I think right before Firefox locked up and I rebooted and got the squares.  I did notice Nautilus looks VERY different.  I may try patching the source - I need a project anyway.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-12-30
> **squakie said:**
>   I did notice Nautilus looks VERY different.  I may try patching the source - I need a project anyway.
The new 3.X nautilus is very much changed, some like, some don't.
I like it though do make some changes & return a few missing/removed items.

In any event easy to patch, adjust & build - you can build as packages or just a make install (though if make installing to /usr/local you'd likely want to link some extensions from other apps, ect.
(I build the git master with make install & the current patched as .deb packages normally.

Here using 6 patches in 13.04 & 7 in 12.10 - 
toolbar7.patch - make toolbar narrower, add parent button, move gear menu to the left side
listtree3.patch - restore tree view in list mode
nome.patch - show real owner name in list view
open-with.patch - allow open with on folders
recursive_search.patch - enable recursive searching
New_Docu.patch - remove duped "New Document" in context if using plain text template
+ git_launcher_no_frame.patch in 12.10 - the bug in question
screen is ex. in 13.04

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-12-31
Nice detail on fixing it up - but does any of that fix the white boxes around my desktop icons?  If not, I'll need to find some information on the problem, anticipated solution, then incorporate that into what I have.

Thanks!

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-12-31
> **squakie said:**
> Nice detail on fixing it up - but does any of that fix the white boxes around my desktop icons?  If not, I'll need to find some information on the problem, anticipated solution, then incorporate that into what I have.

Thanks!
Yes - the patch for that is in the current nautilus-3.6 source for raring -  "git_launcher_no_frame.patch "

Attached below

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-12-31
Thanks!  I'll get all the patches you have mentioned in later today (well, hopefully, but you know, New Years Eve and all ;)  ).

---

