---
title: "10.10 or 10.04?"
date: 2011-01-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Proto Blaze on 2011-01-06
Which should I go for? I have 10.04 saved on a flash drive but i am wondering what improvements are made and if its worth updating... considering 10.04 is lts

---

### Post by A_M_S on 2011-01-06
10.04 (LTS) is a good choice if you want stability and a long term support.The lifetime of 10.10 is smaller.

You can try 10.10 if something doesn't work on your system with 10.04 or you want to try the new features released.

---

### Post by Proto Blaze on 2011-01-06
i had 10.04 on my system before... but removed it cause i partitioned too much space for it. now i want to reinstall ubuntu... but i didnt know which one to get... guess ill stick with 10.04

---

### Post by xovelneo on 2011-01-06
Depends on what you usually do with your PC.
10.10 is the only one stable feature release i found so far so i would definely go for it.
I usually mind about stability only for server and go for features for client versions.

I found many bad part in the packages choice made by ubuntu team on 10.04 'cause many of them are superbuggy the only exception is obviously kernel and other major stability wise packages like apache, mysql, ecc....
In 10.10 are stable too though!

As example 10.04 has krusader 2.0.0 that is full of bugs while the 10.10 has 2.2.0beta that is far more stable. Apt get  in 10.04 has a known bug in the way it handle file tracking during package installations that can cause a throuble in case you upgrade to 10.10. Thunderbird of 10.04 is the 3.0.x version that has a very bad bug that loses e-mails sometimes when you move a folder from an imap online folder to a local one that have been corrected in the 3.1.x of 10.10. Some glytches are still present in the graphic interface with the kde for kubuntu version that have been solved with the new kde in the 10.10. And we have many new drivers added or updated.


By the way... i would go for 10.10 for a client pc.

Hope my reply has been usefull.

---

### Post by RedRat on 2011-01-06
Much will depend on how you use your computer and your own personality. There are some who like to be on the cutting edge of operating systems, to test new features. If you are in this category then go for the latest and greatest. However, if you view the computer as a tool to get business done, i.e., read email, visit web pages, schoolwork, run a business or things of that nature, stick with the stable release for as long as you can. 

I have two computers, one runs 10.04 LTS (a laptop) and my desktop which still runs 8.04 LTS. Frankly, the 8.04 machine still does what I want but there are improvements in 10.04 release. While I will not go back to 8.04, I would suggest that you stick with the LTS versions.

---

