---
title: "9.10 will not boot,"
date: 2011-06-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by SUperougi on 2011-06-03
(0.01634 bug unable to handle kernel), also (unknown boot option +0x0/0x19e) no curser at this message. Will list various lines of checking and will have curser.
Newbie here so be gentle!

---

### Post by ubudog on 2011-06-03
Hi there.

Have you done any updates recently?  It was working before, right?

---

### Post by SUperougi on 2011-06-03
No updates lately, although Some auto updates have been done in the past week or so. I don't normally use this computer, wife does. Worked fine yesterday, this morning on boot up it didn't.

---

### Post by ubudog on 2011-06-04
Hmm... the auto updates are probably the problem.  Sometimes Ubuntu releases updates that have new kernels which don't work with certain computers.

Try this:
Restart the computer, and right after the BIOS screen, hold the shift key.  A boot menu should come up.  You should see something like this:
[http://equima.pfpfree.net/wp-content/uploads/2009/11/Grub-500x328.jpg](http://equima.pfpfree.net/wp-content/uploads/2009/11/Grub-500x328.jpg)

Select the previous kernel.  (normally two below the default selection)

Press enter to start it up.  It should start up fine.  Let me know how it goes.  :)

---

### Post by ubudog on 2011-06-04
If the previous post doesn't work, or is not the issue, it could be that some software was installed that is the problem.  Has anyone installed anything lately on the computer?

---

### Post by SUperougi on 2011-06-04
tried using the shift key method, all I got was a pause in the boot up with a cursor. After releasing the shift key, it went to grub loading then a screen to select from several operating systems. Ubuntu 9.10x2  w/recovery (tried both, neither worked,)  there is a windows XP bare shell, and a SUSE 10.1 with a failsafe, none of these has worked. would like to get rid of the excess, but one thing at a time. This window also shows a memory test (memtest86+) + (memtest86+, serial console 115200).

Have not installed any new programs in the last days between boot ups.

Will be on and off today so will let you know anything as it occurs.

Thanks

---

### Post by beew on 2011-06-04
Hey,

9.10 has pasted end of life, meaning it is no longer supported. Instead of wasting your time trying to trouble shoot it, you should just do a fresh install of 10.04, 10.10 or 11.04.

---

### Post by SUperougi on 2011-06-04
How do I recover files if I install 11.04?

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-06-04
You should be able to recover any files by booting from the live cd/usb and selecting "try ubuntu" then navigating to your files to copy them.

---

### Post by ubudog on 2011-06-04
Yep, I also recommend installing 10.04, 10.10, or 11.04.

To recover your files, do as Quackers said, and navigate to your hard drive using the file browser.  Your files should be in home/yourusername (yourusername being your user name).

---

### Post by beew on 2011-06-04
> **Quackers said:**
> You should be able to recover any files by booting from the live cd/usb and selecting "try ubuntu" then navigating to your files to copy them.

Copy them and save to an external drive, which should be attached to the PC when you boot into the live usb. Can't save to the CD and the usb is probably not big enough.

---

### Post by SUperougi on 2011-06-06
Sorry been away from the computer, tried to create startup USB stick from 11.04 got it copied but it would not start on primary machine. Set as primary HDD on that machine. Used tha steps on the unbuntu web for down loading but in main menu create startup disk it would not.

Thanks for the help so far. Should I start a new thread?

---

### Post by ubudog on 2011-06-06
I guess you should start a new thread, up to you.  If you do, give us the link.  :-)

So it didn't work when you tried to write the iso to the USB disk? (System>Administration>Startup Disk Creator)

---

### Post by SUperougi on 2011-06-07
I got the ISO onto the USB thumbdrive but the disk creator didn't seem to follow the steps given on the home download page. Maybe I didn't follow the sequence right. I am trying it over,

---

