---
title: "11.04 desktop goes into Suspend every 5 minutes"
date: 2012-01-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by George Heine on 2012-01-27
Hello - 

If I leave workstation unattended for a very short amount of time (about 5 minutes), desktop 
goes into suspend mode and I need to enter password again.   Seems to happen whether on 
battery or AC power.  How do I set the timeout to a more reasonable length, or 
disable it altogether?  I have set the System\Power Management preferences for "put 
computer to sleep" to NEVER for AC power and 0:30 for battery power; doesn't seem to 
affect this behaviour.

Have an installation of 11.04 on a Toshiba NB505.  (Dual-boot with Windows 7).  

Woluld prefer a command-line solution (e.g., editing a config file), but will gladly accept any advice.

thank you !

---

### Post by ruffEdgz on 2012-01-27
If you are using Unity, you should be able to search for 'power' and find the application named just that.

From there, you will see two columns, one for AC Power and the other for plugged in.

The option you want to change is 'suspend when inactive for:' and change the value from 5 minutes to something else. The most you can is 1 hour or you can just say 'Don't suspend'.

Hope that helps.

::UPDATE::

I found that there have been issues with suspend/hibernate on 11.04 (they aren't totally the same but wanted to keep that in mind):
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/829346](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/829346)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1742470](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1742470)

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2012-01-27
Your netbook is relatively new, and therefore ubuntu 11.04 might not have the proper support due to the kernel being older. Perhaps ubuntu 11.10 will work better because newer kernels have better hardware support.

---

