---
title: "11.04 wifi won't authenticate"
date: 2011-07-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Inphernal on 2011-07-12
Hi all,
Just installed 11.04, and all went fairly smooth.
However, now that I've booted into Ubuntu, the wifi refuses to authenticate.
It keeps asking for the network key for my wifi network (which I enter correctly), and does not connect.
It worked completely fine for installation, and when i go into my router on my other PC, I see the Ubuntu computer in the DHCP tables.
The wireless card in the Ubuntu computer is an Atheros AR9285, and it worked flawlessly with 10.10 before.
The router is a Cisco Linksys E3000, and also worked fine before.
Any suggestions?

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-07-12
How did you install 11.04? If it was from a live cd, rather than an upgrade, I've had something like this, turned out to be grot on the cd. If you installed from cd, try:

a) quick fix-polish cd with suitable cloth. Then re-install

b) else:re-burn cd (try a slower burn speed). Then re-install

Don't have a clue if you upgraded. :(

---

### Post by Inphernal on 2011-07-12
> **MG&TL said:**
> How did you install 11.04? If it was from a live cd, rather than an upgrade, I've had something like this, turned out to be grot on the cd. If you installed from cd, try:

a) quick fix-polish cd with suitable cloth. Then re-install

b) else:re-burn cd (try a slower burn speed). Then re-install

Don't have a clue if you upgraded. :(

I installed it over a broken 11.04 from 10.10 upgrade, but formatted that / partition.
Didn't format my old /home partition though, just re set that to /home.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-07-12
You do have right wep or wpa, check edit connections in network manager applet.

---

### Post by westie457 on 2011-07-12
Hi I had a similar problem a while ago with the router not accepting the WPA password. The work around I did was to connect a cable to enable me to access the home page of the router and reset it to factory default.

Then instead of doing an automatic set-up I did a manual one removing all security to get a working connection then I went through the pages of the router and set up 'MAC Address Filtering' only allowing access to my dual-booting pc's. Finally I changed the log in details from the default settings to stop others from piggy-backing off my connection. Have been using it that way for a year now.

PS I have tried a couple of times to use it with a password and one OS still refuses to accept it.

Hope this is helpful to you.


Or you could try changing to WEP

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2011-07-12
I would temporarily remove the password key requirement and allow your computer to connect.  Later you can change the requirement back.  It worked for me.

---

### Post by Inphernal on 2011-07-13
> **garvinrick4 said:**
> You do have right wep or wpa, check edit connections in network manager applet.

> **westie457 said:**
> Hi I had a similar problem a while ago with the router not accepting the WPA password. The work around I did was to connect a cable to enable me to access the home page of the router and reset it to factory default.

Then instead of doing an automatic set-up I did a manual one removing all security to get a working connection then I went through the pages of the router and set up 'MAC Address Filtering' only allowing access to my dual-booting pc's. Finally I changed the log in details from the default settings to stop others from piggy-backing off my connection. Have been using it that way for a year now.

PS I have tried a couple of times to use it with a password and one OS still refuses to accept it.

Hope this is helpful to you.


Or you could try changing to WEP

> **Rex Bouwense said:**
> I would temporarily remove the password key requirement and allow your computer to connect.  Later you can change the requirement back.  It worked for me.

Thank you for the replies.
I tried all of these suggestions, nothing worked.

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-07-13
Sorry to hear about that. :(

If nothing at all works, you could try a USB wireless converter-I find they tend to be more reliable than the built-in wireless. Unfortunately, they're not free. About £20 from PC world. Although of course, try anything that's free first.

---

### Post by Inphernal on 2011-07-13
I managed to fix the problem by going into the router settings, under firewall settings, and unchecking "filter anonymous requests".

However, I feel like this might be a security issue, so as a follow up, does anyone know what I could do to fix this on my laptop? It was only my laptop experienceing this issue; our other desktop connected wirelessly with no problems even with that option active.

Thank you, everyone, for your help!

---

