---
title: "8.10 - Madwifi and Aircrack-ng on Acer Aspire One"
date: 2009-01-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by halberdier25 on 2009-01-22
Hello again,

I have Ubuntu 8.10 running off my thumbdrive now and my wireless card has been set up with madwifi, but now I'm trying to get aircrack to work (out of pure curiosity--I want to see how vulnerable I am).

I download the package and it winds up on my desktop.  I put in: ```
tar xfz aircrack-ng-1.0-rc1.tar.gz
``` and I get: ```
tar: aircrack-ng-1.0-rc1.tar.gz: Cannot open: No such file or directory
tar: Error is not recoverable: exiting now
tar: Child returned status 2
tar: Error exit delayed from previous errors
```

Any suggestions?  Thanks!

---

### Post by halberdier25 on 2009-01-22
I'm not sure how legal double posting and bumping are on this forum, but I've seen it done so I'll join the club.

This is something I think should be relatively simple.  How do I point terminal to the .tar.gz file?

---

### Post by A-Dog on 2009-02-20
Hi there.

I'm also trying to get Aircrack-ng going on my Aspire One in Ubuntu 8.10. I had a hell of a time messing around with the tarball as well. In the end I just typed this in the terminal:

sudo apt-get install aircrack-ng

And it installed the package. I could swear that that's the VERY FIRST THING i tried, maybe I typo-ed. Anyway, it's installed now. Maybe it'll work for you?

I'm still having trouble getting injection to work, though. I can't seem to find a way to install the madwifi-ng driver. Apt doesn't find it, and every link I click seems to be broken. Subversion isn't finding it either.

Anybody know what's going on there?

---

### Post by tysonh on 2009-02-20
Ive had the same trouble getting test injection to work.  Im not sure if its my particular wifi card or if im doing something wrong.  I get the same error every time I try the injection process.  Its says invalid BSSID.  Are you getting the same error message?

---

