---
title: "Trying to disable vertical scrolling on touchpad"
date: 2009-08-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cantim on 2009-08-26
I just installed ubuntu nbr 9.04 and I'm trying to figure out how to disable vertical scrolling by editing the xorg.conf file. I just downloaded gysnpatics, but it said it could not intialize and I had to set SHM Config 'true' . But I don't see that in the file and it does not even list my touchpad even though my touchpad works. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by Darkwing-Duck on 2009-08-26
Edit the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file:

In the termanel (Alt+F2):

```
sudo gedit /ect/X11/xorg.conf
```

After the line 


Code:
```
Option "HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
```

insert:

Code:
```
Option "VertScrollDelta"	"0"
```

If you need any more help let us know!

---

### Post by cantim on 2009-08-27
I don't think I'm quite sure where to put those lines in.
This is what my xorg.conf file looks like.


>     # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Option "HorizScrollDelta"    "0"
Option "VertScrollDelta"    "0"
Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection


---

### Post by tictacman on 2009-08-29
I have a Samsung N110 netbook and the touchpad + "scroll pad" has been driving me crazy.  I'm always inadvertently touching the pad and the critter is copying and pasting changing tabs in remix etc.  Fortunately the function key fn+ f10 turns off the touchpad completely. It might be a different combination for Cantim.

 I would also like to know where the configuration for the touchpad is.  My xorg conf has virtually no settings just like Cantim's

gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf =


Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

