---
title: "9.10 Sound from only one speaker"
date: 2010-02-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Commander_Bob on 2010-02-24
I just upgraded to 9.10 any my X-Fi Fatal1ty Pro sound card is only outputting sound to one speaker (the left one). This card is supposed to work out of the box in 9.10, but in 9.04 I had to install the driver myself from the creative site and it worked fine.

The balancer is set to the center and if I move it all the way to the right no sound comes out.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by ubudog on 2010-02-25
Look in the sound preferences.  Might have to change some settings there.

---

### Post by Commander_Bob on 2010-03-30
I actually was having a hard time getting my card to work at all, so I sent it in and just got it back. It now works fine in Windows, but I am having the same problem in Linux. I am only getting sound from one speaker. I tried messing with the preferences and if I put the balance all the way to the right I get no sound.

Also if I don't play any sounds for a few seconds I get a really loud hissing from my speakers. They used to not do this in 9.04.

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-03-30
Run this command in a terminal:
```
alsamixer
```
Press F6 and select the proper soundcard.
Press F3 and use arrow keys to scroll right and adjust levels.
Right carets (>) mean there are more options you can't see

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-03-30
Further, check out this page:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingSoundProblems/KarmicCaveats]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingSoundProblems/KarmicCaveats")
It may benefit you to install the backports.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2010-03-31
You are not alone and are not imagening things...

I also have sound from only one speaker on my little netbook.  Sounds works on both channels with a USB headset, but not on the analogue circuits.  So far I have not been able to find a solution short of re-installing everything.  

Sound works properly when I boot it with Knoppix off a USB stick, so it is not a hardware problem - very annoying.

---

