---
title: "12.04: Editing Ambiance to make it less &quot;white&quot;"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-04-28
I want to replace all white and nearly white with something less bright when using the existing default theme in 12.04 (Unity 3D) which is Ambiance.

I don't want to install a third-party dark theme. So I'm starting off by editing /usr/share/themes/Ambiance/gtk-3.0/settings.ini.

It will be a longish effort because the effects aren't visible immediately and may require a switch to a different theme and back or, possibly, even a log out and log in for the changes to take effect.

I don't have a formal knowledge of CSS and the documentation on this whole gtk stuff is written for professionals. So it's quite a bit of trial an error, using unique colors to find out what is what but I did it with 11.10.

---

### Post by fantab on 2012-04-28
I would be very interested with what you come up. Do keep us posted.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-04-28
Here's what I have so far...


This is the original settings.ini putting things on separate lines and numbering them for reference:


[Settings]
1: gtk-color-scheme = "base_color:#ffffff\n
2: bg_color:#f2f1f0\n
3: tooltip_bg_color:#000000\n
4: selected_bg_color:#f07746\n
5: text_color:#3C3C3C\n
6: fg_color:#4c4c4c\n
7: tooltip_fg_color:#ffffff\n
8: selected_fg_color:#ffffff\n
9: link_color:#DD4814\n
10: bg_color_dark:#3c3b37\n
11: fg_color_dark:#dfdbd2"
12: gtk-auto-mnemonics = 1

Changes
1: changed from #ffffff (white) to #777777 (grey) or pink.
Effect: None discovered so far.

2: changed from #f2f1f0 (very pale blue, almost white) to #c2c1c0.
Effect:
Nautilus Places background is darkened but not the pane on the right where files are listed which remains "white".
Totem is darker except for the playlist area.
Gedit tabs, tab bar and bottom status bar take this color. (The actual gedit page where we type stuff can be altered from within gedit preferences.)
The Save As box in Gedit also seems improved partly. The "frame" is darker.
Gnome Tweak Tool (aka Advanced Settings in Ubuntu Software Center) right pane is darkened but not the left one which is still "white".

3: changed from #000000 to teal.
Effect:  None discovered so far.

4: Not white so not changed.

5: Not white so not changed.

6: Not white so not changed.

7: changed from #ffffff to green.
Effect: Now tooltips in Nautilus, gedit have green text. Other things like Firefox, Chrome, or LibreOffice aren't affected. Their tooltip text is still white on black. 

8: changed from #ffffff to pink.
Effect:  None discovered so far.

9: Not white so not changed.

10:  Not white so not changed.

11: changed from #dfdbd2 (nearly white) to #ccff00
Effect:  None discovered so far.

12: Not a color! Left as is.

In short, the most significant change, IMO, is for #2: changing bg_color from #f2f1f0 to something less white: #c2c1c0.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-04-28
What I don't like is the "unexpected" consequences. Changing bg_color in settings.ini affects the text color of desktop icons! I'd have thought messing with fg_color would do it. But no!

---

### Post by fantab on 2012-04-28
Check out the links below if you haven't already:

[COLOR=DarkRed][orford.org/gtk/]("http://www.orford.org/gtk/")[/COLOR]
[COLOR=DarkRed][GnomeArt/Tutorials/UsefulLinks]("http://live.gnome.org/GnomeArt/Tutorials/UsefulLinks")[/COLOR]
[COLOR=DarkRed][thewidgetfactory]("http://linuxappfinder.com/package/thewidgetfactory")[/COLOR]

---

### Post by robgraves on 2012-04-28
By any chance can we see a screenshot of your current revisions of the theme?

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-04-28
> **robgraves said:**
> By any chance can we see a screenshot of your current revisions of the theme?
Sure. Here you go:
[https://docs.google.com/open?id=0B4gs9P5_zkgeblFSamJYYWVIbWs](https://docs.google.com/open?id=0B4gs9P5_zkgeblFSamJYYWVIbWs)

Note: I don't know if it matters, but my desktop is a plain black color. No gradient/pattern/wallpaper.

The changes```

To /usr/share/themes/Ambiance/gtk-3.0/settings.ini
bg_color:#f2f1f0 changed to #a2a1a0
text_color:#3C3C3C changed to black
tooltip_fg_color:#ffffff changed to green

To /usr/share/themes/Ambiance/gtk-3.0/gtk.css.
Line 1: /* default color scheme */
Line 2: @define-color bg_color #f2f1f0; <<< changed to #b2b1b0. (This change made no visible difference so I let it be on the off-chance that it maybe useful!) 
Line 3: @define-color fg_color #4c4c4c; <<< unchanged
Line 4: @define-color base_color #ffffff; <<< changed to #a2a1a0.
```

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-04-28
> **fantab said:**
> Check out the links below if you haven't already:

[COLOR=DarkRed][orford.org/gtk/]("http://www.orford.org/gtk/")[/COLOR]
[COLOR=DarkRed][GnomeArt/Tutorials/UsefulLinks]("http://live.gnome.org/GnomeArt/Tutorials/UsefulLinks")[/COLOR]
[COLOR=DarkRed][thewidgetfactory]("http://linuxappfinder.com/package/thewidgetfactory")[/COLOR]
I had looked at a lot of stuff when I was trying to get 11.10 the way I wanted but it turned out to be quite a science by itself.

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-04-28
I hope you made a backup copy before you started making manual changes to such an important file!
 
 If what you are primarily concerned about is the color of the text  elements, you might be better off using Gnome Color  Chooser and making fine adjustments from there rather than manually  editing a configuration file.  Gnome Color Chooser is not limited to  only text elements, but that may be more than you are worried about  right now.

It has been a long time since I have used it, but I'm relatively sure that with Gnome Color Chooser you can choose which text elements to change by category.  That is, you won't change all text elements globally, but just for menus, toolbars, etc.  You could leave the text on your icons alone.

You will see the results immediately without having to switch back and forth between themes.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-04-28
> **QIII said:**
> I hope you made a backup copy before you started making manual changes to such an important file!
 
 If what you are primarily concerned about is the color of the text  elements, you might be better off using Gnome Color  Chooser and making fine adjustments from there rather than manually  editing a configuration file.  Gnome Color Chooser is not limited to  only text elements, but that may be more than you are worried about  right now.

It has been a long time since I have used it, but I'm relatively sure that with Gnome Color Chooser you can choose which text elements to change by category.  That is, you won't change all text elements globally, but just for menus, toolbars, etc.  You could leave the text on your icons alone.

You will see the results immediately without having to switch back and forth between themes.

Thanks for your post!
Yes, I backed up the entire themes folder.
I used Gnome Color Chooser when on 11.10. There's this whole gtk3 versus gtk2 thing and I think GCC only works with the gtk2 stuff.

My main aim is to reduce the amount of "white" or "nearly white" on the screen. White text on a dark background is not so much of a problem as the large swathes of white background.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-04-28
Doing the gtk2 stuff is relatively easy. This is what I have:
[B]Original
[/B]gtk-color-scheme = "base_color:#ffffff\nfg_color:#4c4c4c\ntooltip_fg_color:#ffffff\nselected_bg_color:#f07746\nselected_fg_color:#FFFFFF\ntext_color:#3C3C3C\nbg_color:#F2F1F0\ntooltip_bg_color:#000000\nlink_color:#DD4814"

[B]Modified ([SIZE="3"]spaces need to be removed[/SIZE])
[/B]gtk-color-scheme = "base_color : D arkKhaki\nfg_color:#4c4c4c\ntooltip_fg_color : D arkKhaki\nselected_bg_color:#f07746\nselected_fg_color : DarkKhaki\ntext_color:#3C3C3C\nbg_color : DarkKhaki\ntooltip_bg_color : #000000\nlink_color : #DD4814"

My Firefox, Seamonkey and LibreOffice are now just perfect.

So, I'm all set.

I have to edit this post because colon followed by D gets messed up :(

---

