---
title: "8.10 - gui to unmount usb stick?"
date: 2008-12-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by candtalan on 2008-12-16
How do I use gui in Kubuntu 8.10 to unmount a usb stick?
Come to that, how do I use gui to examine the usb stick properties?

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2008-12-16
hi candtalan, 
is there no option when you right click on the usb flash stick drive icon :p to "Unmount Volume"?
sry have to ask, do not use kubuntu that often.

---

### Post by Pjotrovitz on 2008-12-16
In Dolphin, there is a pane listing all your drives on the left side. Just right click and select "Safely Remove This Device".

---

### Post by candtalan on 2008-12-16
> **Pjotrovitz said:**
> In Dolphin, there is a pane listing all your drives on the left side. Just right click and select "Safely Remove This Device".

Not in 8.10 as far as I can see, I am looking at it now. There does not even seem to be an individual indication on the desktop that a usb stick is in place and mounted. I have managed to find a tray icon which is headed 'devices recently plugged in', the usb device I guess is the 'Volume (fat)'  Whereas in Dolphin I guess the corresponding item is labelled 'disk'.
No unmount or safely remove though.

This is confusing, I hope no real newbies try to use this.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2008-12-16
> **candtalan said:**
> Not in 8.10 as far as I can see, I am looking at it now..

Begging your pardon...

---

### Post by gatinho on 2009-01-27
Would be nice if there is an opportunity to unmount the device in the "devices recently plugged in" plasmoid...

---

### Post by HavocXphere on 2009-01-27
Bottom right in the sys tray is an icon that looks like a LCD screen. Left click on that. Hover mouse over device & then click on the eject icon that appears.:KS

---

