---
title: "Is 14.10 really worth upgrading from 14.04?"
date: 2014-11-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ronmail5456 on 2014-11-26
I'm using Ubuntu 14.04 already few month, and i'm pretty happy with it.

I want to fully clean all my disk in order to install WIN8.1 & Ubuntu in dual boot without any problems, so "on the way" i'm debating if I should stick with 14.04 or move to 14.10.
But I really "recoiled" of 14.10 because of the non-LTS support, and the bad experience I had month ago with 14.10 on live cd (tons of crashes, Chrome didn't work property, wierd issues with the keyborad and etc..)
I read few articles about 14.10, but i still dont understand what 14.10 really changes except few updated softwares & updated kernel (which I already updated manually in 14.04).

Did 14.10 become more stable during the last month? Is it really worth upgrading & losing the LTS support?

---

### Post by a_poenaru on 2014-11-26
I've been using 14.10 ever since it came out, and never had any issue. I can't really comment on the relative stability of the two versions, but I can say I've never had any problems ever since I got 12.10 on my laptop.  I've heard people say you don't gain much by upgrading, but, in my experience, you don't lose anything either. 

I hope this helps.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-11-26
Those of us who want to use Ubuntu have two choices:

1. Install a Long Term Support release and stick with it for at least 2 years and then upgrade - fresh install to the next LTS release. OR
2. Install a Standard (Interim) release and upgrade - fresh install to the next release every 6  - 9 months.

It is a simple choice. We get a new release every 6 months not because there is a lot of new stuff but because the 6 month schedule drives development and stability.

Unity is at version 7 in 14.04 and it is at version 7 in 14.10 and it will be at version 7 in 15.05 and 15.10 and 16.04. There maybe incremental improvements to Unity during this period but the big, big change comes when Ubuntu for Devices is merged with Ubuntu for the Desktop and Ubuntu uses the Mir compositor instead of the Xserver and the Unity 8 user interface instead of Unity 7. Even then, on the desktop Unity 8 will look and act very much like Unity 7.

The main development effort is convergence of Ubuntu for Devices with Ubuntu Desktop and not finding fancy new stuff to put in Ubuntu.

It has been said, that if we want stability we should install the LTS. If we want the bleeding edge then we should install the Ubuntu development release. Standard releases fall in between. 

Regards.

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-11-26
> ronmail5456[INDENT]Is 14.10 really worth upgrading from 14.04?
                          <snip>[/INDENT]
Of course the decision is totally yours. I installed 12.10 and upgraded when appropriate to 13 and then to 14.04 LTS. 
I used my experiences with the upgrades to learn more about Ubuntu and Linux in general.  I've decided to stay with LTS and keep a separate partition for experimentation with new releases and possibly other Distros.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2014-11-26
The scanty 9 months of support for 14.10 has deterred a few...

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-11-26
> Those of us who want to use Ubuntu have two choices:

Actually for the cost of 20 or 25GB of hard disk space and a little time you can have both.

I like to keep the LTS version as my main working install. The I install other versions to either experiment with settings that I am not sure I may want to keep or to see if newer version is really all that different.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-11-26
I'm dual booting Xubuntu 14.04 and 14.10. Both are stable and there is little difference. For now 14.04 remains my main system. It may not remain my main system for the full 2 years until the next LTS.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-11-26
There's no general answer to the question. It depends mostly on the support for your particular hardware. 

If you have no hardware problems in 14.04 there's nothing wrong with using it until support runs out. The main attraction in 14.10 (disregarding hardware) is a significantly improved Libre Office, but using a PPA you can also install it into 14.04.

---

### Post by DogMatix on 2014-11-26
It's a purely personal decision. 

My main work station is now going to always be an LTS release (unless there is an absolute must have addition), for no other reason than the convienience of long term support.

I used to install every new version but every six months was getting a bit much for dist-upgrades, especially as I favour fresh installs.

---

### Post by yancek on 2014-11-26
> But I really "recoiled" of 14.10 because of the non-LTS support, and the bad experience I had month ago with 14.10 on live cd 

Based on the above from your post, I think you've answered your own question.  If you can't think of a reason to change from an LTS there is no reason to.

---

### Post by zircon_34 on 2014-11-26
I was wondering, if I would upgrade my 14.04 LTS to 14.10, is it possible to then switch to the LTS release in 2 years time?

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2014-11-27
> **zircon_34 said:**
> I was wondering, if I would upgrade my 14.04 LTS to 14.10, is it possible to then switch to the LTS release in 2 years time?

No, you would NOT be able to upgrade directly from 14.10 to 16.04. For one thing 14.10 would already have been EOL for 9 months when 16.04 is released. You would have to go 14.10 -> 15.04 -> 15.10 -> 16.04 before each had reached EOL.

But you can directly upgrade from LTS to LTS, eg; 14.04 -> 16.04. That said I always begin an upgrade with the assumption that it may fail. Upgrades are particularly more likely to fail if packages are installed from sources other than the standard repos - a good example would be the upgraded kernel mentioned in the OP.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2014-11-27
Unless you have any compelling reason to upgrade -- new kernel, newer packages, etc, I probably wouldn't.  It just depends what you use your computer for.  Usually the LTS are rock solid, the development versions less so. If you don't mind possible package breakage -- then go ahead.  Usually LTS->LTS upgrades work pretty well in my experience. YMMV

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2014-11-27
Since you already had problems with using a LiveCD of 14.10, there's no reason to suspect in this short a time period that anything major has been done to 14.10 that will correct those problems.

I'm still running 14.04 and, based on all the negative comments I've seen about problems with 14.10, I've decided to "skip" it and wait for the next LTS release.

---

### Post by Rob Sayer on 2014-11-27
The only reason I'll use non lts ubuntu releases now is for hardware support issues requiring a newer kernel.  That was the case with my netbook, and fortunately it works OK in 14.04.

I've kept kubuntu 12.04 on my laptop despite the fact that I've tried KDE 4.10 and it's really nicer than before.  I think 14.04 on that is due soon.

But no, there usually aren't any big advances in technology reflected in most releases.  Unless there is one I'd recommend the lts version.

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2014-11-27
> **ronmail5456 said:**
> 

Did 14.10 become more stable during the last month? Is it really worth upgrading & losing the LTS support?


If you are satisfied with 14.04, why not stay with that release until you have a reason to change?

I've found 14.10 to be a useful, if undramatic, upgrade. Other than a Compiz bug that's been around in Unity for a long time, I haven't had any issues with either release. 

Since you had some problems with that 14.10 live image, and *if* it wasn't a pre-release mage, then you might want to stay on 14.04. In any case, I think it's worth trying again. (Not everything can be successfully installed to a live session; perhaps that was the issue with Chrome?)

However, a new physical install takes only several minutes. 

I see an LTS as an advantage if I don't want to do a new install or a release upgrade for a few years. One potential downside: Newer apps and new releases of existing apps may not work, or work well, on an LTS once its begins to show some age.

---

### Post by spikeb on 2014-11-28
no, it's not worth it. it's a non-LTS release with nothing new in it.

---

