---
title: "How to handle this Nvidia error message????"
date: 2009-04-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lentomies on 2009-04-05
Hello,

I just installed EnvyNG and now have the NVIDIA X server settings found under System---> Administration.

But when I open this it reports an error message which I have no idea as to how to handle. Please look at the attached picture.

Maybe someone can tell me what to do???

Currently, it appears that my 8.04 already knows I have a Nvidia graphics card as it is found under restricted drivers. I'd like to note that this appeared before I installed EnyyNG. I attached a pic of this too.

Thanks!

---

### Post by nandemonai on 2009-04-06
> **lentomies said:**
> Hello,

I just installed EnvyNG and now have the NVIDIA X server settings found under System---> Administration.

But when I open this it reports an error message which I have no idea as to how to handle. Please look at the attached picture.

Maybe someone can tell me what to do???

Currently, it appears that my 8.04 already knows I have a Nvidia graphics card as it is found under restricted drivers. I'd like to note that this appeared before I installed EnyyNG. I attached a pic of this too.

Thanks!

I *think* it has to do with the fact you're using the legacy drivers. What card?

---

### Post by freak42 on 2009-04-06
try uninstalling-reinstalling the restricted driver.. it might just reconfigure your xorg

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2009-04-06
If those steps don't work, try removing it and reinstalling it via Synaptic. The package is called nvidia-glx.
 
If that doesn't work, then do this:
 
Press Ctrl+Alt+F1
Ths should give you a login screen. Login.
Type 
 
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```
 
```
nvidia-xconfig
```
 
```
 
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

```
 
 
 
.

---

### Post by lentomies on 2009-04-06
Thanks Everyone!

I followed all the instructions offered precisely And still I get the same error message.

I got no clue why this is happening.

Any suggestions.

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2009-04-06
How did you uninstall/reinstall your drivers? Through EnvyNG?

---

### Post by lentomies on 2009-04-06
No. I used the instructions others provided found above ^  ...

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-04-06
Have you rebooted?

---

### Post by lentomies on 2009-04-06
Sure did.

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2009-04-06
I think this EnvyNG must be stopping the driver from being recognised. Get rid of the envy and reinstall the nvidia-glx from Synaptic..
 
 
.

---

### Post by suomalainen on 2009-04-06
I did that already. Envy was already wiped out.

---

### Post by freak42 on 2009-04-06
can you post the output of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file here?

---

### Post by lentomies on 2009-04-06
Here You go........

Please note my monitor is LG and I need 1440X900. Thanks

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option		"UseEdidFreqs"	"True"
	Option		"AllowGLXWithComposite"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-04-06
Are you running the Nvidia settings program as root?

---

### Post by lentomies on 2009-04-06
I don't know? Am I? How do you do that????

Thanks 

Ann

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-04-06
```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by lentomies on 2009-04-06
oldos2er,

I ran the command you asked me to run.

The attached pic say's it all....

Anyone else have any ideas?????????????

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-04-06
Have you tried booting into recovery mode and running 'xfix'?

---

### Post by lentomies on 2009-04-07
Xfix? Is something broken? if so what is it?

---

