---
title: "11.10/64-bit/fresh install/no Gnome &quot;classic&quot;"
date: 2012-03-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-03-04
I built a new system about a week ago and installed 11.10 64-bit to it.  I've noticed when I log on the only options are for logon are unity and unity 2-d.  It's been a while, and my memory being what it's not, I'm not sure if I did anything on my "old" PC when I installed 11.10 64-bit on it, but on it I have options other than just these 2.

So, outside of CharlesA's sticky on getting back the old Gnome, was there something I'm forgetting for Gnome and Gnome with no effects?

I feel stupid - but my memory just isn't the best (the 60's and 70's don't you know ;) ).

Thanks in advance!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by jacob.david on 2012-03-04
I think it is normal. With Ubuntu 11.04 onwards unity is the default desktop that will be available. You will have to manually install gnome or anything else that you want.

---

### Post by HeroOfCanton on 2012-03-04
That's typical with 11.10. You can add the option with

```
sudo apt-get install gnome-shell
```

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-03-04
Yep - know about gnome shell - see another of my posts for a tool I'm working on for it.  I still thought, and maybe it was 11.04 and went away in 11.10, that you had 4 choices for logon - ubuntu/ubuntu 2d/gnome classic/gnome no effects.

I've been doing some testing and wanted to see if running with the "old" Gnome desktop would still be ok, and that's why I was looking at the login screen again.

Since it doesn't seem to be a default delivery in 11.10, I'll just move on.  I know I can install the other d.e.'s but was just hoping they were already there.

Thanks!

Dave ;)

---

