---
title: "9.04 flock browser"
date: 2009-08-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cristalshield on 2009-08-21
hi everyone i got install flock browser, and i got a problem it keeps me asking for flash player plugin, i have download it several times and it keeps asking for missing pluging i dont know what to do or how to get it working on flock.:KS

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-08-21
[http://helpforlinux.blogspot.com/2008/12/get-flash-working-in-flock-browser-in.html](http://helpforlinux.blogspot.com/2008/12/get-flash-working-in-flock-browser-in.html)

---

### Post by cristalshield on 2009-08-21
i cant do it that way ubuntu doesnt let me copy the files from those directories, this is what was in the link:

[FONT=verdana]Many readers complained yesterday that Flock browser I reviewed about yesterday [/FONT][FONT=verdana]had one major problem - It cannot play flash content. I too faced the same problem and finally here is the solution:[/FONT]
[FONT=verdana]Fire up the terminal and paste this in it:[/FONT]
[FONT=trebuchet ms]**sudo nautilus**[/FONT]

[FONT=Verdana]Navigate to the folder:[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana]**[FONT=&quot]usr/lib/firefox/plugins[/FONT]** and copy the only file present there 'flashplugin-alternative.so' [/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana]to this folder:[/FONT]
[FONT=&quot]**/usr/share/flock/plugins/**[/FONT]
Restart Flock and you will have flash working.

i cant copy the file.

---

### Post by achase79 on 2009-08-21
are you sure you used the command "sudo nautilus"? After running that command you should be able to navigate to and copy anything in that window.

---

### Post by pedro3005 on 2009-08-21
Open up the terminal and run 'sudo cp /[FONT=Verdana][FONT=&quot]usr/lib/firefox/plugins/[/FONT][/FONT][FONT=Verdana]flashplugin-alternative.so [/FONT][FONT=&quot]/usr/share/flock/plugins/' (without quotes). It should work :)
And BTW it should be 'gksu nautilus'.
EDIT: As achase79 recommended, using cp instead 
[/FONT]

---

### Post by achase79 on 2009-08-21
you might also try ```
sudo cp /usr/lib/firefox/plugins/flashplugin-alternative.so /usr/share/flock/plugins
```

---

### Post by cristalshield on 2009-08-21
thx you all i tried this one it works the file is copied
 'sudo mv /[FONT=Verdana][FONT=&quot]usr/lib/firefox/plugins/[/FONT][/FONT][FONT=Verdana]flashplugin-alternative.so [/FONT][FONT=&quot]/usr/share/flock/plugins/' 

but there still a problem on facebook game, theres one named farmville that i hasnt run yet

in adition i can see now the youtuube videos and all other webs based in flash thx you all

is there any way i fix the problem with this facebook game??:KS
[/FONT]

---

### Post by cristalshield on 2009-08-21
if is possible can you help me

---

### Post by achase79 on 2009-08-26
When you go into flock type this ```
about:plugins
``` in the address bar.

Find the flash plugin on the page and post the version number.  You may just have the wrong version of the flash plugin.

---

### Post by cristalshield on 2009-08-28
[B]this is what i got:KS
[/B]

**Shockwave Flash**

 File name:  libswfdecmozilla.so Shockwave Flash 9.0 r999   MIME Type Description Suffixes Enabled    application/x-shockwave-flash Adobe Flash movie swf Yes   application/futuresplash FutureSplash movie spl Yes

---

### Post by cristalshield on 2009-08-28
:ks

---

### Post by cristalshield on 2009-08-28
hey people thx you for your attetion i just want to let you know that i finally got it working, flash player in firefox and flock too, i just find out that i had swfdec install at the same time, so i just use synaptic to remove it at that was all:KS:)

thx you, just keep on helping people like me. thanks a lot everyone

---

