---
title: "11.04 wi fi"
date: 2011-06-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lizandeen on 2011-06-28
I've just inatalled 11.04 on my only working computer with an internet connection and cannot get the Wifi working. Is there a way to fix this?

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-06-28
Go to Additional Drivers and see if there is one available for download. You will have to be hard wired to the net though.

---

### Post by benito65 on 2011-06-28
I am brand new to but also had a similar issue with my HP amd 64 computer.  IF the first suggestion doesn't work try looking at this page.  I had to install these drivers to get my wireless to work if you have a broadcom wireless built in 

[http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Drivers/b43](http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Drivers/b43)

Good luck

---

### Post by zsuerdieck on 2011-06-28
I'm new to Ubuntu and am still learning, but I had a similar issue with my Dell Inspiron 17R. After installing, the Broadcom wireless driver was activated by default and my wireless was not working. I went to Additional Drivers and removed it. After removing and restarting, my wireless worked.

---

### Post by josephmills on 2011-06-28
hi there guys could you please open your terminal (ctrl+alt+t) then put in ```
lspci -nn
``` then ```
rfkill list all 
```then ```
lsmod
``` and paste it all here thanks

---

### Post by lizandeen on 2011-07-01
I'm sorry, but in my case hard wiring is not an option, can use my phone but not my pc with wifi. Its really annoying not to be able to get on line. I love the operating system but surely by this time stuff like wifi connectivity should be built in, for gods sake even windows has this sorted!! LOL.!!!

Any other suggestions??

---

### Post by ClientAlive on 2011-07-01
> **benito65 said:**
> . . . if you have a broadcom wireless built in 

[http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Drivers/b43](http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Drivers/b43)

Good luck


STuPid Broadcomm. Me too. I have the bcm 4318 rev. 2 (Air Force One). OOhhh! Air Force Oneee! Sounds cool but that's about it.

That was just a little humor; but, seriously though, there's way's of dealing with things like this - bcm or not. 

:guitar:

---

### Post by ClientAlive on 2011-07-01
> **lizandeen said:**
> I'm sorry, but in my case hard wiring is not an option, can use my phone but not my pc with wifi. Its really annoying not to be able to get on line. I love the operating system but surely by this time stuff like wifi connectivity should be built in, for gods sake even windows has this sorted!! LOL.!!!

Any other suggestions??


Chances are you'll have to get on the internet somehow to fix it. There's some diagnostic things we can help you with (like looking at the results of lspci and others and helping to interpret it) but eventually you many need to get some file or package onto the computer in order to fix the problem.

Really, the best way we can help is if we see the output of some of these things here on the forum. Without it, its kinda tough to troubleshoot the issue.

The first one we need to see is lspci it's a long long list of stuff so first try:

```

lspci | grep Network

```

If that doesn't give you anything, for some reason, then do:

```

lspci

```

Here's what the output from mine looks like:

```

lspci | grep Network
05:02.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)

```

See? It's the bcm I mentioned.

After that we could really use the output from:

```

rfkill list

```

That's a lower case L by the way.

Here is what mine looks like right now (my wireless is working fine).

```

rfkill list
0: phy0: Wireless LAN
	Soft blocked: no
	Hard blocked: no

```
-----------------------

Edit:

By the way. One alternative way to show us this output is to take a picture of it and put the picture as an attachment to your post. If you don't have an internet connection on that machine it may be you only alternative.

---

