---
title: "11.04 : No battery applet loaded during startup"
date: 2011-05-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Redblade20XX on 2011-05-29
Hey everyone,

Installed 11.04 for kubuntu on my dm1z  laptop and have a slight problem. During start up, kubuntu doesn't load a battery applet in the bottom right corner of the screen. So I don't know which power profile is currently used or the battery level when using one. Does anyone know of a fix? Thanks for any responses!

- Red

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-29
> **Redblade20XX said:**
> Hey everyone,

Installed 11.04 for kubuntu on my dm1z  laptop and have a slight problem. During start up, kubuntu doesn't load a battery applet in the bottom right corner of the screen. So I don't know which power profile is currently used or the battery level when using one. Does anyone know of a fix? Thanks for any responses!

- RedHi, go to the lower right coner just past the clock click on panel tool box the click on add widget, the add battery sensor.

---

### Post by Redblade20XX on 2011-05-30
> **wildmanne39 said:**
> Hi, go to the lower right coner just past the clock click on panel tool box the click on add widget, the add battery sensor.

Thanks for the response! Maybe I should've been more clearer but it was the battery applet in the system tray. Anyways, I got it back by right clicking the system tray, clicking on system tray settings and enabling the battery applet. :p
Thanks again wildmanne39, you set me on track =D>

Thread solved!

-Red

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-30
> **Redblade20XX said:**
> Thanks for the response! Maybe I should've been more clearer but it was the battery applet in the system tray. Anyways, I got it back by right clicking the system tray, clicking on system tray settings and enabling the battery applet. :p
Thanks again wildmanne39, you set me on track =D>

Thread solved!

-RedHi, your welcome.

---

