---
title: "12.04 removed latest linux kernel, image and header files"
date: 2013-05-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Michael Dooley on 2013-05-02
I installed the latest linux kernel, header and image files (maybe 3.8.16?) and rebooted into 12.04 classic gnome. Wireless didn't work so I decided at that point to just remove those files and return to the previous state. Unfortunately, I should have reinstalled the earlier linux kernel, header and image files (maybe just the image file?) so as to be able to successfully reboot my system. Now I'm unable to boot into 12.04, either straight or recovery. Other systems boot just fine on this HD but not 12.04. Have I completely bolixed my 12.04 system? Is there a way to install the needed files without directly booting into the system? I suspect not but thought I'd ask here before I complicate matters further.

Thanks for any assistance...  

I know just enough to screw it up.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-05-02
It should be possible by chrooting from a live CD / USB (or, presumably, from one of your other working systems) - see 

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/28099/how-to-restore-a-system-after-accidentally-removing-all-kernels](http://askubuntu.com/questions/28099/how-to-restore-a-system-after-accidentally-removing-all-kernels)

---

### Post by Michael Dooley on 2013-05-02
I'm going to see what I can do with the remaining kernels, headers and image files. First I'll try an on the fly edit of my customized grub to see if any old stuff will let me boot. I'll post back with an update.

Thanks steeldriver.

---

### Post by Michael Dooley on 2013-05-03
Editing my customized grub did the trick - I'm now back in business with classic 12.04 up and running again.

Here is what I had to work with, which I discovered using a 10.04 partition -

I still had the files installed that I needed, 3.2.0-35-generic-pae headers, kernel and image. I found them in the filesystem under the /boot directory.

```
menuentry "Precise 12.04 LTS (on /dev/sda8)" {
    set root=(hd0,8)
        linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda8 ro quiet splash
        initrd /initrd.img
} 
```
I did the following edit when booting by pressing 'e' to edit my Precise boot script:

```
menuentry "Precise 12.04 LTS (on /dev/sda8)" {
    set root=(hd0,8)
        linux /boot/vmlinuz-3.2.0-35-generic-pae root=/dev/sda8 ro quiet splash
        initrd /boot/initrd.img-3.2.0-35-generic-pae
}
```
You can see that I added the path and the specific kernel to use in booting. I then booted into 12.04 and used synaptic to reinstall the 3.2.0-35-generic-pae kernel, headers and image file. I then successfully rebooted without an edit of the custom (and static) grub. For details of the custom grub, see [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MaintenanceFreeCustomGrub2Screen](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MaintenanceFreeCustomGrub2Screen)

Thanks for pointing the way steeldriver.

---

