---
title: "The Cyborg R.A.T. 3 Mouse Issue"
date: 2011-03-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by HE_Serenade on 2011-03-02
Hello Ubuntu Community!

I've been using Ubuntu for a while now and this is the weirdest thing that ever happened to me!

Last week I bought this "Cyborg R.A.T 3" mouse... by the way, It's awesome!... I use it to play online using Windows 7 which i have in a 500GB partition of my HD... The other half works with Ubuntu 10.04 (lucid). 

Well, when i entered into Ubuntu's partition, I discovered that this great mouse didn't work properly. As always in this cases i went online to find the solution, and in fact i did...

here: "https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-mouse/+bug/615892"  I found out that i needed to add some lines into "xorg.conf" (easy task i said!)

the lines were these: 

```
Section "InputClass"
  Identifier "Mouse Remap"
  MatchProduct "Saitek Cyborg R.A.T.3 Mouse"
  MatchDevicePath "/dev/input/event*"
  Option "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0"
EndSection   
```I pasted them at the bottom of my xorg.conf file and saved.

Now comes the problem!..............

When I restarted, a floating window over a black background prayed:

"Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode
the following error was encountered. 
You may need to update your configuration to solve this

(EE) problem parsing the config file
(EE) error parsing the config file"

If you're familiar with this failure you know what came next.

The thing is that THAT code lines (the mouse ones) Really solved the problem with the mouse!... it worked like a charm! but now my resolution was fked up! :( 

Well... I decided to go to "NVIDIA X Server Settings" and it told me:

"You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver.  Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server."

So I went root and typed: "nvidia-xconfig" and i got this message:

```
Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".

PARSE ERROR: Parse error on line 58 of section InputClass in file
             /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
             "InputClass" is not a valid section name.

Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

```
This changed my xorg.conf to say this:


```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Thu Apr 22 11:44:23 PDT 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```And every time I add the "InputClass" lines it's the same. :(

I've tried to modify the "InputDevice" "mouse0" lines adding the "Option "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0" Thingy and it worked as before... the mouse worked but the Graphics mode was low...again... and I got a message like:

```
PARSE ERROR: Parse error on line (I dunno which) of section InputClass in file
             /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
             "Option" is not a valid section name.

Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

```
I really don't know what to do! If anyone knows how to make this lines work without changin to Low-Graphics or has another solution, I'd really appreciate it! :D

Thanks for your time!



HE_Serenade

---

### Post by HE_Serenade on 2011-03-03
nobody? :(

---

### Post by HE_Serenade on 2011-03-03
All right! let's see.... URGENTLY NEED HELP!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

I've messed it up REALLY aweful this time!

I Dunno if this reply will be read so i'll probably start a new post too... but I wanna try to see this way first! :P

Ok... Trying to set this DAMN mouse into ubuntu I tried to do something for my own... after reading A LOT of forums and searching through Google, I decided to make modifications inside a folder called "/usr/lib/X11/xorg.conf.d" <------ this xorg is a FOLDER, not a gedit file (at least I see it like this) 

Anyways, this folder contains some gedit files... ".conf" files that seemed to be X sections to make peripherals (input thingys) work. so I ran a ```
gksu gedit /usr/lib/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-mouse.conf
``` Code. and pasted this:

Section "InputClass"   
          Identifier "Mouse Remap"   
          MatchProduct "Saitek Cyborg R.A.T.3 Mouse"   
          MatchDevicePath "/dev/input/event*"   
          Option "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0" 
EndSection

inside it and saved.

I decided to restart my PC to see what happens... and SHT HAPPENS! :'( 

It doesn't log into ubuntu... it freezes in the purple ubuntu loader!... I tried to acces a !recovery mode" partition with GRUB and it loads A LOT of info to conclude after a while with:

"Gave up waiting for a root device" (this surrounded by a lot of other info)

and it finishes with:

(initramfs) <----- here I can type stuff but its not a "terminal"

So the thing is.... I need your help to either access to my folders to delete that .conf file I created or just log into ubuntu normaly to do the same. I'm sure tha'ts the file that's messing all up so I just need to rm i.

Any suggestions???

Thanx anyways....
 


....and forgive my stupidity!

---

### Post by HE_Serenade on 2011-03-04
Ok, I solved that last problem... Thanx to davidmohammed who suggested me the possibility of accesisng my HD through the live CD (doh!) 

So now I'm on again to make this mouse work! 

Any of you know the diference between:

/etc/X11/xorg.conf  and  /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d????

Ive seen some posts that pray the .d works in Lucid... is this true????

---

### Post by HE_Serenade on 2011-03-04
OK! After all these days screwing my brains to get a solution, I finally made my mouse work! (alright!:D)

How i did it???  well I found a forum that showed me this code:

```
cat /proc/bus/input/devices
```

With it I was able to "see" my mouse and create my own personalized Xorg Section which is:

```
Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "evdev"
    Option         "Name" "Saitek Cyborg R.A.T.3 Mouse"
    Option         "Vendor" "06a3"
    Option         "Product" "0ccc"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/event4"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "Buttons" "7"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0"
    Option         "Resolution" "3200"
EndSection
```

A lot of hours spent, a couple of sleepless nights and a damn scary situation but I finally have one of the best gaming mouses in the world working on Ubuntu!

Thank you all, cause, eventhough nobody gave me a solution, it was a collage of ubuntu forums which helped me accomplish this!

---

### Post by Dohee on 2011-03-28
Hi I'm very new to ubuntu, could you specify exactly what you did to fix it? I'm not sure which of these steps you've gone back and removed. Which files did you edit?

---

### Post by HE_Serenade on 2011-03-29
Hello Dohee... 

Are you having the same problem???

OK lets see... 

You need to edit your "xorg.conf" file... if you don't know where it is, you can edit it using a terminal typing:

```

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```(Type your password when asked)

Once you are in there (inside the xorg.conf), it is probable that you find it empty.... if not, don't worry, it will work the same! :D

Ok, so there is where you have to paste the Input I created:

```
Section "InputDevice"
           # generated from default
           Identifier     "Mouse0"
           Driver         "evdev"
           Option         "Name" "Saitek Cyborg R.A.T.3 Mouse"
           Option         "Vendor" "06a3"
           Option         "Product" "0ccc"
           Option         "Protocol" "auto"
           Option         "Device" "/dev/input/event4"
           Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
           Option         "Buttons" "7"
           Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
           Option         "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0"
           Option         "Resolution" "3200"
EndSection
```Then you save it and restart... and that should be it! :D

Note that this Input is for " R.A.T.3 Mouse" only.... not quite sure if it works with another cyborg R.A.T. model.... If you have any problems, don't doubt asking!


Good luck!

---

### Post by pawelkazik on 2011-09-13
Hi, i bought the same mouse rat3. Mouse work but not quite good. I paste code in xorg like you give, and logout to restart X serwer. Huray mouse work perfect, next i turn off PC and... Same situation mouse resolution 800, wrong button setings. You have any idea what coudl help me??
My ubuntu is 10.10 x64, and im using Radeon HD graphic.


sry for my English

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-09-13
HE_Serenade:  I don't know if you were warned during this thread in March, but there are many references to some words in your posts that are not allowed on the forum.  It doesn't have to be the entire word - references that are abbreviations, a character or two dropped, "sounds like", etc., are not allowed either.  In the future please refrain from any of this no matter how frustrated you are.  Since this thread is old, I can't really report you for the problem, but if it reoccurs I will.

---

### Post by pawelkazik on 2011-09-13
sorry didnt know. And coudl someone please help me?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-09-14
The remarks were directed to the original poster, not towards you.

Since this thread is already marked as solved, you would be better off opening your own thread on this topic.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by HE_Serenade on 2011-09-27
Hey pawelkazik! sorry for the delay.... been kinda busy lately!... dunno  if you've already fixed your issue, but I'll try to help you anyways...  you say that after restart, the mouse acts weird again right???? Is  "xorg.conf" altered in any way????? I mean... does it still have the  mouse Section or something is different? 



And answering to anewguy's remark... well... what can I say... sorry... won't happen again... I think the word used was "dam" but plus the "n" Sorry about that, but... well... I'm Spanish and in my language that's not such a hard word, but if Ubuntu Forums say I shouldn't use it, then I won't, sorry again for it, wasn't aware of this policy.

---

### Post by Torquadon on 2011-11-14
This is interesting. When i put:

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "evdev"
    Option         "Name" "Saitek Cyborg R.A.T.3 Mouse"
    Option         "Vendor" "06a3"
    Option         "Product" "0ccc"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/event5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "Buttons" "7"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0"
    Option         "Resolution" "3200"
EndSection

log out, log in, everything is fine. After restart it's wrong again. But if I log out and log in again it works just fine... Any ideas?

---

### Post by sethdaniel2011 on 2011-11-18
> **Torquadon said:**
> This is interesting. When i put:

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "evdev"
    Option         "Name" "Saitek Cyborg R.A.T.3 Mouse"
    Option         "Vendor" "06a3"
    Option         "Product" "0ccc"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/event5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "Buttons" "7"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0"
    Option         "Resolution" "3200"
EndSection

log out, log in, everything is fine. After restart it's wrong again. But if I log out and log in again it works just fine... Any ideas?


I have this exact same problem using ubuntu 11.04.  If I log out and in the mouse works fine.  But the first time I log in after reboot I can click on the desktop until I go to launch a program.  After I launch the first program the mouse stops working.  Then I log out and log back in and it works fine.  Anyone have a solution to this?

---

### Post by elnetotaca on 2012-03-23
on the terminal;
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf


then paste this at the end;


# RAT3 mouse
Section "InputClass"
  Identifier "Mouse Remap"
  MatchProduct "Saitek Cyborg R.A.T.3 Mouse"
  MatchDevicePath "/dev/input/event*"
  Option "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 4 5 0 0 8 9 0 0 0 13 14"
EndSection




and there you go!
It only works for the rat 3

---

### Post by vralfy on 2012-08-12
Oh thanks HE_Serenade for pointing me to the Resolution Option. My Cyborg Rat 7 always jumped to the left upper corner on several mouse pads, unti i added this option to my config. Now everything works fine.

---

