---
title: "12.04 Live CD To USB Flash"
date: 2012-06-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jocklad on 2012-06-30
I would like to copy Cd to flash USB stick.

Is there any easy way of doing this....?.

USB stick is 8G,is that enough...?.

Many thanks ,

Jocklad

---

### Post by firekage on 2012-06-30
There is software for this in ubuntu. It is called something like assistant of startup disk or startup disk (sorry, i use polish version so it is as close as i could translate it into english).

I used it for 4GB usb flash stick and it works. There are other programs for this like suggesterd here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick/](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick/)

---

### Post by _0R10N on 2012-06-30
8Gbs is more than enough. You could copy & paste all of the files contained in the CD, but you wouldn't be able to boot from it, since it needs some specific files.

You can try creating an .ISO file from your CD and then make your USB flash bootable using the startup disk creator utility bundled with your Ubuntu.

> **Jocklad said:**
> I would like to copy Cd to flash USB stick.

Is there any easy way of doing this....?.

USB stick is 8G,is that enough...?.

Many thanks ,

Jocklad

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-06-30
8gb is enough to even allow for persistence on the flash.  Use startup disk creator or unetbootin.

---

### Post by ubudog on 2012-06-30
> **anewguy said:**
> 8gb is enough to even allow for persistence on the flash.  Use startup disk creator or unetbootin.

+1

---

### Post by Jocklad on 2012-07-02
:guitar:Done successfully with  unetbootin.

Many thanks to you all.

Jocklad ):P

---

