---
title: "12.04 Brother printer looks good - no print"
date: 2013-06-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by freebird54 on 2013-06-22
Frustration has set in - everything I know about printing (which is limited and probably out of date) says it SHOULD be working - but no print has resulted.  Trying to print test pages appears to send the job to the queue, and increments the job number, but nothing appears IN the queue - or prints.

When checking settings, all appears OK (enabled, shared etc) - no restrictions on users - URI matches reality as far as I can tell.  Driver obtained from Brother support was installed by their instructions, but does NOT appear to be associated correctly with the printer.  A portion of their instructions involved a 'restart' command that could not be executed.

Anyone with ideas?  After this long I hate to be an 'Absolute Beginner' again...  :)

---

### Post by Merrattic on 2013-06-22
Any chance of some details on the printer, model, drivers used, how connected to PC, running 32 or 64 bit version?

Use any any drivers from Synaptic ?

Normally all works OOTB apart from scanners.....

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2013-06-22
The printer is a Brother DCP-7060d (cheap multi-function) - has only an USB connection.  Tried normal 'install' and CUPS picked a '7045N BR Script 3' driver but no results (as described).  Tried any number of sources for ideas, and discovered the 'official' driver at the Brother support site - and tried their instructions for install - with no apparent success (still not recognized as the driver).

The weird thing to me is that it APPEARS to be functioning - but nothing seems to go through the queue.  I have access to Win7 (shudder) laptop... maybe I should just try to get it working there and network to it from everything else...(sigh)

Thanks for any ideas on alternatives though!

---

### Post by Merrattic on 2013-06-22
I am sure you have but, have you run through all of this:

LPR driver:

[http://welcome.solutions.brother.com/bsc/public_s/id/linux/en/instruction_prn3.html](http://welcome.solutions.brother.com/bsc/public_s/id/linux/en/instruction_prn3.html)

and this:

CUPSWrapper

[http://welcome.solutions.brother.com/bsc/public_s/id/linux/en/instruction_prn1a.html](http://welcome.solutions.brother.com/bsc/public_s/id/linux/en/instruction_prn1a.html)

You may need to uninstall the repository drivers and have another go with the Brother ones?

Looking on [http://www.openprinting.org/printers](http://www.openprinting.org/printers)

The DCP-7060D doesn't seem to be there yet ?

Also worth checking out: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=590793](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=590793)

---

### Post by gifford on 2013-06-22
Did you do the pre-required steps as listed on the Brother site? Also, as in previous post, are you running 32 or 64 bit Ubuntu?
This is one: **mkdir /var/spool/lpd**

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2013-06-23
Sorry - should have specified 32 bit (waiting for newer machine before switching to 64) - but I tried those instructions anyway without affecting results.  One thing it can't find is a restart command in init.d  ...

Trying a couple of more things, then going to hook it up through Mr. Gates favourite mistake - (it isn't as if the Win-top has to see the internet or anything dangerous).

Thanks again - this is what you get when you buy by price only (under $100) for a laser with copy and scan  :)

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2013-06-23
Thanks Merrattic - the final link (to the 'Gutsy'-based How-To) got me on the right track, and ALL (include the brscan4 scanner functions) appear to be running fine.  Amazing how an 'oldie but goodie' can hang on that long... or is it that I'm the oldie? Somehow it seemed simpler when you could safely edit a conf file for yourself!

Thanks for your help/pointers - now I just have to get it accessible from local wifi tablets (sister etc) and every one will be happy  :)

---

### Post by Merrattic on 2013-06-24
:)

---

### Post by chapmanbright on 2014-03-01
i too have exactlythe same problem ...it says its printing, and then its printed... and nothing!! But i cant seem to be able to install $ ia32-libs or[B]lib32stdc++
it says it cant find the order.... ive also desinstalled and installed again with synaptic....any suggestiones?[/B]

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2014-03-01
Don't (unfortunately) have time to look at anything right now (on a mission to Wal-Mart) but one thing I discovered was holding me back...
After everything SHOULD have been right, and no results, I found that the silly thing was not being RECOGNIZED.  Just unplug the USB - than plug it back in and it will recheck and refind the printer - and it all suddenly works!

Hope that tip (!) helps you too - 'cos it sure is nice to print with ease from anywhere/anything in the house!

---

### Post by BadMichael on 2014-03-01
FWIW: My Brother printer was shooting blanks until I installed the Foomatic/hpijs-pcl5e driver. HPIJS is a separate install. Also, I had no luck with the official Brother drivers: the page alignment was off.

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2014-03-01
Sorry - the situation seems pretty different with me.  The official Brother drivers have been perfect, and even their script for installing them worked! (this time).  Can't do much for you then, I guess, except to make sure you were grabbing the right print/scanner drivers etc off the solutions site...

Sorry 'bout that - hope you find some help/fixes soon!

---

