---
title: "10.01 dual bt  xp home   bios prob"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by telekaster on 2010-05-05
won't boot to selection screen... freezes  w/"ahci bios not installed". been workinng good for 2 days      now this...do  I need to reinstall xp????  hellllllp.

thanks
telekaster

---

### Post by kaldor on 2010-05-05
Just to be sure, try popping in a LiveCD of Ubuntu.

Go to your Filesystem and see if you can find the Windows portion of your hard drive. If you still see all your Windows files etc, it's a problem with the BIOS and nothing to worry (too much) about.

---

### Post by madjr on 2010-05-05
you or someone else did or installed anything ?

---

### Post by telekaster on 2010-05-05
Thanks for the replies...I'm an extreme noob...is the live CD just the install disk?  and yes I installed audacity,Ardour,jack.  why would my bios suddenly go away and how di I recover it. while im waiting i'll research the live cd thing

thanks again

telekaster

---

### Post by telekaster on 2010-05-05
ubuntu will not boot from my install disk. I get the same result when i turn on the computer with the cd in the frive and set to boot from cd..????

---

### Post by telekaster on 2010-05-06
Well I went into bios and restored to original settings. Then I opened up the box and made sure all connections are good...booted up and all is well and I have no idea why it's working now. Also I have XP on one hard drive and Ubuntu on a completely different hard drive one is ide and one is sata if that makes a difference. anyway thanks for the help.

telekaster

---

