---
title: "8.04 getting rid of extra header files"
date: 2009-01-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by aszxcv on 2009-01-25
the problem is i have a dual boot vista and ubuntu 
but i keep getting extra header files after several updates so i have like 4 or so version of generic header and recover header for ubuntu as i boot into it. i know i only need one the latest one so my question is how can i get rid of the older version but keep the latest generic and recover header

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-01-25
You can open Synaptic package manager, search for linux-headers and uninstall the all but  the current version.
That said, you don't really get to choose the headers at boot. I suspect that by headers you mean kernels, and if that's the case, you'll need to search for the linux-image and remove all but the current version.

---

### Post by aszxcv on 2009-01-25
yeah thats probably it then

whatever it is at boot 

i have too many of them

how do i search for the linux-image and remove all but the current version?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-01-25
System->Admin->Synaptic,
search for linux-image by typing 'linux-image' without quotes.

Every linux-mage package has a version. For example, linux-image-2.6.27-9-generic is the current kernel for Intrepid, as far as I am aware. If you use Hardy, the numbering will be something like 2.6.24-something. Scroll through the packages and take a note on what kernel versions are installed, make sure not to remove the latest one.

---

### Post by aszxcv on 2009-01-25
thanks for the help

i got rid of them

---

