---
title: "13.10: Extremely glitchy graphics in [Install] and [Live] modes"
date: 2014-03-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ULAMSS5 on 2014-03-08
Yesterday I tried to download and install Ubuntu 13.10. Suspecting unstable direct downloads, I have used torrents, md5, and check disk functions to ensure a proper download and burn-in(and even uNetBootin for USB attempts)

However, I always end up with extremely glitchy graphics, as seen in the attachments.

The one with one big purple box with black edges are what I see if I attempt to directly install.

The other 2 are in Live environments; system ui elements seem to be working perfectly, but the desktop and any form of windows opened will be messed up. (Includes Power menu and Wifi menu, and "Install Ubuntu" window)

Few hours prior to this, I was successfully using an old 12.04 live environment with no problems.

Specs: MSI z77a-GD65, Intel i5-3570k, 2x AMD HD 7850 2GB in xfire, 2x4 GB DDr3 Corsair Vengeance LP 1.35v memory 

Any assistance would be greatly appreciated

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-03-17
You need drivers for that cards. Maybe this helps - [http://askubuntu.com/questions/283345/how-to-install-drivers-for-amd-radeon-hd-7850](http://askubuntu.com/questions/283345/how-to-install-drivers-for-amd-radeon-hd-7850) -. Make sure you adapt the installation part according to the file name you downloaded from AMD.

You might also need to select a special mode for running the live session / installation like forcing a generic driver that hopefully will give a usable workspace.

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2014-03-17
This ([http://askubuntu.com/questions/162075/my-computer-boots-to-a-black-screen-what-options-do-i-have-to-fix-it/162076#162076](http://askubuntu.com/questions/162075/my-computer-boots-to-a-black-screen-what-options-do-i-have-to-fix-it/162076#162076)) might help, too, by getting you a usable display for the install, afterwhich you deal with the driver issue. (Use "nomodeset" as outlined there until you install the driver, hopefully via "Additional Drivers".)

---

### Post by ULAMSS5 on 2014-03-17
Hi, thank you both very much for the answers.

However, I am not very clear on the process.

Vladlenin5000:

1. How do I download and run the driver without relying on the GUI/browser within ubuntu to download the drivers?

2. How do I select a "special mode"/forcing a generic driver?

buzzingrobot:

In the link provided, I never get the screen in the first screenshot at all. Either I try to install, leading to the unusable black screen with purple rectangles, or "try without installing", and enter the unusable workspace immediately. I can't find the screen with the 2 white glowing icons at the bottom to press "down".

I have tried editting params, adding "nomodeset" to the end and booting from there; I get the same graphical glitches.

---

### Post by ULAMSS5 on 2014-03-20
/bump/

Oh and, how do I get the text installer? I checked all over the "Downloads" directories. Or has that been removed for more recent versions?

---

