---
title: ".oft/.bin"
date: 2010-06-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Georgia boy on 2010-06-19
Hi. I received an email that has a document attached. It's in an .oft extension. Tried to open, but only got this description then saying:
You have chosen to open(file name) which is a:Bin file from: mailbox:// would you like to save this file?" Gives you the choice of canceling or saving. I saved to documents folder but can't seem to find anything to open this. I'm using Thunderbird for emails.  I tried OOo writer and a couple others listed to choose from.
Any ideas?

Thanks

Tom

---

### Post by Dn4mycrownj on 2010-06-20
is the .oft a MS office file.  I think that's what it is.  If so would open office open it.

---

### Post by Georgia boy on 2010-06-20
Tried to open in Open Office, but just won't open. Can't figure out why it don't. I don't have a setup with MS on it at all. Just Lucid. Never had any problems opening something from MS before until now. When I opened the email and clicked on the attachment it had me save to documents. When trying to open from there Open Office would draw a blank. Tried other things from selections given from OOo to no avail.

All help is greatly appreciated on this. Need to open and read to get something started.

Thanks

Tom

---

### Post by Ozymandias_117 on 2010-06-20
> File extension OFT description:
File extension is used by Microsoft Outlook. Tepmlate file. Templates are used for specifying future documents. 

So I would try Evolution or Thunderbird to open it.

---

### Post by Georgia boy on 2010-06-20
Did that. Won't open. Wants to save file into Home folder. So, did that to documents and still can't open. Same with Evolution. More ideas? I've also posted in the OOo forums to see if they have any ideas also. I will post any fix that they come up with also in case someone else ever hits their head on the wall for this.

Thanks

Tom

---

### Post by Georgia boy on 2010-06-20
Just got this from OOo forum.

See [http://filext.com/file-extension/OFT](http://filext.com/file-extension/OFT).

Guess that I'm kind of stuck with not being to open this then since I don't have Windows/Outlook. And I spent the weekend banging my head against the wall too trying to find a way to get it to open. Guess I'll have to get my supervisor to open it for me since I don't have a computer at work yet. That project is still in the works. Moved to a different position so they're having fun trying to get everything set up for me. Got a Blackberry out of it so far though. I know that when I get my pc and eventually a laptop I'll be able to tether it to them. Hmmm, will I also be able to do so in Lucid or will that be mainly with the work and Windows? That's a thought I guess to work on later once I get the BB set up. That is the reason I was trying so hard to open that email attachment at home. I wanted to get it going because of not being able to do so at work. Guess she'll have to get everything going for me now. Oh well, guess that's the way it's going to happen then.
Unless someone has an idea of going around this.
Thanks

Tom

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-06-20
Try renaming it (F2) and changing the .oft to .odt, see if OOo will open it then.

---

### Post by Georgia boy on 2010-06-20
Ahh Warfacegod my friend. Tried but still didn't do the trick. Guess because of it being an Outlook template it's not going to happen? Going to have the supervisor open it for me so I can take care of it, but would still like to find a way to do so with what I have on my PC so if something like that happens again I can get to it. 

Thanks

Tom

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-06-20
I tried to do a search for .oft on the Open Office site but it asked me to register. Perhaps that might be worth doing, in your case.

---

### Post by Georgia boy on 2010-06-20
Thanks. Did that also. Posted a thread there also. They gave me a link in which I posted here in the thread. So far that's all that was able to come up with. Guess Outlook isn't going to be touched for opening except for using Outlook is it? Oh well guess that's the way it's going to be. 

Thanks for the help.

Tom

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-06-20
Sure thing hoss. You could try installing MS Office (choke) via Wine or run Windows (also choke) as a virtual machine inside Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Georgia boy on 2010-06-21
> **warfacegod said:**
> Sure thing hoss. You could try installing MS Office (choke) via Wine or run Windows (also choke) as a virtual machine inside Ubuntu.

Yeah, I'd be "all choked up" wouldn't I?:lolflag:
Guess that on some things Microsoft won't allow you no matter what to open in other sources and Outlook is going to be one of them. Think that I'll have the supervisor do this for me until I get a laptop from the company or also a desktop from the site I'm working at. Then I'll be able to do things like that. Just was hopping against hope that there was a way around having to do this without using MS Office(in which I can't afford nor do I want) or Windows(which is another one I don't want to waste money on) with Wine or Virtual Machine. But such is luck as it may go right? The only way I'll be able to use Windows is on their computers. No, I won't install Ubuntu or any other GNU/Linux O.S. on their computers. Don't think they would appreciate that or have a sense of humor if I did that, even if I set up a dual boot for them. :lol:

I do appreciate the help offered for this though. I'll keep checking but not counting on anything to open for me unless someone can think of something else.

Thanks

Tom

---

### Post by Georgia boy on 2010-06-21
The file with extension 'OFT' is not easy to open with newer MSOffice!!!

see:
[http://www.ehow.com/how_5908163_open-fo](http://www.ehow.com/how_5908163_open-fo) ... -2007.html

Did not find converter for them either.

Got this from the thread I opened in Open Office.org.

Tom

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-06-21
Figures. Yet another example of Windows not being compatible with itself.

---

