---
title: ".run files"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by smileyguy on 2009-04-24
Since I've just learnt what **repositories** are and why there safe I thought I'd better ask:

I've just found some free .run game files from my isp at [http://iinet.net.au/freezone/#](http://iinet.net.au/freezone/#) - I think you guys can see them if you're not with them but not 100% sure.

anyway - i think i can figure how to run them from [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=486588](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=486588) but thought i'd better check **if it is as safe as running files with the package manager**?

any tips?

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-04-24
Nope not as safe, simply because they come from a source that you have little knowledge of.

However, if they are for linux you should be able to download them and place them in a directory and run them.

The easiest way to run them is to cd to the directory. Then

```
chmod +x <filename>
```
which sets the execute bit

and

```
./<filename>
```

which will run them. 

**DO NOT** enter your admin password if asked.

---

### Post by smileyguy on 2009-04-24
Although my isp is a pretty big one (iinet). should i not trust them?

Because I am bypassing the package manager, does that mean the installation would be "unmonitored" i.e., I'd find it hard to trace where all the bits are placed?

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-04-24
My guess is that these applications are not packages, but 'standalone' things so the .run file will be all there is.

---

### Post by smileyguy on 2009-04-24
That makes sense, but does that mean I wouldn't be able to 'uninstall' it as bits could be everywhere or is it possible that it would just run from one location. It's Doom 3 from my isp (iinet).

---

### Post by Didius Falco on 2009-04-24
I've installed .run files from a couple of trusted places, and once they are installed I've been able to uninstall them from Synaptic and/or apt-get.

Post a link to the files you are interested in and I'll have a look - I'm in Brisbane. Whether or not to trust them is your call...

---

### Post by smileyguy on 2009-04-24
**[http://iinet.net.au/freezone/#](http://iinet.net.au/freezone/#)**

go to ** /games/idstuff/doom3/linux/** (full path doesn't seem to come up)I'm gonna try anyway (best way to learn hey!) It's a new Ubuntu installation and I can easily reainstall again!Just tried to run it and  redirected it to a path i had access to (funny place im sure in /home/usr/Documents but it should do for trial purposes. Nothing happened anyway so i'll keep playing.

still interested in your opinion though:)

---

### Post by Didius Falco on 2009-04-24
> **smileyguy said:**
> **[http://iinet.net.au/freezone/#](http://iinet.net.au/freezone/#)**

go to ** /games/idstuff/doom3/linux/** (full path doesn't seem to come up)I'm gonna try anyway (best way to learn hey!)

still interested in your opinion though:)

Iinet isn't going to let me even look at it, let alone download it. without signing up for an account. 
If it's provided by iinet themselves, I'd be inclined to trust it.

May you be happily Doomed!! :P

---

### Post by smileyguy on 2009-04-24
thanks:) i thought it might work that way. doesnt count in my download quota!! That's how i got my first ubuntu installation yesterday:)

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-04-24
For Doom3, you want [ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/doom3/linux/doom3-linux-1.3.1.1304.x86.run](ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/doom3/linux/doom3-linux-1.3.1.1304.x86.run)

---

