---
title: "9.10 FF Flash Player"
date: 2010-02-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by flue on 2010-02-22
I'm not sure if this is a FireFox issue or a Ubuntu 9.10 issue.  Flash in FF is a bit sluggish.  I've read that "one" possible solution is to remove hardware acceleration.  However when I right click in the flash player box and to to settings Flash locks up.  Or Settings locks up.  You can do nothing on the site but close or reload.  I've thought about completely removing FF and Flash and starting from scratch.  Just not sure.  If this is a FF issue I'll go bug FF forum guys.

Thanks. 

Ubuntu Uber-noob.

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-02-22
i was just told by adobe to use an older flash
so i can use my webcam but it did not fix my problem
good luck

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-02-22
> **flue said:**
> I'm not sure if this is a FireFox issue or a Ubuntu 9.10 issue.  Flash in FF is a bit sluggish.  I've read that "one" possible solution is to remove hardware acceleration.  However when I right click in the flash player box and to to settings Flash locks up.  Or Settings locks up.  You can do nothing on the site but close or reload.  I've thought about completely removing FF and Flash and starting from scratch.  Just not sure.  If this is a FF issue I'll go bug FF forum guys.

Thanks. 

Ubuntu Uber-noob.

Specs, graphics card etc. Are you running 32 or 64 bit ubuntu, is compiz active?

---

### Post by flue on 2010-02-22
> **philinux said:**
> Specs, graphics card etc. Are you running 32 or 64 bit ubuntu, is compiz active?

You WOULD ask that.  I might have to wait till I get home but lets see.  Asus A8V, AMD64 3000+ (939 socket), 2GB mem, Gforce 6600GT 256mb, 320GB HDD.  

I don't know what compiz is.  But I'll look it up. :)  I'm running 32bit, but if 64bit is more umph I might reload.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-02-22
> **flue said:**
> You WOULD ask that.  I might have to wait till I get home but lets see.  Asus A8V, AMD64 3000+ (939 socket), 2GB mem, Gforce 6600GT 256mb, 320GB HDD.  

I don't know what compiz is.  But I'll look it up. :)  I'm running 32bit, but if 64bit is more umph I might reload.

Compiz. System>prefs>appearance>visual effects.

Try None and see if it makes any difference. Is it all sites or just some in particular.

32 bit flash on a 64 bit system can give problems. You're ok there.

Have you activated the graphics driver? System>admin>hardware drivers?

---

### Post by flue on 2010-02-22
Most sites are the kids gaming sites (disney, pbs, nickjr) and some time wasting the wife does.  On wife sites bejeweled is sluggish.  For the kids they experience phantom flashes in the middle of the screen.  I'll have to check if all Flash player sites are locking up in settings or if it's only the one.

I'm assuming the nvidia driver is active since ubuntu tells me to use the nvidia manager to change video settings.

I'll try to compiz settings, configs when I get on the system after a while.

---

### Post by flue on 2010-02-22
Update:

this seems to be a FireFox and Facebook issue.  Bejewled Blitz on FB has issues with my 9.10 on both Firefox 3.5.8 and Opera 10.10

FF has issue with flash on other gaming sites (addicting games, pbskids, etc) but Opera is fine on these sites.

Looks like it's a 3 part issue.  Flash for ubuntu, flash in FF for ubuntu and facebook.

---

### Post by MockY on 2010-02-24
Flash in general makes websites slow and sluggish, especially Flash games. This is something I have learned to live with, but for other converts, these flash games is the majority of their computer usage. So if these games don't run as smooth as in Windows, they simply don't want to use Ubuntu anymore. Facebook games are apparently the worst of them all, some being completely unusable. I don't use them myself, but this is the most frequent complaint I get from people I introduced Ubuntu to.

I would LOVE a solution to this horrible Flash performance issue in Linux, but I have not seen much progress on this front during the years I have been using Ubuntu as my main OS. And Adobe don't seem to interested in it either....  *sigh*

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-02-24
Updated

Saturday, February 20, 2010 2:50:15 AM PST
Opened

Friday, February 19, 2010 4:19:16 PM PST
Status

Open - Pending Your Response
Product

Flash Desktop Player
Support contract

Adobe Support Program
Subject

linux/ubuntu has changed v4l1 to v4l2
Notes & responses
Notes to Customer

Saturday, February 20, 2010 2:49:47 AM PST
Hello john,

Thank you for contacting Adobe Web case Support.


I am Hemant Sharma working on Case ID( 181452070) regarding the problem
with the Flash Player on Linus .

Based on the information provided by you, I understand that you need to
install the Flash Player on Linux . I value the importance of your
concern and I am here to assist you.
John, we recommend you to uninstall the previous version of Flash Player
and install the Program from the link below and Select version to
download.

[http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/otherversions/](http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/otherversions/)

---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-02-24
> **flue said:**
> Update:

this seems to be a FireFox and Facebook issue.  Bejewled Blitz on FB has issues with my 9.10 on both Firefox 3.5.8 and Opera 10.10

FF has issue with flash on other gaming sites (addicting games, pbskids, etc) but Opera is fine on these sites.

Looks like it's a 3 part issue.  Flash for ubuntu, flash in FF for ubuntu and facebook.

have you tried the x64 flash version?
check link in sig (make sure you click "remove" first!)

---

### Post by achase79 on 2010-02-24
-

---

### Post by Newbird on 2010-02-26
My wife also likes to watch some streaming video and I find that at some web-sites the hardware acceleration is enabled and sometimes it is grey-ed out. The sites where the hardware acceleration is enabled it looks good but is choppy at sites where acceleration cannot be enabled. Any idea why this would be?

It's interesting that if I run Puppy Linux then hardware acceleration is aways enabled on all web sites.

---

### Post by wiljaxon on 2010-02-28
Hello I got my webcam working in Firefox (although this applies to Opera, Konqueror etc by substituting the application name as the last word):

Type this in your command-line console:

**env LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so firefox**

For Opera it would be:
[B]
env LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so opera[/B]

Worth a try for some types of webcam.

Will

---

### Post by myolbug on 2010-02-28
Go here: [http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/flashplayer10/](http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/flashplayer10/)
Download this: [http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/flashplayer10.html](http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/flashplayer10.html)
extract to your desktop
open the folder and also open your home directory.  Hit CTRL H to show all files.  Look for.mozilla and open.  Then drag the newly extracted ta.gz into the plugins folder in .mozilla and restart FF.  You should be good to  go.
I was having issues with flash but not anymore.  Working Grrreat!

---

