---
title: "12.04 Graphics ISSUE Intel GL40"
date: 2012-05-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by xXLinnyXx on 2012-05-25
Hey all, 

Im new to all this , first time Linux. I loaded Ubuntu 12.04 on my old TOSHIBA Satellite Pro L300 PSLB9A-02L001 to give it a new lease on life. so far everything works... with a bit of research. 

The specs on the computer say that i have a Intel GL40 graphics chipset. i can gain a resolution of 1920x1280 , but the graphics driver says unsupported.

i typed this into terminal:

linny@linny-Satellite-Pro-L300:~$ /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p
OpenGL vendor string:   Tungsten Graphics, Inc
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa DRI Mobile Intel® GM45 Express Chipset x86/MMX/SSE2
OpenGL version string:  2.1 Mesa 8.0.2

Not software rendered:    yes
Not blacklisted:          yes
GLX fbconfig:             yes
GLX texture from pixmap:  yes
GL npot or rect textures: yes
GL vertex program:        yes
GL fragment program:      yes
GL vertex buffer object:  yes
GL framebuffer object:    yes
GL version is 1.4+:       yes

Unity 3D supported:       yes

......so i notice its possibly running on GM45 drivers. how can i force new drivers , or should i leave it , as its running its best ???? i dont know these things but i feel it should be running better.... any thoughts

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-05-25
Do the following in a terminal window and post the results back here:

lspci | grep VGA


Dave ;)

---

### Post by xXLinnyXx on 2012-05-25
linny@linny-Satellite-Pro-L300:~$ lspci | grep VGA
00:02.0 [COLOR="Red"]VGA[/COLOR] compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)

---

### Post by xXLinnyXx on 2012-05-25
so... is this correct ?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-05-25
I think my next step would be start additional drivers and see if it finds a driver different from what you are currently using or if there is already one listed but needs to be activated.

Try that and post back again.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by xXLinnyXx on 2012-05-26
Thanks for your help but without sounding really dumb , how would i do that ,,, im too used to devise manager in windows , and cant get my head around this

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-05-26
If you are running 12.04, with the default unity desktop, slide your mouse to the left until the unity "menu" bar appears.  Go to the top-most icon (unity home) and click - it will open another "menu" to the right with a search bar.  Just type addit and it should be enough for it to show the additional drivers launcher.  Just click on it.  Be sure you are connected to the internet when you do this.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by xXLinnyXx on 2012-05-26
it just says No proprietry drivers are in use on this system

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-05-26
> **xXLinnyXx said:**
> i can gain a resolution of 1920x1280 , but the graphics driver says unsupported.

Where exactly did you saw this message ? i don't understand the problem. 

Also , additional (proprietary) drives for intel are not exist in linux , all are open source and pre-isntalled on Ubuntu.

---

### Post by xXLinnyXx on 2012-05-28
I actually have a screen resolution of 1280x800.. i cant get any higher.

and when you goto system settings , and goto details the graphics is unknown

---

### Post by Avaritia on 2012-05-28
Im pretty sure that a 15 inch screen can only handle 1280x800 as a maximum resoloution, you had it set at 1920x1280 in windows? I bet the icons on screen looked to small to be useable lol.

---

### Post by ClimaxAlexander on 2012-10-31
Hey man did you get anywhere with this? I have a Toshiba Satellite C660 15T (now discontinued :( ) and I'm having issues with graphics rendering. I have the Intel GL40 graphics chipset and when running Half Life 1 in Steam it is incredibly jittery. I was able to run it perfectly on Windows 7 with Steam. I am using Steam through the Crossover app (wine basically) so do you guys think this is an issue with my graphics drivers or with Crossover? Cheers!

EDIT: My system says "Graphics driver unknown". And "experience standard". Do help please.

---

### Post by Alex Yursha on 2013-01-17
This driver issue still persists in Ubuntu 12.10. Ubuntu 12.10 detects driver incorrectly.

I have Toshiba Satellite L300-245, whit Intel GL40 chipset and Mobile Intel GMA 4500M graphics adapter with core and shader clock 400 MHz. But Ubuntu 12.10 detects it as Intel GM45 chipset and Mobile Intel GMA 4500MHD graphics adapter which has clock and shader speed 533 MHz. While using Ubuntu 12.10 I start feel severe eye-strain in and hour or half on different displays, but if I use Windows 7 eyes feel comfortable for the whole day. Can this be connected with incompatible Intel drivers which act as if my GMA 4500M ran 533 MHz, though it only runs 450MHz ?

---

