---
title: "x32 i386 .iso issues, not able to burn correctly"
date: 2010-05-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by spydeyrch on 2010-05-10
Hey guys, has anyone else experienced any issues with the Ubuntu 10.04 i386 (x32) .iso file? I have downloaded it 4 separate times: twice from the ubuntu website, each time from a different source; and twice via torrent.

On each one I have done a MD5 check and they all are correct. I have tried to burn each of them in Mint 8 x32, Ubuntu 10.04 x64, and Win7 Pro x64 all at max speed and again at the slowest speed possible. Every time, no matter the combination (ubuntu website, torrent, mint 8, 10.04, win7, max speed, slowest speed, etc.) every time at, the very end when the disc is benig finalized, it fails. I eject the CD and stick it back in and it is recognized as the ubuntu 10.04 cd but it can not read the cd at all, it fails.

This has lead me to believe that the .iso is corrupted. Not just mine, but the original .iso, being as I have downloaded it from 4 different sources and tried it in three different OSs.

So, has anyone else experieinced this kind of behaviour & issues? Any suggestions as to resolving the issue? Who has been successful and how did you do it? I have the x64 .iso and it works fine. I have it installed on my machine, no problems. It is just with the x32 .iso that I am having these issues.

Any help or suggestions would be great. Thanks a ton!!

-Spydey :guitar:

---

### Post by narendraD on 2010-05-10
You are not alone. And No, the original .iso is not currupted. it is just fine. There are umpteen posts all on the same or similar issues. 

My advice if you have a Pen drive is to use UNetbootin to write the iso to the pen drive and use it to install. That is what I did too and am now writing this post from the new system.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-05-10
I downloaded the [Minimal CD]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD") and it works great.

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-05-10
These days when I'm installing 90% of the time I use Ubuntu's server edition or off a pen drive in mint 8 you can accutally download Ubuntu's USB creator works great.

---

### Post by spydeyrch on 2010-05-10
Yeah, I usually use a pen drive to do all my installs. Actually, I have a 16GB thumb drive divided into two partitions: one for 10.04 x32 with 5GB dedicated for it, and then the other is the remaining 11GB in a FAT 32 FS for a shared drive. The 10.04 partition is also a persistent live install. So I take that with me where ever I go and I have my system with me plus, I can transfer files to/from my shared partition to/from my linux partition and share it with other windows systems, etc. Handy little bugger!!

But anyway, that is not the point. I usually do use a pen drive. The issue is that I was trying to install wubi for a friend via a pen drive and wubi wanted to download the .iso to install it, but his connection is via a wireless broadband ISP. Horrible, just horrible!! So I figured, if I burn it to a CD instead of a pen drive, it wouldn't need to download the .iso again. But viola! that is my problem, I can't get it to burn to a cd due to this issue that I guess has been plaguing many of us.

But I think that I found a way around the issue. I was investigating something else, related to wubi but to this issue too, via this thread that I started: 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1479197](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1479197)

So, if I decide to go the WUBI route, I am going to download just the wubi installer, put it on a pen drive and copy over the .iso file to that same pen drive. That should solve the issue, at least I hope so. We will see.

If push comes to shove, they have a second not-used HDD in their system that I could install ubuntu on thenormal way and do a dual boot, which is my preferred method. But I didn't want to leave them, and ultimately me, with having to fix the MBR/Bootloader of XP if they decide not to stick with ubuntu, hence my first choice of wubi.

We will see where this goes. Thanks for all your help everyone. I will report back later as right now, I am at work. :)

-Spydey :guitar:

---

