---
title: "... Newest (sort of) Grub issue..."
date: 2013-04-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Crackow on 2013-04-07
I wiped my system drive and tried to boot into LiveUSB, and the Grub2 Recover text came saying that my boot device wasn't present and that there wasn't an operating system. I removed my hard drives and tried again, it just said that the OS was missing. I've made other LiveUSBs on different flash drives, and I haven't had an ounce of luck. Does Grub2 install to anywhere other than the drives? At other times, "grub rescue>" won't even be displayed, but basically the same message. This would tend to mean that there are different bootloaders handling my devices, but the same problem affects both. Now that I think on it, I'll check if it pops up when I try with the LiveUSB compared with when I try to boot with a drive. I will also see if I can get a hard drive from a working device into mine and get it booted up. I will also get my old system drive into a working computer and install a new OS with a fierce MBR that will certainly overwrite any dregs of Grub2- probably Windows 7, as I know from experience that it does that very well! However, what else can I do? Thanks!

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2013-04-07
Maybe you wrote grub to the Live USB?
It is a often made mistake because sometimes the installer selects the USB as the target device

---

### Post by Crackow on 2013-04-07
I still don't know what I had done, but I've got Grub2 menu working. It is actually really odd, though. Grub2 information must be installed somewhere else on my laptop, as my configuration is exactly the same, even though the drive was wiped. When booted from another computer, my flash drive boots into my original LiveUSB setup, so we can rule out the replacement of its Grub. I guess that my next question is whether completely wiping the drive would have left the MBR intact. Thanks!

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2013-04-07
> **Crackow said:**
> I still don't know what I had done, but I've got Grub2 menu working. It is actually really odd, though. Grub2 information must be installed somewhere else on my laptop, as my configuration is exactly the same, even though the drive was wiped. When booted from another computer, my flash drive boots into my original LiveUSB setup, so we can rule out the replacement of its Grub. I guess that my next question is whether completely wiping the drive would have left the MBR intact. Thanks!

Much depends. You didn't post any disk info so we don't know exactly what you have in place. Some laptops have very small SSD's. (maybe this could be the case?)
I'm still confused in trying to understand your comments.

'Completely wipe'? -- If you mean format, no it will not

---

### Post by Crackow on 2013-04-08
No. I literally wiped my hard drive. Not deleted, reformated, or the like. I actually wiped my hard drive. Using Wipe on an Ubuntu emplacement and then (to be safe) the equivalent on Windows 7. I know for certain that this laptop does not have an mSSD because it is a tad bit old, and was not at the top of the line in its time. Also, I've taken it apart sufficiently to know most of the internal components. If you'd like, I can post my fdisk or similar in a mo'. Just tell me which command to type, as I'm still quite inexperienced in this thing. I bet what it is is that there is a remnant of Grub left on my secondary drive. I still can't boot into anything other than the Ubuntu on my system drive; not even a LiveUSB will work, currently.

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2013-04-08
```
sudo fdisk -l
```

also

```
sudo parted -l
```

---

