---
title: "11.1 and problems with wireless connection"
date: 2011-05-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Cruzeycruz on 2011-05-08
Hello Folks,

I downloaded Ubuntu 11.1 and can't seem to connect to wireless. How do I do this? 

Thanks,
Cruzeycruz

---

### Post by robgraves on 2011-05-08
i'm assuming you mean 11.04, but in the top right corner it should show user name, time, and should see an icon that looks diamond shaped, if you click on that you should see available wireless networks and then connect from there, or edit a network connection as well.

---

### Post by salingpusa on 2011-10-14
i had this problem. i reenable wireless manually. im using laptop so i hit the fn + wireless button.

---

### Post by lotha on 2011-10-20
I am having a similar problem with Ubuntu 11.1
Updated about 3 or 4 days ago and now the wireless connection will not retain the password. Every time I start Ubuntu 11.1 and connect to wireless I have to enter my connection password.

Anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by chrisbaer10 on 2011-10-26
I am having the same problem with my wireless keys.  Seems like they are not being saved... and I have to enter them each time I connect to the network.

Pretty annoying... ](*,)

---

### Post by teju009 on 2011-11-09
I am having same problem too. I need to enter my network password each time I log in... :(

---

### Post by Sirfloatsalot1 on 2011-12-12
I co-installed Ubuntu 11.04 (yesterday) with my Windows XP Pro SP3.  No problems seeing my wireless or connecting to the Internet with XP, but with Ubuntu, nothing shows up on the wireless screen.  I read one of the forum posts and they though 10.04 might be more reliable, so I tried that too - no wireless locations.  Any suggestions?  Thanks!

---

