---
title: "Hal will not inititialsie after mega upgrade"
date: 2009-09-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cogvos on 2009-09-01
Dear all,

I have been (finally) upgrading from Feisty to 8.10 on the way to 9.whatever but have hit a huge problem. All was OK up until the upgrade into 8.10. I didn't get any errors but now have several problems.

1 - the default generated x.config is garbage stating that there are no valid screens and the the Nvidia glx is not installed (I have a 6600)
2. I get an error stating the HAL has failed to initialize when logging in as a normal (not root) user
3. If I switch the x config to a failesafe I get X to start but there are no keyboard definitions in it so it's unusable(why have this?) I can bodge a working xconfig together with default (not nvidia) drivers and proper keyboard defs but am then stuck as I cannot connect to the internet to try and repair the problems - presumably as there is that HAL problem?

Can anyone help a very confused guy? I can supply logs etc but you would need to tell me which. I am guessing that something glitched big time during the update into 8.10 and that until I can connect to the .net I am stuck.

Hoping for a rescuer....

J.

PS I have two installs - the Feisty was on another PC

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-09-01
boot into recovery mode of the newest Kernel, choose Xfix, that should fix the graphics issue, and maybe HAL... if not boot to command prompt and  run the upgrade form the command line to see if something was missed

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```

---

### Post by cogvos on 2009-09-02
Thanks this fixed and I now have upgraded to 9.4. Sadly I now have a problem with Nvidia - 

It completely fails to start, displays an error and I have to run in a lo res mode. My Xorg.conf

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Mon Mar 23 15:33:27 PST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

This is after I upgraded to Nvidias 185 driver to try and cure a problem with glx, It does not look right at all, where are the screens for example?

I'd post the error logs, only I don't know where they are stored. :(

---

