---
title: "Need help with GRUB menu setup after re-install."
date: 2009-09-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by XmodAlloy on 2009-09-22
Hello, I have recently done a major upgrade, I cloned my main hard drive with Acronis Migrate Easy (the free trial anyway) and put it on a new 1TB hard drive, that worked pretty well, accept for the fact that I have tow hard drives and always have with this machine, the main hard drive has windows 7 on it, and I wiped the other one (it had puppy Linux on it, not the best OS but not bad for older hardware). I then installed Linux Mint 7 Gloria, but my hard drives were set in the wrong order in my BIOS when I installed, so, after the install I fixed the BIOS order and booted into puppy and re-installed GRUB, to the MBR of SDA1, this is my windows disk, the new 1TB one, and sent all the GRUB files to my Linux /boot/grub folder.  however, after the install finished and I rebooted, I found myself staring at some text telling me that GRUB has few BASH commands and to press TAB to get a list of usable instructions on a black screen, instead of the normal graphical interface showing the Linux mint background (or puppy background) and my OS options.
However, I realize I can boot into windows by typing 
"rootnoverify (hd0,0)
makeactive
chainloader +1
boot"
and that brings me here after rebooting several times and looking over my menu.lst and my device.map files for errors, they looked right, and I double-checked it against my old files I backed up from puppy (I backup everything before changing anything).
I do not want to type all that stuff out just to boot into windows, or type more to go into Linux mint, I want my graphical menu where I can hit enter on the OS I want to boot.
anyone know what went wrong and how to fix it? I know I messed up on the install, but I can still get it to boot, it's just anoying.

my computer specs are: core 2 duo over-clocked to 3.66 GHz, two Nvidia 9500 GTs, 8GB 1066 MHz RAM, one 320GB Western Digital hard drive that has Linux Mint on it, one 1024GB Western Digital hard drive that has windows 7 on it, and one computer that is really hard to boot......
any help greatly appreciated!
PS, sorry for being so wordy.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2009-09-22
Why don't you reinstall grub from [Mint?]("http://www.linuxmint.com/wiki/index.php/How_to_repair_your_grub")

---

### Post by XmodAlloy on 2009-09-22
I do not know the command to start GRUB from mint, that's why I working with puppy so long, it had many simple features that were totally pointless, like being able to re-install grub.
there is probably a console command to get mint to start GRUB, anyone know it? thanks!

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-09-22
> **XmodAlloy said:**
> I do not know the command to start GRUB from mint, that's why I working with puppy so long, it had many simple features that were totally pointless, like being able to re-install grub.
there is probably a console command to get mint to start GRUB, anyone know it? thanks!

Post your current menu.lst please.

---

### Post by XmodAlloy on 2009-09-22
[QUOTE=menu.lst]# GRUB configuration file '/boot/grub/menu.lst'.
# generated by 'grubconfig'.  Mon Sep 21 18:05:29 2009
#
# The backup copy of the MBR for drive '/dev/sda' is
# here '/boot/grub/mbr.sda.8680'.  You can restore it like this.
# dd if=/boot/grub/mbr.sda.8680 of=/dev/sda bs=512 count=1
#
# Start GRUB global section
#timeout 30
color light-gray/blue black/light-gray
gfxmenu /boot/grub/deep_stage1
# End GRUB global section
# Other bootable partition config begins
  title Windows (on /dev/sda1)
  rootnoverify (hd0,0)
  makeactive
  chainloader +1
# Other bootable partition config ends
# Linux bootable partition config begins
  title Linux (on /dev/sdb1)
  root (hd1,0)
  kernel /boot/vmlinuz root=/dev/sdb1 ro vga=normal
# Linux bootable partition config ends
# Linux bootable initrd config begins
  title Linux initrd /mnt/sdb1/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-generic (on /dev/sdb1)
  root (hd1,0)
  kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic root=/dev/sdb1 ramdisk_size=22136 root=/dev/ram0 rw
  initrd /mnt/sdb1/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-generic
# Linux bootable initrd config ends
title Install GRUB to floppy disk (on /dev/fd0)
pause Insert a formatted floppy disk and press enter.
root (hd1,0)
setup (fd0)
pause Press enter to continue.
title Install GRUB to Linux partition (on /dev/sdb1)
root (hd1,0)
setup (hd1,0)
pause Press enter to continue.
title -     For help press 'c', then type: 'help'
root (hd0)
title -     For usage examples, type: 'cat /boot/grub/usage.txt'
root (hd0)
[/QUOTE]

this is my last post for now, I have to get to school.
thanks for the help so far, this forum seems really nice, a lot of people that don't mind helping someone who really doesn't know too much about GRUB.

---

### Post by SuperPetRalf on 2009-09-22
Hi, just as zvacet suggested I am sure there is a GUI tool to edit your grub start-up file. However does your config file look similar or exactly the same? 

As you have swapped round the drives, wont the configuration files need to point to a different channel?

Just a thought

Still I would go with the MINT tool.

SPR

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-09-22
boot up a *nix liveCD distro

open a terminal session:```
grub (or sudo grub depending on the distro) (depress enter)
find /boot/grub/menu.lst (depress enter)
```You should be given one or more partitions where grub has found a menu.lst file

For example:```
(hd0,1)
(hd0,2)
(hd0,3)
```You should know which menu.lst you want the grub MBR to point to, then point it there using the setup command:```
setup (hd0,1) (depress enter)
```You can view the available grub commands also:```
help (depress enter)
```

It should be noted that there are many examples and posts regarding the editing of the menu.lst itself

But not as much information about how to re-install or change the part of the grub bootloader that resides in the Master Boot Record

Thus the above post

oh...```
quit (depress enter)
```To quit the grub application
(but you already knew that from viewing the help area...right?!?)

.

---

### Post by Darkwing-Duck on 2009-09-22
Another little howto for you on configuring GRUB... This might be able to help you out.

[http://gwos.org/udsf/doku.php/core:grub:restore#configuring_grub_menu](http://gwos.org/udsf/doku.php/core:grub:restore#configuring_grub_menu)

Let us know if you need more help.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2009-09-23
> there is probably a console command to get mint to start GRUB, anyone know it?

Commands are on link I posted to you.

---

### Post by XmodAlloy on 2009-09-26
I got it working, after which a  large amount of other issues chased me down, and I had to eliminate them.
I re-installed Mint, this time using the 64 bit version, (I messed up a VERY large amount of things on the first install.)
and it configured grub again.
after all the booting issues were over, I then had video driver issues due to me having SLI, and then a few other small bugs made it very hard to use.
Now I have it all working, and I thank you all for your help. 
Don

---

