---
title: "[SOLVED] Can't change display settings past 800x600 resolution!"
date: 2009-01-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ToxicNostalgia on 2009-01-10
Before switching to kubuntu from windows, I always kept my monitor displaying its recommended resolution 1440x900@60hz. When I switched to kubuntu it stuck to 800x600. I tried to switch it using KRandRTray, but it only gives me 4 options: 800x600(auto), 640x480, 400x300, and 320x340. All of which are well under my monitor's capabilities. I am new to linux, and I need some assistance on changing it back to my preferred resolution 1440x900. I know my video card is not the issue (obviously because it worked fine in windows). I'm not sure if it could be a driver issue. I'm really new to linux so not being able to change it the easy way using KRandRTray is throwing me through a loop. 

I am running kubuntu 8.10, and my monitor is an Acer P191W 19" LCD. 

And my xorg.conf looks like this (I think):

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection


---

### Post by ToxicNostalgia on 2009-01-10
Can someone please lend me a hand? :)

---

### Post by ToxicNostalgia on 2009-01-11
Bump, please help. Seems like a fairly easy issue to resolve.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2009-01-11
Well seeing you are running Kubuntu 8.10 I am not surprised about your issues.
Ubuntu 8.10 doesnt really have any good tools for screen resolution, if its stuck its pretty much stuck unless you manually edit certain configuration files.
Its a shame too, as ubuntu usually has good screen detection tools... but they are absent in 8.10
For new users I suggest using Ubuntu/Kubuntu 8.04, it kmight be older but at least it has a easy way to configure a monitor.
I cant wait for jaunty to fix this again...

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2009-01-11
It would help if you listed your video card aswell, did you activate the recommended driver for the video card provided in restricted hardware drivers? If its ATI or nvidia they both ahve apps that you can edit settings from including resolution but without knowing your card cant help out for that.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2009-01-11
> **tuxxy said:**
> It would help if you listed your video card aswell, did you activate the recommended driver for the video card provided in restricted hardware drivers? If its ATI or nvidia they both ahve apps that you can edit settings from including resolution but without knowing your card cant help out for that.

even so ibex is terrible with monitor detection, the absence of a decent screen resolution tool makes us look like fools.

---

### Post by ToxicNostalgia on 2009-01-11
> **SunnyRabbiera said:**
> Well seeing you are running Kubuntu 8.10 I am not surprised about your issues.
Ubuntu 8.10 doesnt really have any good tools for screen resolution, if its stuck its pretty much stuck unless you manually edit certain configuration files.
Its a shame too, as ubuntu usually has good screen detection tools... but they are absent in 8.10
For new users I suggest using Ubuntu/Kubuntu 8.04, it kmight be older but at least it has a easy way to configure a monitor.
I cant wait for jaunty to fix this again...

I have noticed. Without this small issue, I would be very happy with kubuntu!


> **tuxxy said:**
> It would help if you listed your video card aswell, did you activate the recommended driver for the video card provided in restricted hardware drivers? If its ATI or nvidia they both ahve apps that you can edit settings from including resolution but without knowing your card cant help out for that.

I'm not sure exactly what card it is, however, it is nvidia. I actually installed envyNG yesterday and activated the recommended driver (173.14.12-1-0ubuntu4). After which, I installed nvidia-settings, but I was confused how to use the program to fix my resolution. Preferably, I would like to use nvidia-settings (if possible) to fix the issue because its seems like it would be easier. If not, someone would have to spoon feed me step-by-step directions on EXACTLY how to edit my xorg.conf to force my desired resolution. So please, someone pick a path and lets get at it.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-01-11
If you're feeling bold:

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-core envyng-qt
```

Then restart the computer and see what happens!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

I've been lucky. I used to have to manually install openchrome and now it just works out-of-box!

This basically "empty" xorg.conf puzzles me:confused:

---

### Post by ToxicNostalgia on 2009-01-11
> **kansasnoob said:**
> If you're feeling bold:

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-core envyng-qt
```

Then restart the computer and see what happens!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

I've been lucky. I used to have to manually install openchrome and now it just works out-of-box!

This basically "empty" xorg.conf puzzles me:confused:

I already have both of those packages installed (installed them yesterday), and I still am displaying at 800x600. And yeah, my xorg.conf is abnormally short. 

Well, moving on... Next idea?

---

### Post by hashimoto on 2009-01-11
Why not do what it proposes in your xorg.conf? 
First make sure you have the specs of your monitor (resolutions, refresh rates etc) and  display card.
Then open terminal and run:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

This will run a configuration script where you can set up the details.

---

### Post by blackened on 2009-01-11
> **hashimoto said:**
> Why not do what it proposes in your xorg.conf? 
First make sure you have the specs of your monitor (resolutions, refresh rates etc) and  display card.
Then open terminal and run:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

This will run a configuration script where you can set up the details.

All that will do is wipe the file clean again. The reconfigure script will only ask questions pertaining to input types (keyboard layout etc.) and doesn't change anything related to display. This is all handled by the auto-configuration, or by manually editing xorg.conf, or by on-the-fly control via xrandr.



Try this

```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

then copy and paste this in its place (replacing it entirely, or just adding the monitor section since that's all I've changed)

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	HorizSync          24-80
	VertRefresh        56-75
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

after that, either ctrl+alt+backspace to kill X, or 

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

to restart X.

Hopefully you'll have more available resolutions after X restarts.

---

### Post by hashimoto on 2009-01-11
> **blackened said:**
> The reconfigure script will only ask questions pertaining to input types (keyboard layout etc.) and doesn't change anything related to display. This is all handled by the auto-configuration, or by manually editing xorg.conf, or by on-the-fly control via xrandr.

Since when has this changed? I haven't used nor needed this in a long long while but that was how I fixed my problems earlier and it certainly touched the display as well.

Sorry for faulty instructions. Hope you read my sig...  :o

---

### Post by ToxicNostalgia on 2009-01-11
> All that will do is wipe the file clean again. The reconfigure script will only ask questions pertaining to input types (keyboard layout etc.) and doesn't change anything related to display. This is all handled by the auto-configuration, or by manually editing xorg.conf, or by on-the-fly control via xrandr.

Yeah, I actually tried this yesterday, and it does only ask questions pertaining to input types. 

**Back on Topic:**
Unfortunately, the changes had no effect and no additional resolution options were available. :? 
Can we edit xorg.conf to force the correct resolution?

---

### Post by blackened on 2009-01-11
> **hashimoto said:**
> Since when has this changed? I haven't used nor needed this in a long long while but that was how I fixed my problems earlier and it certainly touched the display as well.

Sorry for faulty instructions. Hope you read my sig...  :o

It's been my understanding that most of the auto-configuration stuff (thus obsoleting xorg.conf except for manually overriding autoconfig) was implemented with 8.04. I can't confirm this though, as I was AWOL in Debian land from 7.04 until 8.10 alpha.


> **ToxicNostalgia said:**
> Yeah, I actually tried this yesterday, and it does only ask questions pertaining to input types. 

**Back on Topic:**
Unfortunately, the changes had no effect and no additional resolution options were available. :? 
Can we edit xorg.conf to force the correct resolution?

Well ok. Let's back up and punt then, first you'll need to get some output:

We'll first generate a modeline (this is 1440x900@60, change it if you want the refresh rate different)
```
gtf 1440 900 60
```

It should generate something like
```
  # 1440x900 @ 60.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 55.92 kHz; pclk: 106.47 MHz
  Modeline **"1440x900_60.00"  106.47  1440 1520 1672 1904  900 901 904 932  -HSync +Vsync**
```

Now we add a new mode to xrandr:
```
xrandr --newmode "1440x900_60.00"  106.47  1440 1520 1672 1904  900 901 904 932  -HSync +Vsync
```
Then associate the mode with an output (note that your output name might be different than mine, type xrandr with no arguments to see the available displays)
```
xrandr --addmode **VGA** 1440x900_60.00
```
Then we change the mode of the active output to the one we just created, again changing the output name if applicable
```
xrandr --output **VGA** --mode 1440x900_60.00
```


If that works, then we can incorporate it into a simple bash script to be run at startup. It's really not as complicated as it looks.

---

### Post by ToxicNostalgia on 2009-01-11
Okay, ran into an error when trying to change the output to the new mode we created. The error is down below in a copy of my terminal session (its in red). And my output is currently named default.

> garrett@Garrett:~$ gtf 1440 900 60

  # 1440x900 @ 60.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 55.92 kHz; pclk: 106.47 MHz
  Modeline "1440x900_60.00"  106.47  1440 1520 1672 1904  900 901 904 932  -HSync +Vsync

garrett@Garrett:~$ xrandr --newmode "1440x900_60.00"  106.47  1440 1520 1672 1904  900 901 904 932  -HSync +Vsync
                                                                                                             
garrett@Garrett:~$ xrandr
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 240, current 800 x 600, maximum 800 x 600
default connected 800x600+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   800x600        60.0*    56.0
   640x480        60.0
   400x300        60.0     56.0
   320x240        60.0
  1440x900_60.00 (0x93)  106.5MHz
        h: width  1440 start 1520 end 1672 total 1904 skew    0 clock   55.9KHz
        v: height  900 start  901 end  904 total  932           clock   60.0Hz

garrett@Garrett:~$ xrandr --addmode default 1440x900_60.00

garrett@Garrett:~$ xrandr --output default --mode 1440x900_60.00

[COLOR="Red"]xrandr: Configure crtc 0 failed[/COLOR]

garrett@Garrett:~$

---

### Post by blackened on 2009-01-11
Doh, put the brakes on. Are you using the proprietary nvidia driver? I don't think xrandr will work with it if you are, which means we'll be forced to futz with xorg to try to override the auto-detection. Pretty sure xrandr will only work with nvidia cards using vesa.

---

### Post by ToxicNostalgia on 2009-01-11
So, now, I need to install vesa and set it as my driver?

---

### Post by jman6495 on 2009-01-11
Try And Get Your Video Card Drivers
Also Make Sure Your Moniter Can Get Over 800X600

---

### Post by blackened on 2009-01-11
Nono, that shouldn't be necessary. Try this instead: switch to tty1 (ctrl+alt+F1), then

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```

this should stop the xserver. From there do

```
sudo Xorg -configure
```

---

### Post by ToxicNostalgia on 2009-01-11
I successfully switched to tty1; however, when I tried to stop the xserver, I got an error (sudo: /etc/init.d/gdm stop :command not found).

EDIT: I ended up crafting my xorg.conf, and I successfully changed my resolution to the desired 1440x900. One issue that has occurred is if I try to go into KRandRTray or  System settings > Display, my monitor goes black, and it is says input not supported. 

After I fix this issue, I should be good to go. Any help would be appreciated since I'm not entirely sure on how to remedy these defects.

For reference, my xorg.conf now looks like this:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor1"
	Modeline	"1440x900_60.00"  106.47  1440 1520 1672 1904  900 901 904 932  -HSync +Vsync
	Option		"PreferedMode" "1440x900_60.00"
EndSection
Section "Device"
  	Identifier	"NvidiaGraphicsCard"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option "IgnoreEDID" "1" 
  	Option "NoDDC" "1"
EndSection
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Primary Screen"
	Device		"NvidiaGraphicsCard"
	DefaultDepth 	24
	Subsection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480" "400x300" "320x240"
              Virtual         1440 900  
	EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Primary Screen"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by mpsii on 2009-01-11
You are using Kubuntu, correct?

Use:
```
$ sudo /etc/init.d/kdm stop
```

Kubuntu uses KDM and not GDM.

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2009-01-11
Your running an nvidia card correct? download the NVIDIA X Server Settings and here you will have all your available resolutions for selection.  Search for nvidia-settings using Synaptic or enter in a terminal;

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by blackened on 2009-01-11
> **mpsii said:**
> ...Kubuntu uses KDM and not GDM.

Right you are. Habitual oversight on my part. I don't use KDE.

> **ToxicNostalgia said:**
> I successfully switched to tty1; however, when I tried to stop the xserver, I got an error (sudo: /etc/init.d/gdm stop :command not found).

EDIT: I ended up crafting my xorg.conf, and I successfully changed my resolution to the desired 1440x900. One issue that has occurred is if I try to go into KRandRTray or  System settings > Display, my monitor goes black, and it is says input not supported. 

After I fix this issue, I should be good to go. Any help would be appreciated since I'm not entirely sure on how to remedy these defects

Try including the hsync and vrefresh in your xorg like I mentioned earlier and see if that changes anything.

---

### Post by ToxicNostalgia on 2009-01-11
That didn't fix it, but I'm fairly content now. If I want to fix that same problem, I will try to find the solution elsewhere. Marking this as solved. Thanks to all, especially blackened.

---

### Post by blackened on 2009-01-11
My pleasure.

I'll definitely be happy when they sort out the graphical configuration situation. Auto-detection is no solution if they don't give a transparent method to fix problems when things go awry.

---

### Post by manilaph on 2009-07-21
Has this been solved? I cannot find the solution. I too have the same problem and posted it here

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1215400&highlight=nvidia+activate](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1215400&highlight=nvidia+activate)

The proprietary drivers don't seem to be "activatable" due to some reason. And the nvidia-settings cannot see the drivers even if I installed them via synaptic.

---

### Post by RedRat on 2009-07-21
> **manilaph said:**
> Has this been solved? I cannot find the solution. I too have the same problem and posted it here

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1215400&highlight=nvidia+activate](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1215400&highlight=nvidia+activate)

The proprietary drivers don't seem to be "activatable" due to some reason. And the nvidia-settings cannot see the drivers even if I installed them via synaptic.

Well if there is one thing that prevents Ubuntu going to prime time, it is the graphics driver/screen resolution problems. They are a pain in the @ss. Why this continues into 9.04 when it seemed to start in 8.04 is beyond me. This should be the top priority for the Masters of the Universe at Canonical.

---

### Post by manilaph on 2009-07-22
I have no problems with the "activation" of proprietary hardware driver in Ubuntu 9.04. The problem is specific to Kubuntu 9.04.

Someone on the other thread mentioned that it has something to do with KDE-jockey.

And is therefore KDE-specific.

For some reason, the Nvidia-drivers or Nvidia-related stuff is harder to solve with Kubuntu.

If there is a solution, please post it here because I cannot find the solution in this "solved" thread.

---

### Post by Dullstar on 2009-07-22
They might fix it in 9.10 (we hope).

---

### Post by RedRat on 2009-07-22
> **Dullstar said:**
> They might fix it in 9.10 (we hope).

Don't hold your breath! Graphics issues seem to be a very low priority judging from all of the problems in these releases. I had my first taste when I upgraded from 7.10 to 8.04, it took me hours to get my resolution back. Every time a new kernel was released I had this same difficulty. However, I did not have it in the last one. 

Finally, I seem to have had good luck with envyNG, at least for gnome can't say what KDE is like.

---

### Post by SydneyGB on 2009-08-17
I've been scouring the internet (and these boards in particular) for help with this problem too.  I managed to solve it in VirtualBox, but that was mainly through installation of the special guest addons for VB.  

I'm currently running Xubuntu 8.10 (installed with Wubi).  I've read a lot about xorg.conf and modified mine several times to no effect.  I recently discovered Xorg.0.log and it seems as if it's trying to load the larger resolutions but getting a vrefresh out of range error.  Xorg.conf I can handle, but looking at that log makes me cross-eyed!  :)  I know virtually nothing about monitor refresh rates, except that if you set them wrong you can fry your monitor.  I haven't attempted to set any for that reason.

I have an ATI 3D Rage Pro for my video card, and I think I'm in a bit of information overload as a result of my attempts to learn what drivers to dowload/install/set up.

Getting my screen res to 1024x768 or 1280x1024 (modes which are available in the Windows 98 system Xubuntu shares a HD with) would go a long way toward making my use of Linux easier.  Scrollbars go away! :)

I hope this is a decent place to post this.  I've ben lurking and reading for a couple weeks but I think I need some more personalised help at this point.

---

### Post by SydneyGB on 2009-08-27
I managed to solve this problem on my install by changing the Screen part of my xorg.conf to match the one that works in VirtualBox:

```
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport    0 0
        Depth    24
        Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
   EndSubSection
```I don't know what Viewport is, but I had my backup handy in case it didn't work.  :)  Now I'm rediscovering that this monitor twitches in places at resolutions higher than 800x600. *sigh*  Oh well.  It's useable!  Hope this code snippet maybe helps someone else with this trouble down the line.

---

### Post by RedRat on 2009-08-27
> **SydneyGB said:**
> I managed to solve this problem on my install by changing the Screen part of my xorg.conf to match the one that works in VirtualBox:

```
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport    0 0
        Depth    24
        Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
   EndSubSection
```I don't know what Viewport is, but I had my backup handy in case it didn't work.  :)  Now I'm rediscovering that this monitor twitches in places at resolutions higher than 800x600. *sigh*  Oh well.  It's useable!  Hope this code snippet maybe helps someone else with this trouble down the line.

While it might be a case of a buggy video driver another possibility might be the settings for your monitor. You might want to see what refresh rates you monitor settings have, they may be set too high or low.

---

### Post by stanwang on 2009-08-27
You better used the latest version of Ubuntu 9.04, you may download at [http://ubuntu.com](http://ubuntu.com)

---

