---
title: "Trouble getting online using gnome-ppp dialer and aircard (USB720)"
date: 2008-10-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by swarup on 2008-10-13
I have used the gnome-ppp dialer software together with the USB720 aircard on several different laptop and desktop computers in Hardy, but for some reason tonite I can't get it to work on this friend's computer. Trying to set it up for her. 

Here is the output I get once I set up the gnome-ppp dialer, hook up the aircard, and try to go online. Can someone interpret for me what is going wrong:

```
--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
--> Cannot get information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT999
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L3DT999
NO ANSWER
--> No Answer.  Trying again.
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT999
--> Waiting for carrier.
--> Timed out while dialing.  Trying again.
--> Maximum Attempts Exceeded..Aborting!!
--> Disconnecting at Mon Oct 13 15:41:02 2008
```

---

### Post by niteshifter on 2008-10-13
Hi,

The dialing command looks a bit weird, it's legal AT syntax but it's unusual:
AT - Get modem's attention
M1 - Speaker on <--- odd usage for aircards / cell phones.
L3 - Loud volume <--- odd, as above.
D - Dial
T - Touch tone

Typically for modems connecting to the cellular network that command is ATDT followed by a "special" phone number - special in the sense that tells both phone and tower a data link is being requested. For example, I connect frequently via cell phone. I don't use gnome-ppp, instead I use wvdial directly and when I connect I see:
```
ATDT*99***1#
```
where *99***1# is the "phone number". The number you'll need to use will most likely be different. FWIW, most setups I've seen for cellular connects preface the number digits with either a * or a # symbol. Try your number with one of those symbols.

If that doesn't get you anywhere then post wvdial's and gnome-ppp's configuration files, please.

gnome-ppp sets up wvdial, which uses a .conf file. IIRC, gnome-ppp doesn't do "system-wide" configuration for wvdial, it constructs a .conf file for wvdial in:
```
/home/<user>/wvdial.conf
OR
/home/<user>/.wvdial/wvdial.conf
```

Plain old wvdial (run from the command line) will use:
/etc/wvdial.conf

gnome-ppp also has it's own .conf file which is placed in /home/<user>

---

