---
title: "10.04 - suddenly, ATI video problems?? (gasp!!)"
date: 2010-09-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-09-03
I've read a lot about people having problems with ATI drivers since ATI quit including some of the older cards in their drivers.  I have an ATI 9250 Pro (radeon) in my desktop, and it's worked for the most part great with what I assume must be the open drivers (ubuntu just loads the radeon driver for me).  I've had occasional little problems, most notably the screen width just blinking in and out once in a while (never does on - gasp again! - Windows).

Today, however, a new problem has occured.  I have various small horizontal lines of varying lengths and varying colors all over the screen.  Nothing is bad when I'm at the desktop with that default purple screen (brings back some hazy memories from the late 60's and into the 70's).  Open a game - the lines are there.  Open Firefox - the lines are there.  It makes the screen a little difficult to read.  Thinking that perhaps the card was for some reason going bad, I booted back to Windows, but there are no problems in Windows.  This leads me to think either the driver went a little weird or something else got corrupted somehow in ubuntu that affects my screen.

Outside of changing video cards, anyone have any ideas on what to try?

Thanks in advance!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Cypress421 on 2010-09-03
Try the proprietary drivers or compile ATI drivers from the source.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2010-09-03
> **Cypress421 said:**
> Try the proprietary drivers or compile ATI drivers from the source.
 
 
Don't do this as proprietary drivers for your card won't work in 10.04.
 
if you used proprietary in 9.10 (or older version) and then upgraded i would suggets to either remove those or do a clean install of 10.04.

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2010-09-03
HI anewguy

Probably OSS growing pains,r200 cards cards didn't get as much love as newer cards.
Have you tried fresher stack from xorg crack pushers
[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive)

I looked in reported bugs for r200 and found nothing you described, please report a bug.

Sharky

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-09-03
Well, back when I installed 10.04, I did what I normally do when there is a new release:  save what I need, then blow away the old installation and install the new release as a completely new install, so nothing would be residual from 9.10 or prior.

Don't think I can/or need to compile a driver from source - the driver is built in to ubuntu and the driver from ATI doesn't support my card anymore.

And for an update:  must have been something strange, as I rebooted to Windows and all was fine, so eventually I booted back to Ubuntu and all was fine again.  I guess you never know about those stray electrons (or perhaps ions from a solar flare?) ;)

Thanks for the suggestions!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-09-03
> **Cypress421 said:**
> Try the proprietary drivers or compile ATI drivers from the source.

This is the ABT subforum; you shouldn't be giving tech advice here unless you know what you're talking about -- because folks in this forum will tend to simply do what you tell them.

In this case, your advice is really BAD.  Not only would forcing the install of proprietary drivers trash the OP's display, they would then have to go through a LOT of work to remove those drivers and replace them with the ones they already have --  the ONLY ones that will work with their card and current versions of Ubuntu.

Next time, do a little research before your offer tech advice in this forum. OK?

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-09-03
+1 

there should be a possibility to delete or report those instructions since
it nearly is a "malicious command".
Think this (ridiculous or simply wrong tech support ) is growing in the past...

---

### Post by Nytram on 2010-09-03
> **anewguy said:**
> And for an update:  must have been something strange, as I rebooted to Windows and all was fine, so eventually I booted back to Ubuntu and all was fine again.  I guess you never know about those stray electrons (or perhaps ions from a solar flare?) ;)


I had similar problems with my 9200 when I installed 10.04, also the problem was intermittent every so often it worked flawlessy. I decided to remove the card and use the built-in video, but I was offered an xorg.conf file that might help.

If you would like to try it, the thread is here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1527679]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1527679")

---

### Post by Alexis Phoenix on 2010-09-04
> I've had occasional little problems, most notably the screen width just blinking in and out once in a while (never does on - gasp again! - Windows).
I really don't see the need for this rather sarcastic expression of surprise. Of course it works properly on Windows, ATI are firmly locked into Windows, their support for Linux is flaky at best, and (last time I checked, so apologies if this statement is incorrect) they won't support the developer community who give us the free drivers to ensure everything works correctly.  ATI support on Linux has always been problematic, and unless they change their ways drastically, it probably always will be.  The long and the short of it - don't buy ATI.  I suppose I'm pushing my luck saying don't buy AMD either, since it's part of the same company now, but what the heck, I'm (gasp!!) annoyed.

---

### Post by Cypress421 on 2010-09-05
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> This is the ABT subforum; you shouldn't be giving tech advice here unless you know what you're talking about -- because folks in this forum will tend to simply do what you tell them.
 
In this case, your advice is really BAD. Not only would forcing the install of proprietary drivers trash the OP's display, they would then have to go through a LOT of work to remove those drivers and replace them with the ones they already have -- the ONLY ones that will work with their card and current versions of Ubuntu.
 
Next time, do a little research before your offer tech advice in this forum. OK?
 
If they were using open drivers, then hardware drivers shouldn't present a problem, and if they wanted to compile from source they would ask more questions in another forum. *OK?*

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2010-09-05
> **Alexis Phoenix said:**
> I really don't see the need for this rather sarcastic expression of surprise. Of course it works properly on Windows, ATI are firmly locked into Windows, their support for Linux is flaky at best, and (last time I checked, so apologies if this statement is incorrect) they won't support the developer community who give us the free drivers to ensure everything works correctly.  ATI support on Linux has always been problematic, and unless they change their ways drastically, it probably always will be.  The long and the short of it - don't buy ATI.  I suppose I'm pushing my luck saying don't buy AMD either, since it's part of the same company now, but what the heck, I'm (gasp!!) annoyed.

Well they do appear to have changed their ways to some degree and certainly they have released info to help the OSS devs. They even have staffers who help out with questions over on the Phoronix forums. Also if you have one of the newer cards that are still supported then their binary blob driver fglrx has improved significantly over the last eighteen months since I first started using it. For now I am prepared to give them the benefit of the doubt.

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2010-09-05
> **Cypress421 said:**
> If they were using open drivers, then hardware drivers shouldn't present a problem, and if they wanted to compile from source they would ask more questions in another forum. *OK?*

Actually they would present a big problem for a newbie. If you try to use fglrx on a system with an unsupported card then X will fail to start.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-09-05
> **Cypress421 said:**
> If they were using open drivers, then hardware drivers shouldn't present a problem, and if they wanted to compile from source they would ask more questions in another forum. *OK?*

In another forum, like General or Video, I would probably say OK.

But here in ABT, you get the very new people -- who generally do not know bad advice when they see it.  Had they followed your advice and forced the installation of an fglrx driver, they would have trashed their display and been forced to spend a LOT of time trying to get a working desktop back.

Here in ABT, we HAVE to be more cautious about providing advice that can possibly harm their environment.

So, NO, it's not OK!

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-09-05
this comes from cheese

&#8195;The video is sluggish/has a slow response. What can I do?


      You may have set "ximagesink" ("X Window System (No Xv)") as video-output.
      This means, that your cpu is doing all the work. Change it to "xvimagesink"
      ("X Window System (X11/XShm/Xv)") in order to let your graphics card do the work.
    


      To change the settings, run "gstreamer-properties", click the Video tab
      and change the appropriate settings.
    
5.2.&#8195;I have a Mac with iSight and a ATI graphics card, and the colors are weird.


      This is a problem with the ATI graphics card, though there is a work around.
      Change the video-output to custom and insert the following: "ffmpegcolorspace !
      video/x-raw-yuv,format=(fourcc)YV12 ! ffmpegcolorspace ! xvimagesink".
    


      To change the settings, run "gstreamer-properties", click the Video tab
      and select custom from the drop down menu.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-09-07
> **Alexis Phoenix said:**
> I really don't see the need for this rather sarcastic expression of surprise. Of course it works properly on Windows, ATI are firmly locked into Windows, their support for Linux is flaky at best, and (last time I checked, so apologies if this statement is incorrect) they won't support the developer community who give us the free drivers to ensure everything works correctly.  ATI support on Linux has always been problematic, and unless they change their ways drastically, it probably always will be.  The long and the short of it - don't buy ATI.  I suppose I'm pushing my luck saying don't buy AMD either, since it's part of the same company now, but what the heck, I'm (gasp!!) annoyed.

If (gasp!!) you are bothered by my attempts to just keep things light, don't bother to reply.  FYI - the info in your reply is, at least to me, very old news, and does *NOTHING* to solve anyone's problems.  If someone already HAS a particular brand of hardware, telling them not to buy it is arcane.  Don't post unless you can offer some HELPFUL advice to solve a problem.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-09-07
> **Cypress421 said:**
> If they were using open drivers, then hardware drivers shouldn't present a problem, and if they wanted to compile from source they would ask more questions in another forum. *OK?*

*YOU* are the one who suggested compiling the drivers from source.  As I already mentioned, and as others have mentioned, this is BAD advice for my card.  Do some research first before posting.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-09-08
Well, the problem has re-occured.  I don't have anything like the screen shot someone included earlier, but the random modification of pixels makes some things difficult to read.

What's strange is that I didn't have the problem in the past - and I've been using this card for several years now.  Didn't even have the problem with 10.04 until just very recently.  I suspect perhaps the driver, especially if it was updated and included in one of the automatic updates recently.

Thanks everyone!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-09-08
> **anewguy said:**
> Well, the problem has re-occured.  I don't have anything like the screen shot someone included earlier, but the random modification of pixels makes some things difficult to read...

Sorry, don't have one of the newer ATI cards and am stuck with a "legacy" card, so I can't provide any real details that will help you.

I have noticed, following the ATI drivers threads, the the driver quality situation seems to have gone from bad to worse.  Some have said that 10.6 is the last "good" driver that AMD produced; others go farther back than that.

If you want to closely follow their driver antics, suggest you go over to the Phoronix forums.  They do a LOT of detailed testing and analysis of the ATI drivers.  They might have some hints that will help fix your problem.

---

### Post by TwelveGauge on 2010-09-08
The newest ATI drivers won't work with cards that aren't Fire GLs or HD radeons...the standard drivers that Ubuntu downloads are what ATI has said to use. 
 
Check their websites for a list of cards compatable with the drivers.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-09-08
As mentioned, it's a 9250 Pro, which comes up as radeon.  The new drivers won't work with it since it is a legacy card.  So far it's just been the built-in open driver in Ubuntu.  That's why I was curious if perhaps something changed in open driver and it was redelivered in the last week or two.  I'm not sure how I'd go about checking that.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Alexis Phoenix on 2010-09-10
Anewguy - I publicly and unreservedly apologise for my earlier outburst - it was just one of those things that gets my goat.  Anyways, I came back on here because I only just found out about ATI's recent cooperation with the OSS community, so I'm sorry I gave out bad information too.

Re-reading your original post, it occurs to me that (if you're using Gnome or KDE) you could try disabling desktop effects, if they are turned on, since you get these lines only when running an application it's possible it's an artefact of the 3d driver. I know it's not a solution, and it defeats the object of having a high-end card (well, higher than my little Xpress 200M), but it may help point the way if it does have an effect.  Also, you could try a different desktop environment without so many bells and whistles, such as LXDE or even JWM, and see what happens.

Also, there is a manual page for the radeon driver```
man radeon
```which explains most of the options you can have in the xorg.conf file - some of them have to be set a certain way for specific cards, so it's worth having a look at that.

If you have been upgrading Ubuntu rather than doing fresh installs, it's also worth while backing up your xorg.conf file and creating a new one. Xorg makes it easy now.```
cd /etc/X11/
sudo mv xorg.conf xorg.conf.old
sudo Xorg -configure      # note the capital X

```I did this after the mess left by the changes to configuring stuff using hal and then back again and it gave me a lovely clean xorg.conf with a whole load of new radeon options to play with.

Hope this helps, and once again, apologies for earlier.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-09-12
Thanks for the nice reply!

I'm going to take a look at the man page (it never occurred to me there would be one, so thank you!).  I have done clean installs with each new release, so I *hope* I'm ok there.  Tried running with no effects but still get the little lines (they are short and look to be a pixel tall).  I like the idea you said of artifacts, because I haven't had to deal with that for years but it is indeed what it looks like.

Again, thanks for the help!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by megamanexent on 2010-09-26
Hey, do you think a kernel upgrade might help? I'm running an ATI redeon xpress 200 card and was experiencing those lines. Then i upgraded to the linux-image-2.6.33-020633-generic kernel and they went away. 

I wrote this up on another thread so:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475045&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475045&page=3) 
post #25

Not sure it will help because some people stated it didn't help, but unlike the proprietary drivers, this is easily reversible as long as you don't delete your current kernel. So it won't hurt to try. But, to be safe, if your grub install doesn't automatically wait before loading an OS, learn how to manually chose them or set it to BEFORE doing **anything** (But you dual-boot, why I am I telling you this?)

---

