---
title: "8.10 Wireless"
date: 2009-02-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Ayetach on 2009-02-15
Hey I'm facing a lot of challenges with this 8.10 build. As the title suggests its wireless internet problems. I have sifted through the countless posts on this forum to pinpoint the exact problem and its remedy. Turns out that I have the Broadcom BCM4318. This particular model had "b43-fwcutter" files to help Linux recognize the hardware. Well I have followed the instructions extracting, building, and then installing. After rebooting I checked to see if I had any results. To my dismay it still didn't see any wireless networks. So then I typed in "Sudo lshw -C network" to see what I could find, and this is what turned up regarding that particular hardware...

*-network:1
     description: Network controller

     product: BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller
     vendor: Broadcom Corporation
     physical id: 3
     bus info: pci@0000:0b:03.0
     version: 02
     width: 32 bits
     clock: 33MHz
     capabilities: bus_master
     configuration: driver=b43-pci-bridge latency=64 module=ssb

...maybe this isn't enough to help remedy the problem. But I would really like to fix this issue so that I can update programs and start using Linux. If anyone can help point me into the right direction then I'd really appreciate it. :)

---

### Post by johnjohn2 on 2009-02-15
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/TitleIndex](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/TitleIndex)

and search there matey

Regards John

---

### Post by greenubu on 2009-02-15
I just sweated through what you are doing.  This is my first install on a new computer.  I couldnt get mine to work.  I started with 6.04 install with a netgear pci card.  It did not work so I assumed it was the card.  I returned it a tried a Linksys usb adapter with no luck.  So I was advised to try and install the later version 8.10.  I did that and it started no problem.  You can try and install that driver, but I would rather just try another wireless device that is recognized without the drivers.

---

### Post by Immolatus on 2009-02-16
OP, you should try having a look in the "Dell support" section of the forum. I say this because Dell uses Broadcom 43x wifi cards alot. The one in my lappy for instance is a BCM 43x card. I had to use ndiswrapper every time until 8.10 when they finally included the driver out of the box. I'd have a look there. Good luck!

---

### Post by Ayetach on 2009-02-16
> **Immolatus said:**
> OP, you should try having a look in the "Dell support" section of the forum. I say this because Dell uses Broadcom 43x wifi cards alot. The one in my lappy for instance is a BCM 43x card. I had to use ndiswrapper every time until 8.10 when they finally included the driver out of the box. I'd have a look there. Good luck!

I'll do that, I've read that using ndiswrapper can be a bit intimidating for the new user mainly because it requires some terminal work. But then, everything I've done so far has required that (ha!). When I was reading the forums regarding the specific driver for my wireless device (BCM 4318) it was not included with 8.10 due to mainly legal matters that is why I've been stranded with figuring out this mess myself. :(

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2009-02-16
First you need to make sure you have the "b43-fwcutter" package installed and you can do that by running the following command:
```
sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter
```
Then you need to grab the XP drivers, just use Google it will be simple enough. Once you have the XP driver find the .inf file, it should be in there. Ok, now what you should do is blacklist any existing drivers so there are no conflicts, so do the following:
```
gksu gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
```
So at the end of the file, blacklist the module, not sure what it's called so for example, something like this:
```
blacklist bcm43xx
```
So now, we are going to install the driver, navigate to the driver, I'm just going to assume, you saved it to your desktop and the driver is called "driver", so do the following:
```
cd /home/ayetach/Desktop/driver
```
Once you're in the driver directory, you want to run the following:
```
sudo ndiswrapper -i driver.inf
```
Remember I'm just assuming the filename of the driver is "filename" substitute the proper information. So now the driver should be installed, but you're not quite done, you want to open the module configuration file, so run the following:
```
sudo ndiswrapper &#8211;m 
gksu gedit /etc/modules
```
At the bottom of the configuration file, just add the following:
```
ndiswrapper
```
Then save the configuration file, and then reboot your computer by running the following:
```
sudo shutdown -r now
```
Then once you have rebooted into Ubuntu your wireless card should work.

---

### Post by Ayetach on 2009-02-19
> **Codename said:**
> First you need to make sure you have the "b43-fwcutter" package installed and you can do that by running the following command:
```
sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter
```
Then you need to grab the XP drivers, just use Google it will be simple enough. Once you have the XP driver find the .inf file, it should be in there. Ok, now what you should do is blacklist any existing drivers so there are no conflicts, so do the following:
```
gksu gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
```
So at the end of the file, blacklist the module, not sure what it's called so for example, something like this:
```
blacklist bcm43xx
```
So now, we are going to install the driver, navigate to the driver, I'm just going to assume, you saved it to your desktop and the driver is called "driver", so do the following:
```
cd /home/ayetach/Desktop/driver
```
Once you're in the driver directory, you want to run the following:
```
sudo ndiswrapper -i driver.inf
```
Remember I'm just assuming the filename of the driver is "filename" substitute the proper information. So now the driver should be installed, but you're not quite done, you want to open the module configuration file, so run the following:
```
sudo ndiswrapper –m 
gksu gedit /etc/modules
```
At the bottom of the configuration file, just add the following:
```
ndiswrapper
```
Then save the configuration file, and then reboot your computer by running the following:
```
sudo shutdown -r now
```
Then once you have rebooted into Ubuntu your wireless card should work.

Codename,

    Thanks for the feedback, I installed the ndiswrapper and installed all of the updates available to the system (after hard wiring my system into the router itself). Luckily the driver became available to install and after doing so it worked! But it seems a new issue is surfacing (I could be wrong) but after selecting the network I wanted to become part of (which used encryption to access) and input the WEP (hex) as well as the WPA pre-selected key variations the connection was not made. I also tried the other available connection options but failed. Is this a known issue? If so, is there a solution to it? Thanks for any feedback you provide.

---

### Post by Ayetach on 2009-02-21
Follow up: The connection has been successfully made and maintained! Thanks everyone for your help! I don't think I would have figured it out as fast as I would have alone.

---

