---
title: "11.10 hang after install"
date: 2012-03-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by droidfellow on 2012-03-20
Hello all, was having issue install ubuntu 11.10 so I tried the alternative iso, and all went well, until after install i get a black screen, so I tried the press e at the grub screen and delete quiet slash, and put nomodeset and then hit ctr-x to reboot. Then I get the following on a black screen;

Begin: Loading essential drivers ... done.
Begin: Running /scripts/init-premount ... done.
Begin: Mounting root file system ... Begin: Running /scripts/local-top ... done
Begin: Running /scripts/local-premount ... done.
Begin: Running /scripts/local-bottom ... done

Trying to install on a generic Everex laptop with dual core inel and 1GIG with an 80 gig hard drive. 

Thanks in advance for your help.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-03-20
On the line you edited out 'quiet splash' could you add:

nomodset

... to the end and try that. If that fails, try:

acpi=no

... or:

noacpi

---

### Post by droidfellow on 2012-03-20
Sorry i forgot to put that i did put nomodeset in the place of the quiet, and plash.

I tried your suggestions in the place of the quiet and plash also with the same results.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-03-20
Boot as normal then and when you get to a cursor flashing on the black screen (presuming you do) input:

```
startx
```What happens? Post the output and/or result back here, please.

PS: Does all go well when you boot from the CD and 'Try Ubuntu'?

---

### Post by droidfellow on 2012-03-22
Ok you said boot normal I turn on the laptop, intel boot screen come up, then the grub screen, I click "ubuntu with linux" screen goes blank cursor appears, I then type startx, wait...nothing happens then after a minute or so the drive stops spinning, and screen goes completely blank. 

I also enter the "normal" ubuntu 11.10 disk, not the alternative click try "ubuntu without installing" I get the blank screen with the cursor then blank screen drive stop spinning.

I also tried the alternative cd again and it starts the install process over again.

P.S. I tried my Windows 7 disk and it boot fine, so I guess the computer is not the issue, but I don't want windows 7. Also I tried a copy of OpenSuse 12, and that hangs also. 

The specs on the laptop is an Everex 1.6 GHZ Intel core 2 duo, 80 gig drive with 1 gig of ram.

---

### Post by droidfellow on 2012-03-23
I give up. re-installing XP
My bad, didn't mean to violate any rules. All I was saying is I am going to re-install XP because the laptop I have is garbage.

---

