---
title: "11.04 doesn't see my specific wireless network"
date: 2012-03-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by flofi on 2012-03-04
[FONT=Arial]Hi,

I use Ubuntu 11.04 on a Dell Vostro 3300. A few days ago it stopped seeing only the wireless network I use, it still sees all others, and even connects to one of them (which is open). 
I have seen posts about problems with the Broadcom driver, and I have tried installing an old driver, or uninstalling all sta-broadcom ones and using b43, but in any case all other networks are visible and I can connect to the open ones, but I can't see specifically my wifi connection.

I am now connecting using a wired connection to the same network, and there is also a mac running OSX 10.6 which has no problem connecting to the wireless network. Additional information from the terminal is below, hope you can help me out with that.

Thanks.

12:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM43224 802.11a/b/g/n (rev 01)
    Subsystem: Dell Device 000e
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 17
    Memory at fbb00000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: <access denied>
    Kernel driver in use: wl
    Kernel modules: wl, brcm80211

:~$ rfkill list all
0: dell-wifi: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no
1: brcmwl-0: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no

:~$ iwlist scan
lo        Interface doesn't support scanning.

eth0      Interface doesn't support scanning.

eth1      Interface doesn't support scanning.

[/FONT]

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-03-04
The information from iwlist scan is only confirming what you already know - you do not have a wireless connection to this wireless access point.

rfkill shows that there is nothing stopping you getting a wireless connection - not a hardware switch nor a software switch such as Enable Networking or Enable wireless being disabled (unchecked).

If you can see other wireless networks then the wireless adapter is switched on and Network Manager is using it to detect those wireless networks. This would not happen is you did not have a working wireless driver.

Are you in range of the wireless access point? Try using Edit connections to delete that connection, then reboot and see if Network Manager now sees this access point.

If you run the command

```
cat /etc/network/interfaces
```

Then you will see what is in the interfaces script file.

It should be just this

> auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

Anything else will stop Network Manager from doing its stuff.

Regards.

---

### Post by flofi on 2012-03-04
Thanks, Grahammechanic.

I am in range of the wireless access point. I tried deleting the connection and rebooting but Network Manager still doesn't see the wireless network.

And when I ran the command:

cat /etc/network/interfaces

I got this:

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

Also, the other computer (Mac) here and this computer with Windows both connect to the network normally.
Any other ideas?

Thanks again.

---

### Post by MBalaman on 2012-10-25
Hello, I have the exact same problem with my Macbook 3,1. I've recently deleted Mac OS X completely and installed Ubuntu 12.10, but like flofi Ubuntu doesn't show my Wi-Fi network. I've tried manually connecting to the network but without luck. Does anyone know what may be the problem? When this laptop was still running OS X Wi-Fi was working just fine and I also have Ubuntu 12.10 installed on my iMac and that one does connect to the network without a problem.

Please help me! :$

---

### Post by kidoko on 2012-12-01
I had this same problem on 12.04. I think it was a conflict between a smartphone close by accessing the same wireless. I shut everything down including smartphone, removed power from the router, switched router back on, restarted ubuntu pc, left the smartphone off, and i could then see the wireless again

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-12-01
Closing the thread as it concerns 11.04, which is an obsolete version.

MBalaman, you should focus on getting everything to work using a wired internet connection. If you still have wirefree problems after this I recommend searching the [networking]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=336") forum.

---

