---
title: "11.04AMD64 hangs after update to kernel 2.6.38-12"
date: 2011-11-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jose-__nca on 2011-11-13
cannot boot after initial update. sys information 11.04 natty AMD64 on a  dual boot with 11.04 natty (32) on /dev/sdb1 and 11.04AMD64 on  /dev/sda1-- sda1 is a hardware 1TB raid0 array partition #1 996GB ext4  and #5 partition 3.5GB swap. Installed sys with kernel 2.6.38-8  initially boots and re-boots only problem is a distorted splash screen.  Downloaded and installed restricted Nvidia drivers booted the same.  Updated to kernel 2.6.38-12 start-up hangs after selecting sda1 on grub.  If I select sdb1 (32) that has an updated 2.6.38-12 kernel it does a  file sys check but will otherwise boot normally. Using the install disk I  was able to get a root shell on sda1. tried " grub-install /dev/sda "  and " update-grub " which did not help. Also, I was able to see what was  happening which was a kernel panic. So I believe that initrd.image or  vmlinuz is the  problem. I did a memtest just to be sure  it's not a  hardware failure. I thought at first that either file had been corrupted  during download but this is the 3rd install & update attempt with  exactly the same failure. I didn't see any bug reports about this but I  may not have looked in the right places. I tried to apt-get initrd-tools  but was unable to get the utility from either system.
1) what  repository should I list to get initrd-tools? 2) I see the  initrd.image.old from the -8 kernel. Could I use the old initrd.image?  How would I boot into sdb1 and mount my sda1 file system and open a  shell to work from?

---

