---
title: "OSX 10.4 to Ubuntu 10.04"
date: 2011-05-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by so.phis.ti.kat on 2011-05-09
I have a macbook pro and want to switch to ubuntu but i can't get the computer to boot and install it. On my personal macbook, I can't create a startup disc from the iso as I always get an error; using Disk Utilities. I was able to create a startup disc using my works macbook but unfortunately, my macbook can't read the disc?

Tips?

I a pretty new to the ubuntu world but I don't want to dual boot my machine or run it using a VM. The less Apple my macbook is, the better :-)

---

### Post by dniMretsaM on 2011-05-09
It's possible that your BIOS isn't set to boot from the CD/DVD drive.

---

### Post by Durden on 2011-05-09
Macs' don't have BIOS.

Boot up holding down the letter "c" on your keyboard to tell it to boot to the CD. Or hold down the "Option" key and select the CD when it comes up on the screen.

---

### Post by dniMretsaM on 2011-05-10
> **Durden said:**
> Macs' don't have BIOS.

Boot up holding down the letter "c" on your keyboard to tell it to boot to the CD. Or hold down the "Option" key and select the CD when it comes up on the screen.

Oh, didn't know that. Total Mac n00b here.

---

### Post by stchman on 2011-05-10
> **Durden said:**
> Macs' don't have BIOS.

Boot up holding down the letter "c" on your keyboard to tell it to boot to the CD. Or hold down the "Option" key and select the CD when it comes up on the screen.

Macs have a BIOS, they just call them an EFI (Extensible Firmware Interface).  EFIs serve the same purpose as a BIOS such as boot order.

---

### Post by so.phis.ti.kat on 2011-05-16
For some reason, I can't create one from my own macbook. My macbook also couldn't recognize the boot disc from the one I created on another macbook. I finally move to Ubuntu 10.10 after I used a disc that someone else created.

I never found a solution as to why mind didn't work. I tried slow speeds and other tips but no dice.

The good news is that I'm Ubuntu 10.10 now.

---

### Post by Durden on 2011-05-16
> **stchman said:**
> Macs have a BIOS, they just call them an EFI (Extensible Firmware Interface).  EFIs serve the same purpose as a BIOS such as boot order.

Just because something serves a similar purpose doesn't mean it is the same thing. EFi is NOT the same as BIOS, especially for the purposes of this discussion.

---

### Post by Opie Wick on 2011-05-16
It is really important/advisable to keep at least a very very small (10Gb or so) Mac OS X partition for the sole purpose of getting and applying some firmware updates. I run Ubuntu 10.04 exclusively on a MBP4,1 and have a Mac OS X partition that I boot into once every few months just to check for firmware updates.

---

### Post by stchman on 2011-05-16
> **Durden said:**
> Just because something serves a similar purpose doesn't mean it is the same thing. EFi is NOT the same as BIOS, especially for the purposes of this discussion.

Kind of like Apple's names for things that are known as something else:

iSight = Webcam
Super Drive = DVD Burner
AirPort = Wireless Router
Spaces = Multiple Desktops
Time Machine = System Backup
Time Capsule = NAS

.
.
.
EFI = BIOS

I see a pattern forming here.

---

### Post by xbobby_bobx on 2011-05-16
I don't recommend you to remove Mac OS from your Macbook entirely, Ubuntu is not a fully stable operating system and it will over heat your Macbook if you use it, ask me, many people came to ask me what to do with their laptops and the over heating, and I'm telling you, you can't fix it, Linux is designed for PCs not Macs, sorry bro, don't do that.

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-16
Apple's Mac OSX is based on BSD.

If you add the X11 Window Manager to Mac OSX, you can run your favorite Unix and Linux applications on a Mac.

---

