---
title: "out of range at login screen"
date: 2009-08-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jalvarez1029 on 2009-08-29
I just upgraded my video card to a Sapphire Radeon HD3870, when I started up I got the window saying input out of range please change settings (I was expecting this with a new card) I logged in and changed the settings and activated the proprietary drivers. However, whenever I am at the login screen I still get the out of range message, but the settings are still in effect once I log in. How do I change the settings to take effect at that splash screen? Here are the contents of my xorg.conf file. Everything seems to come down to it, but I have no idea what to change. My monitor is an HPvs19e with a native resolution of 1280x1024 and 60Hz refresh rate. Any help appreciated.

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by NoaHall on 2009-08-29
Out of Range? What is the error message exactly?

---

### Post by jalvarez1029 on 2009-08-29
It says
> [CENTER]Input out of range
please change settings to 1280 x 1024 60Hz[/CENTER]

it's an error directly from the monitor that I have seen before when first installing.

---

### Post by NoaHall on 2009-08-29
Ah, try using "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg". Then reboot and see if it happens again.

---

### Post by jalvarez1029 on 2009-08-29
I ran that and it actually made it so the monitor could't recognize the input at all and it went to sleep. I was able to go to recovery mode and the root shell and use
> aticonfig --initial -f 
to get back to original problem state.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-08-29
You could try putting 

```

        HorizSync       30-81
        VertRefresh     56-76

```

In your Monitor section. (Got the numbers from [this page]("http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?docname=c00603955&lc=en&cc=vn&product=1818007&dlc=en"))

---

### Post by jalvarez1029 on 2009-08-29
Not sure exactly where I would try putting those. The file seems to make multiple display and monitor references, but the problem isn't getting the right settings, I basically can't get it to default to those settings before I actually log in to a user account. So any time I'm not logged in to my desktop I'm getting that error. I also have discovered that I can't swith users without logging out of one then into the other, and at the login screen there is the error message again.

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-08-29
If the "out of range" message pops up **before** the login window, there's a setting in menu.lst that you might want to check. I'm not on ubuntu installation at the moment, so can't check which one it is, but if memory serves correctly it the line with#defoptions quite nospalash etc.....

edit (currently on battery power & mobile phone so want to conserve power due to a power cut temporarily knocking out my routers & modem): look for a section similar to this if you're getting the "out of range" signal prior to  the login screen appearing:
> ## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash

The relevant bit is the vga= thingy.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-08-30
> **jalvarez1029 said:**
> Not sure exactly where I would try putting those. 

See the bit where it says Section "Monitor"? That's the Monitor section.

You'd put the lines in somewhere between that line and the line that says "EndSection" below it.

I am aware of what the problem is; I did read your post you know. The problem is that the GDM login window will default to what X tells it is the highest resolution and refresh rate that your monitor can do. Unfortunately, X is mistaken in this case, and your monitor can't do what X thinks it can. So you want X's information to more accurately reflect the capabilities of your monitor.

---

