---
title: "9.04 AAC audio not playing (except mplayer)"
date: 2009-06-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Dino_ on 2009-06-13
I've been using Ubuntu for 2 years now.
Yesterday I upgraded my 8.10 to 9.04 using the dist-upgrade function.

Now I've noticed my AAC files (.m4a) won't play anymore.. Except using mplayer.
Note that the file used in this post is not corrupt!

libfaad0, gstreamer good/bad/ugly, ubuntu restricted are installed and up to date.

Totem (2.26.1 using Gstreamer 0.10.22) output:
> ** Message: no file info
** Message: Error: Bron niet gevonden.
gstfilesrc.c(1046): gst_file_src_start (): /GstPlayBin:play/GstFileSrc:source:
No such file "/home/koen/f.m4a"

Gtk-Message: (for origin information, set GTK_DEBUG): failed to retrieve property `GtkMessageDialog::use-separator' of type `gboolean' from rc file value "((GString*) 0x90db5d0)" of type `GString'

VLC 1.0.0-rc3 Output:
> 
libdvdnav: Using dvdnav version 4.1.3
libdvdread: Using libdvdcss version 1.2.10 for DVD access
libdvdread: Can't stat f.m4a
Bestand of map bestaat niet
libdvdnav: vm: failed to open/read the DVD
[0x8cfdaf8] access_file access error: cannot open file f.m4a (Bestand of map bestaat niet)
[0x89abd98] main input error: open of `f.m4a' failed: no suitable access module

Amarok 1.4.10 States "unplayable"

Songbird 1.1.2:
> (songbird-bin:18976): GStreamer-WARNING **: Failed to load plugin '/usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstffmpeg.so': /usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstffmpeg.so: undefined symbol: gst_tag_setter_reset_tags

(songbird-bin:18976): GStreamer-WARNING **: Failed to load plugin '/usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstgio.so': /usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstgio.so: undefined symbol: gst_query_set_uri

(songbird-bin:18976): GStreamer-WARNING **: Failed to load plugin '/usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstlibvisual.so': /usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstlibvisual.so: undefined symbol: gst_plugin_add_dependency_simple

(songbird-bin:18976): GStreamer-WARNING **: Failed to load plugin '/usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstgnomevfs.so': /usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstgnomevfs.so: undefined symbol: gst_query_set_uri

(songbird-bin:19027): GStreamer-WARNING **: Failed to load plugin '/usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstffmpeg.so': /usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstffmpeg.so: undefined symbol: gst_tag_setter_reset_tags

(songbird-bin:19027): GStreamer-WARNING **: Failed to load plugin '/usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstgio.so': /usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstgio.so: undefined symbol: gst_query_set_uri

(songbird-bin:19027): GStreamer-WARNING **: Failed to load plugin '/usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstlibvisual.so': /usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstlibvisual.so: undefined symbol: gst_plugin_add_dependency_simple

(songbird-bin:19027): GStreamer-WARNING **: Failed to load plugin '/usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstgnomevfs.so': /usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstgnomevfs.so: undefined symbol: gst_query_set_uri

Mplayer 1.0rc2-4.3.3  plays the file without errors!


Any help is very much appreciated. :)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-06-13
Quite a laundry list.
For vlc try opening vlc from terminal like this and then drop a .m4a into it and see.

```
vlc --reset-config --reset-plugins-cache -vv
```

Amarok needs libxine1-ffmpeg installed, ck. on that 
(how do you have 1.4 in jaunty - was it left behind in the upgrade or did you install using a ppa? (amarok 14)

for your gstreamer apps and songbird I don't use them, ck. that you have both the bad and bad multiverse and ugly and ugly multiverse plugins (4 in total

Plus the gstreamer -ffmpeg and gstreamer -gnomevfs plugins (just search gstreamer in synaptic and take a look around

---

### Post by Dino_ on 2009-06-14
Thank you very much for your reply. :)

I've installed Amarok from PPA, installing libxine1-ffmpeg did the trick!

When starting VLC with "vlc --reset-config --reset-plugins-cache -vv", I've noticed this: (Although libfaad.so.0 exists in /usr/lib/vlc/codec/)
> [0x8785140] main libvlc warning: cannot load module `/usr/lib/vlc/codec/libfaad_plugin.so' (libfaad.so.0: kan gedeeld objectbestand niet openen: Bestand of map bestaat niet)

Translation: libfaad.so.0: could not open shared objectfile: file or folder does not exist


Gstreamer bad, multiverse-bad, ugly, multiverse-ugly, ffmpeg and gnomevfs are all installed.
Totem (gstreamer) & songbird still refuse to play them.

Some more testing:

- Installed Totem using the Xine engine: played m4a files;
- SoundConverter 1.4.1 cannot decode any m4a files;

Both ask to search for a MPEG-4 AAC decoder plugin, which can not be found.

Seems a Gstreamer problem to me...
VLC not playing may be just coincidence? :s

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-06-14
Hi Dino_,

Just a side note: MPlayer probably had no problems with your AAC files as it comes with its *own* copy of faad. Yet another reason to stick with MPlayer I reckon :-).

Andrew

---

### Post by Dino_ on 2009-06-14
I'm very pleased Amarok can process my Itunes collection again. :)
I usually use Totem (gstreamer) when I only want to hear just one specific file, now I can use the xine backend for that.

The mouse-over preview in Nautilus is the only thing without a workaround now...

But this all is a little bit "hacky", it should "just work", it worked before. :s

VLC comes with it's own decode copy too, so it's rather strange it fails to decode them.

As for Mplayer, I've never been very fond of it. I only us it as last resort. ;)

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-06-14
Hi Dino_,

> **Dino_ said:**
> As for Mplayer, I've never been very fond of it. I only us it as last resort. ;)

You have cut me deeply there :-). Perhaps your experience with MPlayer may have been marred a little by the fairly lackluster default gui known as gmplayer. Although I suspect you are fairly comfortable with your *own* choice of media players, which is fair enough, perhaps one day you would consider trying the far superior gui SMPlayer? This may change your opinion of MPlayer as I am certain an investment of time in its commandline interface would as well.

All the best,

Andrew (an MPlayer fanboi!)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-06-14
Not exactly sure what your continuing isses are with gstreamer and aac, the bad plugin and libfaad0 should be enough.

To try
check your sources.list and make sure no intrepid sources are still enabled, then mark and reinstall libfaad0, the bad plugin, and see if libmp4v2-0 is installed.

to ck. sources.list
```
cat /etc/apt/sources.list
```


As far as vlc where did it come from, the jaunty repo or a ppa? I don't use either, to some extent they're all deficent. Maybe search ffmpeg  in synaptic and make sure all your libav*'s are the unstripped versions.

I might also search vlc, remove everything with vlc in the name and reinstall

The new vlc 1.0rc3 has some interesting features (the record button has possibilities), maybe find a ppa that has it and give it a try. (or build your own

search page for ubuntu ppa's
[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+ppas](https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+ppas)

If gstreamer doesn't get squared away and you want the mouse over for aac then you can try this.

```
sudo update-alternatives --config totem

```
choosing 2 will set totem-xine as default totem player, I think it also should make totem-xine the preview player. (does in my hardy

Note that the one thing that totem-gstreamer is good at is as a firefox plugin, don't know if that will affect you.

---

