---
title: "9.10 lamp"
date: 2010-03-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anatak on 2010-03-07
[http://unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/570-install-lamp-with-1-command-in-ubuntu-910](http://unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/570-install-lamp-with-1-command-in-ubuntu-910)

when I browse to //localhost/info.php
I get the message
opening info.php which is a php file
what should firefox do with this file

how can i associate php files to firefox ?
If I go to /var/www/info.php and rightclick and select firefox I get the exact same message.

help much appreciated
thank you
anatak

---

### Post by soul_rebel on 2010-03-07
The problem is not with firefox. It's with apache and php. It seems that apache is not processing the php file, but sending it as text file to firefox.

---

### Post by anatak on 2010-03-07
I restarted apache and that didn't work
I restared ubuntu still didn't work
when I did a complete shutdown it worked.

I have had the same thing happening to me when I configured the php.ini file some time ago.
restarting the services seems not good enough, rebooting also does not work. A complete shutdown does the trick.
This is a bit annoying as this brings back nightmares from windows restarting when installing something :)

Did anybody else ever experience the same thing ?

Will try to configure php ini and apache conf again on the upgraded ubuntu and will check if it happens again.

thanks for reading

---

### Post by indytim on 2010-03-07
A couple of questions:

1.  Is this a new installation or one that you had up and running successfully for some time?
2.  How ddid you install LAMP?

IndyTim

---

### Post by anatak on 2010-03-07
this is a new configuration. 
I installed lamp following these instructions

[http://unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/570-install-lamp-with-1-command-in-ubuntu-910](http://unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/570-install-lamp-with-1-command-in-ubuntu-910)

the php display problem is solved
now I am trying to configure sites-available but I can not get it to work.

I followed the instructions here
[http://linuxhelp.blogspot.com/2006/02/host-websites-on-your-local-machine.html](http://linuxhelp.blogspot.com/2006/02/host-websites-on-your-local-machine.html)

but I get the error 
you don't have permission to access / on this server

---

### Post by indytim on 2010-03-07
> but I get the error
you don't have permission to access / on this server

You will need to change the ownership and group to your user id recursively for /var/www.

To do it from the command line
```

$ sudo chown -R user1 /var/www
$ sudo chgrp -R user1 /var/www


```

Assumes that your user id is "user1".

Also, for the sake of ongoing knowledge, I recommend that whenever you resolve something that you originally posted, post back your solution.

-DataMan

---

### Post by anatak on 2010-03-07
> **anatak said:**
> 
when I did a complete shutdown it worked.


for people reading this 
My problem was solved with a shutdown and starting again.

I think I also have to change the ownership to the process that accesses the webpages.
I did this before in 9.04 but I have the impression some things are changed.

---

