---
title: "Wits End - Nvidia Driver Problem"
date: 2009-01-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by JavonR on 2009-01-14
Hey Everyone,

I'm usually able to fix most problems by searching (this community is great!), but for some reason I just can't get this one going.. I was hoping someone might be able to lend a helping hand. 

Basically, everything was fine and dandy driver wise when I decided to uninstall my current (177) nvidia drivers this morning and use nvidia's custom installer to get the latest version(180). After rebooting, ubuntu was unable to detect any of my display settings and forced a good old low graphic settings boot, I have an Nvidia 7900gt. I figured what the hey? I edited my xorg.conf to force VESA drivers as I was getting no where with the new 180 drivers, and got onto the desktop. 

Now here's my problem: I am trying to install the old 177 drivers via the System>Administration>Hardware Drivers... but I am still being forced into low graphic mode after a reboot. I've tried envyNG as well, same problem. 

Anyone able to lend some ideas on this one? Appreciate any input.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2009-01-14
The first obvious thing you should have done is backup your X, so if you backed up your X, you can use the backup of the X. I think the problem lies when you forced the VESA drivers. I'm not sure what else you did, but try the following:
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Look for the line that says something similar to this:
```
Driver          "nvidia"
```
You need to change that to the following:
```
Driver          "nv"
```
Then save the file (Ctrl+O, Enter to confirm), exit nano (Ctrl+X) and restart X:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/?dm restart
```
Remember next time you want to make any changes to your X, please make a backup:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by JavonR on 2009-01-14
Thanks for the reply,

I tried those steps, but after switching "nvidia" to "nv" I was unable to boot back into ubuntu - even in low graphics mode, I just got a black screen. I will make sure to create a backup next time, it's definitely not worth this headache! :)

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2009-01-14
Is there anyway I can see your X?
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by JavonR on 2009-01-14
Here it is, I switched it back to "nvidia" when I couldn't boot:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

---

### Post by Elfy on 2009-01-14
Also there should be a backup, if you didn't actually edit it then the installer would have done so. If you did edit it then even if you didn't do so specifically then gedit would have I think. Do a 

```
ls -al /etc/X11/xor*
```

See what there is, nvidia would have a xorg.conf.longtimestamp backup, gedit would make a xorg.conf~ or similar - you might need to view hidden files in nautilus to see that though.

---

### Post by hotweiss on 2009-01-14
Do sudo apt-get remove nvidia* and then install the 180.22 driver...

---

### Post by Abu_Dayya on 2009-01-14
Try to remove the 180.22 driver using the nvidia installer
```
sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-180.22-pkg1.run --uninstall
```

Then install the 177 driver again.


I just recently had similar [problem]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1035914"). It might help you

---

### Post by BGFG on 2009-01-14
I also had a lot of trouble getting the 180.** driver to work. in my case the 177.** was still loaded in the kernel and clashed with the 180. the driver installation does not seem to remove the previous version properly. Here is some info i found on these forums and others that got me up and running.

TO INSTALL NVIDIA:
1 ctrl alt f1
2 sudo etc/init.d/gdm stop
3 cd Desktop (where i had my file saved)
4 sudo sh ./nvidia....-linux.run
5 sudo etc/init.d/gdm start

(At this point you should get back into GDM normally, but if not....)

6 sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg (should give a functional desktop)

At this point i too was unable to get nvidia functional on my system, but using the instructions below, I sorted it out. Essentially you need to remove all traces of nvidia from your system first, then use the custom installer. 
So use synaptic to remove all things nvidia from your system to begin with, then follow the instructions below.

1) Locate and uninstall your distro NVIDIA drivers (You can list drivers using these commands: "dpkg -l | grep -i nvidia" (Debian/Ubuntu) OR in RPM based distro: "rpm -qa | grep -i nvidia")
2) Uninstall NVIDIA drivers (e.g. ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86-180.18-pkg0.run --uninstall)
3) Locate and remove all nvidia.ko files in /lib/modules (IMPORTANT!)

4) Reinstall NVIDIA drivers (back to top...:))

---

### Post by JavonR on 2009-01-14
Bah.. still no luck, thats for the tips so far guys.

---

### Post by JavonR on 2009-01-14
> **Abu_Dayya said:**
> Try to remove the 180.22 driver using the nvidia installer
```
sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-180.22-pkg1.run --uninstall
```

Then install the 177 driver again.


I just recently had similar [problem]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1035914"). It might help you

I seemed to miss this reply..

I gave the uninstall a shot, then I went back into gnome and re-installed the 177 drivers via the System>administration>hardware drivers. However, now when I try and boot up I still get put into basic graphic mode with an error 

"Failed to load type 1 module"

Any Ideas?

---

### Post by Abu_Dayya on 2009-01-14
Check if your xorg file has the 'nvidia' driver. not 'nv'.

---

### Post by JavonR on 2009-01-14
> **Abu_Dayya said:**
> Check if your xorg file has the 'nvidia' driver. not 'nv'.

It is indeed displaying "nvidia"

---

### Post by JavonR on 2009-01-14
Well, I went back into the "Hardware Drivers" section and noticed that the 177 driver wasn't showing as being activated, even though I specified it before. I selected it, did a reboot, and now get a different error message:

Your screen, graphics card, and input device settings could not be detected correctly.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2009-01-14
When you get the error "**Failed to load type 1 module**" open up your X, and do the following and see if it makes a difference:
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Look for the line that says the following:
```
Section "Module"
Load "glx"
EndSection
```
Try to replace the following, and see if you get any luck:
```
Load           "type1"
```
So for example, it would like this:
```
Section "Module"
Load "type1"
EndSection
```
So see if that changes anything, if that doesn't work please post back.

---

### Post by hotweiss on 2009-01-15
> **JavonR said:**
> Well, I went back into the "Hardware Drivers" section and noticed that the 177 driver wasn't showing as being activated, even though I specified it before. I selected it, did a reboot, and now get a different error message:

Your screen, graphics card, and input device settings could not be detected correctly.

For some reason you cannot install the hardware drivers like that.

Do > sudo apt-get remove nvidia* and download the 177.82 drivers from Nvidia.

---

### Post by JavonR on 2009-01-18
Well, after coming back with a fresh mind after a couple days I finally got it working. I probably did a few unneccesary steps, but whatever.. worked for me. 

1) Remove all activated drivers from system>admin>hardware drivers
2) sudo apt-get remove nvidia* in terminal
3) ctr+alt+f2
4) sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
5) sudo sh NVIDIA180driver.run --uninstall, this give me a message that there was no nvidia drivers installed, I only did this just to confirm that everything nvidia was gone :)
6) sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start , this caused everything to glitch out - I needed to revert to vesa drivers.
7) ctr+alt+f2 
8) sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf, Under devices I put in
Driver       "vesa"
9) ctr+alt+f7 to get back into gnome, I was working with vesa drivers.
10) Open up synaptic and search for nvidia, I installed everything nvidia 180 related.
11) Activated the nvidia drivers under System>Admin>Hardware drivers
12) ctrl+alt+f2
13) sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
14) sudo nvidia-xconfig
15) sudo /etc/init./gdm start

16) - BINGO :D

---

### Post by ihatecellphones0516 on 2009-01-18
I have the same low graphics mode problem with 177 and 180.  I've tried putting them on from fresh installs.  Are there any existing nvidia references that i should get rid of?

---

