---
title: "10.04 NBR Eee PC 1005HA (fn Volume Control)"
date: 2011-11-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cbanakis on 2011-11-05
Been struggling with setting up the perfect netbook remix on my Eee PC.

I have everything perfect including using custom icons, hardware control, ect.

I cannot figure out how to get the volume keys working.

Ive tried all the solutions I can find...

It looks like the general consensus is that this works.
But apparently not for me?
[FONT=monospace]
[/FONT]> **kevinp93 said:**
> [I][B][I]Hi!
[/I][/B][FONT=Arial]
Try these steps.[/FONT]
1)  Open terminal and type  [/I]```
sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```[I]
2)  enter password
3) add [/I]```
acpi_osi=Linux
``` to  ```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT
```,  so that it will look like:  ```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash  acpi_osi=Linux"
```4)  save file
5) open terminal again, and type ```
sudo update-grub
```6) restart the machine
7) use hotkeys  :smile:

I  followed those steps on my EEE1005HA, and everything worked. Just  have  to find a way to ensure dialog boxes come up stating what has been  done  (e.g. Volume muted).

does anyone have any ideas?

is there something I am missing?

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2011-11-06
Well, I'm not sure if I would consider this as "Solved"

But somehow I did something, that made the on-screen slider for the brightness stop working, but now everything, including the volume works perfectly.

So to recap...

Custom Icons (Check)
Wifi printer/scanner  (Check)
Ms Office  (Check)
Photoshop  (Check)
Every function key working  (Check)

On screen display of brightness level (WHO CARES, I can see how bright my screen is)

Thanks for listening.

I plan to use remastersys to use my setup to build a custom backup for myself.
(So I never have to go through this again)

Would be a shame for all this time to only go to me.

If anyone wants to save some time setting up their Eee with 10.04 NBR, feel free to PM me.

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2011-11-06
1 more question...

How do I mark this as solved?

Or should I?

Since its not exactly solved.

---

