---
title: ".tar.gz _ how to install...."
date: 2009-06-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by saikat_tapu on 2009-06-07
[B][COLOR=Red]hi friends,
how can i install *.tar.gz files.

please help me.
[/COLOR][/B]

---

### Post by Nythain on 2009-06-07
what are you trying to install... is it a program from source, a gtk2 theme, a large collection of music... tar.gz is just a compressed file... you'll have to give us more info

---

### Post by Steelmourne on 2009-06-07
[FONT=Book Antiqua][SIZE=2]First check if the software is in synaptic but if it isn't, move the folder to your home folder. Then open up terminal and type 
[/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Book Antiqua][SIZE=2]tar xzvf "tarballname".tar.gz replacing the name with the name of the 
downloaded file. Then type cd to move to the folder you extracted, then type ./configure 
followed by make install. This provides more info

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompilingEasyHowTo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompilingEasyHowTo)

Just use your home folder for extraction not usr/scr/bin
[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by jonobr on 2009-06-07
To extract that file you can either right click on the file and select extract to here,
or using a terminal window,

type 
gunzip <filename>.tar.gz

tar -xvf filename.tar

This will uncompact the whole thing,

however, as Nythain says, you need to know what you are going to do with the uncompressed file when done.

In the windows world you have a zip file which you unzip.
You then need to find an msi or exe to run.

the same is true here, you need to know what you need to do with the uncompacted ,uncompressed file

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-06-07
A .tar.gz file is just a compressed archive. It can contain anything that gets put into it. It might contain a GTK theme, a precompiled program, some source code, or a picture of my Uncle Robin's hairpiece.

Before following any advice here on using the contents of this file, you must tell us what it contains. Is it source code for a program? Does it contain the program itself? Does it contain instructions for how to use the contents? If it does contain instructions, what happens when you follow the instructions?

---

