---
title: "fix refresh rate"
date: 2008-12-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jake43025 on 2008-12-14
iam trying too fix the refresh rate on my sony trinitron multiscan 200es in ubuntu 8.10.its set at 60hz,and it wont go upto the 85hz like in windows.here is a picture of the manual with the different refresh rates.

[http://i36.tinypic.com/11hxg82.jpg]("http://i36.tinypic.com/11hxg82.jpg")

here is my xorg.conf file.could someone tell me what too add to it to make it work?thanks







# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by anewguy on 2008-12-14
Haven't done it in a while, but I believe the syntax would be:

In the monitor section, add the following after the identifier line:

HorizSync 31.5-68.7
VertRefresh 60-85

in the screen section, add the following after the monitor line:

  DefaultDepth  24
  SubSection "Display"
    Depth   24
    Modes   "12280x1024", "1024x768", "800x600", "640x480"


It has been a while so I may have made a mistake in syntax.  If you search the web via Yahoo! or Google and look for xorg.conf definitions or xorg.conf specifications I believe you will pull up all kinds of resources to look at.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by jake43025 on 2008-12-14
i tried too edit it that way,then i restarted and the its said something about a parse error.iam not sure what i did wrong.

---

### Post by unutbu on 2008-12-14
Open a terminal and type:```

gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Edit your xorg.conf to look like this. (Replace the equivalent sections)

```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier "Configured Monitor"
	Option "DPMS"
	[COLOR="Red"]HorizSync 30-85
	VertRefresh 50-85[/COLOR]
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Monitor "Configured Monitor"
	Device "Configured Video Device"
	SubSection 	"Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection


```
Look in your manual to see if HorizSync and VertRefresh rate ranges are given. 
Replace the above HorizSync and VertRefresh ranges with what you find.

---

### Post by jake43025 on 2008-12-14
i tried it both times,but everytime is says "error/problem parsing the file"do you think my monitor is just too old for ubuntu?this is the only one i have right now too use.

---

### Post by unutbu on 2008-12-14
Please post your edited xorg.conf.
X can be rather persnickety; the error message is saying there is a syntax error in the file. At this point, it does not suggest there is any problem with the monitor.

---

### Post by jake43025 on 2008-12-14
ok,ill post it in about 5 mins.

---

### Post by jake43025 on 2008-12-14
i cant post it cause after i restart it thats when it starts messing up.this is how i have it before i do the restart.

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier "Configured Monitor"
	Option "DPMS"
	HorizSync 30-85
	VertRefresh 50-85
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Monitor "Configured Monitor"
	Device "Configured Video Device"
	SubSection 	"Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

all the refresh rates i read in the picture i have are weird.i always run my screen resolution in windows xp at "1024X768" cause anything higher,doesnt look too good.the picture says for horizontal to be at 31.5 to 64.0 khz.i just had it setup too what you said.

---

### Post by unutbu on 2008-12-14
What happens if you take out the 
```

Option "DPMS"
``` 

line and change the Modes line to
```

Modes "1024x768"
```?

Save the file, and then log out. Log back in. (This will make X re-read the xorg.conf file. Is this how you've been doing it?)

---

### Post by jake43025 on 2008-12-14
i think i have just been restarting it,to reset the settings.ill try that out and see what happens.

---

### Post by jake43025 on 2008-12-14
wow...it finally works now!:p i just took off the Option "DPMS" and changed the mode lines and finally got too change the refresh rate.it goes upto 85hz now.thank you so much.i think ill back up my xorg.conf file just in case something happens.eventually ill get a new pc so it will automatically detect it.thanks for everyones help.

---

