---
title: "How to use gzip on stdout?"
date: 2008-09-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mitch1710 on 2008-09-04
Does anyone know how I can use gzip to zip a large log file on the file.

My simulation is currently logging a large file that I need for analysis at a later point. However the files are so huge that I may even run out of disk space. The content is mainly text so when compressed the files are smaller... I would like to gzip on the fly without having to dump it to a file and then create the archive.

Any suggetions?

I guess this is a Unix question and I am not sure if this is the right forum to be posting the question... any suggetions on the right forum to post the ques is appreciated.

---

### Post by Pro-reason on 2008-09-04
I'm not exactly sure what you're trying to do.

You can't use *gzip* on stdout; you can only use it on stdin.  You _can_ output to stdout, and all you have to do to enable that is use the &#8220;-c&#8221; switch.

Perhaps if you explained in a little bit more detail what you want to do, I could tell you the exact command.

BTW, for large files, another compression method such as *bzip2* or *lzma* will yield better compression.  If speed is important, then *lzop* might be the best choice.

---

### Post by Pro-reason on 2008-09-04
OK, I'm going to give an example.

Let's imagine that the log file that you want is generated by the command *dmesg*.

You could log this with the following command:

```

dmesg > dmesg.log

```

However, the file would be large.

Any of the following commands will make it smaller:

```

dmesg | gzip  -vc > dmesg.log.gz
dmesg | bzip2 -vc > dmesg.log.bz2
dmesg | lzma  -vc > dmesg.log.lzma
dmesg | lzop  -vc > dmesg.log.lzo

```

I hope you can adapt that to work with whatever it is you are trying to do exactly.

---

### Post by Rolcol on 2008-09-04
gzip by itself automatically compresses the stdin to stdout so no need to add the -c flag.  Just have the log piped into gzip like Pro-reason has shown you.  You can compress better by adding the --best (or -9) flag.  For speed, add the --fast (or -1) slag.


My favorite use of gzip:
```

dd if=/dev/sda bs=1M | gzip --fast > hd-image.gz
#or
dd if=/dev/sda bs=1M | gzip --fast | split --bytes=4MB -a 3 - hd-image.gz
```

[quote=the man page of gzip] If no files are specified, or if
       a file name is "-", the standard input is compressed  to  the  standard
       output.  [/quote]

---

