---
title: "10.04 LTS: Lethal Lynx?"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by KatDaddy on 2010-05-05
I like Ubuntu, and have used it on and off since Edgy.  So today, I followed the upgrade prompt to 10.04 Lucid and it KILLED MY COMPUTER!  I get the mfg. splash screen, BIOS screen, and Ubuntu splash screen...then nothin'.  Lots and lots of nothin'.  Two hours worth of nothin'.  Tried a hard reboot: nothin'.  No boot scroll, no terminal.  So for now, I'm sticking with Karmic, which works just fine (though now I have to reinstall and reset everything; thank goddess this is not a mission-critical machine).  I know that this will get dealt with in due time, as Ubuntu community has always been top 10% for responsiveness.

Details:
IBM ThinkPad R50e (Lenovo)
Celeron 1.5gb
1.1 gb RAM
40gb HD
Upgraded via web

---

### Post by yeats on 2010-05-05
If you upgraded, you should be able to boot into an alternate (older) kernel from GRUB, which might allow you to get into a normal session.  From there you can look at logs to see what's going on.  I had a similar issue and this helped me:

[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-fix-ubuntu-10-04-lts-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-fix-ubuntu-10-04-lts-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup.html)

---

### Post by madjr on 2010-05-05
and just in case

[http://blog.ibeentoubuntu.com/2010/05/unscrewing-your-failed-ubuntu-1004.html](http://blog.ibeentoubuntu.com/2010/05/unscrewing-your-failed-ubuntu-1004.html)

---

### Post by AlexanderDGreat on 2010-05-05
@chrissharp123 - thanks bookmarked it.

My Lucid installation problems only fell under these 2:

1. grub
2. video card

Grub - because I'm using a hardware raid, apparently no matter how hard I try, Lucid won't let me install on my host hardware raid0 setup - so I just used software raid0, I'm happy ever since. Video card - because of faulty drivers and xorg configs.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-05-06
> **KatDaddy said:**
> ...it KILLED MY COMPUTER! 

It didn't kill your computer, it just doesn't work on your machine.

---

### Post by devilized on 2010-05-14
> **AlexanderDGreat said:**
> @chrissharp123 - thanks bookmarked it.

My Lucid installation problems only fell under these 2:

1. grub
2. video card

Grub - because I'm using a hardware raid, apparently no matter how hard I try, Lucid won't let me install on my host hardware raid0 setup - so I just used software raid0, I'm happy ever since. Video card - because of faulty drivers and xorg configs.

I've had the exact same two problems. I first tried to install 10.04 directly, but couldn't because of RAID0 issues (even with the alternate cd). Then tried to install 9.10, and upgrade to 10.04 but Nvidia support was shoddy at best. Now I'm just using 9.10.

---

