---
title: "8.04 No Updates?"
date: 2008-05-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by packrat on 2008-05-02
Been running Update Manager and have not had an packages that have need updating. Have there been any since the release?

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-05-02
No.

---

### Post by scragar on 2008-05-02
I havn't noticed any, running hardy on a 64 bit computer with both kubuntu-desktop and ubuntu-desktop installed. So I'm guessing that there havn't been, although I wish there would be.

---

### Post by packrat on 2008-05-02
> **kpkeerthi said:**
> No.

Great! Hardy is really top-flight. Thank you Ubuntu!!

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-05-02
> **packrat said:**
> Great! Hardy is really top-flight. Thank you Ubuntu!!

Yeah. My only issue is with Firefox (3 beta) causing lot of disc IO sometimes. And yes I read about the bug and workarounds. Looking forward to firefox 3 final. Otherwise pristine. :)

---

### Post by scragar on 2008-05-02
you can get rid of all of firefoxes obcene I/O by turning off both "tell me if the site I'm visiting is a suspected..." option under security in the preferences, since it's an error causing a large checking file that then results in such huge reading/writing of the file all the time.

---

### Post by packrat on 2008-05-03
> **kpkeerthi said:**
> Yeah. My only issue is with Firefox (3 beta) causing lot of disc IO sometimes. And yes I read about the bug and workarounds. Looking forward to firefox 3 final. Otherwise pristine. :)

Yep.

Not interested is shutting off any security features...will be happy with the bug being fixed.

Will, also, be happy when a Fireftp add-on is updated.

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-05-03
I've just had 2 updates :p I'm running Hardy x64, and they totalled a MASSIVE 486kb :)

---

### Post by jespdj on 2008-05-03
It's normal that you don't get updates if you're using the final release of Ubuntu 8.04. After a release, you'll only get updates if there is an urgent security problem or a major bug.

See this for more information: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates)

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2008-05-03
I have 12 updates ranging from Linux generic to apparmor

---

### Post by lswest on 2008-05-03
> **sox fan Matt said:**
> I have 12 updates ranging from Linux generic to apparmor

you probably have the proposed sources enabled, i do too, installed it this morning :P

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2008-05-03
Probably, I just checked and they were there so I thought "better safe then sorry, right"? :)

---

### Post by Myglaren on 2008-05-03
Just had another 19.

---

