---
title: "12.04 is there a simple way to update bios and chip software"
date: 2013-01-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by blake7 on 2013-01-06
ps
i have a dell
latitude d420
Genuine Intel® CPU U1300 @ 1.06GHz 


thank you

---

### Post by sanderj on 2013-01-06
Why do you want to upgrade your BIOS?
Which BIOS version do you have now?
What you tried and found out yourself?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-01-06
blake7; Hi !

There exist the adage "if it ain't broke, don't fix it" ! Have a solid reason to mess with your bios. There are cases of updating bios breaking your system.

That said, there are ways to do it by burning and setting up a dos disk.

I my self decided rather than flashing my bios ...a new updated bios chip is rather cheap. Much faster to change the chip than flash the chip, much less error prone, and if a problem, can revert back to the old chip. 

look and see if your bios is on-chip and replaceable.

[INDENT][INDENT]just my opinion <== BDQ
 
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-01-06
Check Dell's support site.  Put in your model number or service tag and look for a BIOS update disk.  These are typically bootable CD's or floppies that you download and make yourself.  Then boot and follow the instructions.  It's painless and I have flashed the BIOS on Dell laptops, desktops, and servers without issue.

But first check the BIOS release notes to see if it solves problems that you are experiencing.  If the machine works and does everything you want, then there is really no read to upgrade the BIOS.  If it won't read a newer hard disk or some other feature is not working correctly, then try flashing a newer BIOS.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2013-01-06
You do realize that neither of these has much of anything to do with your version of Ubuntu?

+1 on other folks' comments about BIOS.  Don't mess with it unless you're relatively sure there's something to be gained.  Go into your BIOS, find out what version you're running, then go to Dell's website and look for the latest version for the EXACT model of your PC.  If yours is BIOS version 17.6.4 and they're offering a newer version of 17.6.6 I definitely wouldn't bother.  If there's a big difference in the numbers, indicating several revisions, and you're pretty sure that something in those revisions solves some problem that you're experiencing, well, it might be worth pursuing.  

The chipset software on Dell's website is worthless to you.  The chipset software they offer installs from a Windows environment.  If the Linux kernel doesn't have support for your chipset there's not much you can do.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2013-01-06
As a guy who has gone through a bad bios flash and had to wait a week for a new bios to arrive in the mail afterward. 

+1 to the guys above, simply don't do it unless you *need* to.

---

### Post by Terl on 2013-01-06
Having owned Dells in the past I recall their update is set up to start from windows so I do not think it would work from Linux.

Second, if you are not having problems I'd not do it.  I agree with the other posters, be wary of BIOS flashes.

---

