---
title: "802.11bg wireless card shows &quot;not ready&quot;. How to enable it?"
date: 2010-07-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cope cola on 2010-07-20
Hey guys,

I have just installed Ubuntu from an USB disk, version unknown (to me), and I can't connect to the wireless network. Yesterday a friend of mine told me he had the same laptop that I have, ACER extensa 5210, and could connect without any problems from the start. He did something very geek on my laptop in another room, I suppose he cast a spell or something, because then the wireless connection was working. This morning I had to re-install Ubuntu and the wireless is not working again. I have no other internet connection available. Any ideas?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-07-20
Post back the results of each of the following:

- open a terminal window (Applications/Accessories/Terminal)

- type:

lspci <press enter>

lsusb <press enter>

lshw -C network <press enter>

iwconfig <press enter>


Dave ;)

---

### Post by cope cola on 2010-07-20
vanni@vanni-laptop:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/PM/GMS, 943/940GML and 945GT Express Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 2 (rev 02)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 3 (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH7 Family USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e2)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GBM (ICH7-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 82801GBM/GHM (ICH7 Family) SATA AHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family SMBus Controller (rev 02)
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation NetLink BCM5787M Gigabit Ethernet PCI Express (rev 02)
03:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4311 802.11b/g WLAN (rev 01)
0a:06.0 CardBus bridge: Texas Instruments PCIxx12 Cardbus Controller
0a:06.1 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Texas Instruments PCIxx12 OHCI Compliant IEEE 1394 Host Controller
0a:06.2 Mass storage controller: Texas Instruments 5-in-1 Multimedia Card Reader (SD/MMC/MS/MS PRO/xD)
0a:06.3 SD Host controller: Texas Instruments PCIxx12 SDA Standard Compliant SD Host Controller
vanni@vanni-laptop:~$ lsusb^C
vanni@vanni-laptop:~$ lsubs
No command 'lsubs' found, did you mean:
 Command 'subs' from package 'libsubtitles-perl' (universe)
 Command 'lsusb' from package 'usbutils' (main)
lsubs: command not found
vanni@vanni-laptop:~$ lsusb
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 0951:1607 Kingston Technology DataTraveler 100
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
vanni@vanni-laptop:~$ lshw -C network
WARNING: you should run this program as super-user.
  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: NetLink BCM5787M Gigabit Ethernet PCI Express
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:16:d3:5e:46:97
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list ethernet physical
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=tg3 driverversion=3.102 firmware=5787m-v3.23 latency=0 multicast=yes
       resources: irq:28 memory:d6000000-d600ffff
  *-network
       description: Network controller
       product: BCM4311 802.11b/g WLAN
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       version: 01
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=b43-pci-bridge latency=0
       resources: irq:17 memory:d8000000-d8003fff
  *-network DISABLED
       description: Wireless interface
       physical id: 2
       logical name: wlan0
       serial: 00:19:7e:c8:ce:06
       capabilities: ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg
vanni@vanni-laptop:~$ iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:off/any  
          Mode:Managed  Access Point: Not-Associated   Tx-Power=0 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          

many thanks

---

### Post by varunendra on 2010-07-21
> **cope cola said:**
> He did something very geek on my laptop in another room, I suppose he cast a spell or something, because then the wireless connection was working. This morning I had to re-install Ubuntu and the wireless is not working again. I have no other internet connection available. Any ideas?

Have you checked that the 'Wireless Communication Switch' in front of your laptop is 'On'?
You may wish to look at the manual of your laptop to figure out the conditions when the wlan could be disabled. Its pdf version can be downloaded [here]("http://support.acer.com/acerpanam/manuals/acer/0000/userguides/EX_5620_5610_5220_5210_UG_EN.pdf"). (refer to the 33rd page of the pdf manual)

---

### Post by cope cola on 2010-07-21
> **varunendra said:**
> Have you checked that the 'Wireless Communication Switch' in front of your laptop is 'On'?
You may wish to look at the manual of your laptop to figure out the conditions when the wlan could be disabled. Its pdf version can be downloaded [here]("http://support.acer.com/acerpanam/manuals/acer/0000/userguides/EX_5620_5610_5220_5210_UG_EN.pdf"). (refer to the 33rd page of the pdf manual)
   
Thank you very much lad, that was the first johnes I checked out and is the reason why I'm posting here: the led behind the switch doesn't burn. 

In fact, when I press the switch the status of the wireless goes from "disabled" to "Not ready".
I tried to wait a couple of minutes but nothing ahahahah.

Does it ring any other bell?

---

### Post by varunendra on 2010-07-22
> **cope cola said:**
> Does it ring any other bell?
Unfortunately not! :(

But here's what anewguy may suggest: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1531066&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1531066&page=2)

Some googling (another obvious attempt you might already have tried!) gave me this:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessTroubleShootingGuide](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessTroubleShootingGuide)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1470428](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1470428)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9289237&posted=1#post9289237:](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9289237&posted=1#post9289237:)

---

### Post by cope cola on 2010-07-22
> **varunendra said:**
> Unfortunately not! :(

But here's what anewguy may suggest: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1531066&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1531066&page=2)

Some googling (another obvious attempt you might already have tried!) gave me this:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessTroubleShootingGuide](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessTroubleShootingGuide)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1470428](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1470428)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9289237&posted=1#post9289237:](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9289237&posted=1#post9289237:)

Thank you varunendra, I'll try to sort it out ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-07-22
It is a Broadcom 4311 wireless adapter, so if you follow the link that varunendra posted to one of my other posts, you should be able to get it to work.  The preferred way would be best, as you would at least be using a native driver.  However, I'm not a ndiswrapper bigot as some are, so if you can't do the preferred way go right ahead with the alternative way (ndiswrapper).

Don't worry - we're here to help and no question is "stupid", so no matter what, if you have a problem or a question, stop at the point and post back here what you have done, what the problem or question is you have, and we'll get back to you.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by cope cola on 2010-07-23
Thanks, we can discuss it on the other thread then, I imagine it's: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1531066&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1531066&page=2)
To avoid redundance of info for the others.

---

