---
title: "hp psc 1510"
date: 2009-09-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by joseph26 on 2009-09-27
helo all, im new here. i have the latest ubuntu linux and my hp psc printer has stopped scanning but it prints and copies fine, i hve removed and reinstalled the software but nstill not working had a second printer exactly the same and the problem still exists. any ideas

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-09-27
install hplip.

---

### Post by joseph26 on 2009-09-28
thanks for replying, i have done this and removed and reinstalled but still not working got second printer with same problem so assuming the printers are ok and problem is software related. removing software doesnt remove the settings because when i reinstall the settings are still valid. i think if i could wipe it from my system it would resolve it any ideas how to do this. thanks, joe.

---

### Post by Nick Brohman on 2009-09-29
> **carlee said:**
> install hplip.

May I ask, please, how one of very limited experience can configure Printing  with hplip/gui.... installed ? 

I have downloaded the 3.9.8. version to no avail as Terminal commands have not worked for me.

I have only had this problem since last Thursday when 9.04 was installed on this PC as an upgrade of 8.04 LTS.

I removed the c4200 last night & re-installed a c5280 which I set as default printer.

The 5280 scanned with the preview window for 4 hrs. but would not give me the preview 5 hrs later. 

It is also now mounted as a new printer every time I turn it on.

So far I have had up to seven 5200s recognised when I feel one is sufficient for my needs.

If possible, could any one who can help me, post picture instructions to me by private/email message or direct me to where I can see what I need to do.

I need visuals as being of 5 weeks experience, I can't understand all acronyms as yet or what is required with this installation. 

I was able to get my printer working quite easily with Hardy but Jaunty has me slumping/sliding into great depths of despair.

---

### Post by mapes12 on 2009-09-30
Open up the cups web interface and set your printer options there. To open the interface open firefox and type:


[http://localhost:631](http://localhost:631)


and for the latest HP drivers:


[http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/index.html](http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/index.html) **BUT** this can be downloaded in Synaptic. Search for hplip

---

### Post by starcannon on 2009-09-30
Perhaps deleting the printer and adding it back. It really sounds like a config file got hosed up somehow.

System>Administration>Printing
Rclick on the printer/s and delete it/them.
Click New and go through the wizard.

GL

---

### Post by Nick Brohman on 2009-09-30
> **starcannon said:**
> Perhaps deleting the printer and adding it back. It really sounds like a config file got hosed up somehow.

System>Administration>Printing
Rclick on the printer/s and delete it/them.
Click New and go through the wizard.

GL
 Thanks for these replies. I had expected the preview window to automatically appear every time I started XSane.

Under 'Window' I have found that the preview was unchecked, not having done so myself, I was mystified.:confused:

I found that at 11.36 pm AEST, 4 mins. ago.

I have removed the printer many times today yet each time I turn it on, another one appears in hplip.

You can understand my frustration of having something happen that I don't know how or why or what.

Learning to compute via the Net is very frustrating to me but I am very grateful to all whom help me learn.
Another lesson learnt..Thank you...Nicko :):guitar:

---

