---
title: "10.04 Black screen on bootup"
date: 2011-10-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by w0ipl on 2011-10-11
I'm getting very frustrated.

Updated to latest current on 10.04 last night and it included Mozilla and Firefox updates. Install went smoothly and the initial re-boot was fine. When I turned on my machine this morning it was fine. Checked E-mail and logged off. As I turned it back on at 11:40 (Denver time) I got a black screen after hearing the standard Ubuntu startup sound. If I unplug it, plug it back in and turn it back on, it comes up so I can use it (does not display some of the intermediate startup screens).

I am frustrated because this happened on the 2nd update back and lasted until I did the next update after that. In other words the previous (to last night's) update "fixed" the problem and now with this update last night, it is back.

Did I do something wrong?

Somewhat(?) related problem: When I run the Update Manager it - - always - - tells me my system is up to date. I then click on "Check" and it asks for my password and then checks, always finding updates (I usually check each two or three weeks). What have I got set wrong to have it not "find" updates until I tell it to check again and enter my password?

Sorry for the tone, but this is getting VERY aggravating.

---

### Post by nickleboyblue on 2011-10-11
The update manager issues are usually easily fixed by setting the correct preferences in update manager settings.  In 11.04, you click on the button labeled "settings" in the update manager.  I don't remember if that's where it is in 10.04, but if it isn't, you should be able to find them in the edit menu under "settings."  Simply click which updates you want it to check for and it will automatically do so on a regular basis.

I can't help much with the blank screen problem, though you could try restarting the graphics side of things from a command line (if you can open one by pressing ctrl-alt-F1.)  To get back to graphical from that terminal, hit alt-F7.  Sometimes you'll have to hit a different function key to get back to the graphical interface.

---

### Post by lincoln32 on 2011-10-11
[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/)

works every time

one of the only real bugs in 10.04 good luck:D

---

### Post by w0ipl on 2011-10-11
> **nickleboyblue said:**
>  Simply click which updates you want it to check for and it will automatically do so on a regular basis. 

Thanks, but I prefer determining when it looks for updates. I switched to manual the third time it interrupted an edit session I had going.

---

### Post by w0ipl on 2011-10-11
> **lincoln32 said:**
> [http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/)

works every time

one of the only real bugs in 10.04 good luck:D

Thanks. it sounds like the real "fix" is to update to 11.04.  ;)

---

### Post by w0ipl on 2011-10-13
Tried using 11.04 without installing and it managed to wipe out my boot record.

TWO days later I am running 11.04 WITHOUT any of the bookmarks, passwords or E-mail addresses I had.

Ran from a USB stick I created after downloading 11.04. (All RCs were good).

At least I had the sense to backup all other user data before attempting anything.

SIGH!

---

