---
title: "12.04 clone encrypted drive?"
date: 2012-09-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Keithhn on 2012-09-15
Is it possible to clone a entire LVM managed encrypted drive to an identical second hard drive?
I thought maybe if you had 3 drives one with Ubuntu 12.04 running, one as the 'from' drive and the other as 'to' drive but since the 'from' drive is encrypted I don't know if Ubuntu 12.04 could copy it. The other thing I thought of is to boot with the 'from' drive and copy everything over to the 'to' drive... however I figure there may be some locked files like swap etc. that would not copy over. Any advice is appreciated.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-09-15
Hallo. I am not going to try and give you any detailed info because I haven't tried any of this myself.

I believe that there are a number of programs that can do a bit for bit clone of a partition or a drive. I think you might be on the right track with the idea of a partition to boot from, a "from" and a "to" partition. I think you might like to look for information on clonezilla and dd. Also, I believe gparted can do a one-to-one copy of a partition.

I am fairly sure that you could boot into the live environment to do this stuff too. I know you can install programs (like dd, for instance) in the live environment as long as you have an internet connection. The programs aren't installed anymore, of course, the next time you boot into that environement, but they are there as long as you don't shut down.

I don't know much about encryption, but I assume the password and decryption data is on the partition somewhere and will be copied. To put it another way, if you do a bit for bit copy of a partition, I can't see any reason why you couldn't then just slot the copy in in place of the original and have it work. I might be missing something, though.

---

### Post by Sef on 2012-09-15
check out [clonzilla]("http://clonezilla.org").

---

### Post by Keithhn on 2012-09-16
Do you know if Ubuntu 12.04 LVM entire disk encryption is LVM 1 or 2? Clonezilla says it only supports LVM2 (not LVM 1). This time through I just built the second machine from the ground up but the next machine I will try Clonezilla... unless I know it won't work... let me know your thoughts. Thanks!

---

### Post by shreepads on 2012-09-17
> **Keithhn said:**
> Do you know if Ubuntu 12.04 LVM entire disk encryption is LVM 1 or 2? Clonezilla says it only supports LVM2 (not LVM 1). This time through I just built the second machine from the ground up but the next machine I will try Clonezilla... unless I know it won't work... let me know your thoughts. Thanks!

AFAIK LUKS/LVM operate ABOVE the hard disk partition level.

So if you use Clonezilla's whole disk cloning method it shouldn't matter what LVM version is supported. I think that only applies when you want to clone partitions...

---

### Post by Keithhn on 2012-10-08
Clonezilla worked! It did complain about grub (I should have taken a picture of the messages) but when I put the cloned drive in the new machine it worked perfectly with the encryption and everything on the drive intact.  FYI: When I first started Clonezilla it said that it had over 16 hours remaining (cloning 1 Tb drives). So I waited till I could get enough time to do it (over the weekend). Thanks for the advice!

---

### Post by mips on 2012-10-08
> **Keithhn said:**
> When I first started Clonezilla it said that it had over 16 hours remaining (cloning 1 Tb drives). So I waited till I could get enough time to do it (over the weekend). Thanks for the advice!

It makes a an exact bit-for-bit copy of the HDD that's why it takes so long. At the end you end up with an exact duplicate.

---

