---
title: "3.2 kernel instead of 3.5?"
date: 2013-05-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Akacheebe on 2013-05-03
Hi all, I have a question about kernel updates.  I have a couple of computers with Ubuntu 12.04 on them and I recently got my old Dell 1100 laptop to work with v12.04.2.  The reason I used 12.04 instead of 12.10 is because v12.04 is LTS and I don't want to have to reload every time a new version comes out.  

Ok, so I was checking on the kernel versions between the two systems, ie, laptop with 12.04.2 and my desktop with 12.04 and noticed that there's two different kernel versions listed with the 12.04.2 having the newer kernel v3.5 and the desktop only has 3.2??  I tried a to sudo the update in terminal to see if it would go to the newer 3.5 kernel on my desktop but it's a no go??

So, can someone tell me why my desktop with v12.04 won't upgrade to the newer 3.5 linux kernel?

Thanks,

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2013-05-03
The 3.5 kernel is part of the [LTS hardware enablement stack]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack") and isn't installed automatically as it can break compatibility with certain older hardware. For example if you have an ATI 2/3/4xxx series card you won't be able to use the ATI fglrx driver any more after updating.

To install the 3.5 kernel and X server version 1.13 you can run the following command...
```
sudo apt-get install --install-recommends linux-generic-lts-quantal xserver-xorg-lts-quantal libgl1-mesa-glx-lts-quantal
```

---

### Post by Akacheebe on 2013-05-04
Hummm, I don't think I understand all that?  The desktop computer has an ATI 1650 PCIe vid card and I'm going to "assume" that if I would have had 12.04.2 to install on it instead of 12.04 that everything would have worked?  Yes/no??  If yes then should I go ahead and upgrade to 3.5 or is it possible that something else in my system won't work with that update?  It's an ASUS P5Q Pro moboard with an Intel chipset and 3.6GHz Pentium IV CPU.  I'd like to stay "current" on the kernel as that's the reason I went with 12.04 from Mint 12.  

That Dell 1100 Laptop I installed 12.04.2 on did have a problem with the Intel 845 video chipset but I was able to install Grub Customizer on it and get the video up to 1024x768 to make it work.  It did have video problems though on every version of Ubuntu I tried to install on it going back to 10.04 I think.  Only Linux OS that would install on it without video problems was Mint 11, which is no longer supported, hence the 12.04.2 upgrade.

Thanks

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-05-04
You can find out for yourself by using Synaptic Package Manager to install the 3.5 kernel.  If it works and your happy with it, then fine.  If your not, just revert back to the 3.2 kernel at boot (in your grub menu).

[http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142:u-ocqbntw_o&q=install+kernel+synaptic&sa=Search&cof=FORID:9](http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142:u-ocqbntw_o&q=install+kernel+synaptic&sa=Search&cof=FORID:9)

```
sudo apt-get install synaptic
```

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2013-05-04
If you have a 1650 then you are already using the open-source radeon driver, this still works with the new kernel and X server so go ahead and upgrade.

---

### Post by Akacheebe on 2013-05-05
Ok, Thanks ppl for the replies.  I do have snypatic installed on all my systems as I like that much better than the Ubuntu Software Center.  I'll probably do that update some time this coming week as there's just too much "real life" stuff that is in the way at the moment.  

Thanks again!

---

