---
title: "Chip and Pin Card Reader.  Will it work?"
date: 2009-01-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Teabicky on 2009-01-22
Hi, Just had a letter from my bank informing me that they are bringing in a chip and pin system for use with online banking.  Does anybody know if the reader will work with Ubuntu? or even better is anybody already using this system with ubuntu?

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2009-01-22
I do my online banking with ubuntu.

But you aren't giving info enough.

Either way, just email your bank and ask it.

---

### Post by Teabicky on 2009-01-22
I already do my internet banking with ubuntu.  I was just wondering about the actual card reader they are sending.  The only info I can give is that I bank with the Co-operative.  I'll email them and post the results here.

---

### Post by tarps87 on 2009-01-22
Nationwide said they were doing this and sent me a card reader but it was a small battery thing designed to create a number.passkey for my card. I have never been prompted or needed to use it (only use online banking to transfer between accounts) but yours sounds the same, if it is you don't plug it into you computer so you should be able to use Ubuntu as you did before.

Just found this page:
[http://www.co-operativebank.co.uk/servlet/Satellite/1228376873753,CFSweb/Page/Bank-InternetBanking](http://www.co-operativebank.co.uk/servlet/Satellite/1228376873753,CFSweb/Page/Bank-InternetBanking)

> ... and does not need to be connected to your computer.

Hope this helps

---

### Post by Teabicky on 2009-01-22
Thanks for that.  Didn't find that quote myself so I feel a bit lazy now!!!

I'll wait for the thing to arrive instead of emailing them and update add what happens on this thread.

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2009-01-22
It's probably a small dongle similar to what I used to use, to get into a company VPN, for email and network files. The dongle is a self-contained item that generates a random pass code. When you access the bank website you have to enter this code within a short timeframe (say 10s), so that it ties up with the one generated by the bank, in order to access your account.

---

