---
title: "10.04: How to open a file on startup?"
date: 2010-06-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tyler9 on 2010-06-15
In Ubuntu 10.04, I checked Help topics and:
System>Preferences>Startup Applications

...but didn't find how to do a simple thing: 

What if the user wants a specific ***file***--say a particular doc, like a gedit txt file--to open on startup? In Windows, you'd just drag the file/doc (or its shortcut) into the Startup folder. How does the user do this in Ubuntu?

[Sorry if I missed a relevant Help topic--When I search Help using variants of  'open/opening a file/document on startup'  the search results give an "Assistive Tools" link. When I click it, Help hangs, with "Loading..." in the title bar.  When I click the link again, Help closes. This happened several times. Known bug?]

---

### Post by Chesamo on 2010-06-15
Make a new Startup Applications entry (you were halfway there!) and when you enter the program name, enter ```
command file.ext
``` In your example (a text file to be opened in Gedit), the command would be ```
gedit ~/file.txt
```

---

### Post by tyler9 on 2010-06-16
Thanks, Chesamo! Solved the problem--I should have drilled farther into the "Startup Applications Preferences" dbox. 

I'm transitioning to Ubuntu fr/Windows, whose standard UI design adds an ellipsis whenever a command button opens another dbox--in this case, would have been:    Add...   

So without thinking about it, out of habit, I assumed the "Add" button  simply added the selected app--didn't realize "Add" button opened  another dbox in which the user can specify more info, such as a  particular file.

Just a usability data point, one user's opinion: Can be helpful to cue the user that something additional will open when a command button is clicked.

---

