---
title: "12.04 performance issues"
date: 2012-09-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nadhlad on 2012-09-09
Hello, new to Ubuntu and loaded 12.04 onto an old Dell XPS M140 machine and have been having performance issues ever since. I went through a number of threads on performance issues and ran some of the suggested troubleshooting options but had no luck. I also saw a recommendation to install gnome-panel which would allow me to run one of the older versions that required less processor speed. I tried that as well but can't get the option to pop up before 12.04 loads. So I'm a bit stuck and not sure what to try next. Any suggestions are welcome and feel free to be remedial when explaining what to do. I'm just tech savvy enough to be dangerous but not enough to figure out everything on my own.

---

### Post by neil_1 on 2012-09-09
I would not use any of the newer DE's on an older system.
Gnome and unity are pretty heavy.
Try using Fluxbox/Openbox/LMDE

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2012-09-09
Ubuntu is a little heavy for that machine (especially if your running 512k of ram).

I have had good luck with Xubuntu on older machines.

[http://xubuntu.org/getxubuntu/](http://xubuntu.org/getxubuntu/)

---

### Post by critin on 2012-09-09
> **nadhlad said:**
>  I also saw a recommendation to install gnome-panel which would allow me to run one of the older versions that required less processor speed. I tried that as well but [COLOR=Red]**can't get the option to pop up before 12.04 loads. **[/COLOR]So I'm a bit stuck and not sure what to try next. Any suggestions are welcome and feel free to be remedial when explaining what to do. I'm just tech savvy enough to be dangerous but not enough to figure out everything on my own.

It sounds like you log in automatically.  You'll need to change that in order to set classic as default.  Then you can reset it to auto.

When you get to the log in page, click the little round gear cog in the upper right corner, right above the area where you enter the password.  A drop-down will give you the option to choose gnome classic or ubuntu 2d.  Choose classic and then enter your password.

I agree with [jerrrys]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=718079") xubuntu suggestion, it's very nice and stable;  (It just needs more backgrounds)  but ubuntu 12.04 works fine on my old Dell.  Just can't run 3d which doesn't bother me at all.

---

### Post by Epodx64 on 2012-09-09
I'd also recommend Xubuntu for that hardware I have a copy of Xubuntu installed on an old Athlon XP machines with 512mb of Ram.

---

### Post by nadhlad on 2012-09-09
Thanks guys. Responses were spot on and Xbuntu worked like a charm. I was also auto-logging in so was bypassing the login screen and missing the selection so thanks for the feedback. Very much appreciated.

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2012-09-09
enjoy :)

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads)

---

