---
title: "14.04 - camera problems"
date: 2014-06-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-18
I've had the same problem as many others with cameras not mounting in 14.04.  I've been following the launchpad report ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gvfs/+bug/1296275?comments=all](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gvfs/+bug/1296275?comments=all)), and I've just posted again there.

Normally I would let it go at that, and I know these words don't mean much, but......

"I'm in really desparate need of getting some pictures off my camera today".

OK, got that out of the way.

If anyone in the know can help me getting this working I would be forever in your debt!  ;)

I've been around the forums enough to know that pleas don't accellerate responses, but I really have to at least try today!

Thanks!

EDIT:  I should probably add:  no card reader on this PC so I can't take the card out of the camera and plug it in.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-19
I think there's something wrong with the way things are tested when something that did work gets broken for so many users in a new release.  The fix doesn't work for me.  It's really sad commentary that I had to go out and buy a card reader just so I could get pictures off my camera.

---

### Post by JeQhdMD on 2014-06-20
Another "probable"work-around (till fix uploaded next month), is to load a live Linux OS such as Parted Magic, Gparted or WiFislax.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-20
I believe the fix to be uploaded is the one you get if you follow the launchpad link and do the things listed there like I did.  I wouldn't *think* it should make any difference, but perhaps since I'm running xubuntu something is different "in there" such that the fix doesn't apply or doesn't work.

Uh, I may be even dumber than I thought, but aren't Parted Magic and Gparted disk management tools, not a live OS?  I do see where you are going though - download a non-ubuntu, possibly non-debian, live media or use something like the 12.04 LTS live media, but it really does defeat the purpose if you know what I mean.  I do see where that could help others with the same problem and no card reader - and for that I thank you for adding some valuable information here.  For me, the cheap card reader (I got it at Big Lots ;) ) is a temporary fix without the need to reboot, but I know that's not realistic for everyone.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-06-20
Parted Magic is a full featured live OS complemented with many tools, disk/partitions management and many others.
However, for the purpose and only because it was suggested as a temporary workaround, something much lighter (=> boots faster) like Puppy in a 8GB or less USB flash drive would be ideal.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-20
Thanks - didn't know that! ;)

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-21
But......does anyone have any ideas on fixing this problem in the OS itself?  As mentioned, the fix as posted in the launchpad report doesn't work for me.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-26
bump

---

