---
title: "11.10 Upgrade &quot;issues&quot; or feedback, call it what you will."
date: 2011-10-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by NeverUsedItBefore on 2011-10-16
OK, 
I always like to upgrade as soon as I see that I can.
& to be fair I have an old computer!

So I upgraded to 11.10.

The following can be taken as feedback or issues, I think I found a way to 'solve' (return to classic:
[http://www.liberiangeek.net/2011/08/return-to-ubuntu-classic-desktop-in-ubuntu-11-10/](http://www.liberiangeek.net/2011/08/return-to-ubuntu-classic-desktop-in-ubuntu-11-10/)
 but here goes:

1) The upgrade process which was pretty long has stopped to 'prompt' you 2 or 3 times.
Best to move all prompts to the start of the upgrade, and then let the installer run through, bit frustrating to leave 'puter on and find it hadn't upgraded as waiting for prompts.
& frankly, the language used in the prompts, didn't mean much to mean (some packages are to be removed - are they used? What programs do they relate to)..

2) Having upgraded from Classic, I guess it should be written to save the preference rather than upgrade and have to downgrade back using the instructions I included above. Should be quite simple - read a preference file - see what setting is made - use the setting for the new install..

3) (just like last time but less impacting) Booting up gives out of range error on monitor, but instead of preventing bootup like last time, this time it just goes away, so I guess it's fine (but it's not nice to see an error message :-)

4) The non-classic interface does actually work for my PC now to a certain extent (unlike before) but...

5) Several things are 'missing' or 'broken', or just plain hidden so I can't see 'em:

 - Some of the big icons on the left hand side are missing completely (Rubbish Bin, System Settings, Home folder.

 - In the system settings, only some items display with an icon, following are missing icons: Apperance, Keyboard Layout, Language Support, Screen, Keyboard, Mouse & touchpad, network, printing, system info, universal access and user accounts.

 - Bizaarely there is no shutdown button anywhere on the desktop!

 - Equally strange there is no button like what a windoze user would call a 'start button'.

 - So everything you do has to be searched for i think the thing I used was called dash home. For example, in other OS and in Classic, you can follow a series of menus. Lets say you want to run popular video conferencing app, you can go start menu - applications - internet - popular video conferencing app.
Instead you have to run effectively a search for this, all your nice programs are hidden away, which seems odd.

 - Classic provides a way to customize the Close, Minimize, Maximize things at the top of windows, so if you like to have them on the right hand side, its OK. Can see no way to customize this in non-Classic (standard?).

 Thought I'd send these thoughts in, like to try and make ubuntu better.
 It's still the best thing that happened to my PC, and I will now downgrade back to classic.
I wonder if this will continue to be supported?

---

### Post by egruber on 2011-10-16
I had some of the same issues with the missing icons. I tried to use your link to downgrade, but it is now a dead link.  Did I miss something?  Thanks!

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-10-16
Hi, I use unity but I chose to install a dock at the bottom with a menu so I can use it and almost never open dash.

You can also and a menu app to the top bar, but I can not find a link for that right now, I seem to have missed placed it.
Thank you

---

### Post by critin on 2011-10-16
try this one.

[http://www.liberiangeek.net/2011/08/return-to-ubuntu-classic-desktop-in-ubuntu-11-10/](http://www.liberiangeek.net/2011/08/return-to-ubuntu-classic-desktop-in-ubuntu-11-10/)

Actually, this link is already on the STICKY at the top of this forum.  lol
[ ]("http://www.liberiangeek.net/2010/09/downgrade-package-program-previous-version-ubuntu-10-0410-10-maverick-meerkat/")

---

### Post by David006 on 2011-10-16
> **NeverUsedItBefore said:**
> Several things are 'missing' or 'broken', or just plain hidden so I can't see 'em:

 - Some of the big icons on the left hand side are missing completely (Rubbish Bin, System Settings, Home folder.

 - In the system settings, only some items display with an icon, following are missing icons: Apperance, Keyboard Layout, Language Support, Screen, Keyboard, Mouse & touchpad, network, printing, system info, universal access and user accounts.

Nearly all these issues caused by errant theme.  Change to 'Radiance' should resolve ..

---

### Post by NeverUsedItBefore on 2011-10-17
Thanks everyone.
Yes I noticed my link in the original post had gone wrong (the word but had been accidentally appended to the hyperlink).
I've edited the post to make it easier in case someone searched for this.

Also, here are the two links, the sticky and the link I used:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859960](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859960)

[http://www.liberiangeek.net/2011/08/return-to-ubuntu-classic-desktop-in-ubuntu-11-10/](http://www.liberiangeek.net/2011/08/return-to-ubuntu-classic-desktop-in-ubuntu-11-10/)

For my missing icons, I found another post somewhere (also thanks for the reply in this), you just have to select your theme, change to different one, then change it back again.

The theme itself I guess has changed as part of the upgrade maybe. It does look different now, but at least the minimize/maximise/close icons are on the right hand side now.

One final problem I noticed was that the game called Qudrapassel now gives error when you launch, I'll add the feedback on the game of software centre.

---

### Post by NeverUsedItBefore on 2011-10-17
Wildman, your ubuntu looks great!
Mine looked massively different to that, so different, with like a bar on the left hand side with gigantic icons on it!
Anyway, I've downgraded now to Classic and it seems fine, will stick with this until it goes wrong or not supported!

---

### Post by NeverUsedItBefore on 2011-10-17
> **NeverUsedItBefore said:**
> OK, 
 - Bizaarely there is no shutdown button anywhere on the desktop!


Also, on this part, the Shutdown is now on your username.
In classic it's in the top right hand corner, click your user name (in my case this is set to my name), and press Shutdown...

Note that this is a bit silly, since, maybe you want to re-start - you still get this option once you clicked the button - but how are you to know that before you pressed it!

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-10-17
Hi, we are all finding new ways to adapt, I still have the launcher on the left side of the screen, I just have it hidden all the time.
Thank you

---

