---
title: "8.04 sound gone"
date: 2008-06-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tonu on 2008-06-03
Upgraded to 8.04, added codecs and all OK.

Then few days ago did an update and ALL sound gone, starting with login to startup sound theme.

Am using a removable (HD swap) rack system, one HD has 8.04 and the other has Xp prof.

My every day preference is 8.04 and occasionally use Xp for scanner (no ubuntu drivers?) work and checking on inkjet ink (both Epson).

Changed HDs to Xp and had no problrem running Youtube (and other) videos, but not with 8.04?

---

### Post by ubuntu-freak on 2008-06-03
Try explicitly selecting "PulseAudio" in System > Preferences > Sound, instead of "Autodetect". Reboot also. 
 
If that doesn't work, create a new user account in System > Administration > Users and Groups, then login to that account and see if sound works.
 
Nathan

---

### Post by tonu on 2008-06-07
Did as Nathan suggested and this did not work.


Then, removed all HDs, and did more testing with "Live DVDs" from Linux Format Magazine - Ubuntu 7.10, PCLinuxOS 2007, Knoppix 5.1.1 etc. and with all NO sound at all.

Removed my 2 x 1GB (667) Kingston RAM and had my "generic" computer manufacturer test them. Both OK!

Did System > Administration > Hardware Testing - what now

IS THIS A BIOS ISSUE?

WIN Xp Prof still works fine!

Still a Linux Nocice

---

### Post by tonu on 2008-06-08
Should have added to above:
MB - Asus M2NPV-VM
CPU - Athlon 64X2 4200 Mz
Audio - ADI1986A 5.1-Channel CODEC

Did more experimenting today.
Removed HD and put in Linux Format LFXDVD103 "Live DVD".
Booted to Knoppix 5.1.1 and no sound.

Now hit the RESET (instead of Exit and Restart) button and booted to PCLinuxOS 2007 (on same side of DVD) and got sound on Youtube and other videos.

Exited, removed DVD and replaced HD with Ubuntu 8.04 - still no sound.

What gives?  :confused:

In Win Xp Prof. sound is OK - Desperately want to discard Gates/Balmer!

---

