---
title: "Text only mode help"
date: 2009-03-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by abeautifulplace on 2009-03-21
I recently installed Ubuntu on a Dell Latitude C800 laptop. I have done it before, and again, I am having screen issues.

I know i need to edit xorg.conf and change the screen refresh rate, but i can't do so unless it's in text only mode because I can't properly see the terminal window.
I used the command
> sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
when the black screen comes up, I cannot use commands..

any suggestions?
and I am using [this guide]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973")
also, I am using the newest available version of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-03-21
Can you boot with recovery mode from GRUB menu and get into root shell?

---

### Post by abeautifulplace on 2009-03-21
> **taurus said:**
> Can you boot with recovery mode from GRUB menu and get into root shell?
I'm not so sure I know how to do that

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-03-21
When you first turn on your computer, you would see a logo from your mobo.  Then, you would see GRUB menu.  If you don't see the menu (instead of just the word GRUB), you have 3 seconds to press the Esc key to bring up the menu.  Scroll down to the second line (recovery mode) and boot from that.  Then, edit your /etc/X11/xorg.conf with

```
nano -Bw /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
When you are done editing, save and exit with <Ctrl>x and y to the question.  Then reboot.

```
exit
```

---

### Post by abeautifulplace on 2009-03-21
> **taurus said:**
> When you first turn on your computer, you would see a logo from your mobo.  Then, you would see GRUB menu.  If you don't see the menu (instead of just the word GRUB), you have 3 seconds to press the Esc key to bring up the menu.  Scroll down to the second line (recovery mode) and boot from that.  Then, edit your /etc/X11/xorg.conf with

```
nano -Bw /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
When you are done editing, save and exit with <Ctrl>x and y to the question.  Then reboot.

```
exit
```
Thank you SO much. :)
I do have one problem though.
When I edited xorg.conf, it was relatively blank. This is what I added:

> HorizSync 60 - 90.0
VertRefresh 50-70
Option "UseEdidFreqs" "1"
Now my screen occupies an 800x600 square in the middle of my screen and no other resolution options are availiable. I think I may have an idea of how to fix this but I'm not completely sure, and I don't want to go messing around with things that I'm not sure of.
Any idea on how I can fix it?

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-03-21
What do you mean relatively blank?  Sure, there is not a whole lot in there (comparing to older releases) but there should be something in there.

Well, at least this is the copy (/etc/X11/xorg.conf) from my machine.

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by abeautifulplace on 2009-03-21
Under each section there was only the "configured" monitor ectect.

---

