---
title: "11.10 Gnome Classic - Themes - Clearlooks - Gedit Tabs Contrast"
date: 2012-01-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by 2CV67 on 2012-01-30
Having happily reverted from Unity to Gnome Classic, I tried to continue my regression by looking for my old favorite Clearlooks Theme, or something like it.
First I checked all the combinations available in the impractical GUI in System Settings > Appearance.
Nothing clear, simple & legible enough for me.

Next, I installed Tweak-Tool, which gave me a lot more choice, in the same impractical sort of GUI.
To confirm my memories, I looked back in 10.04 & rediscovered the brilliantly simple, practical & flexible interface for themes in System > Preferences > Appearance.
You can see all the basic options at a glance & when you select one, you can tweak just about everything using a first-class GUI.

[ATTACH]212729[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]212730[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]212731[/ATTACH]

Is there any way to get this beautiful functionality back in Gnome Classic?


Anyway, back in Gnome Classic Tweak Tool, I found some themes which were more legible & functional, but not as good as good old clearlooks.
Trying "clearlooks" in Synapt, I found a number of possibilities, including "gnome-themes-selected" which says it includes "Clearlooks" so I installed that.
Nothing new was visible in "Appearance" but Tweak-Tool found & installed Clearlooks OK.
I also changed the "GTK+ theme" to Raleigh to get rid of various unpleasant effects.
So now I am happy!  :)

But I could be happier with more tweaks & I have not yet found if they are possible.
I went back to Synapt > "clearlooks" & installed "gtk-clearlooks-gperfection2-t" & "gnome-themes" which sounded as though they would provide more options, but I don't see anything extra in either Appearance or Tweak-Tool.
Is that normal?

Can I change theme colours by GUI?
I would prefer a lighter top to active windows, but this is a luxury.

More seriously, in Gedit, there is no discernible difference between active & non-active tabs.

[ATTACH]212732[/ATTACH]

Again, it was OK in 10.04.

[ATTACH]212733[/ATTACH]

I did find a method here: 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1871472](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1871472)
but would like to find something simpler, more obvious, more GUI...
I know some of the alternative GTK+themes do highlight active tabs OK, but they all have bigger drawbacks, so I would prefer to keep this one & fix the tabs if possible.

Thanks for all suggestions!

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2012-01-30
ah the good old clearlooks. it's called that way for a reason and i really don't know why it was dropped. but in the mean time i moved to KDE (doesn't have anything to do with Unity) and there the default theme is very similar to clearlooks and is also very clear and simple.
 
anyway why not try XFCE? at the moment it has more customisation options than Gnome3.
 
in 12.04 there should be more customisation options. haven't tried it myself yet, but been watching some youtube videos.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-01-30
Gnome 3 remake . [http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=145210](http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=145210)

---

### Post by 2CV67 on 2012-01-30
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> Gnome 3 remake . [http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=145210](http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=145210)

That works very well (so far...) for me & fixes my 2 immediate concerns!
Thanks!

[I][EDIT: I wanted to thank the author - jpfleury on the Gnome-Look.org site, but they publish full names so I didn't.
Thanks anyway, jpfleury!][/I]

Still open question about is it possible to select/tune themes by decent GUI?

Looking at XFCE/KDE etc is on my to-do list...

---

### Post by 2CV67 on 2012-01-30
I am REALLY pleased with Clearwaita!

In the nit-picking department, I did find that my Top-Panel & its icons became bigger after a reboot, so there was not much space left.
Funnily enough, panel properties said it was at 25 pixels both before & after.
Also 25 pixels is the minimum setting I could find.
This "bug" is repeatable, switching between Clearlooks & Clearwaita with reboot in between.

In the end, I tried the idea from here:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/69576/how-to-customize-the-gnome-classic-panel](http://askubuntu.com/questions/69576/how-to-customize-the-gnome-classic-panel)
I found /usr/share/themes/Clearwaita/gtk-3.0/settings.ini & added a line
```
gtk-icon-sizes = panel-menu=16,16:gtk-large-toolbar=16,16
```

I hate this kind of stabbing in the dark & would much prefer to be able to do this by GUI, but anyway...

It works pretty well.  :D

Clearlooks
[ATTACH]212737[/ATTACH]

Clearwaita
[ATTACH]212738[/ATTACH]

Clearwaita 16 pix
[ATTACH]212739[/ATTACH]

Repeat - I am DELIGHTED with Clearwaita!

---

