---
title: "11.04 Issue: Dual Monitor"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sheldonhuelin on 2011-04-29
Hi;
I have upgraded to 11.04 on both my work and home computers. My home monitor is hooked up to a second monitor (32" Samsung TV), for some reason Ubuntu is not detecting it after I log in. Also, as the computer is booting up, there is an image on the TV, but it disappears after I log in. Looks like it's Windows 7 until this is fixed :(
Sheldon

---

### Post by rosencrantz on 2011-04-29
a) What's your graphics card and did you install the proprietary drivers?
b) My Kubuntu install doesn't detect external monitors automatically, but I get every setting I want with KRandR. On Gnome, you might want to try System->Preferences->Monitor

---

### Post by sheldonhuelin on 2011-04-29
It randomly started working, everything seems fine now.

---

### Post by bluetoliu on 2011-05-03
I tried following way, and it will work finally.

turn Ubuntu to classic view
System -- login screen -- unlock then choose Ubuntu Classic.

unplug the secondary monitor. restart computer.
wait until ubuntu fully restarted, plug the secondary monitor.
then you will have two result.

1. Done, all screen are correctly displayed

2. Failed, Both screen turned to black, and not keyboard response.  

if 2, then hold power button to shut down machine, and keep  the secondary monitor pluged. then turn on pc.

repeat 2, then you will finally get 1.

I did it everyday, hope the patch will release soon. I am afraid hard reboot will damage my harddrive.

good luck.

---

### Post by bluetoliu on 2011-05-16
Confirm one way will work at least everytime for my Dell Vostro 3500 + 21' LG monitor.
  
turn Ubuntu to classic view (no effect)
System -- login screen -- unlock then choose Ubuntu Classic (no effect).

if only change to classic view, the problem is still random there, "no effect" option solve my problem, dual monitor working everytime.

---

