---
title: "8.04 screen resolution"
date: 2008-07-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Athenia on 2008-07-11
Hi

I have a Fujitsu-Siemens Amilo Pro laptop with a via unichrome pro graphics card. I was using feisty, but this only gave me a resolution of 800x600, which is annoying when my monitor is 1260x768. I upgraded to 8.04 to try and fix this, but now have 1600x1200 resolution, which means I can only see the top right hand corner of the screen! It is just about managable like this, but I can't get to the off button...

I can change it to a different setting in System>Screen Resolution, but on any setting other than 1600x1200 the screen goes crazy and I end up with loads of parallel mouse pointers...

Any advice would be appreciated!
Thanks

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-07-11
Try running:
> gksu displayconfig-gtk

---

### Post by Athenia on 2008-07-11
Perfect, thankyou!
You may have saved me form windows :)

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-07-11
If the thread is solved, please mark it as so.  Go to your first post and pick "Thread Tools" and then select thread solved from the menu.

Thanks
Donald

---

### Post by Mysterious_Name on 2008-07-11
I don't mean to threadjack, but I'm having the same problem.

I have a Pavilion dv2845 with a 14.1" WXGA High-Definition Brightview Widescreen display (1280x800).  I've tried to find the correct option in the screen and graphics preferences.  The system initially assigns a plug and play 800 x 600 at 61 Hz.  I've tried almost every HP monitor listed to no avail.  I know my monitor is a 16:9 ratio.  Has anyone had this problem. 

Also, under the graphics section it lists mine as VESA driver (generic.)  I have a NVIDIA GeForce Go 7150M, but this isn't listed either.  I'm clueless here.

---

### Post by upchucky on 2008-07-11
The following link made sure my nvidia was installed properly yesterday when i upgraded to hardy, even though the nvidia driver was installed, I could not change resolutions.

Envy and manually editing xorg file did not work

it took about 10 minutes to do what this post said and now my system has proper nvidia settings


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6)

---

### Post by Mysterious_Name on 2008-07-11
I tried what was suggested in the link you posted.  In step 5, "nv" was already in the DISABLED_MODULES listed (without quotes.)

In step 7b., I wasn't sure which of the three to do.  So I did the last two.

In step 10, it said it couldn't find the installer.  I did the rest of the steps just to finish the job, but b/c the file wasn't found I don't think it mattered.  I downloaded the driver from the website listed, and am 99% sure it is the correct one.  I downloaded it to my desktop.  The file name is as follows:

NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-173.14.09-pkg2.run

I'm not sure where to go from here.

---

### Post by Mysterious_Name on 2008-07-11
I got it fixed.  Thanks for the help!

---

