---
title: "7.10 --&gt; 8.04"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by auraithx on 2008-04-28
Been using Ubuntu on this box since 6.10. I just downloaded Hardy Heron and tried to upgrade - done the automated install but when I try and boot into Heron I get Grub error 21. I'm posting right now from the LiveCD

---

### Post by oedha on 2008-04-28
how do you upgrade ?
clean install ? ( maybe it should be clean install CMIIW
grub error can be fix by supergrubdisk at [http://www.supergrubdisk.org](http://www.supergrubdisk.org)

---

### Post by auraithx on 2008-04-28
Yes I done a clean install.

How do I install this supergrub disc? Do I need to burn it to another CD?

---

### Post by oedha on 2008-04-28
if you jump to the link that i gave you before...
see on download section....you will get your answer :)

---

### Post by auraithx on 2008-04-28
Anyone have a better solution?

---

### Post by twright on 2008-04-28
did you make a separate partition for /boot?

---

### Post by auraithx on 2008-04-28
> **twright said:**
> did you make a separate partition for /boot?

I'm assuming the installer did that itself.

---

### Post by muteXe on 2008-04-28
A better solution than using the super grub disk? Nope, it's saved me a few times now to be honest.

---

### Post by auraithx on 2008-04-29
Is there any way to use that Super Grub Disk without a CD? as I don't have any blanks.

---

### Post by auraithx on 2008-04-29
I just burned that super grub disk to a CD and it won't boot from it. Same error.

wtf.

---

### Post by twright on 2008-04-29
make sure your computer is set to boot from cd

---

### Post by podfish on 2008-04-29
Boot that livecd, drop to a terminal, and type the following (assuming you only have one disk on your system and you're not running windows)

```
$ sudo grub
grub> boot (hd0,0)
grub> setup (hd0)
grub> quit
```
then reboot.
Again, this is assuming you boot from a single partition, or that your /boot partition is the first partition on your first drive, and that you have a working /boot/grub/menu.lst

I stay away from "super-anything" discs that try to do anything that can be easily done from the command line.

---

