---
title: "ATI Radeon 9600 Mobility Compiz problems"
date: 2008-04-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by whitethorn on 2008-04-24
Hi, 

I activated the ATI drivers in the restricted drivers page, and I used synaptics to install Compiz manager, and when I go to apppearance -> Visual Settings and try to set it to extra I get an answer.

Desktop effects could not be enabled.  

In Gutsy it used to work.  Can anyone maybe point me in the right direction? I wanted to try the same thing I had done in Gutsy but the xorg.conf looks completely different than it used to, so I'm not sure what to do.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-04-24
> **whitethorn said:**
> Hi, 

I activated the ATI drivers in the restricted drivers page, and I used synaptics to install Compiz manager, and when I go to apppearance -> Visual Settings and try to set it to extra I get an answer.

Desktop effects could not be enabled.  

In Gutsy it used to work.  Can anyone maybe point me in the right direction? I wanted to try the same thing I had done in Gutsy but the xorg.conf looks completely different than it used to, so I'm not sure what to do.

HI and could you post your xorg ```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by whitethorn on 2008-04-25
Hi here it is

 cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection



Oh I just figured it out.  I forgot to activate the drivers for my ATI card.  Used the restricted drivers menu rebooted and it works!

---

