---
title: "Trouble uninstalling googleearth."
date: 2009-08-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by billgkohl on 2009-08-30
Ubuntu 7.09. I am completely new to Ubuntu and Unix/Linux so realize I have probably screwed up something. I downloaded the linux googleearth and executed the bin. (googleearth-linux-plus-4.3.7284.3916.bin). It installed and I opened it. (First mistake it seems as root is now the owner.) Googleearth could not see the driver on my video card so it opened in some generic mode. I then downloaded a driver suggested by Ubuntu. Googleearth still runs in the generic mode. I have tried to run uninstall assuming that a reinstall will cause googleearth to see the new driver. When I try to run the uninstall in the google-earth directory with the following results:

blau2102@blau2102-desktop:/opt/google-earth$ ./uninstall
Could not find a usable uninstall program. Aborting.
blau2102@blau2102-desktop:/opt/google-earth$ ./uninstall.sh
bash: ./uninstall.sh: No such file or directory
blau2102@blau2102-desktop:/opt/google-earth$ sudo ./uninstall
Could not find a usable uninstall program. Aborting.
blau2102@blau2102-desktop:/opt/google-earth$ nano uninstall
blau2102@blau2102-desktop:/opt/google-earth$ sudo ./uninstall.sh
sudo: ./uninstall.sh: command not found
blau2102@blau2102-desktop:/opt/google-earth$ sh uninstall.sh
sh: Can't open uninstall.sh
blau2102@blau2102-desktop:/opt/google-earth$ sudo sh uninstall.sh
sh: Can't open uninstall.sh
blau2102@blau2102-desktop:/opt/google-earth$ php uninstall.php
The program 'php' is currently not installed.  You can install it by typing:
sudo apt-get install php5-cli
bash: php: command not found
blau2102@blau2102-desktop:/opt/google-earth$ sudo php uninstall.php
sudo: php: command not found
blau2102@blau2102-desktop:/opt/google-earth$ chmod +x uninstall.sh
chmod: cannot access `uninstall.sh': No such file or directory
blau2102@blau2102-desktop:/opt/google-earth$ chmod +x uninstall
chmod: changing permissions of `uninstall': Operation not permitted
blau2102@blau2102-desktop:/opt/google-earth$ sudo chmod +x uninstall
[sudo] password for blau2102: 
blau2102@blau2102-desktop:/opt/google-earth$ sudo ./uninstall
Could not find a usable uninstall program. Aborting.
blau2102@blau2102-desktop:/opt/google-earth$ 

Here is the uninstall script that was installed by googleearth:

#! /bin/sh
#### UNINSTALL SCRIPT - Generated by SetupDB 1.6 #####
DetectARCH()
{
        status=1
        case `uname -m` in
           amd64 | x86_64)  echo "amd64"
                  status=0;;
           i?86 | i86*)  echo "x86"
                  status=0;;
           90*/*)
                   echo "hppa"
                   status=0;;
            *)
                case `uname -s` in
                    IRIX*)
                        echo "mips"
                        status=0;;
           AIX*)
           echo "ppc"
           status=0;;
                    *)
                        arch=`uname -p 2>/dev/null || uname -m`
                       if test "$arch" = powerpc; then
                          echo "ppc"
                       else
                          echo $arch
                       fi
                        status=0;;
                esac
        esac
        return $status
}

DetectOS()
{
  os=`uname -s`
  if test "$os" = OpenUNIX; then
     echo SCO_SV
  else
     echo $os


Anyone have any ideas how I can run this uninstall. Also, do I have to keep 'root' as the owner. I can start it from an icon, only from a command line using sudo.

thanks in advance
Bill

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-08-30
If the uninstall script doesn't work, you can remove the program manually. If I remember correctly the Googleearth bin installs to /opt. Press Alt-F2 and type:

```
gksu nautilus
```

This opens the file manager as root, and you can navigate to File System-->/opt andjust delete the Googleearth directory.

If you did run the program as a normal user, there may be a configuration file in your home directory. It is probably a hidden file, so open Nautilus (Places-->Home Folder) and press Ctrl-h to reveal hidden directories and files.

---

### Post by billgkohl on 2009-08-31
> **cariboo907 said:**
> If the uninstall script doesn't work, you can remove the program manually. If I remember correctly the Googleearth bin installs to /opt. Press Alt-F2 and type:

```
gksu nautilus
```This opens the file manager as root, and you can navigate to File System-->/opt andjust delete the Googleearth directory.

If you did run the program as a normal user, there may be a configuration file in your home directory. It is probably a hidden file, so open Nautilus (Places-->Home Folder) and press Ctrl-h to reveal hidden directories and files.

Thanks, that was easy.

---

