---
title: "9.04 Jaunty upgrade problems"
date: 2009-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tomlan on 2009-05-01
I'm on 8.10 Intrepid, and having no problems.  
I have been considering going up to 9.04, but have been seeing a lot of possible issues listed here, including memory leaks/CPU maxing out, and sound problems.

Is 9.04 considered "stable"?
Is an upgrade from a stable version recommended ?

I'm now thinking I should wait, but would like to hear the party line...

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-05-01
All I can tell you is that my Jaunty boots up much faster (on the same machine) and it uses less RAM.  Sound works just as before with Intrepid.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2009-05-01
On my older machine, sempron 2400+, ATI9200SE, 1GB ram jaunty is the best version yet.  Everything just works.  Ubuntu gets better and better!

---

### Post by Niniel on 2009-05-01
Sure it's considered stable, or else they wouldn't have released it. So the party line is "Yes, it's great, upgrade now!" :)
I believe you're more after what people on the ground think - so here's my piece:
I haven't had any problems (that I can blame on 9.04). On the other hand, I haven't really seen any major improvements, either. Boot speed is about the same for me, system speed doesn't feel different... 
Obviously, some people are experiencing sometimes major problems. Is that normal because it happens with every upgrade, or is it worse this time? I'm leaning towards business as usual, but of course that's just me making uneducated guesses. ;)

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-05-01
It depends on your hardware.   My hardware works just fine with Jaunty.

Always back up your data before upgrading or installing.   There is no 100% guarantee that all will go well.

If upgrading, remove any proprietary software and uncheck any added repositories.

---

### Post by cheme420420 on 2009-05-01
I did a fresh install from Intrepid to Jaunty and do not have any major problems.  I believe that Intrepid was a little smoother for me on certain applications.  However, the experience is different for everyone.  It really depends on your hardware.  Do a quick google search for jaunty install problems or jaunty upgrade problems and check it out.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2009-05-01
Try a live CD, and see if you have any issues. Remember to check the live cd for errors if you choose to install.

Personally I think Jaunty is a bit more "speedy". You might get some more stuff to work, however some apps such as tracker are buggy for me, however that is not installed by default, so no problems there.

---

### Post by pablolie on 2009-05-01
i have 3 ubuntu installs.

9.04 works in 2 and broke in the 3rd (which is actually my favorite machine, unfortunately, a media server with RAID that now only boots off Vista 64).

i for one wish i had not upgraded to 9.04, but you only know after you try.

---

### Post by SonicSteve on 2009-05-01
> **tomlan said:**
> I'm on 8.10 Intrepid, and having no problems.  
I have been considering going up to 9.04, but have been seeing a lot of possible issues listed here, including memory leaks/CPU maxing out, and sound problems.

Is 9.04 considered "stable"?
Is an upgrade from a stable version recommended ?

I'm now thinking I should wait, but would like to hear the party line...


The biggest issue I've seen is surrounding Intel Integrated Graphics. If you have intel graphics you definitely want to test with the Live CD and try enabling Desktop Effects. 3D performance took a huge hit with some of the intel chips. The bug is hit miss though from what I've seen. One of my computers runs the 945G graphics chip, it was effected. I had to revert the video driver to Intrepids. Now it's mostly OK.

---

### Post by tgeer43 on 2009-05-02
My 9.04 upgrade on an HP DV9500T was by far the smoothest  I've ever had on any operating system. The one and only thing I had to readjust was my number of desktops from 2 back to my usual 4. In addition, it:

- Boots noticeably faster
- Requires less than 200MB RAM on my (tweaked) installation
- System Event sounds now work (not so in 8.10)
- No memory leaks, CPU spikes, or lock-ups - never reboot!
- Better overall system responsiveness/performance.
- Many newly updated applications
- EXT4 support

I just haven't found a downside to it yet. Of course it helped that the hardware in my notebook has great Ubuntu  support right out of the box. It just works!

Tom

---

### Post by treesurf on 2009-05-03
> **SonicSteve said:**
> The biggest issue I've seen is surrounding Intel Integrated Graphics. If you have intel graphics you definitely want to test with the Live CD and try enabling Desktop Effects. 3D performance took a huge hit with some of the intel chips. The bug is hit miss though from what I've seen. One of my computers runs the 945G graphics chip, it was effected. I had to revert the video driver to Intrepids. Now it's mostly OK.

Same here.  Once I reverted to the old Intel video driver (which was simple enough) everything was smooth.  I do think that's one heck of a bug, though...

This seems to be the speediest Ubuntu I've used yet.

---

### Post by xe1ufo on 2009-05-04
Hmmm. Three opinions.

1. On my L2005CO HP laptop (Lance Armstrong Special, 64-bit, 2.0 Ghz, 1 Gig RAM) I had Ubuntu 8.10 doing really well. I upgraded to 9.04-64 and now any time I use Synaptic to try to download any programs or updates, Synaptic just goes to a crawl or freezes up completely. While Synaptic is acting up, Firefox works flawlessly and opens up websites in a jiffy, so it is NOT my connection. I am still trying stubbornly to make this install work. :(  :confused:

2. On a home-assembled office server which had Ubuntu 8.10, I upgraded to 9.04. no problems whatsoever. I believe it improved in speed. All hardware works great. :)

3. On my Acer Aspire One mini laptop, 8.10 with the Sickboy Kuki kernel works extremely well, WIFI, sound, etc. On 9.04, no matter what, I could not get ANY networking to work: Not the internal WIFI, not a USB WIFI, not the wired Ethernet adapter, not a Cellular modem, not a USB Ethernet card. NETWORKING 100% BROKE!! Spent a dozen hours trying to fix it. Went back to 8.10 and am 100% happy. :(:confused:

So that is my two pesos' worth. As was mentioned by others, try out a live CD first and see how it plays on your machine. One thing is certain: With Ubuntu, things will improve. The bugs I have today in 9.04 will probably get worked out by somebody in these great forums in a very short time. :P

Steve, central old Mexico

---

### Post by jimingkui on 2009-05-04
I would rather make a backup,then install 9.04 from a live CD.It is so troublesome to upgrade to ubuntu 9.04

---

### Post by skinnie on 2009-05-04
anyone with a hp dv9500 had problems with shutdown/rebooting?
I never had problems,but now I do,it appears like a rainbow..maybe it has to do with ext4 no?

---

