---
title: "8.04 Install Display Concern/Confusion"
date: 2010-06-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sungod84 on 2010-06-03
I apologize in advance.  Not trying to over post. I think I may have posted in the wrong area and seeing as I am a Linux newbie I thought this might be a better place to start. 

I am new to these forums and hopefully soon to be convert to  ubuntu from windows. There is one snag I have run into and I'm hoping  someone can lend aid. If this has been posted somewhere else please  direct me as I was unable to find anything close. So I have a Compaq  SR5421F running windows vista. 
-AMD Dual Core 2.1GHz 
-Nvidia  GeForce 6150SE nForce 430. 
My "monitor" is my TV which is a Samsung  series 3 330. I ordered a distro of ubuntu a long time ago which is  8.04LTS Desktop Edition. I would like to install that to replace windows  soon. However I have noticed that when I run the program without  install just to get a feel for things, my TV displays "mode not  supported". I wanted to see if there was any way to work around this and  was able to boot into safe mode off of the CD. My concern is that if I  were to wipe my drive for the full install that I would not be able to  view anything. Is there a way to remedy this problem? Does it have to do  with not having the drivers for my graphics card on ubuntu? Even  setting my display in windows back to the lowest 800x600 did not work.  Any help would be appreciated and any additional information that is  needed just ask. Thank You

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-06-04
How are you connected to the TV? If you are connected via the vga connection, you should be able to get to the desktop using safe graphics mode. From the initial menu screen when booting from the Live CD press F4 and select safe graphics mode. then select Try without installing.

---

### Post by sungod84 on 2010-06-04
I am connected through standard VGA. Yes I can boot up in safe mode using the f4 option.  My only concern is will that become a problem when I do a full install and wipe windows clean off the drive. I don't want to have to start my computer in SafeMode for ever just to make it work. Or will it become a matter of once installed I will be able to access and change what I need so that won't be a problem anymore.

---

### Post by sungod84 on 2010-06-05
After doing a full install on my computer it booted in the standard 800x600 and I just had to install the drivers for my Nvdia card. Everything is good now.

---

