---
title: "Getting Back Button to Work on 8.10"
date: 2009-03-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dreas on 2009-03-01
I've searched extensively for this and can't seem to find a good tutorial. I have a microsoft comfort optical mouse 3000 and want the back button to work in firefox (it would be nice if I could do this while browsing file folders as well, but I really really want it for firefox).

There is an awesome tutorial on this forum how to do this in 6.10 right here (for some reason it's not letting me bump that thread):

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=252467]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=252467") (check out the fourth post)

The issue is that my xorg.conf file doesn't have a "section: input device" area. Below is my xorg.conf file:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

```

I tried just adding a section called "input device" and copying and pasting that into the xorg.conf file, but it screwed up my system pretty bad (mercifully I made the backup file suggested in the link, which I usually don't do - but it seemed like an important enough file to do it with).

I ran xev and the side button is indeed showing as button 9, just like the thread posted above, I just don't know what to add to the xorg.conf file. Can anyone help with this?



I found another tutorial showing how to do it using imwheel. Here is the link:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ManyButtonsMouseHowto?action=show&redirect=IntellimouseMousemanBackForwardButtons]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ManyButtonsMouseHowto?action=show&redirect=IntellimouseMousemanBackForwardButtons")

This seems straightforward as well, but the code it gives: 

```
run xinput set-button-map <device name> 1 2 3 6 7
```

does not show where to get device name from. I ran xinput -l and it gave me an output (shown below), but I don't know what to enter for <device name>.

```
"Virtual core keyboard"	id=0	[XKeyboard]
	Num_keys is 248
	Min_keycode is 8
	Max_keycode is 255
"Virtual core pointer"	id=1	[XPointer]
	Num_buttons is 32
	Num_axes is 2
	Mode is Relative
	Motion_buffer is 256
	Axis 0 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 0
	Axis 1 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 0
"Macintosh mouse button emulation"	id=2	[XExtensionPointer]
	Num_buttons is 32
	Num_axes is 2
	Mode is Relative
	Motion_buffer is 256
	Axis 0 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
	Axis 1 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
"AT Translated Set 2 keyboard"	id=3	[XExtensionKeyboard]
	Num_keys is 248
	Min_keycode is 8
	Max_keycode is 255
"Microsoft Microsoft Optical Mouse with Tilt Wheel"	id=4	[XExtensionPointer]
	Num_buttons is 32
	Num_axes is 2
	Mode is Relative
	Motion_buffer is 256
	Axis 0 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
	Axis 1 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1

```

Also, since I'm very new at this, I don't understand the example posted in that link:
> 
If, for example, your side mouse buttons map to the standard left and right (1 and 2) positions, and you wanted these side buttons to control Firefox's Back and Forward buttons, you would use the following .imwheelrc entry for Firefox.
```
"^Firefox-bin$"
None,Left,Alt_L|Left
None,Right,Alt_L|Right
```

Why would the example above work? I don't understand that code. Can anyone shed some light on this? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by MrWES on 2009-03-01
Real simple, open up Firefox and type about:config in the address area. You'll get a warning, but click past that. In the filter box type backspace, that should take you to browser.backspace_action. Change the interger value to 0 (zero). That'll make your backspace key work correctly in Firefox.

Bill

---

### Post by llamabr on 2009-03-01
I think you misunderstood the question.  This will make the backspace key work as a back button.

I think the OP was asking about a special button that's on his mouse, right?

---

### Post by Xiong Chiamiov on 2009-03-01
I used [btnx](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=455656) a while ago, and it worked pretty well.

> **dreas said:**
> 
Why would the example above work? I don't understand that code. Can anyone shed some light on this? Thanks in advance.
I don't know what None signifies, but Left and Right are for the left and right buttons on your mouse, and alt+left and alt+right are forward and back in firefox's history, respectively.

---

### Post by dreas on 2009-03-01
OK I figured this out (for Firefox anyway - if anyone can help with browsing system files I would still appreciate it). This also makes the side scroll work on the wheel as well.

From doing a bunch more searching I found that there were two possible ways to do this - one with xinput and one with xmodmap. I'll review the xinput method since it's what I used to get my back button working in Firefox.

First of all - don't forget this is for my mouse (microsoft comfort optical mouse 3000) so the button mappings below will work for that specific mouse (it may work for other mice but I'm not sure). I would recommend doing a google search for "<your mouse name> xinput button mapping" (without the quotes) or some variation of that to look for the correct button mapping sequence you desire (looks like there are plenty of people posting in forums who want and love that back button in firefox - so you will probably find a button mapping config for your mouse somewhere on a forum). Once you know the button mapping do the following in a terminal to get your device name:

```
xinput list
```

To answer my own question from earlier, the <device name> can either be the entire name in quotes (mine above was "Microsoft Microsoft Optical Mouse with Tilt Wheel") OR you can use the id # given to substitute for it. So in my example above I could just use the number 4. This can also be found by typing
```

man xinput
```

at the terminal and reading a bit there (my apologies for not checking here first, senior forum members).

Anyway, in my example I found the button mapping for my mouse with the back button on another forum (it is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 9 8). so now all I had to do was open a terminal and type the xinput code that was given above in my first post:

```
xinput set-button-map 4 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 9 8
```

Remember - I started out with the number 4 because that is my device name for my mouse. Substitute 4 for whatever your mouse id was when you ran xinput list.

After this it works perfectly!

However, you don't want to have to do that every time you start your system up, so go to System>Preferences>Sessions to make this load at startup.

Click Add. Name it "Back Button Enabler" or something you will remember. For command type


```
/usr/X11R6/bin/xinput set-button-map  4 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 9 8
```

(or whatever you used for remapping above)

And you should be good to go!

The only thing that I'm kinda bummed about is I can't figure out WHY that button mapping works. Oh well, hope this was helpful to anyone experiencing similar problems.

---

