---
title: "nVIDIA Graphics: Is it right?"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by babloo75 on 2010-05-03
Recently I managed to rectify one problem in my videos being played in Ubuntu.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1470687](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1470687)

Can anybody guide me whether I am using the correct driver for my graphic card. Is there any way to do so?

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-05-03
The best way to tell if you're using the proper driver (or at least one that is sufficient) is to use your computer. If the graphical stuff is working, no glitches, artifacts, video runs smoothly, then your fine.

---

### Post by babloo75 on 2010-05-04
Thanks..
I thought, there must be some command in 'Terminal' by which I can judge this.
(But why I am asking this question here is that when I was trying to install the drivers for my computer graphic card, it gave me two options:
1)....
2).... (Recommended)
as in the pic below....
I installed the one below in the list which is recommended one, but somehow the other one got installed. I don't know why.
Can anyone suggest something about this.
Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Noobobo on 2010-05-04
Activating the recommended one will de-activate the first. Restart required.

I have installed Lucid on 3 different PCs in the last days (Nvidia GFX) and the recommended driver seems always the best choice.

Cheers

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-05-04
It looks like the 173 driver is the one being used as default.

I've never seen Hardware Drivers (aka Jockey) display an nVidia Driver as Version Current. Its always Version 96 or Version 185 or some such.

Try using envy.

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-core
```

Then to run it:

```
envyng -t
```

Hit 1 then Enter to install, then look in the Recommended column for a +

If the recommended is the 173 driver, your all set.

If its another driver then hit its # in the Number column and hit Enter. When its done you'll need to reboot.

---

### Post by babloo75 on 2010-05-05
I have now activated the recommended one..... About the "envyng" thing.... I have not understood it. (Have little knowledge of Ubuntu).. I hope it is not wrong.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-05
It is now nvidia-current in lucid.

This installs currently, no pun intended, 195.36.15.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-05-05
> **philinux said:**
> It is now nvidia-current in lucid.

This installs currently, no pun intended, 195.36.15.

If that's the case with Lucid, then how the hell are we supposed to know which driver it is?

This strikes me as almost as stupid as having the panel totally uncustomizable in 10.04 UNE.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-05
> **warfacegod said:**
> If that's the case with Lucid, then how the hell are we supposed to know which driver it is?

This strikes me as almost as stupid as having the panel totally uncustomizable in 10.04 UNE.

You would go with the Recommended from jockey I'm guessing.

I'm not an expert on jocky.

Synaptic says nvidia-current is for geforce series 6 and onwards.
> GPUs such as GeForce series 6 or newer are supported.
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/nvidia-current](http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/nvidia-current)
> See /usr/share/doc/nvidia-current/README.txt.gz for a complete list of supported GPUs and PCIIDs 

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-05-05
first off, no Envy core in Lucid

Second, the prefered driver works fine .. for a while .. then some of the functionality disappears. (the rotate function and higher end resolution for cinema monitors.)  So that creates problems for those that USE such.

And the default driver, which uses xorg, not the back up one generated by the "prefered driver" does not accept changes. (but the resolution is there for the wide screen cinemas)
Tried to add the -- Option  RandRRotation"  "true" and the rotation on the "screens" in system> preferences (which replaced "resolution" from 9.10) remains grayed out.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-05-05
Going with Recommended is what I've been doing since 7.04 (now 9.10), never had any problems with it. It's always been the same driver (173) for my laptop, which is fine.

Now if I get a new laptop and want 10.04, I won't know which driver the Recommended is. What happens if the driver doesn't work? How am I supposed to know if I'm downloading the very same one from nVidia, therefore wasting my time?

Making the version simply "Current" is folly. Its little, pointless changes like this that absolutely infuriates me and allot of other users. Another example is 9.10 "upgrade" to gdm 2.28 from 2.20. That was just plain dumb with a healthy dose of moronitude. UNE's locked panel is another.

This trend of decreasing customizing ability is backwards.

Less is not better, its STUPID!

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-05
lif you check the link to the package it shows which driver it will install.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-05-05
So 4 months go by after I install it and something is now wrong. Instead of simply looking at it in Jockey, I have to either look for it online or hunt it up in Synaptic? This proves my point nicely. This is part (a small one to be sure) of the idiocy that drove me from Windows three years ago.

I'm sticking with 9.10 and when my mother gets here, to pick up her new laptop, it will have 9.04 on it.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-05
nvidia-settings shows the driver version. I've always used the latest driver 173 then 185 then 195. Current=latest I reckon.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-05-05
I just rebooted into my UNE partition and your right. But why change something that people expect to work or behave in a certain way? Make it faster. Make it lighter. Make it easier. Don't change it simply to fragging change it! Leave the way people *use* their OS alone unless a modification is clearly an improvement.

Regardless, we've wandered somewhat afield of the original point of this thread. Sorry babloo75.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-05
Mostly on topic I'd say lol.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-05-05
A detour to a destination then.:biggrin:

---

### Post by babloo75 on 2010-05-06
Thanks to all of you. I have understood about 40-50% of above posts.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-05-06
My best advice would be to chill out somewhat. The Hardware Drivers program will show you the best driver for your hardware; nothing changes there.

The only thing that has changed is the name of the package; it's now called "nvidia-current" instead of "nvidia-glx-195". That's a trifle of a change. It's so tiny, most people haven't noticed it. It means that, if Ubuntu decides to push out Nvidia's upcoming 256.xx driver, they can push it out in nvidia-current, whereas you can't really push it out in the "nvidia-glx-195" package :-)

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-06
I've had some issues getting the driver to 'stick', so to speak. You may want to remove the enabled driver in jockey, reboot and then enable nvidia-current and reboot again.

---

