---
title: "10.10 vs. 12.04"
date: 2012-07-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by inkameep on 2012-07-25
I've been using Ubuntu 10.10 for a year or two, and I'm very happy with it. However, I absolutely hate the new so-called Unity interface, because of its ugliness, non-intuitive navigation and loss of features, such as easy ability to change themes. My question is, what is the downside if I continue using 10.10? Will using a non-supported version put me at risk for security breaches? Will I still pick up updates to third-party things like Adobe Acrobat? I know you can configure 12.04 to use the old interface, but I also know there are bugs with the old interface and missing features.  

Feedback would be appreciated.

---

### Post by robtygart on 2012-07-26
Check here.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases")

According to this 10.10 has reached its "End of life date"

There are a lot of threads explaing how to change your Unity to something you like more.

---

### Post by stlsaint on 2012-07-26
> **inkameep said:**
> I've been using Ubuntu 10.10 for a year or two, and I'm very happy with it. However, I absolutely hate the new so-called Unity interface, because of its ugliness, non-intuitive navigation and loss of features, such as easy ability to change themes. My question is, what is the downside if I continue using 10.10? Will using a non-supported version put me at risk for security breaches? Will I still pick up updates to third-party things like Adobe Acrobat? I know you can configure 12.04 to use the old interface, but I also know there are bugs with the old interface and missing features.  

Feedback would be appreciated.

Using a non-supported OS is highly NOT recommended. You will not only no longer receive updates but you will not receive support. If you run into an issue and you come here and say "hey im running 10.10 and foo broke, how can i fix it" you will more than likely be greeted with, upgrade. BUT other than that yea sure you can run a EOL distro :D 
ps..as far as third party updates, if the publisher pushes them for your system than you will still get them.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2012-07-26
> **inkameep said:**
>  I know you can configure 12.04 to use the old interface, but I also know there are bugs with the old interface and missing features. 

 
you can use Mate (a fork of old GNome2), Cinnamon or Gnome Fallback mode if you want to stay in Gnome, but do not want Unity or Gnome Shell.
You can use Xfce (xubuntu) which looks like old gnome and can be made to look exactly like old gnome as it offers numerous tweaking options.
You can use any of other DE (KDE, LXDE, E17, RazorQt...) and let's not even start with the windows managers (IceWM, Openbox, Fluxbox...)

---

### Post by viperdvman on 2012-07-26
I second his recommendations. Although I was iffy about Unity at first, and saddened by GNOME 2 being a dead desktop environment, I gave Unity a chance when I upgraded to Ubuntu 11.10, and I ended up liking running it. I even modified my GNOME Shell in it to look and act like my old GNOME 2 setup in 11.04... sans global menu... with GNOME Shell Extensions.

Now, I mostly run KDE in 12.04, mainly since it supports using different wallpapers for my two different resolution monitors like my old Windows XP did and my Windows 7 does *(note: GNOME and Unity, probably Cinnamon and MATE too, and Enlightenment doesn't support this... yet)*. I've also tinkered around with it to give it a Mac OS X style interface, including global menu, like my previous GNOME desktops had. I find KDE to be one of the most easily configureable desktop environments around, probably more so than even the old GNOME 2. And I still run Unity now and then when I'm in the mood.

So yes, I wouldn't completely leave Ubuntu just because you don't like Unity. Read my signature. There are alternative desktop environments, all of them which can be installed from the Software Center or with SUDO APT-GET INSTALL. That's the true beauty of Ubuntu and other Ubuntu-based distros :)

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-07-26
Hi , 
i stay in title and answer "There is no vs" . You cannot compare 10.10 with 12.04. 
Ok , 10.10 was good (was my first release and i loved it) but now its dead. RIP. 

12.04 = New interface , new programs , new kernel , newer packages , 5 years of support , major bug fixes , better devices support.. 

Of course you can use anything you want (even 4.10) but what @stlsaint said it absolutely correct. 

If you don't like Unity there are more interfaces you can use , i prefer cinnamon as an alternative and of course the Rocket Desktop environment LXDE !! 

Thanks

---

### Post by yuvraj23 on 2012-07-26
Yes... Upgrade it with 12.04 and customize unity

---

### Post by yuvraj23 on 2012-07-26
There is a software called myunity in software center. You can use it :)

---

### Post by DGINSD on 2012-07-26
> **mastablasta said:**
> you can use Mate (a fork of old GNome2), Cinnamon or Gnome Fallback mode if you want to stay in Gnome, but do not want Unity or Gnome Shell.
You can use Xfce (xubuntu) which looks like old gnome and can be made to look exactly like old gnome as it offers numerous tweaking options.
You can use any of other DE (KDE, LXDE, E17, RazorQt...) and let's not even start with the windows managers (IceWM, Openbox, Fluxbox...)

Seconded, there are plenty of desktop environments out there if your not a fan of Unity. Personally I've really come to love Unity, after you get use to it and set certain shortcuts and screen triggers IMO it's the most efficient. The second one I like is Cinnamon for Linux Mint, kinda the incorporates the old gnome2 DE with a more modern twist (last I checked there was an issue with installing Cinnamon in Ubuntu 12.04) But Mint is a great distro and what I'd use if I were ever to leave Ubuntu)

---

### Post by inkameep on 2012-07-27
Thanks for the responses. I think I'll probably stick with 10.10 until 12.10 comes out. If the Ubuntu development team likes making frequent radical changes to the user interface, then maybe 12.10 will be another turning point and "Unity" will suddenly go the way of Gnome 2.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-07-27
> **inkameep said:**
> Thanks for the responses. I think I'll probably stick with 10.10 until 12.10 comes out. If the Ubuntu development team likes making frequent radical changes to the user interface, then maybe 12.10 will be another turning point and "Unity" will suddenly go the way of Gnome 2.
Not going to happen, 12.10 is already too far through it's development phase for that.
If you want to you can download a 12.10 Live CD and test it out now, they are updated every day with the latest packages.
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/)

---

### Post by marbertone on 2012-07-27
I can understand you, I also liked more the more customizability and reactiveness of Ubuntu 10.10 (for instance I was able to set a quick Special+T combo to open a Terminal, now I'm not able anymore even if I was very accustomed to) but, like other users told you, mind also the fact that you are using (10.10) a version which is not supported anymore while the 12.04 (to which I passed) is a LTS, which is not to underestimate. It means that you'll able to use it for 4 years even not upgrading it anymore! It is not few, if you think that 5 years is the average life of a laptop you use everyday for work (I mean 'serious laptop work', like programming, sshing and so on...).
Hope it helped!
Don't stay stuck in East-Germany like "Goodbye Lenin" :)
Cheers
Mario Alberto

---

### Post by yuvraj23 on 2012-07-27
Can you try installing either KDE or Gnome Environment? They are available at repositories.

```
 

sudo apt-get install kde-standard

                or

sudo apt-get install gnome


```


Thankx 
Yuvraj

---

### Post by thomsebastin on 2012-07-27
i installed kde over unity..at first i was confused..now i'm really enjoyin it..if you're really concerned about just customization you can give it a try..

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2012-07-27
> **inkameep said:**
> I've been using Ubuntu 10.10 for a year or two, and I'm very happy with it. However, I absolutely hate the new so-called Unity interface, because of its ugliness, non-intuitive navigation and loss of features, such as easy ability to change themes. My question is, what is the downside if I continue using 10.10? Will using a non-supported version put me at risk for security breaches? Will I still pick up updates to third-party things like Adobe Acrobat? I know you can configure 12.04 to use the old interface, but I also know there are bugs with the old interface and missing features.  

Feedback would be appreciated.

I can get 12.04 to behave quite like Gnome 2:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370)

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2012-07-27
> Will using a non-supported version put me at risk for security breaches?

Yes!

> Will I still pick up updates to third-party things like Adobe Acrobat?

No!

> I know you can configure 12.04 to use the old interface, but I also know there are bugs with the old interface and missing features. 

Nothing insurmountable, it's just a wee bit of a learning curve :)

---

### Post by muteXe on 2012-07-27
I was in the same position. Unfortunately I decided to leave ubuntu.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-07-27
With the 10 year old Gnome 2 no longer supported distributions that use it will eventually have to move to Mate or continue development with another fork. To continue to use Gnome 2 without improvements or security updates doesn't make sense. It was Gnome that ended development of Gnome 2 not Ubuntu.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2012-07-27
> **muteXe said:**
> I was in the same position. Unfortunately I decided to leave ubuntu.

You can always come back :D

Edit: We'll be glad to help you.

---

### Post by GreatDanton on 2012-07-27
Sure but you will have to wait until the newer release :D (I also left Ubuntu)

---

### Post by ranea on 2012-07-28
> **viperdvman said:**
> So yes, I wouldn't completely leave Ubuntu just because you don't like Unity. Read my signature. There are alternative desktop environments, all of them which can be installed from the Software Center or with SUDO APT-GET INSTALL. That's the true beauty of Ubuntu and other Ubuntu-based distros :)

I agree. I'm kind of asking myself these questions since I installed 12.04 in a brand new notebook and Unity feels so uncomfortable. So far I've tried several environments and none of them feel exactly like Gnome2, or you just want things to feel comfortable and easy to use.

However, from my personal experience I highly recommend making a full backup before you try any new desktops since I've had some pretty awkward situations with, for example, XFCE just dying on me.

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2012-07-28
> **inkameep said:**
> Thanks for the responses. I think I'll probably stick with 10.10 until 12.10 comes out. If the Ubuntu development team likes making frequent radical changes to the user interface, then maybe 12.10 will be another turning point and "Unity" will suddenly go the way of Gnome 2.

And why are we responsing to you again?

Please, save us the trouble of bug-ridden softwares and security issues and install GNOME Classic on 12.04. If you still want to rant, do so on GNOME. Canonical did not kill GNOME 2, GNOME did.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-07-28
Hi, please stay on topic, this is not an unity bashing thread.
Thanks

---

### Post by |{urse on 2012-07-28
UNITY ROCKS WOo0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0oo!!

:popcorn:

---

### Post by Lyfang on 2012-07-28
> **inkameep said:**
> My question is, what is the downside if I continue using 10.10? Will using a non-supported version put me at risk for security breaches? Will I still pick up updates to third-party things like Adobe Acrobat?
Debian 6.0 Squeeze (stable) is using GNOME 2.30 & is currently supported. Then you could install the Ubuntu Ambiance theme on Debian: [Ubuntu’s Ambiance/Radiance gtk themes for Debian]("http://www.funzt.info/?p=474"). You can download Google Chrome & use Google's repositories. That means that your browser will be up-to-date (as long as Google will update their repositories). However there is still a problem with using a non-supported Ubuntu version: the Linux kernel may have vulnerabilities that will not be patched by Ubuntu anymore.

---

### Post by ub07 on 2012-07-28
As has been pointed out numerous times, you don't have to use Unity if you don't want to. For example, on one of my computers I installed Kubuntu. But then just because I wanted to, I installed the Ubuntu and Xubuntu desktops and Gnome using, e.g. sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop. Now I can choose among KDE, Gnome, and Xfce depending on my mood. I almost never use Unity. You can upgrade to 12.04 and choose your interface.

---

### Post by Lyfang on 2012-07-28
> **ub07 said:**
> As has been pointed out numerous times, you don't have to use Unity if you don't want to. For example, on one of my computers I installed Kubuntu. But then just because I wanted to, I installed the Ubuntu and Xubuntu desktops and Gnome using, e.g. sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop. Now I can choose among KDE, Gnome, and Xfce depending on my mood. I almost never use Unity. You can upgrade to 12.04 and choose your interface.

How does this help inkameep? inkameep was talking about keeping the GNOME 2 interface. MATE is based upon GNOME 2. inkameep check out: [INSTALL MINT MATE 1.2 DESKTOP IN UBUNTU 12.04 PRECISE]("http://www.noobslab.com/2012/06/install-mint-mate-12-desktop-in-ubuntu.html") (at your own risk as usual)

---

### Post by lolpenguin on 2012-07-28
> **inkameep said:**
> Thanks for the responses. I think I'll probably stick with 10.10 until 12.10 comes out. If the Ubuntu development team likes making frequent radical changes to the user interface, then maybe 12.10 will be another turning point and "Unity" will suddenly go the way of Gnome 2.

Oh you'll absolutely _hate_ 12.10. I'm more tolerant on these things, but GNOME 3.6 kills it all. I can't even use Nautilus any more.

Debian 6 is still stable, so you can still enjoy GNOME 2 for a while. If you wan't a newer distro, then upgrade to 12.04 and install MATE. Add this to /etc/apt/sources.list, preferably at the end.
```
deb http://packages.mate-desktop.org/repo/ubuntu precise main
deb-src http://packages.mate-desktop.org/repo/ubuntu precise main

```
Then run
```
sudo apt-get update
```
You will get an error about no public key available.
```
sudo apt-get install mate-archive-keyring
```
This will install the GnuPG keys for the repo. It isn't an authenticated packages because of the above error.```
sudo apt-get update
```
```
sudo apt-get install mate-core
```
This will install the core MATE components
```
sudo apt-get install mate-desktop-environment
```
This will install extra MATE components.

The big difference is that packages have different names (nautilus - caja, gedit - pluma) and GNOME is MATE (gnome-system-monitor - mate-system-monitor, gnome-terminal, mate-terminal)

Or you can install the GNOME panel, but this isn't a long term solution.
```
sudo apt-get gnome-session-fallback
```
Basic functionality is the same, but you have to Alt + Right click to access panel and applet options (and use GNOME 3 applications).

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2012-07-29
> Or you can install the GNOME panel, but this isn't a long term solution.

Why do you say it's not a long term solution? It works well for me in 12.04 and 12.04 is supported until April 2017.

---

### Post by lolpenguin on 2012-07-29
GNOME will eventually get rid of the fallback. It's not something that is being actively developed.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2012-07-29
> **lolpenguin said:**
> GNOME will eventually get rid of the fallback. It's not something that is being actively developed.

But I'd think it will remain working in Precise until April 2017, that's a long term solution to me :)

Beyond that many things could, and undoubtedly will, happen. For instance SolusOS is currently working on a Gnome 3 classic edition (currently focusing on Metacity but also expanding to the use of Compiz).

And since SolusOS is based on Debian most of the "code" will exist so I'd bet between that and Mate someone will have a great "classic" solution by 2017 :)

I personally plan on focusing on Lubuntu due to the simplicity of PCManFM and LXDE because I'm not too crazy about some of the latest changes to Nautilus. I'd love to see a 3 year Lubuntu LTS in April 2014 :guitar:

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-07-29
10.04 is not EOL, yet still got till next april IIRC
i put mint 13 XFCE (xfce 4.10) on my laptop , even managed to get compiz to my liking via unsupported tactics (my layout is like gnome2, and i don't use mintmenu)
xf-applet lets me get a few more applets from mate (namely sensors)

i plan to keep using 10.04 till it is EOL, then it is looking like it will be xfce for me

in xfce shimmer themes is fixed in 12.10

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2012-07-29
> **inkameep said:**
> Thanks for the responses. I think I'll probably stick with 10.10 until 12.10 comes out. If the Ubuntu development team likes making frequent radical changes to the user interface, then maybe 12.10 will be another turning point and "Unity" will suddenly go the way of Gnome 2.

I don't believe I'd count on that.  And 12.10 being a non-LTS release, will reach EOL before 12.04.  There are so many alternatives - live USB installs are your friend.  Try 'em 'til you find one you like.  If you've been watching the news, Microsoft is changing user interfaces and it isn't a move back to Win 98.

---

### Post by TeamRocket1233c on 2012-07-29
Since you don't like Unity, three words: Kubuntu, Lubuntu, or Xubuntu. All three are great alternatives to the default Unity spin of Ubuntu, and I actually sorta wanna use Xubuntu one of these days, since it looks really nice.

---

### Post by dodo3773 on 2012-07-29
> **kurt18947 said:**
>  There are so many alternatives - live USB installs are your friend.  Try 'em 'til you find one you like.  

I disagree with this. Only because I think reformatting my usb over and over messed it up. That being said I do agree with the idea and the spirit of what is being said. You should try different window managers until you find one you really like. If you want to use gnome2 then you have to use mate. Really no other option out there. Mate is a fork of gnome2 that is meant not to conflict with existing gnome applications / libraries. So if you want a system that is gnome2 and is up to date there you go. Personally I just went to openbox. Couldn't be happier. Looking back now I am glad I was forced to get out there and find what I truly wanted.

---

