---
title: "My Users and Groups are EMPTY at users-admin!"
date: 2010-10-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by elchapugabriel on 2010-10-31
This is happening now to me, that Users and Groups are EMPTY!

"When I go into System > Admin > User and Groups and then unlock and manage my list, it is completely empty. How can I fix this?? I've never had this happen to me before.

Yet, if I go into a terminal and type groups, I can see my list of groups! Very frustrating!

Thanks for any help!"

I've also verified the integrity of the group files with the grpck command in a terminal.

Code:
```
sudo grpck -r
```

I've read that no output == good, and I got no output.

Also, in /var/lib/polkit-1/ and /etc/polkit-1/localauthority.conf.d/ all the files that should contain data are almost empty.

They look as follows:

/etc/polkit-1/localauthority.conf.d/50-localauthority.conf:
```

# Configuration file for the PolicyKit Local Authority.
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE, it will be overwritten on update.
#
# See the pklocalauthority(8) man page for more information
# about configuring the Local Authority.
#

[Configuration]
AdminIdentities=unix-user:0
```

---
and... 51-ubuntu-admin.conf:

```

[Configuration]
AdminIdentities=unix-group:admin
```

---

and ... /etc/polkit-1/nullbackend.conf.d/50-nullbackend.conf:


```
#
# Configuration file for the PolicyKit null backend.
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE, it will be overwritten on update.
#
# To change configuration, create another file in this directory with
# a filename that is sorted after the 50-nullback.conf and make
# sure it has the .conf extension.
#
# Only a single configuration item, Priority, is supported.
#
# See the PolicyKit documentation for more information about PolicyKit.
#

[Configuration]
Priority=-10
```

----

...and /var/lib/polkit-1/localauthority/10-vendor.d/com.ubuntu.desktop.pkla

```

[Mounting, checking, etc. of internal drives]
Identity=unix-group:admin
Action=org.freedesktop.udisks.filesystem-*;org.freedesktop.udisks.drive-ata-smart*
ResultActive=yes

[Change CPU Frequency scaling]
Identity=unix-group:admin
Action=org.gnome.cpufreqselector
ResultActive=yes

[Setting the clock]
Identity=unix-group:admin
Action=org.gnome.clockapplet.mechanism.*;org.kde.kcontrol.kcmclock.save
ResultActive=yes

```
----

Am I wrong, or the content of those directories is too empty?
And, when i do gksu users-admin, it does not show any user, but I have my own user since and I'm logged in with it. The system works, but in the past I was able to add and remove users from the groups inside users-admin, not any more...

Help Me!! It's some new policy that I am not aware, in maverick?

How do I access to manage my Users/Groups? 

I tested 


```
sudo grpck

```

but it's of no use, it outputs nothing.

---

### Post by kwd on 2010-11-01
I had a similar problem.  I needed to access and edit some "system users" and the users-admin program supplied by 10.10 only showed my personal administrative account.  

I tried "sudo users-admin hoping for total administrative access to users and groups--but the window never finished loading--nor could you get rid of it by any means other than logging out and then back in.

After a lot of googling and experimenting this is how I finaly was able to manage ALL users and groups used on the system:

(This is only an outline.  If you don't understand it then 1 - you either need to study more before you attempt this or 2 - you shouldn't be doing it.)

First - I created a root password.

Second - I installed KUser (a KDE app) using Synaptic.

Third - In a terminal  I executed "su -" and used the root password created earlier, when asked for a password.

Fourth - In the same terimal I executed "sudo kuser"

Bingo - I got access to all groups and users.

Observations:

I did not try "su -" before I created a root password so I don't know if it will work without it.

If you only execute "kuser" it doesn't work.  Interestingly enough when you use "sudo kuser" it doesn't ask for a password.

I am using Ubuntu 10.10 with some KDE apps installed.  If you don't have any KDE apps installed whne you install KUser there will be a lot of other programs installed at the same time it is.  This will not turn your desktop into a KDE system but it will let you use individual KDE apps under Gnome.

Good luck, and remember I am not responsible for anything you break by using my "method". :)

IMO the "anti-root" Nazis are painting themselves into a corrner.  The more they block and constrain things to "protect" us from our "freedom of choice" the harder it gets for them to write the code and then more bugs and problems (like this one) slip into the distribution.

I'm retired now, and have 45 years of experience with managing people.  One of the things I learned over the years was that people don't learn from being advised as to how it "should oughta" be done, nor does using fences to protect them from every possible mistake teach them how to be careful and think before they act (it just makes them careless and the results of the eventual mistakes much larger).

People learn from making mistakes and the more painful the mistake the longer they remember the lesson.

Linux was originally billed as an attempt to create a computer system that could me improvied by users to where it would do anything they wanted.  That seems to be being displaced by "Do it my way or go elsewhere". Sad but I have see this happen many times, in many fields, over the years.

---

