---
title: "Ubuntu fails to boot after update"
date: 2010-10-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ultrastevep on 2010-10-04
I am an absolutely newbie in using linux. Several weeks ago I installed the Netbook remix with Wubi on my new HP mini 110 and it's been great. I loved it and was telling everyone how fast it is and how easy it is to use, then one night that small folder was flashing to do an update, which I did and now when I select Unbuntu to load on the dual boot screen, it just keeps going back to that, I give up and go back to my W7.

Is there an easy quick fix to this without reloading the Ubuntu?

This was my fear with running linux, that it would mess up and I'd have no idea what to do. I'm glad I at least still have Windows to go back to...I was so happy with using Ubuntu that I was thinking of switching over completely and wiping Windows off of my netbook, now I'll never take that step.

Thanks,
Steve

---

### Post by Djalmahal on 2010-10-04
Boot from a USB Stick and type in the terminal


 sudo grub-mkconfig


You might have to install a program for that to work, just post the output here.

Nothing will happen, it will just check what OS's are installed on the hard drive.

---

### Post by ultrastevep on 2010-10-04
I'll have to figure out how to boot from a USB stick, I have it installed on my hard drive. Let me figure that out and I'll post what comes from that command.

---

### Post by Djalmahal on 2010-10-04
Does your computer have a CD-Drive?
If not you can use UNetbootin, here is a link that explains it
[http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/linux/create-a-bootable-ubuntu-usb-flash-drive-the-easy-way/](http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/linux/create-a-bootable-ubuntu-usb-flash-drive-the-easy-way/)
Then once you got this done, restart your computer and within the first seconds something called the BIOS comes up, press something like F12 or ESC (should be mentioned in the bottom of the screen), then you should be able to choose from where your computer boots up, choose USB (or if you have it from CD)

---

### Post by ultrastevep on 2010-10-04
Wow, that's great....thanks for your help! Once I do this I will post what you asked.

---

### Post by Djalmahal on 2010-10-04
I just did some research, it looks like the command might not work.
What the command does is search all partitions for OS's and put's out a list of those, WUBI installs Ubuntu in a Virtual Disk, not a partition as such, there it probably won't work.

Wubi does an unconventional thing, it installs it in a Virtual Drive, not a partition which would be the solid option to implement Dual Boot.

Nevertheless as you are already on your way, let's try it.

Was the "small folder update" in windows or Ubuntu?
If the before-mentioned procedure doesn't work there seems to be another way, namely to move the Virtual Disk of Ubuntu inside Windows to a separate partition.

---

### Post by ultrastevep on 2010-10-05
The small flashing folder update was in Ubuntu. Then the next day when I rebooted, it wouldn't boot into Ubuntu, so it's a Ubuntu update issue, I'm sure. Windows runs fine.

So I did use Unetbootin and now have it installed on my flash drive, but (now you'll really think I'm an idiot) can't seem to get the boot screen to come up in order to boot from the flash drive, but that I can Google and figure out. But then won't I still have Unbuntu loaded on my Netbook from the earlier install?

Guess i now need to know what is the best way to have Ubuntu and windows. Is the Wubi option not the best? Keep windows and boot from flash drive? If so how do I get rid of the old Ubuntu install?

Thanks,
Steve :confused:

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-10-05
there is a bug in wubi installs now caused by a grub2 update. The new grub.cfg is incompatible with the wubildr and results in a reboot (symptoms differ, sometimes you see unknown command: loadfont or gfxterm etc.)

So, you can get around it by loopmounting your wubi root.disk and editing the grub.cfg, deleting everything above the first 'menuentry'. It's not a fix, but works around the issue.

See the [wubi guide]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide#How can I access my Wubi install and repair my install if it won't boot?") on how to loop mount a wubi root.disk and then "gksudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg" to edit. And note that it says "Do not edit this file" - basically it gets updated automatically so try and avoid updates to grub-pc, installing/uninstalling kernels or running "sudo update-grub" - these will all cause it to be updated.

If you can run the [bootinfoscript]("bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net") I can give you specific loop mounting instructions. (You will need to get the USB booting to do any of this, of course).

---

### Post by ultrastevep on 2010-10-05
I am lost now....I can get it to boot from the USB, but it wants to install it and I'm concerned that it might overwrite my windows and not dual boot. 

Andreas, you mentioned "Virtual Disk", but I do not see that option when I press F9 for the boot screen.

I wish there was a way to just fix my original install, it was working great!

---

