---
title: "11.04 and how to map to a Apple Airport Extreme Drive"
date: 2011-08-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Alphax45 on 2011-08-25
Hi All  I am seriously considering switching to Linux this coming weekend so I thought I would try it out on a USB stick before I took the full plunge and deleted my Windows partition. 

All seems well - I can get all my pod-casts that I am currently subscribed to via iTunes an alternate method however I have one issue.  In our house we have a 1 TB external HDD hooked up to an Apple Airport Extreme and I can not for the life of me figure out how to map to it.  

When in Windows I can just map to: \\192.168.0.10\OurStuff as the "Z" drive. I am then prompted to enter the user ID (Admin) and password (****). 

I have searched around and can't seem to find a simple guide on how to do this in Linux.  This is basically the last piece of the puzzle for me to make the plunge so any help is very appreciated.

I am somewhat comfortable with using the terminal but I will need the commands in full, not just which ones to use.

I know in time I will learn this all on my own but all of the files I use on a daily basis are on that drive.  

Thank You

K

---

### Post by LowSky on 2011-08-26
this should so it.

[http://www.automaticable.com/2008-01-18/how-to-mount-a-network-drive-in-ubuntu/](http://www.automaticable.com/2008-01-18/how-to-mount-a-network-drive-in-ubuntu/)

---

### Post by Alphax45 on 2011-08-27
I FINALLY DID IT! (sorry for the caps)

The page you gave me was helpful and I did a lot more reading on my own.

This is what worked: 

//192.168.0.11/Our\040Stuff /media/Ourstuff smbfs user=admin,password=****** 0 0

It was the space in the share name that was the hardest thing to figure out

Thanks!

---

