---
title: "8.10 Desktop not loading,"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kerpow on 2008-11-07
Hi, I have had the previous two versions of Ubuntu running on my system with no problems, but when I went to upgrade (clean install) to 8.10 I became unstuck.

Here are my symptoms: 

When I boot up the LiveCD with all default options, the system stops with the ‘skin’ coloured background (no wallpaper image), nothing else on the screen except the mouse pointer (that still moves). The keyboard lights for CapsLock etc don’t work. I have left the system running for a while and there is no change, its crashed. 

If I just go for an install without booting the LiveCD, the install process works, looks great, I see all the new graphics etc, then when the system does its final reboot, I get a login screen. Once I login I get the same as when I boot the LiveCD. It’s crashed.

OK, yes it all works in safe graphics mode. But the part I don’t understand is why can I get the installer and the login screen to work in ‘non-safe’ mode (full res) but not the regular desktop?

So why is this a problem with 8.10 and none of the others? I am using a Dell Dimension 2400 with a built in Intel graphics chip. It obviously has the capability to work, its just not with 8.10 

I am willing to put the hard yards in to fix this problem, but I am a little stumped where to start. I have played around with xorg.conf but have to confess to not knowing what I am doing or why !

Cheers

(re-posted from Dell Support section.)

---

### Post by meindian523 on 2008-11-07
Try going into Safe Mode and check whether there are any restricted drivers you would need to install.And,did this system work fine with 8.04?Also,please post the link to the thread in the Dell Support Section,so we can avoid covering ground and possible issues which have already been tried.

---

### Post by kerpow on 2008-11-07
Hi,

Yes I have 8.04 running now and all looks great I can even get compiz working!  When I click System > Administration > Hardware Drivers it says 'No propritory direvers in use' on both 8.04 and 8.10.

Here is the link in the Dell section (no answers at the time of posting :| )

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=973609](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=973609)

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2008-11-07
Well, it would help if we knew what hardware you're using.  

8.10 Intrepid has by default "eye candy" "animation" code called compiz.  For many many users 8.04 Hardy worked fine.

In 8.10 compiz uses a video graphics code path not used by any other code.  This path does not work as compiz expected for many Intel graphics resulting in a black or tan screen with cursor when the desktop should have loaded.

A workaround for this:

Boot in rescue mode.  That's the second line on the screen.
At the menu, select:
root shell prompt
At the command line type:
sudo apt-get remove compiz compiz-core
Answer Y when asked
exit
resume

This works for many people.  Depending on what hardware you have, there are some other things to try.  A more complete explanation of the compiz situation is in Launchpad Bug #259385.

Good luck.  Jerry

---

### Post by meindian523 on 2008-11-07
Um,do you mean you downgraded and don't wish to get 8.10 working with your system?If yes,please mark the thread solved.If not,that's the maximum I can help you,anyway.:)

---

### Post by kerpow on 2008-11-07
Hi 'meindian523', no, I reverted back to 8.04 so I could carry on working.  I will try again to upgrade again to 8.10 with the ideas from 'jerrylamos' but I will miss the eye candy.  I guess Ubuntu just out-grew my PC.  Maybe its time to upgrade the hardware.

---

### Post by kerpow on 2008-11-07
jerrylamos: Its a Dell Dimension 2400 which aparently has an integrated Intel 3D Extreme Graphics chip.

---

### Post by kerpow on 2008-11-07
Yes yes, its all here:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/259385](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/259385)

So not solved yet, but there is a workaround.

---

