---
title: "10.10/11.04 on sony vaio c series?"
date: 2011-04-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kailynx on 2011-04-22
Hi everyone.

I've just acquired sony vaio c series and ubuntu unleashed 2011 book about three weeks ago. Maybe the book is quite tough for me right now but hopefully not in the long run. I'm kinda scared to experiment on my own without prior advice (due to warranty thingy and lack of confidence) so I'd appreciate if someone could guide me here.

My vaio specs can be found here: [http://www.sony.com.my/product/vpcca15fg/sku/vpcca15fg_b+e1](http://www.sony.com.my/product/vpcca15fg/sku/vpcca15fg_b+e1)

I'm kinda worried about the drivers and other configurations coz it got something like ATI catalyst auto-switchable graphic cards, other extra interfaces like shared slot for memory stick and SD memory card, microphone mini jack, etcs.

Also I'd like to know if it's possible to install using wubi on this old normal specs HP desktop machine:
Windows XP Professional SP2, Pentium D 3.4GHz, 488MB of RAM

Which one is better, dual-boot or wubi for my vaio? I'd like to know if it's possible to use flash drive to 'practise' ubuntu without installing it directly inside my vaio.

Thank you for the patient to help a newbie like me :)

---

### Post by Joe of loath on 2011-04-22
The biggest problem with the Sony is the graphics card, the auto-switch ones don't always work properly. I don't know much about them, though, you'll have to do some research.

The other hardware won't be a problem, it should all be supported out of the box. And no need to worry about warranty, since if it needs to go in for repair they make you remove the hard drive first ;)

Basically, I'd recommend a regular dual boot. It makes it easier to migrate to Ubuntu only if you decide you like it. You can also install ubuntu to a flash drive for testing, just boot the live CD and use the USB startup disk creator in settings > administration.

On the HP I'd recommend Lubuntu dual booted. Wubi will be a little too slow.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-04-22
The problem that folks have generally reported with the auto-switch graphics is that, in order to get that to work with Ubuntu, they have to disable onboard graphics -- and they have not found a way to do that.

If yours has a way to disable the onboard graphics, you should be OK.

Also, the only REAL way to tell how well your PC will run Ubuntu is to boot from the LiveCD and try it.

---

### Post by kailynx on 2011-04-23
Really thank you senpai-tachi (seniors) for the information. I think I should read more and then start trying it so that I can overcome my 'fear' of switching from win7 to ubuntu. :)

---

### Post by sagarthegreat1 on 2011-05-02
There exists a real issue with vaio c series n natty narwhal..
everything is fine & dandy the first time you boot after installation ,
But after that, It gets suspended mid-boot, leaving me with an ugly stack trace splattered with radeon all over.
tried it thrice withubuntu 10.04 x64 & once with edubuntu 11.04 x64
If anybody has a solution in sight, please help

(It runs perfectly in live boot though)

---

### Post by HUGE17 on 2011-06-29
I have the exact same laptop and struggling to set up Ubuntu 10.04. If there is anyone that could help me I would really appreciate it. I am also very new to Linux too.

---

### Post by HUGE17 on 2011-06-29
Hmm I looked at this but I think its beyond me. Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by davidmason92 on 2011-07-15
I had the same problems running ubuntu 11.04 on my sony vaio C series.

It would occasionally boot fine but sometimes just get stuck on a blank screen, and yeah Radeon flashed all over.

Anyway, I did a straight reinstall and it's working fine now. Could be worth a try, no idea why it helped but it did.

The only problem now is trying to get bluetooth to work. tried installing bluez 4.69 (I heard that might help) but it really doesn't. I think it might be a problem with the laptop's bluetooth adaptor, it can't seem to find it.

---

