---
title: "Can't auto mount my 1TB hard drive to view in the network"
date: 2010-01-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ECPCLINUX on 2010-01-14
Hi, I have created a server out of Ubuntu 9.10 Desktop 32BIT. It works fantastic. I wanted my secondary, third and fourth hard drives to mount automatically in case the system reboot, as last time my Internet went out and had to reboot it. Being able to auto-mount is very convenient since I have it in a corner in my home and it does not have a monitor, mouse, nor keyboard. To auto-mount I follow the instructions here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions/ThirdPartyNTFS3G](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions/ThirdPartyNTFS3G)

Since all 3 hard drives were Windows USB externals at one point they are formated with NTFS. By following the instructions from the site above I've been able to Auto-Mount all the hard drives when I reboot except my 1TB hard drive. Somehow it's not found with _ntfs configuration tools_. While I have a monitor attached to the server I can mount it by right clicking the 1TB hard drive and selecting Mount. Once mouted I can share it in the network.

This hard drive was formated with NTFS as the other hard drives. However, it was used originally in a  Nas external enclosure connedted by a RJ45 cable. Is this one here:

[http://cgi.ebay.com/3-5-USB-2-0-NAS-LAN-External-HARD-DRIVE-ENCLOSURE-CASE_W0QQitemZ160392315098QQcmdZViewItemQQptZPCC_Drives_Storage_Internal?hash=item25582080da](http://cgi.ebay.com/3-5-USB-2-0-NAS-LAN-External-HARD-DRIVE-ENCLOSURE-CASE_W0QQitemZ160392315098QQcmdZViewItemQQptZPCC_Drives_Storage_Internal?hash=item25582080da)

 I had to configure the 1TB hard drive, while on the Nas enclosure, like a router. It had it's own Address for the configuration page and it created a folder called Public. It's the only difference from the other hard drives. I have also notice the hard drive has a document called NASUDIR.CFG. Don't know what it is but it seems to have been created at the initial setup of the Nas enclosure. Windows says it associated with DynSte "DynSite is a dynamic DNS client also called an automatic IP updater"  I wonder if I should remove this .CFG file?

I really don't want to reformat it cause it would be a nightmare. It's almost full and I don't know if I even have enough space on the other hard drives to back it up.

Could someone please help me mount automatically this last hard drive (hopefully without formatting it) in the same system. All hard drive are sata internal hard drives not USB hard drives anymore.

**Last note,** in my attempt to mount the 1TB hard drive I tried VNC to access the Server from an Ubuntu and or a Windows 7 Machine. I was able to open it and view the server from either OS but When I click on say...Application nothing opens. When I check the Server I do see the menu for Application open on the server but not the Client. Did I install all this in reverse?,lol Well, for now I would be more than happy to just have this 1TB hard drive mount automatically. I would work on the VNC later.

---

### Post by xeross on 2010-01-14
You could atleast try to remove the config file (Just move it to somewhere else so you can put it back when you have any problems).

Other then this you can try modifying the fstab to automount.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-01-14
Please post the output of the following commands:

Open **Terminal**
Type **sudo blkid -c /dev/null**
Type [B]cat /etc/fstab

[/B]Note: For future reference, the ntfs kernel driver in Ubuntu is ntfs-3g. You don't need to specify "ntfs-3g" anymore , simply "ntfs" will do, as the two have been the same in ubuntu for more than a year now .

---

### Post by ECPCLINUX on 2010-01-14
Hi, I want to thank you both for your time and effort to help me. Here is what I got when I ran the commands:

ecpc@SERVER-PC:~$ sudo blkid -c /dev/null
/dev/sda1: UUID="b5b58444-f6df-49c2-b0d0-773abcd7f079" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sda5: UUID="45df943c-cea3-4fac-9e2e-69de68d99ab0" TYPE="swap" 
/dev/sdb5: UUID="5AF7061BCDF71EF9" LABEL="SEAGATE400GB" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sdc1: LABEL="1T NAS" TYPE="vfat" 
/dev/sdd1: UUID="319A1B2CDF47FD7B" LABEL="WD500GB" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sde1: UUID="58F726534B5BBE1B" LABEL="IDE200GB" TYPE="ntfs" 
ecpc@SERVER-PC:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=b5b58444-f6df-49c2-b0d0-773abcd7f079 / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=45df943c-cea3-4fac-9e2e-69de68d99ab0 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sde1 /media/IDE200GB ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb5 /media/SEAGATE400GB ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdd1 /media/WD500GB ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0


I'm no expert but when I saw the 1Tb hard drive aka 1t nas, it says vfat..Hummm??? I purchased that hard drive New unformatted and used Acronis in Windows to format it. I'm pretty sure I used NTFS, not Fat32. It would have made no sense...to me at least, to use fat32. So I figured I might have to reformat this drive. :( I estimated that I have just enough space on the other hard drives and can do this. I've just begun the transfer to the other hard drives. 

I found a tutorial for Mounting the a Fat drive but I rather just reformat it with a better files system which should handle bigger files better. I'm sorry I did not notice this hard drive was a vFat files system earlier. I will post here once I format it...hopefully this will solve all my problems with mounting.

My next task will be to figure why is it that I can see my server on my other computers but can't open anything, yet I see them opening in the server, very strange. Is my first try at this so I'll work on it for a while,lol Once more thank you for your help, if you have any more suggestion I would appreciate it.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-01-14
It's good that you're reformating that 1TB drive because there's something about the blkid output that looks a little strange.

>  /dev/sdc1: LABEL="1T NAS" TYPE="vfat" 

It has no UUID number. I don't recall if I've ever seen a partition without a UUID number before.

---

### Post by ECPCLINUX on 2010-01-14
Hello xeross & Morbius1, I transfered all the files onto the other hard drives and formatted the troubled hard drive using Gparted. I used NTFS and it work perfect. I tried to permanently mount it and it would not find it. So I restarted the system and tried it once more. This time it found the hard drive and it all went well. Once more thank you very much for all your help and patients. Morbius1 your suggestion made me see what was wrong. 

I'm very pleased with this system as is for now. Maybe in a few weeks I'll start to mess with it again. Gonna try to figure out my issue with VNC.  

Also, I shall try helping a friend (hopefully withing the next few months) build his Server with Ubuntu, he was waiting for me to figure out how to auto mount. :lolflag:

---

### Post by ECPCLINUX on 2010-01-14
Do you think the issue was because it was on the Nas external?

---

