---
title: "12.04 to 12.10 upgrade woes."
date: 2013-06-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Gnawnsense on 2013-06-13
Hello everyone,
With the success of Steam and updates to ATI drivers on Linux, I figured it'd be a good time to try switching over and seeing if it was yet in a state where a complete Linux noob (me) would be able to switch over and make some relatively easy progress in regards to the switch.

I chose to start with the 12.04 LTS and after install I had a brief hiccup during the first boot after the installation with a purple flashing screen. Googling turned up a fix for the problem and after that, it was fairly smooth sailing.

I wanted to try to upgrade to 13.04 to see the changes to Unity and after finding a few articles on OMG! Ubuntu about updating, I did it with the GUI within the operating system. After the update, the computer went to restart, and after the purple screen on startup, my monitor goes into a hibernation type state.

I Google'd this and was unable to find a solution. So I was just going to downgrade back to 12.04, but I needed to use my Live CD to back a handful of files up that was present in my 12.04 installation. When I put the live CD in, it mounted my 12.04 filesystem and I was able to pull most of what I need off of the computer onto a USB. However one folder tells me I do not have permissions to access it, so I cannot move it to the USB.

So now I'm at the point where I'm realizing that Ubuntu still requires far too much knowledge for just your typical computer user to be able to solve most things. I have a strong appreciation for Ubuntu, but the fit is not good for me. So I was going to try to reinstall Windows 8.

The problem I am running into is that I did the $14.99-ish upgrade from Windows 7 to Windows 8 and never got an install CD. I also don't have a recovery device for it, and my HP laptop uses a specific HP recovery utility, so I can't use it on my desktop.

I'm wondering if there's a way to either fix the issue I'm having with the folder not wanting to copy over during the Live CD due to permissions, but other files in the same location will. Or some kind of solution to fix the problem with my 12.10 upgrade going to a blank monitor during startup. 

I'm thinking going back to Windows 8 is in my best interest, but with Ubuntu wiping my recovery partition and having no recovery media, I'm not sure it's even a possibility.

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2013-06-13
> **Gnawnsense said:**
> When I put the live CD in, it mounted my 12.04 filesystem and I was able to pull most of what I need off of the computer onto a USB. However one folder tells me I do not have permissions to access it, so I cannot move it to the USB.

Hit F2 and run the command...
```
gksudo nautilus
```
to open the file manager with root permissions. This will let you copy anything you want from your installation.

What model graphics card do you have? ATI dropped support for all of the 2/4xxx series cards last year and so don't write drivers for them any more. If you have a 2/4xxx series card and need to use the closed source drivers (a requirement for Steam) then the latest version of Ubuntu you can use is 12.04.1.

---

### Post by Gnawnsense on 2013-06-13
> **Cheesemill said:**
> 
What model graphics card do you have? ATI dropped support for all of the 2/4xxx series cards last year and so don't write drivers for them any more. If you have a 2/4xxx series card and need to use the closed source drivers (a requirement for Steam) then the latest version of Ubuntu you can use is 12.04.1.

HD 6800. I had the drivers working great on 12.04 after the initial installation hiccup with the purple flashing screen, which I figured was just part of the ATI problems I hear about with Ubuntu and other distros.

[QUOTE=Cheesemill]
Hit F2 and run the command...[/QUOTE]

After going to terminal and entering in the nautilus command I get a pop-up that says:

[i]"Nautilus could not create the required folder "/root/.config/nautilus".

Before running Nautilus, please create the following folder, or set permissions such that Nautilus can create it.[/i]

---

### Post by Gnawnsense on 2013-06-13
So I ran the command again:
```
gksudo nautilus
```

This time it didn't bring up the error, it brought up the file explorer, but now I'm not even showing my HD as mounted. It's just showing the contents of the 12.04 Live CD now.

So, I went back to terminal and did the following (that I got from another thread):
```
cd 
mkdir mnt 
sudo mount /dev/sda1 mnt
```

And I can now see the contents of my hard-drive. When I navigate to My Documents, I can still access all my files except one folder that I need to backup to a USB/Ubuntu 1.

[I]"The conents of this folder could not be displayed.
You do not have the permissions necessary to view the conents of "My Stuff"[/I]

If I go back to Nautilus, it doesn't show the drive as mounted, unless I goto my regular Home Folder shortcut. For some reason, Nautilus is only reading the Live CD contents.

---

### Post by Gnawnsense on 2013-06-13
Made new thread with specific issue as this thread listed multiple that have since been worked out elsewhere and is now difficult to follow:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2154136&p=12689675#post12689675](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2154136&p=12689675#post12689675)

---

