---
title: "Can't view some sites"
date: 2008-11-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Rokurosv on 2008-11-19
I was browsing calmly and all of the sudden I couldn't view google, I wondered what could it be and then I tried going to the opendns site, I use opendns, and it wouldn't load, so my first guess was that OpenDNS was down. Change the prepend domain servers in my dhcpclient.conf file to the dns servers that my modem has configured. Now I can view google but I still can't view some sites like: distrwatch, linux.com, howtoforge, and others. I had this problem back in windows a while ago and it fixed itself after a while. Tried going back to Windows and the same problem. So I'm guessing that the problem is not my machine but maybe my ISP? I haven't done anything with Ubuntu except remove some TTYs and download Flock. That's it. 

here's the output for my resolv.conf
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain lan
search lan
nameserver 201.247.155.225
nameserver 201.247.157.225
nameserver 192.168.1.1
# NOTE: the libc resolver may not support more than 3 nameservers.
# The nameservers listed below may not be recognized.
nameserver 168.243.165.225
nameserver 168.243.165.226

```

---

### Post by Rokurosv on 2008-11-19
Emm it all works now, like I said it happened before so I'm guessing I should contact my ISP to ask them.

---

### Post by w4ett on 2008-11-19
I've had issues like yours in the past and to correct them, I've had to turn off my equipment (cable modem and voip modem included) and reboot them sequentially.....  cable modem, voip, and computer...in that order waiting until each has initialized completely before booting the next one.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-19
I would remove your router and the bottom two DNS addresses as it says in the error message.

Jim

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-11-19
Seems like your ISP reset itself, usually happens in my neighborhhod around noon each day, it can be kinda annoying, but "its their procedure to ensure highest quallity high speed internet" thats what they told me

---

### Post by Rokurosv on 2008-11-19
Yeah I just find it weird that it doesn't happen all the time, I think the bottom addresses are cause the Network Manager is still configured to fetch the DNS servers from the modem or something I'll tweak around with it and see how it goes. I hate the fact that I can't change the DNS setting on my modem.

---

