---
title: "[8.04.1(yea i know)] kinit: No resume image, doing normal boot...."
date: 2012-01-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by 8.04.1dude on 2012-01-10
turned on my computer today and got this message when it should have gone to the login gui

> Starting up ...
Loading, please wait...
kinit: name_to_dev_t (/dev/disk/by-uuid/8f4f4ee0-6e7a-4042-b4d3-09911b9f50d0) = s
da5 (8,5)
kinit: trying to resume from /dev/disk/by-uuid/8f4f4ee0-6e7a-4042-b4d3-09911b9f50d0
kinit: No resume image, doing normal boot...

Ubuntu 8.04.1 atranor tty1

atranor login:
gnome-desktop appears to be installed.


btw could you keep it newbie friendly, i'm not too advanced

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-01-10
Sounds like something messed up coming out of hibernate. It should all be good again if you reboot.

---

### Post by 8.04.1dude on 2012-01-10
thought so. i did reboot it a couple of times earlier. Still getting the error.

the computer did overheat yesterday(it has auto shutoff so no hardware was destroyed.)

---

### Post by ptn107 on 2012-01-10
Try:
```
sudo service plymouth start
```
?

---

### Post by 8.04.1dude on 2012-01-11
okay so after boot-up i pressed esc and selected a recovery mode kernel. somehow after that, a little menu popped up giving options to do a normal boot(useless because 'normal boot' would just try to recover from hibernation again), fix broken packages, fix xserver...

fix xserver didn't seem to work. fix broken packages said that it would take up 300-some megs of disk space. I tried it.
It only took a few seconds. 
Odd...
Usually 300 megs take a bit longer than that!
next, i am welcomed by a black screen... and a cursor! This time i got to the gui login instead of the shell login.

I logged into an account and got numerous amounts of the same error, but for different applications
> An error occurred while loading or saving configuration information for 
[different application names will show at this part.]
> Some of your configuration settings may not work properly.
it's correct 
there are some graphical errors in places.
anyway, i switched to Kubuntu. I still got errors but the taskbar works...
i'm pretty much able to surf the web. good for now.
i think i'll just mark this as solved. i'll try a reinstall and see if that helps.

---

