---
title: "NVidia X Server  disabled display configuration"
date: 2013-01-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Ben_222 on 2013-01-30
Hi, I have an older Athlon XP 2.0GHz computer,and I just installed Ubuntu 12.04. I loaded the driver for the NVidia video card from the Software Center. When I bring up the NVidia XServer settings,and go to the display configuration,the configuration shows "disabled". If I try to change it to "separate X screen", and save to an xconfig file,it never works, and always goes back to disabled. I do know that I am in 1024x768 resolution,which is what I want. But I think the disabled configuration is keeping me from playing an online game from playing  Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-01-31
Need much more info about your system...

What is your video chip? Video Memory? System RAM? Native screen resolution? What game are you trying to play?

Is the driver shown as active in "Additional Drivers"? If so, it will have a green light beside the driver. If it is not active, what error messages are produced when you try to activate it?

---

### Post by Ben_222 on 2013-01-31
Duckhook....video card is also an oldie,a GeForce 5200 Ultra(126M ram).Yes, the driver is activated(green light is on).  I had been using this dinosaur to play QuakeLive(a First person shooter) using Ubuntu 10.4,and it played great on it.And this pc only has 512MB ram.But I decided to go ahead and change to 12.04 since 10.04 support ends soon.I tried Peppermint and Mint 14 before trying 12.04,and the same thing happened when I tried to connect to QuakeLive....the video will not show up,but I can hear the sound from the game. I think it may have to do with this "disabled" thing....although I know I have 1024 x768,cause I went to uperbWallpapers, and it showed I have it.1024x758 is native. Everything else, including video works great on this,except QuakeLive. ...I am on a Windows pc now...soon I may give results from the config file,if you or someone else needs it

---

### Post by BlinkinCat on 2013-01-31
Hi,

If you have a terminal copy/paste then run the following command -

```
 
/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p

```You will need all results to be "yes" if your machine is capable of running Unity.

Good luck - :)

---

### Post by omeomi on 2013-01-31
Which driver do you have activated?

---

### Post by Ben_222 on 2013-01-31
Omeomi...cool nic,lol....driver 173.14.35(the recommended one) is activated

hmmm,the Unity test showed that "not blacklisted" is a NO, and Unity 3D support is a NO...but I am using Gnome classic.Also,the same thing with the game happened with Xubuntu,and Peppermint OS 3 on the same pc...so, I'm thinking the problem with the game is not Unity related.

---

### Post by BlinkinCat on 2013-01-31
oops Ben_222,

When you mentioned that you had installed 12.04, I assumed you meant Unity.

Oh well, nothing lost.

Cheers - :P

---

### Post by ayenack on 2013-01-31
Are you oppening Nvidia Settings as root?

If not open a terminal and try:-

```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by Ben_222 on 2013-01-31
[ayenack]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=195324")...ok, I tried opening a root from a terminal,then I clicked on the diabled,and "separate X screen" came up,then the resolution tab came up.I set it to 1024x768. Here the "apply" button is not available,it is greyed out. I still clicked on "Save to Xconfiguration file",,,,window come up with "preview","and    /etc/X11/xorg.conf as the file, and I left checked "merge with exiting file"...Then I restarted the Xserver....and it went back to "disabled"...I,m thinking the "apply" button has got to be available, which is isnt. I wonder if I would have the same problem if I changed to another driver version. But I don't see why,I have used this driver on this machine on two different Ubuntu's,9.1 and 10.04

---

### Post by Ben_222 on 2013-01-31
Here is the config file....

      # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 295.33  (buildd@zirconium)  Fri Mar 30 13:38:49 UTC 2012

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Thu May 31 12:36:44 PDT 2012

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "hp vx74"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200 Ultra"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "1024x768 +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "Separate X Screen" "0"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-01-31
It doesn't surprise me that you were able to play QuakeLive on 10.04, and can no longer do so on 12.04. On most of the newer DEs, significant graphics resources are being diverted to running the DE itself, thus leaving less for apps like games. I've found that even on classic desktops like Gnome Classic, Ubuntu seems to install into a state that assumes you will be using Unity at any moment and hogs system resources for it in anticipation. I have older laptops on which an Ubuntu install blows chunks, but a Lubuntu install works just fine.

You might consider Lubuntu for your machine. This is a lightweight distro designed for just the sort of machine you are running. Everything is still 2D and, most of all, it doesn't seem to be designed in anticipation of a 3D DE. I run Lubuntu on an old laptop almost identical to yours and it runs quickly and problem-free. Other lightweight distros you may want to explore are Crunchbang (I was able to get it installed and running on a system with 32MB graphics and 256MB system memory), Puppy Linux or even Tiny Core (though this last is rather Spartan and may not suit your needs).

Re: your xorg.conf: xorg parameters are mostly beyond me and must wait for the graphics gurus on this forum, but I am puzzled by the metamodes options which do not seem at all necessary. I am also highly sceptical of the separate X window. Why on earth would you need it? I think that your system should be running on its native X window with a straightforward and simple xorg.conf, but you must take my comments with a grain of salt because I'm no X expert.

---

