---
title: "9.10 Suspend/ Hibernation Wifi Issues"
date: 2010-02-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by to25 on 2010-02-17
Ok I just reinstall Karmic because I had to install an XP partition for school on my laptop. When ever I put it in Suspend or Hibernate mode and restart it the wifi connection is disabled. I am using a B43 driver and in Hardware Drivers it appears to be active, but the wifi signal light on my laptop is no longer lit and the wifi signal bars in the panel are disabled. I have to constantly disable the driver and then re-enable it. I don't remember this happening before. Does anyone have any suggestions on how to correct this?

I have already tried the "change Stop Service" method, but to no avail.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-02-17
Try checking if the module is loaded with **lsmod b43** or whatever the module is. Also, reloading the module might help.

---

### Post by to25 on 2010-02-17
How do I do that? If you mean:

sudo modprobe b43 fwcutter

I have done that to activate it.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-02-17
To check if the two modules are loaded, use **lsmod | grep 'b43\|fwcutter'** ...

---

### Post by to25 on 2010-02-19
Sorry I didn't get back earlier, but this is what I got

b43                   122168  0 
mac80211              181140  1 b43
cfg80211               93052  2 b43,mac80211
led_class               4096  1 b43
ssb                    35364  1 b43

I don't really know what I am looking at but it seems to be loaded, but if I put it into hibernate or suspend then it will disable the b43 driver.

I do occasionally receive a error message "Failure to fetch key http:// us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/"...b43 fwcutter. The b43 fwcutter part is in the error message.

---

