---
title: "new desktop"
date: 2011-10-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2011-10-29
I have been playing around with different DEs and am pretty OK with xfce in 11.10 but is there a way to have the menus show all the apps from gnome and unity when running xfce? Also is there any way to make a larger mouse cursor lxde is also of interest. I am interested in feedback for the most productive (not slick) DE for Ubuntu 11.10, unity isn't my style at all nor is gnome 3.Thank you
OK here are 2 screenshots of xfce in Ubuntu 11.10  with about an hour of learning the panels rules etc let me know what you think.

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-10-29
> **cmcanulty said:**
> I have been playing around with different DEs and am pretty OK with xfce in 11.10 but is there a way to have the menus show all the apps from gnome and unity when running xfce? Also is there any way to make a larger mouse cursor lxde is also of interest. I am interested in feedback for the most productive (not slick) DE for Ubuntu 11.10, unity isn't my style at all nor is gnome 3.Thank you

There are two ways to get different DEs in *buntus.

1. Get the native *buntu-Lubuntu for LXDE, Xubuntu for xfce, Ubuntu for Unity/GNOME, Kubuntu for KDE.

2. Install the *buntu desktop package in one of the above. For instance, If i wanted LXDE on Ubuntu:

```
sudo apt-get install lubuntu-desktop
```



Assuming you took the bottom option, all apps from any other DE should show up (so you should get Leafpad and Gedit, Firefox and Chromium, Thunderbird and Sylpheed.)

As for a larger mouse, isn't there a mouse-settings dialog somewhere? I'll check on my Lubuntu pc downstairs tommmorow, but it's 2AM here and I need sleep.

---

### Post by JC Cheloven on 2011-10-29
> **cmcanulty said:**
> I have been playing around with different DEs and am pretty OK with xfce in 11.10 but is there a way to have the menus show all the apps from gnome and unity when running xfce? 
Not sure what you mean here. Regular installed apps should appear in the menu at xfce4-panel.

> Also is there any way to make a larger mouse cursor lxde is also of interest. I am interested in feedback for the most productive (not slick) DE for Ubuntu 11.10, unity isn't my style at all nor is gnome 3.Thank you
I quite like xfce, but I prefer lxde (LUbuntu). In this one, menu items are autogenerated for installed programs, although you can edit a simple file to add an entry if you wish. I guess you can install a mouse cursor theme (managed by LXAppearance) to get a cursor of different size/shape, but never actually tried myself.

---

### Post by Megaptera on 2011-10-30
Is this How to ....  of interest?

[http://robinsrantsandraves.wordpress.com/2011/07/20/an-unity-inspired-xfce-dock-in-xubuntu-10-04/](http://robinsrantsandraves.wordpress.com/2011/07/20/an-unity-inspired-xfce-dock-in-xubuntu-10-04/)

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2011-10-30
No in unity gnome 3 and fallback there is only a mouse color option no sizing bar like before and numerous searches found nothing also.I can't see why this was changed.

---

