---
title: "12.04 hangs at &quot;detecting hardware&quot;"
date: 2013-03-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by newlinuxu on 2013-03-02
Hi!

Brand New Toshiba Laptop
AMD A6-4400 64bit (2.6GHz IIRC)
4G DDR# 1600MHz RAM
SATA 500G HD


Trying to install 12.04.2 amd 64bit.  Laptop came with W8, hated it, no need to partition etc

runs fine off live cd but no internet connection


when i install (with Graphical Interface), it hangs at *loading module 'usb storage' for 'USB storage'. . .*

--> added 'nousb' boot parameter in the boot menu (comes up when you hit any key at the first purple screen)

now install proceeds beyond usb module.  yay!

BUT - now install hangs at *Detecting hardware, please wait* 

tried some of the acpi boot parameters (not exhaustively) but the outcome was unaffected.

any suggestions?  Thank you

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-03-02
newlinuxu; Hi ! Welcome to the forum.

Two things pop into my mind:
1. The old install of Windows 8 -> is UEFI a factor, don't really seem so as the install does start. UEFI may have some wierd reaction to installing another operating system.
2. Do you have internet as hard wired ? If WIFI the driver to support it may not have been found and/or loaded.

See if these links shed any light on this sloppyation:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2059640 dual boot & UEFI advise](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2059640 dual boot & UEFI advise)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI?highlight=%28%28UEFI%29%29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI?highlight=%28%28UEFI%29%29)
[http://distrowatch.com/weekly.php?issue=20121126#qa](http://distrowatch.com/weekly.php?issue=20121126#qa)

I read that you are happy to not have Windows, the links may indicate a method to get around any UEFI hindrinces.

Hope this helps, I have never encounted UEFI, thus I have no direct experience. Please post back with any thing we can help with. Others with the experience live here and will offer better guidance if needed.[INDENT=3]
just try'n to help

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by newlinuxu on 2013-03-03
it doesnt seem to be a boot problem as much as a problem with the install itself.  Im NOT dual booting, and at this point im pretty sure win 8 is gone since the hung install gets far enough that the next time i run the install it asks if i want to install alongside 12.04.2 or over it.  anybody out there know what specific hardware the program is detecting at this point in the process (just after *creating user*)

---

### Post by james2b on 2013-03-03
Since new computers which came with Windows 8 have that new BIOS replacement called; UEFI, I would hit your F key or what ever key to enter your UEFI BIOS settings just to check that it is set logical for hardware detection and device driver installs. Go to your laptop maker's website, Toshiba to search for more information about this issue.

---

### Post by newlinuxu on 2013-03-03
dark and looming question: UEFI cant be entered except thru Windows 8 itself, and windows 8 is long gone on my computer, am i screwed?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-03-03
newlinuxu;
UEFI is out of my experience. I have in mind to get the forum's resident "expert" on situations such as this to look at this.
He is not on the forum at this time. I suggest a wait and see attitude.
[INDENT=3]

we will advise

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-03
Some computers do need Windows 8 to get back into UEFI menu. Did you turn off secure boot and turn off fast boot? 
Can you get into UEFI/BIOS menu?

What model computer. Some Samsungs may be bricked with Linux in UEFI mode. But it now turns out those models may also be bricked by Windows so a major UEFI Samsung issue. Some systems install relatively easily, some with difficultly and some have major issues.

       You will need to use the 64 bit version of 12.10 or 12.04.2 and from the UEFI menu boot the flash drive in UEFI mode. That way it will install in UEFI mode.
Systems need quick boot or fast boot turned off in UEFI settings. Vital for some systems. Best to backup efi partition and Windows partition first.
Use Windows Disk Tools to shrink Windows main partition, but not to create any new partitions, if installing on same drive.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/UEFI](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/UEFI)
As of 12.04.2, it is possible to install on UEFI systems with Secure Boot enabled (using signed versions of Shim, GRUB, and the Linux kernel). This is only currently set up for Ubuntu (desktop, alternate, and server) and Edubuntu images due to pressures of time; we expect to enable it across the entire Ubuntu family for 12.04.3.  Details:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuDesktop](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuDesktop)

Also was this an UltraBook? Those have RAID which leaves meta-data on drive which has to be removed before it will install correctly.
And a lot of systems whether UEFI or BIOS are having Video issues. 
What video card/chip(s) do you have?

 There is a bug in ubiquity on the 12.04 iso that causes the installer to crash part way through on some hardware.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/996568](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/996568)
From liveCD before install. 
sudo apt-get remove ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu
or (ubiquity-slideshow-lubuntu) (and ubiquity-slideshow-xubuntu)

---

### Post by newlinuxu on 2013-03-03
Toshiba c855d-s5307.  CPU is AMD A6-4400M x2 2.7GHz.  I am trying to instal 64bit amd 12.04.2 LTR.  W8 is long gone, just a single Ubuntu partition now.  Maybe there is a way to access uefi through the live cd?  No video issues, G chip is Radeon HD 7520G.  What is an Ultrabook?  Yes it crashes during the slideshow - reading up on bug 996568 - sounds very likely . . . My step-son did the W8 BIOS part, switching the boot drive priority to cd-rom, but i dont think he changed secure boot or fast boot settings.

---

### Post by newlinuxu on 2013-03-04
with 12.04.2 LTR 64bit AMD Live CD

accessed advanced boot menu, added 'nousb' to boot parameters for *Try Ubuntu*

opened terminal, entered:
sudo apt-get remove ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu

closed terminal

began graphical install, no slideshow . . . . 

hangs at same place :( :( really bummed.


***An idea: the main download / "how to install ubuntu" instruction page doesnt currently mention UEFI for new W8 computers.  It took me a day and a half to figure out how to access BIOS in W8 in order to change the boot drive.  No mention of secure boot and/or fast boot being a factor until i started trying to solve this problem when it was too late. *didnt think i needed to back up an unused W8 OS because i intended to wipe it out anyway*  Is there a way to access BIOS with liveCD?

---

### Post by newlinuxu on 2013-03-04
Ok so after reading some various explanations of UEFI, i recalled a passage where it said, essentially, that BIOS access via the old style "F12 during start up" only works if you have quick fingers and luck because the time window for hitting f12 (or whatever) is like 20ms.  well frustrated i just gave it a try and low and behold i must have had luck and fast fingers because BIOS just opened up.  So yes, I can access BIOS

Boot mode = CSM, (not UEFI) and boot speed = normal

How to wipe out RAID?

---

### Post by james2b on 2013-03-04
Which boot mode do you want it to be in, the old legacy (CSM), or UEFI ? With no more Win 8 you can use the old style legacy BIOS. The Raid setting should be in the BIOS or UEFI ? Does that boot speed set to normal also mean that the fast boot mode option is disabled or turned off ? Some UEFI help here; [http://www.uefi.org/about/](http://www.uefi.org/about/)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-04
If you have AMD, I do not think you have RAID unless they are implementing something similar. It is an Intel standard that uses a small SSD for cacheing. But running the commands to remove RAID should not hurt anything as long as you do not want or have to have RAID.

From one with the Intel SRT:
> You may have to install dmraid first.
 Disable the RAID, for me it was using the Intel rapid management thingy and telling it to disable the acceleration or the use of the SSD. If you have a different system, just disable the RAID system then install Ubuntu. Once installed you can then re-enable it.
sudo dmraid -E -r /dev/sda
sudo dmraid -E -r /dev/sdb

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-03-04
newlinuxu; Hi !

Still hanging in there with you. I monitor to see if I can help in any small way.

As UEFI is turned off, raid not a factor, slideshow disabled --then: 

Have you tried the preset boot options available in the install medium boot screen (purple screen ->language screen -> boot options -> f6 key)?
Else nother thing .. wireless access to the 'net ? If so maybe the drivers are not loaded ..try a wired connection.
[INDENT=2]
Try'n to help

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-04
Boot-Repair can also convert a BIOS/Legacy install to UEFI, if you partition with gpt so you have a 200 or 300MB efi partition first on the drive. When you install in BIOS mode it will also create a bios_grub partition if partitioned with gpt. 
If you partition with MBR(msdos) you will not be able to convert to UEFI, but you may not want to. But I would still suggest gpt partitioning.

With my new, now 1 year old SSD I partitioned with gpt, left 300MB for an efi partition and installed in my old BIOS system including the 1MB bios_grub unformatted partition. I was planning on building a new system last summer that would be UEFI. But now it looks like it will be this next summer.

---

### Post by newlinuxu on 2013-03-04
thanks for the ongoing leads

both those RAID commands resulted in a message detailing usage of sudo, so im guessing no raid

yes from what ive read i want CSM, and yes normal boot is selected instead of fast boot, thats the only mention of boot speed i could find in my BIOS.

ive tried a few of the f6, f6 preset selections to various effect, not every combo though.  i may try some other bios options too. . .

couldnt get the hard wire connection working either, figured id troubleshoot networking from an installed OS rather than the LiveCD.

i will try the boot repair and gpt partition, and try and get network access sorted out.  Still wondering what hardware the install is stumbling on since the slideshow=off didnt seem to effect it.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-03-05
I do seem to be seeing more issues with AMD than Intel, but Intel also needs boot parameters for its video and some other hardware. 

Someone else with Toshiba
 [SOLVED] Can't install Windows 8 & Ubuntu in Toshiba Portege Z930 with explanation how by OP feb 2013
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2114290](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2114290)

Make sure your UEFI/BIOS is up to date.

 Some Toshiba's will not boot.
 they managed to leave the signing key out of the database that's used to validate binaries

---

### Post by wyclin on 2013-06-15
Hey there,

Came across this thread trying to install Ubuntu on my Toshiba C855D (pre-installed Win 8, Ubuntu installer hangs at "detecting hardware") and came across pretty much the exact same problem. Was wondering if you managed to solve it?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-06-15
While it is better to install in UEFI mode which requires booting installer in UEFI mode, some systems only boot in BIOS mode. Can you install in BIOS mode? Boot-Repair will convert to UEFI.

Have you updated UEFI as the issue of a system working in BIOS and not working in UEFI is something between how UEFI writes data vs BIOS and how operating system reads it. Or it could be a UEFI bug or an update in Ubuntu to read data not written the same as everyone else is writing it. 

See also my signature for more details on UEFI.

---

