---
title: "GSynaptics"
date: 2009-10-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by HarleyDude on 2009-10-16
I have pasted all the lines suggested to activate this and followed every link I can find on how to cure this and end up unable to activate.  I am hoping this will cure my touchpad problem of locking up.

GSynaptics couldn't initialize.
You have to set 'SHMConfig' 'true' in xorg.conf or XF86Config to use GSynaptics

What am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by starcannon on 2009-10-16
Please attach a copy of your xorg.conf to a post. If you want it inline, please be sure to wrap it with a code box, use the little # sign from the new post menu.

You can view your xorg.conf in read only mode by:

[LIST=1]
[*]Press Alt+F2
[*]Type: gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
[*]Press Ctrl+a (select all)
[*]Press Ctrl+c (copy)
[*]Inside the code box tags here at the forums press Ctrl+v (paste)
[/LIST]
GL

P.S. Be sure to read this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=345192](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=345192)

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2009-10-16
for jaunty: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1270713](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1270713)

---

### Post by t0p on 2009-10-16
> **HarleyDude said:**
> I have pasted all the lines suggested to activate this and followed every link I can find on how to cure this and end up unable to activate.  I am hoping this will cure my touchpad problem of locking up.

GSynaptics couldn't initialize.
You have to set 'SHMConfig' 'true' in xorg.conf or XF86Config to use GSynaptics

What am I doing wrong?

Is that an error message you got?

> GSynaptics couldn't initialize.
You have to set 'SHMConfig' 'true' in xorg.conf or XF86Config to use GSynaptics

If so, have you tried editing /etc/X11/xorg.conf to set "SHMConfig" "true"?  Do that, and see what happens.

---

### Post by HarleyDude on 2009-10-16
Here it is:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Mouse0"
Driver "mouse"
Option "Protocol" "auto"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "VertScrollDelta" "20"
Option "SHMConfig" "true"
EndSection

---

### Post by winotree on 2009-10-16
Have you seen this [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1270713](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1270713) which was solved the other day?  It should help you, too.

---

### Post by starcannon on 2009-10-16
Looks like you turned it on for a mouse, not the touchpad.
You'll need to add a section for the touchpad:
```

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
	Option		"SHMConfig"		"on"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2009-10-16
> **starcannon said:**
> Looks like you turned it on for a mouse, not the touchpad.
You'll need to add a section for the touchpad:
```

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
	Option		"SHMConfig"		"on"
EndSection

```


that won't work unless you create a "Section "ServerLayout"" just adding that will cause the loss of X & be stuck at command line. it is also no longer the recommended way to do it with the new xorg.

---

### Post by starcannon on 2009-10-16
> **kerry_s said:**
> that won't work unless you create a "Section "ServerLayout"" just adding that will cause the loss of X & be stuck at command line. it is also no longer the recommended way to do it with the new xorg.
Ah yeah, your right; sorry I forgot about that. I'll add a complete example later, I'm at my desktop and not at my laptop.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2009-10-16
> **starcannon said:**
> Ah yeah, your right; sorry I forgot about that. I'll add a complete example later, I'm at my desktop and not at my laptop.

how about we just point him to the doc's. :)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad)

---

### Post by HarleyDude on 2009-10-16
Thank you so much for the help and the link, I was getting a little frustrated.  I only do a Ubuntu install infrequently and forget what I learned during the last round.  Thanks again from a desperately lost dude!

I'll digest and let you know.

---

