---
title: "9.10 to 10.04 fresh install or upgrade?"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by albert s on 2010-04-30
as it says in the title,
am I better to upgrade my 9.10(32bit) or do a fresh install?
If I do a fresh install Im also gonna do a 64bit one,
Im running on the live CD right now so I know it will work ok with my stuff.
exception being my graphics are a little funny cos I dont have the restricted drivers yet.
thanks,

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-04-30
I always do a fresh install it's safer and generally yields a much higher success rate in my experiences.

---

### Post by Dhee on 2010-04-30
I prefer a fresh install. Update's tent to fail.(Might be because of my Internet connection though...)

---

### Post by albert s on 2010-04-30
thanks folks, I was hoping you would say that, lets me give 64bit a go too,  :D 
even though I dont need 64bit for anything, why not move on, otherwise I would still use a ZX81.  :)

thanks.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2010-04-30
I've had good results with both upgrades and fresh installs.

Upgrades used to be quite dodgy (especially handling packages from weird sources), but now they're pretty good. If you stick to official Ubuntu packages and don't customise your system heavily there's no reason it shouldn't work fine.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-04-30
If you are running 32bit on a box that will run 64 do a clean install.

If you are running on ext3 currently do a clean install.

I have several installations of 10.04, one going back to November of last year, I have not tried an upgrade in some time now but I have better performance with a clean install than from even a clean inst all of 9.10 and upgrading it.  Not a whole lot but it is there.

---

