---
title: "10.04 battery charge monitor missing"
date: 2010-08-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nh5y on 2010-08-31
just installed 10.04, and i can't find the battery charge monitor to put it on my panel.

i know you're supposed to right click on a panel -> "add to panel" -> battery charge monitor -> "add"

but battery charge monitor isn't on the list of things to add to my panel.  any ideas what's going on?

thanks,

Natasha

---

### Post by akoskm on 2010-08-31
> **nh5y said:**
> just installed 10.04, and i can't find the battery charge monitor to put it on my panel.

i know you're supposed to right click on a panel -> "add to panel" -> battery charge monitor -> "add"

but battery charge monitor isn't on the list of things to add to my panel.  any ideas what's going on?

thanks,

Natasha

You can change the battery-icon visibility setting in System > Preferences > Power management, General Tab.

---

### Post by nh5y on 2010-08-31
oh yeah, sorry i forgot to mention that doesn't work either.

---

### Post by RafaelBarreto on 2010-08-31
Must probably you are experiencing the same issue than us:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1546463](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1546463)

Open the terminal, and try the command:
**dmesg | grep batt**

If the output be like...
**ACPI: Battery Slot [BAT1] (battery absent)**
.... so it is exactly the same issue.

---

### Post by nh5y on 2010-08-31
yes, i have that same issue.  i didn't see a solution on that thread.

any suggestions?  step by step would be great, as i am into ubuntu for its usability, not because i'm into programming.

i appreciate all the help i can get, thanks for your responses.

---

### Post by RafaelBarreto on 2010-08-31
I am waiting for a solution too (or some kernel upgrade).

---

### Post by RonB123123 on 2010-09-09
My terminal says:

$ dmesg | grep batt
[    0.514767] ACPI: Battery Slot [BAT0] (battery present)

I have the Power Management set the icon to Always Show and the icon isn't present. However, my network icon and sound icon are present. Rhythmbox is also open and does not show the icon.

If I add the Indicator Applet 0.3.7, it will show my Rhythmbox, Battery icon, sound icon, and an annoying Letter icon but will not show the network icon. Everything was working fine until I did some "partial upgrade" a couple days ago.

[img]http://i53.tinypic.com/vsl7rn.png[/img]

How do I fix this... I'm tired of everything working and then updating and then something breaking. 

Thanks,
Ron

---

### Post by ferdaus98 on 2010-10-22
It is in [COLOR="Red"]**"System"> "Preference"> "Screensaver**[/COLOR] and in [COLOR="Blue"]**"Power Management" tab and in "General"**[/COLOR] tap/option
Pl make selection **"Always display an icon"**
then go back "Panel", Right Click; select [COLOR="Red"]"Add to Panel" and select "Indicator Applet"[/COLOR]
............
Worked for me (after it had gone missing)

---

### Post by Wild_Wes on 2010-10-22
If none of these things work, you should upgrade to 10.10.:KS Never had that sort of problem on 10.10, I only just recently upgraded though.

---

