---
title: "10.04: With PCMCIA Card - no keyboard.  Without Card - No internet"
date: 2010-08-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Aussie Greg on 2010-08-22
I installed 10.04 on my laptop a couple of days ago.  I managed to get my wireless internet connection set up via a PCMCIA card and all was good until I logged back in the following day and my laptop keyboard would not work.  After stuffing around looking for a solution for quite time I decided to do a reinstall.  All worked well again until I logged out and then back in.  Just by coincidence I tried it again today and my keyboard worked.  However I didn't have the PCMCIA card in.  Guess what no internet this time.  I tried a few more times and it seems I can boot without my PCMCIA card and it finds the keyboard OK but then I have no internet connection later.  Or if the PCMCIA card is in at boot I get internet but no keyboard.  Any suggestions?

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-08-22
What are your system specs and your PCMCIA card?

---

### Post by Aussie Greg on 2010-08-23
It is a 7yo Dell inspiron 2650.  CPU is a pentium 4, 512MB RAM.  
PCMCIA card is a Belkin wireless 802.11g which has a Broadcomm chip.
Funny that both wireless connection and keyboard were working after the 10.04 upgrade and then problems developed after re booting.  This is my first try with Linux and hoping I can get it working without too much trouble.

---

### Post by Aussie Greg on 2010-08-26
Unless I can get a solution to this it will be back to XP for me.

---

