---
title: "12.04 and Arduino"
date: 2012-05-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-05-09
Well, it seems I've gotten things messed up again somehow.  I decided to start playing around with an Arduino Uno (not for the robotics, but for something very different).  So, I download the .zip for the IDE for Linux and extract.  Tried to execute the arduino java file - said I was missing Java.  Added what I thought I needed to add (this is probably where I got things all messed up) but still get errors but from Java now.

So, anyone out there that's using the Arduino IDE on 12.04 - would you mind posting what java packages you installed?  I think I may have a couple that conflict with each other, so what I'd like to do is use the package manager and remove the java packages, then install to match someone who has this working.

BTW - and you heard it here first in case somebody else tries to copyright this thing - I'm making a detector and timer circuit so that I can place a heat sensor at the entrance to my cat's liter box, which will pull up a line on the Arduino which my programming will capture, wait a programmable delay (via non-shorting rotary switch), then bring an output line high to drive a relay to power a servo that will press the top down on an air freshner can, wait a delay, then release it and reset.  I was going to do this with a 555 timer, but the calc's for delaying 1 1/2 or 2 minutes require a different rated capacitor than the standard calcs in order to keep the resistor within recommended limits.  So, the Arduino is more expensive but more fun to play with to get it to work.  I won't have to break out the oscilliscope or anything beyond a standard multimeter to do everything.  Probably sounds like a crazy idea, but my cat can create some quite intense odors from the litter box, and I just want to automatically knock them down.  So, it's a crazy idea, but 1 I know will work quite easily - I'm just not using the Arduino for robotics ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-05-10
bump.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-05-10
OK, I just installed the default.jre package and now the Arduino IDE starts, let's me create a new folder for sketches, then bombs out again with the same error:

```
sudo apt-get install arduino
dave@dave-desktop:~/arduino-1.0$ ./arduino
java.lang.UnsatisfiedLinkError: /home/dave/arduino-1.0/lib/librxtxSerial.so: /home/dave/arduino-1.0/lib/librxtxSerial.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS32 (Possible cause: architecture word width mismatch) thrown while loading gnu.io.RXTXCommDriver
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.UnsatisfiedLinkError: /home/dave/arduino-1.0/lib/librxtxSerial.so: /home/dave/arduino-1.0/lib/librxtxSerial.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS32 (Possible cause: architecture word width mismatch)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader$NativeLibrary.load(Native Method)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadLibrary0(ClassLoader.java:1750)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadLibrary(ClassLoader.java:1675)
	at java.lang.Runtime.loadLibrary0(Runtime.java:840)
	at java.lang.System.loadLibrary(System.java:1047)
	at gnu.io.CommPortIdentifier.<clinit>(CommPortIdentifier.java:83)
	at processing.app.Editor.populateSerialMenu(Editor.java:969)
	at processing.app.Editor.buildToolsMenu(Editor.java:697)
	at processing.app.Editor.buildMenuBar(Editor.java:482)
	at processing.app.Editor.<init>(Editor.java:204)
	at processing.app.Base.handleOpen(Base.java:700)
	at processing.app.Base.handleOpen(Base.java:665)
	at processing.app.Base.handleNew(Base.java:561)
	at processing.app.Base.<init>(Base.java:301)
	at processing.app.Base.main(Base.java:190)


```

I don't have a clue what an ELFCLASS is, but I noticed it did indicate one of the Arduino libs as what appears to me to be 32-bit, and I'm running 64-bit Ubuntu.  I wonder if that could be the cause?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-05-10
Indeed - there's a 32-bit and a 64-bit version of the Arduino IDE.  I guess I got in a hurry and downloaded the 32-bit.  I just downloaded the 64-bit version and all seems good now.  I guess I'll find out more when I try to program it.

Problem solved for now! ;)

---

### Post by Paqman on 2012-05-10
The Arduino IDE is in the repositories, so that's the quickest and easiest place to install it from. Open up Software Centre and search for "arduino".

---

### Post by pdr2esmolbra on 2012-07-18
Hello there, 

I am having the same problem!
Even Processing seems to be failing  (doesn't open serial port!) since I installed 12.04.

Here's the error I get after I installed arduino from the Software Centre:


pedro@DX4840:~$ arduino
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.ExceptionInInitializerError
	at processing.app.Base.main(Base.java:113)
Caused by: java.awt.HeadlessException
	at sun.awt.HeadlessToolkit.getMenuShortcutKeyMask(HeadlessToolkit.java:231)
	at processing.core.PApplet.<clinit>(Unknown Source)
	... 1 more


I have synaptic-installed open-JDK-JRe (6 and 7!), gcc-avr, and avr-libC. I even added myself to the serial dialout! What's going on? Maybe I have reinstall Java?

Thanks a ton for your help.

Pedro

---

