---
title: "8.04: Desktop does not respond"
date: 2008-11-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by flameproof on 2008-11-24
8.04 stopped working correctly 2 weeks ago. I can go up to the desktop with all icons and everything looks fine. But when I click any desktop icon (Firefox, pidgin) nothing happens for a moment, then the screen will change to just the 8.04 wallpaper (the brownish bird), then a moment later the icons and task panel come back as before. No application starts. I can logout if I click the logout icon often enough.

Any idea?

---

### Post by GSF1200S on 2008-11-24
> **flameproof said:**
> 8.04 stopped working correctly 2 weeks ago. I can go up to the desktop with all icons and everything looks fine. But when I click any desktop icon (Firefox, pidgin) nothing happens for a moment, then the screen will change to just the 8.04 wallpaper (the brownish bird), then a moment later the icons and task panel come back as before. No application starts. I can logout if I click the logout icon often enough.

Any idea?

Eh.. Sounds like gnome has messed itself up somehow. When you get to the login window, go the Sessions button and select "Console login"

From here, we can try to use the CLI to fix your problem. First, login. Then, try the following commands:

sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude upgrade
sudo dpkg-reconfigure ubuntu-desktop
sudo dpkg-reconfigure gnome-panel
sudo dpkg-reconfigure gnome-desktop-environment
sudo dpkg-reconfigure nautilus

To get back to your login window, type:

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart

Alternatively, you may want to shutdown or reboot:

sudo reboot
sudo shutdown -h now

Let us know if this helps, and if not, ill install gnome and ill try to dig deeper (run fluxbox/kde at the moment).

Good luck!

---

