---
title: "9.10, MSI NEO-FSR/FIS2R (6702) boot from sata?"
date: 2010-01-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-01-08
I got the answers on my other post on how to move things to my new drive via remastersys (seems like the best way for me).  Now I've run into a "little" problem and I'm hoping someone here can help me out:

- I put in a SATA DVD/RW drive and created the remastersys backup onto a dvd

- I went to my BIOS screen at boot and can't find an option to boot from SATA.  I tried turning off everything and just left "try other boot devices" there, but it only went back to my IDE hard drive after searching.  It never even spun up the DVD/RW drive at that point.

The new hard disk I want to put in is SATA, my DVD/RW is SATA (and the remastersys disk, not to mention my Ubuntu LiveCD, etc., have to go there now).  

Does anyone know how to make this motherboard boot from SATA?

Thanks in advance!!

Dave :)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-01-08
You have to go into the bios and set the boot order there. You can set which disk, whether it is attached via pata or sata, is the first in the boot order. On my K9N6PGM2 the settings are in Advanced BIOS features.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-01-08
As mentioned in my original post, I went to the BIOS and there is no option there to specify a SATA device, at least not the SATA DVD/RW.  I don't have the SATA hard drive in yet, but if I can't see the SATA DVD/RW in the boot list it does me no good anyway, as I won't be able to boot a LiveCD, etc..

Thanks for the reply!

Dave :)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-01-09
Turns out my motherboard was one of the earlier ones with SATA - supported AFTER boot, but not as the boot device.  Disapointing for me.

dave :(

---

