---
title: "11.04 has brought me problems installing and uninstalling ANY package"
date: 2011-07-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by djpurity on 2011-07-10
I started on Ubuntu 10.10 64-bit, using a live CD/DVD to boot off of while I was trying to salvage data from a hdd I basically broke on my laptop by banging my fist on the keyboard when Win7 64-bit Home Special Ed. was running too slow for my tastes for a presentation that was for a meeting that was coming up like, right that minute. I have an Acer Aspire 5251-1805 laptop. Anyway, I just gave up, bought a new WD hdd 500 GB and installed the Ubuntu 64-bit 10.10 version.

When 11.04 came out and offered to install itself as a free upgrade, of course I said, YES. And I installed it, but ever since then, I get these errors whenever I try to install or uninstall a package to the Software Center... it usually looks like this:


```
installArchives() failed: Selecting previously deselected package gnome-activity-journal.
(Reading database ... 
(Reading database ... 5%
(Reading database ... 10%
(Reading database ... 15%
(Reading database ... 20%
(Reading database ... 25%
(Reading database ... 30%
(Reading database ... 35%
(Reading database ... 40%
(Reading database ... 45%
(Reading database ... 50%
(Reading database ... 55%
(Reading database ... 60%
(Reading database ... 65%
(Reading database ... 70%
(Reading database ... 75%
(Reading database ... 80%
(Reading database ... 85%
(Reading database ... 90%
(Reading database ... 95%
(Reading database ... 100%
(Reading database ... 333318 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking gnome-activity-journal (from .../gnome-activity-journal_0.5.0.1-0ubuntu1_all.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package python-pygments.
Unpacking python-pygments (from .../python-pygments_1.4+dfsg-1ubuntu1_all.deb) ...
Processing triggers for bamfdaemon ...
Rebuilding /usr/share/applications/bamf.index...
Processing triggers for desktop-file-utils ...
Processing triggers for python-gmenu ...
Rebuilding /usr/share/applications/desktop.en_US.UTF8.cache...
Processing triggers for hicolor-icon-theme ...
Processing triggers for man-db ...
Processing triggers for gconf2 ...
Processing triggers for python-support ...
Setting up bcmwl-kernel-source (5.100.82.38+bdcom-0ubuntu3.1) ...
/var/lib/dpkg/info/bcmwl-kernel-source.postinst: 53: Syntax error: "fi" unexpected (expecting ";;")
dpkg: error processing bcmwl-kernel-source (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 2
No apport report written because MaxReports is reached already
Setting up gnome-activity-journal (0.5.0.1-0ubuntu1) ...
Setting up python-pygments (1.4+dfsg-1ubuntu1) ...
Processing triggers for python-support ...
Errors were encountered while processing:
 bcmwl-kernel-source
Setting up bcmwl-kernel-source (5.100.82.38+bdcom-0ubuntu3.1) ...
/var/lib/dpkg/info/bcmwl-kernel-source.postinst: 53: Syntax error: "fi" unexpected (expecting ";;")
dpkg: error processing bcmwl-kernel-source (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 2

```

So every install/uninstall ends with an exit status 2. I see it seems to be rooted in bcmwl somwhere, whatever that is. And it has even told me once or twice that this is not an authentic version of Ubuntu... but but it is... what makes it not? I used an authentic download site for the live CD I made to boot off of to install 10.10, and it automatically upgraded me to 11.04 when it was time and the dialog window popped up and asked me if I wanted to, and I said yes. So, what gives?

Why exit status 2 every time? I also had uninstalled the OpenOffice.org from the original 10.10 install and upgraded it manually to the latest version, 3.2. I loved it way better than the previous install and couldn't believe there was no upgrade support for it naturally in the installation of 10.10 or 11.04, and in 11.04, it had been replaced with LibreOffice. I would rather have OpenOffice, but I've tried LibreWriter and other apps and it's similar and I can work with it. But I see OpenOffice has been upgraded to 3.3 now. Am I confused in the upgrade releases?

Anyway, it doesn't matter, I want my installation to be legit, and to always be successful when installing/uninstalling, and to stop with this exit 2 status. It's always based on these lines of code explanation in every instance:
```
Errors were encountered while processing:
 bcmwl-kernel-source
Setting up bcmwl-kernel-source (5.100.82.38+bdcom-0ubuntu3.1) ...
/var/lib/dpkg/info/bcmwl-kernel-source.postinst: 53: Syntax error: "fi" unexpected (expecting ";;")
dpkg: error processing bcmwl-kernel-source (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 2
```

Can anyone help please?

Thank you.

](*,)

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-07-10
Hi, those packages are for the wireless broadcom chipset, you may not even need them. Is your wireless card a broadcom?
Run these commands in a terminal
```
cat /etc/apt/sources.list
```
```
ls /etc/apt/sources.list.d
```
and post the outcome  here by clicking on new reply and click # and paste the information between the brackets.

---

### Post by djpurity on 2011-07-30
> **wildmanne39 said:**
> Hi, those packages are for the wireless broadcom chipset, you may not even need them. Is your wireless card a broadcom?

I am not sure, but it works fine as far as wireless goes. I have an Acer Aspire 5251-1805 model laptop which originally had Windows 7 on the harddrive, which I broke, so I replaced the entire harddrive with a bigger WD one, 500 GB, and installed Ubuntu 10.10 from a live boot disc I have been running before on the broken harddrive. It says my wireless card is an Acer Nplify 802.11b/g/n on the case.... why would that be a problem?

Anyway, when Natty 11.04 became available, I just accepted the upgrade when it appeared on my screen, and upgraded my system. I thought it was from a legit copy... but I keep getting some codes stating that Natty is not a legit copy... although I got it directly from the Internet connection and it appearing on my screen as an option to do and I accepted... is that how it worked for everyone else uprading 10.10 to 11.04?

Anyway I ran the codes you wanted in my terminal and here are the results:

> **wildmanne39 said:**
> 
Run these commands in a terminal
```
cat /etc/apt/sources.list
```


# deb cdrom:[Ubuntu 10.10 _Maverick Meerkat_ - Release amd64 (20101007)]/ maverick main restricted
# See [http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes](http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes) for how to upgrade to
# newer versions of the distribution.

deb cdrom:[Ubuntu 11.04 _Natty Narwhal_ - Release amd64 (20110427.1)]/ natty main restricted
deb [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) natty main restricted

## Major bug fix updates produced after the final release of the
## distribution.

## N.B. software from this repository is ENTIRELY UNSUPPORTED by the Ubuntu
## team. Also, please note that software in universe WILL NOT receive any
## review or updates from the Ubuntu security team.
deb [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) natty universe

## N.B. software from this repository is ENTIRELY UNSUPPORTED by the Ubuntu
## team, and may not be under a free licence. Please satisfy yourself as to
## your rights to use the software. Also, please note that software in
## multiverse WILL NOT receive any review or updates from the Ubuntu
## security team.
deb [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) natty multiverse

## Uncomment the following two lines to add software from the 'backports'
## repository.
## N.B. software from this repository may not have been tested as
## extensively as that contained in the main release, although it includes
## newer versions of some applications which may provide useful features.
## Also, please note that software in backports WILL NOT receive any review
## or updates from the Ubuntu security team.
deb [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) natty-backports main restricted universe multiverse

## Uncomment the following two lines to add software from Canonical's
## 'partner' repository.
## This software is not part of Ubuntu, but is offered by Canonical and the
## respective vendors as a service to Ubuntu users.
deb [http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu](http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu) natty partner
deb-src [http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu](http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu) natty partner

## This software is not part of Ubuntu, but is offered by third-party
## developers who want to ship their latest software.
deb [http://extras.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://extras.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) natty main
deb-src [http://extras.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://extras.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) natty main

deb [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) natty-proposed restricted main multiverse universe
deb [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) natty-security restricted main multiverse universe
deb [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) natty-updates restricted main multiverse universe

> **wildmanne39 said:**
> 
```
ls /etc/apt/sources.list.d
```

dropbox.list
dropbox.list.distUpgrade
dropbox.list.save
google-chrome.list
google-chrome.list.distUpgrade
google-chrome.list.save
google-talkplugin.list
google-talkplugin.list.distUpgrade
google-talkplugin.list.save
rye-ubuntuone-extras-natty.list
ubuntu-mozilla-daily-ppa-maverick.list
ubuntu-mozilla-daily-ppa-maverick.list.distUpgrade
ubuntu-mozilla-daily-ppa-maverick.list.save

---

### Post by djpurity on 2011-07-30
I tried going to Upgrade Manager and ran it and this is the error message I got:

It said it failed and I went to details, and this is what it said, but I think I accidentally switched a line from the top to the second line when I tried to grab the text, and I couldn't undo it, so I just left it as is, figuring someone would understand:
```

ExtractinginstallArchives() failed:  templates from packages: 45%%
Extracting templates from packages: 90%%
Extracting templates from packages: 100%%
Preconfiguring packages ...

Extracting templates from packages: 45%%
Extracting templates from packages: 90%%
Extracting templates from packages: 100%%
Preconfiguring packages ...

Extracting templates from packages: 45%%
Extracting templates from packages: 90%%
Extracting templates from packages: 100%%
Preconfiguring packages ...
(Reading database ... 
(Reading database ... 5%%
(Reading database ... 10%%
(Reading database ... 15%%
(Reading database ... 20%%
(Reading database ... 25%%
(Reading database ... 30%%
(Reading database ... 35%%
(Reading database ... 40%%
(Reading database ... 45%%
(Reading database ... 50%%
(Reading database ... 55%%
(Reading database ... 60%%
(Reading database ... 65%%
(Reading database ... 70%%
(Reading database ... 75%%
(Reading database ... 80%%
(Reading database ... 85%%
(Reading database ... 90%%
(Reading database ... 95%%
(Reading database ... 100%%
(Reading database ... 334071 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace linux-libc-dev 2.6.38-10.46 (using .../linux-libc-dev_2.6.38-11.47_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement linux-libc-dev ...
Selecting previously deselected package linux-headers-2.6.38-11.
Unpacking linux-headers-2.6.38-11 (from .../linux-headers-2.6.38-11_2.6.38-11.47_all.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package linux-headers-2.6.38-11-generic.
Unpacking linux-headers-2.6.38-11-generic (from .../linux-headers-2.6.38-11-generic_2.6.38-11.47_amd64.deb) ...
Preparing to replace linux-headers-generic 2.6.38.10.25 (using .../linux-headers-generic_2.6.38.11.26_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement linux-headers-generic ...
Preparing to replace dpkg 1.16.0~ubuntu7 (using .../dpkg_1.16.0~ubuntu7.1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement dpkg ...
Processing triggers for man-db ...
Setting up dpkg (1.16.0~ubuntu7.1) ...
(Reading database ... 
(Reading database ... 5%%
(Reading database ... 10%%
(Reading database ... 15%%
(Reading database ... 20%%
(Reading database ... 25%%
(Reading database ... 30%%
(Reading database ... 35%%
(Reading database ... 40%%
(Reading database ... 45%%
(Reading database ... 50%%
(Reading database ... 55%%
(Reading database ... 60%%
(Reading database ... 65%%
(Reading database ... 70%%
(Reading database ... 75%%
(Reading database ... 80%%
(Reading database ... 85%%
(Reading database ... 90%%
(Reading database ... 95%%
(Reading database ... 100%%
(Reading database ... 354936 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace libcurl3 7.21.3-1ubuntu1.2 (using .../libcurl3_7.21.3-1ubuntu1.3_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libcurl3 ...
Preparing to replace google-chrome-beta 13.0.782.32-r89955 (using .../google-chrome-beta_13.0.782.107-r94237_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement google-chrome-beta ...
Selecting previously deselected package linux-image-2.6.38-11-generic.
Unpacking linux-image-2.6.38-11-generic (from .../linux-image-2.6.38-11-generic_2.6.38-11.47_amd64.deb) ...
Done.
Preparing to replace sun-java6-jre 6.24-1build0.10.10.1 (using .../sun-java6-jre_6.26-1natty1_all.deb) ...
sun-dlj-v1-1 license has already been accepted
Unpacking replacement sun-java6-jre ...
Preparing to replace sun-java6-bin 6.24-1build0.10.10.1 (using .../sun-java6-bin_6.26-1natty1_amd64.deb) ...
sun-dlj-v1-1 license has already been accepted
Unpacking replacement sun-java6-bin ...
Preparing to replace ure 1.7.0+LibO3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../ure_1.7.0+LibO3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement ure ...
Preparing to replace uno-libs3 1.7.0+LibO3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../uno-libs3_1.7.0+LibO3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement uno-libs3 ...
Preparing to replace libcurl3-gnutls 7.21.3-1ubuntu1.2 (using .../libcurl3-gnutls_7.21.3-1ubuntu1.3_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libcurl3-gnutls ...
Preparing to replace update-manager-core 1:0.150.2 (using .../update-manager-core_1%%3a0.150.3_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement update-manager-core ...
Preparing to replace update-manager 1:0.150.2 (using .../update-manager_1%%3a0.150.3_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement update-manager ...
Preparing to replace libgstreamer0.10-0 0.10.32-3ubuntu3 (using .../libgstreamer0.10-0_0.10.32-3ubuntu3.1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libgstreamer0.10-0 ...
Preparing to replace banshee 2.0.0-2ubuntu1 (using .../banshee_2.0.1-1ubuntu1~natty2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement banshee ...
Preparing to replace banshee-extension-soundmenu 2.0.0-2ubuntu1 (using .../banshee-extension-soundmenu_2.0.1-1ubuntu1~natty2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement banshee-extension-soundmenu ...
Preparing to replace banshee-extension-ubuntuonemusicstore 2.0.0-2ubuntu1 (using .../banshee-extension-ubuntuonemusicstore_2.0.1-1ubuntu1~natty2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement banshee-extension-ubuntuonemusicstore ...
Preparing to replace bluefish-dbg 2.0.2-1 (using .../bluefish-dbg_2.0.2-1ubuntu1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement bluefish-dbg ...
Preparing to replace bluefish 2.0.2-1 (using .../bluefish_2.0.2-1ubuntu1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement bluefish ...
Preparing to replace bluefish-plugins 2.0.2-1 (using .../bluefish-plugins_2.0.2-1ubuntu1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement bluefish-plugins ...
Preparing to replace bluefish-data 2.0.2-1 (using .../bluefish-data_2.0.2-1ubuntu1_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement bluefish-data ...
Preparing to replace curl 7.21.3-1ubuntu1.2 (using .../curl_7.21.3-1ubuntu1.3_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement curl ...
Preparing to replace dpkg-dev 1.16.0~ubuntu7 (using .../dpkg-dev_1.16.0~ubuntu7.1_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement dpkg-dev ...
Preparing to replace libdpkg-perl 1.16.0~ubuntu7 (using .../libdpkg-perl_1.16.0~ubuntu7.1_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libdpkg-perl ...
Preparing to replace gnome-user-guide 3.0.0+git20110406ubuntu10 (using .../gnome-user-guide_3.0.0+git20110406ubuntu11_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement gnome-user-guide ...
Preparing to replace gstreamer0.10-tools 0.10.32-3ubuntu3 (using .../gstreamer0.10-tools_0.10.32-3ubuntu3.1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement gstreamer0.10-tools ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-writer 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-writer_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-writer ...
Replacing files in old package libreoffice-core ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-calc 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-calc_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-calc ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-base 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-base_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-base ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-base-core 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-base-core_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-base-core ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-style-human 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-style-human_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-style-human ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-common 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-common_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-common ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-style-galaxy 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-style-galaxy_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-style-galaxy ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-style-oxygen 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-style-oxygen_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-style-oxygen ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-java-common 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-java-common_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-java-common ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-impress 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-impress_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-impress ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-draw 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-draw_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-draw ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-gtk 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-gtk_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-gtk ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-gnome 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-gnome_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-gnome ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-kde 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-kde_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-kde ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-officebean 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-officebean_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-officebean ...
Preparing to replace python-uno 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../python-uno_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement python-uno ...
Preparing to replace ttf-opensymbol 2:2.4.3+LibO3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../ttf-opensymbol_2%%3a2.4.3+LibO3.3.3-1ubuntu2_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement ttf-opensymbol ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-math 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-math_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-math ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-core 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-core_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-core ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-report-builder-bin 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-report-builder-bin_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-report-builder-bin ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-filter-mobiledev 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-filter-mobiledev_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-filter-mobiledev ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-emailmerge 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-emailmerge_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-emailmerge ...
Preparing to replace libreoffice-help-en-us 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../libreoffice-help-en-us_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libreoffice-help-en-us ...
Preparing to replace linux-generic 2.6.38.10.25 (using .../linux-generic_2.6.38.11.26_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement linux-generic ...
Preparing to replace linux-image-generic 2.6.38.10.25 (using .../linux-image-generic_2.6.38.11.26_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement linux-image-generic ...
Preparing to replace mozilla-libreoffice 1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5 (using .../mozilla-libreoffice_1%%3a3.3.3-1ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement mozilla-libreoffice ...
Preparing to replace nautilus-sendto 2.32.0-0ubuntu1 (using .../nautilus-sendto_2.32.0-0ubuntu1.1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement nautilus-sendto ...
Preparing to replace pithos 0.3.9-1~ubuntu1 (using .../pithos_0.3.9-1~ubuntu2_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement pithos ...
Preparing to replace q4wine 0.120-r1-3 (using .../q4wine_0.120-r1-3ubuntu0.1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement q4wine ...
Preparing to replace software-center 4.0.4 (using .../software-center_4.0.5_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement software-center ...
Preparing to replace sun-java6-fonts 6.24-1build0.10.10.1 (using .../sun-java6-fonts_6.26-1natty1_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement sun-java6-fonts ...
Preparing to replace tomboy 1.6.0-0ubuntu3 (using .../tomboy_1.6.0-0ubuntu4_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement tomboy ...
Preparing to replace xserver-xorg-video-radeon 1:6.14.0-0ubuntu4 (using .../xserver-xorg-video-radeon_1%%3a6.14.0-0ubuntu4.1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement xserver-xorg-video-radeon ...
Preparing to replace xserver-xorg-video-ati 1:6.14.0-0ubuntu4 (using .../xserver-xorg-video-ati_1%%3a6.14.0-0ubuntu4.1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement xserver-xorg-video-ati ...
Preparing to replace xserver-xorg-video-intel 2:2.14.0-4ubuntu7.1 (using .../xserver-xorg-video-intel_2%%3a2.14.0-4ubuntu7.2_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement xserver-xorg-video-intel ...
Preparing to replace libsoprano4 2.5.63+dfsg.1-0ubuntu1 (using .../libsoprano4_2.5.63+dfsg.1-0ubuntu1.1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libsoprano4 ...
Preparing to replace soprano-daemon 2.5.63+dfsg.1-0ubuntu1 (using .../soprano-daemon_2.5.63+dfsg.1-0ubuntu1.1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement soprano-daemon ...
Processing triggers for bamfdaemon ...
Rebuilding /usr/share/applications/bamf.index...
Processing triggers for desktop-file-utils ...
Processing triggers for python-gmenu ...
Rebuilding /usr/share/applications/desktop.en_US.UTF8.cache...
Processing triggers for menu ...
Processing triggers for man-db ...
Processing triggers for shared-mime-info ...
Unknown media type in type 'all/all'
Unknown media type in type 'all/allfiles'
Unknown media type in type 'uri/mms'
Unknown media type in type 'uri/mmst'
Unknown media type in type 'uri/mmsu'
Unknown media type in type 'uri/pnm'
Unknown media type in type 'uri/rtspt'
Unknown media type in type 'uri/rtspu'
Unknown media type in type 'interface/x-winamp-skin'
Processing triggers for hicolor-icon-theme ...
Processing triggers for gconf2 ...
Processing triggers for fontconfig ...
Processing triggers for libglib2.0-0 ...
Processing triggers for python-support ...
Setting up linux-libc-dev (2.6.38-11.47) ...
Setting up linux-headers-2.6.38-11 (2.6.38-11.47) ...
Setting up linux-headers-2.6.38-11-generic (2.6.38-11.47) ...
Examining /etc/kernel/header_postinst.d.
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/header_postinst.d/dkms 2.6.38-11-generic /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-11-generic
 * dkms: running auto installation service for kernel 2.6.38-11-generic        
 *       fglrx (8.840)...        
[ OK ]
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/header_postinst.d/nvidia-common 2.6.38-11-generic /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-11-generic
Setting up linux-headers-generic (2.6.38.11.26) ...
Setting up bcmwl-kernel-source (5.100.82.38+bdcom-0ubuntu3.1) ...
/var/lib/dpkg/info/bcmwl-kernel-source.postinst: 53: Syntax error: "fi" unexpected (expecting ";;")
dpkg: error processing bcmwl-kernel-source (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 2
No apport report written because MaxReports is reached already
Setting up libcurl3 (7.21.3-1ubuntu1.3) ...
Setting up google-chrome-beta (13.0.782.107-r94237) ...
Setting up linux-image-2.6.38-11-generic (2.6.38-11.47) ...
Running depmod.
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-11-generic
Examining /etc/kernel/postinst.d.
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/postinst.d/dkms 2.6.38-11-generic /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-11-generic
 * dkms: running auto installation service for kernel 2.6.38-11-generic        
 *       fglrx (8.840)...        
[ OK ]
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/postinst.d/initramfs-tools 2.6.38-11-generic /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-11-generic
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/postinst.d/nvidia-common 2.6.38-11-generic /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-11-generic
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/postinst.d/pm-utils 2.6.38-11-generic /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-11-generic
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/postinst.d/update-notifier 2.6.38-11-generic /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-11-generic
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/postinst.d/zz-update-grub 2.6.38-11-generic /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-11-generic
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-11-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-11-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-10-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-10-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-9-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-9-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-28-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-28-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
done
Setting up uno-libs3 (1.7.0+LibO3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up ure (1.7.0+LibO3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libcurl3-gnutls (7.21.3-1ubuntu1.3) ...
Setting up update-manager-core (1:0.150.3) ...
Setting up update-manager (1:0.150.3) ...
Setting up libgstreamer0.10-0 (0.10.32-3ubuntu3.1) ...
Setting up banshee (2.0.1-1ubuntu1~natty2) ...
Setting up banshee-extension-soundmenu (2.0.1-1ubuntu1~natty2) ...
Setting up banshee-extension-ubuntuonemusicstore (2.0.1-1ubuntu1~natty2) ...
Setting up bluefish-data (2.0.2-1ubuntu1) ...
Setting up bluefish-plugins (2.0.2-1ubuntu1) ...
Setting up bluefish (2.0.2-1ubuntu1) ...
Setting up bluefish-dbg (2.0.2-1ubuntu1) ...
Setting up curl (7.21.3-1ubuntu1.3) ...
Setting up libdpkg-perl (1.16.0~ubuntu7.1) ...
Setting up dpkg-dev (1.16.0~ubuntu7.1) ...
Setting up gnome-user-guide (3.0.0+git20110406ubuntu11) ...
Setting up gstreamer0.10-tools (0.10.32-3ubuntu3.1) ...
Setting up ttf-opensymbol (2:2.4.3+LibO3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up linux-image-generic (2.6.38.11.26) ...
Setting up linux-generic (2.6.38.11.26) ...
Setting up nautilus-sendto (2.32.0-0ubuntu1.1) ...
Setting up pithos (0.3.9-1~ubuntu2) ...
Setting up q4wine (0.120-r1-3ubuntu0.1) ...
Setting up software-center (4.0.5) ...
/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.7/gtk-2.0/gtk/__init__.py:57: GtkWarning: could not open display
  warnings.warn(str(e), _gtk.Warning)
Updating software catalog...this may take a moment.
Software catalog update was successful.
Setting up tomboy (1.6.0-0ubuntu4) ...
Setting up xserver-xorg-video-radeon (1:6.14.0-0ubuntu4.1) ...
Setting up xserver-xorg-video-ati (1:6.14.0-0ubuntu4.1) ...
Setting up xserver-xorg-video-intel (2:2.14.0-4ubuntu7.2) ...
Setting up soprano-daemon (2.5.63+dfsg.1-0ubuntu1.1) ...
Setting up libsoprano4 (2.5.63+dfsg.1-0ubuntu1.1) ...
Setting up libreoffice-core (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-base-core (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-writer (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-calc (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-draw (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-impress (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-gtk (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-gnome (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-kde (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up python-uno (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-math (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-emailmerge (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-help-en-us (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up mozilla-libreoffice (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up sun-java6-jre (6.26-1natty1) ...
Setting up libreoffice-style-human (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-style-galaxy (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-style-oxygen (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-common (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-java-common (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-base (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-officebean (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-report-builder-bin (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice-filter-mobiledev (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up libreoffice (1:3.3.3-1ubuntu2) ...
Setting up sun-java6-fonts (6.26-1natty1) ...
Setting up sun-java6-bin (6.26-1natty1) ...
Installing new version of config file /etc/java-6-sun/security/java.policy ...
Processing triggers for libc-bin ...
ldconfig deferred processing now taking place
Processing triggers for menu ...
Processing triggers for python-central ...
Errors were encountered while processing:
 bcmwl-kernel-source
Setting up bcmwl-kernel-source (5.100.82.38+bdcom-0ubuntu3.1) ...
/var/lib/dpkg/info/bcmwl-kernel-source.postinst: 53: Syntax error: "fi" unexpected (expecting ";;")
dpkg: error processing bcmwl-kernel-source (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 2
Errors were encountered while processing:
 bcmwl-kernel-source

```

Why is there always a code error saying:
> 
Errors were encountered while processing:
 bcmwl-kernel-source
Setting up bcmwl-kernel-source (5.100.82.38+bdcom-0ubuntu3.1) ...
/var/lib/dpkg/info/bcmwl-kernel-source.postinst: 53: Syntax error: "fi" unexpected (expecting ";;")
dpkg: error processing bcmwl-kernel-source (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 2
Errors were encountered while processing:
 bcmwl-kernel-source


What is up with the exit status 2 ??? Everything seems to work despite the failure... or I think it does. I could be wrong.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-07-30
The "this is not an authenticated Ubuntu package" is only an error message telling you that a package installation failed, and an automatic bug report can't be sent because that particular package is not from Ubuntu itself. This is talking about a single package itself, not your entire Ubuntu.

It's quite a strange occurance of the bcmwl error message. Basically I think what you want to do is this:

sudo rm /var/lib/dpkg/info/bcmwl-kernel-source.postinst
sudo apt-get update

(You put those commands into the terminal).

This should allow the package to install successfully. After doing this, remove the bcmwl-kernel-source package and install it again to get the original postinst script.

---

