---
title: "11.04 install - battery not charging"
date: 2011-07-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by davidp7 on 2011-07-23
Hi

my dell mini 9 has been running on ubuntu 8,04 with no problems but in  a moment of madness i decided to install 11.04. Now the battery will not charge. If i click once on the battery icon it indicates that it is charged but in the stats it gives the percentage as 0% but capacity as 100%. It gives time to empty and time to full as 0 secs, Any advice - dumbed down please - would be appreciated.

many thanks, david

---

### Post by sadaruwan12 on 2011-07-23
OK, what happens when pull the main power cord out does it remains on or just goes off as soon as you pull the plug.

---

### Post by davidp7 on 2011-07-23
Hi 

yes it just goes of. Ive had the problem for a week or two - been using google to search for a fix - so now the battery is drained. 

david

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2011-07-23
Is your battery charging if the laptop is turned off? I haven't seen any OS that would prevent a battery from charging. The battery level indicator may show wrong stats, but this would not prevent the battery from charging. My guess would be that either your battery or your power supply is dead.

---

### Post by sadaruwan12 on 2011-07-23
I've to agree with 2F4U OS's doesn't make batteries go bye bye. Well have check your battery got short circuited or some thing like that have happened.

---

### Post by shad0w_walker on 2011-07-23
My last netbook was a Mini 9, lovely little thing. Have you tried taking out the battery, making sure the contacts are clean and reseating it? It's possible that it's simply got some build up/grime on the connectors and isn't charging properly cause of that. If not and it doesn't charge while turned off, it's probably a dead battery. You should be able to find another on ebay fairly cheaply.

---

### Post by davidp7 on 2011-07-23
Can my battery or plug just die like that? Probably a silly question. Also it does not charge when switched off - so its actually not going to be the OS then i assume. Strange though as it was all working before install.. One last question, as the stats list it as 100% capacity does this not suggest that it is still ok? or time to get a new battery and try that.

---

### Post by sadaruwan12 on 2011-07-23
No my friend no question is stupid. That could happen this same thing happened to a fujitsu lap I installed it was working with a win7 after format and re-install battery was dead cause power flux so no worries just get the battery checked and before buying check your lap as well for any other mishaps.

---

### Post by davidp7 on 2011-07-23
ok, thanks everyone for the advice. Its appreciated

best wishes, david

---

### Post by pieuvre on 2011-11-11
I guys, I've got the same king of problem but the battery manager is stuck at 71% ... 

when I unplug it goes immediately off. 

here are my results 
```
pieuvre@NC10:~$ cat /proc/acpi/battery/BAT1/state

present:                 yes
capacity state:          ok
charging state:          charging
present rate:            0 mA
remaining capacity:      1491 mAh
present voltage:         11975 mV

pieuvre@NC10:~$ cat /proc/acpi/battery/BAT1/info

present:                 yes
design capacity:         5200 mAh
last full capacity:      2100 mAh
battery technology:      rechargeable
design voltage:          11100 mV
design capacity warning: 0 mAh
design capacity low:     63 mAh
cycle count:		  0
capacity granularity 1:  1 mAh
capacity granularity 2:  1 mAh
model number:            
serial number:           
battery type:            LION
OEM info:                SAMSUNG Electronics

```

Is my battery really dead ? :(


Thanks in advance for your time !
Pieuvre

---

