---
title: "JUST CAN'T START (Again)"
date: 2008-10-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by spike_naples on 2008-10-04
These are my PC specs:

P4 2.8Ghz
1 gig ram
2x 40gb Seagate Drives
LG DVD-RW
NVIDIA 5500 256mb

I really can't get Ubuntu to load cleanly (Di talaga ako makapasok ng maayos sa ubuntu). I always have to restart many times over before I get to log in. I was able to get in only twice and got to appreciate the beauty and efficiency of the software but somehow it hangs when I do (or dont do) something.

I suspect a graphics glitch...

I'm back to using the very bloated WinXP as thats all I can do for now.

I have 2 discs, the alternate and the live and with the two I get the same results. I need help please. I really want to use Ubuntu and I believe in the program but it just doesn't install right.

I know I have to do tweaking because I was able to get in already and use most of the programs that came with it like OpenOffice, The media and video player, the games etc. But at some point it just either hangs, turns black, freezes, and doesn't restart at all. I am also not familiar with Linux commands.

Hope someone can help me out.

---

### Post by terry_gardener on 2008-10-04
the following site might help. 

[http://linux-guider.blogspot.com/2008/09/nvidia-geforce-fx5500-on-ubuntu-8041.html](http://linux-guider.blogspot.com/2008/09/nvidia-geforce-fx5500-on-ubuntu-8041.html)

hope this helps.

---

### Post by spike_naples on 2008-10-04
Thank you. I'll check out that link and keep you posted.

---

### Post by spike_naples on 2008-10-05
just how exactly do I input commands in Ubuntu?

---

### Post by spike_naples on 2008-10-05
How do I input this command series into Ubuntu? I can't even start the operating system...



"This is my xorg.conf and you can copy a device, extensions and input device section. I make three xorg.conf and place it at my home/(user) directory which first xorg.conf named:"

xorg.conf1 is:




# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder57) Thu Jul 17 18:39:19 PDT 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Layout0"
Screen 0 "Screen0"
InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
RgbPath "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "dbe"
Load "extmod"
Load "type1"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Mouse0"
Driver "mouse"
Option "Protocol" "auto"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Keyboard0"
Driver "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Unknown"
ModelName "Unknown"
HorizSync 30.0 - 110.0
VertRefresh 50.0 - 150.0
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Device0"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Device0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
EndSubSection
EndSection

####################

---

### Post by spike_naples on 2009-03-23
Got it running for almost 3 months now. I had a screwed mobo...

I feel like an idiot for cursing Ubuntu then...

My apologies to those I affected.

---

