---
title: "12.04 I need to reassign 'new' /home to 'old' existing /home on separate HDD"
date: 2013-04-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cobaltinfinity on 2013-04-14
I installed 12.04 onto my SSD, overwriting the 10.10 install. 

Now I am in the position that everything, / and /home, are on my SSD, and I need to get rid of that /home and make it recognise the 'old' /home instead, on the separate HDD. I can access all the stuff on the other drive, but Ubuntu doesn't recognise it as /home obviously. 

I guess that I should have assigned /home to the existing partition on my HDD in the original install menu, and made sure 'format' was NOT checked. However, because I hadn't backed up my /home, and had not tried that before, I chickened out just in case it went wrong. 

Is there a way to do point Ubuntu to my other /home or would I be better to reinstall (again, lol) and this time assign /home in the install menu? 

Also, when I selected the SSD partition to install 12.04 into, I didn't actually click 'format', but it informed me old system files would be deleted, etc. Was this a mistake?



Thanks - I realize this question has been asked before in similar forms but as some of my details may be slightly different I didn't want to gamble and wreck up my /home. :D:D:D

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2013-04-14
you have to make sure your computer knows which partition is supposed to be assigned to /home
that information is located in* /etc/fstab* file

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving)

relevant parts
- Find the uuid of the Partition
- Setup Fstab/Preparing fstab for the switch

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-04-14
> **cobaltinfinity said:**
> ...I didn't want to gamble and wreck up my /home...

Following the link @Vaphell provides should give you the instructions you need.

Your real gamble is not backing up before you did something as dangerous as an install. Things go wrong all the time with such procedures. If you do not back up, you will have no one but yourself to blame if things go badly. Unless you have no important data on /home, don't repeat the same mistake as you apply the procedures in the link.

---

### Post by cobaltinfinity on 2013-04-16
> **Vaphell said:**
> you have to make sure your computer knows which partition is supposed to be assigned to /home
that information is located in* /etc/fstab* file

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving)

relevant parts
- Find the uuid of the Partition
- Setup Fstab/Preparing fstab for the switch


Thanks for this, worked like a charm. :P:P:P

I had used a similar method in via Fstab when I originally set up the separate /home drive, but I didn't realize you could use that approach without having to create a new partition. 

Thanks guys! Unity takes some getting used to but overall everything seems to run a little better and look a little prettier. :)

---

