---
title: "12.04 w/Gnome Classic: How to increase desktop icon size &amp; decrease nautilus fontsize"
date: 2012-12-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by swarup on 2012-12-27
My colleague is using Ubuntu 12.04 with gnome classic and has somehow changed the size of icons on the desktop so they are tiny, just specks on the screen. How do I increase their size?

Also, he has increased the font size in nautilus so it is huge. How can I decrease it?

---

### Post by oldcity11 on 2012-12-27
Dash > search appearance > bottom of window see Launcher icon size to adjust.

ctrl + - (minus sign) will reduce.  Not sure permanent method.

hth

---

### Post by superDave972 on 2012-12-27
I would imagine that CompizConfig has the ability to change the icon sizes.

---

### Post by swarup on 2012-12-28
> **oldcity11 said:**
> Dash > search appearance > bottom of window see Launcher icon size to adjust.

ctrl + - (minus sign) will reduce.  Not sure permanent method.

hth

I am using Gnome classic. Don't think there is a dash in gnome. How can I access this in gnome?

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2012-12-28
For icon size, open nautilus then on menu edit > preferences > views > "Icon View Defaults" and set to the size desired, Should work.

Don't know about the text...

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2012-12-28
> **swarup said:**
> My colleague is using Ubuntu 12.04 with gnome classic and has somehow changed the size of icons on the desktop so they are tiny, just specks on the screen. How do I increase their size?

Also, he has increased the font size in nautilus so it is huge. How can I decrease it?

My "update #1" here shows how to restore all default settings:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370)

But the standard "classic" session is incredibly buggy due to "hard-coded" Compiz settings so it's best to choose the Gnome Classic (no effects) session.

---

### Post by Ron O on 2013-03-27
> **arpanaut said:**
> For icon size, open nautilus then on menu edit > preferences > views > "Icon View Defaults" and set to the size desired, Should work.

Don't know about the text...


This is fine except that the choices in the dropdown list are limited. Full size is too big on a 27 inch monitor and 66% is too small. Is there a way to populate this dropdown list with more selections, like 75%?

---

### Post by BrunoLotse on 2013-03-27
On my gnome-shell desktop. 
Right click on icon. Option list pops up. One of the options is '**Resize icon...**'
Nautilus fonts. Advanced settings editor. Fonts panel. **Text scaling factor**.

---

