---
title: "9.10 Hp Zd8000. No networking whatsoever."
date: 2009-10-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Vic20 on 2009-10-31
Hi all, hope someone can help on this.

I have just installed 9.10 as dual boot with XP on my Hp ZD8369 laptop. I have played with various previous editions of Ubuntu over the years but was hoping 'this was the one'!

The networking both wireless and wired is not working and appears to be disabled though the hardware appears to be detected and setup. This is severely hampering me getting any further with doing anything on the machine. The same problem exists with the live cd

Having searched around the forums I have run a  'sudo lshw -c network' command in terminal. ..the result

[I]  *-network:0 DISABLED  
       description: Ethernet interface
      product: RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 2
      bus info: pci@0000:0b:02.0
      logical name: eth0
       version: 10
       serial: ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
      size: 10MB/s
       capacity: 100MB/s
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
      capabilities: bus_master ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=off broadcast=yes driver=8139too driverversion=0.9.28 duplex=half latency=64 link=yes maxlatency=32 mingnt=32 multicast=yes port=MII speed=10MB/s
       resources: irq:20 ioport:5000(size=256) memory:b0209400-b02094ff
  *-network:1
       description: Network controller
       product: BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 3
       bus info: pci@0000:0b:03.0
       version: 02
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master
       configuration: driver=b43-pci-bridge latency=64
       resources: irq:17 memory:b0206000-b0207fff
  *-network DISABLED
       description: Wireless interface
       physical id: 2
       logical name: wlan0
       serial: 00:14:a5:b4:23:89
      capabilities: ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg[/I]

how can I get these networks ENABLED? this is driving me nuts.

Bluetooth is working fine and everything works in Windows

Vic

---

### Post by peakpc on 2009-10-31
I have a compaq v5000 laptop and decided to load Karmic 32bit fresh as I was running Jaunty 64bit. My problem was the broadcom wireless would not be recognised after install (I dual boot with xp) after one no go install and trying all the options in other posts still no wireless. I just took a SWAG and I figured out the secret to making it work.
You have to install (enable) the hardware drivers running from the Live CD then (of course you can't reboot to make it stick), but if you install to the HD after that fwcutter will then be available to and you can enable and reboot it get it working. At least this worked for me.;)

---

### Post by Vic20 on 2009-10-31
Success!  ..Well partially.

I have managed to get the wireless working using info in [THIS]("http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8090292&postcount=1") thread.

Now I can progress easier in getting wired to work.

---

