---
title: "i need to know what is the meaning of  loop when  i open /etc/module file"
date: 2009-06-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dileep.kk on 2009-06-13
Hi friends,
I am new to ubuntu ...
I want to know about the script inside /etc/modules.
When I open /etc/modules,
I found only single line showing loop
I want to know what does it do.What is the significent of it.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-06-13
Mine shows:

```
cat /etc/modules
# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

lp
rtc
```

[list]
[*] lp = file printer or in unix/minix line printer
[*] rtc = real time clock
[/list]

---

### Post by nandemonai on 2009-06-13
```
nandemonai@blackbox:~$ cat /etc/modules 
# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

loop
lp
rtc

# Generated by sensors-detect on Wed Apr  8 22:20:21 2009
# Chip drivers
coretemp

```

> 
source for loop-AES encryption modules

This package contains source code of the loop-AES loadable kernel modules for Linux 2.0 - 2.6. It can be used with module-assistant, make-kpkg or stand-alone to build loop-AES module packages.

loop-AES can be used to encrypt disk partitions, removable media, swap space and other devices. It provides measures to strengthen the encryption: Passphrase seeds, multiple hash iterations, MD5 IV and use of alternating encryption keys.

Encryption keys can be stored in a GnuPG-encrypted keyfile, which allows the passphrase to be changed without re-encryption. Keyfiles can also be encrypted asymmetrically for multi-user access.

This package includes the cipher modules blowfish, twofish and serpent in addition to the default cipher (AES).

Modules compiled from this package require mount utils with support for loop-AES to work correctly. Such utils are provided in the package 'loop-aes-utils'. 

I'm assuming you have chosen the option to encrypt your home dir? I know I did ;)

---

### Post by Ocxic on 2009-06-13
The only time I've seen of "loop" being use is when your mounting a disk image or other non-physical type of media. ex: not a physical disk.

---

