---
title: "11.04 Software center within 10.10"
date: 2011-04-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Ninwa on 2011-04-03
Hello all,

I was wondering if it were possible to use Natty's new software center, what with ratings and reviews, within Ubuntu 10.10? I'm nervous about running an upgrade installation at the chance it might fail and I will lose all of my applications and settings, and this new software center is one of the things I'd really like.

There may be technical reasons that this isn't possible, maybe the ratings only apply to the repositories that 11.04 and up use anyway, but that's why I'm asking. Does anybody have any information on whether this is possible, or if it would be stupid to do so even if it were? 

Also, is it real easy to do an in-place upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04 if I just decide to do that?

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-04-03
The software center for 10.10 is available for 10.04, so if you wait until 11.04 is released, it will probably be available.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-04-03
> **Ninwa said:**
> 
Also, is it real easy to do an in-place upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04 if I just decide to do that?

Very. When 11.04 is released you'll get a button at the top of the Update Manager that you can click to start the upgrade. Upgrading takes about an hour or two (depending on your connection speed) and will require downloading a few hundred MB.

---

### Post by Ninwa on 2011-04-03
> **Paqman said:**
> Very. When 11.04 is released you'll get a button at the top of the Update Manager that you can click to start the upgrade. Upgrading takes about an hour or two (depending on your connection speed) and will require downloading a few hundred MB.

Ok great, this will be the first major revision I've really been through with Ubuntu. 

I attempted to test 11.04 on my laptop with Beta 1. I burned the installer to a CD and attempted an in-place installation. Unfortunately I wasn't very observant, and cant give much more detail than "something went horribly wrong," because at about 80% it told me that it couldn't continue. Much right it was, because when I rebooted (greeted happily by a 10.10 loading screen, despite most of 11.04 being loaded :p ) everything was completely broken. Nothing about gnome worked, nevermind unity, and every thing I clicked on seem to bring up a different flashing angry error box about how so and so was missing, or this and that was broken.

I do suspect that maybe, just maybe (ok most likely), it is the fault of my CD drive. Whether in burning or in reading, and so the media is to blame, because it's not like people are screaming about how broken 11.04 is. So I'll have to revisit what happened soon on my laptop, but didn't really want to risk it on my desktop.

What the hell was my point again... oh yes, thank you both for the information! :)

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-04-03
3.0.8 is the highest version available in 10.10 and you should have that . [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center)

---

### Post by Scunnered on 2011-04-04
**wolfen69**

I am interested in trying the latest Shotwell but according to their site the latest version is only for 10.10.

I would much prefer at the moment to stick with 10.04 so can you advise how I can add the software centre for 10.10 into 10.04.

Many thanks

---

