---
title: "any web site design programs in Linux ???"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jmax on 2009-04-24
I'm finding linux frustrating at the moment - I need a website for my business [ painting - as in oil painting ] so I need to create a website and NVU is dreadful, it crashes constantly especially with graphics !!! Is there a nice simple web page designer [ apart from writing out all that html code ] that's hidden somewhere in the repositories ????

Just something simple ... like Front Page express. I've had to go out and put Vi$ta on my machine instead of Ubuntu 8.10. Wine doesn't like Front page or Front page express either.

---

### Post by Twitch6000 on 2009-04-24
Well I  use bluefish editor,but that is not a WYSIWYG program.

I would suggest seamonkey as it is stable and easy to use.

However I would suggest even more to learn html and css so you do not need to use a WYSIWYG program :).

---

### Post by bjfs on 2009-04-24
Maybe the heavy [Aptana Studio]("http://www.aptana.com/") (not really in reps?) or the light "successor" of NVU called [KompoZer]("http://www.kompozer.net/") ?

---

### Post by Hospadar on 2009-04-24
Amen for learning html and css properly, it's really worth the time it takes to learn html and css (which isn't really all that tough in the first place).  Your websites will be a lot smaller (they'll load quicker and put less load on the server) they'll be easier to debug and more compatable with all different browsers.

Furthermore, if you ever want to use anything like php for server-side work or js for client side work, it's going to be a whole lot more straightforward and useful to you in the long run to learn how to code things with nothing more than a good text editor.

I'd suggest kate or scribes, but gedit (which is the gnome default) is really not too shabby either.
Bluefish might also be a good choice (it's designed for html)

---

### Post by gandaran on 2009-04-24
open office is good and simple to use, better than NVU.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-04-24
Kompozer is nice to assist with learning the basics, but be warned IMO it generates very sloppy code ;)

So I advise you look at an learn the code.

At the moment I prefer Bluefish. Very up to date in terms of options, very clean code (well no added code at least).

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2009-04-24
[Amaya]("http://www.w3.org/Amaya/") is in the repositories and is WYSIWYG.

---

### Post by achase79 on 2009-04-24
Amaya is another WYSIWYG editor, but I still advocate coding the html in bluefish or quanta.

---

### Post by wsonar on 2009-04-24
I like Gedit myself

and you may want to visit
[http://www.w3schools.com/]("http://www.w3schools.com/")

---

### Post by MN Noob on 2009-04-24
Definately learn html and css. As has been said, your site will be much smaller in size which will make it load faster. Easier to update and maintain.

I honestly just use nano if I am logged into my server, otherwise I use a html editor on my mac.

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2009-04-24
> **achase79 said:**
> Amaya is another WYSIWYG editor, but I still advocate coding the html in bluefish or quanta.
So would I but every time I've suggested it in response to one of these threads its been met with contempt. At least Amaya is w3c and if people insist on doing it WYSIWYG then its not in some forsaken program that wraps every single tag in CSS.

---

### Post by MN Noob on 2009-04-24
Ohh!!! Amaya. I forgot about that. I've used that before and liked it.
no contempt in that response... :)

---

### Post by llamabr on 2009-04-24
> **gandaran said:**
> open office is good and simple to use, better than NVU.

I've not given 3.0 a good look, but previous versions make terrible html editors, for all but the most simple code.

Dependong on the type of website, you're often better suited by downloading a css template from one of the many on google, and editing it yourself.

---

### Post by James_Lochhead on 2009-04-24
> **jmax said:**
> I'm finding linux frustrating at the moment - I need a website for my business [ painting - as in oil painting ] so I need to create a website and NVU is dreadful, it crashes constantly especially with graphics !!! Is there a nice simple web page designer [ apart from writing out all that html code ] that's hidden somewhere in the repositories ????

Just something simple ... like Front Page express. I've had to go out and put Vi$ta on my machine instead of Ubuntu 8.10. Wine doesn't like Front page or Front page express either.

Well I would like to say two things...

First, I think you are better off typing the code out manually. Code you type out yourself is always better than anything generated by a program, unless the program is very good like Dreamweaver.

Secondly, I have to say I think web development is better done on Windows (from a professional perspective). There are more powerful tools available (e.g. Dreamweaver, Photoshop & Illustrator) and it is easier to test the end product (since you need to take a look in IE).

Sure you can try get the tools working in WINE. However, it is bound to be a pain or the tools may not work well.

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2009-04-24
> **James_Lochhead said:**
> First, I think you are better off typing the code out manually. Code you type out yourself is always better than anything generated by a program, unless the program is very good like Dreamweaver.

Secondly, I have to say I think web development is better done on Windows (from a professional perspective). There are more powerful tools available (e.g. Dreamweaver, Photoshop & Illustrator) and it is easier to test the end product (since you need to take a look in IE).
That's kind of a contradiction, either editing the source is better or developing under Dreamweaver is better because Linux has just as many if not more text editors as Windows does!

---

### Post by bjfs on 2009-04-24
If the man needs a quick-and-dirty WYSIWYG editor then it is not really the best idea to train him on the ins and outs of the code, since there might be not enough time for this. 

All he probably needs is to put the images in the right place (and from my experience I know how dreadful that can be on a puny TEXT editor, come on!).

And **jmax** shouldn't be angry on Linux since it's just a kernel, right ? Blame the Free and Open Source Software guys for not being Dreamwearish enough :P

---

### Post by James_Lochhead on 2009-04-24
> **ddrichardson said:**
> That's kind of a contradiction, either editing the source is better or developing under Dreamweaver is better because Linux has just as many if not more text editors as Windows does!

Ah, but you are assuming that Dreamweaver is just a WYSIWYG editor. It isn't. It spots mistakes and lets you preview etc. I don't use it as a WYSIWYG. I use it as an advanced text editor.

---

### Post by James_Lochhead on 2009-04-24
> **bjfs said:**
> If the man needs a quick-and-dirty WYSIWYG editor then it is not really the best idea to train him on the ins and outs of the code, since there might be not enough time for this. 


Maybe. However, he wants to do this for his business. It is a good idea to make sure a business website is quality. That might necessitate spending a bit of time on it.

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2009-04-24
> **James_Lochhead said:**
> Maybe. However, he wants to do this for his business. It is a good idea to make sure a business website is quality. That might necessitate spending a bit of time on it.
Time is money, as they say.

---

### Post by jmax on 2009-04-25
Thanks all, Ill try that Amaya and see how it goes - I know that learning the code would be doing it properly but its not really convenient - I wanted something simple so that I could spend my time painting rather than in the office buried in html.  But point taken, it would be better if I had the time to learn it. Thanks for the Amaya heads up tho ... if its simple stuff, then Vista will be given the flick and ubuntu 9.04 put back on.

---

### Post by jmax on 2009-04-25
Had a look at Amaya ... its just what I need ... something to catalogue the painting images on the net so that customers can just see what my painting style is like and a way for a gallery to look thru the paintings to see what they might want to try for a sale or two. 

Simple is best ... ta for the heads up on Amaya ...

---

### Post by stwschool on 2009-04-25
To be honest yeah those who are advocating learning HTML & CSS are right in terms of long term but this guy only wants to make one site, his own site. He's not that bothered whether it's compliant to W3C standards, he probably just wants something that works, and is easy to use.

There are WYSIWYG programs mentioned by the other users, but you also have other options. If you get Wine you can run many windows programs on your linux installation. That includes pretty much any version of Dreamweaver up to the last two. That gives you even more options to choose from.

Remember folks, linux is about choice, and that means Windows software through Wine is one of those choices.

---

