---
title: "12.04 and 12.10 fails to boot after usb 1-1.4 message"
date: 2013-01-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by remarks999 on 2013-01-04
I'd like to first apologize for my lack of detail in the information as I'm new to Linux and I'd be happy to provide more if you point me in the right direction. 

I've tried both 12.04 and 12.10 and both have had issues booting. 

In 12.04 I couldn't reboot. A reboot would cause a hang and after the system hanging repeated times, it would start working again. When I would boot up in "regular mode", it would hang at a purple screen. I then tried recover mode which would hang at "fb: conflicting fb hw usage inteldrmfb vs EFI VGA - removing generic driver". I found an article recommending removing "gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode" from the normal boot entry but it wasn't present. Then I removed the quiet splash from the normal boot and found that after "usb 1-1.4: new full-speed USB device number 4 using ehci_hcd" the system would hang. Then I would get "INFO: task swapper/0:1 blocked for more than 120 seconds" with some hex details and a verbose output. 

I was advised to upgrade to 12.10 to avoid any potential issues although I wanted to run 12.04 for the LTS side of things. I did a full fresh install of 12.10 and not an upgrade. With 12.10, I have rebooted a few times without issue. I then tried to perform a shutdown which seemed fine until I tried to boot back up and again found I was having issues. The only difference I've found in 12.10 is that now it hangs after the following:

usb 1-1.4: new full-speed USB device number 4 using ehci_hcd
usb 1-1.4: New USB device found, idVendor=0489, idProduct=e042
usb 1-1.4: New USB device strings: Mfr=1, Product=2, SerialNumber=3
usb 1-1.4: Product: BCM20702A0
usb 1-1.4: Manufacturer: Broadcom Corp

And then in hangs again at task swapper. 

For HW this is a new Lenovo Z480 and any help you could provide would be well appreciated. Thanks!

---

### Post by nickpoole on 2013-01-06
I'm seeing the same thing on a Lenovo Z580 with 12.10.

After the USB device scanning is complete task sweeper reports that it's been blocked for 120 seconds, as does modprobe:94.

The conflict is intermittent: the laptop boots normally once every 5-10 power cycles.

I don't think the issue is directly related to any one USB device; having a USB flash drive plugged in meant that that was the last thing reported during boot before the timeouts.

Is there any way of identifying which module modprobe is trying to load?

Thanks,

Nick

---

### Post by sjnovick on 2013-03-07
Any luck?

---

### Post by brain128 on 2013-03-15
Hello,
I'm using a z580 with dual boot (Win7 and Ubuntu 12.04).
When i boot into ubuntu i got the same errors, but after 10 minutes or something the system will go on with the boot process without further errors. Don't know how to solve this problems.
Another option i tried: i booted ubuntu many times, and suddenly i got luck (or something :D) and the startup was succesfull without any errors.

I visited some boards and i found out that this might be a problem with the graphic card. I have a "Nvidia GeForce GT 640m" after a clean reinstall in installed the bumblbee driver ([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee)). Now, i can start without any problems sometimes, but not always - no idea whats wrong.

---

### Post by brain128 on 2013-03-19
I took a screenshot when the boot process was successful. When i compare both logs (the successful one with the log wich contains the errors), i found out that the following "steps" haven't been executed.

```
Begin: Running /scripts/local-premount... done.
EXT3-fs (sda6): INFO: recovery required readonly filesystem
EXT3-fs (sda6): write access will be enabled during reovery
EXT3-fs (sda6): recovery complete
EXT3-fs (sda6): mounted filesystem with ordered data mode. Opts: (null)
Begin: Running /scripts/local-bottom... done.
done.
Begin: Running /scripts/init-bottom... done.
```

After this step the ubuntu splash screen will be showed.

---

### Post by HugoNotte on 2013-04-30
Maybe this thread can be merged with this one:[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2117760&highlight=BCM20702A0The](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2117760&highlight=BCM20702A0The) problem seems to be with the batterie's firmware. Try booting just with the power plug in, take the battery out. At the end of the thread is a solution that seems to work, one has to recompile a file in the /sys/...Strange thing though is that other distros, which are not based on Ubuntu, don't seem to have any problems booting properly without fiddling around. OpenSuse 12.2 & 12.3 and Fuduntu boot just fine.

---

