---
title: "Install Problem! GNOME Power Manager"
date: 2010-05-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jayzee23 on 2010-05-13
Hi. Guys i have asus eee pc 701 that i freshly installed a ubuntu 10.04 im having problem that everytime i boot i get the Install Problem! The configuration defaults for GNOME Power Manager have not been installed correctly.
Then i get the Authentication required by wireless network and it never past that to get to my boot screen.
i can access terminal with ctrl+alt+f1 or f2 i just dont know what to type to fix this problem.
PLEASE ANY HELP WILL BE APPRECIATED!!!
IM NEW TO UBUNTU!!!!
THANK YOU!!!!

---

### Post by Kevanx on 2010-05-20
First of all, welcome! We were all new to the OS at some point. What's important is a willingness to learn, and contributed in any way you can.

Secondly, it sounds like two problems, which can make things pretty confusing when we're trying to help you.

When you say that you get the Install Problem - do you mean that you get a message or pop-up saying "Install Problem! The configuration defaults for GNOME Power Manager have not been installed correctly." ??

If that's the case, try running the following in your terminal (Accessories > Terminal)

```
 sudo apt-get remove gnome-power-manager --purge 
```
Type in your password when prompted. Then, once it's finished, copy and paste the following:
```
 sudo apt-get install gnome-power-manager
```
If it says that other packages will be installed as well, type Y, and hit Enter. If after this, it gives you any warnings, or errors in the terminal, please paste them here in between code tags (the **#** button in the window where you compose the message).

Next, the "boot screen" is usually talking about a menu well before you even log into Ubuntu - within the first two or three seconds after turning the computer on, that runs off the motherboard. Please clarify what you mean by "boot screen" when you're talking about wireless authentication - do you mean your browser home page?

---

### Post by JaseP on 2010-07-12
Your answers likely ***do not ***fix his problem,...

I am a realitively experienced Linux user and have encountered the same problem. I have an 8GB eee PC, early model (701 or 702)... Lucid 10.04 installs correctly, then after the first update, I got the same error message and gdm boot menu corruption as JayZee23. When trying to use apt-get, from the first terminal ( [ALT]+[F1] ), I got a syntax error message from apt-get,... so apt-get is corrupted as well.

GDM still ends up corrupted as well... only slightly less so.

Using aptitude got me slightly farther, but still no dice. running the command;
```

sudo dpkg --configure -a

```
helped slightly, but still no dice...

So, this is not likely a newbie "pilot error." 

This is likely an apt-get error, or a Gnome error caused by some sort of corruption generated by performing the update... It is also peculiar to these machines, since I have used the very same install disk on about 8 other computers in my home (before you ask, I have a Linux driven smart-home), all without problems. Only the eee PC has experienced these issues. An Atom based netbook, my dual core server, my dual-core desktop, my wife's P4 laptop, 2 dual-core HTPCs, another two ultra-mobiles, and an Atom based eee PC net-top HTPC all have no issues. So, I can safely say that this is likely a bug, not operator error.



_My suggestion for fixing or repair???_

Download the latest stable version of Lucid 10.04 install CD from the mirrors, one with the updates already applied, and failing that, try the UNR version...

---

