---
title: "14.04 - lost everything in /etc/udev/hwdb.d - help! ;)"
date: 2014-05-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-19
A quick background:  since 14.04 my Kodak digital camera is no longer being automatically mounted.  I read some things and decided to try a couple of things of my own making.  So, in /etc/udev/hwdb.d *was* a 2<something>gphoto<something>.rule file, which includes a list of devices.  I added my camera to that file.  That didn't work, and attempts at installing other packages have been failing because the file doesn't match with what it wants to replace.  So, in my extreme wiseness, I changed the file back to how it used to be.  Still no good, so I deleted the file.  At least I *intended* to delete the (only only the) file.  My wildcards must have been a mess because now the entire /etc/udev/hwdb.d directory is completely empty.  Which results in installing some software still failing.

So, I made an unintentional mess.  I thought about using Synaptic package manager and removing the udev package, then re-add it.  However, there are so many packages affected by that that I decided not to do it - I think it would leave me with a non-recoverable system.

So......anyone have any ideas how get the contents of that folder back?

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-20
not solved, but i had to reload from system recovery media, so I'll need to reinstall Ubuntu for dual-boot, which in the process will eliminate my problem.

Since it's not actually solved - i.e., no solution listed as to how to recover that folder, I'm going to leave this open.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2014-05-20
I thought /etc/udev/ was only to be used for local (custom) rules? packages should put their rules in /lib/udev/ - do you have an equivalent hwdb.d rules file there that was perhaps copied to /etc/udev and modified?

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-20
I don't know - but it's gone now!  ;)  Some how I got my entire laptop messed up and had to reload from system recovery disks.  Haven't gotten Ubuntu back on for dual-boot yet as I want to see if it is behaving itself first or if I need to send it in on warranty.  Don't want the dreaded "you changed it" response from the manufacturer ;)

Thanks again, steeldriver - you've always been of help to me.

Dave

---

