---
title: "9.10 firefox and network share question"
date: 2009-11-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by metzy85 on 2009-11-11
2 question here. I just installed ubuntu 9.10 and I am having MAJOR issue install add-ons into firefox does not seem to want to download them and if it finally doe sit just gets a error. 

Also how do I access a windows share, The OS is windows home server so i have to get a user name and password prompt and from what I have seen on google I cant get it to pop up

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-11-11
> **metzy85 said:**
> 2 question here. I just installed ubuntu 9.10 and I am having MAJOR issue install add-ons into firefox does not seem to want to download them and if it finally doe sit just gets a error. 

Also how do I access a windows share, The OS is windows home server so i have to get a user name and password prompt and from what I have seen on google I cant get it to pop up

what addon do you want to install?
you might want to look in synaptic for the addon.

for windows shares, you should be able to use nautilus.  In the address bar type
smb://computer/sharename

if that doesn't work you may need to try the ip address of the computer:
smb://192.168.?.???/sharename
Name resolution used to have issues in the past, I don't know about now.

Also some vista machines are very picky about what connects to them...I have had trouble with getting an xp machine to connect to a vista box once.

---

### Post by metzy85 on 2009-11-12
Addons I am trying to isntall. Xmarks, adblock,  and lastpass

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-11-12
lets try Xmarks.
what happens when you click the download link on this page:
[http://download.xmarks.com/download](http://download.xmarks.com/download)
I got a bar at the top asking me to allow the install
once I pressed allow, it installed.

---

### Post by metzy85 on 2009-11-13
Thats Ridiculous. I am not at all satisfied with this new version of Ubuntu. Past versions I have been quite pleased with but to me this like pulling tooth and nail to get anything to work.

The windows network connection thing works. But it says I do not have the proper permissions to access the folders. It still does not prompt me for a user name and password either.

---

