---
title: "9.04 - Install Firefox 3.5 ... Shiretoko? Problems with it"
date: 2009-09-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Dyegov on 2009-09-04
Hi there. I recetly tried to install Firefox 3.5 into my Ubuntu 9.04 since it doesn't come with the latest version of Firefox. I read many guides on the internet and ended up installing it, but it doesn't seem to be Firefox. It's called something like Shiretoko Browser or something like that.

It seems to work perfectly fine, just like firefox, but it messes things like Facebook chat, where it recommends me to switch to Firefox in order to use the chat. How can I fix this and get the real Firefox?

---

### Post by pedro3005 on 2009-09-04
Shiretoko *is* Firefox 3.5, it's just a different name for it. The warning you get is most certainly a badly programmed website, if you can, ignore it.

---

### Post by xir_ on 2009-09-04
id try Swiftweasel if you want 3.5, faster than the normal firefox build and seems to have few problems.

---

### Post by P.KO on 2009-09-04
Hi,

Just add this add-on [https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/59](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/59) and you can adjust the user agent to Firefox instead of Shiretoko.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2009-09-04
Yeh 3.5 is listed as shiretoko for the moment, firefox 3.5 is not a security update nor a mission critical update.

---

### Post by zipperback on 2009-09-04
Shiretoko is Firefox 3.5

You could always install it from the mozilla website as well.

[http://www.mozilla.com](http://www.mozilla.com)

- zipperback
:popcorn:

---

### Post by hyperdude111 on 2009-09-04
Rather than install and addon to get shiretoko to identify as firefox you can do it manually so it stays as part of the browser.

In address bar type
```
about:config
```

Search for this line 
> general.useragent.extra.firefox 

Change "Shiretoko" to firefox and remove the letters "pre"

---

### Post by Dyegov on 2009-09-04
> **zipperback said:**
> Shiretoko is Firefox 3.5

You could always install it from the mozilla website as well.

[http://www.mozilla.com](http://www.mozilla.com)

- zipperback
:popcorn:

How do you do that? When I download it from there I just get a compressed file that I don't know how to install...

> **hyperdude111 said:**
> Rather than install and addon to get shiretoko to identify as firefox you can do it manually so it stays as part of the browser.

In address bar type
```
about:config
```

Search for this line 


Change "Shiretoko" to firefox and remove the letters "pre"

That did it man! Now Facebook chat works wonders. Thanks a lot!

EDIT: Also, you know there's a Facebook app/game called Farm Town. When I try to open it it always says it cannot connect to the game, even tough it seems to be loading the information from the database just fine. How do I fix this?

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-09-05
> **Dyegov said:**
> How do you do that? When I download it from there I just get a compressed file that I don't know how to install...


The 4 most popular methods of installation of Firefox 3.5 (Psychocats, Ubuntuzilla, Repository, Shiretoko/Swiftfox) are available in the "Install Other Versions" section of the [**[COLOR="DarkRed"]Firefox optimization and troubleshooting thread[/COLOR]**](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1193567). 

There is also a detailed explanation of each installation method provided, comparing the most important differences. I personally tested all of them and they work like a charm, but I recommend methods 1 (Psychocats) and 2 (Ubuntuzilla).

---

### Post by pstefanini on 2009-09-16
Many of the web sites I use do not recognize Shiretoko; i.e. I am having the same problem as reported in the posted title that came up about a week ago.  

I am trying to edit the preferences as noted in one of the posts in response as this seems like a simple fix:

************************
Re: 9.04 - Install Firefox 3.5 ... Shiretoko? Problems with it 
Rather than install an addon to get shiretoko to identify as firefox you can do it manually so it stays as part of the browser.

In address bar type
Code:
about:config
Search for this line 
Quote:general.useragent.extra.firefox 

Change "Shiretoko" to firefox and remove the letters "pre"
*************************

However, typing about: config in the address or location bar gives and 'error' message.  I tried a plug-in "Nightly Tester Tools" that I saw someone recommend but can't don't know how to modify that either as there were no instuctions given.

Any assistance is greatly appreciated!

Phils

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-09-16
Should be 

```
about:config
```

without the space.

And if you can stand to wait a month, the Firefox branding comes back with Karmic.  It works fine on my Karmic machine.

I would shy away from anyone who tries to give you instructions for how to back port it from the Karmic repositories to Jaunty at this late date.

If you knew how to do stuff like that, as many of us do, you wouldn't need someone to tell you how to risk borking your machine. 

I think lovinglinux has some instructions for getting it a little more safely.

---

