---
title: "64 bit 12.04 System Failure"
date: 2013-05-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Glkanter on 2013-05-18
I have a multi-boot system with Windows 7, 32 bit 12.04 Ubuntu and 64 bit 12.04 Ubuntu.

Until today, I was quite happy, using 64 bit Ubuntu almost 100% of the time.

Then today, the 64 bit 12.04 system started giving me peculiar disk space warnings, and wouldn't run an mp4 video, and maybe some other irritants that I overlooked.

So, I figure I'll just reboot, and see if this strangeness solves itself.

Nope. I get some message about how the system can't configure the graphics or the input devices.

I go round and round selecting all kinds of options about recovery and troubleshooting, getting nowhere, fast.

Soooo, I'm writing this from my 32 bit 12.04 system bootup, which seems to be just fine.

I know I left out all the details that would allow for real troubleshooting. But before we start on that, has anybody else encountered something like this? And solved it?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Hekabe on 2013-05-18
Hate to ask the obvious, but is the 64-bit Ubuntu partition full?

---

### Post by Glkanter on 2013-05-18
By all means, ask the obvious. I *love* it when the obvious solves the problem.

I'll do what I can to give you a precise answer. 

On my 32 bit system, I just used System Tools->Preferences->Disk Utilities, then clicked on the volume, and right-clicked properties.

It said I had 438.1 gb free space, while using 7.2 gb. And some data was unreadable. A little odd, perhaps, because the whole partition is 477 gb.

The installation is less than two months old, and really only has the system, a few dozen PDFs and JPGs, and maybe 200 MP3s on it.
---------------------
I also noticed that the green light for Smart status is lit, saying "Disk has a few bad sectors".

I'll upload some screenprints to imageshack, then post them on my next comment.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Glkanter on 2013-05-18
[IMG]http://img339.imageshack.us/img339/2836/screenshotfrom201305182.png[/IMG]

[IMG]http://img405.imageshack.us/img405/2836/screenshotfrom201305182.png[/IMG]

[IMG]http://img853.imageshack.us/img853/2836/screenshotfrom201305182.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2013-05-19
Looks like your hard disk is on its way out. I would back up any important date now, and think about buying a new disk.

---

### Post by Glkanter on 2013-05-19
Indeed. It *is* a refurbished system that I just bought.

Thanks for that eye-opener.

---

