---
title: "Resolution Problems with Dell Studio 1535 Laptop"
date: 2008-08-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lilleprechaun on 2008-08-16
Hello!

I'm brand new to Ubuntu, and I really love it - both the OS and the philosophy behind it.

BUT

A major show-stopper is the problems with resolution I have been having. My screen is capable of 1280x800, but in System>Preferences>Screen Res, the only choices are 800x600 or 600x400. I might be able to live with this, except that Ubuntu stretches the image to fill the entire screen, thus blurring everything to an extent, making things difficult to read and making it difficult to browse the web.

Like I said - I am an absolute beginner, so if you could please try to dumb things down for me, I'd really appreciate it. I don't mind using Terminal and whatnot if necessary, but I need to know steps from the beginning, lol.

Also, I have an Intel 965 card.

---

### Post by crispy_420 on 2008-08-17
Have you tried manually editing the xorg options?

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Add the resolution you want in the appropriate section. 

This essentially what I had to do with my Acer on a similar chipset. 

If this was not clear to you just ask for more detail.

---

### Post by lilleprechaun on 2008-08-17
I do not know *where* exactly I ought to put "1280x800." I have copied and pasted my xorg file below, if that helps at all.

Also - I tried the sudo dpkg reconfigure thing for xorg earlier today - all it asked was a series of questions about my keyboard, *nothing* at all ever came up about my resolution. Then when I restarted, I was faced with the white screen - could not even log-in! Thusly, I had to reinstall Ubuntu - what a headache! This is also what happpened when I installed Ubuntu - I had to install it with the safe-graphics installer to get it to show me anything at all!!! And therefore, my resolution problems have existed since the start... <<sigh>>...

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by crispy_420 on 2008-08-17
From that it looks as though you are using the generic vesa driver.

When I get the notebook up and running in AM I will look at my Intel xorg.

---

### Post by lilleprechaun on 2008-08-17
Thanks...

---

### Post by Marzhall on 2008-08-18
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
 SubSection "Display"
        Depth        16
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "1280x1024"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

```
Hey N-Dog, try this conf, it might fix things.

Don't forget to back up your conf- just copy it and rename it (say, name it xorgbackup.conf) in nautilus. The computer may not let you paste- if that happens, go to 
Applications,
accessories, 
terminal
and type "sudo nautilus." A file browser will pop up, and you can copy& paste, then rename the file without worry.

Once you have a copy, if you get a crash, you can just reinstate the old conf to fix it and get back to a gui (graphical user interface) screen.

If your xorg crashes:
 When the dreaded white screen pops up, hit ctrl+alt+any number on your keyboard below 7. For this, you can use ctr-alt-2, ctr-alt-3, etc.; any number below 7 will work. This will bring you to a quick access terminal that you don't need xorg for. (You can use these at any time: to try, hit ctrl-alt-2. You'll see a black screen. To come back to this screen, hit ctrl-alt-7; that's the usual tty that your gui is on.)

Then, log in using your username and password.
Type
```

#This gets you to the directory where the xorg.conf file is, so you can mess with it:
cd /etc/X11/

# This renames the old xorg that is broken: 
sudo mv xorg.conf xorg.conf1

# This puts the backup copy you made into place:
sudo mv xorgbackup.conf xorg.conf

```

Then, go back to the white screen by hitting crtl+alt+7, and then hit ctrl+alt+backspace. This will restart your xserver, using the new xorg.conf.

DON'T REINSTALL AGAIN! 
 You don't need to, and it won't fix anything :p
If you need more help, hit me up on aim.

---

### Post by crispy_420 on 2008-08-19
Why not just add that needed display resolution into your xorg?

If I remember correctly, that is what I ended up doing anyway...

---

### Post by crispy_420 on 2008-08-19
for some reason bowser locked and double posted ... sorry

---

### Post by Marzhall on 2008-08-19
> **crispy_420 said:**
> Why not just add that needed display resolution into your xorg?

If I remember correctly, that is what I ended up doing anyway...

That's what I did in the conf I gave him. :P

---

### Post by lilleprechaun on 2008-08-20
> **crispy_420 said:**
> Why not just add that needed display resolution into your xorg?

If I remember correctly, that is what I ended up doing anyway...

Yeah, as "Marzhall" said, that's what he gave me, but it didn't do anything :(. When I went to System > Preferences > Screen Res, my proper res still wasn't listed...

Interestingly enough, Synaptics Package Manager says that I currently have a driver installed for my card (Intel 965), but it doesn't appear that way in Xorg... Would working on that help???

---

### Post by crispy_420 on 2008-08-21
So do you just want to get to the resolution of 1280x800?

That xorg posted before does not have that resolution present and the intel driver was not there as well.

Install the intel driver: xserver-xorg-video-intel

That supports all intel 800 and 900 series cards.

Change your driver to intel in your xorg.

Add the appropriate resolution you want instead of the ones like "1280x1024" etc.

Now reboot the xserver or just the whole pc.

---

### Post by TallMatthew on 2008-08-27
Has anyone posted a confirmed fix for this issue?

I just purchased one of these laptops and I cannot get X running with the intel driver.  All I get is white screens when using the intel driver. 

lspci -vv output:

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
	Subsystem: Dell Unknown device 0254
	Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR-
	Latency: 0
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 16
	Region 0: Memory at f6e00000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=1M]
	Region 2: Memory at e0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
	Region 4: I/O ports at eff8 [size=8]
	Capabilities: <access denied>

The relevant portion of xorg.conf:

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	VideoRam	258620
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Option	"DPMS"
	HorizSync    30-62
	VertRefresh  43-60
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "glx"
Load "dri"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
 SubSection "Display"
        Depth        24
        Modes      "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


Note:  the refresh values are from an attempted Opensuse live CD install (which also did not work).  Ubuntu could not read any information from the monitor.

---

### Post by lilleprechaun on 2008-08-29
No, TallMatthew, no confirmed fix as of yet! I have been looking, but cannot find one... I was beginning to think that I was the only one trying to run Ubuntu on this laptop.

Let's keep trying!!!

---

### Post by TallMatthew on 2008-08-31
I finally gave up and returned the laptop.  To Best Buy, which is where I purchased it from.  Whether that's relevant I don't know.

What's very odd is that Dell sells these laptops preinstalled with Ubuntu!  I found Dell's installation DVD posted online and used it to reinstall, thinking they might have some special driver or config for the LCD.  Nope.  I was only able to get a decent screen resolution using the VGA port.  Using the "Screen Resolution" app, I cycled through every resolution listed for the LCD, including low-res ones such as 640x480.  Still, all I ever got using the intel driver was a white screen.

I also tried installing Fedora, Debian, OpenSuse and the alpha Ubuntu release (Intrepid Ibex).  White screens on all of them.  So I don't know ... maybe Dell uses multiple vendors for its LCDs and some of them aren't compatible with the intel driver?  Or maybe the laptops we purchased were refurbished with new LCDs, again which aren't comptatible with the intel driver?  I wish I knew the answer.

I'm actually going to purchase this same laptop, but from Dell with Ubuntu preinstalled.  And a nvidia graphics card which, unlike the intel, is not blacklisted from compiz.  I should mention that this is the first time I've been unable to get a working X config with a Linux laptop (or any box for that matter) in the past ten years.  That, along with the fact that people are clearly getting this laptop to work with the same distro we're using, leads me to believe it has something to do with the hardware.

---

### Post by rafucho on 2008-09-09
This is very strange, I've got a Studio 15 with the ATi HD3450 and I just did an installation today with an old iso image of Ubuntu 8.04, and I did all the software updates, the wireless started working and the ATi drivers installed too.
The right resolution and wireless networking just after doing the updates, Ubuntu is amazing...

---

### Post by lilleprechaun on 2008-09-10
> **TallMatthew said:**
> I finally gave up and returned the laptop.  To Best Buy, which is where I purchased it from.  Whether that's relevant I don't know.

What's very odd is that Dell sells these laptops preinstalled with Ubuntu!  I found Dell's installation DVD posted online and used it to reinstall, thinking they might have some special driver or config for the LCD.  Nope.  I was only able to get a decent screen resolution using the VGA port.  Using the "Screen Resolution" app, I cycled through every resolution listed for the LCD, including low-res ones such as 640x480.  Still, all I ever got using the intel driver was a white screen.

I also tried installing Fedora, Debian, OpenSuse and the alpha Ubuntu release (Intrepid Ibex).  White screens on all of them.  So I don't know ... maybe Dell uses multiple vendors for its LCDs and some of them aren't compatible with the intel driver?  Or maybe the laptops we purchased were refurbished with new LCDs, again which aren't comptatible with the intel driver?  I wish I knew the answer.

I'm actually going to purchase this same laptop, but from Dell with Ubuntu preinstalled.  And a nvidia graphics card which, unlike the intel, is not blacklisted from compiz.  I should mention that this is the first time I've been unable to get a working X config with a Linux laptop (or any box for that matter) in the past ten years.  That, along with the fact that people are clearly getting this laptop to work with the same distro we're using, leads me to believe it has something to do with the hardware.

YES! This is so frustrating, because we *know* that it could work, as they ship these with Ubuntu on it....

Did you get your new laptop yet? How did it go? Is it working well??? 

And, thanks for the heads up on the other distros... I was going to try Fedora next... but now I won't bother...

---

### Post by lilleprechaun on 2008-09-10
> **rafucho said:**
> This is very strange, I've got a Studio 15 with the ATi HD3450 and I just did an installation today with an old iso image of Ubuntu 8.04, and I did all the software updates, the wireless started working and the ATi drivers installed too.
The right resolution and wireless networking just after doing the updates, Ubuntu is amazing...

Well, you have an ATI... we have Intel 965... so I think that that definitely has something to do with it...  <Sigh> I'm very jealous that yous works fine!!! :)

---

### Post by grettir on 2008-09-21
Hi rafucho, I just got the same laptop model today, and for me everything is working fine except for the display (can't get it above 800x600).  Would you mind posting your xorg.conf file here?  Thanks!

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-10-29
> **lilleprechaun said:**
> Well, you have an ATI... we have Intel 965... so I think that that definitely has something to do with it...  <Sigh> I'm very jealous that yous works fine!!! :)

lillep is right the same problem occurs with me as well .. same old 800x600 display. Have tried a lot of fix to this. After all my efforts I am conviced that its the effect of Intel GMA X3100 (or the 965 chipset). I have seen the drivers for this VGA but somehow cannot get download them from the git ripository (interested people can see this website - [http://intellinuxgraphics.org/download.html](http://intellinuxgraphics.org/download.html)). If someone can tell me/or has installed these drivers successfully - then i think the problem can be solved.

Also this thread might be helpful
[http://ge.ubuntuforums.com/showthread.php?t=900629&](http://ge.ubuntuforums.com/showthread.php?t=900629&)

Pls post if any improvements...

Thx

---

### Post by lilleprechaun on 2008-11-01
Suncoolsu,

If you find a way to fix it, let us know! Good Luck! I've about run out of ideas, so...

I was hoping that Ibex would be better, but I popped in the live CD and nothing has changed :^(

---

### Post by Ubugreen on 2008-11-01
Well,
Just because Dell is selling them with Ubuntu doesn't mean they got it to work either. I just bought the studio 1535 with the intel x3100. I've been running into all the same problems. Apparently Dell doesn't care if a computer boots up to a white screen before shipping. I've been trying to get them to take it back in between trying to fix it myself, no luck yet on either front.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-03
I tried fedora .. Ibex .. everything ends up with the familiar white screen :-) Hope some great savior comes and saves us ..

God Blesss

---

### Post by pwhitt on 2008-11-04
> **Ubugreen said:**
> Well,
Just because Dell is selling them with Ubuntu doesn't mean they got it to work either. I just bought the studio 1535 with the intel x3100. I've been running into all the same problems. Apparently Dell doesn't care if a computer boots up to a white screen before shipping. I've been trying to get them to take it back in between trying to fix it myself, no luck yet on either front.

i've run into this too.  Dell is really disappointing me.  i called their techs and asked if the hardware would work out of the box - they said it would.

i get it out of the box and i've put already over four hours into this.  if they aren't willing to take it back - i'd talk to a lawyer.  this is ridiculous.

i'm just glad i was finally able to get around the white screen of death and into 800xCrap.  at least now i can use the gui tools to set up networking.

i already miss gentoo.

---

### Post by pwhitt on 2008-11-04
> **suncoolsu said:**
> I tried fedora .. Ibex .. everything ends up with the familiar white screen :-) Hope some great savior comes and saves us ..

God Blesss

if you run xorg -configure, it will generate a new xorg.conf file that (on my machine anyway) will get you around the WSoD.

---

### Post by pwhitt on 2008-11-05
**Ubugreen**, **suncoolsu** :

i have the same laptop (Dell 1535 w/ i965/X3100 chipset) and i think i've almost had it.  i've no intentions of installing windows on this machine and will likely return it if i can't find a solution within the next couple days.

i have found that if i use the intel driver in my xorg.conf, i get the WSoD.  if i use Vesa, i get 800x600 max resolution.

the good news however - i have tried the vesa driver with a few modelines for 1280x800 and i've started getting screens that, although completely useless, look better than the WSoD.  this may be an option if you can find the right modeline.

does anyone out there know how to obtain the right modeline for this chipset and screen?  i've tried googling my eyes out and have found nothing that works.  any help will be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by carambole on 2008-11-06
Hello

I have this same problem with my dell studio 1535(Intel x1300).
I try install ubuntu, mandriva 2009,opensuse 11, fedora, Pc linux os, and there is always white screen into 1200x800 resolution because intel video driver dont work.
I found official dell distribution ubuntu hardy whos is installed in dell laptops studio series.

[http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/hardy/iso-images/ubuntu-8.04.1-dell-reinstall.iso](http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/hardy/iso-images/ubuntu-8.04.1-dell-reinstall.iso)

This distribution have dell drivers for hardware but video driver is this same in official ubuntu And this ubuntu I install in my laptops but its not work in 1200x800 resolution, only 800x600 vesa driver. I think that actually linux core (2.6.27.4) is not compatible with this hardware, and new core (2.6.28) solve this problem because this core have support for intel hardware.

Either we must wait for new intel-video driver.
I think that if we write info about this problem to specialist who prepare intel-video driver for linux, they can solve this problem.

---

### Post by pwhitt on 2008-11-06
**carambole**,

when you say 2.6.28 solves this problem, have you verified this with this laptop?  If it's simply a matter of grabbing the latest kernel, i won't send the laptop back yet.

as it is now, i'm requesting a shipping label and will be returning the machine to Dell - and i have no plans to ever give them a single penny again.  they messed up every aspect of this order and in their testing, they failed to even turn on the laptop and see that it booted.  i'm ready to return it on principle alone - but i'm moving soon and need a laptop for the travel and time between apartments.

so i'm in my last ditch effort to salvage this laptop - any info to help is GREATLY appreciated!

---

### Post by romandas on 2008-11-06
I just received my Dell 1535 in the mail today, with Ubuntu 8.04 preloaded and I'm getting the white screen of death as well.

I just spent 2 hours on the phone with Dell Technical Support and after being bounced around between 5 or 6 different "800" numbers, I still got nowhere. Dell's Ubuntu support kept telling me to buy a support contract with Canonical because my issue was "too complex". I'm sorry, but my issue is that the computer does not work "out of the box".

Did y'all narrow down whether this is an Ubuntu problem or a Linux problem in general? I'm tempted to wipe the system and install Gentoo on it to see if it'll work, but I really wanted to see what Dell's idea of an Ubuntu user experience was..

Btw, here are the phone numbers they gave me:
1-800-822-8965
1-866-622-1947 (official Ubuntu support line, apparently)
1-877-226-6642
1-866-9UBUNTU (Canonical for-fee support)
1-866-982-8688

Anyone have a better number to call? Or a solution? :)

---

### Post by pwhitt on 2008-11-06
**romandas**:

send it back and ask for a refund.

i received similarly bad support and have absolutely had it with Dell.  i'm never giving them another penny after this experience.

they apparently sell these units without even turning them on.

more to the point - i've tried several different *nix versions and a few different kernels.  the best i can get is 800x600 with the vesa driver.  perhaps if you *really* want to wait for intel to release a new driver, you might get it soon enough...

gentoo behaves the same way.  as far as i can tell, this is an issue with the Dell / intel 965/x3100 combination in this model laptop.

you might be able to return it and get one with vista and the AMD chipset.  then nuke vista and install ubuntu or gentoo or whater *nix you want.  from what i read that should be simple.  why Dell (in its infinite wisdom) is selling this unit/config is completely beyond me.

i am completely aghast at this customer service.  and i hope this opinion finds its way into any google search future Dell customers happen to perform.  people need to know how terribly this has gone for those who actually put money into it.

since i absolutely *have* to have a laptop, i am actually trying to install WinXP as i type this.  it was tough to find drivers and it may not even work.  if this doesn't work, i've gotten customer service to at least acknowledge that they might give me a return shipping label.  if they don't, i'll have to reach through the phone...

then i'll buy a mac.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-11-07
Is there anything useful in /var/log/Xorg.0.log when this happens?

Try switching to a VT (ctrl alt f1)

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-07
Sir,
Please tell me what to look for in var.0.log? I posted the same file on another forum and they said that the drivers are broken - i-e- intel drivers for my Studio 1535 config with Mobile 965GM chipset and X3100 VGA. 

Now here is the problem - Intel released xf86-video-intel-2.5.0 (new set of video-setting drivers) - I am keeping my fingers crossed that it would work - (Although to my dismay - some people are already running into problem with it) 

I tried installing this set of drivers but I am having problems. Can you tell me the appropriate way to install the drivers listed at this website  

[http://intellinuxgraphics.org/download.html](http://intellinuxgraphics.org/download.html)

the meaningful things are at the bottom :-). Please tell me how to install them - ie compile build and make? I was having problems with make

oR

is there already compiled 'stuff' in the repository?

Thanks for any info?

B.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-11-08
I've checked with both of the available BIOS revisions (A04) and (A05) on one of these systems now and didn't run into the same problem.  I'm not saying you aren't having it happen, but there is an unknown variable causing it.

Press ctrl-alt-f1 and then log in there.

If you are booted from the live cd, the username is "ubuntu" with no password.

If you are booted from a dell preinstall it's "oem" with the password "password".

At this point the most useful thing you can then do is install pastebinit:

sudo apt-get install pastebinit

Then run this:

pastebinit /var/log/Xorg.0.log

Bring that URL here and hopefully anything standing out in the log about failure to read an EDID or something else going wrong will be apparent.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-08
> **superm1 said:**
> I've checked with both of the available BIOS revisions (A04) and (A05) on one of these systems now and didn't run into the same problem.  I'm not saying you aren't having it happen, but there is an unknown variable causing it.

Press ctrl-alt-f1 and then log in there.

If you are booted from the live cd, the username is "ubuntu" with no password.

If you are booted from a dell preinstall it's "oem" with the password "password".

At this point the most useful thing you can then do is install pastebinit:

sudo apt-get install pastebinit

Then run this:

pastebinit /var/log/Xorg.0.log

Bring that URL here and hopefully anything standing out in the log about failure to read an EDID or something else going wrong will be apparent.

Kind Sir,
You were able to reproduce with Mobile Intel 965GM chipset and Intel X3100 VGA? If yes - then its a pleasant surprise and my 'poor' studio is cursed for sure.

Thanks
B.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-11-08
Yes, this is the case, I obtained the Intel UMA variant of the 1535 that contains the x3100 based graphics and had no trouble.  So at this point you've either got bad hardware, or another configurable item (such as the vendor of the LCD screen) that is causing a problem.  The Xorg log should hopefully tell more.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-08
following is my pastebinit output

```

http://pastebin.com/f15d0f08a

```

This one is on the vesa graphics card with 800x600 resolution :). I will try the one given by using intel graphics driver

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-08
the output with intel as the driver in the device section is as follows

```

pastebin.com/f7a736818

```

hope this will help u in solving my problems.. I seriously wish it is solved :(

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-08
> **superm1 said:**
> So at this point you've either got bad hardware, or another configurable item (such as the vendor of the LCD screen) that is causing a problem.  The Xorg log should hopefully tell more.

Sir, I know that I am a n00b but i beg to state my small question regarding this. 

If this was a bad hardware (if u mean on my laptop) then its highly improbable - because a lot of people (trust me I have devoted several weeks for finding a solution to my resolution problem) using the Studio laptop with x3100 are encountering the same problem. I have also upgraded the **BIOS to A05** as commanded by you. But to no avail.

I therefore think the configurable item is the problem :O :confused:

Thanks 
B.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-09
Superm1 Sir,
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=890843&highlight=Mesa+drm](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=890843&highlight=Mesa+drm)

This talks about GEM and stuffs which is way far beyond my understanding. But what I feel its a way to install the new videosetting drivers xf86-video-intel 2.5.0 released recently. I dont know (but i have a felling) that i will be able to gain the full visual pleasures of ubuntu but I think its worth the trial. Can you please put this things down in simple words for us beginners to understand?


I have installed libdrm2.4.0 (as the installation demands - libdrm version > 2.4.0) but when i install (by compiling and stuffs) i run into problem when i do make for drm (see my post - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=973827&highlight=xf86-video-intel+2.5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=973827&highlight=xf86-video-intel+2.5))

please help :confused:

---

### Post by romandas on 2008-11-10
superm1, you're using the intel driver? Which kernel and driver version are you using with the Studio 1535/X3100 configuration? Is it an Ubuntu 8.04 preinstall like mine and the others here?

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-11-10
This is with a preinstalled image yes.  It uses the intel driver (although not explicitly in the xorg.conf, just automatically from Ubuntu's detection).

I can boot up a live usb key of 8.04.1 and 8.10 with no complications on mine either.

---

### Post by romandas on 2008-11-10
I'm downloading 8.10 Desktop now; I'll let you know how it goes.

---

### Post by carambole on 2008-11-11
hello

I try ubuntu 8.10 with two monitors, my lcd laptops and samsung sync master 755dfx (stationary) in the same time. And I see that in my laptop lcd i see white screen but samsung is work great. 

I think that it is definitely dell studio 1535 LCD problem, because intel video driver is work.

I`m sorry for my english, i`m Pole (Poland)

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-11
I also purchased a Dell Studio 1535. Out of the box I get a "white screen of death."
After convincing Canonical that they need to help me for free because Dell is selling products that don't work, the Canonical rep determined that "if the system restore doesn't fix this, you have a faulty hardware."

I called Dell and told them that I wanted my money back. Instead, they offered to send me a new Dell 1535 with Ubuntu preloaded, 

The second one arrived today. This one also has the "White Screen Of Death" as soon as the login screen should appear.

I called customer support again, and informed them that I am documenting this whole experience; making a video that I will be uploading to Youtube as a warning to all potential customers NOT to purchase this system.

They got very upset. They claimed that they test their systems just fine. Obviously this isn't the case. They also informed me that Dell does not authorize use of their company name in videos that are uploaded to sites like Youtube. Apparently this particular customer service rep wasn't familiar with the concept of consumer reports. They eventually agreed to let me send them both back and get a refund. But at this point I'm not so sure if I want to get that refund.

The problem has gotten so big, that I want to see a full revamping of Dell Customer Service. How the hell do they think they can send out a laptop that doesn't work and that no one would find out? What's worse: many of us have had this problem, yet it hasn't been addressed.

Post your videos of your Dell Studio 15 with white screen of death to Youtube. Let Dell know that their company is making crap that doesn't work, and no one is doing anything about it.

---

### Post by pwhitt on 2008-11-12
**wonderbriefs**:

why did they give you a problem with the original request for refund?  let's provide ample thread material for anyone looking for information regarding dell, their products and service.

i only had to ask a few (too many) times, but they still agreed to give me a shipping label and credit.  this was last week.

i agree 100% with your remarks.  i have had not a single positive interaction with anyone at dell and i am absolutely sickened by the thought that they are profiting while treating their customers like this.

my story is this:
- i'd read about the WSoD and the 1535, so i called dell customer service and asked if this was common and if i should even order it.  they said it would work out of the box and if i had further questions i could talk to tech support.
- i talked to tech support and they said it would work out of the box.
- i ordered it and in roughly 1.5 weeks i got an email indicating it was going through final testing and would be shipped soon - the email said if i had any questions to ask.  so i asked about the final testing and if the system had been powered up and checked.  i received no reply.
- i received an email from the service rep's manager asking if things were being handled well.  i replied saying that my question hadn't been answered and also asked why i had been **charged for two laptops** when i only bought one.  i **again** also asked about testing and hardware functionality.
- i received a reply telling me to call their accounting department (which i did, it took three calls and perhaps two hours to straighten this out - i was disconnected each time).  i received no answers regarding hardware functionality.
- i asked why i hadn't gotten an answer about hardware and was told i'd have to talk to tech support.  i indicated tht i wasn't asking for tech support - only to be told what was meant in the email that said it was undergoing testing and if it would work or if i should prepare to install a new OS.
- i received a laptop that didn't work at all and started pressing customer service.
- i received a reply to my previous email saying it would work out of the box.
- after an exchange of perhaps 10 emails with customer service (the original rep's manager and her manager) i finally got the original rep to reply to me and ask how they could handle it.
- **also** they sent me the wrong case!  they didn't even get that right - the part number on the packing slip is right, but instead of a standard vinyl topload case i have a messenger bag.
- **absolutely nothing about this transaction went the way it should have.**

unfortunately i am moving across the country this week and need a laptop.  i ended up installing WinXP and am very unhappy with that and with their service.  although i got them to send me a shipping label and they said they'd credit me for the charges, i will likely not have the time to deal with this - i have things that are much more urgent to deal with than this POS laptop.

i am absolutely furious about this.  i could add even more details about the email exchanges and complete inability of dell's customer service to deal with anything correctly, but i think you get the point.

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-12
Oh, they've offered a refund, but said it would take 20 days.
I don't want a refund though. I want Dell to deliver what they promise: A Dell Studio 15 that works, and hardware that is actually tested before it is shipped.
I'm gathering enough evidence from now 11 different people that proves that Dell IS NOT testing their hardware. I also believe that Canonical is at fault for certifying Dell to sell Ubuntu Preloaded. I've gotten a response from Mark Murphy: Global Alliances Manager at Canonical about the Bug report I've issued, Launchpad [Bug 297245].
I realize that the standard way to deal with a Linux issue like this is usually treated as "if you can't fix it yourself, go back to Windows." But this time we paid for a product that had Ubuntu preinstalled. The company that installed Ubuntu failed, and it's suspect that this is an effort to sell more Canonical customer support contracts. If they cannot remedy the situation in the next few days, I will be mounting a large-scale effort to educate people on this situation.

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-12
As of right now, Mark Shuttleworth himself is aware of the problem. Here's the email I got from him.

> Thanks for raising this, Chris. I'll ask Tim Gardner to comment on the bug, as I believe he's closest to that work.

Mark

---

### Post by pwhitt on 2008-11-12
**wonderbriefs**:

i think you're perfectly right.  i just wish i had the time to fight with them about it.  i feel like i was completely hosed by this and i guarantee i will never spend another dime on anything from Dell.

PM me if you need any details from me to add to your list.

---

### Post by romandas on 2008-11-13
wonderbriefs et al,

Just so you know, I did download and test the Ubuntu 8.10 Live CD with the intel driver and got the same result. I have the logs from those tests, if someone wants them.

I'm glad to hear Mark S. is aware of the problem; any word on what he plans to do about it?

Ultimately, I'd just like a nice, working Linux laptop. I thought the Studio 15 looked nice, and the price was right. But man, the hours I spent on tech support where they told me I could either a) return it and buy a different one (and pay the difference in price) or b) buy a Canonical support contract even though the system never booted correctly.. it's just frustrating as heck.

If you need me to chime in as a "Unhappy Studio 15 linux user", let me know.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-14
Chris(wonderbreifs),
Thx for showing the determination to let Mark Shuttleworth know about it.

If u need any assistance from my side. Pls let me know ..

Thx

---

### Post by pwhitt on 2008-11-15
- just a bump to keep this thread near the top and see if there were any updates...

Unfortunately with my schedule and relocation, I was unable to return this laptop and am still running Windows XP.  This situation is exactly what should upset proponents of Linux - as it would give novice linux users the impression that the problem is with the OS, not the hardware vendor.

As a linux user of more than 10 years I was thrilled when I noticed Dell selling these machines preloaded with ubuntu.  It's already horrific that with Microsoft price breaks you still have to pay the same price (or even more) for an ubuntu machine.  However It's absolutely offensive that Dell will insist that you buy a machine configured with weaker hardware (Intel chipset vs ATI & 1280x800 instead of 1440x900) and they fail to even turn it on and see if it boots.

From what I have heard from another user and seen in various other posts, people are having a very easy time getting the machines sold with the ATI chipsets to run 8.10 with no problems at all.  Why did Dell insist on crippling these machines?  Make whatever argument you want about ATI vs Intel drivers - the simple fact is that not a single Dell employee bothered to pick up one of these machines and turn it on to see that it worked with the Intel driver before they started selling them.

I paid over $800 for a paperweight and had to invest over 8 hours just to make it useful (and unacceptably so).  I want my message to be as effective as possible.

Should we perhaps start a new thread specifically regarding our efforts to get Dell to at least recognize this problem?  There are already a number of other threads with pertinent information regarding this laptop - could a forum moderator combine them into a single "The Dell 1535 preloaded with ubuntu doesn't work" thread?

Let's not let this issue fade away...  I'm pissed.

---

### Post by 361jim on 2008-11-15
For the record, my experience with this steaming pile of studio 1535 laptop has been dreadful. It has been back once to to have the optical drive replaced. It simply did not work. That is more evidence to suggest that they do not test products before they ship them. I am also having the same issue with the intel video drivers and not being able to get above 600x800. I know I have to start fighting with Dell but I don't want to invest the time. It seems to be fine with Vista, but I don't want vista. Also when I boot to an xp pro install disc, it blue screens when loading windows prior to partitioning. It was too costly to throw. I am at wits end.

---

### Post by pwhitt on 2008-11-15
> **361jim said:**
> For the record, my experience with this steaming pile ... has been dreadful. ... when I boot to an xp pro install disc, it blue screens when loading windows prior to partitioning. ...

i hear you loud and clear.

i used a freeware application called "nlite" to create a windows install disc.  it allows you to include new drivers and service packs in an old xp install image.

you can find a zip containing the necessary drivers here: [http://wickmanstudios.com/content/view/17/29/](http://wickmanstudios.com/content/view/17/29/)

i used SP3 and all of the drivers from that link to make the image, booted from the new disc and all was good.  it should work for you...  however, IT WOULDN'T BE NECESSARY IF DELL DIDN'T SUCK!!!

sorry, but i had to say that.  good luck.

---

### Post by 361jim on 2008-11-15
Thanks! I will play with that while I await a response to my demand for a refund from Dell.
Geez!!

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-18
pwhitt: Since i cant throw my laptop now :( - cuz its too costly :(

what options do i have if I consider a decent linux distro  to be the only OS i want on this laptop?
- Is it too optimistic to think that i wud be able to run Ubuntu on this laptop?
- I dont want to run vista - from previous msgs - switching to Xp is also a big problem :( 
- Is developing a good driver for this kind of laptop (X3100 on 965 chipset) is hard or difficult.
- Given the big bunch of people who are having problems with ubuntu on this crappy laptop - something shd be done to make it work - If primitive machines can run ubuntu pretty well I think it wont be too hard to make ubuntu work on this laptop 
- What do developers (like superm1) think about this problem? Is it too difficult?

thx
B.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-11-18
> **suncoolsu said:**
> 
<snip>
- What do developers (like superm1) think about this problem? Is it too difficult?

thx
B.
I've still not been able to reproduce this issue first hand.  It sounds like it's only happening on the latest shipping units since I've tried with intel models both at 1280x800 and 1920x1080 from shortly after they launched.  

Until i've been able to reproduce it, it's not going to be easily solvable.  The log that was posted doesn't have anything indicative of a failure during boot up either.

---

### Post by pwhitt on 2008-11-18
> **suncoolsu said:**
> what options do i have if I consider a decent linux distro  to be the only OS i want on this laptop?
- Is it too optimistic to think that i wud be able to run Ubuntu on this laptop?

i can't believe it will take *too long* but i have no idea...  i still think it's an issue with the screen and we need to find an appropriate modeline.  i have no idea how to extract the information necessary to make one for this screen work however.

unfortunately it looks like it will fall on Dell to do something about it and i get the impression they simply don't care.  they're hocking their garbage and cashing peoples' checks.

try to get your money back, or go with XP until there is a fix.  i hate this option and wouldn't like to hear it if i were you, but unfortunately it was my only option as i needed this laptop to be useful as soon as it arrived.

good luck.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-18
I think i will keep myself satisfied with a 1000s x 700s (under vesa driver) display on Mandriva :-) .. Atleast it doesnt suck as much as Vista. Its a good linux distro. I think its a problem with KDE 4.1 that it crashes once in a while :-) but its not much of a worry ...

Hope that people are able to solve this problem asap :-) ..

**Superm1 ** I bought my laptop in the first week of September - I dont think that counts as a "latest shipping" :( .. I am surprised as u r not able to reproduce it with the same configuration .. :( :( :confused:

Once again my configuration is:
Intel Core 2 Duo T8100 2.1 Ghz - 64 Bit Processor
Intel Mobile 965 Chipset
Intel GMA X3100
Bios A05 (upgraded from A04)

**pwhitt** urs is similar?

Mandriva 2009 also crashes to WSoD if i change driver from vesa -> intel.

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-18
superm1,
I can't interpret the output of lspci -vvnn or xorg.0.log and these forums won't let me post the files since they're so long, but I've attached them to the bug report located on launchpad here. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/297245](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/297245)
PLEASE HELP US

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-18
Also on the bug report on launchpad [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/297245](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/297245), 
I've attached my modified xorg.conf that will allow you to use 1024x768 in Ubuntu, which still isn't the 1280x768 we need, but is better than 800x600.

---

### Post by romandas on 2008-11-18
superm1, I'm more than willing to send you whatever logs or information about the defective unit you'd like. Anything I can do to help solve this quite frustrating bug.

I'm still waiting on a replacement unit to see if that is any better.

suncoolsu, my hardware configuration is the same:
Studio 1535, bios A05 (mine came with this BIOS)
Intel Mobile Core 2 Duo, 2.1 GHz
2GB 667MHz. DDR2 SDRAM
Intel 965GM Graphics, video BIOS version 1533, 8MB with native resolution of 1200 by 800 and a 15.4" screen

(got all that from the setup screen)

Ubuntu 8.04 preloaded got the WSoD when it tried to switch to X. The Dell recovery CD did the same, as did the Ubuntu 8.10 Live disc.

I'm willing to test things out on this for anyone willing to work through me on the unit I'll be shipping back.

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-18
I'm no developer, and this is the first time I've tried to interpret Xorg.0.log, but from what I can tell I believe that the line > (II) VESA(0): Manufacturer: AUO  Model: 8174  Serial#: 0 refers to the LCD used in my Dell Studio 1535. I've confirmed that AUO is an LCD manufacturer. Here is their website. [http://auo.com/auoDEV/?ls=en](http://auo.com/auoDEV/?ls=en)

> (II) VESA(0): clock: 65.0 MHz   Image Size:  331 x 207 mm
(II) VESA(0): h_active: 1280  h_sync: 1328  h_sync_end 1360 h_blank_end 1337 h_border: 0
(II) VESA(0): v_active: 800  v_sync: 803  v_sync_end 809 v_blanking: 810 v_border: 0
(II) VESA(0): Supported additional Video Mode:
(II) VESA(0): clock: 65.0 MHz   Image Size:  331 x 207 mm
(II) VESA(0): h_active: 1280  h_sync: 1328  h_sync_end 1360 h_blank_end 1337 h_border: 0
(II) VESA(0): v_active: 800  v_sync: 803  v_sync_end 809 v_blanking: 810 v_border: 0

This looks as though I should be able to create a modeline like this...
> modeline  "1280x800@65" 83.46 1280 1328 1360 1377 800 803 809 810 -hsync +vsync

But even by deleting all other modelines from xorg.conf and inserting the new one, I still only get 1024x768, 800x600, and 640x480.

There is then a section of xorg.0.log that reads as follows...
> (II) VESA(0): EDID vendor "AUO", prod id 33140
(II) VESA(0): Searching for matching VESA mode(s):
What comes next is longer than the forums will permit but can be read on launchpad under the bugreport that I referenced in my prior post. The main point is that there are no values for any resolution other higher than 1024x768.

So I'm assuming that this LCD manufactured by AUO is not reporting that it is capable of a 1280x800 resolution. Is this because the Intel driver needs to be updated to support the AUO LCD or is it that Dell created a laptop with a budget LCD that doesn't really support resolutions that they advertise?

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-18
To everyone that's having this problem, I expect that we should have a solution soon, but we still need your help!
If you're not already registered with Launchpad, go register since that's where a lot of the action is happening.
Here is the bug report directly related to this problem with the Dell Studio 1535s that are shipping with the White Screen of Death. 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/297245](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/297245)
Reproduce your White Screen of Death, then upload your /var/log/Xorg.0.log file to the launchpad bug report. Here's how.

Now back up your current copy of X. There are a lot of different ways. I usually do the following.
1. From terminal enter this command
> sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
2. Press CTRL+O to save the file, rename it /etc/X11/xorg.confback
Now you have a backup.

Now, do just as follows.
1. reboot your laptop, just after the blue DELL splash screen hit the ESC key.
2. Select "Recovery Mode"
3. Select the option that says something like "attempt to Fix X"
4. Restart and confirm that you have reproduced your "White Screen of Death."
5. Reboot again, hit ESC and select "Recovery Mode"
6. Select "Drop to shell prompt"
7. type in this command
> sudo nano /var/log/Xorg.0.log
This will open the xorg log file.
8. press CTRL+O to save the file and rename this one "Xorg.0.logdead" just to differentiate it from Xorg.0.log in case it gets overwritten.
9. Press CTRL+X to exit.

Now fix X by your favorite means. If you used my rename method then, from the terminal type...
> sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.confback
Then press CTRL+O and rename it as /etc/X11/xorg.conf and select "Y" to overwrite.
Reboot. This time you should be able to load with VESA drivers again.

From the launchpad site, upload your /var/log/xorg.0.logdead file to the launchpad site here. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/297245](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/297245)

This will help aid Canonical and Dell in figuring out what hardware specifically could be acting up. At least I think so, like I said, I'm no developer.

Superm1, if you've got anything else to add or correct then please do.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-18
Will do it asap - Wonderbriefs - you are my hero !!

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-11-18
> **romandas said:**
> superm1, I'm more than willing to send you whatever logs or information about the defective unit you'd like. Anything I can do to help solve this quite frustrating bug.

I'm still waiting on a replacement unit to see if that is any better.

suncoolsu, my hardware configuration is the same:
Studio 1535, bios A05 (mine came with this BIOS)
Intel Mobile Core 2 Duo, 2.1 GHz
2GB 667MHz. DDR2 SDRAM
Intel 965GM Graphics, video BIOS version 1533, 8MB with native resolution of 1200 by 800 and a 15.4" screen

(got all that from the setup screen)

Ubuntu 8.04 preloaded got the WSoD when it tried to switch to X. The Dell recovery CD did the same, as did the Ubuntu 8.10 Live disc.

I'm willing to test things out on this for anyone willing to work through me on the unit I'll be shipping back.
romandas:

Please attach an Xorg.0.log from when it fails with the intel driver to the bug.  Make sure the log is using intel and not a vesa fallback though.
As was already pointed out in the bug, it's looking like it's exclusively to one LCD vendor that this is occurring thus far, so if it fails for you with a different vendor, that would rule that out.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-19
how to check for the vendor of my LCD screen? 

is there a way? Please tell?


thx

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-11-19
> **suncoolsu said:**
> how to check for the vendor of my LCD screen? 

is there a way? Please tell?


thx
In your Xorg log, when it parses the EDID, it mentions it.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-19
```

(II) VESA(0): Manufacturer: AUO  Model: 8174  Serial#: 0

```

I think I have the same Manufacturer as wonderbriefs - I get this output when I use vesa driver ..

If this is not correct then please tell me how to find manufacturer

Thx

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-19
There has been a latest addition to the bugsolution at the [www.freedesktop.org](www.freedesktop.org) -- wonderbriefs/romandas you wannna try it? I cud do it, but i gotta do some important academic stuff on my laptop and i dont wanna mess it up right at the deadline .. sorry :( -- try this and report wht u guys see? Keeping my fingers crossed

> 
I don't have one of these platforms to test with.  I noticed that the driver is
trying to enable spread spectrum clocking though.  I don't know what type of
corruption you'd see if the platform didn't support it, but it could definitely
cause problems.  This patch disables SSC usage and might help.  Can someone
with one of the affected machines attach their vbios to this bug?

```


# cd /sys/devices/pci0000\:00/0000\:00\:02.0/
# echo 1 > rom
# cat rom > /tmp/rom.bin
# echo 0 > rom

Thanks.

diff --git a/src/i830_display.c b/src/i830_display.c
index 006b634..bee3185 100644
--- a/src/i830_display.c
+++ b/src/i830_display.c
@@ -1251,7 +1251,7 @@ i830_crtc_mode_set(xf86CrtcPtr crtc, DisplayModePtr mode,
        xf86DrvMsg(pScrn->scrnIndex, X_INFO, "clone detected, disabling
SSC\n");

     /* Don't use SSC when cloned */
-    if (is_lvds && pI830->lvds_use_ssc && num_outputs < 2) {
+    if (is_lvds && pI830->lvds_use_ssc && num_outputs < 2 && 0) {
        refclk = pI830->lvds_ssc_freq * 1000;
        xf86DrvMsg(pScrn->scrnIndex, X_INFO,
                   "using SSC reference clock of %d MHz\n", refclk / 1000);
@@ -1331,7 +1331,7 @@ i830_crtc_mode_set(xf86CrtcPtr crtc, DisplayModePtr mode,
 /*     dpll |= PLL_REF_INPUT_TVCLKINBC; */
        dpll |= 3;
     }
-    else if (is_lvds && pI830->lvds_use_ssc && num_outputs < 2)
+    else if (is_lvds && pI830->lvds_use_ssc && num_outputs < 2 && 0)
        dpll |= PLLB_REF_INPUT_SPREADSPECTRUMIN;
     else
        dpll |= PLL_REF_INPUT_DREFCLK;


```

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-20
Sunscoolsu,

I don't really know what to do with any of that code. can you send a link to the discussion where you found that?

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-20
this link was posted on your the ubuntu launchpad bug page.. I have already seen this page before - but no solution was updated on it .. i have been following it regularly after u made the bug report on launchpad. It was a recent addition to comments on the WSoD bug with intel


[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=18342](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=18342)

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-21
I got an email from Dell today. It seems that all of us that are experiencing this problem had better send back our laptops because none of them with AUO LCDs work with Ubuntu.

> The problem with your
system is with the AUO 1280x800 panel, which for some reason brings out
a bug in the Intel driver. We have several different suppliers of the
1280x800 panel, and the manufacturing facility recently started shipping
the AUO panels about a month ago, which has caused a rash of problems
for customers (which you have noted). Up until that point, there had
been no problem reports from any customers with the other vendors'
panels. We have this contained now, and it won't be happening again. 
 
I apologize for all of the inconvenience this has caused you. Ubuntu
8.04 on the Studio 15 is a great combination, and this was a bad miss on
our part shipping the bad panel to you, and not getting this resolved
more quickly and easily. If you don't hear from the Dell support team
today or Monday, please let me know. 

I got a phone call not much later, and they're sending me a new one with an LCD that they can confirm works with no problems. So even though it sucks that there has to be a hardware exchange to resolve this problem, it seems that we've resolved the problem in a round-about way by finally alerting Dell that there's a defect.

For those who purchased a Dell 15 with Vista preinstalled then switched to Ubuntu and got the WSoD, I think you might be stuck waiting for a new Intel driver. I would try to stay involved with this bug, but I don't have any skills in writing an Intel driver and won't have the AUO LCD anymore.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-21
Huh !! too bad for me i guess :( -- God Bless .. thats all i can say

---

### Post by romandas on 2008-11-22
I also have an AUO LCD monitor, so that settles it for me. I hope the laptop they are supposed to be resending me does not have the AUO monitor.

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-22
It seems as though Dell has the problem contained and is no longer shipping AUO LCDs. I'd say if you exchange now you should be fine. And in other good news over on Launchpad [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/297245](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/297245), it looks like there is a fix for xf86-video-intel in progress. Hopefully the update will be done soon.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-22
I cant do anything now :-) I bought my laptop with Vista and over 4 months ago .. so i think I am stuck with vista and KDE4.1 on 1000s x 700s. I think for the time being I can survive with KDE 4.1 - yes the frequent crashes pisses me off but its far better than vista which sux more than a roomba.

thx

---

### Post by arshomette on 2008-11-22
Just chiming in here...

I received this laptop today.

I can't make out from the tech mumbo-jumbo what exactly I should do other than send the laptop back to Dell.

How can I tell anything.  I really need a step-by-step walkthrough just to get around the WSoD.  I trawled the entire thread, but my head almost exploded from the amount of hate toward Dell.  Mostly, they sound clueless and unsure as to how they can help, until today.

Interestingly, I ordered my Studio 15 on the 12th... is that still affected?

Thanks,
Andrew

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-23
Arshomette, yes on the 12th they were still having problems.

Your best bet is to call Dell Customer support, tell them that you bought a Dell Studio 15 that boots up to a white screen and want to either exchange it for a new one or want a refund. They should be more than happy to oblige. 

The only workaround is pretty much thick with tech-jargon, and will only get you a crippled version of the experience that you'll get with one that's fully functional. 
If you're absolutely adamant about trying to fix the one you want, then here's what you can do.

1. Turn on your laptop. Immediately after the blue DELL screen disappears, hit the ESC key.

2. Select option 2, recovery mode. A bunch of text will scroll past the screen, but eventually you'll be met with some options.

3. Select "Drop to shell prompt." Think of this like the old DOS Prompt, if you're familiar with IBM compatibles.

4. Now you're going to edit a sensitive configuration file called xorg.conf. This file basically tells the operating system what type of hardware it is using, and how to use it. Now type this verbatim.
> sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
"sudo" is short for "Super Do" which is short for "Super-User Do." In real-life English, this can be interpreted as "Do the next command with the highest of administrative privilege." This is usually followed by being prompted to enter your password.
"nano" is the command to run the text editor. This is analogous to "edit" in DOS.

5. Scroll down until you reach a section that looks like this.
> Section "Device"
               Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
               Driver         "intel"
Here's the kicker, "intel" IS THE CORRECT DRIVER for the graphics device installed. But for the better part of the last two months, Dell has been using an LCD monitor in these computers that brings out a conflict in the Intel driver. So in order to get any kind of workable screen you have to resort to what's called the "vesa" driver. This is just the most basic graphics driver that is compatible in some basic way with nearly everything you throw at it.
Just change the following from
> Driver         "intel"
to this
> Driver         "vesa"

6. Now press CTRL+O to save. For some unknown reason instead of calling it "Save" this program is called "Write Out" hence the O.

7. Exit the program and reboot normally. You should now be able to use your computer in a hobled 800x600 resolution.

Or you know, you could just send it back and make them give you one that works. They know that they did it wrong already. I think the chances have to be pretty slim now that Dell would screw it up yet again.

---

### Post by arshomette on 2008-11-23
That was by far an excellent post...

I used the Safe Graphics Mode on the Live CD.  This worked too.  Note to self: gedit isn't the only text editor.  ("Why can't I bring up gedit in recovery mode?!?!" said a very frustrated arshomette 24 hours ago)

Anyway, I saw several mentions about manually changing the xorg.conf file (gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf) with the resolution you want.  What are the supported resolutions and where exactly do you put them.

Will there be a solution software-wise?  I am backing my files to disk and will put them onto a new Studio if I send it in.

Thanks,
Andrew

---

### Post by RedRat on 2008-11-23
Just to chime in here. Some here are bitching about Dell and its support saying they are clueless. If you are discussing a LINUX problem on Dell do not call regular computer support but call the Linux support line. Perhaps some of you know this, but just in case here is the last number I have (you might want to check on this) is:
866-622-1947

If you call regular Dell computer support over a Linux issue they won't know what you are talking about. From what I have heard Dell Linux support is good.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-24
I think the safest way is to get a replacement - why do u want a laptop with "limited" capabilities if u can get a better replacement.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-24
I must commend all the people involved in this thread - i think it has become one of the most popular or sought after threads with over 4000 views!! .. can moderators come up with some statistics on the no. of views for the most popular thread on "Absolute Beginner Talk" section -

I apologize for posting this here - but was just curious

Thx

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-24
Redrat,

Dell sold the computer with Ubuntu preloaded and Canonical certified. Dell then failed to ensure that they did their job correctly. Canonical charges around $250 for Linux support. 

Why should anyone pay $250 to talk to a Linux expert, when the actual issue turned out to be Dell using hardware that is not Linux compatible?

Dell has admitted their mistake. But the only way I got through to them was by making it into a very big, very visible issue that they needed to address. 

From a customer service stand-point, Dell failed. Furthermore, Dell failed at hardware testing and quality assurance. Any hate toward Dell is fully warranted as it took a big stink for them to realize, "Oh, that LCD panel we're using from AUO doesn't work on our computers. We better stop using them."

> **RedRat said:**
> Just to chime in here. Some here are bitching about Dell and its support saying they are clueless. If you are discussing a LINUX problem on Dell do not call regular computer support but call the Linux support line. Perhaps some of you know this, but just in case here is the last number I have (you might want to check on this) is:
866-622-1947

If you call regular Dell computer support over a Linux issue they won't know what you are talking about. From what I have heard Dell Linux support is good.

---

### Post by pwhitt on 2008-11-24
> **RedRat said:**
> Just to chime in here. Some here are bitching about Dell and its support saying they are clueless. If you are discussing a LINUX problem on Dell do not call regular computer support but call the Linux support line. Perhaps some of you know this, but just in case here is the last number I have (you might want to check on this) is:
866-622-1947

If you call regular Dell computer support over a Linux issue they won't know what you are talking about. From what I have heard Dell Linux support is good.

yeah - i'm with the others here that voice displeasure with Dell...  no one at Dell even bothered to turn this machine on.  they shipped a device that hadn't even been booted - and their QA people passed it.

i never said their support people were clueless, however i did say that i ordered a machine after being promised it would work out of the box - and it didn't.

what i got (after being over charged and spending hours on the phone to fix that) was a paperweight and the wrong case.  and then i got a two week run around from their customer service people.

they can say what they want about their testing methods - they likely have a test fixture that plugs into various ports and verifies that something turned on - but when this machine, in this configuration, was built and approved for shipping, it is clear that not a single human being turned one on and saw it boot.  this is obviously true because these machines do not boot.  they are dead weight until you invest much time to make them even remotely useful.

this only gives novice users the impression that the problem is with linux and/or the devs responsible for providing linux drivers.  in fact, it is simply their poor QA policies and lack of testing that caused all of this.  there is no other place to lay blame - and yes, i feel the need to lay blame.  i was fleeced into paying over $800 for something that is exactly not what i wanted and circumstances prevented me from returning it.

i hate dell and i feel perfectly justified.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-25
Ditto - 

I dont hate dell as much as pwhitt or wonderbriefs - but i wud definitely be hesitant to buy dell products next time (hopefully that doesnt come pretty soon as i m stuck with this PoS Studio).

People who ordered it with ubuntu should have been able to boot it out of the box. They shouldnt have contacted the Linux Helpline - even if its good.

I seriously doubt how cud they have launched a brand with lcds like AUO which they havent tested on all the platforms :(.

---

### Post by Mayhem77 on 2008-11-26
<BUMP>

I just got my Studio 1535 today and experienced the same exact issue as everyone else has been having. Called support and was told that they JUST became aware of this issue this past Monday(Nov 24, 2008) and that I needed to return my machine and order a new one with the upgraded display. This supposedly will solve my problem.

That being said, I noticed that this thread has been around for quite awhile so why is Dell telling me its a new issue? Additonally, while they are telling customers they need to select the alternate dispaly, they are still offering it as standard on their website.

I guess this is a perfect example of buyer beware.

In the meantime, I am going to try some stuff with 8.10. I dont have much hope for it but will post any results if I'm successful.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-11-26
> **Mayhem77 said:**
> <BUMP>

I just got my Studio 1535 today and experienced the same exact issue as everyone else has been having. Called support and was told that they JUST became aware of this issue this past Monday(Nov 24, 2008) and that I needed to return my machine and order a new one with the upgraded display. This supposedly will solve my problem.

The root cause was recently determined, which is why support was just made aware of the issue.  In order to root cause the issue, all the possible panels had to be regressed.
There are 3 different vendors of each panel resolution, 2 different panel types available at each resolution, and 3 different sets of resolutions.
This means there is a total of 18 different panels that these machines can ship out with.

> 
That being said, I noticed that this thread has been around for quite awhile so why is Dell telling me its a new issue? Additonally, while they are telling customers they need to select the alternate dispaly, they are still offering it as standard on their website.

This particular panel vendor shouldn't be selected from all orders going forward at that resolution on the backend.

> 
In the meantime, I am going to try some stuff with 8.10. I dont have much hope for it but will post any results if I'm successful.
Watch [https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=18342](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=18342) for when the Intel driver gets the bug fixed.  That's where the problem lies right now.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-26
Chris (wonderbriefs) can u post the required file for Jesse Barnes on the freedesktop.org bugzilla? I cud do it but since he has ur EDID and ROM.bin file - u shd also provide him with Kernel Demsg as well?

You have been very helpful so far - pls provide him with the required details...

for the unfortunate AUO LCD users :( sake

Thx

---

### Post by 361jim on 2008-11-26
> **wonderbriefs said:**
> I got an email from Dell today. It seems that all of us that are experiencing this problem had better send back our laptops because none of them with AUO LCDs work with Ubuntu.



I got a phone call not much later, and they're sending me a new one with an LCD that they can confirm works with no problems. So even though it sucks that there has to be a hardware exchange to resolve this problem, it seems that we've resolved the problem in a round-about way by finally alerting Dell that there's a defect.

For those who purchased a Dell 15 with Vista preinstalled then switched to Ubuntu and got the WSoD, I think you might be stuck waiting for a new Intel driver. I would try to stay involved with this bug, but I don't have any skills in writing an Intel driver and won't have the AUO LCD anymore.
Wonderbriefs,
Can you, perchance post the name of the Dell Tech that communicated with you about the AUO display. The man that I have been talking to insists that they have not heard of this. I might be helpful to be able to refer this man to someone who knows about it. Just for the record, I nearly burst a blood vessel talking to this guy. They are trained to deflect and you have to keep dragging them back to the point. Thanks, I'm a  Linux noob and I am having fun with the OS. The dell hardware,  on the other hand, is giving me high blood pressure. Many thanks to all in this thread who have been keeping me sane during this little trial.

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-26
John Hull sent me the email on the 21st saying that the issue was already contained. [email]John_Hull@Dell.com[/email]
I'm still waiting to get my functioning replacement.

> **361jim said:**
> Wonderbriefs,
Can you, perchance post the name of the Dell Tech that communicated with you about the AUO display. The man that I have been talking to insists that they have not heard of this. I might be helpful to be able to refer this man to someone who knows about it. Just for the record, I nearly burst a blood vessel talking to this guy. They are trained to deflect and you have to keep dragging them back to the point. Thanks, I'm a  Linux noob and I am having fun with the OS. The dell hardware,  on the other hand, is giving me high blood pressure. Many thanks to all in this thread who have been keeping me sane during this little trial.

---

### Post by 361jim on 2008-11-26
> **wonderbriefs said:**
> John Hull sent me the email on the 21st saying that the issue was already contained. [email]John_Hull@Dell.com[/email]
I'm still waiting to get my functioning replacement.
I bought mine in early July. They have been inclined to do very little for me. After battling for quite a while, he agreed to let me send it back to have the display replaced. After telling me that laptop was only certified to run Vista. (slow burn) Thanks again for the help.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-26
361jim .. did u buy your laptop only to run vista? Because I also bought my laptop to run vista - if u have got them to replace ur LCD if u sweet talked them to replace ur screen - can u help me with the following details

-which Phone No did u call??
-some small details which u asked them?

Please help me !!

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-26
Chris - u can attach ur dmesg file by typing on Konsole the following

```

dmesg > dmesg.txt

```

what this command does is - saves ur dmesg output to the file dmesg.txt ...

i hope thats the file they want.

HTH

---

### Post by 361jim on 2008-11-27
Not much sweet talk. I was actually surprised they called me back. Here's the contact info I have. I don't what else to add that I haven't already written. Good luck. I got the below information by writing them a scathing letter about how good my experience has been with their optiplex and latitude products at work and what load this studio  thing is. I think using that John Hull name is your best bet.

Sai Madhukar.R
Executive Support Resolver 
Global Escalation Management Team 
Dell Inc., 
Ph:1-800-624-9897 Ext-53-77948
Working : Mon To Fri (9:30 am - 6:30 pm CST)

---

### Post by cupcake4170 on 2008-11-27
It was really hard to get the resolution to work on my MacBook as well.

---

### Post by RedRat on 2008-11-27
> **361jim said:**
> Wonderbriefs,
...Just for the record, I nearly burst a blood vessel talking to this guy. They are trained to deflect and you have to keep dragging them back to the point. Thanks, I'm a  Linux noob and I am having fun with the OS. The dell hardware,  on the other hand, is giving me high blood pressure. Many thanks to all in this thread who have been keeping me sane during this little trial.

Please make sure that you are talking to Dell LINUX SUPPORT not their regular PC Windows people. Two separate support systems at Dell. Linux support is at 1-866-622-1947. If your machine was bought with Vista and you give them your computer ID, it will route to Windows support.

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-28
I want to see [email]Joshua_Garakipati@dell.com[/email] fired.
> Dear Customer,

Please read this email carefully.

While reviewing the list of items to be returned, I've identified that we have not received the goods that had to be returned under the above mentioned returns reference.

We have now cancelled the returns as it has been more than 15 working days since the items have not been received.

For further clarifications, request you to kindly contact Customer Care on 1-800-624-9897.

Thank you very much and we hope you make Dell your first choice in future.

Regards,
Joshua Garikapati 

Dell is my last choice from now on.

I called Dell, and they've confirmed that I should be getting my upgraded 1440x900 LCD panel, and that Joshua Garakapati was not supposed to cancel my order.

Dell has horrible communication from one department to another, from one process to the next.

I'm thinking it would be nice to see Joshua Garakapati fired. He didn't even look into the fact that my replacement didn't work, then through my own efforts uncovered that 1/3 of all Dell Studio 1535s are manufactured with faulty hardware, and then was promised to finally get a third laptop that would actually work. I was supposed to get that third one today, but Joshua Garakapati went and cancelled me order.

DELL, YOU SUCK.

I WILL NEVER BUY A DELL AGAIN AND I HOPE YOU DON'T EITHER.

Canonical, please stop doing business with Dell. Find a more reputable retailer. As far as I'm concerned, you've lost all credibility.

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-28
I just received a call from a woman named Sonya from Dell, whom I spoke with before, and she has assured me that my new laptop is already in process and should most likely arrive by Monday. 

Sonya has been fairly good about her job. The rest of Dell is seriously lacking in the customer service, testing, quality, and inter-office communications.

My experience so far with Dell has been this...
If you buy a Dell laptop with Ubuntu preinstalled, you have a 1/3 chance of it actually working. Be prepared to wait for 14 days at a time for each laptop to arrive. Upon booting, it will most likely go to a white-screen. In this case, you must call Dell and tell them that you would like to exchange. If you call Dell customer support about a Linux problem, they will refer you to Canonical who will ask if you've purchased their expensive customer service package. There is a Linux customer support line, but you will have to search around online to find it since it's not printed on any of the information you will receive, nor does Dell Customer Support forward you there. Even when you've reported your problem, and one person from Dell assures you that they are addressing it, someone else from Dell will call and email you to say that they have cancelled your order. You must be persistent and hold them completely accountable in order to have anything work right.

If you are the type of customer who expects something to "just work out of the box" then you by no means should ever go with Dell.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-11-28
U r one lucky guy Chris :)

I called dell today - just with my fingers crossed to check if they can replace the LCD of my laptop - and they were not so complacent as they were to u and 361jim :D 

B :(

---

### Post by pwhitt on 2008-11-29
> **wonderbriefs said:**
> I just received a call from a woman named Sonya from Dell, whom I spoke with before, and she has assured me that my new laptop is already in process and should most likely arrive by Monday.

is there any way you could provide me with her contact info?  i'd like to talk to someone useful.

in my situation (living on the road for a month - the apartment should be packed in a couple weeks and moved to me) i couldn't send mine back in time.  i just gave up and ignored the last several emails from my dell customer "service" reps.

what i'd love to know is that i can get a replacement and then return the one i have.  i *had* to get this up and running and did not have time to replace it.  now that i'm at least in my destination city and settled in my office, i can take the time to deal with it.  i'd appreciate actually getting a working laptop that is at least able to run gentoo AND x windows.

i never should have put myself in a situation where i *had* to depend on dell.  i would have been much better off buying a mac, or any other *nix compatible laptop and following a how-to to get any other flavor of linux installed.  what dell is offering is garbage.

while i'm griping, i'd also like to comment on the quality of this thing.  i know it's not a top of the line laptop - but it's the flimsiest laptop i've had in my hands.  it feels like i could peel it apart at every seam.

---

### Post by Mayhem77 on 2008-11-29
> **superm1 said:**
> The root cause was recently determined, which is why support was just made aware of the issue.  In order to root cause the issue, all the possible panels had to be regressed.
There are 3 different vendors of each panel resolution, 2 different panel types available at each resolution, and 3 different sets of resolutions.
This means there is a total of 18 different panels that these machines can ship out with.


This particular panel vendor shouldn't be selected from all orders going forward at that resolution on the backend.


Watch [https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=18342](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=18342) for when the Intel driver gets the bug fixed.  That's where the problem lies right now.

Spoke to a Dell rep on Friday and they said that I essentially had two options, one was to return the laptop for a refund and then purchase a new one with the alternate display. The second option was to schedule a tech call and have them come out to my site to install a new LCD panel. Since I kind of need to get this machine running, I choose the second option.

I also have 2 Mini 9's on the way (Ubuntu) ... hopefully they fare a little better.

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-11-30
Pwhitt,
Sorry, she called me from the Dell call center, I don't have any information for her. 
If we were dealing with any other company, I would expect that they issue a product recall for all of these and exchange all of them. Sadly, I'm fairly certain that Dell is going to stand by their "15 day maximum return policy." 
If you purchased a Dell with Windows preinstalled and just want to use a Linux distro on it, then I think you might be stuck waiting until the new Intel driver is written.
I agree, the laptop feels somewhat flimsy, but I like a lot of the design aesthetics. The touch-buttons are really similar to the PS3, and I love the way the hinge is designed. To be honest, the looks of the laptop were one of the few reasons that I really wanted to get a working Dell Sttudio and not just a refund. I still stand by my statements that Dell has screwed up in customer service, inter-office communication, and most importantly, quality assurance. But, I think that that from a physical design aspect, Dell is doing just fine. I'd go as far as to say the physical look of the Dell Studio 15 is a good match for the eyecandy of Compiz Fusion.

Mayhem77,
From what I've heard the Mini 9's work fine right out of the box, although you get what you pay for as they are netbooks and not just small notebooks.

---

### Post by lilleprechaun on 2008-11-30
So, I have been struggling with this since July, and I finally found this. And it worked. It's amazing that I can actually comfortably browse the internet and post this from within Ubuntu without driving myself nuts due to the crap resolution.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=351647](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=351647)

Also, here is my Xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1280x800"
	Horizsync	31.5-50.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x768@60" 80.14 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x720@60" 74.48 1280 1336 1472 1664 720 721 724 746 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x800@60" 83.46 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1280	800
		Modes		"1280x800@60"	"1280x720@60"	"1280x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device2"
	Boardname	"VESA driver (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:1"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	0
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen2"
	Device		"device2"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor2"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor2"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

I hope this helps you all!

---

### Post by Mayhem77 on 2008-12-01
> **wonderbriefs said:**
> Mayhem77,
From what I've heard the Mini 9's work fine right out of the box, although you get what you pay for as they are netbooks and not just small notebooks.

That's good to hear.

Kind of off topic but I'm testing them for a possible roll out to our sales department who only use firefox, an email client (currently outlook) and occasionally open office writer.

Our objective is to bring everyone (about 60 pc's excluding our art dept.) over to Ubuntu within the next 6 - 8 months.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-12-01
Lille.. Sir,
I see hear that you use Kbd => Kubuntu??

Just to be sure - ??

Thx

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-12-01
> **lilleprechaun said:**
> So, I have been struggling with this since July, and I finally found this. And it worked. It's amazing that I can actually comfortably browse the internet and post this from within Ubuntu without driving myself nuts due to the crap resolution.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=351647](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=351647)

Also, here is my Xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1280x800"
	Horizsync	31.5-50.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x768@60" 80.14 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x720@60" 74.48 1280 1336 1472 1664 720 721 724 746 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x800@60" 83.46 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1280	800
		Modes		"1280x800@60"	"1280x720@60"	"1280x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device2"
	Boardname	"VESA driver (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:1"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	0
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen2"
	Device		"device2"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor2"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor2"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

I hope this helps you all!

**lilleprechaun**- Great that it worked for you. From your previous threads I realize that you have the same config as mine: **Intel 965GM Chipset with X3100 VGA?**
****
I tried what you have told us in the above quoted post. I changed my xorg.conf file as u did. But my X hanged it didnot crash though. It was hung at one place - i dunno why - It took forever to load somethings and I was not that patient and moved back to my original 800x600 resolution.

I believe what you did was constructed Modelines? 

Can you be kind enough to post a **step by step HOW TO**? I couldnt get the same results as yours. Also can you post you **xorg.conf** under the **[code] tags**? Thanks 

If i can get 1280x800 - then I will have an enormous respect and love for you.

Thanks Again
B.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-12-01
Lilleprechaun..
I also tried the hack mentioned in your post - I tried it as it was a hack which didnt require us to use the -intel driver. OK - i think i did everything wht they mention over there and still no change :( The screen was a bit blurry (I was starting to have hopes) but then the desktop was same old with the crappy 800x600 resolution :( ...

It will be very helpful if u can post a step by step HOW TO and what did u use from the 915resolution hack? Please give details of the necessary modifications that you did in you xorg.conf file :)

Thx
B.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-12-02
Pls someone!! :( :(

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-12-04
Where are the active people :) Come On!! 

pwhitt wonderbriefs Mario??

suggest help :(

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-12-06
Hey guys. Sorry I haven't posted in a few days.
After Dell agreed to send me the third replacement, I started getting conflicting calls from Dell saying they were cancelling the order. Someone at Dell cancelled the 1440x900 resolution one, and so they finally sent me a working Studio 15 with a 1920x1200 LCD and backlit keyboard. I've been very pleased with my replacement and have sent back my faulty laptop.

I still encourage anyone who bought a Studio 15 with Ubuntu preinstalled from Dell to press them hard to replace it. You will have to endure a lot before they actually send it. For everyone else who bought a Studio 15 with Vista and isn't having any luck installing Ubuntu, regularly check the bug reports and updates for the Intel Driver. I hate to say it, but since you bought the laptop with Vista preinstalled, Dell only owes you a laptop that can run Vista. If you don't want Vista and want Ubuntu, I would advise you to return your laptop if you can, and buy one elsewhere. Otherwise, you're basically stuck running Vista until there's either a new Intel driver. 

I've done what I can making calls and raising a ruckus to get mine fixed. But I'm no programmer. The rest of you who are stuck with this problem, I encourage you to post to launchpad here [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/297245](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/297245)
and to bugzilla here [https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=18342](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=18342)

This is a high-priority bug for both Dell and Canonical. Dell has contained the problem on their end by not using that LCD panel any more, but their customer service is still lacking. Luckily, this bug has caused large-scale internal investigations into their manufacturing practices in three different countries and hopefully they will get their act together. However, rewriting the Intel driver is still in process. From what I can tell, the main guy in charge of this is Jesse Barnes. [email]jbarnes@virtuousgeek.org[/email]
You can follow his progress on the Bugzilla site mentioned aboe.

Thanks again to everyone who has been taking part on this bug so far. I'm sorry I'm no programmer and no longer in possession of a faulty Studio 15, but my main powers in contributing to the Ubuntu Community are in communication. If there's anything else you want to contact me about, feel free to PM me, follow me on Twitter at [www.twitter.com/straythenomad](www.twitter.com/straythenomad) or read my blog [www.chrismenning.com](www.chrismenning.com) where I will soon have a full blog post and video about the process it took to get this thing, and how after all was said and done it really is an awesome product worth your money, if only Dell could deliver it right the first time.

---

### Post by pwhitt on 2008-12-06
**wonderbriefs**:
i'm happy you got this fixed - and with an upgraded LCD to boot!  i am not surprised they gave you a hard time...

thanks for posting about your experience however.  if you could provide me (either post or PM) the contact info for a person familiar with this problem, i'd be happy to follow up.  i value my time too much to continue dealing with this if it means more of what i've already dealt with.  hell, dell has a list of people who bought these...  you'd think if they gave a crap about our opinions they might actually burn the twenty calories it'd take to handle the replacements for us.

the way i see it, i gave dell a chance to handle this the proper way already.  hell, while  i was traveling recently i talked a couple at a hotel out of buying a dell.  they were torn between a that and a sony.  after my chat - they said they're both buying sony vaios.

i'll continue my own campaign until i can effortlessly get them to handle this.  i'm looking into getting a lenovo and giving this POS away in the future.

**suncoolsu**:
i have no idea how to help you man.  i suspect it's a matter of getting the  right modeline set up - but i can't tell you every thing you'd need to know to do that.  i played around and got something that resembled results - but nothing useful...  it was just mildly better than the WSoD.

good luck.

**everyone else**:
if you found this thread googling for info about dell's customer service or ubuntu offerings...  go to another vendor.  it isn't ubuntu's fault, it isn't linux's fault - it's dell's fault.

---

### Post by wonderbriefs on 2008-12-09
suncscoolsu,

could you try this?

> Jerone, actually that is worth testing out.

If anyone has the affected hardware, it would be very helpful for us if
you could test the following modeline in xorg.conf, using the "intel"
driver rather than "vesa" as was done in the link above:

modeline "1280x800@60" 83.46 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync
+vsync

This modeline was confirmed to work with vesa, and we notice it is
slightly different from what was auto-detected by the -intel driver.  If
this modeline works when hardcoded in xorg.conf with -intel, then what
we can do is add a quirk for this specific lcd model to solve the issue.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-12-10
hey wonderbriefs,
thx for still fighting for the AUO guys - u r already my hero :)

i added the modeline which was suggested (its the same modeline as MAYHEM77 used)

The good news is - I have improved the resolution now - Its not the frsutrating 800x600 anymore - here is my xrandr output
```

Screen 0: minimum 640 x 480, current 1024 x 768, maximum 1024 x 768
default connected 1024x768+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1024x768       61.0* 
   800x600        61.0  
   640x480        60.0  

```

which means this modeline takes me to 1024x768.

Which looks way better than 800x600 (trust me on that). In most of the cases I wont even notice the difference.

All these things are possible ONLY with VESA driver. If i change the driver to -intel -- The same familiar WSoD.

Thanks

Thank the guys... Is the jesse same as Jesse barnes@virtuousgeek? Cuz I looked at the freedesktop.org bugzilla .. this solution was not present :(

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-12-10
Superm1,
I have a request - Jesse Barnes posted a fix for the WSoD problem. Can you please tell me where to change things and what do i need to do. All I see is a C code over there, Can you answer the following question:
- Where exactly the code is to be pasted/used.
- If it has to be executed - How??

Thanks

---

### Post by carambole on 2008-12-10
hello
i find new testing intel video driver for Bug297245
[http://people.ubuntu.com/~bryce/Testing/Intel-Bug297245/](http://people.ubuntu.com/~bryce/Testing/Intel-Bug297245/)
Are you testing this package?, what are you think about it?

---

### Post by darryn.smith on 2008-12-11
I believe this problem affects the Dell XPS One Model 2010. 

Though instead of a white screen of death, I get the black screen of death. 

get-edid - reports:
 
parse-edid: EDID checksum failed - data is corrupt. Continuing anyway.
parse-edid: first bytes don't match EDID version 1 header
parse-edid: do not trust output (if any).

edid.txt attached - It would seem this panel is not reporting correctly either. 

vesa is the only driver currently working and at a horrible 800x600. 


Ubuntu 8.10 (up to date as of Dec-11-2008) i386

Any information you require just ask. 

I'm dying to use this machine instead of my laptop at work. 

Thanks.

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-12-11
**carambole**- if u have 32 bit architecture u can use the .deb file at Bryce's homepage to check if this patch fixes the intel driver bug 

If it does then YAY - Kudos to Jesse and others
If not - something more has to be done.

Thnks

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-12-12
Hi All,
After Months of frustration using the 800x600 resolution, installing most of the popular distros and visiting every linux forum to find a solution for my PoS laptop (aka Dell Studio) I have finally got my laptop in working condition with 1280x800 resolution.

Thanks to **Lilleprechaun** and **Wonderbriefs** for their help:

This **HOW TO** assumes that you have ubuntu running in 800x600 with Vesa as the driver:
Steps:
1.Open xorg.conf - sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
2.Go to the **Section "Monitor"** and add the following modeline (dont worry if u dont understand what modeline is)
```

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
Vendorname "Generic LCD Display"
Modelname "LCD Panel 1280x800"
Horizsync 31.5-50.0
Vertrefresh 56.0 - 65.0
**modeline "1280x800@60" 83.46 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync**
EndSection

```
3.Save xorg.conf and kill X (done by pressing Ctrl Atl Backspace simultaneously
4.Login ur display should have improved, 
5.type **xrandr** on terminal - The output wud look something like this
> 
Screen 0: minimum 800 x 600, current 1280 x 800, maximum 1280 x 800
default connected 1280x800+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1280x800       60.0* 
   1024x768       61.0  
   800x600        61.0 

6. If the resolution marked * is not 1280x800 - You need to use the 915resolution patch further.
7. Follow the steps mentioned in the link below.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=351647](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=351647) 

Following are the important details.
> 
1.Enable the extra repositories in Synaptic.
2.Using Synaptic, download 915resolution
3.In a console, type in sudo 915resolution -l
4.You should get something like this:

roger@roger-laptop:~$ sudo 915resolution -l
Password:
Intel 800/900 Series VBIOS Hack : version 0.5.2

Chipset: 915GM
BIOS: TYPE 1
Mode Table Offset: $C0000 + $269
Mode Table Entries: 36

Mode 30 : 640x480, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 32 : 800x600, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 34 : 1024x768, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 38 : 1280x1024, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 3a : 1600x1200, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 3c : 1920x1440, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 41 : 1280x800, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 43 : 800x600, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 45 : 1024x768, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 49 : 1280x1024, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 4b : 1600x1200, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 4d : 1920x1440, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 50 : 1280x800, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 52 : 800x600, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 54 : 1024x768, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 58 : 1280x1024, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 5a : 1600x1200, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 5c : 1920x1440, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 60 : 512x771, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 61 : 512x771, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 62 : 512x771, 32 bits/pixel
roger@roger-laptop:~$

The ideal resolution and colour depth for my Acer TravelMate 4101 laptop is 1280X800 with a colour depth of 32 bits.

As you can see from the above, it is already listed as Mode 50. However in my case, if that mode is chosen in 915resolution, the system breaks badly. I'm not sure if this is universal, or not.

5.What you need to do is choose a mode which is further up the list and a resolution/depth that you'll never use (Mode 30 is ideal)
6.Type in a terminal the resolution and colour depth that you want. In my case I wanted 1280X800 at 32 bits/pixel. So I typed:
7. **sudo 915resolution 30 1280 800 32**
8.The program comes back with confirmation that the new resolution has been patched to Mode 30, in this case.
9.Now all you have to do is to modify your /etc/default/915resolution file to correspond to the above patch.
10.In a terminal type: **sudo gedit /etc/default/915resolution**. You should get a screen like the one below:
#
# 915resolution default
#
# find free modes by /usr/sbin/915resolution -l
# and set it to MODE or set to 'MODE=auto'
#
# With 'auto' detection, the panel-size will be fetched from the VBE
# BIOS if possible and the highest-numbered mode in each bit-depth
# will be overwritten with the detected panel-size.
**MODE=AUTO**
#
# and set resolutions for the mode.
# e.g. use XRESO=1024 and YRESO=768
[B]XRESO=
YRESO=[/B]
#
# We can also set the pixel mode.
# e.g. use BIT=32
# Please note that this is optional,
# you can also leave this value blank.
**BIT=**

11.Now simply edit this file by changing MODE to the MODE that you selected. In this case it was **MODE 30**
12.Set **XRESO=1280** (Or the Horizontal resolution that you selected)
13.Set** YRESO=800** (Again set to whatever you selected earlier)
14.Set **BIT=32** (Again to the colour depth you chose previously.)
15.Save the file and re-start.
16.The system should boot-up in the new mode and it should also appear as an **option in the System>Preferences>Screen Resolution** menu.


8. Again check using **xrandr** - this time output should have changed to 1280x800.
9. If not - change resolution **option in the System>Preferences>Screen Resolution** menu to 1280x800.

Enjoy !

One fact I have discovered with this is - Shifting to linux is difficult but the experience definitely not boring like Windows.

This is **Lilleprechaun's** post in a simpified and detailed manner. The steps are what I followed to solve the problem.

HTH
B.

---

### Post by carambole on 2008-12-20
Bryce Harrington  wrote:
" We'd like to forward your bug upstream, however upstream requires
that you first test it against their newer driver code.

To save you the effort of building the driver from source, we've built
packages for the driver and its new dependencies.

So you have a couple options:

 1. Download and test .debs for intrepid, from:
     [https://edge.launchpad.net/~intel-gfx-testing/+archive](https://edge.launchpad.net/~intel-gfx-testing/+archive)

 -or-

 2. Download and test the Jaunty alpha-2 (or newer) Live CD,
     (which includes a beta of the new xserver 1.6 as well).
     See [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/9.04/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/9.04/) for ISOs

Thanks ahead of time! You can simply reply to this email to report your
findings.

P.S., if you wish to forward your bug upstream yourself, please follow
these directions to do so:
  [http://intellinuxgraphics.org/how_to_report_bug.html](http://intellinuxgraphics.org/how_to_report_bug.html) "

Its a good way for us.

---

### Post by carambole on 2008-12-21
I try ubuntu jaunty alpha 2 and its still WSoD,

---

### Post by suncoolsu on 2008-12-23
Yeah I tried that as well.. its still the same familiar WSoD

---

### Post by 361jim on 2008-12-30
At Long last, it is over! ( I hope ). After fighting with Dell over a good long period of time, I have got a new display and it popped right up to 1200x800 with no intervention on my part. I can not think of an obscenity that is good enough or bad enough to describe this experience with Dell. They actually had me send it back again. The "resolver" that was handling the case did not communicate with the tech and they sent it back to me without doing anything. Hence the need for swear words. I called the person that I had been dealing with and asked if there was any possible explanation. They shipped the part and dispatched a tech. It was repaired in my home today. In my case, the AUO display was the culprit.

---

### Post by carbon60 on 2009-01-20
I have tested Jaunty alpha 3 AMD64 on my Dell Studio 15, I still see the white screen issue with Intel driver. I am currently using vesa driver with only 1024x768 resolution. Even after I updated my xserver-xorg-video-intel driver from [https://edge.launchpad.net/~intel-gfx-testing/+archive/ppa](https://edge.launchpad.net/~intel-gfx-testing/+archive/ppa), I still have the problem.

Jaunty seemed to have resolved quite a few hardware issues with Dell studio 15. I have sound, wireless, mic, webcam work out of box. Two issues I currently have

(1) White screen of death
(2) Jaunty does not seem to be able to browse my mini dvd-vr disk. I have Vista dual boot on my laptop, the same disk can be browsed in Vista, but in ubuntu jaunty, it thinks it is a blank dvd-rw disk.

Any pointer would be greatly appreciate. Thanks.

---

### Post by Prot on 2009-01-21
This just came up on Update Manager. I don't have a Dell laptop to test it so i don't know if this fixes the WSoD.

type in Terminal:

```
update-manager -d
```

```
Version 2:2.4.1-1ubuntu10.3: 

  * i830-vbt-timing-hack.patch: Adjust h and vblank end to fix issue on
    Dell Studio 15 and other similar hardware.  Fixes issue where X 
    comes up with an unusable white screen on the LVDS.
    (LP: #297245)

This package provides the driver for the Intel i8xx and i9xx family of chipsets, including i810, i815, i830, i845, i855, i865, i915, i945 and i965 series chips.
This package also provides an XvMC (XVideo Motion Compensation) driver for i810 and i815 chipsets.
More information about X.Org can be found at: <URL:http://www.X.org> <URL:http://xorg.freedesktop.org> <URL:http://lists.freedesktop.org/mailman/listinfo/xorg>
This package is built from the X.org xf86-video-intel driver module. 
```

---

### Post by carbon60 on 2009-01-22
It turns out that fix is checked into jaunty, but the intel driver package has not been built correctly due to other problems. So it is not yet available for jaunty update. I will check back in a few days and hopefully it will be available then. Thanks a lot.

---

### Post by nmrcy on 2009-01-26
i have solved the problem with this xorg.conf file i hope it will help 
 ```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
#	Driver		"kbd"
#	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
#	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
#	Option		"XkbLayout"	"tr"
#	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
#	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
#	Driver		"synaptics"
#	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
#	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
#	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
#	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
#EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"intel"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
Vendorname "Generic LCD Display"
Modelname "LCD Panel 1280x800"
Horizsync 31.5-50.0
Vertrefresh 56.0 - 60.0
modeline "1280x800@60" 83.46 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
   Identifier   "Default Screen"
   Monitor      "Configured Monitor"
   Defaultdepth   24
   Device      "Configured Video Device"
   Option       "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
   Option       "DisableGLXRootClipping" "True"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by amaresh_83 on 2009-08-12
Hi, 

Now it's resolved, if you still facing same problem then please follow the bellow steps for Dell Studio 15, 

[LIST=1]
         Goto System --> Preferences --> Display
                      then 
         adjust resolution to 1360x768 (6:9) then do apply 
                    
Hope it will solve ... 
[/LIST]

Thanks,
-Amaresh
[www.eodissa.com](www.eodissa.com)
[www.myeodissa.blogspot.com:lolflag:](www.myeodissa.blogspot.com:lolflag:)

---

### Post by tommygreatboom on 2009-11-12
Thanks for good info.
I will try to fix my dell problem too.

---

