---
title: "9.10 won't shut down!"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-10-30
Pretty much what the title says.  I select shut down, the screen goes dark gray and it shows the Ubuntu symbol, that disappears and it just hangs even overnight. Any ideas?  

I don't see what the big deal about 9.10 is.  I should have stayed with 9.04.

---

### Post by bumanie on 2009-10-30
Put in a bug report to launchpad. In the meantime, try this code in terminal when you you to shutdown. > sudo shutdown -h now

---

### Post by ikt on 2009-10-30
> **myolbug said:**
> Pretty much what the title says.  I select shut down, the screen goes dark gray and it shows the Ubuntu symbol, that disappears and it just hangs even overnight. Any ideas?

if from the grub menu (may need to hold down the shift key on boot) you head into the recovery mode for the latest kernel available for your system (should be 2.6.31.14), head to: root (drop to root shell prompt) then type

```
sudo shutdown -h now
```

and you should see all the messages not covered by the usplash.

Hopefully it will say something that will explain why it's not shutting down properly.

> **myolbug said:**
> I don't see what the big deal about 9.10 is.

[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2009/10/ubuntu-910-review-karmic.html](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2009/10/ubuntu-910-review-karmic.html)

Lots of things in there I like :)


> **bumanie said:**
> Put in a bug report to launchpad. In the meantime, try this code in terminal when you you to shutdown.

That will still bring up the shutdown logo though.

---

### Post by VertexPusher on 2009-10-30
If Ubuntu (or any other Linux OS) refuses to shut down normally, you can force it to do so using the "magic SysRq" keys: Hold down Alt (or AltGr) and SysRq while slowly typing the following keys in this order:

REISUO

R will reset the keyboard, E will try to terminate all processes, I will kill all remaining processes (if any), S will sync all mounted file systems, U will remount them in read-only mode, and O will shut down the computer. You can type B instead of O if you want to reboot the system rather than shutting it down. These methods usually work even if the system seems completely frozen.

Of course this is just a workaround, not a fix. If normal shutdowns frequently fail, you should file a bug report anyway.

---

### Post by sub50hz on 2009-10-30
> **myolbug said:**
> I don't see what the big deal about 9.10 is.


So... remind us why you wanted to upgrade again?

---

### Post by muteXe on 2009-10-30
What was wrong with your 9.04?

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-10-30
> **sub50hz said:**
> So... remind us why you wanted to upgrade again?

> **muteXe said:**
> What was wrong with your 9.04?

I thought I would try the latest greatest.  I think a big problem is that while I did upgrade on 10-29-09, it was early and it upgraded the beta version and not the RC.

I wish at this point I would have waited!  There were some trivial little issues with 9.04 that I figured would have gotten fixed and they did, but I lost Shiretoko and inherited some freaky issues.  I know that FF 3.5.3 is was Shiretoko was, but it just dumped it and I lost the bookmarks.

But, the newest version of Opera finally works as fast as they say it supposedly does.  Before it was SLOW.  IF you have 9.04, install the version, 10.xxx I think it is.  It is supposed to be for Karmic but it works great on 9.04.  At least on my AMD64 system.

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-10-30
Can I do a re-install from a CD without wiping out the contents of my hard drive?

---

### Post by Zheldon on 2009-10-30
I get that problem but I have only noticed it when I installed Ubuntu via Wubi.  I just assumed it was due to the setup of running it inside Windows.

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-10-30
Anyone?

---

### Post by x C0MMAND0 x on 2009-10-30
> **myolbug said:**
> Can I do a re-install from a CD without wiping out the contents of my hard drive?

No, but you can backup everything and then reinstall.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-10-30
> **myolbug said:**
> Can I do a re-install from a CD without wiping out the contents of my hard drive?

Do you have a separate /home partition?

---

### Post by phillw on 2009-10-30
> **myolbug said:**
> Can I do a re-install from a CD without wiping out the contents of my hard drive?


How have you got ubuntu installed ?

A re-install will over-write your ubuntu area - you would need to backup your home directory to save documents etc.

Phill.

---

### Post by jfloydb on 2009-10-30
I just found out that my laptop (hard drive and monitor) has been running all night and all morning, with the lid closed. I set the power management to "suspend" when the lid is closed; but it did not suspend. The suspend option did work (for me) in 9.04, but it doesn't seem to work in 9.10. However, I have now set the power button (in power management) to "Ask Me"; so, when I'm done, I can push the power button and actually choose to suspend (or hibernate, or restart, or shutdown) the computer. It works, but, if this is a prevalent problem, I hope someone fixes it soon. 

Of course, you can click the "start" button and then suspend.

Also, I noticed in the power management a "suspend button" option. What is that? What or where is the "suspend button"?

---

### Post by Zheldon on 2009-10-30
Interesting, for me this is on a Dell Inspiron 1720.  I don't really use suspend, I'm either using it or it is shut off so I don't know about replicating the suspend feature.

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-10-30
Yeah I guess I am going to have burn everything to DVDs and do a clean install.  Too many little things.  Constant kernal errors, computer was sleeping and wouldn't come out of it, then the mouse wouldn't work, sound is screwed up.  I feel like I am running Windows, not Linux!:evil:

---

### Post by Tholley on 2009-10-30
Something that may or may not be relevent, but if anyone is doing an upgrade, make sure you run update manager 1st to make sure all updates in 9.04 are completed before trying to update to 9.10.

---

### Post by James2k on 2009-10-31
> **myolbug said:**
> Yeah I guess I am going to have burn everything to DVDs and do a clean install. Too many little things. Constant kernal errors, computer was sleeping and wouldn't come out of it, then the mouse wouldn't work, sound is screwed up. I feel like I am running Windows, not Linux!:evil:

Similar issue here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1306789](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1306789)

Except, I've tried doing a clean install and it didn't fix the problem, so be advised not always the solution.

---

### Post by otilesoj- on 2009-10-31
shutdown -h -P now

-P is for PowerOff after shutdown.

This should work

---

### Post by jfloydb on 2009-10-31
I re-installed 9.10 (for an unrelated issue) and the suspend mode seems to be working now...

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-10-31
> **jfloydb said:**
> I re-installed 9.10 (for an unrelated issue) and the suspend mode seems to be working now...

thanks for reporting this

.

---

### Post by phillw on 2009-10-31
Hi, glad you've got it working ... reading back through the thread ...

1) Try the LiveCD on your system 1st, this not only lets you test your computers' bits but does a pretty good job of checking your install cd 
2) BACKUP !!!!  (It's in my blog)
3) Why not try 'upgrade' 1st .... As pointed out, update everything via 9.04, then do the upgrade.


Everything working ?..... It should be ... leave it a week, have a play .....

All okay ?, then backup again & do a clean install to take advantage of ext4.

So far, so good.... 5 days to go for the last part.

Phill.

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-11-03
> **phillw said:**
> Hi, glad you've got it working ... reading back through the thread ...

1) Try the LiveCD on your system 1st, this not only lets you test your computers' bits but does a pretty good job of checking your install cd 
2) BACKUP !!!!  (It's in my blog)
3) Why not try 'upgrade' 1st .... As pointed out, update everything via 9.04, then do the upgrade.


Everything working ?..... It should be ... leave it a week, have a play .....

All okay ?, then backup again & do a clean install to take advantage of ext4.

So far, so good.... 5 days to go for the last part.

Phill.
I'll do a backup and then do a clean install.  I did the upgrade route using Alt F2 and *update-manager -d*, but it was early in the morning and it still said it was the beta version and not the RC.  

Maybe that is part of the problem?  I don't know, but I do know I am having a shopping cart of issues with 9.10.  I upgraded from 9.04 64 bit to 9.10 64 bit and I don't know what went wrong, but it isn't getting any better.  Maybe I'll do a clean install of 32 bit.  I do have a 64 bit machine.

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-11-04
Some additional issues related to this.

1. Battle for Wesnoth won't close.  It has to be shut down through system Monitor.

2. Certain buttons, i.e. on Facebook, don't always work.  This is most prevalent on FB, but I have had the issue on other sites as well.  I go to click on a button say to add a comment and nothing happens.  I could click all night, and other times I need to click twice.  Weird!

I'll post more as I remember.

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-11-05
Any ideas anyone?

---

### Post by YosefKaro on 2009-11-05
If you are on wubi, this is a known bug which they are working on an update for.

-Yos

---

### Post by myolbug on 2009-11-05
> **YosefKaro said:**
> If you are on wubi, this is a known bug which they are working on an update for.

-Yos

Thanks for the heads up Yos!

---

### Post by uberg on 2009-11-05
For future reference:  I have had similar problems in the past with upgrades or fresh installs.  Since then I have been using the strategy of keeping /home mounted on it's own partition.  This keeps all your personal data separate from the install/upgrade and allows you to go back and reinstall as many times as you want without ever mucking about with your data.  For instance this is the result of sudo fdisk -l on my system.

```
Disk /dev/sda: 320.1 GB, 320072933376 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xc25bc25b

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        2441    19607301   83  Linux
/dev/sda2            2442       38913   292961340    5  Extended
/dev/sda5            2442        4882    19607301   83  Linux
/dev/sda6            4883        5878     8000338+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda7            5879       38913   265353606   83  Linux
joe@jeanette:~/penNink$ 
```

sda1 contains my Ubuntu 9.04 install and until recently my main system. 

sda5 contained a blank space that i left for days like this.

sda6 is my /home partition

This allowed me to install 9.10 in sda5 about a half dozen times during the beta stages until I finally felt comfortable enough to commit to 9.10 (now).

Even if you don't have the space to set aside a second partition for fresh installs keeping your / in it's own partition let's you play with/screw up the system all you want because your data in the /home partition never gets touched.

---

### Post by barnaclebill18 on 2009-11-05
I don't know how to fix your problem, but I would recommend getting the Xmarks add-on for FireFox and you will never lose your bookmarks again.

---

