---
title: "13.04, virtualbox, win xp guest, can't see sata dvd drive"
date: 2013-12-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2013-12-12
I'm trying to find a way to get a USB capture device that doesn't work in Ubuntu to work in a XP virtual machine.  I've already done what I needed to for the time being, but I would like to get rid of my small xp install and just use a vm if possible.  the vm does find the device now, so I'm trying to load the software and driver friom DVD.

Under the drives button on the VM line it shows my drive, however inside the actual vm OS - in this case Win XP - no optical drive is showing.  I've tried passthough - no difference.  Since it treats the SATA  hard disk as IDE I tried removing the SATA dvd drive def and adding a drive under the IDE - a drive then shows, but it shows as a cd drive and never knows there is a disk in the physical drive, so I have to assume it's just a vm defined device that doesn't actually tie to physical drive.   So I went back to the SATA where the vm at least knows my physical device.

Any ideas on how to get the guest OS - XP - to have the drive showing so I can install the software?  I feel rather silly because I just used the drive in the VM a few days ago when setting up XP and installed SP3 from it.

I know this is not a true ubuntu question, but since ubuntu is the host OS and virtualbox is running within it, I hope it's okay to post this question here.

Thanks.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2013-12-13
Hi, this may sound like a stupid question, is this the free community version of Vbox or is it from Oracle? Did you install the guest additions?  The guest additions are only availabe in the Oracle version.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-12-13
Yep - it's from Oracle.  Have the guest additions and the extension pack to allow USB2 as well.

I would still like to know the answer, but at least for now I found it doesn't work very well trying to capture video in a VM.  I have a quad-core A8, and I've tried adjusting the number of processors (it seen the more the worse it gets), the video memory (same thing), total memory (same thing).  I just don't thinks get passed through from the host USB quick enough.  I was *hoping* it would be a direct link instead f virtualized hardware.  Sound is great - video, well, let's just say no good, at all, in anyway.  Same hardware and software in stand-alone XP works great, so it's obviously something with either the virtual machine or the vm's interface to the host.

Either way, can't use it.

However, since I still would like to get the dvd drive working, I'm keeping this open hoping for an answer.

To try out the video capture I copied the files from the disk to a shared folder in Ubuntu, then opened them in the vm.

---

