---
title: "13.10-  I am unable to login as Administrator (my username), just guest ."
date: 2013-11-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by edu4rd on 2013-11-05
I have the same problem sometimes(expecially the mouse) but i have a bigger one right now : 
I am unable to login as Administrator (my username), just guest .
JUST updated yesterday form 13.04 .

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-11-05
Post move to own thread. Please don't hijack threads. Yours is a completely different problem.

---

### Post by edu4rd on 2013-11-05
Thank you and sorry for posting in others thread .

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-11-05
> **edu4rd said:**
> Thank you and sorry for posting in others thread .

No worries. So does your password not work are there any errors reported.

---

### Post by edu4rd on 2013-11-05
My password works when I login as tty1 ,after the pc boot and gets to login screen it just showing me the purple desktop and if i click enter logs me in as guest .

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-11-05
edu4rd; Hi !

Let's see if "you" have authorization to access your home directory:
1. At the login screen, press Ctrl+Alt+F1 to get to the console.
2. Log in there.
3. Check if ".ICEauthority" is owned by you:
Post back the output of terminal commands:
```

ls -al .ICEauthority

```
4. And the same for the ".Xauthority" file.
5. What desk top are you using ? This output may also be relevant:
```

sudo ls -la /var/lib/lightdm/

```

[INDENT][INDENT]where there are solutions there are no problems
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by edu4rd on 2013-11-05
ls -al .ICEauthority 
ls : cannot access .ICEauthority : No such file or directory .
same for .Xauthority .

sudo ls -la /var/lib/lightdm/
output :
.cache
.config 
.dbus
.gconf
.local
.Xauthority

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-11-05
edu4rd; Well !

Makes me question where you are in the file system when you executed those commands. What results:
Please place output between code tags:
code tag tutorial:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168)

from terminal commands:
```

pwd
ls -la ~/.Xauthority

```look'n for the file explicitly.

[INDENT][INDENT]we will get to the bottom of this
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by edu4rd on 2013-11-05
I was in cd /root  .

right now in as guest in terminal  
```

ls -la ~/.Xauthority
-rw------- 1 guest-r0hMUL guest-r0hMUL 54 Nov  5 16:19 /tmp/guest-r0hMUL/.Xauthority

```

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-11-05
edu4rd; Welp. what we want to see is from the perspective of your "home". Not from root or guest.

Reboot, at the GUI login do ctl+alt+f1 to get to the terminal. At this point you are at your own home directory.
What now returns from terminal code:
```

ls -la ~/.Xauthority
ls -la ~/.ICEauthority

```

Those files must exist and you as your user_name, must have you as the owner, and you as the group. Else "you" have no access to your /home directory.

[INDENT][INDENT]we be look'n
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by edu4rd on 2013-11-06
Ok ,

Got it :
Here is a printscreen or actually a picture .
[http://imgur.com/k6mKj27](http://imgur.com/k6mKj27)

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-11-06
edu4rd; Morning.

That output is not what I had expected.
No .Xauthority file should not be a big deal, but as .ICEauthority also does not exist, now that does pose a problem !

Is your installation that of a server that you installed a GUI onto ?? Trying to see where you are coming from and why those files do not exist, and -   the biggy - what it is going to take to restore ~/.ICEauthority and ~/.Xauthority !

[INDENT][INDENT]got out work cut out for us
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-11-06
To restore missing iceauthority file. 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1906789](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1906789)

Obviously needs to be tailored to user.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-11-06
@ philinux; Thanks for that .. I was making it to be a much more taxing process (PAM) than what it really is !

[INDENT][INDENT]where there are solutions there are no problems !
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by edu4rd on 2013-11-07
Hi guys,

I did what philinux suggested and I realized by running pwck command that my user and home directory does not exist .
I dnno how it's possible because on tty I can login with my username and password .

If I add the user and set the home directory is there any chance to be ok ?

Thanks .

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-11-07
See if your home dir location is set correctly in the /etc/passwd file, e.g.

```

$ getent passwd steeldriver
steeldriver:x:1002:1002:,,,:**/home/steeldriver**:/bin/bash

```

EDIT: wait - you appear to be typing

```
ls -l ~/<SPACE>.Xauthority
```

- you need to do 

```
ls -l ~/.Xauthority
```

(no space between the ~/ and the .Xauthority)

---

### Post by edu4rd on 2013-11-08
Hi ,

I did what you ask me to and i got nothing : Cannot acces ...no such file or directory .

Thanks.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-11-08
If your user account has been deleted from the /etc/passwd database but there's a possibility that some of your files are still intact and recoverable, then it's probably a little bit safer to create a new user account rather than trying to recreate the old one. You can then either fix the old account from the new one or just copy any files over and run with the new one as your primary account.

---

