---
title: "Copy files between OS"
date: 2009-09-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Messyhair42 on 2009-09-26
I am trying to copy a file/folder from my Ubuntu (ext3)drive to a drive containing Windows 7 RTM (NTFS). I'm working from Ubuntu and navigate after copying the file media>disk>...>documents>>paste and i get an error message "error while copying" and under details it says operation not supported. i know i used to not have this problem. sudo cp doesn't seem to work either.

---

### Post by powel212 on 2009-09-26
Have you installed NTFS Configuration tool? its in the repos.

There are also certain hardware configuration limitations I have come across. How many physical drives do you have in your machine and are they SATA or ide?

Powel

---

### Post by Messyhair42 on 2009-09-26
ubuntu is on a 1 TB SATA drive and W7 is installed on a 160 GB SATA drive along with Fedora 10. hopefully NTFS config will work out b/c i had it when i was using Intrepid along with XP so i'll try that next

---

### Post by powel212 on 2009-09-26
I'm guessing NTFS config tool should do the trick.

If it were me though, I would plug the 160G into SATA port (zero) and the 1T into Sata port (one) on the motherboard and put all my Operating systems on the 160G boot drive. Then format the 1T as NTFS so all my data could be shared between all the Operating systems. That way the Grub, and windows boot loader are all located on the same drive and the BIOS and the OSs don't get confused about which drive is the boot drive.

If there are too many boot drives the system can get confused about which drive is which. But with just 2 drives this shouldn't really be a problem but it would depend on your Motherboard.

Sorry if I am rambling.

Powel

---

### Post by Messyhair42 on 2009-09-26
I'm gonna change things around when Lynx comes out (gonna skip Karmic b/c it's not LTS and i like my system as it is) so i'll keep something like that in mind. I'd like to get an SSD for my OS and the rest as storage. i'll find NTFSCT in the reposotory's right now

Edit: it's giving me trouble so i'm gonna attempts the manual way described here [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions/ThirdPartyNTFS3G]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions/ThirdPartyNTFS3G") shouldn't be too hard

---

### Post by V3RR3Z on 2009-09-26
hi

---

### Post by Messyhair42 on 2009-09-27
the walkthrough didn't get me where i wanted to be, still doesn't support copying to NTFS. windows 7 is on /dev/sda1 & /dev/sda2 but sda1 is just a boot partition and everything important is on sda2. after the walkthrough didn't work i reverted to the original /etc/fstab file so here is my current fstab file
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=a882d27e-54a7-4e81-ad3e-beeb093307c7 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb9 :
UUID=67ae2961-fdf8-493e-9d6b-46d731ae4065 /home ext3 relatime 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sdb8 :
UUID=2fc22fac-2905-4c08-92e1-2cc69f97a488 /tmp ext3 relatime 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sdb6 :
UUID=f6b030ba-c0f9-49fd-baf0-c892f014e0d2 /usr ext3 relatime 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sdb7 :
UUID=aa795d51-e889-4fad-9163-271a3f6551ad /var ext3 relatime 0 2
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=9c68088f-1f20-481a-a19f-0dd78d19c3cb none swap sw 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=49f4e977-0433-4c09-aa2a-3c08a8ae87e8 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/System\040Reserved ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/sda2 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
```

i also momentarily uninstalled ntfs-config because it was pointing me to %system reserved which is part of my Fedora installation (which is also ext3)
i shall try editing fstab again after i get some advice b/c neither of these methods have worked

---

### Post by dave WB3DWE on 2009-09-27
[SIZE=3][FONT=Lucida Sans Unicode]I copy between Windows XP and Ubuntu 9.04 using a flash memory stick. The recipient needs to be able to handle the file type. The word processors can usually convert.[/FONT][/SIZE]

---

### Post by erilidon on 2009-09-27
maybe you don't have the proper write permissions try doing it through
```
gksu nautilus
```

---

### Post by Messyhair42 on 2009-09-29
i can copy to the disk, but it wont let me write directly to anything deeper than /media/sda2/users/username/documents. i can paste something to /documents and then drag it in the subfolder it's just less convenient.

edit: i can copy files with the sudo cp command to any level, just not in nautilus, any idea why?

---

