---
title: "12.04 Dialup Problems US Robotics Modem Detection"
date: 2012-12-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gigi1234 on 2012-12-01
Hi Everyone,

I am trying to configure my 12.04 system (Thinkpad T530) to run a US Robotics modem USR5637. I am using GnomePPP to connect. When I gksudo gnome-ppp everything works great-the modem is detected and the connection succeeds. But when I launch GnomePPP without su permission, the modem is not detected.

What is going on?

I guess I could create a custom launcher with a gksudo command, but I would rather fix this problem. I tried adduser $user dip and adduser $user dialout and that didn't help. I have been reading the help pages for this issue but can't find anything else to try.

Please help! Thanks!

Greta

---

### Post by gigi1234 on 2012-12-01
When I restarted the computer, the problem was solved. Or...so it seems.

---

### Post by gigi1234 on 2012-12-01
Well, not quite solved I guess. This is so bizarre. I open gnomePPP and it will work. But when I disconnect and try to reconnect the modem is not recognized. Then when I go into setup and try to detect the modem, on the first try it fails but on the second try it succeeds.

I am setting this system up for my elderly mother so it needs to work reliably and without confusion.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by gigi1234 on 2012-12-06
Please...anyone. Do you have any ideas about how I can solve this problem?

---

### Post by levlaz on 2012-12-06
Not sure how much help I will be - but here goes nothing. :) 
 
1. When you added the user to the "dip" and "dialout" groups what message returned? Did it say something like already a member, or user added?

2. [This thread]("http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/ubuntu-63/u-s-robotics-modem-not-detected-by-gnome-ppp-in-ubuntu-12-04-lts-4175418245/") seemed to have a similar issues and the problem was apparently solved. 

3. Have you tried using any other resource/software other than gnomePPP?

---

### Post by gigi1234 on 2012-12-06
1. When I added the "dip" user I was told that member already existed. When I added the dialout member I was told that the member had been added.

2. Will check the suggested thread.

3. I suppose I could try wvdial for troubleshooting purposes, but I am configuring this machine for my elderly mother and I need Gnome-PPP to work. 

I guess I could creater a launcher that runs the gksudo command. But I would rather get to the bottom of the issue in case there is something going on that would create instability.

---

### Post by roger_1960 on 2012-12-07
Hi

I found the article below which solved my dial up problems - the part about user priviledge settings 

First install from synaptic gnome-system-tools , this includes the "users and groups" package (this used to be installed by default, but no longer)

Dial-up Internet Access With A USB Modem
One easy way to connect to the internet using a dial-up
account is to buy a USB modem which the manufacturer
describes as "Linux-compatible".
&#8218;- Install Gnome PPP (available in Synaptic Package Manager)
run "users & groups" using the dash to start it
&#8218;- Access Advanced Settings (enter password)
&#8218;- Open User Privileges Tab
Make sure everything (especially &#8218;-Connect to internet with a
modem&#8218; plus &#8218;Use modems&#8218;) is checked then plug in your
external (USB) Linux-compatible modem [in this example I'm
using a USRobotics USR Model 5637.]
A &#8218; Open Gnome PPP, click on Setup, click on Detect (Gnome
PPP will then detect the modem), after detection close the
setup box, and enter your connection information such as
login, password, local telephone number of ISP and so on.
When connection is established, open your browser and surf!

To end the session and exit, close the browser and click
Disconnect


Hope it helps

Roger

---

### Post by gigi1234 on 2012-12-07
Okay thanks! I will try these suggestions. I do think it is some sort of permissions thing that I don't understand. I am using the same US Robotics modem, which I bought because it was touted as working with Linux. 

The only thing I don't get is this users and groups thing. I am not using Unity and I don't see this under system tools. Where is it located? Can I run it from the command line perhaps?

---

### Post by gigi1234 on 2012-12-07
Wait, sorry. I get it. The users and groups tool used to be part of a normal installation but now one must install it by choice with the gnome system tools package. Got it!

---

### Post by Bartender on 2012-12-07
I was on [dial-up for years]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1377619") with Linux.  I never used anything but old USR Sportster modems.  If the PC didn't have a serial port I'd use a Sabrent serial-to-USB adapter cable.

If the PC had a serial port, the modem would be detected on tty/S0 or tty/S1, whereas when I used the Sabrent USB cable the device would be detected on tty/ACMO.

I never had any problems like you're describing, where I had to invoke sudo to dial.  Do you have another PC you can try?  Just to see if the same glitch comes up?  I'm wondering if maybe there's a permissions problem with accessing the *modem*, not the dialer software?

I have no idea if this would help or not, but you might want to try uninstalling everything you've done so far and try going thru my directions in the above link step by step.

I applaud what you're attempting to do, but dial-up on Linux is going to be hard.  What will your mom do when Ubuntu wants to download a 150MB update?

---

### Post by gigi1234 on 2012-12-07
Well it seems to be working now, but I did have to uninstall then reintall everything. 

My mom has used Ubuntu for years, but finally the machine she was using became so obsolete that it couldn't run any modern software, so I am switching her. It is a quandary, because I could have her run Windows 7. But I think that would be even more confusing for her. At least with Ubuntu all the updates are in the same format. And then there are the virus issues. Windows is just too confusing and you can't risk using it without updates, whereas I told her just to ignore the update messages in Ubuntu. Whenever I visit I can update it for her. Or...I am thinking about begging my nephew to learn how to do it for her. I live 2000 miles away, so it is kind of difficult. 

The other idea I had was to try to find some local person who could help her now and then. It would help if she would agree to get a fast connection but I don't see that happening because she is on a fixed budget. 

Thanks for all your advice!

---

### Post by Bartender on 2012-12-07
> **gigi1234 said:**
> It is a quandary, because I could have her run Windows 7. But I think that would be even more confusing for her. At least with Ubuntu all the updates are in the same format. And then there are the virus issues. 

Yeah, there's no perfect answer, is there?  If money grew on trees and you could get her set up with broadband, then stick with Ubuntu, that would be pretty close to perfect.

I used to think that Ubuntu and dial-up was worse than Windows and dial-up, but Windows updates have gotten out of hand.  A coupla years back, when we were on dial-up, I wanted to update an XP PC that only got used every once in while.  I was in the habit of keeping the updates to 10 or 15 MB at most by editing the list of stuff it wanted, but Windows was insisting on gulping down a 60MB .NET Framework update before it would let me install any more incremental updates.  Our connection wouldn't stick long enough for 60MB at 36 kbps, so that PC was offline for a year or more.

---

### Post by gigi1234 on 2012-12-07
Yeah, since she is used to Ubuntu I will stick with that. But it has been a little difficult since the current LTS version is so different than what she has been using. I want everything to look as much the same as possible. I don't know why Ubuntu instituted these radical changes. I guess they are trying to make Linux more like Mac. If I wanted a Mac I would get one. I want to run Linux on a PC. I know what you mean about Windows and the ridiculous updates. I dual-boot on my home laptop because sometimes I have to used Windows for work related stuff. I dread even booting into that side because it takes half an hour and several reboots before the system can even be used. And it runs slow as XMAS! 

I am going to try to convince my 14 year old nephew to help us. Maybe I'll win a new convert in the process! 

Yes, having a faster connection would be ideal. I've tried to interest in her in the idea of going to the local library to use their connection but she is very resistant to that idea. 

Thanks for letting me vent! And thanks for your help!

---

