---
title: "monitor/screen resolution problem"
date: 2009-02-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jfloydb on 2009-02-05
After routinely updating Ubuntu 8.10, something about the monitor/screen resolution changed. Now, about 6 pixels of the Bottom Panel is pushed off the bottom of the screen. That is: my monitor resolution seems to be 6 pixels too large for my screen. The monitor resolution is currently set at 1024 x 600 (16:9), with no other viable options under the Monitor Resolution Settings. Can someone please tell me how to fix this problem...

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2009-02-06
Hi jfloydb

Have you tried> sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorgin a terminal?

---

### Post by jfloydb on 2009-02-08
I need a step by step quide. That is: what do I need to do once in the terminal?

---

### Post by pbotros1234 on 2009-02-08
1) Open up a terminal

2) Type:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg 
```

3) You will be prompted for the root password, type that in

4) Follow the prompts

---

### Post by jfloydb on 2009-03-08
All I get is something that seems to be concerned with the keyboard...

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-03-08
Not sure what's going on here, but for instance I'm running in terminal:

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

So I get this output:

> lance@lance-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
        Option          "DontZap" "false"
EndSection 
lance@lance-desktop:~$ 


Then if I run:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

I get this output:

> lance@lance-desktop:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
[sudo] password for lance: 
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20090308142039


Can you post the full output of what you get in terminal when you run that command? Please use the "quote" tag at the top of the reply form.

Chances are you're using either an Nvidia driver or an ATI driver that just got updated and no longer works properly for you.

If you'd post the output of:

```
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log
```

We could see which driver X is using.

Not sure I know how to fix this though but that would be valuable info to someone that does know how.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-03-08
Regarding ATI I share the philosophy in this rant from Distrowatch:

> Since being bought by AMD in 2006, we were promised improved Linux drivers for ATI video cards. Recently AMD released a second batch of information on their hardware to the open source community, which helps to feed into the radeonhd driver, but their closed source proprietary driver still remains, well, closed. The driver has always been second rate, but now it has gotten to the point that Arch Linux developers have decided to dump it all together. Developer Eduardo Romero writes: "The ATI Catalyst drivers are in a pitiful state and AMD is doing close to nothing to improve the situation, they just take Linux as a joke. At least, that is the impression one gets when NVIDIA releases great drivers for Linux." He and Andreas Radke have decided to drop the driver out of the supported package trees and have pushed it back onto the community to maintain. They are instead going to concentrate on the free and open source radeonhd driver: "The radeonhd driver, which is in extra, shows some promise." After many years, the battle for open source graphics drivers is still ongoing. 

More here:

[http://www.archlinux.org/pipermail/arch-dev-public/2009-February/010394.html](http://www.archlinux.org/pipermail/arch-dev-public/2009-February/010394.html)

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-03-08
In hindsight the output of:

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

and:

```
xrandr
```

would be a very good start.

---

### Post by jfloydb on 2009-04-25
The answer is: upgrade to 9.04 for the acer Aspire One... Thanks everyone...

---

