---
title: ".css style theme editor?"
date: 2009-07-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by comp3820 on 2009-07-06
Hey, I was wondering if there was a program, or a single file, where you can go and edit the theme files. FOr instance, in certain types of websites you have the css file, which you can use to edit all the themed images, headers, buttons, etc. 
Essentially, what I want to do is to be able to make my own buttons in GIMP (or taskbars, or menus, etc) and put them in a folder with the right name, so that it changes the buttons in the OS.
Is this possible, or is it much more complicated then I think?

---

### Post by Temposs on 2009-07-06
The icons for buttons you can do. Most icons are kept in /usr/share/icons, so if you just open the folders in there, you should see the images that make up what appears on the desktop in various places. If you just replace those files with your own(you have to use the same filenames, and backup the old ones), then it should change the icons.

For other stuff like how the menus look, go into /usr/share/themes and look at the gtkrc files and any files with a .xml extension. The changes you can make there should be pretty straightforward. Most of that stuff is what you can change in System->Preferences->Appearance, too.

---

### Post by Temposs on 2009-07-06
But, don't go around changing files in /usr/share, but instead create new copies of the folders you want to customize and put them in ~/.icons for the icon themes you want to customize, and ~/.themes for the themes you want to customize.

---

### Post by comp3820 on 2009-07-06
Thanks, I'll look into that:p

---

