---
title: "Verizon vzaccess manager in WINE"
date: 2008-12-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by The ragman on 2008-12-14
I have Verizon for my internet connection, and have an antiquated pcmcia card modem that I have to use in a linksys router with pcmcia port - this makes it inconvenient for travel, as I need a power source for the router. A friend has a USB modem that would work on this setup - or so I thought. I installed the vzaccess software onto WINE, and all seemed ok, until the install wizard failed to detect the USB modem. 

How can I get a windows program in wine, to recognize a modem in a USB port on my linux system?

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2008-12-14
hi The ragman, :p

have you tried out if perhaps linux can handle the usb wlan on its own?

---

### Post by The ragman on 2008-12-14
Thank you for the reply.

I tried the usb wlan prior to installing the manager, and could the computer did not find it.

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2008-12-14
What is the exact type of the usb modem? Perhaps you need some additional drivers to activate it.

---

### Post by The ragman on 2008-12-14
I searched for drivers online, for linux and windows, and could find none. The device is Verizon specific with no badges.

---

### Post by lswb on 2008-12-14
Is this a device that connects to the internet over Verizons cellular phone network? It's true that linux often has to play catch-up with drivers for the newer devices, but there are many usb and pcmcia devices that do work, some with drivers available for years. I'm connected right now with a cell phone tethered through a USB cable. 

If you are talking about a dial-up modem that uses regular telephone lines, well, some work out of the box with linux, some work with more or less system configuration, and some, not at all.

Post back with more details about the nature of the connection and maybe someone can help.

---

### Post by The ragman on 2008-12-14
It is device that connects to verizon's wireless network, using cell phone technology. It has a phone number for identity, and is billed as a data connection. 

The pcmcia card I currently use in a router is also thinks it is a cell phone.

---

### Post by The ragman on 2008-12-14
The device is a:

Pantech USB modem - for Verizon Cellular.

---

### Post by lswb on 2008-12-14
Well, the 1st thing to do is a google search with your device name or model and the words "verizon usb linux cdma" or some variation of that theme, and see if someone else has already done it.

The cell phones and usb adapters I am familiar with that access verizon cellular and other CMDA cellular networks are acessed as a /dev/ttyACM0 serial device. They are _not_ recognized as a network interface like eth0 or wlan0.

Many or most of these devices are recognized automatically and have the correct device created and assigned when they are plugged in. If that's the case, it's then a matter of setting up the network connection using PPP. 

Try this, at a command prompt issue the command "ls /dev >before"
Plug the device in, wait a moment, then type "ls /dev >after" followed by the command "diff before after"

The output of the diff command will show if any new devices were created as a result of plugging in the adapter. Disregard any that look like " /dev/usbdev2.1_ep00 " You are looking for something like /dev/ttyACM0 or /dev/ttyUSB0, something with tty in the name. If you don't see a new tty device, don't give up, some of the newer usb devices can still be made to work with some newer software and drivers that are available.

If you see the tty device then try using the pppconfig program (or gnomeppp or kppp) to configure your connection. Run "sudo pppconfig" in a terminal and it will prompt you for the information it needs. When it asks for the access number use "#777" and for username, [email]1234567890@vzw3g.com[/email]" where 1234567890 is replaced by your cell phone number. Then you connect by typing "pon connection-name" and disconnect by typing "poff" If you use gnome-ppp or kppp there will be some kind of gui or icon to start/stop the connection.

Here is the /etc/ppp/peer file that works for me:

```

hide-password 
noauth
connect "/usr/sbin/chat -v -f /etc/chatscripts/vzw"
debug
/dev/ttyACM0
230400
defaultroute
# Verizon evdo apparently doesn't respond to lcp echo-requests, 
# causing disconnect depending on lcp-echo-failure as set in
# /etc/ppp/options. Using value of 0 disables lcp echo-requests 
# OTOH the link activity of sending the request does help to keep
# the link active.
lcp-echo-interval 60
lcp-echo-failure 0
# Disconnect and hang up if no activity for 15 minutes. lcp packets are not
# counted when determining if link is idle.
idle 900
user "1234567890@vzw3g.com"
remotename vzw
ipparam vzw
usepeerdns

```

and the corresponding /etc/chatscript file :

```

# This chatfile was generated by pppconfig 2.3.17.
# Please do not delete any of the comments.  Pppconfig needs them.
# 
# ispauth PAP
# abortstring
ABORT BUSY ABORT 'NO CARRIER' ABORT VOICE ABORT 'NO DIALTONE' ABORT 'NO DIAL TONE' ABORT 'NO ANSWER' ABORT DELAYED
# modeminit
'' ATZ
# ispnumber
OK-AT-OK "ATDT#777"
# ispconnect
CONNECT \d\c
# prelogin

# ispname
# isppassword
# postlogin

# end of pppconfig stuff

```

the pppconfig program generates these files for you, but you may have to modify them some, see the comments. Your cell phone number goes where I have "1234567890"
Good luck.

---

### Post by Michaelg14 on 2008-12-14
What is the model of your modem and what Ubuntu are you using?

I have a Verizon USB727 that I have used with 8.04 with some work on my part.  Since I updated to 8.10 it is all done automatically for me.

---

### Post by The ragman on 2008-12-14
Thank you for the information - it is going to take a while to get my old brain seeing sense in it, and as soon as it does, I will reply here. It may take a day or more to make any sense - I used, twenty years ago, to be a compitent computer geek, but I never developed along with computers.

---

### Post by The ragman on 2008-12-14
The only detail I have of the modem is Pantech USB modem no model number is displayed on my friend's computer or on the device itself. 

When I did the ls /dv, the result was:

```
333a334
> sde
347a349
> sg8
434a437
> ttyACM0
715a719,726
> usbdev7.24_ep00
> usbdev7.24_ep02
> usbdev7.24_ep03
> usbdev7.24_ep07
> usbdev7.24_ep81
> usbdev7.24_ep85
> usbdev7.24_ep86
> usbdev7.24_ep89

```

being almost computer illiterate I have no clue what this is telling me.

---

### Post by Michaelg14 on 2008-12-14
To be honest I don't either.  Try running

```
sudo wvdial
```

Then look in etc/wvdial.conf with

```
gedit /etc/wvdial.conf
```

it should look something like

> [Dialer Defaults]
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
Modem Type = Analog Modem
ISDN = 0
New PPPD = yes
Phone = #777
Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0
Username = [email]1234567890@vzw3g.com[/email]
Password = vzw
Baud = 460800

If it does then in a terminal type "wvdial" and see if it connects.

If not then copy and paste the above info into wvdial.conf with

```
gksu gedit /etc/wvdial.conf
```

changing 1234567890 to whatever the phone number of the device is and try it again.

Good luck

---

### Post by Michaelg14 on 2008-12-14
A couple other things you might have to do.

in a terminal type

```
sudo cat /proc/tty/driver/usbserial
```

That should tell you what USB port you are on for the Modem= line in wvdial.conf. and also the vendor and product code for the next item.

Also open /etc/modules and add this line to the bottom of the file using the vendor and product code from the last step

```
usbserial vendor=0x???? product=0x????
```

---

### Post by The ragman on 2008-12-14
I will try that, just as soon as the update manager lets me have control again.

---

### Post by lswb on 2008-12-14
> **The ragman said:**
> The only detail I have of the modem is Pantech USB modem no model number is displayed on my friend's computer or on the device itself. 

When I did the ls /dv, the result was:

```
333a334
> sde
347a349
> sg8
434a437
> ttyACM0     <<<---There it is>
715a719,726
> usbdev7.24_ep00
> usbdev7.24_ep02

```

being almost computer illiterate I have no clue what this is telling me.

ttyACM0 is your modem device. Use either the textmode program pppconfig or gnome-ppp or kppp. I believe pppconfig is included in a default install of ubuntu. I am not familiar with using gnome-ppp or other gui programs for this so I will describe using pppconfig. I'm going mostly on memory; You can search the forums or google, there are much better written instructions available than what I am posting here.

Open a terminal and type "sudo pppconfig" On the first screen select Create and just proceed through, supplying the information it asks for. (Leave out the quotes I use here) For purpose of this example, I will use "vzw" as the connection name. When it gets to the device or modem selection question, use "/dev/ttyACM0". Select dynamic DNS, "chat" for authentication method, For your providers number, verizon uses "#777" Your username will be "1234567890@vzw3g.com", substituting your cell phone # for 1234567890. If it asks for a password use "vzw" Don't worry about getting it all correct the 1st time. Save the file and exit from pppconfig.

Now open another terminal and issue this command "tail -f /var/log/syslog" This terminal window will show any info and error messages generated during the connection process which may help to debug. In a different terminal, type "pon vzw" If you're lucky you'll connect in a moment or so and stay connected. If not, navigate to /etc/ppp/peers, and as root open the file named "vzw" change the relevant parts to match the example I posted earlier. Save the file and try "pon vzw" again.

If the connection doesn't happen, copy the errors from the tail -f window and paste them into a post here, or try googling for a better howto first. Good Luck!

---

### Post by Don1500 on 2009-04-01
Link to VZAccess manager

---

