---
title: "Mouse Wheel Broken in Intrepid"
date: 2008-11-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by BassKozz on 2008-11-04
I just upgraded from Hardy (8.04) to Intrepid (8.10) and I my mouse wheel on my Logitech Mx500 is now broken. When I scroll up on my mouse wheel it sends the BACK command to Firefox and sends me back to the previous page I was browsing instead of just scrolling up...

I had a similar problem w/ Gusty (7.10): [[SOLVED] Scroll Wheel not working properly in Firefox]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=618439")
But this issue was found to be a problem with my KVM, when I was not on the correct input setting while booting (i.e. on another computer) I would experience these issues, but so long as I booted up on the correct device I wouldn't have this problem. Well now even when I boot while on the correct box I experience this problem.

When I run **xev** and I scroll up 1 notch I get the following:
```
ButtonPress event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x4000001,
    root 0x13b, subw 0x0, time 2486172, (114,92), root:(1536,143),
    state 0x10, button 4, same_screen YES

ButtonRelease event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x4000001,
    root 0x13b, subw 0x0, time 2486172, (114,92), root:(1536,143),
    state 0x810, button 4, same_screen YES

ButtonPress event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x4000001,
    root 0x13b, subw 0x0, time 2486172, (114,92), root:(1536,143),
    state 0x10, button 8, same_screen YES

ButtonPress event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x4000001,
    root 0x13b, subw 0x0, time 2486172, (114,92), root:(1536,143),
    state 0x10, button 9, same_screen YES
```
and when I scroll down 1 notch I get:
```
ButtonPress event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x4000001,
    root 0x13b, subw 0x0, time 2496979, (114,92), root:(1536,143),
    state 0x10, button 5, same_screen YES

ButtonRelease event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x4000001,
    root 0x13b, subw 0x0, time 2496979, (114,92), root:(1536,143),
    state 0x1010, button 5, same_screen YES

ButtonRelease event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x4000001,
    root 0x13b, subw 0x0, time 2496979, (114,92), root:(1536,143),
    state 0x10, button 8, same_screen YES

ButtonRelease event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x4000001,
    root 0x13b, subw 0x0, time 2496979, (114,92), root:(1536,143),
    state 0x10, button 9, same_screen YES
```

It is my understanding (from looking at xorg.conf) that **xorg.conf** is no longer handling the input devices:
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@yellow)  Thu Jun  5 09:27:12 UTC 2008
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#
#    # generated from default
#    Identifier     "Mouse0"
#    Driver         "mouse"
#    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
#    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
#    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
#    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
#EndSection
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#
#    # generated from default
#    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
#    Driver         "kbd"
#EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

```
I removed the rest of xorg.conf as it is not pertinent to this topic.

So what is HAL, and how can I adjust it's settings?

**_EDIT_**
I tested it without the KVM connected and the mouse wheel works fine, it's only when the KVM is connected do I experience this issue.  
**xev** up 1 notch:```
ButtonPress event, serial 31, synthetic NO, window 0x4400001,
    root 0x13b, subw 0x0, time 276797, (54,99), root:(728,150),
    state 0x10, button 4, same_screen YES

ButtonRelease event, serial 31, synthetic NO, window 0x4400001,
    root 0x13b, subw 0x0, time 276797, (54,99), root:(728,150),
    state 0x810, button 4, same_screen YES
```
**xev** down 1 notch:```
ButtonPress event, serial 31, synthetic NO, window 0x4400001,
    root 0x13b, subw 0x0, time 278920, (54,99), root:(728,150),
    state 0x10, button 5, same_screen YES

ButtonRelease event, serial 31, synthetic NO, window 0x4400001,
    root 0x13b, subw 0x0, time 278920, (54,99), root:(728,150),
    state 0x1010, button 5, same_screen YES
```
Notice that it's no longer passing the 8 & 9 buttons...
So I've narrowed it down to the KVM being the problem, but I would like to still use it, is there something I can change in xorg.conf or HAL (what ever that is) to fix this?

[[IMG]http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/120/image/1/[/IMG]](http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/120/)

---

### Post by BassKozz on 2008-11-04
**_Update:**_
After reading thru the wiki page: [X/Config/Input]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Input")
I learned how to find what input devices HAL is seeing (**xinput list**):```
xinput list
"Virtual core keyboard"	id=0	[XKeyboard]
	Num_keys is 248
	Min_keycode is 8
	Max_keycode is 255
"Virtual core pointer"	id=1	[XPointer]
	Num_buttons is 32
	Num_axes is 2
	Mode is Relative
	Motion_buffer is 256
	Axis 0 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 0
	Axis 1 :
		Min_value is 0
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 0
"Macintosh mouse button emulation"	id=2	[XExtensionPointer]
	Num_buttons is 32
	Num_axes is 2
	Mode is Relative
	Motion_buffer is 256
	Axis 0 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
	Axis 1 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
"PS2++ Logitech MX Mouse"	id=3	[XExtensionPointer]
	Num_buttons is 32
	Num_axes is 2
	Mode is Relative
	Motion_buffer is 256
	Axis 0 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
	Axis 1 :
		Min_value is -1
		Max_value is -1
		Resolution is 1
"AT Translated Set 2 keyboard"	id=4	[XExtensionKeyboard]
	Num_keys is 248
	Min_keycode is 8
	Max_keycode is 255
```
Couple of questions... Why is "**Macintosh mouse button emulation**" enabled, I am not using a Mac :confused:
Also check out the number of buttons HAL thinks my Logitech Mx500 has... **32** :shock: :o :shock:
At most I count 10: [[IMG]http://i4.photobucket.com/albums/y105/basskozz/Ubuntu/th_416FKG7YD9L_SS400_.jpg[/IMG]](http://i4.photobucket.com/albums/y105/basskozz/Ubuntu/416FKG7YD9L_SS400_.jpg)[[IMG]http://i4.photobucket.com/albums/y105/basskozz/Ubuntu/th_415X5109JZL_SS400_.jpg[/IMG]](http://i4.photobucket.com/albums/y105/basskozz/Ubuntu/415X5109JZL_SS400_.jpg) *<--- Click to see larger*
[LIST=1]
[*]Left Mouse Button
[*]Right Mouse Button
[*]Middle Mouse Button (click scroll wheel)
[*]Scroll up
[*]Scroll down
[*]Forward (on the right side of the mouse)
[*]Back (also on the right)
[*]Fast Scroll Up (above the scroll wheel)
[*]Fast Scroll Down (below the scroll wheel)
[*]Window Switcher (I think that's what it's called, the one below the fast scroll down button)
[/LIST]

So why is HAL listing 32 buttons?
How can I correct this?
Please HELP [-o<

[[IMG]http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/120/image/1/[/IMG]](http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/120/)

---

### Post by NT4usB on 2008-11-05
Logitechs don't work with KVMs (unless they've changed recently.)If you want the full functions, all the time, have to lose the KVM. I have Mx310s and Mx500s, and KVM. Ended up running a mouse on each box along with the KVM for keyboard and video.
I'll look at this thread more tonight, see if I have any ideas on the Firefox thing...

---

### Post by Der_Norge on 2008-11-08
Hi there! 

I had the same problem with my MX500 and Ubuntu 8.10. I really like my Mx500 and I think its a quite common mouse, so why is it so difficult to provide a kind of key mapping for this device by default? Every time I upgrade my ubuntu I have to deal with the same stupid mouse wheel/button stuff! Is this really necessary? Even my crappy cheap two button+wheel mouse at work is fully recognized by default!?

But now to some more productive stuff:
I got my mouse wheel working after I read the Wikipage you linked to. You have to add a FDI file in the ```
/etc/hal/fdi/policy/
``` folder which contains the information previously written into the xorg.conf. I just created a file called ```
mx500.fdi
``` which contains the following:
```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-15"?>
<deviceinfo version="0.2">
	<device>
		<match key="info.capabilities" contains="input.mouse">
			<merge key="input.x11_driver" type="string">mouse</merge>
			<merge key="input.x11_options.Protocol" type="string">ExplorerPS/2</merge>
			<merge key="input.x11_options.Buttons" type="string">9</merge>
			<merge key="input.x11_ZAxisMapping" type="string">6 7</merge>
		</match>
	</device>
</deviceinfo>	
```

Thats all. Now just replug your mouse and you are done. As far as I understood the name of the file is not important. HAL will use the code in the file anyway. BTW, the entry <[...] options.Protocoll> [...] is not necessary, the mouse wheel works without it. I just tried a bit around. 

So whats left to do? The forward/backward buttons are still not working, but I remember I configured them for 8.04 with some other program, which I dont remember at the moment... :D 

Hope this helps you! 

der norge

---

### Post by DancingSun on 2008-11-09
My MX510's thumb buttons stopped working after the upgrade to Intrepid. But after tinkering around with all the suggestions on how to configure HAL, I finally got it down!

There is no configuration needed at all!

That's right! None!

The reason why my MX510's thumb buttons stopped working was because I had a lingering xmodmap file that I used to configure my mouse for Hardy.  Once I removed it, my mouse is working properly even after a reboot.

Now I have no mouse related configuration in my Intrepid. No xorg.conf, no .fdi, and no xmodmap.  In effect, Intrepid should just work out-of-the-box for those of us with a many-button USB mouse.

If you are having trouble with your mouse, first try re-plugging your USB mouse and see if that fixes your problems.  Doing this made my MX510's thumb buttons work again. The reason why this works is because when you re-connect your USB mouse HAL will automatically re-detect the mouse and apply appropriate settings (assuming you don't have any bad fdi files around that will mess up the configuration). This also suggests that you might have some old configuration files lying around that was running upon login, which is why your mouse was not functioning correctly in the beginning.  In my case, it was due to an old xmodmap file that remapped my mouse buttons to make the thumb buttons work with firefox on Hardy.  Apparently, in Intrepid, the mouse buttons were automatically configured correctly, so the old xmodmap file messed up the buttons. Once that was removed, my MX510 worked flawlessly.

I hope this provided more insight into HAL and how it works.

---

### Post by Der_Norge on 2008-11-23
Hello! 

Your method worked! Just replugging the mouse has solved the problems...sort of. It is annoying to replug the mouse after every single login in order to make the wheel and the buttons work. 

And today it stopped working. Neither the wheel of my MX500  nor my cheap USB notebook mouse is working anymore. The crazy thing is, for volumecontrol in VLC the wheels ARE working! Also for any slider in any system-setting windows. But not for browsing firefox/nautilus/whateverelse. There is no difference with or without the *.fdi file in the specified folder. I have to admit, I'm really getting confused abut this.

---

### Post by DancingSun on 2008-11-23
> **Der_Norge said:**
> Hello! 

Your method worked! Just replugging the mouse has solved the problems...sort of. It is annoying to replug the mouse after every single login in order to make the wheel and the buttons work. 

And today it stopped working. Neither the wheel of my MX500  nor my cheap USB notebook mouse is working anymore. The crazy thing is, for volumecontrol in VLC the wheels ARE working! Also for any slider in any system-setting windows. But not for browsing firefox/nautilus/whateverelse. There is no difference with or without the *.fdi file in the specified folder. I have to admit, I'm really getting confused abut this.

Make sure you don't have any mouse-related configuration files lingering around.  Make sure the xorg.conf file is clean and free of any mouse configurations.  If, in the past, you had any remapping of the your mouse buttons done, make sure you undo them.

My MX510 is working reliably without any problems.  I literally have no mouse-related configuration files on my computer now.  Not even the button mappings that maps the back and forward buttons to Nautilus (so yes, my back and forward buttons don't work in Nautilus, since Nautilus does not support the back and forward mouse button events).

In xev, the detectable mouse button events for my MX510 are: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.

Buttons 4 and 5 represent the vertical scroll wheel.

Buttons 6 and 7 are not available because they represent the tilt wheel.  So, by default, programs are suppose to scroll horizontally when 6 and 7 are pressed.  MX510 does not have a tilt wheel, thus, buttons 6 and 7 are not reported.

Buttons 8 and 9 represent the back and forward thumb buttons.  And all programs that support back and forward movement from a mouse should recognize these buttons.  For example, Firefox will automatically recognize these buttons.

Button 10 is the application switch button.  By default, this button does not do anything.  However, it could be binded to some action if desired.  I have binded this button to the compiz expo plugin, which shows my workspaces or virtual deskops.

Buttons events 11 and 12 are generated from the scroll buttons above and below the wheel.  These button events are generated along with the normal scroll events.  For example, if you press the scroll up button, it will generate button events 4 and then 11; if you press the scroll down button it will generate button events 5 and then 12.  My guess is that originally Logitech used these extra button events to allow adjustments to the scrolling, so that it could scroll faster or slower.  But these are not used in Linux by default.

Make sure your mouse is generating these button events correctly.

---

### Post by Der_Norge on 2008-11-28
> **DancingSun said:**
> Make sure you don't have any mouse-related configuration files lingering around.  Make sure the xorg.conf file is clean and free of any mouse configurations.  If, in the past, you had any remapping of the your mouse buttons done, make sure you undo them.

[...]

In xev, the detectable mouse button events for my MX510 are: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.

Buttons 4 and 5 represent the vertical scroll wheel.

Buttons 6 and 7 are not available because they represent the tilt wheel.  So, by default, programs are suppose to scroll horizontally when 6 and 7 are pressed.  MX510 does not have a tilt wheel, thus, buttons 6 and 7 are not reported.
[...]
Make sure your mouse is generating these button events correctly.

Ahh! This brings some inside views of the things! Thank You! 
First: I think I got it now! I had a xmodmap-file flying around I didn't noticed before. so I renamed that file, and additionally removed imwheel. Now it works, and xev gives me button 4+5 for the mouse wheel... 

Now a bit of the story: After reading your post I found out that my mousewheel was scrolling horizontally! I just not noticed that before! Damn 22" screens! ;) xev told me the wheel has the numbers 6+7! From that point on I searched for every mouse-related config file I created in the last three years (which needed some serious google-ing for MX500-related sollutions for Ubuntu 5.10 up to  8.04 ;) ) and found the ```
~/.xmodmap
``` file. I totally had forgotten I ever used that file! :D Probably that's the backside of the upgrade-capability of Ubuntu... :rolleyes:

So, everything is running fine now, thanks a lot! Again I gained some knowledge into all the things I like to work with!

---

### Post by t.rei on 2009-04-04
Ok, thanks to you I have the absolute same situation I got with a fully configured input device in xorg.conf without anything in there.

BUT: 
No more than 5 buttons show up in 'xev' when clicked.
xinput list shows the logitech usb receiver as present and capable of up to 32 buttons.

any hint for a sad panda?

---

