---
title: "./configure --prefix..... configure: error: invalid variable name: ` --prefix"
date: 2014-01-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jarrod_Walker on 2014-01-19
Hi all,
this is my first post here and i am very new to Ubuntu

I am running a Winxp machine and have built Ubuntu 12.04.02 using Virtualbox.

i am trying to build mb-system (which i have done!) Since i have done what i wanted to do my problem is more of an interest but am worried about wanted to push it further and will probably run into this problem again.

My problem is when i run ./configure and specify some options using prefix i get this error:
configure: error: invalid variable name: ` --prefix' 

this is the code i am running

jarrod@jarrod-VirtualBox:~/Downloads/mbsystem-5.4.2159$ sudo ./configure \ --prefix=/usr/local/mbsystem \ --with-gmt-include=/usr/include/gmt \ --with-gmt-lib=/usr/lib/gmt/share \
>  
configure: error: invalid variable name: ` --prefix'


When i remove --prefix=/usr/local/mbsystem \

jarrod@jarrod-VirtualBox:~/Downloads/mbsystem-5.4.2159$ ./configure \  --with-gmt-include=/usr/include/gmt \ --with-gmt-lib=/usr/lib/gmt/share  
configure: WARNING: you should use --build, --host, --target
configure: WARNING: invalid host type:  
configure: error: invalid variable name: ` --with-gmt-lib'

I have run
sudo apt-get install build-essentials

Any suggestions?

Thank you in advance

Jarrod

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2014-01-19
Hello and welcome to the forums

Try it without the extra backslash characters  i.e. just

```
./configure --prefix=/usr/local/mbsystem --with-gmt-include=/usr/include/gmt --with-gmt-lib=/usr/lib/gmt/share
```

Also, it's not necessary to use 'sudo' for running ./configure scripts in your own home directory - and it sometimes complicates the subsequent build /install operation (because config files get owned by the root user).

---

### Post by chili555 on 2014-01-19
Please try:```
./configure --prefix=/usr/local/mbsystem --with-gmt-include=/usr/include/gmt --with-gmt-lib=/usr/lib/gmt/share
```I doubt you need sudo to merely configure. Note and correct any errors, try configure again until it succeeds and then I suspect you do:```
make
sudo make install
```DISCLAIMER: I know nothing whatever about your package but I have configured, made and installed a few zillion times in my long life.

EDIT: That steeldriver has quick hands! Sorry.

---

### Post by Jarrod_Walker on 2014-01-19
Thanks for the quick reply!
I tried as you both suggested and its working now.
I was hoping it was a simlpe Noob mistake!

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2014-01-19
It's a bit hard to explain, but the backslashes can be used as *line continuation* characters, allowing you to write the options on separate lines, like

```

./configure \
--prefix=/usr/local \
--with-gmt-include=/usr/include/gmt

```

but if you **don't** split across multiple lines then they get interpreted as *escape *characters and the shell thinks you want to write an argument name starting with a literal space (like ' --prefix') instead of a space followed by '--prefix'

---

### Post by Jarrod_Walker on 2014-01-19
Thanks for the extra info!

So for neater code you can use backslashes to "move" down into the next line to continue writing.

so can you move "down" to the next line while writing directly in the terminal by using a backslash and then hitting the "enter" key?

---

