---
title: "10.10 or Mint?"
date: 2013-01-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by urwhtiwnt on 2013-01-04
hello, this is my 1st time in this forum.  i just have a question.  is it easy to move from ubuntu to linux mint?   i like ubuntu 10.10 and i have KDE, LXCE XCFE, kubuntu openbox, and someother weird stuff but i can no longer get updates since it is no longer supported by the ubuntu community.    OR is anyone willing to help me protect it from viruses and all that cuz i believe it is not accepting clamtk or the clamav  or else.  we can even use team viewer.  im sorry, im still trying to learn LINUX

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-01-04
Post moved to its own thread.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-01-04
> **urwhtiwnt said:**
> hello, this is my 1st time in this forum.  i just have a question.  is it easy to move from ubuntu to linux mint?   i like ubuntu 10.10 and i have KDE, LXCE XCFE, kubuntu openbox, and someother weird stuff but i can no longer get updates since it is no longer supported by the ubuntu community.    OR is anyone willing to help me protect it from viruses and all that cuz i believe it is not accepting clamtk or the clamav  or else.  we can even use team viewer.  im sorry, im still trying to learn LINUX

Welcome to the Ubuntu Forums :-)

Edit: Ask the moderators to help with a good descriptive title! This will increase the chance that people with the right experience will read your thread and help you. 

You need to upgrade to a new version, and it would be via several steps, or install a fresh new version of Ubuntu including the other desktop environments.

I recommend to ***install a new version***. One way is to keep the /home directory, copy it to a separate partition and mount that partition as /home.

But be warned from the previous thread and ***backup*** your personal data or your /home directory or your whole drive before starting to upgrade the system!

---

### Post by coldcritter64 on 2013-01-04
10.10 has gone "End of life", that is it no longer receives secutity updates etc. If you don't like newer Ubuntus then Mint is a good option. No way to migrate an existing install. You need to download a Mint installer, burn a disc or to a USB stick and do a complete fresh install.

I would fully recommend you keep systems up to date, there are far more concerns security wise than viruses. I recommend your suggestion of installing Mint, in your situation.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2013-01-04
10.10 is dead. You will need to upgrade or best of all, do a fresh install of a newer version. You can always try a few of the OS using a USB stick or CD/DVD.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-01-04
The question about Mint or Ubuntu makes me ask about your computer specs, at least
-cpu
-ram
-graphics card
and how you intend to use it.

Then we will be able to give you relevant advice what distro (Mint or Ubuntu) and flavour
Lubuntu, Xubuntu, Ubuntu, Kubuntu (increasing weight and eye-candy)

and the corresponding for Linux Mint (XFCE, Mate, Cinnamon, KDE but also Debian along a separate track)

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-01-04
Another hearty welcome to the community. Recommendations in reverse order to what you asked:

1. Linux doesn't need antivirus. Antivirus does nothing but bog down your system to no purpose. Therefore, don't install it. For more details, see [here]("https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/security").

2. However, Linux *does* need to be updated. In fact, keeping it updated is the reason you don't need antivirus. Therefore, don't run obsolete versions.

3. To determine what flavour of *buntu you should run, we need much more info. Please give us general description of your machine. Even better is opening a terminal (using your current *buntu OS is fine) and posting back the output of this command:

```
sudo lshw -sanitize > ~/Desktop/lshw.txt
```You will be prompted for a password before the command will run. This will produce a file on your desktop named lshw.txt. Attach this file (using the paperclip icon in the reply box toolbar) with your reply to this thread.

---

### Post by aspergerian on 2013-01-04
urwhtiwnt,

You might consider Xubuntu. Ubuntu 10.04 was my favorite, and I finally achieved a Xubuntu desktop similar to what I had with 10.04. That thread [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2098800")

---

### Post by coldcritter64 on 2013-01-04
> **aspergerian said:**
> urwhtiwnt,

You might consider Xubuntu. ...
+1, a very worthwhile alternative imo OP.

I have used it as full Xubuntu alone, or the Ubuntu minimal or Debian Net Installers plus XFCE and gnome classic desktops.

For ease of installation OP, go with the full Xubuntu installer/live-cd if you wish to test it :)

---

### Post by Zill on 2013-01-05
> **urwhtiwnt said:**
> ...i like ubuntu 10.10 and i have KDE, LXCE XCFE, kubuntu openbox, and someother weird stuff...
While it may seem tempting to install every Desktop Environment (DE) or Window Manger (WM) under the sun into your installed system, I suggest you do *not* do this with your new installation.
Every DE and WM pulls in its own packages and dependencies resulting in a hugely bloated system.

It also leads to confusion with menu systems when systems are mixed in this way.

Just decide which DE/WM you prefer and then stick to that one.  If you do want to install other DEs or WMs then create new installations on different partitions to avoid interaction.  Alternatively, you could run them in Virtual Machines (VMs).

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-01-05
Mint with Mate may be the most 10.10 like , but XFCE looks and runs really nice with minimal effort.

---

