---
title: "10.o4 splash fix"
date: 2010-05-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by D3jan on 2010-05-17
i' use this guide for repair boot splash but not much sucess , does anyone have another idea ,
"How to Fix the Big and Ugly Plymouth Logo in Ubuntu 10.04

Problem

The logo looks fine when you install Ubuntu, but, after you install the proprietary Nvidia and ATI video drivers, the logo gets bigger and ugly! Below, we provide two fixes for this issue: the first one will fix the resolution of the Ubuntu logo, pretty much like it was when you installed Ubuntu; and the second one will remove the logo, showing only a dark screen until the login manager appears.

Wrokaround

Step 1: Hit the ALT+F2 key combination, paste the following command and check the “Run in terminal” option:

sudo apt-get install v86d

Step 2: Hit the ALT+F2 key combination, paste the following command and check the “Run in terminal” option:

gksu gedit /etc/default/grub

…enter your password when asked and hit the Enter key.

- Replace the following line (line number 9):

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=”quiet splash”

with this one:

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=”quiet splash nomodeset video=uvesafb:mode_option=1280×1024-24,mtrr=3,scroll=ywrap”

- Replace the following line (line number 18):

#GRUB_GFXMODE=640×480

with this one:

GRUB_GFXMODE=1280×1024

Step 3: Hit the ALT+F2 key combination, paste the following command and check the “Run in terminal” option:

gksu gedit /etc/initramfs-tools/modules

When the text window appears, add the following line at the end of the file:

uvesafb mode_option=1280×1024-24 mtrr=3 scroll=ywrap

Step 4: Hit the ALT+F2 key combination, paste the following command and check the “Run in terminal” option:

echo FRAMEBUFFER=y | sudo tee /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/splash

Step 5: Hit the ALT+F2 key combination, paste the following command and check the “Run in terminal” option:

sudo update-grub2

Step 6: Hit the ALT+F2 key combination, paste the following command and check the “Run in terminal” option:

sudo update-initramfs -u

Step 7: Reboot your computer. When the system starts, you should see a better looking Ubuntu logo!

The commands will only work for Grub2, not legacy.If you are using legacy bootloader use the following instructions to install grub2 and follow the above instructions

To install Grub2 before following the instructions on how to fix Plymoth screen.

sudo apt-get remove grub
sudo apt-get install grub-pc
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
sudo update-grub2 "

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-05-17
I don't think there's actually a fix. If there was one, it was meant to land in Lucid.

---

### Post by D3jan on 2010-05-17
it's realy uglu ,will maybe some later upadate fix that , now see that I made the mistake that I deleted karmic ubuntu , it perfect worked

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-17
See the General Help forum sticky regarding this.

I've decided not to "fix" anything. I get a black screen with a blinking cursor for about ten seconds then the low res plymouth for about 3 secs. But bootup to usable desktop is <20 secs. 

I've left it like this to see if any bug fixes come through. I can live with it as it is.

nVidia 8600GT

---

### Post by D3jan on 2010-05-17
now everything is fine , i found "StartUp-Manager" who alow to customize GRUB menu resolution and also the splash
[[IMG]http://img225.imageshack.us/img225/8269/boot.png[/IMG]](http://img225.imageshack.us/i/boot.png/)

Uploaded with [ImageShack.us](http://imageshack.us)

---

