---
title: "10.10 or 11.04"
date: 2011-05-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Dr. div11 on 2011-05-14
i jus want to know if i should update from ubuntu 10.10 to 11.04.

which is better 10.10 or 11.04..??


also if i have to update to 11.04....how to update using terminal.. what is the terminal code to update... what command to type in to update..???

---

### Post by frankbooth on 2011-05-14
10.10 has support until 2012-04, so you don't HAVE to upgrade unless you want the latest software or want to use Unity, the new default DE in Ubuntu. 
The classic Gnome desktop as you're used to in 10.10 is still available in 11.04. Just choose 'Classic Desktop' when logging in.

Remember, if it ain't broken, don't fix it. 
Unless you have a good reason to upgrade, you're better off not upgrading :P.

How to upgrade through terminal:
```

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

```

---

### Post by rvchari on 2011-05-14
> **Dr. div11 said:**
> i jus want to know if i should update from ubuntu 10.10 to 11.04.

which is better 10.10 or 11.04..??


also if i have to update to 11.04....how to update using terminal.. what is the terminal code to update... what command to type in to update..???

honestly speaking, it is better to wait for a while before going for upgrade. if you are keenly watching the forum threads, there are some bugs that has to be straightened out. it is better if you try it using a usb live stick and botting off it to check if everything is ok for you.

from terminal, issue command:
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

this should solve your upgradation from terminal. the best way that i have learnt is to go for a clean install and not an upgrade (assuming you have your home partition seperate)

---

### Post by Kri5 on 2011-05-14
There has been a previous post where someone suggested:
 
sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude upgrade
 
Haven't tried it myself as i normally just go through update manager.
Speaking for myself though i'd rather stay with 10.10 for now, tried 11.04 Natty for a bit and didn't really get on with, i found it to be a bit buggy and not as customisable as i would of liked.

---

### Post by shashanksingh on 2011-05-14
If you look for stability, stay with 10.10
If you seek adventure, upgrade

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-05-14
Upgrading to 11.04 is a slaughterhouse....they're falling left and right...read the boards man and run like hell.:P

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2011-05-14
> **frankbooth said:**
>  How to upgrade through terminal:
```

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

``` That won't do much other than a normal program update unless your sources lists are adjusted to the new distro. 

To really upgrade via the shell you'd also have to add this:
```
sudo do-release-upgrade
```

But back to the original question: Is it worth to upgrade? In my opinion: **NO.** Don't do it. 11.04 still leaves a lot to be desired. There are still too many stability and usability issues in 11.04. On the other hand 10.10 is a very stable OS right now (I still have it on several of my computers) and I'd definitey recommend you stick with that for now.

---

