---
title: "Cannot get Crontab to work"
date: 2019-06-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mwoosley on 2019-06-26
Good morning everyone.  I am certainly enjoying setting up and configuring my Ubuntu Server edition.

My issue now is that I cannot get my backups to execute via crontab.

I set up a script file and made it executable in my '/home/me/scripts/etc-backup.sh'  folder.

**The file details are...**
#! bin/bash
# etc directory backup
rsync -av --delete /etc/ /mnt/bu/etc/


**My crontab file details are...**
#min    h   dom    mon   dow      command
57        *   *    *    *                  /home/me/scripts/etc-backup.sh

The 57 is only there because I was repeatedly trying to test the function of the script file and crontab.

My ultimate goal is to backup all my key folders every morning with several different script files and calling crontab.

Any help will be highly appreciated.

Thanks

---

### Post by kpatz on 2019-06-26
The first line in the script should read **#!/bin/bash** not **#! bin/bash** .

Also have it log the output to a file so you can see what errors you're getting, if any.  Change the crontab to read:

```
57 * * * * /home/me/scripts/etc-backup.sh >>/home/me/scripts/etc-backup.log 2>&1
```

Once you do this, any output generated by the script will end up in /home/me/scripts/etc-backup.log.

Most often these issues with crontabs are due to environment variables not being set, such as PATH.  If rsync isn't found, add the path to rsync: **/usr/bin/rsync -av...** or export PATH in your script.

Also, are you putting this in /etc/crontab, or are you using crontab -e to edit your user's crontab?  If it's running as your user, it won't have permission to all files in /etc.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2019-06-26
> **kpatz said:**
> If it's running as your user, it won't have permission to all files in /etc.Furthermore, the -a option won't work correctly. -a means -rlptgoD, -o (preserve owner) only works when running rsync as root, so when running this as your user, ownership of the files in the backup won't be preserved.

If you run the script from root's crontab, there's a problem too. Your own user can replace the script as it's stored in your home directory, root will execute it via crontab, so your own user can execute arbitrary code as root. Not so good security-wise. It's better to store it someplace where only root can modify it.

---

### Post by mwoosley on 2019-06-26
kpatz, this just shows how new I am to this stuff, as I thought the first and second lines were just remarks because of the beginning hashtag... (didn't think anything after the # mattered)

I love the idea of sending the results to a log as that will be very helpful.

Would you mind elaborating on how to assign rsync to the PATH.  I know about why we need these variables, but I just have to plead ignorance on how to enact them... in other other words, do I update the PATH environment variable or do I update something to do directly with rysnc?  

I am using crontab -e as that is what I found in a tutorial online.  I'm assuming you believe I should be using a DIFFERENT crontab (ROOT) so that all the files will be backed up without giving a 'permission denied' response.  If so, I will look at the one inside the /etc folder.

Thank you so much for your help and guidance.  I will try this stuff when I get home from work tonight.

---

### Post by mwoosley on 2019-06-26
Impavidus, thank you for the additional tips in regard to developing my backup process.  I am certainly keen to making things as secure as possible.

---

### Post by mwoosley on 2019-06-27
Update... I found a post where a user suggested using the following options in the rsync command... (NOTE: all this was accomplished with the crontab -e)

[COLOR=#242729][FONT=Consolas]rsync -ahv --no-o --no-g --no-perms target/ destination/  (added the --no options)

[/FONT][/COLOR]I tried this and got obviously a different result.

While much of the data in my /etc folder was backup up, there was probably an equal amount that DID NOT due to permissions.  For example, (it's whats on the screen, lol) the system folder returned 'Operation not permitted'

So, while I am able to get crontab -e to provide output, I CANNOT get the systemwide crontab in the /etc folder to output anything.

OK, I know this was a lot, but in a nutshell, I believe I have permission issues and cannot figure out why the systemwide crontab won't work.

Hopefully my update will shed light on what I'm trying to conquer.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2019-06-27
My guess is that the first error is trying to change the group of "mnt/backup/etc" to root. 
You can't change the group to root - only root can do that. Impavidus already pointed that out. What's more, unless you preserve the ownerships on your backups, any restore based on them will quite possible not work. You really need to do such a backup and restore as root. You can use "sudo -i" to become root and then use "crontab -e" to edit root's crontab. But also as pointed out, you should not run scripts owned by you as root - best to change the owner of those scripts to root as well.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-06-27
Which file system is the target for the backup?  If it isn't a Linux file system or it isn't mounted where you think it is, then problems are likely.

BTW, rsync can be a great tool to mirror what's on storage, but it makes a less-then-great backup tool.  Backups need to be versioned to protect against all sorts of issues like file corruption, crypto-locker malware and a few other nasty things.  OTOH, a backup tool like **rdiff-backup** uses a command style almost identical to rsync while also handling the versioning.  Having 30-60 days of versioned backups only needs 10-20% more storage than the rsync mirror.   If you need to backup 10G of files, then 11G-12G will get you 30-60 days of versioned backups.  Bargain!
 
The first time the backup storage isn't mounted, you'll add a check to your backup script. Hopefully, it won't crash the entire system due to out of storage errors on / or in /var/.

Definitely don't want to run scripts by root that can be accessed/modified by any other account.  Backup script probably belong in /usr/local/bin/ or /root/bin/, IMHO, with root:root and 750 permissions.

Backing up /etc/ is great, but servers need lots of other things in their backups for a restore to be useful.

We all start with a simple backup script. As we learn more or actually need to restore based on that backup, hopefully we are prepared with the needed data AND metadata required to create a fresh system with everything needed.

---

### Post by mwoosley on 2019-06-28
Thanks for all your info TheFu ;)  After giving everything some careful consideration, I think I'm going to change the file system of my backup thumb drives to ext4 from vfat.  I know thumb drives are not the desired medium for mass storage, but in the interim, I'm gonna give them a whirl.  One question though... I just noticed my Linux system drive (/) is formatted with the ext4 file system, while the boot/efi partition is formatted with the vfat system.  It is obviously working fine, but I'm thinking both should be ext4.  What are your thoughts?  Can I CHANGE the boot/efi partition to ext4 without any harm to the machine (the physical machine is just one copy of Ubuntu Server)?  

I installed rdiff-backup and wil play around with that as an alternative to rsync.

I will move my script into the /usr/local/bin folder instead of /home/me/scripts.

When you commented about backup storage not mounted properly and the potential problems, are you refering to rsync or the rdiff-backup program?

Oh yeah, I've only been refering to /etc for my backup as I was trying to simplify my posts... I understand there are more directories, especially my /var directories for my websites.

Based off what I've learned from yours and others posts, I'll mark this thread as solved.

Thank you very much for all your advice and friendly attempts to educate a somewhat stubborn old dude :lolflag:

---

### Post by mwoosley on 2019-06-28
Thanks The Cog.  I thought crontab -e was a scheduler for the user, not root.  Additionally, I thought the /etc/crontab file was the root version of crontab.  I have read some information on crontab and had a couple of your peers suggest this to me (not exactly in this format).  Please correct me if I'm wrong so I can adjust my mindset ;).  

Also, I know about the importance of security within Linux, but I sometimes (crap, many times) wonder if I am using sudo, logging in as root or even working in my own environment correctly.  I have a lot to learn and I suppose through time and many reinstalls, I'll get this down.

I appreciate all your advice and will note what you said in my journal for future reference.

Best regards!

---

### Post by kpatz on 2019-06-28
EFI partitions have to be FAT (vfat) AFAIK.  It's only used for booting, there's no need to worry about Linux ownerships/permissions there.  You don't even need to back this partition up since it would get set up again on a reinstall (correct me if I'm wrong).

I'd get at least 2 external USB hard drives, format them as ext4, and do backups to both of them.  Then if possible, store at least one offsite.

The reason for using ext4 (as opposed to FAT or NTFS) is so that Unix permissions and ownership information are preserved on the backups.  Windows formats don't recognize these.  The only reason to mount FAT/NTFS drives on Linux is if you want to use the same drive/partition in Windows.

/etc/crontab is the "system" crontab.  I think in the Linux version there's a user column so each job in this crontab can run as a different user.  Most of the time, you'll use crontab -e to edit the crontab for a specific user (including root by using sudo) if you want to create your own cron jobs.

There are also the anacron folders cron.daily, cron.weekly, cron.monthly etc, where you can add scripts that will run at the appropriate interval.

---

