---
title: "./filename doesn't work? File's there, quadro-checked..."
date: 2011-01-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by newn on 2011-01-31
Hi everybody. I'm using Ubuntu 10x32. I'm having trouble... executing a file. I'm trying to install something, and ./filename.bin kicks me this:
-bash: ./filename.bin: No such file or directory

What am I doing wrong? Maybe it's different from CentOS 5 and it's not ./?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Darkness Des on 2011-01-31
It is in fact ./, the Shell is universal (for the most part) across all distributions. Does filename.bin actually exist in the current directory?

---

### Post by weedeater64 on 2011-01-31
Maybe a path thing? Are you in the directory where the filename.bin is located?

---

### Post by newn on 2011-01-31
x:~/public$ dir
hldsupdatetool.bin
x:~/public$ chmod +x hldsupdatetool.bin
x:~/public$ ./hldsupdatetool.bin
-bash: ./hldsupdatetool.bin: No such file or directory


It does, that's why I have no idea, what's wrong. :/

---

### Post by Darkness Des on 2011-01-31
X:... That looks like a Windows drive letter. And Dir is the DOS command for "ls". Are you using a Windows Command Prompt emulator by chance?

---

### Post by newn on 2011-01-31
I'm using PuTTy. It's a dedicated server.

And x is the username and server name with @. Just changed it.

I could give more details, exact file names and locations (on the internet), if that's needed.

---

### Post by Darkness Des on 2011-01-31
That would help tremendously, but is not entirely needed. Try using "ls" instead of "dir" and see if that helps. If I could get some information on what the server is running, that would be great. Is it running Linux as a server or Windows with SSH?

---

### Post by weedeater64 on 2011-01-31
Poorly named file maybe?

spaces?

---

### Post by newn on 2011-01-31
[FONT=verdana]mkdir public
cd public
wget [http://www.steampowered.com/download/hldsupdatetool.bin](http://www.steampowered.com/download/hldsupdatetool.bin)
chmod +x hldsupdatetool.bin
./hldsupdatetool.bin
./steam

This is what is supposed to happen.

ls gives nice an colored file name, thanks for the tip. :)
As for windows-linux: I'm running Windows 7 with PuTTy connected to the Linux machine. Linux machine has Ubuntu 10 OS, it is a dedicated server, which was installed few hours ago.

Just a thought: maybe I need some additional... software/packages to use these commands? bin file seems like unpacking process to me.
[/FONT]

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2011-01-31
... a guest...

does

sh hldsupdatetool.bin

or possibly

. ./hldsupdatetool.bin

work?

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2011-01-31
Hi

Do you have unrar installed ?

```
which unrar
```

If it's not installed

```
sudo apt-get install unrar
```

Kind regards

---

### Post by newn on 2011-01-31
hldsupdatetool.bin: 1: Syntax error: "(" unexpected
for the first one and
-bash: .: ./hldsupdatetool.bin: cannot execute binary file
for the second one.

I doubt it. It's a plain-new installation. Just out of the package. How can I install it?

---

### Post by mharrison on 2011-01-31
Try this:

```
chmod a+x name_of_file.bin
```
Then run it by writing:

```
sudo ./name_of_file.bin
```


I know you did a chmod, but you only did +x.

---

### Post by jocko on 2011-01-31
What file system (ext3/4, FAT32, NTFS etc...) do you have the file on?
After you 'chmod +x' the file, what's the output of 'ls -l'?

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2011-01-31
Hi

You could also try

```
chmod u+x hldsupdatetool.bin
```

and then try to run it.

EDIT: Not quite the same as mharrison (uses a u)

Kind regards

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2011-01-31
> **newn said:**
> hldsupdatetool.bin: 1: Syntax error: "(" unexpected


usually this means the shell doesnt know what the contents of the file is.

type

file hldsupdatetool.bin

if it says its a binary then thats the issue - the file isnt a linux executable for your server.

---

### Post by newn on 2011-01-31
mharrison: same. :/

jocko:
username@x:~/public$ ls -l
total 3432
-rwxr-xr-x 1 username username 3513408 2005-09-02 05:27 hldsupdatetool.bin
And I have no idea about the file system, as I didn't installed the OS. It's a dedicated server.

matt_symes: same. :/

davidmohamed:
hldsupdatetool.bin: ELF 32-bit LSB executable, Intel 80386, version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked (uses shared libs), stripped
It seems, that it's an executable.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2011-01-31
Hi

Are you using 64 bit Ubuntu ?

Kind regards

---

### Post by newn on 2011-01-31
No, I asked for x32 Ubuntu, when I was paying for the server.

---

### Post by ppv on 2011-01-31
Can you try 

sudo ~/public/hldsupdatetool.bin

---

### Post by newn on 2011-01-31
sudo: unable to execute /home/username/public/hldsupdatetool.bin: No such file or directory

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2011-01-31
Hi

Where did you get the file from ? I take it you are remote from the server ? How did you get it on the server ?

Can you check your Ubuntu version by typing

```
cat /etc/lsb-release
```

Kind regards

---

### Post by mharrison on 2011-01-31
Can you post the output of ```
uname -r
```

---

### Post by ppv on 2011-01-31
ok...what about trying to wget it again.

another one is could you do a cp on it and see if that works

cp ~/public/hldsupdatetool.bin ~/public/file.bin

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2011-01-31
check to see if you are running 64bit

cat /proc/cpuinfo

if it says 64bit - then install the 32bit libraries

sudo apt-get install ia32-libs

the try and execute again

. ./hld....bin

---

### Post by newn on 2011-01-31
matt_symes:
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=10.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=lucid
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS"
and from the website, I posted few posts back... So yea, from a remote host with wget.

mharrison:
2.6.32-24-server
I'm thinking about updating it though, it if's not the latest. Not sure yet...

ppv: cp works. And tried wgetting it again, even to a different folder, even before posted here. :/

davidmohamed:
Not sure, where it says bits, but copying some... bit-like stuff:
bogomips        : 6399.85
clflush size    : 64
cache_alignment : 64
address sizes   : 36 bits physical, 48 bits virtual.

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2011-01-31
oops my bad - 

uname -m

if it says i686 you are running 32 bit
if it says x86_64 you are running 64 bit

if 64 bit install the 32bit libraries in my post above.

---

### Post by newn on 2011-01-31
x86_64... I specifically selected x32 system, when bought the plan. I think, that some programs doesn't work with 64 bit system, I'll check it tomorrow, as it's late and I'm going to bed today. If I remember correctly - I will contact them and tell them to reinstall it to x32 tomorrow.
And if not - just in case, let me know, how to download those x32 libraries.
I'll let you know, how it went tomorrow.

Sorry for the inconveniences. :/

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2011-01-31
Hi

Yes, it sounds like a 64 bit issue.

There are no inconveniences here ;)

Kind regards

---

### Post by jocko on 2011-02-01
> **newn said:**
> ... - just in case, let me know, how to download those x32 libraries.Like davidmohammed told you:> **davidmohammed said:**
> sudo apt-get install ia32-libs

---

### Post by newn on 2011-02-01
Thanks. I decided to stay on Ubuntu, as it seems, that the software I'm going to run will be able to run on x64 system, as it was updated.
Installed the library and it worked. 

Thanks everybody, and again - sorry for the inconvenience.

---

