---
title: "broadcom STA driver problem"
date: 2012-09-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ray12370 on 2012-09-10
Hello everyone i just downloaded and installed ubuntu 12.04 desktop from a usb flashdrive.oh and i have a Dell Latitude D620 and Broadcom STA driver.Everything worked like a charm except for the wifi.Only ethernet is currently working right now the drivers are up and running.Can anyone give me some terminal codes or make me download some software from the software center?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-09-10
Please open a terminal window, then copy/paste the following to it and press enter (if it doesn't automatically start).

When this finishes, there will be a file called netinfo.txt - reply back here and attach that file to your post.


wget -N -t 5 -T 10 [http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script) && chmod +x wireless_script && ./wireless_script


Also, you may want to just try going to "Additional Drivers" (while you are hard-wired to the net) and let it run.  Hopefully it will return a driver for you to use and you'll just need to enable it.

---

### Post by ray12370 on 2012-09-10
thank you but this wasnt much help

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2012-09-10
Hi , please post the output of..


```
lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 0280 
```

---

### Post by ray12370 on 2012-09-10
i kinda said i was a noobie so could you give me a step by step guide on what exectly to do then i will be fine.
example:
1.type this is terminal
2.then shutdown and download this.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-09-11
Did you do as I requested?  Can't get much simpler - copy the command, paste it in a terminal window (if you don't know how to get that just ask), press enter, and when finished post the file back here as an attachment.  It will tell us a lot - lspci, etc., is just one of the things included in it.  It's not supposed to solve your problem - it's to give us information so we can help solve your problem.

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-09-11
> **anewguy said:**
> .

When this finishes, there will be a file called network.txt - reply back here and attach that file to your post.

Sorry for the correction . Maybe is important , maybe not. 

The file will be created is **netinfo**.txt , not nerwork.txt 

By the way , the script is AWESOME ! 

Thanks to you @anewguy,  and others of course that modified it and check it. 

GREAT job guys !

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-09-11
Oh jeez, thanks for that correction!!  I'm going to go back and edit my post so the right file name is there.

Again, thanks VERY much, NikTh !!  Have a good one!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-09-11
Ray12370:

As Nikth caught and pointed out, I had the name of the output file generated by the script wrong - I have corrected that in the post the showed it.  If you already ran it, there should be a file called "netinfo.txt" in your home folder you can attach to a reply back here.

Sorry for messing up that name, and thanks again to Nikth for catching the error!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by ray12370 on 2012-09-11
hello there dave could you just just tell me what to copy and paste into the terminal then just tell me in a formed manner what to do please im starting to get confused now
-david

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-09-11
Try to understand - we can't just tell you "type this" until we get more information.  What I am requesting you to do will provide us with that information.

This is about as simple as I can make it:

- go to the left of your screen to menu icons going down the screen.  Go to the very top one, single click, and it will give you an area to type in a search key.  Type term - it should come up with a very short number of icons.  Click on the one that says "Terminal".  This will open a terminal window for you (it's like an msdos prompt from Windows).  Some people refer to this as the command line, as indeed you enter commands here.  Now just highlight the following line, then right-click and select "copy":

wget -N -t 5 -T 10 [http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script) && chmod +x wireless_script && ./wireless_script

  Go back to your terminal window, click to the right of the last line on that screen - a blinking cursor should appear then.  Right-click, selected paste and then previously highlighted/copied text will go there.  Now just press enter.

When that is all done, come back here, post a new reply, and use the paperclip symbol at the top of the message area and select the file to be attached - it will be in your home folder, and will be called netinfo.txt.  Click "Submit Reply" and then wait for one of us to check it and go from there.

It really can't be stated any easier, and this is the easiest way to supply us with a lot of information at once.

BTW - I'm a similar boat here with an old Dell laptop I acquired - Dell Inspiron 1501.  It has the same wireless adapter with the same problem, and I have to work from my desktop here to try to get it working.

---

### Post by Pletched on 2012-09-11
Follow the STA no internet access [instructions]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx"). You need to install dkms, patch, fakeroot, and finally bcmwl-kernel-source from the disc in that order. Last of all, restart the computer!

If you have access to the the internet, then you should be able to install the drivers from UbuntuMnu/system/administration/hardware drivers.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-09-12
Got this working on my old laptop - here's what to do:

[LIST]
[*]use the computer you are posting to here with an download the attachment to this post.
[*]unzip the attachment and it will create a bunch of files within a folder called "b43"
[*]copy that b43 folder to a flash media or what ever media you can use to copy it to your ubuntu desktop
[*]open a terminal window
[*]type:  mkdir /lib/firmware/b43 and then press enter.  It will ask for a password - this is your login password and it won't show as you type it - just type it and press enter
[*]**EDIT**:  forgot the BIG one: sudo cp ~/Desktop/b43/*.* /lib/firmware/b43   -- sorry about that!!
[*]type:   sudo rmmod -f b43 and press enter
[*]type:  sudo rmmod -f ssb and press enter.  If you get an error message here it's ok
[*]type:  sudo modprobe b43 and press enter
[/LIST]

Give a minute or so and you should find available wireless networks.

Let me know how this goes, and we both need to give a BIG thank you to user Hadaka - they posted these instructions in my thread asking for help and they worked great for me.

Dave ;)

EDIT:  for the umpteenth time in my life I forgot to attach the file!  I'll post again with just the attachment.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-09-12
Here's the file - sorry about that!

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-09-12
BTW - if this works for you please post back so we can make the change permanent.  If not you'll lose the wireless each time you boot.  Just trying to go a step at a time - get it working, then make the changes permanent.

---

