---
title: "12.04 upgrade corruption"
date: 2013-10-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by zinkwazi on 2013-10-01
I upgraded from 10.04 LTS to 12.04 LTS. When booting up the 'workspace switcher' appears as in 10.04 with 4 workspaces in a straight line - but only the first workspace is active. The others are frozen. When I 'log off/on' (repeatedly) the switcher appears with 4 workspaces arranged in a square and all work fine.

WiFi connection: With the initial log on ('workspace switcher' appears as in 10.04 with 4 workspaces in a straight line) I can easily establish the handshake. When my 4 workspaces are in a square and active I cannot establish the wifi connection. A window requesting the wireless hotspot password pops up constantly although the hotspot is already set up in the list of past connections. But the Ubuntu authentication key request to connect wirelessly only appears occasionally.

Printer: Although visible in the set up, there is no communication.

I did get an 'internal error' message: 'nautilus crashed with SIGABKT in raise()'

A friend referred me to: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/106031/how-can-i-remove-new-kernel-versions-after-downgrading](http://askubuntu.com/questions/106031/how-can-i-remove-new-kernel-versions-after-downgrading)
I followed the instructions to remove linux-header-3 and image-3 and updated 'grub' in the 'Terminal'. All apparently successful but without effect. My problems are unchanged!

---

### Post by whitesmith on 2013-10-01
Welcome to the forums! The reference you cite is about removing new kernel versions after downgrading, but you upgraded. Can you explain why you did that, other than on the advice of a friend?

---

### Post by zinkwazi on 2013-10-01
In order to revert to previous kernel versions. That had worked for him.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-10-01
I don't think you had any problem with the kernel. Upgrades from 10.04 to 12.04 are often somewhat problematic as so many things changed. The new versions of the various programs (desktop environment, workspace switcher, network manager etc.) don't recognise the old versions of the configuration files. When I upgraded from 10.04 to 12.04 I had to reconfigure the DE and change some network settings. I had to open /etc/network/interfaces and change it to```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
```I don't know whether that's the problem for you too. Otherwise, it may help to ask that question on the network subforum.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-10-02
If original poster wants the thread moved it's easy to do, but first I recommend a clean install of 12.04.3.

---

### Post by BBQdave on 2013-10-02
> **mörgæs said:**
> I recommend a clean install of 12.04.3.

+1

A fresh install may be the most direct, and easy, fix to the system :)

---

