---
title: "9.04 - ATI driver for radeon"
date: 2009-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-05-11
I've seen some posts here since 9.04 about not using the Radeon driver for now in 9.04.  I have to admit I've been fine just using the vesa driver (9250 pro, compiz and everything works fine).  I know that ATI has a Linux version of their driver which supports my card.  Given that I don't play any of the big games (I'm simple - kgolf, mahjong and the card games are it for me!), would it make any difference to me to try the ATI driver, or should I just let things be?

Probably a silly question, but perhaps it will lead to a little more discussion on 9.04 and the ATI driver support.

Thanks in advance!

Dave :)

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2009-05-11
Im not certain but thought it had been fixed at the beta stage, you can always give it a try ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-05-11
I have nothing under restricted drivers, so I assume I need to download the driver from ATI yet?

Thanks!
Dave :)

---

### Post by jjacobs2 on 2009-05-11
I can't imagine you being able to run compiz with vesa.  Perhaps you already have the open source ATI driver installed.  That's what they're recommending people use and it should be somewhat close to the proprietary driver in performance for older ATI cards.

---

### Post by Mortus Pryde on 2009-05-11
I think though my not be 100% correct, still rather new that maybe your card is not supported by the latest ATI/AMD driver. I may be wrong, but you should know EXACTLY before you download the AMD driver, it's generally a pain to install anyway. I am still running 8.10 on my laptop because my card was dropped from support in the 9.4 Catalyst driver by AMD, and I needed the excelerated support for some of my apps.

---

### Post by servicetech on 2009-05-11
****WARNING****

If the driver is not compatible it can toast your install since there is no easy way to remove the ATI driver w/o being able to see the screen. I ended up having to do a reinstall to get my machine working again.

---

### Post by Mortus Pryde on 2009-05-11
Thank you servicetech, I was meaning to point that out in my post.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-05-11
I take it back what I said about Vesa - just looked again at xorg.conf and it just says "configured device" with nothing else there.  I'm assuming that when all the stuff changed around (and believe me I don't understand it) that made xorg.conf rather useless, that it must be picking up a driver somewhere.  I'll have to check the log and see what it's actually using.

Dave :)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-05-11
Well do I feel like an idiot - checked the log and sure enough it is loading a RADEON driver from xorg, even though xorg.conf doesn't say so.  So, I'm sorry for a waste of time here.  

Thanks for the replies!

Dave :)

---

