---
title: ".sh script launcher"
date: 2011-02-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Hygaphunkik on 2011-02-12
I am trying to create a panel launcher for a java application.

I wrote a script which launches the app when double clicked and run is selected, but if I point a panel launcher at it I get the message permission denied. Why will this not work, it seems like it should be so simple.

Here is the bash script code.

```
#! /bin/bash
cd /home/studio/nomad-0-3_2
 java -jar nomad.jar
```

Here is the launcher command

```
/home/studio/nomad-0-3_2 ./Nomad.sh
```

Here is error message, from the panel launcher.

```
Failed to execute child process "/home/studio/nomad-0-3_2" (Permission denied)
```

I have done some research but cannot seem to find a solution. I have made sure all permissions are ok, and it confuses me because the script will run if I just click on it.

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2011-02-12
in launcher put full path of the script in 1 piece
e.g. /full/path/to/script/Nomad.sh
your current command makes no sense, there are 2 items:
directory which launcher tries to execute but obviously fails and
./Script meaning 'run script in current directory' but launcher thinks it's some kind of parameter for the first part.

that can't work, merge it (drop space and .) - most likely you need
```
/home/studio/nomad-0-3_2/Nomad.sh
```

---

### Post by robsoles on 2011-02-12
Change the launcher command to this: (I could just say remove the . and the space but this is clearer)

/home/studio/nomad-0-3_2/Nomad.sh

---

### Post by Hygaphunkik on 2011-02-12
Thanks people worked a treat.

I always wondered what the ./ meant, I normally cd to a directory when I am trying to run a script from terminal which is why I thought that ./ meant run as a script program.

Thanks for clearing up my misconception, I will mark this thread as solved.

---

