---
title: ".TAR file and software download basics"
date: 2013-06-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nuxweevil on 2013-06-28
Most of my software comes through a package manager, but of course there are packages I want that are registered with the package managers, which may however be available to download as tar.gz. Where do I extract the .tar to? I have a folder in home called "software" becase I'm afraid to mess with folders outside of home. Should I be extracting to usr/bin or a  newly created subfolder thereof?

Or, should I be somehow trying to acquire these software packages via synaptic rather than directly?

Is software installation in GNU-Linux a little goofy and overcomplicated, or am I totally missing something?

---

### Post by cub on 2013-06-29
If the application is available through a software package is usually easier to use. On the other hand you might want to use a newer version which often is available through tar.gz. Most often you would unpack the files in Downloads/Software or any other folder you think is suitable. Then there most often is a readme file or instructions on the homepage where you downloaded on how to install the package. I don't think you would need to extract to /usr/bin or similar except in very rare, strange cases.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-06-29
The first place to look for software is always in the official repositories, accessed through synaptic (or apt-get, software centre, ...) If the software you want isn't available there or is outdated, you can try a PPA. This will add an additional repository, which can be accessed through synaptic etc. The third option is the semi-automatic way, downloading a .deb file, that will be registered in the package management system. Only then try .tar.gz and manual installation. The procedure for this varies.

Manually installed software I don't put in /usr/bin. It makes things complicated to keep track of and it may confuse the package management. I always put manually installed software either in ~/bin (mostly experimental stuff I wrote myself) or in /usr/local, but that's little more than add-ons/data packages for automatically installed software.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-06-29
Look for software in this order:

1. In the Ubuntu repositories
2. In third-party repositories or PPAs (do a search for the program's name and "ppa", for instance, "skype ppa")
3. A .deb package
4. A binary installer (with ".sh", ".bin" or ".run" as the file extension, usually)
5. A .tar.gz package

In other words, look for a PPA containing the software. There is usually one.

---

### Post by Zill on 2013-06-29
> **nuxweevil said:**
> ...Is software installation in GNU-Linux a little goofy and overcomplicated...
No!
> **nuxweevil said:**
> ...or am I totally missing something?
Yes!

See [Installing Software in Ubuntu]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware")

btw. Welcome to Ubuntu forums :-)

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2013-06-29
**Tip:**

For software not in the repos and not in some PPA, you are sometimes offered a choice of downloading a .deb file archive or another type  (such as .tar.gz or .bin) of file. Choose the .deb file, as it should be installed with a menu entry, any dependencies will be resolved, and it is "visible" to Ubuntu's package managers. (For example, many of the Humble Bundle games have this choice.)

To install a downloaded .deb, you could use the Software Center or the **gdebi** package installer (not installed - found in the Ubuntu repos).

---

