---
title: "Problem with file recognition (file extensions)"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by balagosa on 2008-04-28
i know there might be other guide there that can answer my problem but the forums is just filled with threads already. it might take me days to find what i am looking for, so spare me!

you can pinpoint the link though, i would appreciate it very much.

the Prob:
so i got some pics in my FlashDrive and i want to upload it on the net. the pics were generated by my Sony DigiCam which have file extensions of ".JPG". My FlashDrive is FULL of pictures. uploading time, i browsed to my FlashDrive and it was EMPTY!

so what i tried was change the file extensions from ".JPG" to ".jpg". now this worked and did the prob. so what i need to know is, how will i let Ubuntu recognize my pics that are ".JPG", ".GIF", or ".SOMETHING", same time let it recognize the lowercase file extensions.

---

### Post by damis648 on 2008-04-28
hmm... as far as i kno my nautilus does not observe file extensions... it looks as if it just checks the actual encoding/type of file because i have changed the extensions and nothing has happened... weird...

EDIT: never mind scratch that i only did it once and i dont know what happened then but stuff is changing now...

---

### Post by NT4usB on 2008-04-28
Ubuntu does know what the file is without an extension. It will recognize a file that has the wrong extension for it's contents (.avi on a mpg, for instance) and warn you of that.
You can remove the extension and Ubuntu will still identify and run it.

(to the OP) what are you using to upload the files? May be that software doesn't recognize the upper case?
afaik, Ubuntu doesn't hide files/filetypes based on extension (or case.) Folders (and files too?) that begin with a dot are hidden but not likely your pictures are: 
.mypic.JPG

---

### Post by balagosa on 2008-04-29
uhmm...if you need details then,

the website i am trying to upload to is **Friendster**, and the file manager i have is **Thunar File Manager**. i will try using nautilus and see if it changes anything.

nope...my files arent "**something.something**.JPG" it is straight up "**Image1.JPG**"

---

### Post by T-Virus on 2008-04-29
Well I have absolutely no problem using **Dolphin**. Try that one instead.

---

### Post by balagosa on 2008-04-29
still not resolved.

not a big a deal though

i can still upload photos but i need to specify the file.

---

