---
title: "8.04 Live CD: Display issue"
date: 2008-07-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by m_ad on 2008-07-13
I've searched all over this forum and others for a solution to my problem. I've seen a lot of others with the same problem, but none of their solutions worked for me.

I have a NVIDIA GeForce 6150 LE video card. I thought all I needed to do was install 'Nvidia X.Org driver ('new' driver)' and possibly restart x, but that didn't help.

The problem is I'm stuck in 800x600, and I don't want to install Ubuntu on this machine until I can fix this issue :confused:

Thanks.

---

### Post by Ahunt on 2008-07-13
I have an NVidia GeForce 4000 series card and it didn't work on the Live CD either - video was of centre and obvioulsy not working with the card. It wouldn't install a driver while in LiveCD session. As soon as I installed Ubuntu it automatically asked if I wanted to install the NVidia driver and then went and got it - it works fine now.

Hopefully if you decide to install either as sole OS or in a partion it will automatically fix the problem for you.

---

### Post by m_ad on 2008-07-13
> **Ahunt said:**
> I have an NVidia GeForce 4000 series card and it didn't work on the Live CD either - video was of centre and obvioulsy not working with the card. It wouldn't install a driver while in LiveCD session. As soon as I installed Ubuntu it automatically asked if I wanted to install the NVidia driver and then went and got it - it works fine now.

Hopefully if you decide to install either as sole OS or in a partion it will automatically fix the problem for you.

yeah, I'm sure there's an easy solution. just misleading when you "Try Ubuntu without making any changes to your system" and it doesn't function 100%.

I may just go ahead and install on a separate partition - if it doesn't work right away I will continue to ask for a solution :)

---

### Post by Ahunt on 2008-07-13
All I can say is that is worked very well on my machine with the NVidia card.

Trying on a separate partition is probably the safest approach!

---

### Post by m_ad on 2008-07-13
does anyone have specific instructions on getting my GeForce 6150 LE to work after I installed Ubuntu? or will the installation detect it and install/configure the drivers automatically?

---

### Post by m_ad on 2008-07-14
bumping once more before I go for the install :popcorn:

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-07-14
> **m_ad said:**
> bumping once more before I go for the install :popcorn:

Hi and you can use the restricted drivers once installed. You may catch the bug of the resolution but could you give some system specs?
You are having resolutions issues with the live cd?

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-07-14
Generally, after an installation one goes to System --> Administration --> Hardware Drivers and click the box there to enable the graphics drivers - nvidia provide good support, but no-one can promise 100% that it will work with your system. You'll have to install to see.

---

### Post by Ahunt on 2008-07-14
In my case I didn't even have to go to System --> Administration --> Hardware Drivers and ask it to install the driver. As soon a the installation process was complete Ubuntu detected the NVidia card and asked if I wanted the driver installed - very nice actually.

---

### Post by m_ad on 2008-07-14
> **overdrank said:**
> Hi and you can use the restricted drivers once installed. You may catch the bug of the resolution but could you give some system specs?
You are having resolutions issues with the live cd?

Everything seemed to work properly in the live session, except the resolution (maybe not audio, can't remember). But I do remember getting my wired connection to work :)

System specs:
AMD Athlon 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 3800+
Seagate ST316081 2AS SCSI Disk Drive
TSTcorp DVD+-RW TS-H653A SCSI Cdrom Drive
NVIDIA GeForce 6150 LE
SigmaTel High Definition Audio
Broadcom 440x 10/100 Integrated Controller

Did I miss anything?

Thanks for the responses..

---

