---
title: ".RXX/.RAR files not extracting correctly"
date: 2013-01-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lolful64 on 2013-01-10
I have ubuntu 12.10

I know for a fact on windows to extract .Rxx files or multiple .rar files you need to select them all then just click extract. The problem is that ubuntu is extracting each of the archives one by one and naming them "name-here"."file type here"(1)/(2) and so on.

Is there a solution?

---

### Post by Rocklobster690 on 2013-01-12
I'm guessing it's because they all have the same filename. 

You could script the process of unrar:

```
unrar foo foo-bar.rar
```

---

### Post by lolful64 on 2013-01-14
> **Rocklobster690 said:**
> 
You could script the process of unrar:

```
unrar foo foo-bar.rar
```

so how would I use that if there are .r00 to .r02 files and 1 .rar file all with the same name?

---

### Post by d4m1r on 2013-01-14
You are going to have to explain the issue better...What are you files named before extraction and then after?

Under Ubuntu, here is how it currently works for me; I have 3 files called example.rar, example.r01 and example.r02 all in the same directory. I open the .rar and it the file split in all 3 archives to the directory I specified. The name of the file extracted depends on what it was set to when archived.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2013-01-14
> **lolful64 said:**
> I know for a fact on windows to extract .Rxx files or multiple .rar files you need to select them all then just click extract.

This isn't true.

You just extract the .rar file and it will automatically use the .r** if they are needed/available.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2013-01-14
> **Cheesemill said:**
> This isn't true.

You just extract the .rar file and it will automatically use the .r** if they are needed/available.

+1 to this, you only need to select & extract the first file. The archive manager is smart enough to look for the other files when it finds out that you are extracting a split archive.

---

