---
title: "DNS not resolving after upgrade to 12.04"
date: 2012-05-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Deinonysus on 2012-05-22
Hello,

I have not been able to use the internet since upgrading to 12.04. Every 5 or 10 minutes, I will be able to get to a web page by URL for about a minute, but I am mostly only able to use IP addresses. I am unable to download updates via the software center.

I started a thread earlier about my internet problems and I have started a new one because we narrowed it down to DNS. Here is the previous thread, for reference:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1980784](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1980784)

Thank you for reading!

---

### Post by Deinonysus on 2012-05-24
Bump

---

### Post by Deinonysus on 2012-05-24
Bump

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2012-05-24
what are the outputs of 

```

ifconfig
cat /etc/resolv.conf

```is NetworkManager running?

```
ps -ef|grep NetworkManager

```do you have anything other than the lo (loopback) interface defined in /etc/network/interfaces?

---

### Post by Deinonysus on 2012-05-24
Thank you for your response!

> **steeldriver said:**
> what are the outputs of 

```
ifconfig
```
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr e0:cb:4e:b9:09:eb  
          inet addr:10.0.0.2  Bcast:10.0.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::e2cb:4eff:feb9:9eb/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:8320 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:7244 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:8173244 (8.1 MB)  TX bytes:1514639 (1.5 MB)
          Interrupt:41 Base address:0xc000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:1129 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1129 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:107715 (107.7 KB)  TX bytes:107715 (107.7 KB)

> ```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1
search hsd1.ma.comcast.net

> is NetworkManager running?
```
ps -ef|grep NetworkManager

```
This is the output:
root       795     1  0 19:19 ?        00:00:00 NetworkManager
root      1495   795  0 19:19 ?        00:00:00 /sbin/dhclient -d -4 -sf /usr/lib/NetworkManager/nm-dhcp-client.action -pf /var/run/sendsigs.omit.d/network-manager.dhclient-eth0.pid -lf /var/lib/dhcp/dhclient-7d0aec67-69ef-473f-a27c-984e5d506d73-eth0.lease -cf /var/run/nm-dhclient-eth0.conf eth0
adam      5298  5131  0 21:09 pts/0    00:00:00 grep --color=auto NetworkManager


(Adam being my name / account name)

> do you have anything other than the lo (loopback) interface defined in /etc/network/interfaces?
It says:

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2012-05-24
hmm... I can't really help you since I don't know anything about dnsmasq

you could try

```
nm-tool | grep -i dns
```to see what it's actually resolving to, and 

```
grep -i dnsmasq /var/log/dmesg
```to see if there are any obvious errors

---

### Post by Deinonysus on 2012-05-24
> **steeldriver said:**
> hmm... I can't really help you since I don't know anything about dnsmasq

you could try

```
nm-tool | grep -i dns
```to see what it's actually resolving to, and 

```
grep -i dnsmasq /var/log/dmesg
```to see if there are any obvious errors
I can't say I've ever heard of DNSmasque!  The first command returned DNS:  8.8.8.8 and DNS: 8.8.4.4 because I had set my IPv4 to use Google's DNS server after my default wasn't working.  I've tried a few different DNS servers and nothing's worked.  The second command returned nothing.

Thank you for your help!

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-05-24
Hi Deinonysus.

It looks like you are using the default configuration on 12.04. That, indeed, uses dnsmasq (which it is not a bad thing).

Could you post the result of these commands?
```
grep dnsmasq /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf

cat /var/run/nm-dns-dnsmasq.conf

nslookup ubuntu.com

dig ubuntu.com
```
Regards.

---

### Post by Deinonysus on 2012-05-30
> **papibe said:**
> Hi Deinonysus.

It looks like you are using the default configuration on 12.04. That, indeed, uses dnsmasq (which it is not a bad thing).

Could you post the result of these commands?


Thank you very much!

```
grep dnsmasq /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
```
dns=dnsmasque

```
cat /var/run/nm-dns-dnsmasq.conf
```
server=76.76.76.76
server=76.76.75.75

```
nslookup ubuntu.com
```
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached

(I'll try again when I have a window of time where my DNS is working)

```
dig ubuntu.com
```

; <<>> DiG 9.8.1-P1 <<>> ubuntu.com
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: SERVFAIL, id: 58375
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 0, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0

;; QUESTION SECTION:
;ubuntu.com.			IN	A

;; Query time: 3 msec
;; SERVER: 127.0.0.1#53(127.0.0.1)
;; WHEN: Wed May 30 18:54:24 2012
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 28

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-05-30
> **Deinonysus said:**
> 
dns=dnsmasque

That looks like a typo, did you edit that file?

It should be:
```
dns=dnsmasq
```
Edit the file and correct it:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
```
Then restart your network:
```
sudo service network-manager restart
```

Tell us how it goes.
Regards.

BTW, your DNS servers don't work for me: 76.76.76.76, 76.76.75.75
I wonder if they are correct.

---

### Post by Deinonysus on 2012-05-30
> **papibe said:**
> That looks like a typo, did you edit that file?

It should be:
```
dns=dnsmasq
```
Edit the file and correct it:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
```
Then restart your network:
```
sudo service network-manager restart
```

Tell us how it goes.
Regards.

BTW, your DNS servers don't work for me: 76.76.76.76, 76.76.75.75
I wonder if they are correct.
Oops!  That was a typo.  Instead of copy-pasting, I typed it the way I was pronouncing it.  The file does indeed say dnsmasq.

I believe that is my computer's default DNS server.  I'm not sure where it comes from.  Maybe the router, maybe Comcast.  I've also tried Google's DNS server, 8.8.8.8,8.8.4.4 and have gotten the same results.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-05-30
Try disabling dnsmasq completely.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11923702&postcount=40](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11923702&postcount=40)

---

### Post by Deinonysus on 2012-05-30
> **CharlesA said:**
> Try disabling dnsmasq completely.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11923702&postcount=40](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11923702&postcount=40)
That seems to have done it!  I've been able to load web pages from URL for a solid 15 minutes!  Thank you very much!  And thank you everyone else who helped!  If I don't have more problems soon I'll mark this thread solved.

---

### Post by Face-Ache on 2012-05-30
I've been watching this to see how it panned out - really pleased you managed to get it all sorted out  :)

---

