---
title: "...MORE Wireless issues"
date: 2008-07-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cberry78 on 2008-07-09
So I realized that my old post would proabably get buried before the others that have already helped me would see it, so I'm reposting as a new thread and you can see the background information here:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=851465](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=851465)

SIGH! OK...I shut down my Ubuntu machine last night and this morning when I logged on I had internet as well. I left the computer on when I went to work and at sometime during the day my Ubuntu machine shut down (might have been a power surge, might have been the comp itself [was an issue I had with XP on it]), and now I don't have internet....again.

lshw - C Network shows: 
module=ssb (if you need the full list let me know)

sudo rmmod sbb tells me:
ERROR: Module sbb does not exist in /proc/modules

sudo modprobe -r ssb tells me:
FATAL: Module ssb is in use.

sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist has blacklist sbb as my last entry

System => Administration => Network is reading my network with 23-39%+ (which is the same as it was last night, and the same I get with my Vista machine).

So.....any suggestions? Please?

---

### Post by kevmitch on 2008-07-09
Did you reboot after adding the blacklist entry? The blacklist only tells udev (what automatically loads modules for your hardware on boot) what not to load when it is first run. 

If sbb is still somehow getting loaded even though it has been blacklisted? Are you sure that you don't have sbb loading in /etc/modules? Also, I'm not sure if the /etc/modprobe/blacklist file is sensitive to this, but some config files need a final new line after the last entry for that last entry to be correctly read.

Oh yeah, you might also try the "-f" (force) switch to the "modprobe -r" command. This can however be dangerous in some circumstances so you've been warned.

---

### Post by cberry78 on 2008-07-09
Yes I had rebooted andit had worked the night before, and again it's working now (even though I'm typing this on my Vista machine).  I didn't do anything except turn it (Ubuntu machine) on this morning and I have Internet.  I'll keep an eye on it and if I run into anymore issues, I'll be back.

Thanks!
Chris

---

