---
title: "13.04 - system and disk &quot;sleep&quot; (even from me this is a dumb question!)"
date: 2013-06-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-02
Ok, here's the situation:I have a 13.04 install running on a ZBox.  I use it is a desktop and as a Samba server.  I have an external drive (USB - changing over to esata tonight) that the shares are on.  I can't believe I'm even asking, but......where is the setting to say whether your system times out, the screen times out, the disks time out (for power saving)?  All I could find was under system settings/power and there sure isn't enough there for what I need to do.  I've left the system sit for a while (like anyone would) and it blanks the screen - that's ok.  But I've also had it put the system to sleep - not good for a box also being used as a server. Also - the external disk is a Toshiba one that had a known problem with just shutting itself off - even right in the middle of backups.  That's why it's been replaced as a backup drive and now being used for share storage.  Toshiba did put out a patch to stop the randow power downs, but now it seems that with inactivity the drive also "sleeps".  For a regular PC trying to access this may be ok, but on my Nexus 7 tablet the SMB connection times out waiting for the drive to wake up.Anyway to:- stop the system from ever sleeping at all- stop the disk from sleepingThanks!  I know it's dumb - I've done this many, many times in the past myself.  For some reason I am suffering a large number of NAKS in my brain connections right now ;)

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2013-06-02
Hi, give the external usb-drive a nudge every 5 minutes
with a cron job.
```
*/5 * * * * /bin/touch /dev/sdX &>/dev/null
```
sdX=whatever your sd is.../dev/sdb....sdc
Helpfull link for cron jobs if you need any info..
[http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2009/06/15-practical-crontab-examples/](http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2009/06/15-practical-crontab-examples/)
on the sytstem side...just go to ...system settings---power... set everything to Never
hope this helps

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2013-06-02
I think those settings are in "power management".  Can't swear to it as the last Ubuntu I used was Lucid.  Oh and if I'm wrong bump.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-02
Thanks!!!!  I'm going to get that set up tomorrow as I'm actually tired tonight and it's still early, but off to bed I go.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-29
Tried this on a Raspberry Pi that I'll be using for a media center using XBMC and found that indeed it seems to keep the disk alive, but it also causes XBMC to loose sync so it stops playing a video.  Have to exit all the way out of XBMC to start again and then after 5 minutes - bingo, it's gone again.  So, I had to remove this crontab entry on the Pi.

---

