---
title: "Dual Monitor Challenges"
date: 2008-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by borg7171 on 2008-05-01
Firstly, my TOTAL experience with Unix/Linux has been the last 3 days picking away at Ubuntu for a few hours in the evenings.  Yea, I'm a n00b.

So, after much pain and suffering, I finally got my Nvidia drivers installed (Thanks to all the great posts in these forums!) and after a while, figured out how to get both of my monitors to display, in the correct resolutions and even wide screen on one of them.  So far so good...

My challenge is probably due to the way I mudged this together, but I ended up using;

sudo nvidia-settings --separate-x-screens

My very limited knowledge leads me to believe that this is running two instances of X or something like that.  The problems with this setup are (in no particular order):


1)  Can't drag a window from one screen to the other
2)  If I don't do anything on one screen for a while, the screen saver kicks in on both.  (I know, I could disable that, but it is anoying)
3)  The 'primary' monitor is the wrong one, and when I try and fix it, everything goes to pot.
4)  Performance on 'primary' monitor is terrible.  Click on a menu item and there is a very noticeable lag before anything happens.


What I want is the same thing as in this post, [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=773063&highlight=dual+monitor](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=773063&highlight=dual+monitor), where both screens are part of the same X, where I can drag stuff from one to the other and where when I maximize a window, it only fills one display.


System specs:
Nvidia 7950 w/512MB
4GB ram
Intel dual-core 3.0 Ghz
Yada yada yada

As soon as I figure out how to post my xorg.conf without being completely annoying, I will do so.

Thanks for any help provided

---

### Post by borg7171 on 2008-05-01
Figured it out!  :)
[PHP]
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Thu Feb 14 18:13:41 PS
T 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    Screen      1  "Screen0 (2nd)" RightOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7950 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0 (2nd)"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7950 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0 (2nd)"
    Device         "Device0 (2nd)"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
[/PHP]

---

