---
title: "10.04 Not Installing"
date: 2010-06-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by edempco on 2010-06-15
Hi,

I've been using the last LTS since it was offered. Thought I was ready for 10.04, but I don't think Lucid is ready for me. I tried upgrading. Had several lock-ups. Eliminated 8.04 LTS completely. Installed 10.04 as a dual boot (same as 8.04). After many attempts, it installed and then I could not get it to boot. 

I followed several (many) threads that looked similar to my situation and followed the directions. Things have gotten worse instead of better. At this point, neither 10.04 or XP will boot.

I tried to install 9.10. It seemed to install, but the dual boot selection screen does not show 9.10 as an option. I found that holding the F8 key on boot presents me with a system screen that allows me to make a boot selection (it shows only the partitions; I need to guess which one).

There is an ATI Radeon 9550 video card installed, which may be one problem (ATI seems to be a problem by itself), but I don't understand why all Ubuntu versions from Edgy to Karmic (9.10) all will load and run, but not Lucid.

Is there any suggestions for fixing, adjusting, or modifying 10.04 to operate? Where do I go from here?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-06-16
Can you elaborate on what happens after installing. What errors do you get? Does the boot process stop half way?
Try checking the iso and the cd for integrity.

---

### Post by scheuri on 2010-06-16
I personally think its the installation disc, not ubuntu itself. However, I cant say for sure unless you may give me more details.

I second what mikewhatever said: Check the installation disk, maybe download the ISO again, check the MD5 sum, burn the cd again (slow speed!) and then check the integrity of the cd.

What happens if you use the Desktop-CD and use it live (without installing)? Same troubles?

---

### Post by edempco on 2010-06-16
Thank you for the suggestion. I needed this, because often the obvious is what I need to do. This time, however, I downloaded 10.04 two more times (total of 3) and reinstalled with the same results. The same thing did not happen 100% of the time, so that gave me hope that I could continue with the installation. I continued until I the same results occurs; when it attempts to boot, it reboots. This occurs whether booting into Windows or Ubuntu.

Here is a list of what happened as I progressed:
1. Installation froze several times (no keyboard or mouse control). 
2. Downloaded and burned a second disk (using Ubuntu 8.04).
3. Continued to freeze, but on one occasion I got it to the install screens. After several more attempts, it installed. 
4. On reboot, it froze. Rebooting several times brought it to a working desktop ... and then it froze.
5. Used the Ubuntu recovery to install updates and rebooted - did this several times. It seemed to be getting better, but still froze with no apparent regularity.
6. Tried several (many) suggestions from users in the community - it started to get worse. The focus seemed to be on ATI video cards - I could not get my card recognized by 10.04. My video card is an ATI (Diamond) Radeon R9550. I tried to undo the suggestions with undetermined success.
7. I booted to Windows and used Wubi to install 10.04 again, but the dual boot window that was shown in the installation instructions did not come up. I was still presented the old dual boot screen (with the same results).
7. After another attempt to fix the system (the time has now passed from the last of April to the present), the computer will not boot to either Windows or Ubuntu.
8. I decided to install 9.04. I did not erase the disk. I installed it side-by-side with 10.04, Edgy (an old release), and Windows (I can still boot to Edgy from the dual boot screen). After installation, 9.04 does not come up on the dual boot screen as one of the choices. After more attempts to figure this out, I stumbled on pressing the F8 key, while booting, which gives me a partition screen and the choice to choose which partition to boot with. I can boot to 9.04 using this method.

I am at the point where I feel that 10.04 needs to be reinstalled; I have another newly downloaded and burned image CD, but when I go to install, there is no way to simply select the 10.04 partition. Also, I get a report from one of the install screens (advanced button) that I have no bootable partitions.

There you have it in a little more than a nutshell, but trying to recount all of the keys that were pressed over two months time is impossible. Based on this, are there any suggestions?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-06-16
Somehow, re-downloading and re-burning the iso appeals to people, in spite of being the least effective solution. Have you checked any of the downloaded isos and burnt cds for integrity?
In order to verify the disk layout, boot from a live cd,
open Applications->Accessories->Terminal and post the output of
**sudo fdisk -l**

---

### Post by edempco on 2010-06-16
I've used checksum in the past, but not on these downloads. In other instances, they have always been correct, the first time. For 10.04, I have some problems. In the first place, it is way to cumbersome - Terminal is okay for someone who knows the lingo, but I have found it to be a detriment to just poke around in it; second, the ISOs are on a different drive than the current version (9.04) and I don't know how to switch drives to get to them using Terminal; third, checking the Image CD is even more complicated; fourth, the directions found in "HowToMD5SUM" are only applicable to version 8.10 - who's "jsmith jsmith" for instance?

Thus the reason for downloading and burning the disk three different times on three different occasions using three different methods: standard download, torrent, and Wubi - they all can't be wrong ... or could they?

Here's an idea why not make it easy and do it with a GUI and not rely on fingers that make mistakes?

I'm fairly sure I have a viable CD (used it on another machine without problems). Any other ideas?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-06-16
Well, let's do what we can then. Generally speaking, downloading with bittorrent checks the hashes so that you should be ok, at least with that one iso. 
You can still check the cds for integrity in a very simple way:
-boot from the cd (assuming 10.04)
-hit any key as soon as you see the purple background (after the bios screen)
-select the language and hitting enter
-select the option 'Check disk for defects' and hit enter.

With that out of the way, I still don't understand the current situation. 
Is Ubuntu installed? 
Which version or versions?
Does any of the installed Ubuntu versions boots?
If not, what happens?

In addition, please post the rest of the specs - CPU, RAM, anything else you know.

---

### Post by edempco on 2010-06-16
I know there was a lot of stuff in my posts, but to answer your questions directly:
Is Ubuntu installed? (Yes; Edgy, 9.10, and 10.04)
Which version or versions? (as mentioned)
Does any of the  installed Ubuntu versions boots? (Edgy and 9.10)
If not, what happens? (only 10.04 does not boot)
In  addition, please post the rest of the specs - CPU, RAM, anything else  you know. 
[INDENT]From "System Monitor, 9.10":
Ubuntu
[INDENT]Release 9.10(karmic)
Kernel Linux 2.6.31-22-generic
GNOME 2.28.1
[/INDENT]Hardware
[INDENT]Memory: 2.0 GiB
Processor 0: Intel(R) Pentium(R) 4 CPU 2.80GHZ
Processor 1: Intel(R) Pentium(R) 4 CPU 2.80GHZ
[/INDENT]System Status
[INDENT]Available disk space: 49.2 GiB
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-06-16
Odd. I've googled 'ubuntu radeon 9550' and there aren't any recent results. Hopefully, someone with the same card and using Lucid will see this.

---

### Post by edempco on 2010-06-16
The Radeon 9550 card is mentioned in several places. These are the "suggestions" I referred to in the previous posts. I think that these suggestions are what got me into trouble with booting; even farther than I had been.

Here are some general resources of problems with the Radeon card:
[[*ubuntu*]  *Radeon 9550* in 1680 x 1050 mode - Ubuntu Forums]("http://www.google.com/url?q=http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php%3Ft%3D1436056&sa=X&ei=AywZTMWiI4L_8AbnqPiuDA&ved=0CBkQrAIoADAB&usg=AFQjCNGgGVaHAMsDktPO02bgT-F8Cqi17g")&#8206;
[[*ubuntu*]  *Radeon 9550* and Ubuntu 9.10 Mozilla Issues - Ubuntu Forums]("http://www.google.com/url?q=http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php%3Ft%3D1336692&sa=X&ei=AywZTMWiI4L_8AbnqPiuDA&ved=0CBoQrAIoATAB&usg=AFQjCNEVr1BsWnC4Zh-kHf-ONruA6h7Aow")&#8206;
[[SOLVED]  Compiz, *Radeon 9550*, and fglrx driver - *Ubuntu* Forums]("http://www.google.com/url?q=http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php%3Ft%3D625755&sa=X&ei=AywZTMWiI4L_8AbnqPiuDA&ved=0CBsQrAIoAjAB&usg=AFQjCNHbOjIGkRJdgtL_f0VCLKVV41mMEw")&#8206;
[Installing  ATI Driver for *Ubuntu* (*Radeon 9550*) - Still get Mesa **...**]("http://www.google.com/url?q=http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php%3Ft%3D366597&sa=X&ei=AywZTMWiI4L_8AbnqPiuDA&ved=0CBwQrAIoAzAB&usg=AFQjCNGluswlzxhI9-MREKDm_0rILncSLg")&#8206;  

These are 10.04 in particular:
[Blank  screen: *10.04*, ATI *Radeon 9550* - *Ubuntu*  Forums]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478004")
[[*ubuntu*]  *10.04* Not Installing - Ubuntu Forums]("http://www.google.com/url?q=http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php%3Fp%3D9469585&sa=X&ei=XSwZTLuuCYL78Aa075DPAw&ved=0CCAQrAIoADAB&usg=AFQjCNHaVPREG9Zjx8K720J2fNJgaXCY2w")&#8206;
[Blank  screen: *10.04*, ATI *Radeon 9550* - *Ubuntu*  Forums]("http://www.google.com/url?q=http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php%3Fp%3D9403660&sa=X&ei=XSwZTLuuCYL78Aa075DPAw&ved=0CCEQrAIoATAB&usg=AFQjCNETcfiAtrjX0zNwaOkaBxTUnOY2Nw")
[Download  driver *Radeon 9550* - 256Mo for Linux *Ubuntu 10.04*  (Lucid **..**]("http://drivers.mrjuan.com/download-4224-29-radeon-9550---256mo-linux-ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx.html")
[Your  ATI *Radeon* very slow on Xorg X server 1.3? | LinuxInsight]("http://www.linuxinsight.com/your-ati-radeon-very-slow-on-xorg-x-server-1.3.html")
[Ati  HD4890 driver problem. *Ubuntu 10.04*]("http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-hardware-18/ati-hd4890-driver-problem-ubuntu-10-04-a-805419/")
... and plenty more.

The problem is that these are not consolidated and have conflicting suggestions. Some of these are what I followed and made things worse! If I can't go anywhere from this point, am I dead-in-the-water?

I would like to start at the beginning, by reinstalling 10.04, but I do not know how to do that without destroying the other installations of Ubuntu. Additionally, I need to restore Windows that was damaged by the Ubuntu installation or fooling around. How do I proceed on any of these fronts?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-06-16
Well, from what I understood, you had problems first installing 10.04, and then booting it. None of the links you posted described either an installation or a boot problem with 10.04, and I don't see which one you could have followed and why. Boot freezes may be caused by faulty installation media, hence the suggestion to check its integrity.
In order to re-install 10.04 to the same partition, go with the manual/advanced partitioning option, select the the required partition and choose root as its mount point.
In order to deal with the Windows problem, you need to explain what the problem is.

---

### Post by edempco on 2010-06-16
I may have misunderstood when you said "Odd. I've googled 'ubuntu radeon 9550' and there aren't any recent  results" I thought you meant there wasn't anything out there. Here's one thread with the R9550 in it, but there has been no answer: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1468165&highlight=Lucid+r9550&page=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1468165&highlight=Lucid+r9550&page=4) From this point and many discussions about video cards, one thing leads to another and I began to investigate why my card was not being recognized. The rest of the links simply were attempts to answer why the card was not being recognized and if it was the cause of the freeze ... it has been a long time trying to solve this problem.

Thank you for your help regarding re-installation. I'm not savvy enough to identify which partition is which - I've looked at this several times. So, it seems this is a dead end for me, too.

I've already explained what both Windows and Ubuntu are currently doing - automatically rebooting. 

From this point, I guess I'll have to concentrate on getting Windows back. I'll pull out the original install disc and see if I can get it to repair the problem. 

Thanks again.

---

