---
title: "15.10 to 16.04 total DISASTER!"
date: 2016-04-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by MatsN on 2016-04-22
I tried to update today.:(

After 7 tries I gave up. ](*,)

Computer hanging, crashing. Can't even reboot. HARD reboot only!

Right now after 3 hours nothing happens at all.
[ATTACH=CONFIG]268530[/ATTACH]

My computer crashed several times trying to update.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]268531[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]268532[/ATTACH]


Whats going on here!!!

---

### Post by T.J. on 2016-04-22
I hope I don't sound arrogant or pompous, but it is my considered experience (after having used Ubuntu, patched Ubuntu, compiled code on Ubuntu, etc for a number of years) that you should ***never ***attempt to upgrade between versions of Ubuntu and should ***always*** do a clean install after backing up your existing data.

To make that easier, I use a separate home partition.

I'm not making fun of Ubuntu, but in spite of the fact they use Debian as base, Canonical is absolutely terrible at in-place upgrades. Yes, Debian does a better job at it, but that is not the issue.  We all have our strengths. 

I sincerely hope it works better for you.  I did a clean install of 16.04 this morning with no problems.

---

### Post by MatsN on 2016-04-22
Thanks for Your replay.
Making a backup... where and how...
I need at least 16 Gb which I don't have available...
Soo this, in my mind - this system is screwed...

---

### Post by T.J. on 2016-04-22
> **MatsN said:**
> Thanks for Your replay.

You're very welcome! =)

> Making a backup... where and how...
That varies by your means and amount of data, just as it does on Windows or anywhere else, so I can't give you advice without knowing more.

> I need at least 16 Gb which I don't have available...
=(

> Soo this, in my mind - this system is screwed...
Nonsense!  There is always a way, but I don't know what the situation is or what you have to work with.  What can you tell me about your setup?  For example, can you run the "df -h" command and post the results, or is the machine unbootable?

---

### Post by Habitual on 2016-04-22
> **MatsN said:**
> Thanks for Your replay.
Making a backup... where and how...
I need at least 16 Gb which I don't have available...
Soo this, in my mind - this system is screwed...
> **T.J. said:**
> Nonsense!  There is always a way, but I don't know  what the situation is or what you have to work with.  What can you tell  me about your setup?  For example, can you run the "df -h" command and  post the results, or is the machine unbootable?

If I may...
How big is your hard drive?
If it has 20G (yes, I 'saw' 16G) that you can utilize, you could reduce the size of the large partition and make
a new partition and format it... copy to that.

It's not easy, but it is do-able.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2016-04-22
Just to put a little bit of nuance in it, I ran upgrades 6.06&#8594;8.04&#8594;10.04&#8594;12.04&#8594;14.04; 10.04&#8594;10.10&#8594;11.04&#8594;11.10&#8594;12.04; 13.10&#8594;14.04; 14.10&#8594;15.04&#8594;15.10 and had never more than minor problems. So it varies. For some people it always works, for others it never works, I'm one of the former and you may be one of the latter. But I agree that in case of a broken upgrade the thing to do is a clean install. I plan to upgrade my 15.10 in a few days, but I have a 16.04 live usb at hand if needed. And I have backups, but I always have those.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-04-22
MatsN,

If you have important data, DO NOT do a fresh install. Instead, you will need to buy or borrow a 32 GB USB stick and another 8 GB. The 8 GB is to install and run a LiveUSB session, and the 32 GB is to take the important data off of your old drive.

Once you have those items, let us know and we can walk you through the steps you need to salvage your data.

It's too late for you, but for anyone else reading this thread, you ABSOLUTELY have to back up your data before upgrading. People should be regularly backing up anyway, but it is essential to do so before upgrading.

---

### Post by neutron3 on 2016-04-23
I agree T.J.  BUT..
Then why is the option there to do this??? :-)  This option should be blocked until there is a proven succes for this to work.

And to make things worse, what if a fresh install also fails in the same glorious way? (due to syslinux)
Always test first if a LIVEUSB works, but then still an install may fail.
We are now beta testing a final release that should 'just work'. Now this is not an easy thing, and it's also advisable to wait another month or so until the final release is tested by many more people. But that doesn't really help since many people already wait and thus it takes even longer...

I hope the next time there is a better (longer, or more thourough) beta test. Before it is final released. Not sure if this will ever work flawless, maybe Canonical should spend some brainpower on this Catch 22 situation?

Maybe there should be some kind of survey where people can just answer a few question and that shows an end result with Succes and Fail rates.  With brandnames / computer types / Ubuntu flavours so that problem devices, or problem flavours float to the top. Like dead fish in poisoned water.

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2016-04-23
Upgrading has been problematic for years - for some folks it goes well, others not so good.
I've hosed my system doing upgrades too.
The lesson I learned is to divide your hard drive into partitions like this:
/dev/sda1 = current Ubuntu OS install
/dev/sda2 = Swap
/dev/sda3 = /home
/dev/sda4 = previous Ubuntu OS install

Then, when a new release comes about, just install to the "previous Ubuntu OS install".
This way you can revert to your old OS if the new install fails or you don't like it.
Sometimes this though is not 100% as sometimes a new install will impact on some of your /home 
data configurations -- but at least its just a minor annoyance to fix.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-04-23
I would recommend doing a fresh installation of 16.04 and avoid all the trouble you might run into if your going to upgrade

---

### Post by Geoffrey_Arndt on 2016-04-23
I wonder how many Ubuntu users (especially new ones) take the time to read (10-15 minutes) about prepping for an online update?    Since 2003, I've done fresh and upgrade installs.    No major differences in outcomes if one understands the subtle differences between the two methods.    To give yourself the best chance of a smooth online upgrade . . . take the time to do these actions:

**Edit**:   I should have started this list with the most important:  Backup your system (either a data backup (Back-in-Time, etc.) OR a system image (Clonezilla, dd, etc.)

>   Make sure to edit your "Software Sources" (two or three methods to do this) . . . . . and remove any unofficial sources such as PPA's. 
(It's best just to have the default sources enabled that came with your install "back in the day" . .)

>   When changing sources, don't forget to "reload" the software database - - so the system checks for status.   Your current install _must be UPDATED_ with any and all updates (security, bug fixes, libs, etc.).

>   Make sure you have fast and reliable internet access.   If possible, a wired connection (even if using a laptop) is preferable.    If that's not doable - - only use a solid wireless connection (and not at a kiosk or pub-wifi).  

>   Enable the checkboxes in the installer to download updates and 3rd party software (sometimes makes installing "additional drivers" superfluous).   

>   STAY with your system until the update is completed.   Don't do any errands or other activity that takes you away from the PC for more than a couple minutes max.

>   Be sure you have a Live "buntu" dvd, cd, or flash-stick available of the upgraded iso (so a full re-install can be done if needed - - (after copying offline your DATA if or as needed).    The data matters, whereas programs and setup configs are relatively trivial to fix.

Anyway, that's my list.   The advantages of online updates are mainly that some sources of errors are removed (partitioning, grub, win-uefi, etc.).

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-04-23
> **Geoffrey_Arndt said:**
> ...take the time to do these actions...You didn't mention the most important of all... back up all of your critical data before starting anything. It's the single most important action that limits exposure and turns what could have been disaster into at most an inconvenience.

---

### Post by Geoffrey_Arndt on 2016-04-23
Yes, . . . agreed.   Oversight corrected.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-04-23
> **DuckHook said:**
> You didn't mention the most important of all... back up all of your critical data before starting anything. It's the single most important action that limits exposure and turns what could have been disaster into at most an inconvenience.

This is very true as long as you have a backup you can always get things back up and running again

---

### Post by T.J. on 2016-04-23
I agree wholeheartedly.  A backup is essential, but I believe we are past that point.  It doesn't solve Matsn's problem.  I'm sure that with all of our collective experience, we can find a solution for him/her.

Firstly, we need a readout of the drives, or he has to find an external drive so that we can find disk space to to help him save his precious data.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-04-23
> **T.J. said:**
> ...I believe we are past that point.  It doesn't solve Matsn's problem.  I'm sure that with all of our collective experience, we can find a solution for him/her.

Firstly, we need a readout of the drives, or he has to find an external drive so that we can find disk space to to help him save his precious data....already offered in post #7 above. It's now in the OP's court.

---

### Post by henrykyonza.1 on 2016-04-23
I've been running ubuntu off and on for 15 years. And yes.. Get a home partition (Which I never do but is silly of me) and fresh install..

Then live with the fact that most documentation is out of date for at least 6 months if anyone changed anything.

I can't wait for deb to be replaced with that new snap thing that I'm sure will make me want to cut my eyes out for a few years because it will have issues.

---

### Post by T.J. on 2016-04-24
> **henrykyonza.1 said:**
> I've been running ubuntu off and on for 15 years. And yes.. Get a home partition (Which I never do but is silly of me) and fresh install..

Then live with the fact that most documentation is out of date for at least 6 months if anyone changed anything.

I can't wait for deb to be replaced with that new snap thing that I'm sure will make me want to cut my eyes out for a few years because it will have issues.


This is really off topic.

Deb won't be replaced with Snap.  Snap will be used as a supplement, but Deb will still be used.

---

### Post by MatsN on 2016-04-30
Thank everybody for Your help in this issue.
BUT! Nothing solved my problem at all. After 6 days I tried everything, but nothing solved the problem.
Soo, goodbye Ubuntu, piece of crap!
How can I get rid of Startmenue crap since nothing is working any more... After several attempts to older versions.

Now, Ive tried everything for over a month. NOTHING WORKS!
Today I tried from DVD v16.04 and I cant even connect to my WiFi in testmode. However the internal Bluetooth is now working for some strange reason.
Is it time now to ditch Ubuntu to kingdom come....
Win 7 is still working on this machine.
How can I get rid of this Ubuntu crap from my computer and get back the partitions on the hardisk to my Win7?

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2016-06-01
Windows 7 was made in 2009, Ubuntu 16.04 is from 2015/16 and hasn't even got it's first "service pack" yet.

1.backup your data

2. boot from Windows repair disk and perform the "fix" of main boot record: [SIZE=2]https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/927392
[/SIZE]
3. then go to Windows disk manager and format ubuntu disk area into NTFS partition. or use 2rd party mini tool partition wizzard (or similar) to add the empty disk space to your windows partition.

you shouldn't do upgrade (or update) via WI-FI. wifi data transfer can get data packets lost which will means errors. 

bluetooth is likely working in what you call "test mode" because there is a new kernel and drivers are in kernel in linux (in windows they are installed separtelly).

---

