---
title: "8.04 to 8.10 lost upgrade sources"
date: 2010-05-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Stigmata13 on 2010-05-29
Ok... well I decided to upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10 (not planning on going any higher though, because of hardware issues with newer releases,) and after the upgrade, looking in software sources, it doesn't seem like there are any ppa's for 8.10 other than "ubuntu intrepid partner"
I looked around on google for a bit, but I can't really find out how to add the ppa's for intrepid I'm missing.
Can anyone direct me to a page with the ppa's I need?

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-05-29
Most if not all of Intrepid's PPAs are defunct now because it reached its End Of Life when Lucid was released.

---

### Post by sundays211 on 2010-05-29
try adding these ppa's
```
## EOL upgrade sources.list
# Required
deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ intrepid main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ intrepid-updates main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ intrepid-security main restricted universe multiverse

# Optional
#deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ intrepid-backports main restricted universe multiverse
#deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ intrepid-proposed main restricted universe multiverse
```

---

### Post by brian3 on 2010-05-29
hi i have using  linux for about 9 years, i have found the method is to download the iso,and install from new.

---

### Post by k3lt01 on 2010-05-29
As post #3 indicates Intrepid's repositories are now in "old-releases" as Intrepid has reached end of life. Hardy however still has another 10 or 11 months of support for the desktop version.

If you are intent on using Intrepid you will have to change the sources lists manually by opening gedit with sudo powers through the terminal.
```
gksudo gedit /ect/apt/sources.lists
```
Then when your in that change every instance of hardy to intrepid, and every instance of "archive.ubuntu.com" to "old-releases.ubuntu.com" save the file and close it. Next paste this into your terminal.
```
sudo apt-get update
```
and when that is done paste this and follow the instructions.
```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

---

### Post by k3lt01 on 2010-05-29
> **brian3 said:**
> hi i have using  linux for about 9 years, i have found the method is to download the iso,and install from new.I would normally agree with this but having had great difficulty doing this with my laptop from 9.10 to 10.04 I found that sometimes an internet upgrade is the only way to do it.

---

### Post by Stigmata13 on 2010-05-29
> **-humanaut- said:**
> Most if not all of Intrepid's PPAs are defunct now because it reached its End Of Life when Lucid was released.

Ah... thanks. I never really thought about that. *facepalm at self*

Sundays211, thanks, I'll give that a try.

I'd love to be using 10.04, but the fact that Ubuntu 9.10 breaks my proprietary drivers means (even worse than usual) flash, worse video playback, little/no gaming (as if you can already game a lot on Ubuntu already, lol)
I wish ATI would update their drivers. It really sucks being stuck 2 years in the past just because updating breaks your computer's performance.

---

