---
title: "20.04 not booting. GRUB2 unavailable. Boot repair not working."
date: 2020-06-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by maltangs on 2020-06-22
[COLOR=#1A1A1B]I  installed ubuntu 20.04 on an ASUS TUF FX705DT-DR7N8. No dual boot, just  ubuntu. It was working fine for awhile. Now it won't boot . BIOS menu  doesn't list ubuntu (or anything else) as  an option to boot from. I  can't access the grub2 menu, so I ran the boot repair tool after opening  a terminal window inside of "Try Ubuntu" off of a USB drive.  "Recommended Repair" wasn't an option. Here's the link for the summary  report offered from Boot Repair. Any help is appreciated:


[https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/9hS3kNcDCY/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/9hS3kNcDCY/)

[/COLOR]

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2020-06-22
*Thread moved to **New to Ubuntu for a more appropriate fit**.*

---

### Post by yancek on 2020-06-22
I don't know what you did but, you don't seem to have Ubuntu or any other OS installed.  sda1 doesn't appear to have anything on it, is that where you tried to install Ubuntu?  The second partition on that drive (sda2) is a windows filesystem.  THe efobootmgr output shows 2 entries, one for Ubuntu and one for windows but you do not have an EFI partition??  Your boot repair output only contains a small portion of what usually shows. Did you boot and try to install Ubuntu in UEFI mode?

---

### Post by maltangs on 2020-06-22
I installed ubuntu via usb iso. When i installed ubuntu, i chose to overwrite windows. It was working fine for about two weeks,and then it started messing up. Sometimes it wouldn't boot, and other times it would boot into ubuntu. Last night it stopped booting altogether.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-06-22
Did you have an NVMe drive that is now not shown at all?
Is another drive shown in drives in UEFI settings (not boot menu)?

---

