---
title: "11.10 gnome classic system menu"
date: 2011-12-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cbanakis on 2011-12-14
Probably been asked 1,000 times, but I cant find any threads.

Is it possible to get the system menu back on the top panel?

Used to be |Applications|Places|System|

Now its just |Applications|Places|

I assumed I could just remove the default applet, and add the same one used in 11.04, but it does not seem to exist.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-12-14
Not quite so simple in 11.10, but see the sticky thread at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859961](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859961) for all the possibilities and more info.

---

### Post by critin on 2011-12-14
I'm using the same version and I haven't found a way to add 'System' to the panel bar.  I believe though, that most things are found in Applications under 'System Tools', 'Other', and other links.  Menu can also be found in right top under your name.  You probably know all this already, but just in case.  :p

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2011-12-14
> **critin said:**
> I'm using the same version and I haven't found a way to add 'System' to the menu bar.  I believe though, that most things are found in Applications under 'System Tools', 'Other', and other links.  Menu can also be found in right top under your name.  You probably know all this already, but just in case.  :p

Yeah, I just want EVERYTHING to be back to normal :(

I already got everything else nearly perfect, but not the system tab.

I don't really understand why there is not an easy way to change it, I thought that customization was what Ubuntu was all about, but I guess that era has come to an end.

And so begins the era of "You'll use Unity, and you'll like it"...

---

### Post by critin on 2011-12-14
Actually though,  the 'System' title is the only thing that isn't added when you add Gnome Classic. (that I've noticed so far.)  It hasn't interfered with me finding anything.

---

