---
title: "10.10 Logs Me Out When Inactive?"
date: 2010-10-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mapes12 on 2010-10-17
After about 5 minutes of inactivity 10.10 automatically logs me off. I have to log in again from the main login screen and when I do FF has the "how embarising" message as it cannot restore my last session.

I've just upgraded from 10.04 which didn't do this. Any ideas on how to fix this please?

Mark

---

### Post by Verbeck on 2010-10-17
Have you tried looking at system>preferences>power management ?

---

### Post by ekcutvncmskslcdlcfjt on 2010-10-17
You might also check System>Preferences>Screensaver, it activates after 5 mins by default.

---

### Post by davetelex on 2010-10-20
i have this same exact problem and it is really annoying, the only way i stop it is by turning the screensaver off, but then i cant set the computer to automatically lock which was the main reason i used this in the past. under closer observation i noticed that after the idle time is reached the screen turns a few colors before resetting to the login screen. i have had some bad problems with my graphics card recently so im betting on the x server resetting when it cant start the screen saver. does this sound about right? and does anyone know of a way to stop this from happening and still have the screen lock after 5 mins of inactivity?

---

### Post by soldier1st on 2010-10-22
i have a user with a similar problem though only when the screensaver launches automatically after xxx ammount of time but the issue was not present in Ubuntu 10.04. i think the graphics card is the problem.

---

