---
title: "Mount of root filesystem failed..."
date: 2010-02-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Kiting Illini on 2010-02-23
After a pretty easy Karmic/Win7 dual boot install I am suddenly having a problem - when I try to boot I get :
 
"Mount of root filesystem failed. A manteinance shell will now be started. Control-D will terminate this shell and reboot" 
 
or something to that effect.
 
It is difficult to isolate changes as in the last 24 hours, I have reloaded/reinstalled both the ATI graphics driver and all of the sound drivers. Last evening I did a system update as part of a tutorial. I had just set up a new user, and had logged off in order to sign is as the new user. The display went a little crazed, trying and failing to display the b/w login screen. I powered down, and now when I try to boot, I get:
 
"Mount of root filesystem failed.... 
 
Grub still appears to work, but trying to boot in recovery mode or last known-good configuration both are ineffective. The Win7 side of the house still seems to work fine, and I have no indication of HW failure.
 
The 'maintenance shell' seems to work ok, but if I try to mount the Ubuntu partition as root, it tells me that it is already mounted. I ran 'fsck' and it came up clean.
 
I'm thinking the maintenance shell is a good thing, but I'm too new to Linux to know what to do with it. Thinking that it had something to do with setting up the new user account I tried to 'deluser', but I get error messages telling me that the /etc files can't be locked. 
 
Suggestions? I'd just as soon not have to reinstall from scratch. Any help will be most appreciated.

---

### Post by undecim on 2010-02-23
Can you post the output of each of these commands? ```
fdisk -l
mount
```

and if the mount command shows the root filesystem mounted read only (ro)
```
ls -l /dev/disk/by-uuid
cat /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by Kiting Illini on 2010-02-23
Thanks for the interest: this has taken a while because apparently everything is mounted read only, so I'm transcribing this from hand copied notes - BEWARE HERE THERE BE TYPOS:
 
[COLOR=red]fdisk - l results in:[/COLOR]
 
Disk /dev/sda 320.1 GB 320872933376 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinders
Units=cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier 0xa198f61c
 
Device Boot Start End Blocks Id System
/dev/sda1 1 26 263776 7 HPFS/NTFS
 
Partition does not end on a cylider boundary.
 
/dev/sda2 26 19541 156756992 7 HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3 * 19542 23457 31455270 83 Linux
/dev/sda4 23458 38913 124150320 7 HPFS/NTFS
 
 
[COLOR=red]mount results in:[/COLOR]
 
/dev/sda3/ on / type ext4 (rw, errors=remount -ro)
proc on / proc type proc (rw)
none on /sys type sysfs (rw, noexec, nosuid, nodev)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw, mode = 0755)
none on /dev/pts type devpts (rw, noexec, nosuid, gid=5, mode=0620)
none on /dev/shr type tempfs (rw, nosuid, nodev)
none on /var/run type tmpfs (rw, nosuid, mode=0755)
none on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw, noexec, nosuid, nodev)
none on /lib/inst/rw type tmpfs (rw, nosuid, mode=0755)
binfmt_misc on proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw, noexec, nosuid, nodev)
 
[COLOR=red]ls -l /dev/disk/by-uuid results in:[/COLOR]
 
total 0
lrwxrwxrwx l root root 10 Feb 23 13:55 35401A2A0121C31A -->../../sda4
lrwxrwxrwx l root root 10 Feb 23 13:55 382586B82582F9C --> ../../sda2
lrwxrwxrwx l root root 10 Feb 23 13:55 789EE30F9EE2C4AA --> ../../sda1
lrwxrwxrwx l root root 10 Feb 23 13:55 c9178e06-a48b-47a9-a148-56fcd6656ac7 --> sda3
 
[COLOR=red]and finally, cat /etc/fstab results in[/COLOR]
 
# /etc/fstab: static file system information
#
# -- This file has been automatically generated by ntfs-config --
# <file system> <mount point> <type> <option> <dump> <pass>
proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3:
UUID=c9178e06-a48b-47a9-a148-50fcd6656ac7 /ext4 errors=remount -ro 0 1
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 rdf iso9660 user, noauto, exec, ntfs 0 0
/dev/sda4 /media/Storage ntfs_3c, defaults, locale=en_US, UTF-8, 0 0
 
Hope that gives you someting to go on..
 
Thanks again.

---

### Post by undecim on 2010-02-23
> **Kiting Illini said:**
> Thanks for the interest: this has taken a while because apparently everything is mounted read only, so I'm transcribing this from hand copied notes

Sorry about that... It never really crossed my mind that you can't copy and paste the output of those commands, otherwise I would have simplified them with grep or awk.

According to the output of mount, your root filesystem is already mounted writable. Everything looks fine here.

Only other problem I can think of that would cause this is your grub configuration. If you hold down shift as your computer boots (right after you see the screen with your motherboard/bios manufacturer's logo), you should get the grub menu. Highlight the first option and press "e", and somewhere on your screen you should see ```
linux   /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-19-generic root=UUID=c9178e06-a48b-47a9-a148-56fcd6656ac7 ro   splash quiet
``` Does this "linux" line differ from yours at all?

---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-02-23
when you get to that screen, press control D
type in
```

fsck -y

```
Its the legandary fsck bug everyone is still arguing about.

---

### Post by Kiting Illini on 2010-02-23
undecim - yes, mine looks exactly like that.
 
carlee - I haven't heard the arguments but if it gers me out of re-installing, I'll give it a shot.

---

### Post by Kiting Illini on 2010-02-23
Carlee - I guess it can't be that easy... fsck ran without error, but the problem remains.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-02-23
> **Kiting Illini said:**
> undecim - yes, mine looks exactly like that.
 
carlee - I haven't heard the arguments but if it gers me out of re-installing, I'll give it a shot.
well, I cant find the bug right now, but it had to to with the fact that the fsck disk checking was run with the -a -p flags instead of the -y flag.
This made users who had improperly shut down their computers or had a HD problem have to manually run it...

---

### Post by Kiting Illini on 2010-02-24
I'm really thinking that the problem here is post h/w boot. The machine makes it all the way to the splash? screen (the b&w Ubuntu logo), and it hesitates, and just when you expect it to put up the login menu - - crash.
 
Coupled with the fact that almost the the last thing I did before the failure was to add a new user, I'm wondering if whatever keeps track of users, passwords, and such got scrambled.
 
Deep in my dim memory, I seem to think that there is a backup user profile somewhere, and that there is a way to use it to recover? I may be wrong about that... it has been a very long time since I messed with teh nuts and bolts of these things.
 
I'm going to puzzle on it for the rest of the day, and then I think I might just give up and re-install. 
 
Both of you - thanks for the assist!

---

### Post by Kiting Illini on 2010-02-25
A clue maybe...

I was following up some pointers from other threads last night and did

```
dmesg | more
```

I don't know how significant it might be,  but at the end of the file there are two lines about:

"devpts called with bogus options"

(That may not be exactly right - I am away from the machine right now and can't check)

Does that suggest anything?  I know I could 'resolve this with a re-install....but I would much rather SOLVE it, if you know what I mean,

---

