---
title: "10.04LTS Version Comparison"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ITgreybeard on 2010-05-05
Could anyone point me to a feature comparison between the Desktop and Server versions of 10.04LTS? I am an old Unix hand, and would like to dip my toe in the Ubuntu waters by putting together a system that includes a web server, ftp server, development and desktop tools. 

I've not been successful in locating one online as yet, and I'd just rather not have to find out the differences by brute force post-installation.

Nonetheless, if I assume that neither version is a superset of the other, is it best to start with the server as the base package and add software? Is there a straightforward procedure to add packages from one into the post-installation environment of the other?

Obliged.

---

### Post by ubunterooster on 2010-05-05
The only difference is the preinstalled packages. Server has more pakages but (i think ) not the gui that regular Ubuntu does.

---

### Post by ITgreybeard on 2010-05-05
Is there a resource to determine what those different packages might be?

---

### Post by dmaxel on 2010-05-06
As far as I'm aware of, all packages that Ubuntu offers in it's repositories are available in both the server and desktop editions. The sources list should be identical on both. You could easily build a server with both server and desktop editions, just I think the server edition has an optimized kernel and doesn't come with a GUI (by default). I haven't been exposed to many GUI tools for server applications (none actually except maybe samba), so I don't know how it looks on that end, but just get used to doing stuff with the CLI, and you're good to go.

---

