---
title: "10.04LTS screen garbled and hangs"
date: 2010-05-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jesrani on 2010-05-12
Hello, I have been using Ubuntu 8.04LTS in a network of XP computers mainly for backup purpose. Now I have installed 10.04LTS fresh on another HDD and got everything to work as required.
My machine is P4 2.26GHz with 512Mb Memory. Once every few days, the screen suddenly becomes garbled and the computer hangs. This does not happen on the 8.04LTS. can anyone tell me the reason for this. I need to solve this to be able to use 10.04LTS.

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-05-13
At what point does it become "garbled"? If it's when you boot just ctrl+alt+f1 login then startx

---

### Post by jesrani on 2010-05-13
> **-humanaut- said:**
> At what point does it become "garbled"? If it's when you boot just ctrl+alt+f1 login then startx

It just seems to be random. Does not happen at start but while working, sometimes when I have 3-4 windows open. But not always. I have the CPU monitor on and yesterday when I was installing new software and the CPU went upto 100% and memory also almost 100% nothing happened. Today suddenly for no reason it hung up. Is 10.04LTS not compatible with my old hardware??

---

### Post by Catharsis on 2010-05-13
What graphics card do you have?
```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

### Post by jesrani on 2010-05-13
> **Catharsis said:**
> What graphics card do you have?
```
lspci | grep VGA
```

The result is :
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 03)

I am trying "Workaround A" from
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes)
Hope this works.

If there are any more suggestions, please let me know.

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-05-13
The Intel graphics is the problem. I don't use intel graphics (i use nvidia) but I heard there was an update already pushed upstream try sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade maybe enable proposed updates It might be sitting there I had to enable backports & proposed updates to get plymouth working with nvidia.

---

