---
title: "8.04 hardy, changing resolution at startup"
date: 2010-02-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by DirtyDarin on 2010-02-17
I have an old installation of 8.04, which I'm trying to use to test my ati graphics card (which seems to have issues with the windows driver, I think)


Anyways, long story short, I installed the linux ati driver, and when I did, it changed my resolution to an unsupported range.  I cannot see the GUI beyond the initial black ubuntu loading screen, (with the orange loading bar)


I've googled it here and there, and so far I've read that I need to use the "xrandr -s (xRes)x(yRes)" command, and every time I do, it says something along the lines of "graphics not available" or something along those lines.  So I figured, maybe I have to initialize the GUI with a command first, so I used the "sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start" command, prior, but that doesn't seem to work either.

I also looked up the xorg.conf file, but it seems to be empty.  (The text editor always creates a new file, even when I'm in the correct directory)


How can I change my resolution back to something suitable, before logging via the GUI?  It's gotta be some kind of simple terminal command, but I just can't seem to find it anywhere.

---

### Post by DirtyDarin on 2010-02-18
Seriously, anyone?

---

### Post by DirtyDarin on 2010-02-18
No one?  Come on... I thought this, of all things, would be a quick fix.  Yet google gives me nothing, and so far, I've been completely ignored.  I'm getting desperate here.

---

### Post by DirtyDarin on 2010-02-19
bump

---

### Post by halitech on 2010-02-19
I had the same problem when I installed the ATI driver with my lcd monitor. What I did was hit ALT + CTRL + F2 to get the terminal mode. Log in and run
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
then I added 
> Modes       "1024x768"" 1400x1050"
to the Section "Screen"
Then reboot and it should work for you

---

### Post by DirtyDarin on 2010-02-19
i did try that, but it seems that my xorg.conf file is empty/nonexistent.  When I browsed through the directories, I saw it, but each nano attempt seemed to just create a new file.  I'm not exactly sure why, or how, even.

---

### Post by halitech on 2010-02-19
if your xorg.conf file is empty then you haven't installed the ati driver properly. Are you making sure that you are going to /etc/X11/xorg.conf and not /etc/x11/xorg.conf?  What actual video card do you have installed?

---

### Post by DirtyDarin on 2010-02-19
yes it was "X11"


Now you might be right on the installation not being proper.  I'm not exactly sure if it was ATI's actual proprietary driver, because I distinctly remember downloading -that- and trying to unpackage it, and for some reason or another, there was an error when I tried to unpack.  But, on the upper toolbar there was an update feature that prompted me if I wanted to install the linux ATI driver. I very much so obliged.  Problem is, it asked me to restart to complete installation... and when I did, I couldn't log back into gnome considering I couldn't see anything due to the resolution issue, therefore, I have yet to log back into gnome. Thusly, the incomplete installation.

I'm running a Radeon all-in-wonder x800GT.  And by the way, thank you so much for the responses.

---

### Post by halitech on 2010-02-20
You could try the download from here and note the exact error  

[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.17.3.6&product2=2.4.1.3.17.3.7&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.17.3.6&product2=2.4.1.3.17.3.7&lang=English)

If you used the Ubuntu driver, I'm not sure exactly what it does with the driver info or where it puts the settings so that could be why you are coming up with blank xorg.conf files.

---

