---
title: "11.04 ~ Did A Slipped Finger Mess up the Net?"
date: 2011-07-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-07-02
_Symptom_

Installation of 11.04 Natty on Sony VGN-S3 goes fine.
Drivers install (after not catching net) and says it's connected and working. However pressing Firefox button shows White Screen only.

I'd previously upgraded from 10.10, and it worked fine.

Next I installed OpenSuse alongside. However I just didn't have the time or inclination to do things that way (a lot of things I couldn't get working).

So as it worked from the Upgrade I did a clean install. I needed to put in the wire for this process and it got stuff from the net while instaling.
Got the radio, but then only White Screen.

My on thought was that during the installation process my hand was paining, and I adjusted the hand, which slipped and popped out the CD.
I pushed it back in again and it carried on.

Could my slip have caused this error?
Or is there some other possibility?

The same symptom occurred on radio, on also on inserting the wire.


John

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-07-02
Let's see what you have. Open a terminal if you would and issue the command ```
ifconfig
``` and copy and post the results.

---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-07-02
> **jtarin said:**
> Let's see what you have. Open a terminal if you would and issue the command ```
ifconfig
``` and copy and post the results.

Thank you.

Unfortunately, everything I select is now coming up with White Screen, so I can't get at the terminal.
The LibreOffice button is coming up with a ghostly launcher, then there's yet another of those WhiteScreens.

Is there a thing like Safe Mode I can boot into?

Regards

John

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-07-02
Ctrl + Alt + F1-F6 will get you a virtual terminal to login into and run the command. Ctrl + Alt + F7 will return you to GDM.

---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-07-03
> **jtarin said:**
> Ctrl + Alt + F1-F6 will get you a virtual terminal to login into and run the command. Ctrl + Alt + F7 will return you to GDM.

Thank you.
I am anticipating, as I need to arrange for caregiver to change the machine for me to the one that's not working properly.

OK, so I get into the termina; via ctrl-alt F2 and type in

ifconfig

Now when I get there, what's the best way for me to capture the result, and to bring it back to here? (I'm assuming it will be lengthy).

Regards

John

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-07-03
In the terminal issue the command ```
cd Desktop
```this will place your terminal location on the desktop. Now we will issue the command```
ifconfig > ifconfig.txt
```this will execute the command we need and redirect it to a text file, which you will find on your Desktop.

---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-07-04
> **jtarin said:**
> In the terminal issue the command ```
cd Desktop
```this will place your terminal location on the desktop. Now we will issue the command```
ifconfig > ifconfig.txt
```this will execute the command we need and redirect it to a text file, which you will find on your Desktop.

It says:

> eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:01:4a:21:d7:6d  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:0e:35:a2:35:6a  
          inet addr:192.168.1.107  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::20e:35ff:fea2:356a/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:197 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:97 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:58614 (58.6 KB)  TX bytes:14349 (14.3 KB)
          Interrupt:22 Base address:0x2000 Memory:b0007000-b0007fff 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:12 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:12 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:720 (720.0 B)  TX bytes:720 (720.0 B)


Regards

John

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-07-04
Looks as if you have two ethernet cards....Yes or No?

---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-07-04
Yes jtarin, two indeed.
One socket for the modem, one which takes the broadband cable.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-07-04
Hi, it looks like to me that eth1 is active and should be working. Have you checked your internet broswer to make sure it is not in off line mode.

---

### Post by nerdy_kid on 2011-07-04
try logging into Ubuntu Classic with no effects from the session menu at login to get rid of the white screens.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-07-04
> **Andavane said:**
> Yes jtarin, two indeed.
One socket for the modem, one which takes the broadband cable.As wildmanne39 says "eth1" is active and has an IP. Are you using Network Manager to make your connection? Then you will probably need to check it's configuration to ensure it is using "eth1" and not "eth0". You say "broadband cable".....DSL?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-07-04
> **Andavane said:**
> Thank you.

Unfortunately, everything I select is now coming up with White Screen, so I can't get at the terminal.
The LibreOffice button is coming up with a ghostly launcher, then there's yet another of those WhiteScreens.

Is there a thing like Safe Mode I can boot into?

Regards

JohnHi, the only time I had that problem I could resize the window and make it small then I could see what was in that window. The cause of the problem was my nvidia driver, if you have a nvidia card and are using the most recent driver that could be your problem with the white windows also.

---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-07-06
> **jtarin said:**
> As wildmanne39 says "eth1" is active and has an IP. Are you using Network Manager to make your connection? Then you will probably need to check it's configuration to ensure it is using "eth1" and not "eth0". You say "broadband cable".....DSL?
Note sure, mate. Our connection is ADSL.
Re ur other questions: It's not the browser & I'm not in offline mode.

> **nerdy_kid said:**
> try logging into Ubuntu Classic with no effects from the session menu at login to get rid of the white screens.
Yes mate did that, and it all looks fine.

I still have the feeling that this has happened because I accidentally popped out the CD during installation*. I'm now off to update it and then see how it is.

Rgds, john

*in view of the fact that it was all fine on this machine when I followed the upgrade path,

---

### Post by jtarin on 2011-07-06
> **Andavane said:**
> Note sure, mate. Our connection is ADSL.Same thing.

> **Andavane said:**
> I still have the feeling that this has happened because I accidentally popped out the CD during installation*. Sacrilege...that's what it is!!!!:lolflag:

---

### Post by Andavane on 2011-07-06
> **jtarin said:**
> Same thing.

 Sacrilege...that's what it is!!!!:lolflag:

:oops:

---

