---
title: "10.04 Upgrade made Windows Vista Partition Disappear"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lidmith on 2010-04-30
Hello. I have read through the forums on this, but none of the similar threads I saw seemed to apply or work for me.

What happened was, last night, I upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04, and I installed a new grub when prompted to. I think I was a bit uncareful, but I selected all the drives listed to apply grub to, and proceeded with the install. Now, when I boot up, my Vista option isn't listed, but my Windows Recovery option is. However, when I select that option, the screen goes blank, and it then goes back to the boot selection screen. 

I have tried the following, in order:

Inserting the windows dvd, entering the command line, and using Bootrec.exe /fixmbr

This didn't seem to do the trick, so I tried reverting to an earlier grub, as some post suggested, and then followed the instructions after that. This led to there being no bootup options, and only loading Ubuntu 10.04. 

I tried using 

sudo fdisk -l  

Which another post suggested, but the output was:

/dev/sda1               1           7       56196   de  Dell Utility
/dev/sda2               8        1313    10485760    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3   *        1313       20656   155375616    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda4           20657       38913   146649352+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5           20657       38166   140649043+  83  Linux
/dev/sda6           38167       38913     6000246   82  Linux swap / Solaris

None of which appears to be the windows partition. 

I can, if need be, wipe this all out and do fresh installs of windows and linux, but if there's a quick fix to this issue, I would be happier to do that instead. 

Also, sorry if this was addressed elsewhere. From what I read, parts of my issue were, but the overall topic was not.

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-04-30
Try this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1465848](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1465848)


Scroll down to oldfred's post. This is for Windows 7 but should work for you. If not, that link I posted (neosmart...) has repair info.

---

### Post by lanzen-UK on 2010-04-30
This happened to me a few minutes ago!

I dual boot Windows 7 and Ubuntu. After upgrading, I had a menu as I would expect, but selecting Windows 7 gave me a flashing cursor and nothing more.

But here is the (simple) fix that worked for me. Its easy and takes a couple of minutes...

1: Open up a terminal in Ubuntu

2: Enter sudo apt-get install testdisk

3: sudo testdisk

*You'll now have a series of screens appear. Select these options EXACTLY as shown...*

No Log [enter]

*Choose the hard drive where your Windows resides*

Proceed

intel

advanced

*Choose the Windows boot partition*

boot

BackupBS

Y and confirm

Quit/Quit/Quit/Quit out of testdisk

Now restart

Go into Windows, then choose restart to get the Grub menu back and start Ubuntu

Open the terminal again

sudo update-grub

exit

OK, it should work fine now. Good luck!

*My thanks to bootinfoscript for this run through!*

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-04-30
Thanks lanzen-UK. That fix was from meierfra who is very good at fixing problems. Here is a link to his site: [http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector)

---

### Post by nash black on 2010-04-30
Oh man thank you... This works for XP, too!.. not really a surprise, but it does.

---

### Post by lidmith on 2010-05-01
Hey guys, thanks for the replies.   BCBC, I tried your link,  

[http://neosmart.net/wiki/display/EBCD/Recovering+the+Vista+Bootloader+from+the+DVD](http://neosmart.net/wiki/display/EBCD/Recovering+the+Vista+Bootloader+from+the+DVD)

But steps 1-3 didn't work for me. I may have messed it up though.    

Ianzen-UK, I tried your steps, but the testdisk never showed the BackupBS option. Instead it had org.bs and rebuild.bs.   I tried those, but it didn't end up working out.    

Eventually I decided to reformat my HD, and reinstall both. I installed windows, then ubuntu, after shrinking the windows partition. Unfortunately, the same thing happened (windows disappeared from the option list).   I read some more forum posts, and happened across a link to this site:   

[http://www.sevenforums.com/tutorials/20864-mbr-restore-windows-7-master-boot-record.html](http://www.sevenforums.com/tutorials/20864-mbr-restore-windows-7-master-boot-record.html) 

After following the steps on that How-to, I am able to log into windows again, though the option listed is "Windows Recovery" something...  If you have vista, and my exact problem, this may work for you too, but if not, I'd listen to the others on this forum. (btw, the how-to was for windows 7, but it worked for me anyways)

---

