---
title: "8.10 wireless -out-of-the box???"
date: 2009-03-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by snout71 on 2009-03-21
Have recently installed ubuntu
and for the life of me i cannot configure my wireless card or my belkin adapter to get internet connection

can anyone recommend an out-of-the-box adapter/card that will be automatically configured?

thanks in advance

---

### Post by ptn107 on 2009-03-21
What type of Belkin adapter do you have.  I'm using the Belkin Wireless G Adapter (F5D7050) which works right out.

---

### Post by ivanvajar on 2009-03-21
Did you try to install it with ndiswraper?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-03-21
I also have a Belkin F5D7050 version 4 that works "right out of the box".  However, I have seen references to the F5D7050 that didn't work out-of-box, so I have to assume there is a difference in each version.

So, when you installed Ubuntu, did you have the adapter plugged in to a USB port?

Either way around, if you have no wireless networks showing when you click on the network manager icon on the top bar, and if you have roaming mode enabled in system/administration/network wireless, then you should probably try ndiswrapper.

There are MANY posts here for using ndiswrapper, but I can give you step-by-step if you need them.  The first thing you need is the Windows XP (not Vista) driver for the device.  If you don't have it you can probably download it from Belkin.  If it's an exe or a zip file, you will need to extract from it the .inf and .sys files.  For now, just place the .inf and .sys files on your Desktop.

If you need help, please post back and I'll walk you through it.

Dave :)

---

### Post by snout71 on 2009-03-23
aha

i dont know how but whilst following threads trying to get my Broadcom BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless card to work

i managed to install some drivers for my USB belkin stick!

at least i now have internet connection. my built in card still doesnt work, it did on windows before i got rid of it for ubuntu

was amazed at how easily the add/remove program works

will your walk through possibly rectify the problem i have with the wireless card? as i use my usb stick for my laptop?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-03-23
I recently built a computer for a friend running Vista. His computer has a Netgear WG111 USB wireless adapter, and it worked out-of-the-box on Ubuntu.

I didn't pay attention to what chipset it is. But when Jaunty is released you won't be able to go too far wrong with an Atheros chipset - they should go pretty much out-of-the-box and the drivers are maintained by both the vendor and the kernel developers.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-03-23
> **snout71 said:**
> aha

i dont know how but whilst following threads trying to get my Broadcom BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless card to work

i managed to install some drivers for my USB belkin stick!

at least i now have internet connection. my built in card still doesnt work, it did on windows before i got rid of it for ubuntu

was amazed at how easily the add/remove program works

will your walk through possibly rectify the problem i have with the wireless card? as i use my usb stick for my laptop?

If you have your wireless Windows drivers (the .inf and .sys files) on your desktop, this is what you need to do.  Keep in mind that where I show xxxxxx you need to replace it with the name of your .inf file.

- be sure you have ndiswrapper and it's utilities installed (you can find these on the LiveCD at /main/pool/n/ndiswrapper or if you have internet access (wired or through another adapter) just install them from synaptic package manager

- open a terminal window (applications/accessories/terminal) and log in using your normal username and password.

- type:

cd Desktop <press enter>

- type:

sudo ndiswrapper -l <press enter> (that's a lower case "L" for "List).  This will show any drivers or failed attempts at loading drivers that ndiswrapper knows about.

If anything shows from the above, you must remove them one at a time until nothing is returned:

sudo ndiswrapper -e <the driver name that shows> <press enter>

Once nothing is returned you can continue.

- type:

sudo ndiswrapper -i xxxxxx.inf <press return> That's a lower case "I".

sudo depmod -a <press enter>

sudo ndiswrapper -m <press enter>

sudo modprobe ndiswrapper <press enter>

sudo gedit /etc/modules

scroll to the end of the file and add a newline with just the following in it:

ndiswrapper

save the file and exit

sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist

scroll to the end of the file and add a newline with just the following in it:

blacklist b43

save the file and exit

Now just REBOOT.

After rebooting, check network manager to see if wireless networks show - if so, the driver is working. (For you with the second card working, remove it before you reboot).

Dave :)

---

### Post by SeePU on 2009-04-19
> **snout71 said:**
> aha

i dont know how but whilst following threads trying to get my Broadcom BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless card to work

i managed to install some drivers for my USB belkin stick!

at least i now have internet connection. my built in card still doesnt work, it did on windows before i got rid of it for ubuntu

was amazed at how easily the add/remove program works

will your walk through possibly rectify the problem i have with the wireless card? as i use my usb stick for my laptop?
snout71, I was going to try my built-in miniPCI wireless card, the Broadcom BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g card (same as yours) in Kubuntu or Mint 6 KDE.  I think it could be a combo of drivers/firmware problem.  Not sure, though.   I had more luck using WPA than WEP though.

Which encryption are you trying to use?  

Did you try to use:

apt-get install b43-fwcutter

?

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2009-04-19
Official Ubuntu ndiswrapper documentation:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper)

Also see automated ndiswrapper (still experimental)
[https://launchpad.net/auto-ndiswrapper](https://launchpad.net/auto-ndiswrapper)

---

### Post by SeePU on 2009-04-19
> **Paddy Landau said:**
> Official Ubuntu ndiswrapper documentation:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper)

Also see automated ndiswrapper (still experimental)
[https://launchpad.net/auto-ndiswrapper](https://launchpad.net/auto-ndiswrapper)
You shouldn't need the ndiswrapper for the BCM4318 chipset anymore as the firmware (so just use:  apt-get install b43-fwcutter) is supposed to be in the kernel.

The only caveat, it seems, is that the included drivers have been said to not be very effective.  In other words, connections may be unstable and that the overall connection is more stable when using ndiswrapper.   I would rather not use that, though.   

If ndiswrapper is still needed for this chipset, I am going to try a new wireless card.   What about Intel 2200bg or 2915abg?   Or even Atheros?

---

### Post by clive littlewood on 2009-04-19
Hi

My advice would be to wait a few days and install Jaunty.

My wifes laptop has never worked out of the box because of the dreaded Atheros Card.

With Jaunty it worked straight away no problems.      :D

Hope this helps

Clive

---

