---
title: "....I am an epic failure.... how do I install new programs on Ubuntu..."
date: 2008-07-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by epicbattle on 2008-07-07
I am trying to install things like flash, AIM, or other little programs, but I can't seem to install these programs so they work. I know that's pathetic, but I must be overlooking something very simple and I don't know what that is. 

When I download, I usually get it as a tgz or a tar.gz format. I try to extract the file, but the extraction doesn't seem to do anything. Any links that you might be able to help a noob with these silly issues?

Thanks.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2008-07-07
This will help-

[http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/](http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/)

---

### Post by dominiquec on 2008-07-07
Click on System->Administration->Synaptic.  Almost everything you need is there.

---

### Post by lisati on 2008-07-07
Also check out **Applications**->**Add/Remove programs** - in some ways less daunting to a new user than  **System**->**Administration**->**Synaptic **-

---

### Post by Bloch on 2008-07-07
Might I add that you will come across a lot of instructions for "linux" on the web. It's best to stick to ubuntu guidelines and tips - there are enough of them.

Almost everything is in the Add/Remove programs menu. It stores a list of all the software and only downloads it when you choose something. This is called "the repository" (or the repositories, as there is the core ubuntu one plus community ones, etc)

You might find programs in other places - maybe newer versions or non-free software. For example my go-playing glgo program.  The installation files will be in the form of a debian package - that is, a file ending .deb
 Only install .deb files that mention they have been made for ubuntu. (otherwise they might not work)

---

### Post by billgoldberg on 2008-07-07
Since you're new, I know you are going to have problems.

So might I suggest you take a look at the "install codecs in ubuntu" and "guide to customizing ubuntu".

They might come in handy.

*(Oh, flash is also in the codecs link)*

---

### Post by rogier.de.groot on 2008-07-07
Those .tar.gz, .tar.bz2 or .tgz files are usually *source code* archives not  runnable binaries / executables. Getting them compiled is not something I'd recommend for a new user.
Usually it's better to use the Add/Remove softeware tool, or synaptic instead to get pre-compiled executables installed. Or maybe ubuntu and version specific .deb installation files, for example VirtualBox comes as a loose .deb file (the commercial version anyway).
If you have to build from source, it involves installing development tools (there's some handy meta-package for that, don't remember the name though), running the "configure" script, usually with options and then invoking "make". Don't try unless you know what you're doing.
The other format for installable packages I've seen is .sh (shell script file), for example NetBeans IDE comes like this. Open up a command prompt and say "sudo sh netbeans-yaddayadda.sh" to run the installer.

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2008-07-07
should you not find what you need in the repositories you can also try [http://www.getdeb.net/](http://www.getdeb.net/).

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-07-07
> flash, AIM, or other little programs

For AIM, use Pidgin.  It is already installed: Appllications > Internet > Pidgin.  The you can set up AIM, and other ims that you have.

---

### Post by meindian523 on 2008-07-07
> **rogier.de.groot said:**
> Those .tar.gz, .tar.bz2 or .tgz files are usually *source code* archives not  runnable binaries / executables. Getting them compiled is not something I'd recommend for a new user.

If you have to build from source, it involves installing development tools (there's some handy meta-package for that, don't remember the name though), running the "configure" script, usually with options and then invoking "make". Don't try unless you know what you're doing.

"The handy meta-package of development tools" is called build-essential.
+1 to both the paragraphs above.

---

### Post by ET! on 2008-07-07
you might also use apt-get install to install from terminal

---

