---
title: "9.10"
date: 2010-01-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by 289531.EXE on 2010-01-10
Whats up with 9.10? I have 2 HD's. 1 had 9.04 and I did an upgrade through the update manager the second HD i did a 'fresh' install from th cd. the second hard drive looks a lot more "grown-up"  than 9.04 but it seems to have some problems (or i just don't know what I'm doing). I tried installing Java on the second HD and now, i can't access the synaptic or update manager. I keep getting  an error message about how dpkg is temporarily unavailable. I thought a restart would help but it didnt' and all i have is the red "stop" sign by the wireless bars.

I was thinking of rebooting the laptop again to start from scratch. If  I do, what codes should I install for optimum performance? The important basics for internet plugins and all that.

OR

I was thinking of rebooting  the HD from 9.10 back to 9.04.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by tom.swartz07 on 2010-01-10
> **289531.EXE said:**
> Whats up with 9.10? I have 2 HD's. 1 had 9.04 and I did an upgrade through the update manager the second HD i did a 'fresh' install from th cd. the second hard drive looks a lot more "grown-up"  than 9.04 but it seems to have some problems (or i just don't know what I'm doing). I tried installing Java on the second HD and now, i can't access the synaptic or update manager. I keep getting  an error message about how dpkg is temporarily unavailable. I thought a restart would help but it didnt' and all i have is the red "stop" sign by the wireless bars.

I was thinking of rebooting the laptop again to start from scratch. If  I do, what codes should I install for optimum performance? The important basics for internet plugins and all that.

OR

I was thinking of rebooting  the HD from 9.10 back to 9.04.

Any suggestions?

See if you could update your computer. You might have to physically plug it into an ethernet port, rather than just wireless...

Usually fresh installs need updates. 

The best command to get everything up to speed is ```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```

That'll install flash, java, Windows fonts, pretty much everything you need in a hurry.

Check the links in my signature for help with some other little problems you might hit too.

Hope this helps!

---

