---
title: "8.1 update, reboot, then hangs at syslinux boot:"
date: 2009-04-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by spudpucker on 2009-04-05
The computer is an asus a8v deluxe with amd64 chip and 2 gigs ram. I also have an Nvidia 3d card.  I installed 8.04 then did the upgrade to 8.1 and everything worked just fine for months now. So I decided to update this morning.  I shut down all the running programs and updated.  I havn't installed any new programs lately either. I just did a simple updated and rebooted like it asked for.  

now it says:

SYSLINUX 3.63 2008-07-15 EBIOS Copyright (C) 1994-2008 H. Peter Anvin
boot:

everything I put in it says "Could not find kernel image:"

The only thing I know about Linux or Ubuntu is that it AIN'T windows (and I hate windows). I took the plunge and have been learning as I go but this is a mindfry.
This is my main computer, it has my email, my twitter, my downloads, my games, my network storage and all of my data, I NEED to boot this computer.  All of my computers are linux now, (maybe should have moved over to ubuntu a little slower).

**more info**
just checked the bios for proper boot order, everything set correctly, usb and network boots are turned off. my sata harddrive is recognized and listed in the bios so that isn't the problem

If no booting is possible, can I even get data off it?
Dumbbutt question #2 can I tweak it so the data part is on another partition or even drive so I could just reinstall and keep my crap? I used the automatic partition setup to consume the whole drive at install. I don't understand mounting yet.

---

### Post by duruttye on 2009-04-05
hey, i'm not an ubuntu guru by far, but I have one question:

is this after, or before the grub loads?

because if it is after, then maybe, just maybe you could start the old kernel, and than maybe, just maybe you can start your laptop.

hope it helps...

waiting for someone who knows more...

---

