---
title: "12.04 no icons and boot issue"
date: 2012-06-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by DallasMavs on 2012-06-18
Hi All,
I am first time Linux and Ubuntu user. I have installed Ubuntu but having problems (i guess rokiee problems)

1) On booting it always shows "grub>" prompt then i need to type command to boot. IS IT POSSIBLE to auto boot

2) After booting, desktop screen shows with top menu "desktop etc" but LEFT bar doesn't show. When i do mouse rollover it works but doesn't show the icons

Background
----------
- I format dell insprison 8600 system
- installed ubuntu 11.10 (all icon were showing and auto boot was working)
- then upgraded to 12.04 (problems started)

I have already run boot repair, Here is dump "paste.ubuntu.com/1047336/"

PLEASE HELP

---

### Post by afixane on 2012-06-18
I'm sorry, i can't help about the GRUB

But if "no icon", try this
```
sudo apt-get purge unity unity2d
sudo apt-get install unity
```

---

### Post by N0oki3 on 2012-06-18
ctrl + alt + t to open terminal

```
 sudo gedit etc/default/grub/
```

find and edit
```

**GRUB_TIMEOUT="Some Number"** 

```

To ```
**GRUB_TIMEOUT="3"**
```

save file and do

```
sudo update-grub
```

and also do
```
unity --reset
```

and also you can try
```
unity --replace
```

And reboot it. Since your in terminal 
```
sudo reboot -h now
```

---

### Post by DallasMavs on 2012-06-18
Thanks for quick reply. But it's not working.

On grub, I tried opening the gedit but it open BLANK file

Fyi, As of now i boot from grub> using below commands
root (hd0,X)
linux /boot/vml use TAB completion here root=/dev/sdaX ro
initrd /boot/initrd.img- use TAB completion here
boot

On Icon, things "unity --reset" command giving below error message and hangs
"unity.glib.gobject <unkown>:0 g_object_unref: assertion 'G_IS_OBJECT (object)' failed"

---

### Post by mansonfan78 on 2012-06-18
Don't know about Unity, but as for grub try this:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)  and scroll down to item 13 - "reinstalling grub2 from the live cd"

---

### Post by DallasMavs on 2012-06-18
BOOT PROBLEM SOLVED.

Used command "gksu gedit /etc/default/grub" and then update TIME to 3 as suggested.

BUT ICON PROBLEM IS STILL OPEN.

---

