---
title: "8.10 installation issues"
date: 2009-01-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nandan on 2009-01-29
Have been using Ubuntu for quite some time now. Have used 7.04, 7.10 and 8.04 as well. since I have an HDD of 40 gb, with win xp on it, I have had to use partitioning extensively. And to save space, I had to install 8.04   over 7.10. 

I wanted to install 8.10 to see how it works. When I tried to use the partitioner, I chose an option that I can't remember now. 8.10 seems to have installed (it shows up in GRUB at startup). However, when selected, it does not load at all. All I get to see is a blank screen (peach coloured background) along with the cursor arrow  and nothing else. Have tried starting in safe mode, recovery etc. (I can see all these options in the startup process of 8.10), but to no avail.

Interestingly, when I try to reinstall 8.10, the install program gets stuck at step 3 of 7. It shows me that it is starting the partitioner, but it hangs  after that and only the busy cursor is seen. So I cannot do a re-install either.

Would request help on:
a) Getting the partitioner to work
b) installing 8.10 correctly and getting it to work

Am currently working on 7.04 right now. Also have win xp, but I try not going there :)

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by bibleman on 2009-01-29
What does sudo fdisk -l show for partitions?

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2009-01-29
Can I see the results of this command?
```
sudo fdisk -lu
```

---

### Post by nandan on 2009-01-29
This is what it shows:
<starts>
Disk /dev/sda: 40.0 GB, 40020664320 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4865 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        2550    20482843+   c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sda2            2551        3624     8626905    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda3            3625        4865     9968332+  83  Linux
/dev/sda5            2551        2920     2971993+   b  W95 FAT32
/dev/sda6            3564        3624      489951   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda7            3529        3563      281106   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda8            2921        3467     4393746   83  Linux

Partition table entries are not in disk order

</ends>

---

### Post by bibleman on 2009-01-29
Could you post what is in the /boot/grub/menu.lst file?

We can use this to match up what partitions are being loaded.

---

### Post by nandan on 2009-01-29
> **bibleman said:**
> Could you post what is in the /boot/grub/menu.lst file?

We can use this to match up what partitions are being loaded.

Hi
how do I do that, please? am not too familiar with linux under the hood.. (or even windoze, for that matter...am not a techie)

---

### Post by nandan on 2009-01-29
here is the text:
<start text>
# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8)
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8),
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-doc/.

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not change this entry to 'saved' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default		0

## timeout sec
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry
# (normally the first entry defined).
timeout		10

## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
#hiddenmenu

# Pretty colours
#color cyan/blue white/blue

## password ['--md5'] passwd
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the
# command 'lock'
# e.g. password topsecret
#      password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/
# password topsecret

#
# examples
#
# title		Windows 95/98/NT/2000
# root		(hd0,0)
# makeactive
# chainloader	+1
#
# title		Linux
# root		(hd0,1)
# kernel	/vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro
#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=fba01e45-3407-4dd8-8def-cfc973d04474 ro

## Setup crashdump menu entries
## e.g. crashdump=1
# crashdump=0

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=(hd0,2)

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options
## e.g. lockold=false
##      lockold=true
# lockold=false

## Xen hypervisor options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenhopt=

## Xen Linux kernel options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenkopt=console=tty0

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=all

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic
root		(hd0,2)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=fba01e45-3407-4dd8-8def-cfc973d04474 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic
quiet
savedefault

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic (recovery mode)
root		(hd0,2)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=fba01e45-3407-4dd8-8def-cfc973d04474 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic
root		(hd0,2)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=UUID=fba01e45-3407-4dd8-8def-cfc973d04474 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic
quiet
savedefault

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic (recovery mode)
root		(hd0,2)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=UUID=fba01e45-3407-4dd8-8def-cfc973d04474 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic

title		Ubuntu, memtest86+
root		(hd0,2)
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title		Other operating systems:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sda1
title		Microsoft Windows XP Professional
root		(hd0,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader	+1

</end text>

---

### Post by nandan on 2009-01-30
Hi

Anybody home? ;)

Are my partitions all messed up?
As always, help is highly appreciated.
Thanks!

---

### Post by nandan on 2009-02-01
bump!

---

