---
title: "14.04 Hibernate / Suspend Not Working as expected"
date: 2014-07-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by chris262 on 2014-07-15
Salutation to all.

My System:
Samsung ATIV Book 9 Lite
Clean Install and latest update of Ubuntu 14.04
Disk Partitioning:

Device Boot    Start           End                Blocks         Id    System
/dev/sda1   *        2048      242845695      121421824   83    Linux
/dev/sda2       242847742   250068991     3610625       5      Extended
/dev/sda5       242847744   250068991     3610624       82    Linux swap / Solaris

Questions:

1) Why does suspend not work as expected, right out the box? My computer goes to sleep but still uses power and drains completely.
2) Why does hibernation not work as expected, right out the box? My computer does not seem to hibernate at all, not through the GUI and nor through the shell.

What I have tried:

Initially, I did not have a SWAP partition, which I have created from free space. 
Did everything on this page: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PowerManagement/Hibernate](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PowerManagement/Hibernate) 
Tried TuxOnIce which did not work. > sudo pm-hibernate will just give me 1 flash on screen and then nothing.

Any help to get my laptop computer to suspend and or hibernate (not using battery power when closing the lid), would be greatly appreciated.

Thank you. ):P

---

### Post by chris262 on 2014-07-16
Here is a pastebin of my:

```
/var/log/pm-suspend.log > [http://paste.ubuntu.com/7802002/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/7802002/)

and 

/var/log/hibernate.log > [http://paste.ubuntu.com/7802011/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/7802011/) 

and output of my /etc/polkit-1/localauthority/50-local.d/com.ubuntu.enable-hibernate.pkla

[Re-enable hibernate by default in upower]
Identity=unix-user:*
Action=org.freedesktop.upower.hibernate
ResultActive=yes

[Re-enable hibernate by default in logind]
Identity=unix-user:*
Action=org.freedesktop.login1.hibernate
ResultActive=yes


the output of: cat /proc/cmdline (even though I have --purged and removed tuxonice and related packages)

BOOT_IMAGE=/boot/vmlinuz-3.13.0-30-generic-tuxonice root=UUID=ccbd5574-ce3d-4f34-b5e3-e95c8df9828f ro quiet splash vt.handoff=7


the output of lspci -k | grep -iA2 VGA

00:01.0 VGA compatible controller: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Temash [Radeon HD 8250/8280G]
    Subsystem: Samsung Electronics Co Ltd Device c730
    Kernel driver in use: radeon
```



I am yet to search through more posts on the forum. Interesting read here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2111580&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2111580&page=3) but looks like no resolution at the end.

Any help please?

Thank you.

---

### Post by newb85 on 2014-07-17
The suspend behavior you described is as expected. I believe it's analogous to sleep in Windows, which also uses a small amount of power. 

Hibernate is another story.  It works well in some machines, not on others. For this reason, it's usually disabled on Ubuntu by default.

---

### Post by chris262 on 2014-07-22
Sleep and Suspend is synonymous to each other and the words are just being used on different software platforms. The idea is to have a lower power consumption when sleeping / suspending as opposed to when leaving the computer in its normal state.

Nevertheless, I am looking for anything I can do to get my computer to sleep / suspend and or hibernate in order to save battery power.

UPDATE: upgraded to latest kernel; 3.15.6 with no change

Anyone else?

---

### Post by newb85 on 2014-07-22
So you're saying sleep on your system uses more than just a little power?

---

### Post by chris262 on 2014-07-22
1 month old [COLOR=#000000]Samsung ATIV Book 9 Lite[/COLOR], suspend does not work as expected because my fully charged laptop, going into suspend (pm-suspend) will be drained after say 24 hours or so, maybe a little longer. That is not how suspend should work.

This is a fresh install of 14.04 on a SSD drive with 4GB RAM and no other tweaking / changes were done. I only leave Chrome open and the odd Libre document and .pdf file. (Yes I know Chrome takes a lot of power but really??)

That is why I am trying to get hibernate to work, in the hope that this would provide me with less power consumption :-)

I am starting to feel a little weird thinking that I am the only one having this problem? 

The only thing that I can think of is that the hibernation issue is originating from the fact that I did not install a SWAP partition prior to my install of 14.04 and that the newly, manually created SWAP partition (also tried SWAP file) just would not work with hibernation. 

Anyone else please?!

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-07-25
> **chris262 said:**
> 1 month old [COLOR=#000000]Samsung ATIV Book 9 Lite[/COLOR], suspend does not work as expected because my fully charged laptop, going into suspend (pm-suspend) will be drained after say 24 hours or so, maybe a little longer. That is not how suspend should work.

I have to reiterate IT IS how suspend should work. Unlike hibernation - and stemming from the necessity to keep the session 'alive' - suspension requires energy to keep the RAM up and running while at the some time shutting everything else down. So, sooner or later, your battery WILL drain. How exactly this isn't the expected behavior? Is it different, I mean worse, than in Windows? Some diofferences are to be expected for sure and I wouldn't be surprised if the Windows drivers are optimized for that purpose.

> The only thing that I can think of is that the hibernation issue is  originating from the fact that I did not install a SWAP partition prior  to my install of 14.04 and that the newly, manually created SWAP  partition (also tried SWAP file) just would not work with hibernation. 

What swap file????
Of course, hibernation always require at least the same but preferably higher space than RAM. That said it should work with a newly created swap partition - not file! - provided it is correctly recognized as such - and used - by the OS. Otherwise hibernation won't work, period.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2014-07-25
Please use code tags - if you are using New Reply button - highlight text and use the # button in the text box header. 
 
If using Quick Reply then [noparse]```
[/noparse] at the beginning and [noparse]
```[/noparse] at the end.

---

### Post by chris262 on 2014-07-26
Thank you for your input [[COLOR=#000000]Vladlenin5000[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1468732")

> I have to reiterate IT IS how suspend should work. Unlike hibernation - and stemming from the necessity to keep the session 'alive' - suspension requires energy to keep the RAM up and running while at the some time shutting everything else down. So, sooner or later, your battery WILL drain. How exactly this isn't the expected behavior? Is it different, I mean worse, than in Windows? Some diofferences are to be expected for sure and I wouldn't be surprised if the Windows drivers are optimized for that purpose.

Correct yes, it is different; worse from Windows. But now knowing that this behaviour should be expected, I guess there is nothing more to it then. Suspend works as expected, but just not as one would expect, coming from a Microsoft Windows background.

> What swap file????
Of course, hibernation always require at least the same but preferably higher space than RAM. That said it should work with a newly created swap partition - not file! - provided it is correctly recognized as such - and used - by the OS. Otherwise hibernation won't work, period.

I ended up reading about crypttab and urandom, hence the mention of a swap file. 

I am getting a "SWAP header not found" when trying to hibernate.

Anything else I could try to get hibernation to work?

---

### Post by newb85 on 2014-07-31
What is the output of
```
sudo lsblk -o NAME,FSTYPE,SIZE,MOUNTPOINT,LABEL
```

---

### Post by chris262 on 2014-08-01
sda           119,2G            
&#9500;&#9472;sda1 ext4   115,8G /          
&#9492;&#9472;sda2 swap     3,5G            swap

---

### Post by whitesmith on 2014-08-01
Hibernation will fail unless the swap partition you setup is at least as large as available RAM. Obviously it can't be smaller than available RAM because hibernation saves the current state of the machine to the swap partition, and that state could, in theory, be as large as installed RAM. Note that I'm talking about a **partition**, not a file. Swapfiles are used by Windows for hibernation, but not by Linux.

---

### Post by AlexGein on 2014-08-20
Hi,

I have a similar problem with my Acer S7 running 14.04, but not consistently. If I initiate a suspend (shut the lid, command line or via the menu) it will sometimes suspend correctly which is noticable via the status lights on the front (changes from blue to blinking red). When this happens it uses roughly 5% battery in 24 hours. However, half the time this does not suspend and only shuts the screen off which obviously drains the battery much quicker (it takes a little more than 24 hours to completely empty).

Its getting quite annoying as I have to shut it down completely to maintain battery life.

---

