---
title: "~/.config folder in ubuntu"
date: 2012-12-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by abhchennagiri on 2012-12-13
What exactly is .config folder in home directory?what to do if we accidentally delete it?

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2012-12-13
This may help

[http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142%3Au-ocqbntw_o&cof=FORID%3A9&ie=UTF-8&q=.config+folder&as_qdr=all&sa=Google+Search&lang=en](http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142%3Au-ocqbntw_o&cof=FORID%3A9&ie=UTF-8&q=.config+folder&as_qdr=all&sa=Google+Search&lang=en)

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-12-14
> **abhchennagiri said:**
> What exactly is .config folder in home directory?what to do if we accidentally delete it?
It's an important folder that saves user-specific settings. So don't delete it! If you have "accidentally" deleted it, restore it from the Trash ASAP. Unless you've deleted it via the command line in which case it's gone for good.

Anyway, there's no permanent damage done. You'll just have lost a lot of settings, many of which the respective programs will try to recreate the next time they run.

But I guess you will have to first recreate ~/.config. Anyone has experience with this?

---

### Post by jpeddicord on 2012-12-14
If you accidentally erase .config, it will be re-created the next time something tries to save something there. Yes, you will have lost most of your settings, considering most applications store stuff there.

Another folder you don't want to remove is .local, as that stores more general application data. Typically databases, save files, your Trash folder, etc will go here while settings will be in .config.

Finally, you have .cache, which you *should* be able to remove safely if you're in dire need of space, however I've had some whiny applications stop working correctly when their caches went missing.


Source: Personal experience -- I've accidentally deleted .config while trying to hard-link it somewhere else. ;)

---

