---
title: "12.4 distributions"
date: 2013-05-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by 901 on 2013-05-13
Is there a 12.4 distribution that can be downloaded w/o pae?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-05-13
Not sure, but I think [lubuntu]("http://lubuntu.net/").

---

### Post by 901 on 2013-05-13
I just checked my system through windows. It says I have a P4 w/ 3.20 GHz, 1.93 GB RAM and Physical Address Extension (pae)!
Why can't Ubuntu see the pae through the virtual machine interface so that I don't get the error that no pae is present? Do I need to do something to make Ubuntu recognize that the chip has pae?

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-05-13
VirtualBox?  Machine>Settings

[ATTACH=CONFIG]242566[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-05-13
Are you trying to run Ubuntu in VB with those specs?

It's going to be slow as molasses. 

Getting it to recognize the pae status will be the least of your problems.

I wouldn't recommend any Ubuntu distro heavier than lubuntu for it.
Preferably, something like openbox, ot fluxbox.
Maybe a simple window manager like awesome.

---

### Post by 901 on 2013-05-13
Yes, I am. 
I used LiLi USB Creator to download a 11.10 distribution because when I tried a 12.4 from the list in LiLi, I downloaded VM and the distribution and got the no pae error message.
What machine adjustments do I need to make to speed it up and get the distribution to install?
Is there a different USB Creator I should try?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-05-14
Ubuntu should install on it fine.
Haven't ever used lili usb before so don't know how it works.
But Ubuntu would be slow as it is on that machine let alone running in a VM.

I run Ubuntu/unity on a machine with almost identical specs, and it's clunky at best.
But I do also run different desktop environments, and lubuntu runs quite nicely on it.

But think of it this way, take it's performance on an actual install(no VM) and then cut that in half.
Remember, you still need a functional host machine. So resources will have to be favored toward the host.
And Ubuntu/unity is a resource junky.

---

### Post by 901 on 2013-05-14
Can I download lbuntu to a stick and run it directly from the stick and get better performance than through VM or VB, whichever is correct?

---

### Post by 901 on 2013-05-18
I have downloaded lubuntu 12.0 using lili usb creator. When I try to install lubuntu, I'm getting an error message about partitions that I don't understand or know what to do.  I can get to a screen that is called Installation Type. There are several buttons at the top and bottom of the screen. None of the buttons seem to do anything (they are grayed out). In the lower right is three buttons: the left button is quit, the right button is install. When I click the right install button, I get an error message that says: No Root File System, No Root File Systems Defined, Please Correct this Problem From the Partitioning Menu. When I click OK, The Installation Type Screen says: Starting up the Partitioner, Scanning File System, and Detecting File System. Then it goes back to the screen with the install button and nothing else happens. What do I need to do to access the partitioning menu? What do I need to partition, the stick drive? How do I get there?

---

