---
title: "8.10"
date: 2008-11-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Sparty26 on 2008-11-10
Hey, I know that 8.10 just came out very recently, so help will be hard to come by at this point, but I figured it was worth a try anyway.

I upgraded to the newest version of Kubuntu on my Gateway 7330 GZ Notebook. Ever since, I have occasional problems with the computer automatically taking me back to the log-in screen. Any ideas?

---

### Post by jimmy the saint on 2008-11-10
First of all, you are much more likely to get help with a post title that is more informative that "8.10."  
Second, without more inofrmation (what are you doing when this happens?  Do you have any programs running?  have you tried to disable anything in an effort to stop this?  what kind of hardware do you have?  have you tried searching for known bugs?)  it is difficult to know where to begin to try to help you.
I would start by disabling any restricted drivers (nvidia) and disabling uneeded startup programs. (session manager)

---

### Post by kernelhaxor on 2008-11-10
I think some application you are using is crashing X server causing it to restart after the crash which is when you come to the login screen .. do you remember which apps you were using when this happened? (this used to happen to me whenever I tried to resize the window of some application)

I've been using Kubuntu 8.10 since it came out and luckily its been working good .. I do use the nvidia restricted drivers

---

### Post by Durden on 2008-11-10
This is what I would do personally as I have had issues like this with KDE often. 

Open a terminal and:
rm -rf .kde*
rm -rf .qt*

Then reboot. This will force KDE to restore itself to defaults. I suspect that your upgrade wasn't a clean one and KDE has some kinda funkiness going on in it's configs. Just get rid of them and let KDE make a fresh setup.

If the problem persists then it's an application crashing X. You should post what programs you have running at the time it happens.

---

### Post by Sparty26 on 2008-11-14
Okay, I just wiped 8.10 off of my computer and reloaded my original version of Kubuntu. I was having way too many problems with it. And as for the title of this thread, it was an accident, and you can edit the title of a thread once it has been posted. Anyway, thanks for all of the help.

---

