---
title: "10.04 blues..."
date: 2010-07-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mrfoochie on 2010-07-05
i fixed this problem 2 days ago but now it's back... i got no buttons on my windows... minimize, maximize, close, nothing... i may cry soon... hulu won't work either now... i'm never updating again...

---

### Post by mrfoochie on 2010-07-05
also, my pointer turned back into an x...

---

### Post by MooPi on 2010-07-05
Do you want help or just Ranting ? :-(

---

### Post by mrfoochie on 2010-07-05
help,,, yes please! sorry to sound whiny, i just fell off my bike and am a mass of bloody pulpy nastiness...

---

### Post by MooPi on 2010-07-05
I'm guessing you're using the standard desktop, so can you take a screenshot of you desktop with a folder open and your mouse pointer showing? Post it back here for us to view.

---

### Post by mrfoochie on 2010-07-05
sorry, took me a while... umm the pointer does not show up as an x in the screen shot for some reason... but you can see the absence of buttons... i am also unable to click and drag windows about... the altclickdrag trick doesn't work either... thanks

---

### Post by ubunterooster on 2010-07-05
Try pressing alt+f2; enter ```
compiz
```.

If this helps the problem is with compiz.

---

### Post by mrfoochie on 2010-07-05
nothing happened...

---

### Post by MooPi on 2010-07-05
Try to change your theme back to default or something your accustomed to. It should be under System/Preferences/Appearance. How did you fix this two days ago ?

---

### Post by mrfoochie on 2010-07-06
i just changed the resolution settings...

---

### Post by tmette on 2010-07-06
Hit Alt+F2 again and enter

gconf-editor

Go to Apps > Metacity > General.  Double-click the button_layout key and what is it?  If you want the window buttons on the right it say this in the Value:

menu:maximize,minimize,close

---

### Post by Yarui on 2010-07-06
Have you tried to turn off your desktop effects?  I don't remember what menu this is in, probably Appearance Preferences.  Normally if you change from having effects to having none, it removes some buttons from the top bar, so I'm assuming it changes to a different manager for displaying that bar, it may make it act a bit more normal.

EDIT:  I decided to reboot into Ubuntu to check for you.  If you go to "Appearance Preferences > Visual Effects" you can change between 3 settings.  If you choose "None" it changes your window manager from Compiz to Metacity.  If things start acting normal after that it's probably something wrong with Compiz.

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-07-07
Looks like you're missing a window decorator. Do you use compiz? ccsm (compiz-config-settings-manager) installed? Go to 'Effects>Window Decoration' and make sure this is in the command field:
```
/usr/bin/compiz-decorator
```
Logout/in

---

