---
title: "1. jack's a problem / 2. recording directly fr media"
date: 2011-04-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lemured on 2011-04-24
Hi everybody,

ubuntu karmic

1. I'm having multiple problems that seem directly connected to my jack [meant is the _other_ plug in device]. Basically anything connected w/ making sound fails and error mssgs all conclude that jack's at the bottom of things [players, such as totem or vlc are not affected].
Rosegarden tells me that I shall throw on jack control before trying again to use it [i.e.rosegarden]. jack control gives me the error mssg:
'could not connect to JACKserver as client -overall operation failed -unable to connect to server Please check the messages window fr more info'.
The mssg windows reads:
'12:49:09.698 Patchbay deactivated.
12:49:09.725 Statistics reset.
12:49:09.855 Startup script...
12:49:09.857 artsshell -q terminate
12:49:09.899 ALSA connection graph change.
sh: artsshell: not found
12:49:10.407 Startup script terminated with exit status=32512.
12:49:10.408 JACK is starting...
12:49:10.409 /usr/bin/jackd -R -dalsa -dhw:0 -r44100 -p1024 -n2
12:49:10.419 JACK was started with PID=3500.
no message buffer overruns
jackd 0.116.1
Copyright 2001-2005 Paul Davis and others.
jackd comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
under certain conditions; see the file COPYING for details
JACK compiled with System V SHM support.
cannot use real-time scheduling (FIFO at priority 10) [for thread -1215744320, from thread -1215744320] (1: Operation not permitted)
cannot create engine
12:49:10.588 JACK was stopped successfully.
12:49:10.589 Post-shutdown script...
12:49:10.590 killall jackd
12:49:10.614 ALSA connection change.
jackd: no process found
12:49:11.014 Post-shutdown script terminated with exit status=256.
12:49:12.643 Could not connect to JACK server as client. - Overall operation failed. - Unable to connect to server. Please check the messages window for more info.'

Most of which, I admit, are above me, except the bit w/ Paul Davis.
Audacity & LMMS don't give me such elaborate error mssgs, they just don't work.
That is, everything pops up fine and happily so, and I'd resolve to simply re-install everything containing the word 'jack' in order to hear anything, just that in case of LMMS buttons let themselves be pushed, windows pop up nicely, options let themselves being chosen, lights flash, all pretty, but here the missing sound doesn't result fr jack-related problems but from LMMS not letting me play & replay anything. I did read the manual, though the troubleshooting appears to have been written by another person who by principle wrote it for the higher authorities amongst us. Thus  I'm not entirely sure whether the problem would be solved w/ newly installing jack appls.

Anyone having any ideas, I'd sacrifice today's applecake out of gratefulness.  

2. Is it at all possible to directly record fr media by any means outside buying a micro and holding it to the speakers? 
Meant is recording internally from VLC-player or Totem, say, off a movie or video?
I do have the device 'sound recorder', which by name sounds promising, but it doesn't appear to offer this option.

As always these 2 open inquiries are accompanied by the feeling of having the solutions sitting next to me and nudging me w/ big, fat fingers, but, hey...

Thank you, have a nice May,

       lemured

---

### Post by r-senior on 2011-04-24
> **lemured said:**
> cannot use real-time scheduling (FIFO at priority 10) [for thread -1215744320, from thread -1215744320]
...
Anyone having any ideas, I'd sacrifice today's applecake out of gratefulness.  

Assuming you don't have a real-time kernel, try turning off the "Realtime" setting in JACK Control setup:

---

### Post by lemured on 2011-04-25
Thank you, r-senior, but that didn't seem to be the problem,
the situation is the same.
I'll try re-installing. If that won't help I might consider temporary spells of deafness being the cause...
Though not regarding the mentioned problem w/ LMMS.

---

