---
title: "External VGA display."
date: 2009-10-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lover_of_sc on 2009-10-21
Hi Guys,

I have a SONY Vaio W series netbook (so no Nvidia card), I have tried to contact my VGA output to my telly but I cant get it to work.  

Done some browsing and it seems like I need to amend the Xorg.conf file 


Output from current file:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"


EndSection

Any idea how I can make it work?

Cheers.

---

### Post by k33bz on 2009-10-21
Most laptops will have a function key that you can push that will let your external VGA output work. For example mine is Fn + F5. 

If that dont work, boot up your laptop while your telly is connected to your laptop VIA VGA. And that should do the trick.

---

