---
title: "11.04 lost ability to update"
date: 2012-04-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by memyselfnie on 2012-04-16
I am not exactly a nube, but an install I've been using keeps telling me:
Not enough free disk space
The upgrade needs a total of 453 M free space on disk '/'. Please free at least an additional 234 M of disk space on '/'. Empty your trash and remove temporary packages of former installations using 'sudo apt-get clean'.
I have emptied the trash, did the sudo apt-get clean, and all partitions have gigs available.  I cannot update because of this error, WTF?

---

### Post by mcduck on 2012-04-16
What does "df -h" say about available space?

---

### Post by sanderj on 2012-04-16
> **memyselfnie said:**
> I am not exactly a nube, but an install I've been using keeps telling me:
Not enough free disk space
The upgrade needs a total of 453 M free space on disk '/'. Please free at least an additional 234 M of disk space on '/'. Empty your trash and remove temporary packages of former installations using 'sudo apt-get clean'.
I have emptied the trash, did the sudo apt-get clean, and all partitions have gigs available.  I cannot update because of this error, WTF?

What's the output of "df -BG"?

---

### Post by memyselfnie on 2012-04-19
Sorry, the problem was, I had an 80 gig drive which had an ntfs part,
and an 8.04 install.  The second drive was a 30 gig install of 11.04,
with a 5 gig part for the os. 5 gig apparently wasn't enough, and I
couldn't "see" the second drive until I fired up gparted.
Knew it was there, but I had no idea it was full. Quickly fixed the problem, and marking this solved.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-04-19
> **memyselfnie said:**
>  The second drive was a 30 gig install of 11.04,
with a 5 gig part for the os. 5 gig apparently wasn't enough..

5GB is a bit tight for a / partition these days, I think. I gather 10 or 15 is a good number, if you can afford the space. I've only got around 4GB in the / of this install, but it grows quickly. I think the desktop has around 7GB. 

Bear in mind, this is with a separate /home partition. If your /home is not separate, then 5GB is really tight.

---

