---
title: "Compiz Fusion with Intel Graphics Controller"
date: 2009-01-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by o0Rusty0o on 2009-01-30
Hello everyone. I am new with all this Linux and Distro stuff so please bear with me; I am trying to learn more and more so that I can have all the benefits I can get from Linux and Ubuntu. 


 I have had Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid Ibex for a week now and unfortunately, I have also encountered problems along the way. The others are not as major as my problem with Confiz Fusion. 

I first encountered it when I installed Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid Ibex when I only get a blank screen after putting in my password to login. 
I used my second computer to find a solution and this is what I found: from [*Andrew's Blog*]("http://andrewtheart.blogspot.com/2008/12/blank-screen-on-startup-after.html"). He had all the symptoms that I was having and I put the code:
```
sudo apt-get purge compiz compiz-core
```
and it worked for me; I could now login. 

After searching what might have caused the problem, I found out that Compiz Fusion has problems with my Intel 82845g gl ge pe gv graphics controller. Since I didn't think I need Compiz, I thought I could live without it. 

So now that I can log in into my account, I tried using widgets and AWN, but I discovered that I needed Compiz Fusion.  I now tried to look for a solution to fix this and stumbled upon this possible solution in FedoraForum.org (which I'm not really sure if it can be applied in Ubuntu) : [*Datu Puti's Post*. ]("http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showpost.php?p=1148052&postcount=22")

So I opened my Xorg.conf file and was surprised to see that my **Xorg.conf** is different:

[HTML]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection[/HTML]

How can I fix this problem?

---

### Post by abn91c on 2009-01-30
As far as I have read in the forums, that's a normal xorg with 8.10, compiz is a no-go with I845 series cards( I have a dell dimension 2400 with one)An the only solution for ubuntu is removing compiz which you did already. If yoy want some eye candy you can always give Kubuntu a try

---

### Post by o0Rusty0o on 2009-01-30
Thank you for the response. 

That is unfortunate. 

Yes, I would like to have some eye candy. So does Kubuntu support I845 series cards? And is there another app like Compiz that I can use in Kubuntu?

Thank you again for answering, I really appreciate it.

---

### Post by abn91c on 2009-01-30
> **o0Rusty0o said:**
> Thank you for the response. 

That is unfortunate. 

Yes, I would like to have some eye candy. So does Kubuntu support I845 series cards? And is there another app like Compiz that I can use in Kubuntu?

Thank you again for answering, I really appreciate it.
yes it will,the driver its a known bug with ubuntu/kubuntu 8.10 so removing compiz is the only workaround.  but the plasma desktop is very cool, you can get plasmoids like clocks, weather, system monitors, heres my desktop
```
sudo apt-get install kubuntu-desktop
```

---

### Post by o0Rusty0o on 2009-01-31
Very nice desktop. So putting the code you posted above will get me Kubuntu right? 

Sorry for the nuisance.

---

