---
title: "amd64"
date: 2009-07-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mayagrafix on 2009-07-26
When I start to download new 64-Bit version Jaunty 9.04 my donwload manager says file name: **ubuntu-9.04-desktop-amd64.iso**

Is this file good for Intel chip also? or just for AMD chip?

Thanx for info :D

---

### Post by Crunchy the Headcrab on 2009-07-26
Yes, it is the version that you need for Intel 64bit chipsets.

Here's some background from wikipedia that explains the naming convention:
> The x86-64 specification was designed by [Advanced Micro Devices]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Micro_Devices") (AMD), who have since renamed it **AMD64**. The first family of processors to support the architecture was the [AMD K8]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AMD_K8") family of processors. This was the first time any company other than Intel made significant additions to the x86 architecture. Intel was forced to follow suit, introducing modified [NetBurst]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NetBurst") family processors, initially referred to as "IA-32e" or "EM64T" and now called Intel 64 and almost identical to AMD64. x86-64 is backwards compatible with 32-bit code without any performance loss.


---

### Post by Nburnes on 2009-07-26
Its for Intel and AMD just named amd64 for some reason I don't know of at this moment. :(

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-07-26
The "amd64" has more to do with the machine-language instructions the processor can use than its manufacturer. 

Have a look here for more information: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amd64](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amd64)

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2009-07-26
When downloading you have the option of using 64bit or 32bit.
The 64bit version can cover most new processors, not just AMD.
If you have a Intel dualcore the 64bit version will work, sometimes later Pentium 4s will work too.
But even if you did have a AMD64 CPU you can install the 32bit version as the 64bit CPU is backwards compatible.
But not all Intels support 64bit, most of the older intel chips up till the late Pentium 4s were 32bit only.

---

### Post by mayagrafix on 2009-07-26
Thanks people... I appreciate your help tremendously :D

---

