---
title: "10.04 printing issue"
date: 2012-06-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rmason9 on 2012-06-29
I have a new install of 10.04.4 on my laptop (I gave up trying to get 12.04 to boot correctly) and am having a problem printing to my networked HP PSC 1410.  

I installed Samba, have file sharing working and Ubuntu found and installed the driver.  My laptop can see both my printers on the network, the HP and a Samsung ML-2010 laser.  It prints fine to the Samsung but all print jobs get hung up in print cue on the HP.  

I have tried printing a "test page" from the HP properties box in ubuntu and also an Open Office doc.  Ubuntu thinks the print job was successful but nothing prints.  When I open up the HP printer cue on the Win7 desktop, the document appears as a "Remote Downlevel Document" and it is "Printing."  The green light on the printer flashes as though it were receiving data although nothing prints.  I must cancel the print job from the Win7puter to clear it out, after which the Win7puter prints to it with no problems.  

I downloaded and installed the latest hplip driver from [hplipopensource.com]("http://hplipopensourc.com") even though the one I was running was probably the same, but that didn't make a difference.  The printers are connected via USB to my Win7 desktop which shares the printers on my home wireless network.  

Any ideas or suggestions?

---

### Post by drdos2006 on 2012-06-29
Check this blog out, it may help.

[http://blog.amoktech.com/](http://blog.amoktech.com/)

regards

---

### Post by mapes12 on 2012-06-30
If your printers are connected to the windoze machine then it is that machine that needs the drivers to be correctly configured. It doesn't matter what you have on the UBU box.

---

