---
title: "7.10 --&gt; 8.04"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by watsgoodg on 2008-04-28
should i make the switch over?  I've been doing alot of searching and it seems there's quite a bit of problems.

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-04-28
I always load the new version fresh.  Every time I upgraded I had problems.

---

### Post by mapes12 on 2008-04-28
I had 7.10 on my (old) PC and downloaded the iso for 8.04. I did a fresh install of 8.04 but unfortunatley the screen resolution settings just didn't work. So I've wiped 8.04 and gone back to a fresh install of 7.10. There appear to be an number of posts about poor screen resolution in 8.04. I suppose a network upgrade via Update Manager may render a different result but I haven't tried it. If you do decide to upgrade my tip would be to keep a copy of /etc/X11/xorg.conf file and replace the xorg.conf file that 8.04 generates with the backup saved from 7.10 if the screen resolution isn't configured correctly.  :rolleyes:

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2008-04-28
The Golden Rule: If aint broken do not fix it.

But if you want to have the newest the best the most cool...
My hardy cannot connect to the internet so I stick with gutsy.:popcorn:

---

### Post by mormor on 2008-04-28
I did a fresh install yesterday. Got everything in place now. Problems was:

Huawei e220 mobile connect card. Solved after school.
Sound disapeared. Solved 2 minutes ago.
Other then that I have had no problems so far. But Its pretty fresh still. Went alot smoother than the change from vista to 7.10 : )

Even media playback from web got in place pretty fast: )

---

### Post by Seventh Reign on 2008-04-28
8.04 runs twice as fast as my Windows system and much faster than my 7.10 did.  I couldnt be happier.

---

### Post by zaussome on 2008-04-28
z

---

### Post by guitarthrasher on 2008-04-28
I made the upgrade a couple of days ago and I like it.
I recommend.

---

### Post by c4v3m4n on 2008-04-28
Hardy has its ups and downs, for some people it runs great and for others it has quite a few mishaps.  Most of the people i know having problems are mainly having them with firefox 3 flash.  I'd personally just wait for a bit to upgrade until all the kinks are worked out.

---

### Post by FredB on 2008-04-28
For flash, the answer is simple : trash flashplugin non free and use swfdec instead.

Of course Swfdec is not as powerful as adobe flash, but at least, it doesn't make firefox 3 crashing and other problems like this.

---

### Post by ryot on 2008-04-28
I have hardy on 3 machines( two AMD64 laptops and one Opteron workstation) and all is great! I haven't come against anything that I couldn't get to work with little or if any effort. I have ran on just about every distro out there and recently made the switch to Ubuntu and I love it. No hassles, no fighting....it just works. I can not attest to the stability of of 8.04 compared to 7.10 but I say go for it.

---

