---
title: "9.10 - Login Volume"
date: 2009-12-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by buddyd16 on 2009-12-04
I am semi new to Linux I have searched the forums and could not find anything that mimicked my issue. 

Currently whenever I restart my system the volume at login is/gets set to maximum and stays that way until I adjust the system volume via the top panel. The indicated system volume is not at maximum though

has anyone else experienced this and are there any work arounds as it is rather annoying to have to turn off my speaker until after the login sound has been played and I have adjusted the volume.

thank you

---

### Post by LuisGMarine on 2009-12-04
Hello,

While I have not experienced your issue in particular, I could however point you in the direction in which to turn off your login sound.  I find that it always skips, so this is why I chose to do it.

To start off Click on "System" -> "Preferences" -> "Sounds" while in this window just click and make sure that 'No Sounds' is selected in the theme option.

Hope this helps ;)

---

### Post by hobo14 on 2009-12-04
> **LuisGMarine said:**
> Hello,

While I have not experienced your issue in particular, I could however point you in the direction in which to turn off your login sound.  I find that it always skips, so this is why I chose to do it.

To start off Click on "System" -> "Preferences" -> "Sounds" while in this window just click and make sure that 'No Sounds' is selected in the theme option.

Hope this helps ;)

That stops the big bit of music when you see your desktop, but not the short drum roll when you see the login screen.

To get rid of the drumroll:
$ **sudo -u gdm gconftool-2 --set /desktop/gnome/sound/event_sounds --type bool false**

---

### Post by LuisGMarine on 2009-12-04
> **hobo14 said:**
> That stops the big bit of music when you see your desktop, but not the short drum roll when you see the login screen.

To get rid of the drumroll:
$ **sudo -u gdm gconftool-2 --set /desktop/gnome/sound/event_sounds --type bool false**


Cool will add this to my book!  Thanks!

---

### Post by buddyd16 on 2009-12-05
is there anyway to decrease the volume without completely shutting off the login sound?

---

### Post by orbital on 2009-12-06
Thanks this got rid of the login drum roll. I mean, I kept hearing this drum roll even when I put the volume on my laptop all the way to zero, annoying bug.

---

### Post by cartisdm on 2009-12-06
> **buddyd16 said:**
> is there anyway to decrease the volume without completely shutting off the login sound?

Try this:

Navigate to

**/usr/share/sounds/ubuntu/stereo**

Locate the file **desktop-login.ogg**

Then open that file with Audacity and lower the volume.  Once you set it to a desired level, save the file under the exact same file name.

---

### Post by LuisGMarine on 2009-12-06
someone should make this a sticky, lol can't tell you how many times I'm referring back to this thread to answer someone else's thread :p

---

### Post by buddyd16 on 2009-12-06
My main problem though is not that the sound file itself is loud but that my system volume gets set to maximum, but the volume icon on the panel shows the volume level it was set at prior to the restart. I then have to adjust the volume either up or down for the systme volume to actually be at the levels that the panel icon indicates.

---

### Post by jmattcam on 2010-03-02
im not sure this is the solution to this particular problem but i hope this helps some people out that want to keep the login sound but at a lower level.

every time i login, the sound is so loud that i was worried that the small speakers in my laptop would bust.  it did not matter what my last volume was set at when i shutdown, the login sound was always extremely loud and my system would default to 100% volume.

this is what i did
1) go to System>Preferences>Startup Applications
2) select GNOME Login Sound then click Edit
3) in the command box you should see this: /usr/bin/canberra-gtk-play --id="desktop-login" --description="GNOME Login"
4) i added a volume switch in the command and now it is set to this: /usr/bin/canberra-gtk-play --volume="-25.0" --id="desktop-login" --description="GNOME Login"
5) after adding the volume to the command, click save (i like to click edit again just to double check that the new settings actually saved) then close the startup applications window and logout to try the new volume.

the -25.0 volume is comfortable for me but you might want to play around with different values for your preference. just copy that command into a terminal and test out different values. i did this with my volume set to 100% since my volume seems to always default to 100% when i login. setting the volume value to 0.0 will do nothing to the volume. if you want to increase the volume of the login sound, then add a positive number (ex: 10.0). negative numbers, like the -25.0 that i have mine set to, will decrease the volume. again, play with different values to suit your needs. testing in a terminal will also prevent the need to logout and login several times to dial in the right volume. according to the canberra-gtk-play help file, the value for the volume must be a floating point number so make sure you use the decimal form of the number that you choose. like in my example, i used -25.0 instead of -25

i just figured this out and its working great for the login sound so far. i havent yet figured out how to decrease the volume on that little drum roll sound before you actually login. any help with that would be appreciated.

again, i hope this can help some people out and also save some laptop speakers.

---

### Post by ankle on 2010-03-21
> **buddyd16 said:**
> Currently whenever I restart my system the volume at login is/gets set to maximum and stays that way until I adjust the system volume via the top panel. The indicated system volume is not at maximum though

I have exactly the same problem - the volume control applet shows the volume level to be where I expect it to be after a restart, but it's actually at 100% until it's manually adjusted.

It seems like a bug somewhere; I'd like to know where...

---

