---
title: "8.10 Problems (Two problems I need help with)"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Crash 0verride on 2008-10-31
I have a problem with My Graphics card and the server to download programs and such via Add and Remove Programs

1. My graphics card is a Nvidia 4200 Ti w/ AGP8X and there is no drivers for it. Why? in Hardy Heron and every version before that since I have been using Ubuntu HAS had it. And now I cannot play any of my favorite games on Ubuntu. I mean I can't even use Comp Fusion I mean what the hell!

2. Add and Remove programs It took me eleven minutes to connect just to download VLC Player? What the **** is up with that?

Sorry for my language I just want to watch NCIS and play my games right now before I begin yelling at kids asking me for candy
:popcorn:

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-10-31
The connection issue might be due to heavy use after lot of folks adopted ibex & updated? You should try again when the dust settles.

Looking in synaptic it does appear that the legacy driver is gone but you could install envy from the package manager and try using that to install the nvidia driver.

---

### Post by TheLions on 2008-10-31
> **Crash 0verride said:**
> I have a problem with My Graphics card and the server to download programs and such via Add and Remove Programs

1. My graphics card is a Nvidia 4200 Ti w/ AGP8X and there is no drivers for it. Why? in Hardy Heron and every version before that since I have been using Ubuntu HAS had it. And now I cannot play any of my favorite games on Ubuntu. I mean I can't even use Comp Fusion I mean what the hell!

2. Add and Remove programs It took me eleven minutes to connect just to download VLC Player? What the **** is up with that?

Sorry for my language I just want to watch NCIS and play my games right now before I begin yelling at kids asking me for candy
:popcorn:

1. i don't know why there aren't drivers for your card, but you can download it from here:[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_x86_96.43.07.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_x86_96.43.07.html)

2. servers under heavy load?

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2008-10-31
> **Crash 0verride said:**
> I have a problem with My Graphics card and the server to download programs and such via Add and Remove Programs

1. My graphics card is a Nvidia 4200 Ti w/ AGP8X and there is no drivers for it. Why? in Hardy Heron and every version before that since I have been using Ubuntu HAS had it. And now I cannot play any of my favorite games on Ubuntu. I mean I can't even use Comp Fusion I mean what the hell!

2. Add and Remove programs It took me eleven minutes to connect just to download VLC Player? What the **** is up with that?

Sorry for my language I just want to watch NCIS and play my games right now before I begin yelling at kids asking me for candy
:popcorn:


Now I DUNNO! Because I never had problems with the GeForce 4 Ti being unsupported, at least with previous versions, it was a piece of cake. 

If you have problems with failing to recognize the video card, it usually is because the video card is newer than the version of Ubuntu you're using. 

If you have a video card that was released after the version of Ubuntu you're using, prepare for a crash, at least an X crash!

---

### Post by Crash 0verride on 2008-10-31
I am not experiencing any crash it just won't let me do anything that uses graphics and I will try the download links I managed to connect and dowload VLC player via there Repos

---

### Post by Crash 0verride on 2008-10-31
Got some errors X-Server already running please shut down before installing and something about a failed /var/....
Anyway.
My graphics driver always showed up on Restricted Drivers on all the other versions of Ubuntu and it was on Hardy Heron and now its not on this one -_-

---

### Post by nick_h on 2008-10-31
You need an nVidia driver that supports Xorg v1.5 - there is a beta version out 96.43.09 (legacy, BETA) for Linux x86/x86-64 - [link](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=122139).

---

### Post by Crash 0verride on 2008-10-31
Impossible there FTP site does not host the files I need in fact it does not host any of the files at all.
[ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/96.43.09/](ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/96.43.09/)

See for yourself.



Edit: There up now will post back in a few

---

### Post by Crash 0verride on 2008-10-31
NVIDIA Accelerated Graphics Driver for Linux-x86 (96.43.09)




 
  ERROR: You appear to be running an X server; please exit X before            
         installing.  For further details, please see the section INSTALLING   
         THE NVIDIA DRIVER in the README available on the Linux driver         
         download page at [www.nvidia.com](www.nvidia.com).

                                       OK
          
NVIDIA Accelerated Graphics Driver for Linux-x86 (96.43.09)




 
  ERROR: Installation has failed.  Please see the file
         '/var/log/nvidia-installer.log' for details.  You may find            
         suggestions on fixing installation problems in the README available   
         on the Linux driver download page at [www.nvidia.com](www.nvidia.com).

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2008-10-31
> **Crash 0verride said:**
> 1. My graphics card is a Nvidia 4200 Ti w/ AGP8X and there is no drivers for it. Why? in Hardy Heron and every version before that since I have been using Ubuntu HAS had it. And now I cannot play any of my favorite games on Ubuntu. I mean I can't even use Comp Fusion I mean what the hell!

From the [8.10 Release Notes]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810#nVidia%20%22legacy%22%20video%20support"): > The 71 and 96 series of proprietary nVidia drivers, as provided by the nvidia-glx-legacy and nvidia-glx packages in Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, are not compatible with the X.Org included in Ubuntu 8.10. Users with the nVidia TNT, TNT2, TNT Ultra, GeForce, GeForce2, GeForce3, and GeForce4 chipsets are affected and will be transitioned on upgrade to the free nv driver instead. This driver does not support 3D acceleration.

---

### Post by glennric on 2008-10-31
Have you tried installing the nvidia-glx-96 package?  The legacy packages aren't gone.  They have just been renamed to nvidia-glx-96 and nvidia-glx-71.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-10-31
@Crash 0verride

Here are instructions for installing your driver.

1. Remove all nvidia drivers already installed
2. Ctrl-ALt-F1 to a console
3. at the prompt type sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
4. cd to the directory you saved the driver to
5. at the prompt type chmod +x *sh
6 install the driver sudo./*sh
7. answer yes to all the prompts
8. once the install is finished type sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

If you have done everything right you should have a working desktop.

Jim

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-11-01
You may want to follow the method(s) from the nVidia section of the [Ubuntu wiki]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video").

---

### Post by wgrant on 2008-11-01
> **glennric said:**
> Have you tried installing the nvidia-glx-96 package?  The legacy packages aren't gone.  They have just been renamed to nvidia-glx-96 and nvidia-glx-71.

They aren't gone, but they're broken. They won't install. We are waiting for NVIDIA to update them.

---

