---
title: "11.10 Upgrade -  Window size"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jnmyk on 2011-10-18
Hello, and thanks for reading this.    Upgraded to 11.10 a few days ago on my stand alone single user comp.  My problem is that when I open an application or a folder, it opens full screen, not a smaller size.  At the moment I then make it smaller, and I suppose I could keep on doing this.  It does not remember the size I closed a folder or application, even if I close it with the quit option, rather than the X in the TLH.  Even more odd is that while it did this straight after I upgraded to 11.10, after a few hours it started to work OK (I surmised it had perhaps downloaded a fix unbeknown to me) but then for some unknown reason it went back to opening everything again full screen and has continued this last day or so.  Any suggestions?  A second prob is that Alien Arena has stopped working with 11.10 but this is of much lesser import and am supposing its a compatibility prob for AA.  Thanks  -  John

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-10-18
Hello and Welcome 

I had the full screen issue only with the Firefox and Opera internet browsers . What I did is resize the applications manually close and open them .

I found with both 11.04 and 11.10 if my browser exceeds a certain size on my 1280 x 1024 monitor the applications open to full screen .

As for the game , make sure it is the latest version and it Gnome 3 compatible . I have had to replace some applications due to incompatibility with Gnome 3 .

---

### Post by thatguruguy on 2011-10-18
Windows that take up 75% or more of your desktop are set to "automaximize" by default.  You can change the percentage by following these steps:

1. Install CompizConfig Settings Manager (if you don't already have it), and launch it from the dash.
2. Click on the "Ubuntu Unity Plugin" icon.
3. Click on the "Experimental" tab.
4. Change the "Automaximize" value by adjusting the scroller. You can set it as high or as low as you want.

---

### Post by jnmyk on 2011-10-18
Thanks for that FH.  Have tried your suggestion and its working, for now!  :-)  Over the last day or so I am sure I have tried similar which didnt work.  Opera and Firefox are my most used apps but am sure I tried it with Libre etc, and strangely enough one of my other games Mahjong, which I wanted to open full screen didnt, and doesnt?  Will keep in mind your comment about browser sizes I think that may be the problem.  Once again thanks  -  John

---

### Post by jnmyk on 2011-10-18
Hello Guruguy  Again, thanks for your suggestion, will do.  Dont have CompizConfig and never heard of it, previous just used the Classic desktop and was happy with it, and never had this problem.  Now it looks as if I will have to get used to Unity.  But once again, thanks, appreciate your suggestion  -  John

---

### Post by redunbar on 2012-04-11
Thanks for the suggestion, but 
1. How can I tell if I have the CompizConfig Settings Manager installed?
2. How do I go about finding it to install it if I don't?

Like many others, I'm new to Unity, and don't know my way around it yet.  This is very frustrating.


> **thatguruguy said:**
> Windows that take up 75% or more of your desktop are set to "automaximize" by default.  You can change the percentage by following these steps:

1. Install CompizConfig Settings Manager (if you don't already have it), and launch it from the dash.
2. Click on the "Ubuntu Unity Plugin" icon.
3. Click on the "Experimental" tab.
4. Change the "Automaximize" value by adjusting the scroller. You can set it as high or as low as you want.

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2012-04-11
Install CCSM via Ubuntu Software Center. Just type Compiz in the search field and it should include Compiz Config Settings Manager in the displayed list. Be very careful with what you change with CSSM as you can royally mess things up. Just follow the previous suggestion.

---

