---
title: "13.04 upgraded and all video drivers have issues"
date: 2013-06-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by need4lightspeed on 2013-06-29
I don't know how related the upgrade is and the issues but this is a new issue after I upgraded.

SO, My real big problem is the GNOME, GRUB MENU SYSTEM THINGY is gone..its like I am stuck with the most minimal options from the desktop and nothing else...no terminal...This post is from a user with experience but I feel like an 'absolute beginner' atm so I posted this issue here.

Steps as they occured of the apparent video 'menu' problem...after I upgraded to 13.04 and turned the computer off.

I had a great big 1GB Nvidia card working well enough with this Sis board and 2GB DDr2...then I had to take out some DDR2 and left it with 1.5 GB...then I decided I didn't want the over powered card in this PC.

Tried just the integrated video VGA with same LCD. It started there. NO menus or Unity or side bar or options just the desktop. I reinstalled the nvidia pcie card and same problem... It seems to happen from time to time to others with nvidia graphics cards and intel boards. I blame it on the Sis board and all the reinstalled drivers I had to do with Video and audio but now I obviously have too much cluttered drivers somewhere and it is confused and only shows the desktop.

Ask questions please.... if you know what I should do tell me thanks..

I would reinstall if I can get my files to stay(how?). What about reinstall so I know default drivers are set up again and the rest are able to be configured appropriately.

---

### Post by need4lightspeed on 2013-06-29
Should I ask somehwhere else?

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-06-29
Not yet, the person able to help you may be in Europe, where it's night right now, so it's best to wait about 24 hours until somebody responds. If not, you can try in one of the other sections, more specialised in video driver issues.

Reinstalling without losing your files is possible, but it's recommended to make backups nonetheless. In any case you should be able to get to your files using a live disk. But reinstalling may not be necessary yet.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-06-29
need4lightspeed; Hey ...

Have you looked to see what the system see for graphics and drivers ?
key combo ctl+alt+t should get you a terminal.
To see your graphics card and info:
```

sudo lshw -C display
lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga

```
Then try and match a driver to the graphics card you now have installed.

[INDENT][INDENT]we want to see[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-06-29
Have you tried resetting compiz?

```

sudo apt-get install dconf-tools

dconf reset -f /org/compiz/

```

[http://www.liberiangeek.net/2013/04/how-to-restart-unity-and-compiz-in-ubuntu-13-04-raring-ringtail/](http://www.liberiangeek.net/2013/04/how-to-restart-unity-and-compiz-in-ubuntu-13-04-raring-ringtail/)

---

### Post by need4lightspeed on 2013-06-29
sudo lshw -C display

gets:


```

*-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: G92 [GeForce GTS 250]
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: a2
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
       resources: irq:16 memory:fd000000-fdffffff memory:d0000000-dfffffff memory:fa000000-fbffffff ioport:ec00(size=128) memory:febe0000-febfffff


```



lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga

gets:



```

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation G92 [GeForce GTS 250] [10de:0615] (rev a2)
    Subsystem: eVga.com. Corp. Device [3842:1145]
    Kernel driver in use: nvidia
```

---

### Post by need4lightspeed on 2013-06-29
```

sudo apt-get install dconf-tools  dconf reset -f /org/compiz/
```

WHAT EVER THIS MEANS...IT WORKED PERFECTLY! THAT WAS SWEET. MADE MY DAY . . . THANKS!

---

### Post by newb85 on 2013-06-30
That simply reset the configuration files for Compiz to their default settings.  I'm guessing you did some customization to your system prior to the upgrade that is not compatible with the newer system.

---

