---
title: "22.10 RDP Resolution Scaling / VNC alternative?"
date: 2023-01-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mukmaster on 2023-01-26
First post,  

After installing 22.10 Kinetic and enjoying the experience locally. There has been one larger disruption to my workflow;  a Remote Desktop / VNC server that has proper scaling and dynamic resolution switching. Reliability to boot would be nice since most of the time logins fail anyways. 

Ubuntu 22.10
- Doesn't connect unless logged in (Fixed with GNOME extensions
- VNC is gone
- Doesn't switch resoltuions
- Often can log in remotely until I log into the machine anyways. 


Compared to my experience with Centos Stream 9
 - Out of the box tiger VNC scales and switches to your remote windows size everything just worked well.

So overall is there any way I can contribute to start patching this or am I just missing something in my workflow.

Thanks,
Mukmaster

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-01-27
I know nothing about 22.10. Much too new and not an LTS, so I'll not use it seriously.

I'm always confused when people use VNC or RDP, since remote X11 has been working well for 30+ yrs.  Running a remote X11 program and having it display locally is trivial through ssh.  I use this mode all day, every day. Heck, this browser is running on a different system, just being displayed on the machine I happen to be sitting behind now, all thanks to remote X11.

If you need a full desktop, which I can only see needed for remote application running on a thin client where leaving all the data on the remote system is part of corporate security, then try one of the NX implementations like x2go.  It is 2-3x faster than any VNC I've used.  When people finally use it, they say it is like walking out of a dark theater into daylight in the performance improvements.  Of course, we can't make anyone try it. They have to do that themselves.  3 tricks for x2go.  Setup ssh between the client and server first.  After you get the connection settings, be certain to set the image size limit to 4KB-jpeg, for the initial testing and lastly, set the bandwidth to be 1 less than the actual connection.

The downside to nearly all remote desktops is that Gnome3+ isn't supported. It is just too heavy.  In Ubuntu, if you require Gnome 3+ as the DE, then you're stuck with using the Gnome Remote Desktop and both the client and server have to match at the OS level.  [https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/Mutter/RemoteDesktop](https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/Mutter/RemoteDesktop)
I think KDE/Plasma isn't supported by any remote desktop due to the GPU demands.

But if you can use Mate, LXQt, XFCE, or a pure WM desktop, then x2go is the more secure, fastest, easiest, solution.

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2023-01-27
What are you wanting to do on the remote system that needs the full desktop session? There may be a sleeker solution to what you want to achieve

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-01-27
What about 'xrdp'? That has video scaling on startup... right?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-01-27
So, IME, remote desktops have 2 areas where the display resolutions must be set.

On the connection, from the client, there's usually some way to set the desired resolution.  For X/Windows client applications, this can usually be set using the  -geometry option. YMMV.

Then, after the connection, on the remote system, using the normal OS/Desktop resolution settings. xrandr or lxrandr or whatever Wayland supports.

Both are required.

Some examples:

For VNC: [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15816/changing-the-resolution-of-a-vnc-session-in-linux](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15816/changing-the-resolution-of-a-vnc-session-in-linux)
```
$ vncserver -geometry 1600x1200 -randr 1600x1200,1440x900,1024x768
$ xrandr -s 1600x1200
$ xrandr -s 1440x900
$ xrandr -s 1024x768
```

For RDP:  [https://askubuntu.com/questions/7138/how-to-change-the-screen-resolution-when-using-rdesktop](https://askubuntu.com/questions/7138/how-to-change-the-screen-resolution-when-using-rdesktop)
```
$ rdesktop -g 1280x1024 <server_ip>
```
RDP can be scaled too:
```
$ rdesktop -g 90% servername
```

If those don't work under 22.10, I don't know the answer.

---

