---
title: "Graphics Driver ?????"
date: 2008-05-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Etheredge on 2008-05-13
Mobile GM965/GL960 integrated graphics controller driver for ubuntu

how do i get it?

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-05-13
Who is the manufacturer?  Intel, or someone else?

---

### Post by ZabiGG on 2008-05-13
I guess you're looking for a driver, right?

Just checking...

---

### Post by Etheredge on 2008-05-13
yes im looking for drivers and they are intel

any help?

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-05-13
What exactly is your issue?  What have you tried and what is happening?

---

### Post by HereInOz on 2008-05-13
According to the Intel Graphics driver page:

[http://intellinuxgraphics.org/community_members.html](http://intellinuxgraphics.org/community_members.html)

the GM965 driver is already included in Gutsy, but they do not mention the GL960.  What version of Ubuntu are you running on that machine?

---

### Post by Etheredge on 2008-05-13
well for one i think i need the drivers in order to play wow with wine

because when i haev installed it and loged in to the game the load screens and all came up just fine but when the game itself was to be viewed all i had was the mouse and a black screen.

so i figured i need the drivers

---

### Post by Foster Grant on 2008-05-13
> **JoshuaRL said:**
> What exactly is your issue?  What have you tried and what is happening?

I would like to know this as well.

Do you need the driver? Or are you having a problem with the driver installed? I can think of a couple of different bugs that might be troubling you, right off the top of my head.

EDIT: And in the time I replied, so did he. Sounds like you have drivers for Linux already.

WoW under WINE ... thnking/pondering ...

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-05-13
> **Etheredge said:**
> well for one i think i need the drivers in order to play wow with wine

because when i haev installed it and loged in to the game the load screens and all came up just fine but when the game itself was to be viewed all i had was the mouse and a black screen.

so i figured i need the drivers

Okay, could you post the output of the following command:
```

gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```
I want to see what driver your system is using.

---

### Post by roderick on 2008-05-13
The Intel driver you have is correct. (asuming it loaded the Intel driver - check your Xorg.0.log file in /var/log and see that it loaded Intel and not Vesa).

You need to verify that 1) Wine is configured correctly - see the WoW entry in [http://appdb.winehq.org](http://appdb.winehq.org). 2) You have direct rendering working (glxinfo | grep direct should return Yes).

It's likely some issue with Wine or your Xorg setup.

---

### Post by Etheredge on 2008-05-13
its mainly the wow issue. because i want to give it another shot in wine but i have no idea what would be causing the issue.

ive heard many people that said they can play wow with wine so i was thinkin it may be a graphics issue because i have yet to install drivers really.

im using v8 which i think is hardy? it might be gusty im not to sure

---

### Post by Etheredge on 2008-05-13
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-05-13
Yeah, you're using Hardy.  And you're problem is probably how you have WOW configured in Wine, not the Intel driver.

---

### Post by Etheredge on 2008-05-13
do you mean the wine config? or the actuall wow config istelf?

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-05-13
I haven't ever used WOW, so I can't be absolutely positive.  But with Wine it is sometimes more of an art then a science.  It just takes looking it up on the forums and the Application database that was linked earlier in this thread to see how to set it up.

---

### Post by roderick on 2008-05-13
Please lookup wow at [http://appdb.winehq.org](http://appdb.winehq.org) (as I meantioned earlier). 

And yes, your winecfg may need tweaking and you may need other things. Search appdb for World of Warcraft and I'm sure there will be plenty of info on what to do and change.

---

