---
title: "32 bit or 64?"
date: 2009-09-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Spritegeezer on 2009-09-20
I have only one PC left running Windows.  It's running 64 bit Vista that is compatible with itself and that's about it.  The system runs an AMD dual core running at 2.6 Gig.  It has 4 Gig of RAM and a Raid 5 array of four 750 Gig drives.  It is the core of my business operation and I am at my limit with Vista.  My question is should I install 32 bit or 64 bit Jaunty.  If I go 64 bit will I have the same sort of software limitations I have with Vista?  TIA.

---

### Post by Diabolis on 2009-09-20
What software limitations have you faced in Vista? I dual boot Vista, for gaming, and Jaunty x86_64, and I haven't found any problem. The worst scenario I can think of is having an application that is not available for the 64 bit architecture, in that case you can just run the 32 version.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2009-09-20
> **Spritegeezer said:**
> If I go 64 bit will I have the same sort of software limitations I have with Vista?

Nope. 64-bit support on Linux is excellent. Anything that's available in the repos for 32-bit is available for 64-bit as well. I've been using 64-bit for a few years now and the only time i've struck problems with software is the (very) occasional 3rd-party app. I don't really see much point in installing 32-bit these days.

---

### Post by Spritegeezer on 2009-09-20
Thanks for the advice.

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2009-09-20
> **Paqman said:**
> Nope. 64-bit support on Linux is excellent. Anything that's available in the repos for 32-bit is available for 64-bit as well. I've been using 64-bit for a few years now and the only time i've struck problems with software is the (very) occasional 3rd-party app. I don't really see much point in installing 32-bit these days.


[SIZE=4]+1[/SIZE]

I find very few apps that will not work on 64 bit. I use it daily.

---

### Post by humphreybc on 2009-09-20
Definitely 64 bit, the support is great. I went from Windows Vista 32 bit to Ubuntu 64 bit and it's excellent... so fast and reliable on my laptop. I haven't had any problems with 64 bit software compatibility, only thing was flash back on 8.10 but they have fixed that now so it's easier to get 64 bit flash with the flashplugin-installer package.

---

### Post by rlogan on 2009-09-21
Go for 64 bit for sure !!

Run it on this machine everyday and this machines gets used for everything.

At least you can access all of your RAM with 64 bit

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2009-09-21
> **Spritegeezer said:**
> I have only one PC left running Windows.  It's running 64 bit Vista that is compatible with itself and that's about it.  The system runs an AMD dual core running at 2.6 Gig.  It has 4 Gig of RAM and a Raid 5 array of four 750 Gig drives.  It is the core of my business operation and I am at my limit with Vista.  My question is should I install 32 bit or 64 bit Jaunty.  If I go 64 bit will I have the same sort of software limitations I have with Vista?  TIA.

 Forget Microsoft, their 64bit OS requires a minimum of 2g ram hence you can not maximize the CPU power.  On ubuntu, the minimum ram required is actually lesser.    I suggest you use xubuntu 64-bit, I find it more light weight and 'stable' to use.

---

### Post by oziwombat on 2009-09-21
Can I use 64bit on my old 2.66 celeron desktop 1g ram & 20 gb h/d ?
Cheers Ozi

---

### Post by keplerspeed on 2009-09-21
You can run 64bit OS on any machine with a 64bit architecture cpu. Unless I am badly mistaken, the 2.66 Celeron is only 32bit cpu. To check, just see if you can boot into a 64bit ubuntu live cd!

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-09-21
> **oziwombat said:**
> Can I use 64bit on my old 2.66 celeron desktop 1g ram & 20 gb h/d ?
Cheers Ozi

I generally wouldn't recommend 64-bit for machines with 1GB of RAM. The 64-bit memory addresses themselves use up more RAM than under 32-bit. It can be done, though; my father's machine has 1.2 GB and runs 64-bit.

If it's an "old" 2.66GHz Celeron, then I bet it's 32-bit.

---

### Post by oziwombat on 2009-09-22
Thanks .
Ozi

---

