---
title: "ATI driver help"
date: 2009-02-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by chmbrs on 2009-02-16
hello forum. i have a problem with ati driver install.
after ati restricted driver install monitor was out of range.
i removed all ati drivers thru package manager. installed the 9.1 ATI driver from the website. Monitor out range. i fixed it again in the recovery mode: fix x server. now i have 800x600 res. and still no compiz.

I have:

RC410 [Radeon Xpress 200]

anyone got compiz working with this?
how?
what should i do?

Thank you!!!!

---

### Post by Bölvaður on 2009-02-16
Because of how you spoke I will assume you know what to do:


```
$ gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

do you find something like

> Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"ati"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

---

### Post by chmbrs on 2009-02-16
wow man thanks that was quick. i was messing with it and got out of range again. ill fix it in recovery. and ill do that and post result:p

---

### Post by chmbrs on 2009-02-16
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection


what do i do now?:KS

---

### Post by Bölvaður on 2009-02-16
> **chmbrs said:**
> what do i do now?:KS

Continue to look in there for the driver you are using.
It will look similar to mine with either the line

```
Driver "ati"
```

or with somethng else than "ati" replacing it.
It may be crucial to know what driver you are using.

Also you may use the [ CODE] [ /CODE] signs around your code and outputs

---

### Post by chmbrs on 2009-02-16
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection


this is the whole file. the line driver is MISSING??????????!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! oh man!  im not sure what you meant by [code] outputs?

anyway is there any way to make compiz work with this vga?
i've been looking for hours with no success.

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2009-02-16
Hi. Try this:
```
sudo aticonfig --initial -f
```
Then restart your desktop (CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE) or reboot.

---

### Post by chmbrs on 2009-02-16
i did that. ctrl+alt+backspace.
Out of range!!!!! i fixed it again with recovery.
its kinda driving me crazy.

---

### Post by malathion on 2009-02-16
I've just today started having this problem as well, though I can't say why. Were there any driver related updates that went out recently? 

Anyway, when booting I got the error on the monitor that the specified resolution was out of range and could not be displayed.

I booted into recovery mode and ran xfix. Now it displays the correct resolution, but compiz --replace returns the following error;

```
ryan@portable:~$ compiz --replace
compiz (core) - Fatal: glXCreateContext failed
compiz (core) - Error: Failed to manage screen: 0
compiz (core) - Fatal: No manageable screens found on display :0.0
```

glxinfo is also having problems with its digestion:
```
ryan@portable:~$ glxinfo
name of display: :0.0
X Error of failed request:  BadRequest (invalid request code or no such operation)
  Major opcode of failed request:  143 (GLX)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  19 (X_GLXQueryServerString)
  Serial number of failed request:  10
  Current serial number in output stream:  10
```


/etc/X11/xorg.conf contains no useful uncommented information:

```
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

Here is the result of running compiz-check (this all passed yesterday):
```
Gathering information about your system...

 Distribution:          Ubuntu 8.10
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         ATI Technologies Inc RV516 [Radeon X1300/X1550 Series]
 Driver in use:         radeon
 Rendering method:      AIGLX

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...

 Checking for texture_from_pixmap...               [FAIL]
 Checking for non power of two support...          [FAIL]
 Checking for composite extension...               [ OK ]
 Checking for FBConfig...                          [FAIL]
 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [SKIP]

At least one check had to be skipped:
 Error: Unable to detect maximum 3D texture size 

```

As suggested, I did this and restarted X via control-alt-backspace:
```
sudo aticonfig --initial -f
```
And like chmbrs, I got the out of range error again, which I had to fix in recovery with xfix. Compiz is still broken.

---

### Post by chmbrs on 2009-02-18
hey fellas. thanks for all the help. i got sick of it and just got a nvidia gs8400 card. Ati sucks i wont ever mess with any of their products.

---

### Post by Windle Poonbuntu on 2009-02-18
I had(/have) the same "Out Of Range" problem.

You can fix it by finding the frequency and refresh ranges for your monitor (from your manual if you still have it, of from the manufacturers website).  You then need to add these ranges to the config file.

For the horizontal sync range;
```

sudo aticonfig --hsync=Screen#,LowFreq-HighFreq

```
screens start at 0, and my lower and upper are 31 and 83 so its 

...--hsync=0,31-83 for me

the vertical refresh is almost the same;

```
sudo aticonfig --vrefresh=Screen#,LowRange-HighRange
```

again screens start at 0 and my numbers are 56 and 75 so its

...--vrefresh=0,56-75 for me

To make sure the driver it using these numbers, you might have to load it into the fglrx driver using

```
aticonfig --input=/etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

All this, and a lot more, is in the aticonfig help file (near the top for this bit), I'm still trying to figure it all out and get BigDesktop working on my X1600.  Look through the file yourself with;

```
aticonfig -h
```


Good luck, let me know how it goes.

---

### Post by finndo on 2009-06-23
> **RomeReactor said:**
> Hi. Try this:
```
sudo aticonfig --initial -f
```
Then restart your desktop (CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE) or reboot.

Thank you for this tid bit, I was updating and installing apps (java, flash, and such) and did a re-boot as they were not functioning (that was me hoping a reboot would help, and I forgot until much later that I also adjusted some display settings (like explosion and some of the minimize/maximize animations).  SO, when my box came back up I guess it was out on an incompatible refresh rate.  I tried reverting the xorg.conf file, no good, xfix, no good, lots of other things on the net, no good.  then I found this.  got logged back in!! 

Then, I had the "blinking" issue, and my desktop never fully loaded, I got the back ground and that was it.  I little fishing around, and then doing an "aticonfig -h" and reading the whole thing helped even more.

```

sudo aticonfig --initial=dual-head -f --desktop-setup=clone --force-monitor=tv

```

got my screen back to normal, sort of... it did default me to the max resolution of my tv (42" sony bravia, 1080p(1900x1080)) and disabled my 19" monitor.  a quick reboot into recovery mode and removed the force-monitor=tv and I my monitor still shows as disabled.

So, now I have to get my primary monitor back enabled, flash to work (kubuntu x64 9.04), java to work in firefox, sound to work (I had it working for a while, but not when any video's played, now it doesn't work at all, after a reinstall when I learned how to change my HDD from GPT to MBR), and then I will M$ free (at least on my PC, and I can start working on my 2 laptops).

but thanks for this piece, I did not know aticonfig even existed before you posted it.


----------------------------------------------------
AMD Phenom II x4 955 Black Edition 3.2 GHz (not overclocked)
OCZ Black Edition DDR3 1333MHz at 8-8-8-24 (underclocked for stability issues)
ECS A790GXM-AD3 (V1.0A) Black Edition MB with AMD 790GX chipset and ATI Radeon&#8482; HD 3300
Thermal Take V9 Black Edition case
Kubuntu 9.04 x64

built May 23rd 2009
----------------------------------------------------

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2009-06-25
> **finndo said:**
> So, now I have to get my primary monitor back enabled, flash to work (kubuntu x64 9.04), java to work in firefox, sound to work (I had it working for a while, but not when any video's played, now it doesn't work at all, after a reinstall when I learned how to change my HDD from GPT to MBR), and then I will M$ free (at least on my PC, and I can start working on my 2 laptops).

Hi. You should be able to get Flash and Java support in Firefox 64 bit from the flashplugin-installer and icedtea6-plugin available from the repositories; however, if that doesn't work correctly or you want native 64 bit Flash and the official 64-bit Sun Java plugin, read on.

To get Flash working in Firefox 64 bit, make sure you don't have the Gnash plugin installed, then open a text editor and paste the following:
```
#!/bin/bash
aptitude -y purge flashplugin-nonfree flashplugin-installer nspluginwrapper gnash mozilla-plugin-gnash gnash-common
updatedb
for x in `locate libflashplayer.so`; do rm $x; done
wget http://download.macromedia.com/pub/labs/flashplayer10/libflashplayer-10.0.22.87.linux-x86_64.so.tar.gz
tar -xvzf libflashplayer-10.0.22.87.linux-x86_64.so.tar.gz
cp ~/libflashplayer.so /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins
rm ~/libflashplayer-10.0.22.87.linux-x86_64.so.tar.gz
rm ~/libflashplayer.so
```
Save the file as **Flash64** (or however you like) in your home folder, then open a terminal and run:
```
chmod +x Flash64
```
```
sudo ./Flash64
```
Now open or restart Firefox and Flash should be working. For Java in Firefox, make sure you don't have the IcedTea plugin installed; then download the [64 bit plugin from Sun]("https://cds.sun.com/is-bin/INTERSHOP.enfinity/WFS/CDS-CDS_Developer-Site/en_US/-/USD/ViewProductDetail-Start?ProductRef=jre-6u14-oth-JPR@CDS-CDS_Developer") and save it to your home folder (make sure you select "Linux x64" from the Platform dropdown menu and check the license agreement, and on the download page get the **.bin** file, not the **.rpm.bin**); then, open a text editor again and paste the following:
```
#!/bin/bash
chmod +x jre-6u14-linux-x64.bin
mkdir /usr/lib/jvm
mv ~/jre-6u14-linux-x64.bin /usr/lib/jvm
cd /usr/lib/jvm
./jre-6u14-linux-x64.bin
ln -s /usr/lib/jvm/jre1.6.0_14/lib/amd64/libnpjp2.so /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins
```
Save the file as **Java64** (or whatever you like) in your home folder and from the terminal run:
```
chmod +x Java64
```
```
sudo ./Java64
```
Now open or restart Firefox, and the Java plugin should be working. Hopefully others can help you more regarding your sound and screen problems in Kubuntu.

---

