---
title: "8.04 Inside Windows"
date: 2008-05-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dm6257 on 2008-05-03
If I install Ubuntu 8.04 inside Windows Vista,  how do I uninstall it?

Thanks,
Dale

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-05-03
Ubuntu is not a application, it is a operating system just so you know.
Though there is wubi that allows you to install ubuntu alongside windows.

---

### Post by indiana_crook on 2008-05-03
I'm not sure if you can do it, or how... but it would be much better to run Windows in Ubuntu rather than Ubuntu in Windows.  I know you can do it with Windows XP.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-05-03
well if its a virtual machine, sure...
windows has its own set of VM software

---

### Post by alzie on 2008-05-03
It sounds like you're thinking about Wubi.  This is the link to WubiGuide Wiki.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide)

It tells about installing and uninstalling.

I hope this is a help to you

---

### Post by jbulmer08 on 2008-05-03
> **indiana_crook said:**
> I'm not sure if you can do it, or how... but it would be much better to run Windows in Ubuntu rather than Ubuntu in Windows.  I know you can do it with Windows XP.

can be done all you need to do is build a virtual machine

a pc inside ubuntu

and then install vista on it

---

### Post by dm6257 on 2008-05-08
Thanks.  WUBI is exactly what I was talking about. Just didbn't know the name.  dm6257

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2008-05-08
> **dm6257 said:**
> Thanks.  WUBI is exactly what I was talking about. Just didbn't know the name.  dm6257

[http://wubi-installer.org/images/wubi-uninstall.png](http://wubi-installer.org/images/wubi-uninstall.png)

basically go to add/remove programs in the control panel, or the vista equivalent and unistall it like any other prog ;)

---

