---
title: "[8.10] Synce does works with nautilus"
date: 2008-11-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by legolas_w on 2008-11-20
Hi
Thank you for reading my post
I followed some steps in synce wiki and I also installed every synce package available in the ubuntu repository to get Nautilus working with synce.

I could get  synce-pls to work but I can not see anything when I type synce:/// in the nautilus and instead it return an error like:

```

Nautilus cannot handle "synce" locations

```

I managed to install the try icon and it works fine when I select HAL as the communication daemon.

Thanks

---

### Post by donwinchell on 2008-12-11
I wish I had the answer, but I don't. However you are not the only one with this problem. I have done 3 or 4 complete installs using odccm and hal.  I have browsed the web and spent hours on the synCE main site. 
At present I DO have sync between a motorola Q phone and Evolution, Calendar, Contacts but not Tasks.  I also have the trayIcon running.
While I don't know for sure if this is true, getting the trayIcon running seemed to help make multiSync0.90 start working.
One problem with this is all my calendar information now shows up in my addressbook on the Q phone. This is workable for me, at least for now.

Still looking for a way to use the file browser with the phone and to be able to move files back and forth.
Sorry I can not offer more help, but maybe only to say one CAN get multi sync to work on a moto Q phone.

---

### Post by legolas_w on 2008-12-13
Hi,

Things get worse when we are using thunderbird :-( I do not know when we can have some level of integration between Thunderbird as a business email client and windows mobile as a business hand held device.


btw, what games do you have on your pocket pc?
Thanks.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2008-12-24
install this package:
```
sudo apt-get install synce-gvfs
```Then restart your computer.  It will work beautifully after that.

---

### Post by donwinchell on 2009-01-14
sudo apt-get install synce-gvfs
[sudo] password for don: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E:** Couldn't find package synce-gvfs**

BUT it does find synce-gnomevfs
but I still get "nautilus can not handle synce locations"

still don't work, but thanks for the suggestion,  I will see if I can dig this up some other way
-d

---

### Post by Soulcage on 2009-01-14
Is it synce-gnomevfs ? Found it using package search in firefox in the search bar thingy.

---

### Post by paulchinnz on 2009-09-18
> **forrestcupp said:**
> install this package:
```
sudo apt-get install synce-gvfs
```Then restart your computer.  It will work beautifully after that.

O for awesome thanks for that.

---

