---
title: "10.10 How do I connect to a Wireless network?"
date: 2011-03-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by keithgroben on 2011-03-03
I just installed Ubuntu 10.10 Desktop 64 and am connected through a wired connection. Wireless tools are installed. When I look at the available wireless networks, all it says is "device not ready" and it is grayed out. 

How do I connect to a wireless network?

---

### Post by Djalmahal on 2011-03-03
Try right-clicking the internet symbol and see if wireless is enabled.

If that doesn't work go to system>administration>synaptic and install "ubuntu-restricted-extras"

Also, find out what wireless card youhave and look it up in this forum

IN the Terminal (Application>Accesoirs>terminal) type "lspci" this will list your hardware.

I.e. my output says
03:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) (rev 01)

Then search ubuntuforums for Atheros AR9285

---

### Post by keithgroben on 2011-03-03
Thanks for your help. I am still stuck.
I did do this: 
[LIST]
[*]Try right-clicking the internet symbol and see if wireless is enabled. DONE
[*]If that doesn't work go to system>administration>synaptic and install "ubuntu-restricted-extras" DONE
[*]IN the Terminal (Application>Accesoirs>terminal) type "lspci" this will list your hardware. DONE
[/LIST]

My wireless card is: RaLink RT2860
So I searched on the forums for people with the same problems. Sure enough found a thread with a step by step solution to the problem:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1476007](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1476007)

The problem is, that when I get to the bottom of step 5:
```
sudo make
sudo make install
sudo ifconfig wlan0 down
sudo rmmod rt2860sta
```

Nothing happens after the first command. 
:(

I think I now may have messed something up. I still do not have the ability to use wireless. I will still look around the forums, but there has to be some way to fix this. I hope someone smarter than me comes along...

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-03-03
The "make" is just compiling the driver - if nothing seems to happen then it probably went okay.  The "make install" puts the compiled kernel module in the correct directory/folder.  The wlan0 down is to take your network down.  This takes away any activity to the driver that must be removed - hence the rmmod rt2860sta.
 
I would suggest after doing all of this that you just reboot.

---

### Post by keithgroben on 2011-03-03
Thank you for letting me know that I should just go ahead. I got to this step with these results:

```
sudo rmmod rt2860sta
ERROR: Module rt2860sta does not exist in /proc/modules
```

I am going to reboot and see if that fixes anything.

Still nothing. I am utterly stuck despite everyones wealth of knowledge an suggestions...

---

### Post by Djalmahal on 2011-03-03
Are you sure you are in the right directory when you execute ```
make

```

Does NOTHING happen or does is say something like "no target"?

If NOTHING happens just continue with the commands.
I'm not very experienced with this building (that's what "make" etc does, so I might not be able to help you that much from here on.

--------------

Have a look at this "newer" thread
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10494778]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10494778")

The mention a PPA here which is a "ubuntu friendly" way of packaging things instead of a "raw" way with what you trying to do with "Make"

[https://launchpad.net/~markus-tisoft/+archive/rt3090]("https://launchpad.net/~markus-tisoft/+archive/rt3090")

This refers to the Ralink 3090 but it seems to have worked on the 2860 as well, again read through the ubuntuforums-link

With adding the PPA all you should do is running the Updae-Manager and it should automatically install the necessary driver.

Good luck and write if you need more help..

---

### Post by keithgroben on 2011-03-03
```
:~$ sudo make 
make: *** No targets specified and no makefile found.  Stop
```.

I am following this tutorial: 
[http://www.ctbarker.info/2010/05/ubuntu-1004-wireless-chipsets-and-wpa.html](http://www.ctbarker.info/2010/05/ubuntu-1004-wireless-chipsets-and-wpa.html)

:confused:

I'll look into the threads you posted now.

---

### Post by keithgroben on 2011-03-03
OK, this thread is helpful, and close to the one I was following.

I  have this problem now:
```
cag-media@cagmedia-BN457AV-ABA-HPE-110t:~/2010_07_16_RT2860_Linux_STA_v2.4.0.0$ sudo rmmod rt2860sta
ERROR: Module rt2860sta does not exist in /proc/modules
```

---

### Post by Djalmahal on 2011-03-03
Alright, it seems to get complicated.

I don't know about your specific problems with compiling, so I can't help you there.

I suggest you try this out it'll take 5 minutes and if it doesn't work you can just disable that PPA

Go to [https://launchpad.net/~markus-tisoft/+archive/rt3090]("https://launchpad.net/~markus-tisoft/+archive/rt3090")

Click on "Technical details", choose your ubuntu version, add the 2 lines seperatly in System>Administration>Synaptic>Settings>Repositories>Other Software>Add

Then Reload
Then Update Mangager
Then Reboot

See if this works

Should be quick to tryout and if it doesn't work just disable the 2 lines from Software Sources

What it does is it adds extra packages to your list of software. This packages the 2 lines include are "pre-compiled" drivers from Ralink, meaning somebody did already what you are trying to "make"

Ok, hope that helps

Andreas

---

### Post by keithgroben on 2011-03-03
OK. I think we might be getting some where. Now under wireless networks it says "disconnected", instead of "device not ready".

Should networks just show up? or do I have to add them?

---

### Post by Djalmahal on 2011-03-03
You should just be able to "tick" enable wireless and it "should" work, try that

---

### Post by Djalmahal on 2011-03-03
a

---

### Post by Th3W1z4rD on 2011-03-03
> **keithgroben said:**
> Should networks just show up? or do I have to add them?

If they are hidden wireless SSID network than you need to select "connect to a hidden wireless network" and enter the SSID and password info otherwise any networks broadcasting SSID within range should show up. Just click on the network enter the password and it should connect...well it should connect if its working properly anyway ;)

---

### Post by keithgroben on 2011-03-03
Well, unfortunately, nothing is working. My next step is to purchase a different wireless card. ](*,)
Thank you for all of your help.

---

### Post by Th3W1z4rD on 2011-03-03
Linksys is always a safe bet. It's a widely used card so most systems have the drivers for them.

---

### Post by Djalmahal on 2011-03-03
Sorry to hear we couldn't make it work....

---

### Post by kingdraco41 on 2011-03-03
I've encountered this problem - the wireless application being ready, but not showing any networks - a lot on my own laptop. The issue (for me) is my laptop's heat. I can usually fix it by shutting down then waiting for it to cool off a bit, then starting up again. Could this be the issue?

---

### Post by keithgroben on 2011-03-03
> **kingdraco41 said:**
> I've encountered this problem - the wireless application being ready, but not showing any networks - a lot on my own laptop. The issue (for me) is my laptop's heat. I can usually fix it by shutting down then waiting for it to cool off a bit, then starting up again. Could this be the issue?

No, this is not the issue. It's the wireless card. Seems to be one of those rare cards. All of you guys have been super helpful, but with nearly 6 hours into trying to get this machine to work I have come to a conclusion that the card is a POS. Ubuntu is FABULOUS. I have it working on several machines, flawlessly. I have had to tweak this or that to get wireless to work.

I'm hoping that some one who is brilliant will be able to fix this with an update or something. I can hack my way through a lot of things, and I should have been able to after 6 hours. :| 

I'm going to get this machine working like a charm with a more mainstream wireless card.

---

### Post by keithgroben on 2011-03-03
> **Djalmahal said:**
> Sorry to hear we couldn't make it work....

Thanks for all your effort. You really helped me alot, even though there was not the resolution I had hoped for.

---

### Post by NCLI on 2011-03-03
If your laptop has a switch for WiFi on/off, make sure it's on. I know it sounds stupid, but trust me, you can sometimes forget it and spend hours searching for a solution and disassembling your laptop...

Not that I've ever done that :oops:

---

### Post by keithgroben on 2011-03-03
> **NCLI said:**
> If your laptop has a switch for WiFi on/off, make sure it's on. I know it sounds stupid, but trust me, you can sometimes forget it and spend hours searching for a solution and disassembling your laptop...

Not that I've ever done that :oops:

Great advice. This is a Desktop however.

---

### Post by NCLI on 2011-03-03
> **keithgroben said:**
> Great advice. This is a Desktop however.

And I now feel like an even bigger moron xD

Anyway, a new WiFi card is probably the easiest solution, yes.

---

