---
title: "9.04 How is it?"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by recycledhippy on 2009-04-25
Thought I would ask first before I install it. How is 9.04? Whats the name Jaunty Jackalope? any major known problems?

---

### Post by ScottBurnham on 2009-04-25
I have not ran into any major problems, I like that fast boot up time. Everything works so far. I am really enjoying this release! :popcorn:

---

### Post by knavarathna92 on 2009-04-25
it simultaneously fixed all the unsolved issues I had in 8.10!  I've hears people with various intel video and soundcards as well as old ATI card have had problems with video/sound.

---

### Post by Didius Falco on 2009-04-25
Have a look through the release notes, and if you don't spot anything that affects you, you should be good to go. I'd run the Live CD for a while and give it a workout - if all your hardware works okay, you should be golden.

The one thing that could be a problem would be your video card. ATI just dropped support for a bunch of older cards, but there is still an open source driver available that works okay if you are one of those affected.

I just installed the 9.4 proprietary ATI drivers and my video is working very well with it, but I'm running an ATI Radeon 4870 card.

I couldn't tell you about Nvidia cards, but a search will turn up a bunch of threads about Nvidia cards and Ubuntu 9.04. 

[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/904](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/904)

I hope this helps...

---

### Post by ShinigamiKiba on 2009-04-25
These are the specs of my Ubuntu computer
Duron 1.3GHz(used to be a fine athlon but that died in 2005)
512MB RAM
GeForce 2 MX 32MB
2x80GB HDDs one NTFS the other ext3 with ubuntu on it

8.10 with GNOME ran VERY poorly on this system(I can't use XFCE, it's all glitchy for me, on 8.10 and now on 9.04 too), I upgraded to 9.04 last night and have had a tremendous increase in performance, with XFCE I have even better performance but I can't use that as my main desktop environment because it has all kinds of glitches and annoyances for some reason.

So go ahead and upgrade, I do have some issues with VLC and Rhythmbox player now, VLC won't integrate the video in the interface which is annoying as all hell and I do have 0.9.9 and Rhythmbox stopped displaying the song info when you mouse over the tray icon if a song is playing, but aside from that everything seems to be perfect.

There is one problem that wasn't fixed for me though, but that's not that big a deal.
In 8.10 I couldn't extract rar files using the GUI, well it worked but it took too long, that problem is still present and I don't know why, but it's fine I'm used to extracting rars with the terminal which is very fast, winrar is also very fast.

---

### Post by stalkier on 2009-04-25
I am running it on two different systems and have no problems. I had to use the terminal to get startup manager but that was not a bug etc.

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-04-25
I have 9.04 on three different machines:

[LIST]
[*]Older laptop: minor annoyance with the sounds at login, they *sometimes* seem to get stuck playing from time to time. No big deal; since it's an older machine with less RAM than I'd like, I'm checking out running it with XFCE (Xubuntu's desktop & themes) to see if that helps.
[*]Newer laptop: 64-bit dual boot with VIsa: shutdown sometimes hangs at the point you'd normally expect the power to go off, no big deal, the system responds Ctrl+Alt+Del & restarts, at which shutdown can be tried again
[*]Desktop: the splash screen at startup and shutdown causes "signal out of range" errors on the monitor, a simple workaround involves editing grub's menu.lst to turn off splash.
[/LIST]
All the gripes I have so far are relatively minor, and there are probably more elegant fixes than the what I've done so far. 

Oh, I almost forgot: Wubi has had its moments for some of us (myself included): when I ran into problems with Wubi on one machine I ended up putting Ubuntu into its own partition rather than "within" Windows.

---

### Post by abhiroopb on 2009-04-25
It seems faster (including booting), but I am having the following problems:

1. Full screen video freezes.
2. Amarok 2 does not work as well, or have the same features of 1.4 (too me it seems like a step back, even though I like new software generally, it seems as though amarok2 just takes away features.
3. Brasero is buggy (it didn't burn a DVD when gnomebaker did just fine)
4. Liferea is slow (this is a documented bug, its got soemthing to do with ext4 v ext3).
5. The new libnotify is very slick, but since you can't edit it or change any of the settings, it can get a bit annoying (for example its appearing on the wrong screen of my dual monitor set-up).
6. A really strange LOUD BEEP whenever the computer starts and shutdown (no idea how to switch it off).

All these things worked fine in Intrepid. However, there are many many things that are much faster and seem "better". Hard to pick exact things, but it seems better.

---

### Post by Duskao on 2009-04-25
Seems to work very well with very little effort, but if you have an older Ati card x1xxx cards and older are now not supported by Ati, but if you don't play many graphically intensive games then the open source drivers that come with it work great. It is possible to install the older drivers from Ati, but it's a bit more of a complicated process.

---

### Post by blackened on 2009-04-25
Have had it running great since early alphas on my EEE (900 mhz Celeron). Granted I have much more than the requisite amount of RAM. Everything is smooth, even with compiz fully enabled.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-04-25
OT:

> **lisati said:**
> 
[LIST]
[*]Newer laptop: 64-bit dual boot with VIsa: shutdown sometimes hangs at the point you'd normally expect the power to go off, no big deal, the system responds Ctrl+Alt+Del & restarts, at which shutdown can be tried again
[/LIST]


You should just be able to hold the power button down for five seconds at this point to get the computer to power off.

---

### Post by Jazzy_Jeff on 2009-04-25
I am running it on 2 systems right now. I have an older acer laptop which everything installed great on. No extra work. My desktop had some issues with the live cd and I got some busybox errors. So I downloaded the alternate install cd and no problems. Everything runs great.

---

### Post by recycledhippy on 2009-04-25
thanks for the answers! keep them coming!

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-04-25
> **CatKiller said:**
> OT:

You should just be able to hold the power button down for five seconds at this point to get the computer to power off.

Yep - knew about that, but I shouldn't have to..... it's a fairly new machine. didn't have to do that with Intrepid...... It's more of an annoyance than a serious problem.

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2009-04-25
I'm running 9.04 Jaunty in conjunction with Windows right now on this box:

2.4 GHz P4
1 GB RAM
128 MB Nvidia Geforce FX 5200

And it works just peachy. Of course, I may not be the best person to ask, as I run Windows as my primary OS nowadays, but from what I see, it's a pretty solid release. I used to crash Ubuntu somehow every install, but this time, I haven't been able to crack it. So it's got the "Crasher's Seal of Approval", so to speak. :P

---

### Post by Yathi on 2009-04-26
I got a minor problem.

There is a black area near dock everytime i boot up and the compiz effects are missing. But everything comes back to normal if i click reload window manager from the compiz fusion icon. 

Does anyone have a solution for this??

I have already added **emerald --replace** line in the startup..

---

### Post by Yathi on 2009-04-26
N does grub work on ext4?? Tat is the only reason i am sticking to ext3 now.. I dont have a seperate boot partition.

---

### Post by stwschool on 2009-04-26
Running fine here. Worth a go. I'd suggest using the Live CD to check hardware compatibility (see if you can download the proprietary drivers if you need them and just make sure they work - System menu -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers and activate the ones you need) and go from there. If you like it, install but leave your windows on just in case anything goes pear-shaped (and to keep your data safe, though back it up anyway just to be safe) and see how it goes.

---

### Post by Yathi on 2009-04-26
I do not have any seperate graphic card. Only the onboard intel graphics. Compiz used to run fine earlier n even now it works perfectly after reload. Its just a nuisance.

---

### Post by waspbr on 2009-04-26
@Yathi 

this is just a quick fix for you "black line on dock" problem

press alt+F2

type gconf-editor

go to apps -> metacity -> general

enable compositing manager option

emerald will only work if compiz is enabled, if you can enable compiz then you have to use metacity. I personally like metacity, I think it is less heavy on my system. 


gl

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2009-04-26
You might try going to System-> Preferences-> Startup Applications -> Options and put a check mark by "Remember Running Apps".

---

### Post by Yathi on 2009-04-26
I solved the problem used Compiz Check.. I ran it and it said my graphics thing is blacklisted. I selected ignore blacklist and now its running as smooth as ever. Thanks a lot.:)

---

