---
title: ".MKV To .AVI?"
date: 2008-05-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by theragingking on 2008-05-31
Hey there,

I've got .MKV files that won't play with any degree of usability. I know this is a problem specifically with .MKV encoding, as I do not have this problem with any other video type. I have the codecs, and I use VLC as my primary player... But it just won't work.

Does anyone know of a reliable application capable of converting .MKV to .AVI for Ubuntu 7.04?

Please help! I need my Death Note fix! :frown:

---

### Post by tamoneya on 2008-05-31
mencode is pretty common.  Although if VLC is having trouble playing it it probably means it is corrupted.  VLC plays everything so it should handle MKV no problem. Can you confirm their integrity in any way?

---

### Post by quelx on 2008-05-31
If **VLC** doesn't work (it would be surprising), there are many resources to convert mkv > avi

[http://www.howforge.com/how-to-convert-mkv-to-avi-using-mencoder](http://www.howforge.com/how-to-convert-mkv-to-avi-using-mencoder)
[http://darebux.blogspot.com/2007/11/mkv-to-avi-under-linux.html](http://darebux.blogspot.com/2007/11/mkv-to-avi-under-linux.html)

Google terms:
*mkv avi linux*

---

### Post by theragingking on 2008-05-31
::shakes head:: I know it's specifically an MKV problem, I've had it before. It's weird... Like, literally up to a certain aspect ratio it'll work fine.

Wise screen files?

Nothing.

I know Matroska files sort of have a history of being a pain in the rear, and I sort of blame this on the fact that I'm running a scrounge machine off of a Dell Dimension 8100 base.

But I'm quite literally pennyless, so it's what I've got until someone donates a more recent set of parts.

---

### Post by shirilover on 2008-05-31
The problem is not with the container(.mkv), but more likely the video codec used(high resolution H.264).

You can use avidemux(in the repos) to convert mkv to avi.

Other options are to use MPlayer with the following switches:
```

-lavdopts lowres=1:fast:skiploopfilter=all

```
This will play the file at half-size(1280x720 -> 640x360).

---

### Post by addisor on 2008-06-02
What about if you want to play a .mkv movie in 1280x720, is this possible?

---

### Post by Aelfric5578 on 2008-06-02
> **shirilover said:**
> The problem is not with the container(.mkv), but more likely the video codec used(high resolution H.264).

You can use avidemux(in the repos) to convert mkv to avi.

Other options are to use MPlayer with the following switches:
```

-lavdopts lowres=1:fast:skiploopfilter=all

```
This will play the file at half-size(1280x720 -> 640x360).

I'm having the same problem as the original poster and this worked fine to allow me to watch the video, but I'll admit that I'm not all that familiar with MPlayer.  Out of pure curiosity is there a way to do this same down-sampling with VLC?

---

