---
title: "geforce 6200 resolution problem"
date: 2008-06-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by reptus on 2008-06-13
hy, im new in linux (ubuntu).
just install it, and now im stucking on my graphic device.
have a geforce 6200 card, installed the driver (v169.12), now i wanted to change the screen-dimension (like 1027x768), but impossible, it stucks at 640x480, aswell in the NVIDIA xserver settings the mouse plays crazy, pressing on a button, jumps the window left or right, it seems that the window is bigger as the screen, and, doesn't let me save changes or write to the backup.
thanks for any help, reptus

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-06-14
Try looking at my xorg.conf and set the sections in red in your xorg.conf:
> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Tue Mar  4 20:24:34 UTC 2008

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Tue Jan 22 19:53:46 PST 2008
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

[COLOR="Red"]Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Delta"
    ModelName      "DE-570"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 120.0
    Modeline "1024x768_70.00"  76.16  1024 1080 1192 1360  768 769 772 800  -HSync +Vsync
EndSection
[/COLOR]
[COLOR="Red"]Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 6200"
EndSection
[/COLOR]
[COLOR="Red"]Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_70 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection[/COLOR]

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection


---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2008-06-14
> **reptus said:**
> hy, im new in linux (ubuntu).
just install it, and now im stucking on my graphic device.
have a geforce 6200 card, installed the driver (v169.12), now i wanted to change the screen-dimension (like 1027x768), but impossible, it stucks at 640x480, aswell in the NVIDIA xserver settings the mouse plays crazy, pressing on a button, jumps the window left or right, it seems that the window is bigger as the screen, and, doesn't let me save changes or write to the backup.
thanks for any help, reptus

run this command in a terminal:
```
sudo displayconfig-gtk
```

and set the appropriate resolution. Tell us how it goes.

---

### Post by reptus on 2008-06-14
hy alienexplorers and peakshysteria, thanks a lot for your quick response guys. i tried the "sudo displayconfig-gtk" code at first, and worked!;
alienexplorers, i went a bit confused, i didnt know where to do this changes, i can see after the booting some of this files, but  dont know how to change those.
after changing my screen resolution, i could connect aswell my tv, that worked fine, but now to go back to my nvidia-settings configuration to change some attributes, tells me that doesnt appear any nvidia x driver, and edit your x configuration file (just run "nvidia-xconfig" as root) <- this, where im doing and how, i tried in terminal, it says that is unable to wrie to directory "/etc/x11".

thanks a lot guys, and have a nice weekend

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-06-14
When you run nvidia-settings or nvidia-xconfig make sure you run as root or your changes will not be saved.

---

