---
title: "12.04 Essentials-my specs and questions"
date: 2013-07-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kamkarot on 2013-07-14
Hello, this is not so much of an issue as just a scramble of questions to go with my first breakfast with linux:

I just installed 12.04 32 bit version because I was unsure if I could install the 64 bit version ( Is there much of a difference for me), and also I have never used linux so I am wondering what apps should I get? I would like to play skyrim, watch videos (possibly edit videos) and build up my music library with both my iPod and Sansa. 

A question of more importance though, is what drivers do I need to install? Also how to install them?

here are my specs: (if easier here is a link, [http://www.msi.com/product/nb/CX700.html#?div=Specification](http://www.msi.com/product/nb/CX700.html#?div=Specification) )

CPU Intel Core 2 duo processor

chipset SiS 672DX+Sis 968

memory DDR2 533/667 MHZ 4GB

Graphic Card ATi Mobility Radeon HD4330

VRAM DDR2 512MB

HDD SATA 500

Webcam 

In conclusion, thank you very much for your time and a quick review of my questions if I was confusing earlier: 1. 32 bit or 64 bit? 2. What apps are essential? 3. should i use playonlinux or wine or what have you for skyrim? 4. what music player is best? 5. do i need to install drivers?

Should i put each question into its own forum?

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-07-14
Answer to question one:

Both 32 and 64 bit work just fine.  I prefer 32, but just a personel choice.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2013-07-14
Since your processor is 64-bit, use 64-bit Ubuntu. PlayonLinux *is* Wine, with presets for a variety of games. 

I don't think your iPod will work on Linux.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-07-14
1: 64 bit CPU, more than 3GB memory, so best to use 64 bit OS.
2: Nothing is essential, it depends on what you want to do. Most people however want to install a flash player and a bunch of codecs. Installing the package **ubuntu-restricted-extras** from the software centre is the easy one-click way.
3: You can check for compatibility in wine [here]("http://appdb.winehq.org/"). It shows that [most versions]("http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=application&iId=13667") of skyrim have gold rating, which means it runs, although some things may be broken.
4: I can't say. I don't listen to music.
5: Maybe you have to install a driver for your graphics card, maybe for wifi (if you have that).

---

