---
title: "11.04 and Compiz."
date: 2011-08-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-08-12
Installed Compiz open gl window and compositing manager, 1:0.9.4+bzr20110606-0ubuntu1~natty2 (compiz-core) and it doesn't work in 11.04 . What is this supposed to do? I click for a watery window or a cube and nothing happens. There is no Help file to read.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-08-12
yes no files but have a video go through this 

	
[www.youtube.com/watch?v=O-iYoy1BGak](www.youtube.com/watch?v=O-iYoy1BGak)

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-08-13
> **raja.genupula said:**
> yes no files but have a video go through this 

    
[www.youtube.com/watch?v=O-iYoy1BGak]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O-iYoy1BGak")

So one has to be in Unity and not Classic for this to work?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2011-08-13
Compiz is installed by default. You don't need to use Unity.

compizconfig-settings-manager will let you adjust settings.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-08-13
> **CatKiller said:**
> Compiz is installed by default. You don't need to use Unity.

compizconfig-settings-manager will let you adjust settings.

This is what I receive when I try to install the compizconfig-settings-manager. This was not installed on my computer by default...


"Package dependencies cannot be resolved.
This error could be caused by required additional software packages which are missing or not installable. Furthermore there could be a conflict between software packages which are not allowed to be installed at the same time." "The following packages have unmet dependencies:

simple-ccsm: "

Perhaps that is why the program is not running. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2011-08-13
You're doing something peculiar; simple-ccsm isn't a dependency of compizconfig-settings-manager.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-08-13
Was the CCSM installed from the software center or did you install individual compiz packages from the synaptic package manager ?

The first method would include all needed dependencies to run the compiz CCSM and there should be no need to remove the simple-ccsm .

---

