---
title: "PPP connection"
date: 2010-11-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Iceberg76 on 2010-11-16
I am trying to connect to the Internet through a PPP connection.

I thought I had everything right and gnome-ppp appears to establish a connection, but no browser seems to recognize the connection. I have tried changing the proxy preferences of the browsers but no luck so far.

I am using a cell-phone as USB modem and I have connected with this same cell-phone before (but under Windows).

My firewall recognizes the PPP connection. (The problem is not the firewall, even if I turn it off, the problem is not solved).

Thanks in advance for any help.

This is what I get from gnome-ppp's log:

WVCONF: /root/.wvdial.conf
GNOME PPP: Connecting...
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Cannot get information for serial port.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Initializing modem.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATZ
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATZ
GNOME PPP: STDERR: OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Modem initialized.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATM1L3DP*99#
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Waiting for carrier.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATM1L3DP*99#
GNOME PPP: STDERR: CONNECT
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Carrier detected.  Starting PPP immediately.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Starting pppd at Tue Nov 16 00:04:30 2010
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Pid of pppd: 6981
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Using interface ppp0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Authentication (CHAP) started
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Authentication (CHAP) successful
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Terminate Request (Message: "No network protocols running" )
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Terminate Request (Message: "No network protocols running" )
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Disconnecting at Tue Nov 16 00:05:08 2010
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> The PPP daemon has died: A modem hung up the phone (exit code = 16)
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> man pppd explains pppd error codes in more detail.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Try again and look into /var/log/messages and the wvdial and pppd man pages for more information.

---

### Post by lkraemer on 2010-11-16
Are you sure that it used CHAP versus PAP?
Why not try running this in a Terminal Window (Console):
```
sudo pppconfig
```
And set up your pap-secrets file so it uses PAP first, then try CHAP
second (chap-secrets file).  If you mess up just delete the configuration
from the menu, and create it again.  Then try connecting with PAP.
If your loginname & password are incorrect it will terminate the connection.......

REF:
```

man pppd
man pppconfig

```

lk

---

### Post by Iceberg76 on 2010-11-16
No luck!

However, it seems to be successful using CHAP.

GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Authentication (CHAP) started
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Authentication (CHAP) successful

It even stays connected for some timeuntil the connection is cut.

---

### Post by Iceberg76 on 2010-11-18
Problem solved. I was not getting an IP due to faulty init...

---

