---
title: "14.04 Installed, Loads, Black Screen. BUMMER!!!"
date: 2014-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nivek2 on 2014-05-11
I installed Ubuntu 14.04 as I love Ubuntu.
Now when it boots up, I get a **black screen** where I figure the Login screen is.
Totally thinking about going back to 12.04.

Please help.  Ask me any info you need.

Nothing has changed Hardware wise.  It was a fresh install on my previous 12.04 partition. (formatted also)

---

### Post by boyo1991 on 2014-05-11
I prefer 12.04 mainly because of stability issues. Not sure if it is a stability issue or possibly GRUB, if this issue continues with 12.04 it would obviously have to be the later..

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-05-11
By any chance you've graphic card and you forgot to uninstall its non-free drivers before update?

---

### Post by nivek2 on 2014-05-12
Yeah, I'm probably going to go back and stick with 12.04 until they figure out some of these probs (I've seen a lot complaining about 14.04 so far)

Although if anyone else knows of any solutions for my problem, I'll keep the thread open, thanks.

---

### Post by nivek2 on 2014-05-12
> **LastDino said:**
> By any chance you've graphic card and you forgot to uninstall its non-free drivers before update?

I didn't update, I've done a fresh install, and formatted the partition.

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-05-12
Install the no-free drivers for your graphic card. That should solve the problem, I'm not sure how to do it in your particular situation, but someone else here might be able to help.

---

### Post by nivek2 on 2014-05-12
> **LastDino said:**
> Install the no-free drivers for your graphic card. That should solve the problem, I'm not sure how to do it in your particular situation, but someone else here might be able to help.

Is that an option during the initial Install of the OS?  If not, I'm not sure how to. Maybe if I boot in recovery mode and add a blacklist or something? or configure it from a live cd?  get to a CLI?  IDK

Thanks for your help

---

### Post by veddox on 2014-05-12
Are you sure that it's not simply the screen brightness that is set to zero? (I once had that ;)) Try increasing the brightness using your keyboard, and see if that works.

---

### Post by lile001 on 2014-05-12
I am sitting over here with an almost identical problem.  Can't offer much useful advice, but I will follow this thread.  

I was able to get a terminal prompt, at least, after plugging a video card from an old junk computer into the dead computer.  If this is a resource available to you, let us know it may be a way to at least see what is going on.

---

