---
title: "change monitor display"
date: 2009-12-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mydisguise09 on 2009-12-06
I have a Hansol 500A E15BL as my external monitor since my Everex Cloudbook has a cracked screen. I want the screen resolution to be 800x600 but when I go to System-->Preferences-->Display it says the monitor is unknown and the 2 options for resolution are 800x480 and 640x480. i found a couple threads explaining how to go about doing this but they weren't working, I don't know I must have done something wrong.
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver        "vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

you need to explain it step-by-step for a dummy, what code do I need to put for terminal. the reason I need it to be 800x600 is for Age of Empires 2, I downloaded it and installed it but this pops up:
Error
Could not initialize graphics system. Make sure that your video card and driver are compatible with DirectDraw.

Tanks in advance for your help :)

---

### Post by aktiwers on 2009-12-06
It seams like your video driver is not installed.

Do you know what video card you have in your PC?

You could go to System => Administration => Hardware drivers 
and see if Ubuntu detected the drivers for you.  If so, just enable them and click OK.

If not please tell us what video card you have :)

---

### Post by mydisguise09 on 2009-12-06
No proprietary drivers are in use on this system.

---

### Post by hobo14 on 2009-12-06
Try this: [Karmic resolution howto]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1346125")

Don't if it will work, but it might.

---

### Post by mydisguise09 on 2009-12-09
> **hobo14 said:**
> Try this: [Karmic resolution howto]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1346125")
 
Don't if it will work, but it might.
 
it didn't :( i only could do the first step :o the 2nd step had something about addmode but i guess my computer didn't recognize the external monitor? well i accidentally deleted /etc/init.d/gdm while to trying to follow another thread on how to change screen resolution. 
 
this is the code i did:
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo X -configure
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
 
but came up with a black screen
 
so i tried:
gedit /etc/xll/xorg.conf (came up with a GTK can't open display or something along those lines)
and
dpkg-reconfigure xorg
 
and nada
 
this is the point where i was messing around and deleted /etc/init.d/gdm
 
i tried:
sudo dpkg --audit (not sure what that was supposed to do)
 
sudo dpkg -P --force-depends gdm
sudo aptitude install gdm (that didn't work)
 
does anyone know what I could do?

---

