---
title: "Nvidia FX 5200 graphics card"
date: 2008-07-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Bloch on 2008-07-03
I put in the FX 5200 card. The systems boots and hangs at
* running local boot scripts (/etc/rc.local)

So I reboot into Recovery mode.

The system throws up a Recovery Menu with options
resume
dpkg
root
xfix
<OK>  <Cancel>
(and a few words of explanation after each)

I choose xfix and it says it is repairing the xserver, then it boots.

So far so good, but when I install the nvidia drivers and reboot into normal mode, I get the same behaviour as before.

I seem to have some conflict. I can use the system as long as I don't install the driver.

Anyone any ideas? I've tried a lot of ways of installing the drivers and it doesn't make a difference.

My /etc/rc.local contains
```
exit 0
chmod 777 /dev/video0

```

I don't know if this is relevant, but running nvidia-xconfig results in:

> Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".

VALIDATION ERROR: Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
                  Device section "Configured Video Device" must have a Driver
                  line.

Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'


---

### Post by Bloch on 2008-07-03
bump

---

### Post by Xzallion on 2008-07-03
seems xorg.conf is messed up.  post what /etc/X11/xorg.conf says and we should be able to get you up and running.

---

### Post by Bloch on 2008-07-03
Here it is:


# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Mon May 19 00:33:37 PDT 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by PinkFloyd102489 on 2008-07-03
Reinstall the graphics drivers from the site. It'll fix your xorg.conf for you.

[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/173.14.09/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-173.14.09-pkg1.run](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/173.14.09/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-173.14.09-pkg1.run)

---

### Post by mister_pink on 2008-07-03
What card were you running previously? Would be advisable to make sure those drivers are long gone.

---

### Post by Bloch on 2008-07-03
Previously I had a Nvidia Geforce 64 MB (quite old) it worked fine actually, but wasn't good enough for the special effects desktop.

I actually ran that script already exactly as per instructions. No matter what way I install the driver, the boot stalls at
* running local boot scripts (/etc/rc.local)

This also happened when I installed with envy.

---

### Post by Bloch on 2008-07-03
No joy.

I have to boot into Recovery, and then the 
Recovery Menu "repairs" with xfix, and then I get a lovely GUI, but with no driver enabled.

what does xfix do?

This is my xorg file with it working:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"pl"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by txcrackers on 2008-07-03
The older GeForce card used the nvidia-legacy driver, while the 5200 needs the nvidial-glx-new package. Try uninstalling the legacy driver, then installing the new one. You'll need to reboot after installing the new one, just to make sure the old kernel module is not loaded and the new one is. You may have to bang on the packages a bit to ensure that all the correct ones are installed.

---

### Post by nowshining on 2008-07-04
i'm using a fx5200 just fine on Gutsy - completely remove the ones from ubuntu first use the --purge option in the command line.

for 32-bit computers:

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_173.14.09.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_173.14.09.html)

u can do this, 

in the command line - backup ur xorg.conf file and when intalling - it should ask to auto config ur xorg.conf file - pick yes. :)

by the way - i gotta update i'm using the 173.14.05 ver.  & it seems to correct some errors: :P

```
   
 	Linux Display Driver - x86

Version: 173.14.09
Operating System: Linux x86
Release Date: June 11, 2008

Release Highlights

    * Fixed aliased font rendering corruption on X.Org server 1.5.
    * Fixed a display corruption problem driving two dual-link DFPs with Quadro FX 1700 GPUs.
    * Fixed a regression that prevented the X driver from starting on some GeForce FX, 6 and 7 mobile GPUs.
    * Fixed a locale-interaction issue in the nvidia-settings X server configuration file parser.
    * Added preliminary support for Linux 2.6.26.

```

by the way if u ever need to re-install the nvidia driver -update, etc.. just pass the -K option at the end. :)

---

### Post by RSingh on 2008-07-04
If not already mentioned, this is what I think should be done.

```
sudo aptitude install nvidia-glx-new
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by Bloch on 2008-07-04
```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
 is not used in Hardy. see [http://ubuntulinuxtipstricks.blogspot.com/2008/04/faq-hardy-upgrade.html](http://ubuntulinuxtipstricks.blogspot.com/2008/04/faq-hardy-upgrade.html)

It was replaced by xfix

When the boot fails as described above, and I reboot into Recovery mode, I get the Recovery Menu.

It is xfix on the recovery menu that "repairs" my system ---- by disabling the Nvidia driver!!

And the configuration tool nvidia-xconfig that breaks the system.

---

### Post by Bloch on 2008-07-04
OK when the boot using th nvidia driver (installed by either method) fails, at the line
* running local boot scripts (/etc/rc.local)
I ctrl+alt+ F1 to the terminal.

The error message visible there says:

usplash setting mode 1024x768 failed
usplash: using mode 800x600
kinit: name_to_dev_t (/dev/dis/bu-uuid/ *****various numbers*** )= sda5(8,5)
kinit: trying to resume from /dev/dis/ *** as above**
kinit: no resume image


Anyone able to understand that?
I still think it's some corrupt configuration or boot file.

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-07-04
Have you tried to install the nvidia driver via Hardware Drivers? I set up a friends computer with a fx 5200 and it works fine with the driver from there.

---

### Post by ellgor on 2008-07-04
> **Bloch said:**
> bump

Hi,

If your still having problems, try this, from a terminal (or the black rescue screen) type in -  gksudo nvidia-settings - whereupon a new screen will be presented to you, it very well may be huge so on the left are the options to play with and obviuosly you need the display settings, choose that and another screen will be presented, in the settings box in the middle will be the settings of the latest set-up (680x460 whatever) down at the bottom under this panel is the choices list (if this is blank play around until the settings are shown) choose your preference and follow whatever instructions that follow, hope this helps.

Regards, Ellgor.

---

### Post by louieb on 2008-07-04
Have that card in a couple of Desktops.  Try this after running xfix in recovery mode and resuming normal boot. open a terminal window and run  (this is new in Hardy)
```
gksudo displayconfig-gtk
```Set the monitor and resolution to whatever. and click ok. it will tell you to logout. do it.

Log back on and go to System>Hardware drivers. Enable the nivida driver and reboot. 
At this point I found the login screen had the wrong resolution. But after loging in resolution was what I wanted.  So I installed nvidia-settings. 
and ran```
 gksudo nvidia-settings
```Set it up the way you want and click save settings.

That worked on a couple of computers for me.( 1 w/FX5200 and 1 w/7300GT) .

But I tried it on an ole P2-400mHz w/FX5200 haven't got X to start after enabling the nvidia driver.  Can't hurt and from my experience you got a 2/3 chance of it working for you.

---

