---
title: "8.1 Hangs up on boot, won't go at all without AC"
date: 2009-01-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dcmpbll on 2009-01-19
I have an HP laptop that is one year old.  I installed Ubuntu 8.1 about a week ago after using a few linux programs at work and researching different OS's.  It took a bit to get the wireless working but otherwise everything went pretty smooth.

The first of two problems I have is that during the boot process as the bar is going across the mid screen it just stops.  If I hit <enter> it goes a little further and stops again.  In all I have to hit enter about ten times for it to finish booting.  After that it all works.  

The other related problem is that if I do not have it plugged in to AC power it stops again just before booting and won't go any further until I plug it in.  It also won't complete the shutdown process unless I have it plugged in, same thing, it just hangs up near completion.  As soon as I plug it in it will finish the process.

I have found where some people say they have turned off the splashy screen to see where it is stopping but I am so new I do not even know how to do that!

Please help a wannabe convert!

---

### Post by Elfy on 2009-01-19
Backup and open the file for editing

```
sudo cp /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/menu.lst.1901
gksudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```

Go down the page until you see _similar_ to, it won't be exactly the same

```
title		Ubuntu 8.10, kernel 2.6.27-11-generic
uuid		9d44e64b-0c3f-4376-93f5-7e0a4bc9afac
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-11-generic root=UUID=9d44e64b-0c3f-4376-93f5-7e0a4bc9afac ro [COLOR="Red"]quiet splash[/COLOR] 
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-11-generic
quiet
```

Remove the quiet splash - save the file and when you reboot it shoudl show where the boot hangs - make careful note of what it says.

Not sure about the AC power issue yet.

---

### Post by dcmpbll on 2009-01-19
OK, I turned off the splashy and here is what I get with the laptop plugged in:

Pauses at:
     [   2.896055] hub 2-0:1.0: unable to enumerate USB device on port 2
then at
     [  66.503750] forcedeth 0000:00:0a.0: PCI INT A -> Link[LMAC] -> GSI 20 (level, low) -> IRQ 20
then at
     [ 159.223278] ata2: PATA max UDMA/133 cmd 0x170 ctl 0x376 bmdma 0x30c8 irq 15
then at
     [ 247.850477] Uniform CD-ROM driver Revision 3.20
then after 3 <enter>s(just leaves a blank) at
     [ 328.402801] ata3.00: cofigured for UDMA/100
then at 
     [ 379.828072] ata4: SATA link down (SStatus 0 SControl 300)
then at 
     [ 433.116556] ata5: SATA link down (SStatus 0 SControl 300)
then after 3 <enter>s(just leaves a blank) at
     Begin: Running /scripts/init-bottom...
     Done.
then after 3 <enter>s(just leaves a blank) at
     * Setting preliminary keymap...
then after 3 <enter>s(just leaves a blank) it works from there.



Here is what I get with the laptop unplugged.
Pauses at:
     [   2.902280] forcedeth 0000:00:0a.0: PCI INT A -> Link[LMAC] -> GSI 20 (level, low) -> IRQ 20
then at
     [  76.577760] ata4: SATA max UDMA/133 abar m8192@0xf6484 port 0xf6484280 irq 2301
then at 
     [ 173.546080] Clocksource for tsc unstable (delta = 4398046246830 ns)
then after 2 <enter>s(just leaves a blank) at
     [ 226.775111] ata1.00: cofigured for UDMA/100
then after 2 <enter>s(just leaves a blank) at
     [ 271.752834] ata2: SATA link down (SStatus 0 SControl 300)
then after 2 <enter>s(just leaves a blank) at
     [ 336.306616] ata3: SATA link down (SStatus 0 SControl 300)
then at
     Begin: Running /scripts/init-bottom...
     Done.
then after 2 <enter>s(just leaves a blank) at
     * Setting preliminary keymap...
then after 2 <enter>s(just leaves a blank) at
     * On battery power, so skipping file system check.
then at
     * Setting up console font and keymap...
then after 2 <enter>s(just leaves a blank) at
     * Loading ACPI modules...
then after 3 <enter>s(just leaves a blank) at
     * Starting Hardware abstraction layer hald
then it won't work until I plug it in and it resumes with
     * starting bluetooth
then it works from there.


When I shut it down without power it pauses at:
     dave-laptop login:_
Nothing I do here does anything until I plug in the AC power and hit <enter>


Then, to make sure I got everything, I rebooted with it plugged in again and it and it was different.
It paused at:
     [   2.887384] hub 1-0:1.0: 7 ports detected
then at
     [  53.533736] hub 2-0:1.0: 7 ports detected
then at 
     [  99.097271] hub 3-0:1.0: 2 ports detected
then at 
     [ 173.616279] hub 4-0:1.0: 2 ports detected
then after 2 <enter>s(just leaves a blank) at
     [ 252.473085] ata4: SATA max UDMA/133 abar m8192@0xf6484 port 0xf6484280 irq 2301
then at
     [ 343.173254] usb 4-2: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 2
then at
     [ 402.062576] usb 4-2: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
then at
     [ 442.203507] ata1.00: configured for UDMA/100
then at
     [ 518.265213] ata2: SATA link down (SStatus 0 SControl 300)
then after 2 <enter>s(just leaves a blank) at
     [ 571.007793] ata3: SATA link down (SStatus 0 SControl 300)
then at
     [ 615.565800] Uniform CD-ROM driver Revision 3.20
then at
     Begin: Running /scripts/init-bottom...
     Done.
then after 3 <enter>s(just leaves a blank) at
     * Setting preliminary keymap...
then after <enter> it works from there.

Wow, that is a lot of information, hopefully it means something to you.  My last programming was BASIC back in the late 80's!

Thanks

PS. Are all those leading numbers required or are they just line numbers?

---

### Post by Elfy on 2009-01-19
Can we have some idea of what hardware you have please.

The leading numbers are timestamps.

---

### Post by dcmpbll on 2009-01-19
I am using a HP Pavillion dv6000 laptop with dual AMD64 X2 TK-57 processor.
There is 2GB of RAM.
It has an atheros wireless card and all the other usual HP features.

Anything else?

---

### Post by T_B on 2009-01-19
dcmpbll you are not alone ! Mp Compaq Persario v2000 has a similar problem and it drives you nutz. It boots off the live CD just fine & then when you install it i get the same/similar problem.[hangs]. This problem started with ubuntu 7.1 as 6.06lts worked fine. Ive never worked it out.

Lately ive been using the 'e' option on the grub screen then selecting another linux kernel ? and hitting 'b'. It seems to boot better but may also hang.

---

### Post by dcmpbll on 2009-01-20
Glad I'm not the only one.  I was wondering if it could be something in the bios?  I can't see anything that looks like it would effect it but you never know.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2009-01-21
Can you try booting with acpi off, when grub starts 

press e

move down to the kernel line - and add acpi=off to the end

then I think it's b for boot - there are options shown on the bottom of the page.

---

### Post by dcmpbll on 2009-01-21
That works GREAT!  Thank you very much!

Now to make it permanent I assume I would have to edit the menu.lst file again to make it the same, correct?  Will I have to do this every time the kernel updates?

---

### Post by nepmit on 2009-01-21
Sorry for butting in, this page should tell how to make permanent menu changes.
[http://grumpymole.blogspot.com/2007/05/ubuntu-how-to-edit-grub-boot-parameters.html](http://grumpymole.blogspot.com/2007/05/ubuntu-how-to-edit-grub-boot-parameters.html)

---

### Post by Elfy on 2009-01-21
That should do it yes - backup the file first - good practice :)

```
sudo cp /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/menu.lst.bak
```

Make sure to read the part about #kopt so it survives upgrades.

---

### Post by dcmpbll on 2009-01-21
That is what I need, but now I don't have any power saving features or battery status.  Is there a way to turn it back on after booting up?

---

### Post by Elfy on 2009-01-21
Can you post yout kernel version please - open the menu list and look in the kernel line - similar to this from the first booting version please

kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-11-generic root=UUID

To get those features you would have to turn off acpi again, but lets see what kernel version you have.

---

### Post by dcmpbll on 2009-01-21
Here is the kernel information:

kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-9-generic root=UUID=27b6d638-44d8-4a3c-95a1-9181dd312a1b ro

---

### Post by Elfy on 2009-01-22
Well there is a newer kernel in the repos - but whether it will deal with your issue or not I don't know. IF you want to try it open software sources - go to update tab and enable proposed. Let it reload - you will get a lot of new updates - I would not install them all - open the update manager and disable all the proposed updates, then find the 2.6.27-11 kernel - image I think - and allow that, it will also enable some others.

If it only enables the one update then stop - open a terminal and run

```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

When it asks say No - and then paste the output of the command here so we can see what it is offering.

You'll get a new option in you menu - if you followed the previosu post about editing the kopt line then you will need to remove noapic=off from the end again.

---

### Post by dcmpbll on 2009-01-22
I got the new kernel and had to fool around a bit to get it in the grub menu but got it to work anyway.  

It didn't make any difference in the boot problems.

There wasn't a kernel yet for the nVidea card so that caused some issues but it didn't help anyway so I went back to the current kernel.

---

