---
title: "8.04 freezing, website knocking of Firefox"
date: 2008-07-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lakelovers on 2008-07-11
I running 8.04 with all updates current. Tonight, Firefox, Google, Ebay, and all either knock off Firefox or locked up requiring a force close. I've rebooted the computer and the same thing occurred. Any idea on what might be causing this? I've not had a hang up problem for ages if ever on Ubuntu. My hard drive is only a few months old, so it should be good.

Edit: There must be a bug in Firefox. When I use Konqueror everything works fine. On Firefox, I get lots of freezes and forced quits. Is anybody else having this problem?

---

### Post by echo314 on 2008-07-14
No problems here using firefox 3 (which should be buggier then 2, if thats what you are using).

I'm wondering if this is a java/flash problem, or possibly something with an add on...Firefox itself should be relatively stable. Any error messages?

---

### Post by unutbu on 2008-07-14
lakelovers, you might want to try renaming your .mozilla directory. This will reset firefox to default settings:

Quit Firefox
mv ~/.mozilla ~/.mozilla-20080714
Restart Firefox

Firefox will make a new ~/.mozilla directory.
If this clears the problem, then try moving your bookmarks back:

Your bookmarks are saved in the file ~/.mozilla-20080714/firefox/fazmc0f6.default/bookmarks.html . (I'm not sure about fazmc0f6.default -- your directory is probably called something different.)
Move bookmarks.html back to the equivalent subdirectory under ~/.mozilla.

You'll also have to redo any other Edit>Preference settings you make have set.

---

