---
title: "12.10 to 13.0 on Toshiba C655"
date: 2013-11-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by orcalover66 on 2013-11-19
First and foremost, I am glad I made the switch (via Zorin) from MS to Ubuntu.

Recently I ugpraded from Ubuntu 12.04 to 12.10. When I made the change, I noticed that my laptop was shutting down on its own and I was being forced to do a complete manual reboot. Also, I had to dload a program which allowed me to place the icons back on my desktop along with the relevant folders I had previously.  I tried entering in manual commands to do this, but instead I used a program not unlike Ubuntu Tweak to remedy this and it worked. 

Now that I have told you the issues that have occured, and yes my notebook still occaisionally needs to be rebooted manually, is it safe for me to go ahead and upgrade to Ubuntu 13.0?  Are there any stability issues?  What would your advice be to me on this situation.  Yes, I am a noob to Ubuntu but I wasn't afraid to make the change.  Please let me know.  Thank you.

---

### Post by thatredbird on 2013-11-23
I have been using lubuntu 13:10 for three days now, its working great on my system.  I just made the switch though.  Have not had any issues yet.

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-11-23
If you are having problems with 12.10 install, then there are chances that those issues will be carried forward to 13.10. Also you cannot directly upgrade from 12.10 to 13.10 without first upgrading to 13.04. And this will be very time consuming process. Then there are no guarantees that everything will work.

I personally believe that doing a clean fresh install of 13.10, will be just that 'clean and fresh' and I recommend the same. Download a copy of 13.10, burn it to a DVD/USB, preferably USB and install 13.10.

If you have DATA to save then BACKUP first, preferably to an EXT device. Do you have a separate /home partition? If you have then you can use the same partition again with your new install, be careful and DON'T format it.

It will always be good idea to separate your DATA from the system files.
/ partition for system files
/home for your DATA or just a plain ext4 formatted partition will do. Keeping your DATA separate keeps it safe and make installing and re-installing OS easier.

If you don't have your data separate then perhaps this might be a good opportunity to separate it.

---

