---
title: "11.10 empathy 3.2.0 gtalk doesn't work"
date: 2011-10-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by hemna on 2011-10-13
I just upgraded to 11.10 and everything seems to be working ok but empathy 3.2's support for google talk.   When I bring up the accounts and select gtalk, there is no advanced section, so I can't specify talk.google.com for my google hosted domain.

---

### Post by uphAcLic on 2011-10-14
I have very big problem with empathy.. It is not only a Gtalk issue. It looks like it is about empathy and brand-new chat notification thing. Even i go online, i can not get it online, still looks offline. And even i reopen the empathy it can not get to work.

---

### Post by franuntu on 2011-10-15
I have a big similar Problem,
i installed 11.10 and Empathy doesnt even allow ICQ Chat ... meaning ... its not even possible to use ICQ ...

its just about time right ? If i wait properly, they will fix it, since something THAT big cant be just a Bug...

---

### Post by meetParantapa on 2011-10-16
I have installed Ubuntu 11.10 yesterday. While configuring Empathy for my GTalk account I also got confused by seeing the absence of advanced section. But I kept going on without it. Finally just by setting GTalk from the drop down list of available protocols and giving my user id password, it is working absolutely fine.

---

### Post by d3ngar on 2011-10-17
Might be related, might not: but I can't load the contact list from Google Talk.

I'm still on 10.04, using Empathy 2.30.3


The account says it is connected, but the time it takes to connect is so fast, I doubt it actually connects.

---

### Post by TariBuntu on 2011-10-17
Confirmed. No GTalk in Empathy for my 11.10 either.

---

### Post by hemna on 2011-10-19
I had to ditch empathy and go back to pidgin.  Empathy is useless without google talk support.

---

### Post by TariBuntu on 2011-10-19
Update: Earlier I have said Empathy does not connect at all. Well, it turns out if you leave it hanging there for long enough (say 15-30 minutes) it finally does.

That's on my 64-bit Ocelot, you might be blessed with some other behaviour, needless to say. :)

---

### Post by eltonw on 2011-10-19
> **hemna said:**
> I just upgraded to 11.10 and everything seems to be working ok but empathy 3.2's support for google talk.   When I bring up the accounts and select gtalk, there is no advanced section, so I can't specify talk.google.com for my google hosted domain.

Have you actually *tried* setting up Gtalk and connecting?

I am running Empathy and _I **am** connected to Gtal_k. YES, there is no 'advanced' setting for Gtalk (perhaps you don't *need* it?)  I simply entered my email address, then  my password, and I connected. ... if there's any problem with Empathy, it's AIM, which is now constantlly prompting me for my password. Perhaps AOL changed something in their security setup, but I have no doubt that there would be an update / fix for this.

FWIW, I am also connected with ICQ and Yahoo Chat.
It appears that Gtalk is the only  protocol missing the "Advanced" option.

---

### Post by hemna on 2011-10-19
yes I have set up google talk with empathy 3.2 and it doesn't work.   I have 2 google hosted domains that allows me to google talk with email addresses associated with those domains.  Previously, the only way to get pidgin or empathy to work with that setup is to manually set the google talk server to talk.google.com.  The server setting was in the advanced settings portion for the empathy gtalk setup.  Empathy has since eliminated the advanced settings, so it doesn't work.

---

### Post by sebastiangarciahelguera on 2011-10-20
I'm using gtalk but with gmail domain and works fine without proxy.
When i try to use a proxy no gtalk neither jabber are working.
Any ideas?

---

### Post by robytrevi on 2011-10-21
Same thing here. Oneiric with Empathy 3.2; the google talk account doesn't work, but if I use a jabber account with gmail datas it works fine.

---

### Post by mach7out on 2011-12-30
i dont understand! whats the final verdict?

I am on a new installed version of ubuntu 11.10 and cannot log into gtalk using empathy!

First comes a certificate signature thingie, then it asks for password and never logs in! even after I made app specific password in google account, and even after turning off 2 step verification!!


oh and on google results, this is an archived post! :S
any1?

---

### Post by Xceptiona1 on 2012-03-16
I am running into the same troubles.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2012-03-16
> **Xceptiona1 said:**
> I am running into the same troubles.

please start a new third with your issue details .

---

