---
title: "Get 11.10 or 10.04 for college?"
date: 2011-12-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Thrashrokz33 on 2011-12-25
I know that 10.04 is LTS and I've heard nothing but bad things about Unity and the new Ubuntu 11.04/11.10. Planning to major in Compsci at University this year and am not completely sure which version to install. I've used 11.04 in the past and it was a bit glitchy on my system, so do any of you recommend sticking with 10.04 until the next LTS comes along? I'm not completely sure about the differences between 10 and 11, but I don't plan on using Unity at all; I'll use the classic option. I'm mostly just asking for stability's sake, which will cause me the fewest issues.

I'm also going to setup a dual boot with Windows 7, so I'm also a bit iffy on the subject of updating with a dual boot as I've never upgraded Ubuntu before. If I did end up getting 11.10, would upgrading to the next release (12.04) delete files and settings from the 11.10 install, and/or overwrite my Windows partition?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-12-25
Hi, I run 11.10 with no problems, and it has better driver support for wireless cards and other hardware but you can not go wrong with 10.04 either for stability.

> would upgrading to the next release (12.04) delete files and settings from the 11.10 install, and/or overwrite my Windows partition? No not if you just upgrade to 12.04 but make sure you make a back up of your important data first in case something goes wrong, ever since unity came out upgrading has had more issues then a clean install in my opinion.
Thanks

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2011-12-26
If stability and reliability is more important to you than newer software and drivers, than I would recommend to install 10.04. It is a very good version and you can will have support until 2013, so enough time to think about upgrade options.

---

### Post by mike555 on 2011-12-26
You might want to try Xubuntu ,it's lighter and no unity/gnome .. 11.10 is good in Xubuntu

---

### Post by lswb on 2011-12-26
If getting work done is more important to you than playing with Unity or Gnome3, go with 10.4.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-12-26
> **Thrashrokz33 said:**
> ... I've heard nothing but bad things about Unity and the new Ubuntu 11.04/11.10.
There are many people who have said great things about it; they are just not as voluble as the naysayers. I love Unity, and if you look around the forums you'll find others who have said the same thing.

> **Thrashrokz33 said:**
> ... am not completely sure which version to install. I've used 11.04 in the past and it was a bit glitchy on my system
If you specifically want to use Ubuntu, do try going with 11.10, so that when 12.04 comes out you are already used to the interface. Although 10.04 was an excellent distro, it is now dated -- especially when you consider the impact that Windows 8 will have on the computing landscape.

> **Thrashrokz33 said:**
> ... I don't plan on using Unity at all; I'll use the classic option.
In that case, don't go for Ubuntu. The "classic" interface will not be supported in new versions. As mike555 says, you may prefer to use something like Xubuntu. Or try Mint (not part of the Ubuntu family, but derived from it), or OpenSUSE, Fedora, CentOS or any of a number of others. If you have an old low-spec computer, you may prefer [Lubuntu]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu").

> **Thrashrokz33 said:**
> ... I'm also a bit iffy on the subject of updating with a dual boot as I've never upgraded Ubuntu before.
Most people find a clean installation always better than an upgrade. If you are interested in stability (as I am), this is what I recommend:

[LIST]
[*]When you install, create a separate partition for your /home folder (most advanced users recommend this).
[*]When you want to upgrade to a new version, instead do a clean installation but do not format your /home folder. This will give you your "upgrade" without the problems of an upgrade.
[*]However, if you choose to encrypt your home folder, then this method won't work without hassle; in that case, just back up your data, do a clean installation, and restore your data.
[/LIST]
This seems like a crazy idea to people coming from Windows (as I once did), because a clean installation of Windows takes a long time. However, a clean installation of Ubuntu takes (depending on your hardware and broadband speed) an hour or less (including all updates), and maybe an hour to customise if you are fussy.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-12-26
To play devil's advocate, have you asked your future professor/department head which distribution(s) will be used in the classroom? You will have an easier time following along in class and completing the homework if you use the same distro. A lot of schools use distros from the RPM family (Red Hat, Fedora, CentOS, Scientific Linux, etc) as that's what you're most likely to encounter in the workplace after you graduate.

---

### Post by cortman on 2011-12-26
11.10 has worked flawlessly for me. If it works, use it!
And don't be scared of new DEs. I couldn't stand Gnome shell and Unity initially, and while I still don't like Unity, I can see that with some getting used to it could probably be quite nice.
Learn to use Gnome Shell. It's the way all distros are going anyway, and once you get through the slight learning curve, you'll find it very intuitive and elegant.

---

