---
title: "LCD TV Display Issues with HDMI and VGA"
date: 2010-02-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by eamon234 on 2010-02-01
Hi All
I've recently installed Karmic on an Acer Revo 3600 with the Nvidia Ion graphics chip.
I'm using a 19" Finlux HD ready LCD TV as a monitor but it's giving me some issues. 
If I connect through VGA it detects my monitor as a CRT and I can't seem to find a suitable resolution.
If I connect through HDMI no matter what resolution I choose text is displayed quite blurry and hard to read.
This is my corg conf:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Fri Aug 14 17:54:58 PDT 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "OEM  22_LCD_TV"
    HorizSync       15.0 - 46.0
    VertRefresh     49.0 - 61.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "ION"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; DFP: 1024x768_75 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Any help would be greatly appreciated it's driving me nuts and I've searched everywhere for a solution.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2010-02-01
i hope you installed the proprietary nvidia driver,, if yes then run nivida setting using sudo powers it will be easer than hand editing xorg

```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by eamon234 on 2010-02-01
Yes I installed the latest Nvidia driver with Envy but no matter what setting I use on X Server text is still fuzzy.

---

### Post by eamon234 on 2010-02-03
](*,)

---

### Post by LowSky on 2010-02-03
I'm trying to do this from memory (I'm at work):

right click on the desktop, go to change background, then go to the tab for Fonts choose LCD rendering. also change the DPI to a higher number it might help.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2010-02-03
Most HD-ready TV's have a native resolution of 1366x768, so that's what you want to use. Although 1360x768 seems to be more easily available on computers, and works just as well (as long as you make sure your TV is set to pixel-per-pixel mode, so that the image doesn't get scaled), you'll get 6 pixels of black border but that's really so small you'll never notice it's there..

Any other resolution and you will definitely get a blurry picture because the TV has to scale it to fit the panel's resolution.

---

### Post by eamon234 on 2010-02-08
> **LowSky said:**
> I'm trying to do this from memory (I'm at work):

right click on the desktop, go to change background, then go to the tab for Fonts choose LCD rendering. also change the DPI to a higher number it might help.

Thanks LowSky but that only increases the size of the system font - if I open a web page small text is still unreadable

---

### Post by eamon234 on 2010-02-08
> **mcduck said:**
> Most HD-ready TV's have a native resolution of 1366x768, so that's what you want to use. Although 1360x768 seems to be more easily available on computers, and works just as well (as long as you make sure your TV is set to pixel-per-pixel mode, so that the image doesn't get scaled), you'll get 6 pixels of black border but that's really so small you'll never notice it's there..

Any other resolution and you will definitely get a blurry picture because the TV has to scale it to fit the panel's resolution.

I think this where the problem may be - the TV I'm using is a widescreen 19"cheap branded one - Xserver shows it as a 22" OEM LCD - the only option close to the resolution you mentioned is 1280x720 which is the native resolution of the TV as far as I can make out but using this resolution makes no difference. The TV doesn't seem to have a pixel per pixel mode but it does say on the box that it's suitable for direct PC connection - I'm having similar problems on VGA in that Ubuntu recognises it as a CRT

---

### Post by eamon234 on 2010-02-13
Anyone else got any ideas?

---

