---
title: "new to ununtu and need help"
date: 2008-09-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Papa Hobbs on 2008-09-03
I am new to Ubuntu.  I am trying it out with the goal of moving all of my families computers from Windows to Ubuntu.  Currently I am using a 600 GHz HP Pavilion 6730 machine on a Samsung 2253 monitor.  It has a onboard Intel 810 video card.  The desktop is jerky and sometimes does not refresh like it should, leaving little boxes.  How do I get the best drivers and how do I install them.  I went to HP's site and downloaded the "independent drivers" assuming that they would install by clicking the .exe but that did not happen.  I read something about "envy" but not enough to make it clear.  Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2008-09-03
Envy is only for Nvidia and ATI cards.

Go to 

Applications->Accessories->terminal

when the terminal window opens paste the following command in an hit enter

```
 sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

```

With luck this may setup your card automatically.

---

### Post by mike555 on 2008-09-03
you should install using the program manager , do a search for what you want (intel drivers or graphics drivers or what ever)......

---

### Post by durand on 2008-09-03
Could the problem be that you're using ubuntu on a 600 Mhz (I think you mean that) computer? You might want to try xubuntu instead. >> [http://xubuntu.org/](http://xubuntu.org/)

Please post your graphics config file here:

open a terminal, then type: ```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` and paste the output here within quote tags.

---

### Post by Papa Hobbs on 2008-09-03
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
That is what I get when I do that.  The first command said fatal error.
I thank all of you for your help.  Keep it comming.

---

### Post by durand on 2008-09-03
Ok, either you have not pasted the whole output or something is seriously wrong...

There is a lot more to that file. If you want, you can just attach the whole file to this thread.

---

### Post by Papa Hobbs on 2008-09-03
[QUOTE=durand;5721420]Ok, either you have not pasted the whole output or something is seriously wrong...

There is a lot more to that file. If you want, you can just attach the whole file to this thread.[/# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
frank@PapaHobbs:~$ 
QUOTE]
Here is the whole file.

---

### Post by durand on 2008-09-03
Hmm, ok. 
Install the i810 driver first:
```
xserver-xorg-video-i810
```
Then try running the command above with a slight mod.

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

and follow it through.

I hope that configures everything correctly with that. If that didn't work, you can also try adding > Driver         "i810"
just below > Identifier "Configured Video Device"

To do this, first backup your xorg file.
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup
```
then open the file and edit it.
```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
and make the changes and save it. **Also save any other work because the next few commands will log you out.** Then press Ctrl + Alt + F1 to take you to a text console. If you want to get back to the desktop, Press Ctrl + Alt + F7 or F9, usually F7...

Anyway, in the console, login with your normal username/password.

Then run:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```
That will restart your desktop and it will hopefully use the intel drivers...If not, just wait until it crashes 3 times and you will get the failsafe x screen to get you back to where you were before. You can also press Ctrl + Alt + F1 and replace the backup file.

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

---

### Post by Paul41 on 2008-09-03
> **Papa Hobbs said:**
> I went to HP's site and downloaded the "independent drivers" assuming that they would install by clicking the .exe but that did not happen.

It's not related to your video problem but just for your information the .exe files are for windows and won't work in Linux.

---

### Post by Papa Hobbs on 2008-09-03
That did not work either.  Maybe I will try xubuntu.  Thanks for all of your help, all of you.

---

### Post by durand on 2008-09-03
Yes, please try it...It will be a lot faster for your computer as well..

---

