---
title: "9.10 not loading.... All files not accessable"
date: 2010-01-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tgriffittts on 2010-01-23
I have a problem with running 9.10 which I installed yesterday After using the older version????       When I am starting up my computer unbuntu will not load properly it goes to a error screen  saying  file systen invaild  dev/2  failed inconsistency detected now going to maintanence shield   hit con- d to cancell and retry laptop.  However the new version  will sometimes run, I was using it last night and everything was ok.  Now if I am at all able to log in and get passed the error consol I am unable to run any programs or get on line.   I have also noticed that the new version is loading files from windows (which I also have on  my computer but do not use anymore)  to my start up screen>  The proplem with that is I do not want those files uploading into ubuntu.  When using  the older version of ubuntu I had none of these problems what so ever and completly switched from windows.  I do not know what is going on but at this point would rather have just kept the 9.3 version.  I am unable to use my laptop right now because of this.      have searched forum for awnsers and have gotten bits and pieces to my problems but still un clear.       My last problem is related to resolution the settings are set at the right resolution however the screen is blown up to where a portion of the screen is not viewable and can not see toolbars.  Have played around with this for hours and unable to get anywhere.     
 
 
A BIG THANK YOU TO ANY HELP ON THIS MATTER

---

### Post by d3v1150m471c on 2010-01-23
Did you install it from a live cd? If not, do so.

---

### Post by rogue_0111 on 2010-01-23
The easy solution:

1. Back up data if you're keeping anything.
2. Do a fresh install.

Doing upgrades rarely seems to go well. It always 50/50 from my experience.

--

---

