---
title: "11.04 slower than 10.10?"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Delysid23 on 2011-05-02
I installed Ubuntu 10.10 from CD a few days ago on a 2006-era Lenovo 3000 C100 laptop, and it worked fine.  Then almost right after I'd installed it, 11.04 came out, so I upgraded.

Now 11.04 (using the Unity interface) is running very slow on this machine.  But I'd barely used 10.10 before upgrading, so I don't know if it ran any faster.

Is there a significant difference in speed/performance on an older laptop like this between 10.10 and 11.04?  Or is the Unity interface slowing things down, so maybe I should keep 11.04 but switch to classic desktop?

I wish I could give hardware details about this laptop, like processor speed, how much RAM, etc, but I can't figure out where to find that information in 11.04 Unity.

Bottom line:  if I downgrade to 10.10, will I see a significant speed/performance boost on an older laptop like this?

---

### Post by PratterFak on 2011-05-02
I think you may want to downgrade to 10.10 or 10.04 LTS. However, I'd say try the classic desktop first and see how that works for you. This isn't the first post I've seen about 11.04 being more demanding of hardware.

I peeped your LT online and found this which isn't all that powerful (well, at least for this new OS I guess)-

1.73-GHz Intel Pentium M 740 processor, 512MB of  DDR2 system memory (shared with the integrated Intel GMA 900 graphics  adapter), and a 5,400-rpm 80GB hard drive


My 11.04 is running fast and beautiful, but mine is on a 3.4Ghz QuadCore with 8GB RAM

---

### Post by Delysid23 on 2011-05-02
Thanks, PratterFak. I just figured out how to switch to the classic desktop in 11.04, and then I was able to find the hardware information for this laptop, which is:

Lenovo 3000 C100 laptop:
1.50 GHz Intel Celeron M processor
500 MB RAM
80 GB HD

It may be underpowered, but it sure is Ubuntu-friendly and hardware compatible.  Everything in 10.10 and 11.04 (both Unity & classic desktop) works perfectly.  Just too slowly, at least in 11.04 Unity.

So given the above information, will an earlier version of Ubuntu will give a significant performance boost?  Which version?  I can easily downgrade, cuz there's nothing yet on this laptop I need to save or transfer.

Meantime I'll try 11.04 classic desktop for a bit.

---

### Post by kaldor on 2011-05-02
Upgrading is never a great option. If you have the time, try backing up your files and reinstalling Ubuntu 11.04 from LiveCD. I've heard of a few other people claiming slowness after an upgrade.

---

### Post by PratterFak on 2011-05-02
No prob, Delysid23. Yea, I would also first give the 11.04 Classic a bit of a try as you noted. If that is still running slow for you, I'd try Kaldor's suggestion of doing a clean install of 11.04. If that is still running slow, I'd recommend installing the 10.04 LTS version. This will give you long term support since you won't be able to upgrade to new Ubuntu releases on that machine. I'd expect that should give you the fastest response you're going to get and by the time 10.04 LTS support ends, I'm guessing it'd be about time you'll be upgrading or already have your hardware upgraded.

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2011-05-02
Before jumping 'back' to classic you should note that most commentators suggest that Unity is very quick. There are one or two bugs drifting around concerning the graphics drivers, it might be worth exploring that first.

What are your machine specs?

---

### Post by Ken UK on 2011-05-02
I did a fresh install of 10.10 and then afew days later did one of 11.04 and its the same for me. Although our hardware will be different mine isn’t anything too amazing.

---

