---
title: ".ICEAuthority?"
date: 2008-06-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Northsider on 2008-06-10
I tried to log in to KDE as well as GNOME and I'd get an error message about /home/j/.ICEAuthority not having permission and to try deleting it.  I logged into failsafe and deleted and now I can log in fine.  What is/was this file?  Is it important?

---

### Post by rampageoberon on 2008-06-10
I think this is what you are looking for or what may be helpful.

[http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/graphicalsudo](http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/graphicalsudo)

---

### Post by Kaneda187 on 2008-06-13
how do i login and remove it?

---

### Post by Kaneda187 on 2008-06-14
im locked out of my ubuntu i cant login i get the same message, i dont kno what i did how do i fix it in failsafe mode?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-06-14
Start your computer in recovery mode, when the window pops up select terminal, make sure you are in your home directory and delete the offending file. To find out about deleting files, in a terminal type:

```
man rm
```

To scroll use the space bar, to quit use q.

Jim

---

### Post by Kaneda187 on 2008-06-15
the file is in my home directory, im toally illiterait when it comes to the terminal...:( so could anybody give me a bit of an idiot proof way of remove the file? please!! its really annoying!:confused:

---

### Post by Kaneda187 on 2008-06-15
PLEASE someone must be able to help me!:(

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-06-15
Well, if you're in failsafe mode and at the command line, to the left of the cursor you should see yourusername@name_of_your_computer. That means your in your home directory (the command line version). 

If it doesn't say that then type:
```
cd /home/yourusername
```
That means "change directory" to your home directory.

Then try the following:
```
rm .ICEAuthority
```
If that doesn't work, then type:
```
sudo rm .ICEAuthority
```

:cool:

---

### Post by Kaneda187 on 2008-06-15
Thank you very much!!:)

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2008-06-15
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=206985](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=206985)

may shed some more light on teh matter ;)

---

### Post by HaboMaster on 2008-06-18
Hi
I too have managed to mess up my login.. The problem is that I cannot chmod or chown the .ICEauthority. When doing a ls -al on my home directory i get:
-?????????  ?  ?  ?        ?            ?    .ICEauthority
-rw-r--r--  1  jk jk      50 Jun 15 22:02    .Xmodmap

I can't delete the file either.. I even tried to use vim to create a new .ICEauthority, but it couldn't write to the file..

What do I do?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2008-06-18
> **HaboMaster said:**
> Hi
I too have managed to mess up my login.. The problem is that I cannot chmod or chown the .ICEauthority. When doing a ls -al on my home directory i get:
-?????????  ?  ?  ?        ?            ?    .ICEauthority
-rw-r--r--  1  jk jk      50 Jun 15 22:02    .Xmodmap

I can't delete the file either.. I even tried to use vim to create a new .ICEauthority, but it couldn't write to the file..

What do I do?

You can go to a console (Ctrl-Alt-F1) , log in, then:

```
sudo rm -f /home/user/.ICEauthority
```

If that fails, boot to recovery mode or a live CD ...

---

### Post by Tom--d on 2008-06-18
You can do it the graphical way. 

ALT + F2
```
gksu nautilus
```

You can delete it as you are root. 
Just be careful what you delete!

---

### Post by HaboMaster on 2008-06-18
> **Tom--d said:**
> You can do it the graphical way. 

ALT + F2
```
gksu nautilus
```

You can delete it as you are root. 
Just be careful what you delete!

Thanks for quick replys!

Forgot to mention that I've tried those steps.. I'm in recovery mode and giving the rm -f command, nothing happens.

ls -la gives ls: cannot access .ICEauthority: No such file or directory

Boot with LiveCD and do fsck?

---

### Post by HaboMaster on 2008-06-18
Ok, problem solved!

I had to do two fsck:s though.. First one through LiveCD, which initiated a bootup fsck that failed. I then unmounted the fs and did another fsck and rebooted.

Then I could log right in!

Thanks for the tips!

---

