---
title: "11.10 how can add a dir to $PATH permanently"
date: 2011-12-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by REMIX8604 on 2011-12-30
Hello all,

I can add a directory to $PATH temporarily. I would like to add a directory to $PATH permanently. I was reading trying to figure it out. I think I need to edit either ~/.bashrc or .profile but cant open with gedit. and there is no ~/.bash_profile like other sites suggest to edit.

to add it temperaly I..
>PATH=$PATH:/home/username/programname/bin/

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-12-30
Yes, you are right, ~/.bashrc is the correct file to use. And you shouldn't have any problems opening it with Gedit, what exactly did you try when you weren't able to do that?

---

### Post by NilPointer on 2011-12-30
Try this in terminal:

gedit ~/.bashrc

or

nano ~/.bashrc

It should work. This file doesn't need root privileges to be edited.

---

### Post by MrWES on 2011-12-30
don't forget

```
source ./bashrc
```

to get the shell to re-read the file.

Bill

---

### Post by corncob on 2011-12-30
When  I created a ~/bin directory it was, to my surprise,  automatically added to the path.  I'm sure it was after restarting the system though.  I don't know if it would work with a subdirectory as you've indicated.

---

### Post by Lars Noodén on 2011-12-30
No.  It won't work automatically for a subdirectory of [font=Courier New]~/bin[/font].  You can see the code that added to ${PATH} in [font=Courier New].profile[/font]

---

### Post by REMIX8604 on 2011-12-31
thanks guys, 

I normally like to figure this stuff out on my own but I know these are more delicate files and I do not want to really mess anything up. exactly where and what should i put. 

To me, the .profile seems to be what I need. I don't understand a thing in .bashrc

this is my .profile
[http://pastie.org/3100239](http://pastie.org/3100239)

here is .bashrc
[http://pastie.org/3100251](http://pastie.org/3100251)

just so we are on the same page.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-12-31
Put it in .bashrc

Do not worry about messing it up, there is a default one in /etc/skel so if you mess it up beyond repair just

```
cp /etc/skel/.bashrc ~/
```

---

### Post by REMIX8604 on 2011-12-31
> **nothingspecial said:**
> Put it in .bashrc

Do not worry about messing it up, there is a default one in /etc/skel so if you mess it up beyond repair just

```
cp /etc/skel/.bashrc ~/
```
  
I didn't know there was a default one. thank you very much. I was worried if it mattered where i put it also. It was added to my PATH env list. thank you.

Also I didn't want to make a new tread for this question. Can anyone recommend a good linux/ubuntu training site. I would like to focus on learning terminal. something with tutorials to move through. I learn very hands on.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-12-31
For working with bash, the shell that Ubuntu uses by default. Start here

[http://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashGuide](http://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashGuide)

---

### Post by neostar123 on 2011-12-31
> **REMIX8604 said:**
> Hello all,

I can add a directory to $PATH temporarily. I would like to add a directory to $PATH permanently. I was reading trying to figure it out. I think I need to edit either ~/.bashrc or .profile but cant open with gedit. and there is no ~/.bash_profile like other sites suggest to edit.

to add it temperaly I..
>PATH=$PATH:/home/username/programname/bin/


You should add following code to .bashrc
```
export PATH=$PATH:/home/username/programname/bin/
```if anyhow you are not able to open it with gedit, type this :
```
echo "export PATH=$PATH:/home/username/programname/bin/" >> ~/.bashrc
```You can also add this as a superuser to /etc/bash.bashrc like this :
```
sudo echo "export PATH=$PATH:/home/username/programname/bin/" >> /etc/bash.bashrc
```Hope you find this helpful.

---

### Post by tariquex on 2011-12-31
/etc/bash.bashrc is for system wide settings, anytying you put there will apply to all users in the system.
~/.bashrc is user specific.
/etc/skel/.bashrc is the common skeleton file that gets copied over to user's home directory when you create a new user.  

So now you have a few options: 
If you install a new program and want the program to be available to all users, edit /etc/bash.bashrc
If you want this for future users, edit /etc/skel/.bashrc
if you want this for user 'a', edit /home/a/.bashrc

The content of bashrc gets executed everytime you open a new terminal. You will need to source the bashrc file for newly added things to take effect in your current termial.

---

