---
title: "IBM ThinkCentre S51/intel 910 Low Resolution"
date: 2009-06-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by silnan on 2009-06-15
Hello all,

Long time listener, first time caller...

I bought this IBM 3 months ago. It was working fine in my office. I decided to buy a new monitor and take this computer home. I have an AOC Envision L19W861. It can support 640x480 60hz, 800x600 60hz, 1024x768 60hz, 1440x900 60hz (which is recommended). When I hooked it up at home, it originally said "mode not supported" from the television. I've been fighting this for two days. As of right now, I have 800x600 on GDM. Display only shows 800x600. I've tried 915resolution, I've tried Nvidia in the xorg (even though it is an Intel chip). On my office computer, I had at least 1024x768. 

Here's my xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver        "vesa"
    Option        "UseFBDev"        "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

and here's my lspci:

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82915G/P/GV/GL/PL/910GL Memory Controller Hub (rev 04)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82915G/GV/910GL Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 04)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #3 (rev 03)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #4 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev d3)
00:1e.2 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FR (ICH6/ICH6R) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 03)
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FW (ICH6/ICH6W) SATA Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
0a:0b.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme BCM5705_2 Gigabit Ethernet (rev 03)

My goal is to go back to at least 1024x768. Please, what am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-06-15
The info I have may be real old, but you may want to try:

edit xorg.conf and change the driver from "vesa" to "intel".  You may also need to add mode lines for the resolutions you want to the monitor section.

IF the "intel" driver acts weird, try changing the driver to "i810" (this is really old info and may no longer apply).


Dave :)

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-06-15
Normally, resolution problems are caused by one of the monitor, the graphics card, or the graphics driver not passing the EDID information to X that lets it automatically set the correct refresh rate, and so it defaults to really low values that won't damage any monitors. You can manually set the values for your monitor by putting the VertRefresh and HorizSync ranges in your xorg.conf. You should be able to get these numbers from the manual or specifications for your monitor. These values go in the "Monitor" Section of xorg.conf.

You can edit xorg.conf with ```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``````
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
        HorizSync       aa-bb
        VertRefresh     cc-dd
EndSection

```You'll need to replace aa-dd with the values for **your** monitor.

According to a datasheet that I found from a quick search, the values you're looking for are

```
        HorizSync       31.5-60
        VertRefresh     56-75

```

I second that you should be using the "intel" driver.

---

### Post by silnan on 2009-06-15
Thanks anewguy & CatKiller, however no joy...

When I use either intel or i810 drivers with the refresh rates and restart, the "Ubuntu is running in graphics mode" screen appears with the error "(EE) No devices detected." I'm not sure what to do next...

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-06-15
Does it still happen with the vesa driver? What does /var/log/Xorg.0.log say?

---

### Post by silnan on 2009-06-15
> **CatKiller said:**
> Does it still happen with the vesa driver?

It boots up fine and I see the GDM at 800x600 resolution without the low graphics mode screen.
 
> **CatKiller said:**
> What does /var/log/Xorg.0.log say?


X.Org X Server 1.6.0
Release Date: 2009-2-25
X Protocol Version 11, Revision 0
Build Operating System: Linux 2.6.24-23-server i686 Ubuntu
Current Operating System: Linux shane-desktop 2.6.28-11-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 17 01:57:59 UTC 2009 i686
Build Date: 09 April 2009  02:10:02AM
xorg-server 2:1.6.0-0ubuntu14 (buildd@rothera.buildd) 
    Before reporting problems, check [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
    to make sure that you have the latest version.
Markers: (--) probed, (**) from config file, (==) default setting,
    (++) from command line, (!!) notice, (II) informational,
    (WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(==) Log file: "/var/log/Xorg.0.log", Time: Mon Jun 15 10:07:56 2009
(==) Using config file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf"
(==) No Layout section.  Using the first Screen section.
(**) |-->Screen "Default Screen" (0)
(**) |   |-->Monitor "Configured Monitor"
(**) |   |-->Device "Configured Video Device"
(==) Automatically adding devices
(==) Automatically enabling devices
(WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic" does not exist.
    Entry deleted from font path.
(==) FontPath set to:
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/misc,
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled,
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled,
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1,
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi,
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi,
    /var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType,
    built-ins
(==) ModulePath set to "/usr/lib/xorg/modules"
(II) Cannot locate a core pointer device.
(II) Cannot locate a core keyboard device.
(II) The server relies on HAL to provide the list of input devices.
    If no devices become available, reconfigure HAL or disable AllowEmptyInput.
(II) Loader magic: 0x3bc0
(II) Module ABI versions:
    X.Org ANSI C Emulation: 0.4
    X.Org Video Driver: 5.0
    X.Org XInput driver : 4.0
    X.Org Server Extension : 2.0
(II) Loader running on linux
(++) using VT number 7

(--) PCI:*(0@0:2:0) Intel Corporation 82915G/GV/910GL Integrated Graphics Controller rev 4, Mem @ 0xd0100000/524288, 0xc0000000/268435456, 0xd0180000/262144, I/O @ 0x00003800/8
(II) Open ACPI successful (/var/run/acpid.socket)
(II) System resource ranges:
    [0] -1    0    0xffffffff - 0xffffffff (0x1) MX[b]
    [1] -1    0    0x000f0000 - 0x000fffff (0x10000) MX[b]
    [2] -1    0    0x000c0000 - 0x000effff (0x30000) MX[b]
    [3] -1    0    0x00000000 - 0x0009ffff (0xa0000) MX[b]
    [4] -1    0    0x0000ffff - 0x0000ffff (0x1) IX[b]
    [5] -1    0    0x00000000 - 0x00000000 (0x1) IX[b]
(II) LoadModule: "extmod"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libextmod.so
(II) Module extmod: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.0, module version = 1.0.0
    Module class: X.Org Server Extension
    ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 2.0
(II) Loading extension MIT-SCREEN-SAVER
(II) Loading extension XFree86-VidModeExtension
(II) Loading extension XFree86-DGA
(II) Loading extension DPMS
(II) Loading extension XVideo
(II) Loading extension XVideo-MotionCompensation
(II) Loading extension X-Resource
(II) LoadModule: "dbe"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libdbe.so
(II) Module dbe: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.0, module version = 1.0.0
    Module class: X.Org Server Extension
    ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 2.0
(II) Loading extension DOUBLE-BUFFER
(II) LoadModule: "glx"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libglx.so
(II) Module glx: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.0, module version = 1.0.0
    ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 2.0
(==) AIGLX enabled
(II) Loading extension GLX
(II) LoadModule: "record"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//librecord.so
(II) Module record: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.0, module version = 1.13.0
    Module class: X.Org Server Extension
    ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 2.0
(II) Loading extension RECORD
(II) LoadModule: "dri"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libdri.so
(II) Module dri: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.0, module version = 1.0.0
    ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 2.0
(II) Loading extension XFree86-DRI
(II) LoadModule: "dri2"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libdri2.so
(II) Module dri2: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.0, module version = 1.0.0
    ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 2.0
(II) Loading extension DRI2
(II) LoadModule: "i810"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers//i810_drv.so
(II) Module i810: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.0, module version = 2.6.3
    Module class: X.Org Video Driver
    ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 5.0
(II) intel: Driver for Intel Integrated Graphics Chipsets: i810,
    i810-dc100, i810e, i815, i830M, 845G, 852GM/855GM, 865G, 915G,
    E7221 (i915), 915GM, 945G, 945GM, 945GME, 965G, G35, 965Q, 946GZ,
    965GM, 965GME/GLE, G33, Q35, Q33,
    Mobile Intel® GM45 Express Chipset,
    Intel Integrated Graphics Device, G45/G43, Q45/Q43, G41
(II) Primary Device is: PCI 00@00:02:0
(EE) No devices detected.

Fatal server error:
no screens found

Please consult the The X.Org Foundation support 
     at [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
 for help. 

The plot thickens....:p

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-06-15
> **silnan said:**
> It boots up fine and I see the GDM at 800x600 resolution without the low graphics mode screen.

Is that with the VertRefresh and HorizSync ranges specified?

btw, if you put a big chunk of text within [code] tags, it's easier to read.

Your X log looks fine up until the point that it gives up the ghost. I haven't had to configure Intel graphics, so I don't really know what else to suggest.

Did your xorg.conf always have the Driver line and the UseFBDev option, or are those things that you've added? What happens if you comment them out by putting a # at the start of the line? The only Intel xorg.conf that I've had any experience with (which worked out of the box) is extremely sparse.

---

### Post by silnan on 2009-06-15
> **CatKiller said:**
> Is that with the VertRefresh and HorizSync ranges specified?
 
Yes
 
> **CatKiller said:**
> btw, if you put a big chunk of text within [code] tags, it's easier to read.
 
Sorry about that
 
 
> **CatKiller said:**
> Did your xorg.conf always have the Driver line and the UseFBDev option, or are those things that you've added? What happens if you comment them out by putting a # at the start of the line? The only Intel xorg.conf that I've had any experience with (which worked out of the box) is extremely sparse.
 
Those options were added by ubuntu the last time I had the low resolution pop up. 
 
You've helped me out and I thank you for that, CatKiller...:D

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-06-15
> **silnan said:**
> Yes

 Rats. I was hoping that those would help you get a higher resolution.

Does adding

```
        Option          "UseEDID"                       "False"
```

to the Device section in addition to the refresh rate ranges help?

 > 
Sorry about that
 

No worries. It was just to help that I mentioned it. Those tags mean that you get a handy scrolly box around the text.

 > 
Those options were added by ubuntu the last time I had the low resolution pop up. 
 
So did commenting them out have any effect?

> You've helped me out and I thank you for that, CatKiller...:D

No problem. We're all here to help.

---

### Post by silnan on 2009-06-17
Here's the final answer for working the ThinkCentre S51 with an Intel 910 graphics card on a AOC Envision L19W861 LCD TV.

1.) Reinstalled Ubuntu 8.04: (as all of the other distros didn't help)
2.) Reinstalled 915resolution 
2b.) Went into terminal & set my mode as 1024 768 60
3.) Added my driver as "nv" as opposed to "intel"
4.) 3 finger salute
5.) low resolution mode window appeared with configure button on bottom
6.) screen mode: LCD monitor 1024x768, driver intel
7.) test
8.) WORKS!!! Trade off is the lower resolutions don't work. I don't care!

My etc/X11/xorg.conf looks like this:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Boardname    "intel"
    Busid        "PCI:0:2:0"
    Driver        "i810"
    Screen    0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
    Vendorname    "Generic LCD Display"
    Modelname    "LCD Panel 1440x900"
    Horizsync    31.5-56.0
    Vertrefresh    56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
    Gamma    1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Defaultdepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    24
        Modes        "800x600@60"    "1024x768@60"    "800x600@56"    "640x480@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
    Load        "glx"
    Load        "GLcore"
    Load        "v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

```The second issue was that because I went back to Ubuntu 8.04 instead of 8.10 or 9.04 that wireless didn't work. I followed the directions at [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-534865.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-534865.html) and subbed in the WG111v3 drivers I got from NetGear. 

and 

[SIZE=7]VICTORY!!!!!!
[SIZE=1]Four days of work over, so happy! 
Much love for CatKiller & anewguy 
:guitar:
[/SIZE][/SIZE]

---

### Post by silnan on 2009-06-19
Just as an add on, I guess ```
xrandr -s 1024 768
``` would have worked too.:lolflag:

---

