---
title: "9.04 reduce boot time"
date: 2009-07-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by timeapr on 2009-07-24
Evening Ladies/Gents.

This is my first personal move to Ubuntu, having worked on Linux (via work) in the past with minimal training and assistance. I'm running a (homemade) pc with Ubuntu 9.04 on for storing and replaying .flac music with my Squeezebox Classic (3) and Squeeze Centre.

The PC/Server is running headless with me connecting via SSH or TightVNC for configuration purposes. What I would like to do is reduce the boot time of said PC so that SWMBO won't be 'bending my ear' about the latest venture.

I have so far enabled the PC to WOL (took a while), but this is only from an 'Off' state, not suspend or hibernate as I've not managed to get  it to wake from these states. What I would like to do is reduce the boot time from about 120 seconds from the WOL  Packet being sent to something lower (but realistic). I've disabled what I can using 'BUM', however as  I'm not using the visual (GUI) side of things can I also stop this from running (and re-enable it if needed)?

Any other tips to reduce boot time and increase efficency/power saving would be great. I realise that this has probably been covered many times before, for that I apologise, however could you link to that thread/article for my referenc please?

Many thanks!

Tim (User name should be 'timearp' not timeapr'!

---

### Post by Hospadar on 2009-07-24
I would totally remove the x server, or at least don't have it start on boot time.

If it's a headless server you're wasting boot time on X (unless something actually needs X, which is unlikely).

You'll still be able to ssh into the machine and open up GUI apps with X11 forwarding (if you don't know about X11 forwarding, it's time to learn, it's way faster than VNC, look to the community docs in my sig or google, it's doable enen on windows with putty/xming or cygwin).  If at some point you find yourself needing a full X11/VNC setup, you can always start the xserver at will "sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start"

To make gdm (the gnome login manager that starts X and your session) *not* start on bootup, you can do something like "sudo update-rc.d /etc/init.d/gdm remove", you might need to add the -f flag to that.  check "man update-rc.d" for details.  You can use the same command (update-rc.d) to re-add gnome startup at a later date. (also probably re-installing the gdm package would do it).

---

### Post by timeapr on 2009-07-25
Thanks, I'll take a look!

---

### Post by mikechant on 2009-07-27
I got a big improvement in boot time by using ext4 as the root filesystem for 9.04 (went from about 30s to 20s). I only gained a couple of seconds from disabling unwanted services.

---

### Post by binbash on 2009-07-27
Using Ext4 on a server is the last thing you should do.

---

### Post by mikechant on 2009-07-28
> Using Ext4 on a server is the last thing you should do.

If we were talking about some sort of business server then I'd probably agree, but from the original description this sounds like a home server for serving up music. Not exactly critical production. And you don't have to put the data on ext4 - just the root filesystem, which you could probably reinstall/restore in minutes if there was a problem.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2009-07-28
Why reboot it atall? I have exactly the same setup at home with an old box under the stairs streaming music to my squeezeboxes, handling torrents and large downloads and backing up my data. I never turn it off.

As for turning on/off the gui side of things

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```
```

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

To forward X ```
ssh -X user@ip 
```

I also use compression and encryption

```
ssh -X -C -c blowfish user@ip
```

If you are accessing your server from another linux box it might be useful to add an alias to your .bashrc

```
nano .bashrc
``` 

and add something like

```
alias server='ssh -X -C -c blowfish user@ip'
```

That way you only have to type server to access it (you have to restart bash before a new alias will take effect, just type bash).

Also, I cannot recommend the command line app screen enough for use with a headless server. Amongst other things it lets you start something going on the server, detach the session log out, then log back in again from another computer 500 miles away the next morning and reattach that process.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-07-28
For a server file system, I would suggest using xfs, it's almost as fast as ext4, without the worries of data going missing.

---

### Post by timeapr on 2009-08-03
Indeed the box is just to stream music (and maybe video in the future). Reasons for powering off are that it isn't used that much (yet) so having it on 24/7 is a bit of a waste.

I'll have a play with the different partitions sometime, I've a spare HDD so may use that to trial. My main speed problem I think is the Mobo at the mo, cheers for your suggestions so far, I'll let you know how I get on!

---

