---
title: "K3b"
date: 2012-06-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by senorian on 2012-06-01
I was trying to back up my home folder to a dvd using k3b.
I kept getting:
"could not determine size of resulting image file"
I eventually found that removing one folder(containing a number of sub-folders and files)  from k3b allowed the burn to proceed.( there are about 2 gigs of files) 
I hope that there is a systematic way to find the problem file
Any advice would be appreciated
thanks

---

### Post by senorian on 2012-06-21
XUBUNTU 11.04
I posted this a couple of weeks ago to the multimedia forum but received no replies
I hope I have better luck here.
--------------------
k3b
I was trying to back up my home folder to a dvd using k3b.
I kept getting:
"could not determine size of resulting image file"
I eventually found that removing one folder(containing a number of sub-folders and files) from k3b allowed the burn to proceed.( there are about 2 gigs of files)
I hope that there is a systematic way to find the problem file
Any advice would be appreciated
thanks
------------------
I have finally found the file which was stopping the burn but the process of elimination was a lot of work.I am hoping that someone can tell me an easier way of identifying rogue files
Thanks

---

### Post by jmfal on 2012-06-21
The only thing I think of is that folder made the size of your file to transfer larger than the size of the DVD (I think that came out right).

I know it's a hassle but if you select a file and right click on it and  select preferences it will tell you the size of the file.

There should have been some kind of file size in the K3B window.

---

### Post by lukeiamyourfather on 2012-06-21
If you're making backups of your home directory I'd create archives first and then burn those rather than burning individual files. If you install p7zip you can create multiple part archives small enough to burn on a DVD (or any other media). There are other ways to do it too, I'm just a fan of p7zip.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-06-21
Threads merged. Please don't start more than one thread per topic; it dilutes community effort.

---

### Post by senorian on 2012-06-26
Thank you all 
 I was hoping that someone could explain the phrase that K3B offered.i.e.
"could not determine size of resulting image file"
The file did not exceed the size of the dvd (total was only 3gb)
RE: archives
would this be able to overcome the K3B problem?

Sorry. I don't understand the "threads merged" comment.
If a post does not generate any responses, how does one post to another section in the belief that the first post was to the wrong section?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-06-26
Use the 'Report Abuse' button and ask staff to move the thread.

---

### Post by jmfal on 2012-06-26
I'm sorry if my reply confused you.
If  you don't  have ' SHOW HIDDEN FILES"  in effect

when you try to move/backup it won't let you know till  you start process

---

### Post by senorian on 2012-06-30
Thank you jmfal
I excluded the "hidden files" from being copied as I don't know what theyare.
I will try including them next time.
Thanks

oldos2er
Pressing an "abuse" button when I can not see the slightest evidence of abuse is not rational. Just because I received no answer to my problem definitely does not warrant accusing people of abuse.
If they did not know how to resolve my problem they were being helpful by not offering speculative advice.
The brevity of your responses borders on rtfm

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-06-30
'Report Abuse' is not only for reporting abuse, but to bring the thread or post to the attention of staff. A polite request to then move the thread would most likely be honored.

If you are not familiar with the CoC and posting guidelines, it wouldn't hurt to review them. Any questions regarding the forum should be posted in Forum Feedback & Help.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy](http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=885580](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=885580)

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-06-30
> **senorian said:**
> 
oldos2er
Pressing an "abuse" button when I can not see the slightest evidence of abuse is not rational. Just because I received no answer to my problem definitely does not warrant accusing people of abuse.
If they did not know how to resolve my problem they were being helpful by not offering speculative advice.
The brevity of your responses borders on rtfm

The "Report Abuse" button is used to bring something to the staff's attention. It could be spam, an old thread, a thread that needs to be moved, whatever.

Also, please read this part of the [Code of Conduct]("http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy"):

> **Respect the Forum Staff: We provide a service in our free time to keep the forums running efficiently. We are all volunteers.** Feedback is welcome in Forum Feedback & Help and this is also the place to request assistance with forum software issues. If you believe an error has been made in moderation or other staff actions, please post politely in the Resolution Center and help us understand your perspective.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2012-06-30
> **senorian said:**
> 
Pressing an "abuse" button when I can not see the slightest evidence of abuse is not rational. I can understand the confusion.  The wording on that button is somewhat unfortunate... It was changed from something like "Contact Staff" a few years ago, because it invited people to use it to ask staff support questions. It is, in fact, the preferred avenue to get threads moved, renamed, or deleted... in addition to reporting spammers or other abuse.

---

