---
title: "12.10 upgrade missing unity bar and top system menu"
date: 2012-11-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by RSWH on 2012-11-17
I have upgraded from 12.04 to 12.10 32 bit. Everything seemed okay during the upgrade until Ubuntu started. The desktop does not show the Unity bar or System menu and I cannot launch any applications.

The display only shows as a laptop with a black border all around, not the 23" Viewsonic VS 13816 display that I have connected by HDMI. Graphics are RS880 AMD Radeon HD 4250.

System is a desktop with external monitor.

I have read that there are some issues with the AMD graphics and 12.10 but I cannot see any clear direction for fixing this problem using just the terminal.

Any help would be appreciated otherwise I will just go back to 12.04 where everything worked.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by highteck64 on 2012-11-17
I have had that problem myself, I would like to know any way around it to fix it

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-11-17
What happens if you choose a guest login?

---

### Post by ciphoenix on 2012-11-17
try that

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2012-11-17
Are you running the open-source or proprietary graphics?

Maybe try the other.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI")

---

### Post by nasrat on 2012-12-02
found that the unity bar disappears when running in mirror mode ... once you switch to "non mirror" mode where your external monitor (or hdmi tv) each has their own display the bar appears on both monitors.

I also noticed that non mirror mode works a lot better in this version of ubuntu (12.10) than it did with 12.04 (with an ati graphics card) ... that being said with mirror mode the unity bar is gone!?

---

### Post by nasrat on 2012-12-02
I fixed it for me.

Get to the display settings. Hit the Windows/Mac Super Key and type "displays". Click on it.

1. Now uncheck monitoring ... set the launcher to only display on your primary monitor (the one colored pink I believe) ... then hit apply. Accept that configuration.

2. Then check mirroring again ... and voila the bar should be back now! 

in my case between steps 1 and 2 I did login to a guest session but I do not think that affected anything.

---

