---
title: "9.10 doesn't connect to the internet"
date: 2010-01-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by BNZBKK on 2010-01-19
My 9.10 canonical disk doesn't connect to the internet either as disk or when installed into XP. 

8.10 connects very easily.

So what is the simple solution that I can't see ...without writing lines of code.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-01-19
I suppose it's possible that card is no longer supported (although unlikely). If you could post results of **sudo lshw -C network** (from a terminal)... Ask for help if I'm talking techno-babble ;)

---

### Post by BNZBKK on 2010-01-20
I'm not sure how to get there, is it under Applications/ Accessories/Terminal ?

---

### Post by x33a on 2010-01-20
> **BNZBKK said:**
> I'm not sure how to get there, is it under Applications/ Accessories/Terminal ?

yes.

also, are you trying the network manager or some other method?

---

### Post by BNZBKK on 2010-01-20
> **Iowan said:**
> I suppose it's possible that card is no longer supported (although unlikely). If you could post results of **sudo lshw -C network** (from a terminal)... Ask for help if I'm talking techno-babble ;)


Do I type that in ?

---

### Post by BNZBKK on 2010-01-20
> **x33a said:**
> yes.

also, are you trying the network manager or some other method?

 Yes Network Manager and filling in the info in 'DSL' which works fine for 8.10

---

### Post by VastOne on 2010-01-20
> **BNZBKK said:**
> Do I type that in ?

Yes

And when you are prompted for your password put that in and do not be alarmed that you do not "see" anything as you type it in as that is normal

Copy and paste the output of what you ran here for us to see and analyze.

---

### Post by BNZBKK on 2010-01-20
*-network
description: Ethernet interface
product: RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Epress Fast Ethernet controller
vendo: Realtek Semiconductor
physical id: 0
bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
logical name: eth0
version: 02
serial: 00:25:11:37:13:ba
size: 100MB/s
capacity: 100MB/s
width: 64 bits
clock: 33MHZ

capabillities: pm msi pciexpress msix vpd bus-master cap-list rom ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation 
configuration: autonegotiation-on broadcast-yes driver=1-8169 driverversion=2.3LK-NAPI duplex=full latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes port=MII speed=100MB/s
resources: irq=25 ioport:d800 (size=256)
memory: febff000-febfffff memory:fdff0000-fdffffff(prefetchable) 
memory: febc0000=febdffff

---

### Post by VastOne on 2010-01-20
It looks like there is an issue with this card/driver that can be fixed.

Info here - 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8581510](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8581510)

---

### Post by BNZBKK on 2010-01-20
Thank you ohhh VastOne but that only gives me lines of code and then asks me if I want to continue (Y/n) I type Y (and Enter)then it asks if I want to abort.  Typing n only gives me a blnking cursor.


Also I'm only testing 9.10 from a live CD if I installed it and download the updates etc would that be a solution ?

---

### Post by BNZBKK on 2010-01-20
Anyone ?

---

### Post by BNZBKK on 2010-01-21
!

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2010-01-21
An observation

YOUR installation of 9.10 doesn't connect to the internet.....MILLIONS of others do.

With search engines as good as they are these days, your heading could create a negative impression that's not justified.

---

### Post by llawwehttam on 2010-01-21
Installing and updating should help. Running things off the live cd never work as well as when you do an actual install.

---

### Post by BNZBKK on 2010-01-22
> **AlanR8 said:**
> An observation

YOUR installation of 9.10 doesn't connect to the internet.....MILLIONS of others do.

With search engines as good as they are these days, your heading could create a negative impression that's not justified.


My most obsequious grovelling apologies as the thread should have been 
entitled 'MY' 9.10 doesn't connect .." a polite correction would have been welcomed.

And yes I would like to be amongst those " ..MILLIONS of others.." which is why I asked for help and received possible solutions from the kind volunteers who give their time and knowledge 'free' for which I am most grateful. 

**You are the first poster here that offered no solution ! **

YOU "..could create a negative impression that's not justified.." 


If you have noticed these forums are for problems and there are hundreds, maybe thousands of threads devoted to 'solving them and most of them similarly entitled, so you had better get busy and post your truculent rant on every thread.

---

### Post by BNZBKK on 2010-01-22
> **llawwehttam said:**
> Installing and updating should help. Running things off the live cd never work as well as when you do an actual install.


Thank you for your reply, however I can't update because I can't 'connect' so I give up and I'll buy a Mac !

---

