---
title: "12.04 and unetbootin"
date: 2012-04-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-22
I know that unetbootin doesn't show 12.04 in the list of available releases yet, but I downloaded the i386 ISO of 12.04 to install on my netbook and used unetbootin to burn it to a usb flash drive and a usb microusb card in my portable card reader/writer.  Everytime I tried to install I got an error about not being able to copy some file.  So I thought ok, bad image.  I downloaded again and ran unetbootin again.  Now it goes to the purple screen with the Ubuntu and the moving dots, then goes to a busybox initramfs error saying it can't mount loop device to cow and that a device mount is using the -o option.  Doesn't matter what I do - same error.

So......I'm wondering, even though it's ubuntu, if unetbootin doesn't pull the release id down from releases, is it possible that even though it's an Ubuntu ISO it doesn't process it correctly?  If so, does anyone know how to get 12.04 onto a netbook short of using an external CD drive (which I don't have)?

Also, I must have missed it somewhere - can someone point me to the md5 for 12.04 i386 desktop image?

Thanks in advance!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by bkratz on 2012-04-22
Anewguy,   I did my install of 12.04 with unetbootin, but with the windows version.  It worked quite well with no unusual happenings.


The sum depends on what was currently in the daily image you installed.  Here is the current 

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-22
Thanks!!  It appears I should probably use the Windows version, and to top it off while I thought I was getting the most current when I downloaded from ubuntu.com, it appears there are newer versions in the link you provided!  I'm going to use one of those as well.

Thanks again!  Hope things are going great!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-04-22
Assuming that 12.04 contains the startup-disk-creator you can burn the iso file you have to a CD, boot to that on any machine with a CD drive, then run the startup-disk-creator application which will, by default, make a bootable USB live version of the running ubuntu OS.  You should then be able to use that to install to your netbook.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-04-23
You can also use the Universal USB Installer from PenDriveLinux.com.

Ubuntu 12.04 is not in their list either, but if you choose the Syslinux version at the bottom of their list, it works fine. I've used this for every 12.04 version so far without problems.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-04-24
> **ajgreeny said:**
> Assuming that 12.04 contains the startup-disk-creator you can burn the iso file you have to a CD, boot to that on any machine with a CD drive, then run the startup-disk-creator application which will, by default, make a bootable USB live version of the running ubuntu OS.  You should then be able to use that to install to your netbook.

I tried the suggestions 1 at a time and when I got to yours it worked great!  Thanks!

Mark - thanks for the suggestion - I'm definitely keeping that in mind for next time!

Dave ;)

---

