---
title: "10.04 to 10.10"
date: 2010-10-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Virtueofselfishness on 2010-10-05
i was wondering if i were to upgrade to 10.10 will all my stuff be deleted? like my pictures music movies etc

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-10-05
> i was wondering if i were to upgrade to 10.10 will all my stuff be deleted? like my pictures music movies etc

No, but back up your stuff. There are no guarantees that all will be successful. Also remove any prorprietary drivers.

---

### Post by madmax75 on 2010-10-05
Always keep backups for your important stuff, no matter what.

Usually the upgrade works, but there is no guarantee that somwthing will not go wrong.

So, do backup, and then upgrade.

Mind you, nobody is forcing you to upgrade (10.04 is a long term support release), and I would wait some time before upgrading into a new version - 10.10 is bound to have some bugs, so wait until they get ironed out.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-10-05
I agree. If you are not intending to test bugs use the stable edition at least until release day. Upgrades have had 100% success rate for me. However I always clean up spare packages before the upgrade. Backing up important files is a must with any operating system.

If you do want to do the upgrade and have a good Internet connection, test a live cd first.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-10-05
Also check out this link from fellow forum member mörgæs:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857)

Upgrades can, and do, go wrong.

As already suggested, make sure you backup first!

---

### Post by muteXe on 2010-10-05
From experience, I'd never upgrade again. Fresh install for me everytime. Just my opinion though.

---

