---
title: "11.10 guest session settings???"
date: 2011-11-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by koxx.dta on 2011-11-09
how can i set and save background and desktop settings on my guest account??? it reverts to original settings after every restart/logout

---

### Post by acrazyplayer on 2011-11-11
I think that is the point of the guest session, someone can do anything but in the end do nothing at all. get it?

---

### Post by koxx.dta on 2011-11-14
so as the owner i am not able to change guest background? purple forever?

---

### Post by acrazyplayer on 2011-11-14
Well right now I don't have a normal Ubuntu machine and I don't have a guest account but surely the easiest way would be to find where the purple wallpaper image is, save it by backing it up somewhere else, and placing the image you want in its place with the same name it had. 

If you need more help then just ask.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-11-15
All you need to do to configure the guest session (and also any new created user on the system) is to place the relevant configuration files into /etc/skel. Any files in there will be copied to any new user's home directory when it's created.

So the simplest way to configure your guest session is to create a new temporary user, configure the desktop and all program settings as you'd like them to be, and then copy all the setting files from that user's home into /etc/skel. (you can of course remove this temporary account afterwards)

Gnome also has a graphical tool for managing desktop profiles, Sabayon. I'm not sure if it works with Gnome 3, though, but you can always give it a try...

---

