---
title: "10.04 server won't connect to ethernet"
date: 2010-07-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by stevepoppers on 2010-07-25
After a thunderstorm, I restarted my little personal server and my ethernet connection is not working. ifconfig displays it, I just don't know how to get it to connect to it. I've restarted the router, unplugged the router, unplugged the computer, and the ethernet cord. I've tried the advice in the following threads to no avail.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475288](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475288)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=693188](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=693188)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1469089](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1469089)

What else can I do?

---

### Post by iponeverything on 2010-07-25
> After a thunderstorm, I restarted my little personal server and my ethernet connection is not working.

It probably took a hit during the storm. Almost every time it has happened to me, the device would show up - but no longer worked. 

Many times there will be visible burn marks on the PCB in the vicinity of ethernet port.

---

### Post by synapsys on 2010-07-25
I'd say you're best bet would be to get a pci network card and install it. I have never had problems with network cards and linux, and they are pretty cheap (around $10)

---

### Post by stevepoppers on 2010-07-26
I took a network card from another old desktop and put it in the server. It recognizes it, but doesn't use it. Same deal. I think it might be worth mentioning that the first one was built into the motherboard.

---

### Post by iponeverything on 2010-07-26
> **stevepoppers said:**
> I took a network card from another old desktop and put it in the server. It recognizes it, but doesn't use it. Same deal. I think it might be worth mentioning that the first one was built into the motherboard.

Disable the on-board one via the bios.

---

### Post by lkraemer on 2010-07-26
It is highly unlikely that a Thunderstorm just took out one device in
your home, and didn't get the doorbell, microwave, refrigerator, TV, 
along with other items.

Before trying the second Ethernet card, why don't you try this:

First we need to know what hardware your Laptop/Desktop has installed.

Just use "copy & paste" for the commands ONE AT A TIME!!!!!.
And, there is a difference in LSPCI and lspci.
```

uname -r
lspci
lspci -nn
lsusb
lshw -C network
lsmod
ndiswrapper -l
cat /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
iwconfig
ifconfig
dmesg tail
netstat -nr

```
Just copy & paste the commands in a Terminal window,
one at a time, and post the results.
(If you are using versions earlier than 9.10, or 9.04 use:
cat /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist)

When you make any changes, you can use:
```

sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart

```
to restart your networking.

**Manual Choice - Wifi:**
If you know the routers essid and the correct <interface>,
shown by using iwconfig ie wlan0, ath0, etc.... replace that
as the <interface> below:
```

sudo ifconfig <interface> down
sudo dhclient -r <interface>
sudo iwconfig <interface> essid "youressidofrouter"
sudo iwconfig <interface> mode Managed
sudo ifconfig <interface> up
sudo dhclient <interface>
iwconfig

```
example......for Airlink and Wlan0
sudo iwconfig Wlan0 essid "Airlink"

While I haven't tried the above commands on a wired Ethernet connection,
versus a Wifi connection, you should be able to follow these commands, 
modifying them for wired, and see what happens.........You can also post
the results.......someone will be able to assist.

Also, check sure your Wired Connection in:
SYSTEM -> PREFERENCES -> NETWORKING CONNECTIONS -> WIRED
You may want to look at what is there, Delete that connection and try
making a new one with the same information.  Just make sure you know
what was contained in the original.

Another option would be to use a Crossover Cable, and connect your Laptop
to the Server, set static IP addresses (Different) on both and see if you
can connect to test the Ethernet port.  That would be my first choice.
If you can PING, then it should work.

If you are using the Madwifi Drivers, and you downloaded a new Kernel,
you may have to compile the Drivers.  When you post your information we
will know more.
 
lk

---

### Post by tarps87 on 2010-07-26
> **lkraemer said:**
> It is highly unlikely that a Thunderstorm just took out one device in
your home, and didn't get the doorbell, microwave, refrigerator, TV, 
along with other items.
...

Just a comment, it would depend where the surge came from, phone/internet connection would be different to the mains supply, however I would be surprised if the network card had gone and not the modem.

Along with lkraemers suggestions you try moving the server and plugging it in in place of a computer with a working connection.

---

### Post by iponeverything on 2010-07-26
> It is highly unlikely that a Thunderstorm just took out one device in
your home, and didn't get the doorbell, microwave, refrigerator, TV,
along with other items.

It has happened to me where the Ethernet port was toasted and nothing else, including the DSL modem that spike apparently transited on its way to my computer..

---

### Post by stevepoppers on 2010-07-29
> **lkraemer said:**
> Just copy & paste the commands in a Terminal window

> **stevepoppers said:**
> server

=/

---

