---
title: "10.04 ... update manager, just proceed (fresh from the oven)"
date: 2012-06-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by czgirb on 2012-06-05
> 
Failed to fetch [http://ppa.launchpad.net/otto-kesselgulasch/gimp/ubuntu/dists/lucid/main/binary-i386/Packages.gz](http://ppa.launchpad.net/otto-kesselgulasch/gimp/ubuntu/dists/lucid/main/binary-i386/Packages.gz)  404  Not Found
Failed to fetch [http://ppa.launchpad.net/sevenmachines/flash/ubuntu/dists/lucid/main/binary-i386/Packages.gz](http://ppa.launchpad.net/sevenmachines/flash/ubuntu/dists/lucid/main/binary-i386/Packages.gz)  404  Not Found
Some index files failed to download, they have been ignored, or old ones used instead.


What it means? how to solved it?
Please guide me ...
Thank you

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2012-06-05
looking like server down temporarily  .
you have two options 
1 > retry doing updating after sometime .
if error still exists
2 > Update manager -> settings -> Ubuntu Software -> Download From : (Here change the server to best server or main server and try again)

---

### Post by Enigmapond on 2012-06-05
The first source for GIMP...there is no support for Lucid here. The second is a deprecated source. You need to remove both of these lines from your sources.list and that will solve your problem.

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-06-05
> **Enigmapond said:**
> ...there is no support for Lucid here. 

[What?]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LTS")

FYI OP, you can go open Synaptic Package Manager, select Settings>Repositories>Other Software and uncheck the repositories that give the errors. Save and continue working. Good luck!

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-06-06
> **cortman said:**
> [What?]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LTS")

I think they meant "That PPA does not support Lucid anymore".

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2012-06-06
Those two are PPAs that no longer provide packages for Lucid. Remove them from Software Sources.

---

### Post by z3nhakr on 2012-06-06
10.04 is outdated and this might be the cause to your inability to update. i would recommend upgrading to the new 12.04 LTS

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2012-06-06
Yeah i support with upgrading to 12.04 to experience the features:)

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-06-06
> **3rdalbum said:**
> I think they meant "That PPA does not support Lucid anymore".

Ohhhhh ok. Thanks for pointing that out.


> **z3nhakr said:**
> 10.04 is outdated and this might be the cause to your inability to update. i would recommend upgrading to the new 12.04 LTS

This however is most certainly not true.

---

### Post by Zill on 2012-06-06
> **z3nhakr said:**
> 10.04 is outdated and this might be the cause to your inability to update...
Not true!  Ubuntu 10.04 (Lucid) is a current stable release that is fully supported until April 2013 (Desktop) or April 2015 (Server).

See [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases")

---

### Post by Enigmapond on 2012-06-06
> **cortman said:**
> [What?]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LTS")

FYI OP, you can go open Synaptic Package Manager, select Settings>Repositories>Other Software and uncheck the repositories that give the errors. Save and continue working. Good luck!

That GIMP PPA doesn't have packages for Lucid...that's what I meant. But don't take my word for it...go there and look for yourself. If you change the "Lucid" in the URL to "Precise" it downloads just fine.

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-06-06
> **Enigmapond said:**
> That GIMP PPA doesn't have packages for Lucid...that's what I meant. But don't take my word for it...go there and look for yourself. If you change the "Lucid" in the URL to "Precise" it downloads just fine.

I misunderstood. I believe you're correct. :)

---

