---
title: "11.04 unity not working"
date: 2011-08-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kemilk on 2011-08-28
Just loaded ubunta 11.04 but the unity did not  work so i have the classic veiw
and is there  any anti virus which will work with it
thanks

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-08-28
Your computer may not be able to run unity;  my main machine can not do so either, though it does not bother me as I don't like unity.  This is probably the graphic card which is the problem, so make sure you have installed any proprietary graphics driver available from **System->Administration->Additional drivers** and see if that helps.  If it does not make any difference there is nothing you can do.
[COLOR=Red]
EDIT: I forgot about **unity-2d** mentioned below by the 3rdalbum, mainly because I don't like unity and don't use it[/COLOR].

For virus scanning there are several applications available:-
**clamav**, which is in the repos along with some GUI packages eg klamav and clamtk, plus other proprietary apps, eg
**AVG**
but in fact there are no viruses for linux at present, so you may not need anything.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-08-28
> **kemilk said:**
> Just loaded ubunta 11.04 but the unity did not  work so i have the classic veiw
and is there  any anti virus which will work with it
thanks

Unity only works with 3D acceleration. If you have a Nvidia graphics card or recent ATI card, you need to enable 3D acceleration from the Additional Drivers program. When this is enabled, Unity should work.

If you are using some horrible graphics processor like a VIA, SiS or earlier ATI card, then you might not be able to get sufficient 3D capability for regular Unity to work. There is, however, a 2D version of Unity that's pretty good, and can be installed from the Ubuntu repositories (it's called unity-2d). when installed, you can choose it at the login screen. It looks nearly identical to the 3D version, but missing a few special effects. It should run on any graphics card.

As for your second question, you know that Windows programs only run on Windows. Well, the same thing applies for viruses: Windows viruses only run on Windows. There are no Linux viruses at present; Linux is built fairly securely as to make virus-writing difficult, and there are other factors that stop people writing viruses for Linux.

So, basically, you don't need an anti-virus program. It doesn't make your Linux install any more secure. However, if you REALLY need to scan some files for Windows viruses (for example, if those files originated from a Windows computer and you're about to pass them on to another Windows user) then you can install KlamAV or AVG.

It's like the man who brought a reptile disease to a new country - the disease doesn't affect him, and the only way he can be a "carrier" of it is to actually carry it into the country inside an infected snake. The disease doesn't live inside him.

---

### Post by corncob on 2011-08-28
I use clamav to scan the windows partition on my dual-boot computers.  One time my wife's windows got so bad that you couldn't do anything with it.  I scanned it from the Ubuntu partition and clamav quarantined 50 files and got it working again.

---

