---
title: "After ubuntu upgrade, no internet connection via wlan"
date: 2012-11-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by martinilinski on 2012-11-10
Hallo,

after upgrading ubuntu to 12.12.04 the network  manager shows that it is connected to wlan, but  internet doesn't work, I can't ping anything outsinde and cannot reach the wlan router's  homepage.

lshw -C network and iwconfig give the following output:

> martin@martef:~$ sudo lshw -C network
[sudo] password for martin: 
  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: 82566MM Gigabit Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 19
       bus info: pci@0000:00:19.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 03
       serial: 00:21:86:52:2c:8c
       capacity: 1Gbit/s
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=e1000e  driverversion=1.5.1-k firmware=0.3-0 latency=0 link=no multicast=yes  port=twisted pair
       resources: irq:47 memory:fe200000-fe21ffff memory:fe225000-fe225fff ioport:1840(size=32)
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN [Kedron] Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 61
       serial: 00:1f:3b:ad:7d:69
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=iwl4965  driverversion=3.2.0-31-generic firmware=228.61.2.24 ip=192.168.1.34  latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abgn
       resources: irq:48 memory:df2fe000-df2fffff
martin@martef:~$ iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11abgn  ESSID:"mainstation"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.412 GHz  Access Point: 00:13:49:E0:1B:grin:E   
          Bit Rate=1 Mb/s   Tx-Power=15 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:eek:ff   Fragment thr:eek:ff
          Power Management:eek:ff
          Link Quality=69/70  Signal level=-41 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:23   Missed beacon:0

eth0      no wireless extensions.Don't know what to do. Can anybody help? Thanks

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-11-10
Hi ,

consider maybe this is a connection (router) problem and not Ubuntu. Reboot your router and see. 

Also give the results of 
```
cat /etc/network/interfaces
cat /etc/resolv.conf
nmcli nm status 
lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
``` 

**Click on "New Reply" and put the results inside [CODE] tags** to be easier to read. [See here how](http://i.stack.imgur.com/zADbK.png)

Thanks

---

### Post by martinilinski on 2012-11-10
Hi,
thanks for replying.

I can connect with another laptop via this router (wlan). And also I can connect via lan with my laptop, only wlan with my laptop doesn't work.

Here is the output:
```
martin@martef:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

martin@martef:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1
martin@martef:~$ nmcli nm status 
RUNNING         STATE           WIFI-HARDWARE   WIFI       WWAN-HARDWARE   WWAN      
running         connected       enabled         enabled    enabled         enabled   
martin@martef:~$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
00:19.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Intel Corporation 82566MM Gigabit Network Connection [8086:1049] (rev 03)
    Subsystem: Lenovo ThinkPad T61 [17aa:20b9]
    Kernel driver in use: e1000e
--
03:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN [Kedron] Network Connection [8086:4230] (rev 61)
    Subsystem: Intel Corporation Lenovo ThinkPad T61 [8086:1111]
    Kernel driver in use: iwl4965
```Thanks!

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-11-10
Let us examine the information available to us. I see this:

> description: Ethernet interface

configuration: broadcast=yes driver=iwl4965 driverversion=3.2.0-31-generic

> description: Wireless interface

configuration: broadcast=yes driver=iwl4965 driverversion=3.2.0-31-generic 

That tells me that you have drivers installed for both the ethernet and the wireless network cards.

And then there is this:

> wlan0 IEEE 802.11abgn ESSID:"mainstation" 

Your wireless adapter is connected to your wireless access point (the router) and this is the signal strength:

> Link Quality=69/70 Signal level=-41 dBm

It indicates that the problem is not with Ubuntu but with the router's connection to the ISP.

Do you see this:

> 00:19.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Intel Corporation 82566MM Gigabit Network Connection [8086:1049] (rev 03)
    Subsystem: Lenovo ThinkPad T61 [17aa:20b9]
    _Kernel driver in use: e1000e_

and this:

> 03:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN [Kedron] Network Connection [8086:4230] (rev 61)
    Subsystem: Intel Corporation Lenovo ThinkPad T61 [8086:1111]
    _Kernel driver in use: iwl4965_

The drivers for both the ethernet and the wireless cards/adapters are in use.

If you run this command you will see a list of wireless access points being detected by the wireless adapter and you will also see that Device wlan0 is connected to mainstation

```
nm-tool
```

Regards.

---

### Post by martinilinski on 2012-11-10
Thanks for replying.
I don't understand all the information you gave, but I can say the following:

I tried with my laptop since the Ubuntu upgrade to connect to two different Wlan routers (my own router "mainstation" and to the access point of my smartphone"). My laptop [and also the smartphone hotspot] show, that connection works, but I cannot reach the router via ping or via my internet browser, nor can I access the internet.

I can access the router and the internet via lan with this laptop.

I tried to connect to the router with two other devices (laptop and smartphone) and it worked. It also worked to connect to the router and the internet with the other two devices.

nm-tool outputs the follwing.

```
martin@martef:~$ nm-tool

NetworkManager Tool

State: connected (global)


** (process:11581): WARNING **: error: cannot retrieve connection: uid 1000 has no permission to perform this operation

** (process:11581): WARNING **: error: cannot retrieve connection: uid 1000 has no permission to perform this operation

** (process:11581): WARNING **: error: cannot retrieve connection: uid 1000 has no permission to perform this operation
- Device: wlan0  [mainstation] -------------------------------------------------
  Type:              802.11 WiFi
  Driver:            iwl4965
  State:             connected
  Default:           yes
  HW Address:        00:1F:3B:AD:7D:69

  Capabilities:
    Speed:           1 Mb/s

  Wireless Properties
    WEP Encryption:  yes
    WPA Encryption:  yes
    WPA2 Encryption: yes

  Wireless Access Points (* = current AP)
    NETGEAR:         Infra, 00:1E:2A:FA:5F:22, Freq 2462 MHz, Rate 54 Mb/s, Strength 62 WPA WPA2
    WLAN-A:          Infra, 90:F6:52:FE:C2:64, Freq 2442 MHz, Rate 54 Mb/s, Strength 60 WPA2
    Home:            Infra, 28:37:37:49:1D:FC, Freq 2462 MHz, Rate 54 Mb/s, Strength 50 WPA2
    EasyBox-480806:  Infra, 00:23:08:48:08:3A, Freq 2412 MHz, Rate 54 Mb/s, Strength 54 WPA WPA2
    *mainstation:    Infra, 00:13:49:E0:1B:DE, Freq 2412 MHz, Rate 54 Mb/s, Strength 81 WPA2
    dlink:           Infra, FC:75:16:7A:04:F5, Freq 2427 MHz, Rate 54 Mb/s, Strength 30 WPA2
    FRITZ!Box Fon WLAN 7170: Infra, 00:1F:3F:18:AF:CE, Freq 2412 MHz, Rate 54 Mb/s, Strength 14 WPA WPA2

  IPv4 Settings:
    Address:         192.168.1.34
    Prefix:          24 (255.255.255.0)
    Gateway:         192.168.1.1

    DNS:             192.168.1.1
    DNS:             193.189.244.194
    DNS:             193.189.244.202


- Device: eth0 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Type:              Wired
  Driver:            e1000e
  State:             unavailable
  Default:           no
  HW Address:        00:21:86:52:2C:8C

  Capabilities:
    Carrier Detect:  yes
    Speed:           100 Mb/s

  Wired Properties
    Carrier:         off
```What should I do? Thanks.

---

### Post by martinilinski on 2012-11-10
Any ideas?

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-11-10
I can only see the speed is too low. 
> ```
Capabilities:     
Speed:           1 Mb/s
```Try this command and see if works 
```
sudo iwconfig wlan0 bit 54M
```wait 10 secs and try to load a page with Firefox. 

**EDIT:** If the above not works , then try another 

Give this command in terminal **and reboot**
```
echo 'options iwl4965 11n_disable=1' | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/iwl4965.conf
```

Thanks

---

### Post by martinilinski on 2012-11-10
I tried it. The immediate answer of mozilla is the "Server not found" page as it was before the command.

---

### Post by martinilinski on 2012-11-10
> **NikTh said:**
> 
Give this command in terminal **and reboot**
```
echo 'options iwl4965 11n_disable=1' | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/iwl4965.conf
```Thanks

and I also tried this, but nothing changed. Still immediately the "Server not found" page.

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-11-10
Give the results of 
```
cat /etc/hostname
cat /etc/hosts
``` 

Thanks

---

### Post by martinilinski on 2012-11-11
Hi,
> **NikTh said:**
> Give the results of 
```
cat /etc/hostname
cat /etc/hosts
```Thanks

```
martin@martef:~$ cat /etc/hostname
martef
martin@martef:~$ cat /etc/hosts
127.0.0.1    localhost
127.0.1.1    martef

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts
```

Thanks.

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-11-11
I cannot see anything weird in results. 

Maybe you are under a proxy - or - you have installed tor in firefox or something like that ? 
Maybe a firewall ? 

To disable firewall try this
```
sudo service ufw stop
```
Can you ping ? (give the results)
```
ping -c 3 8.8.8.8
``` 

Thanks

---

### Post by martinilinski on 2012-11-11
> **NikTh said:**
> I cannot see anything weird in results. 

Maybe you are under a proxy - or - you have installed tor in firefox or something like that ? 
Maybe a firewall ? 

I don't use a proxy and don't know anything about a firewall. And as mentioned, internet works via lan as you can see here:
```
martin@martef:~$ ping -c 3 8.8.8.8
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_req=1 ttl=49 time=23.7 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_req=2 ttl=49 time=23.0 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_req=3 ttl=49 time=22.7 ms

--- 8.8.8.8 ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 3 received, 0% packet loss, time 2002ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 22.701/23.164/23.734/0.446 ms
```

When I remove the LAN cable and connect via wlan, it doesn't work:
```
martin@martef:~$ ping -c 3 8.8.8.8
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) 56(84) bytes of data.
From 192.168.1.34 icmp_seq=2 Destination Host Unreachable
From 192.168.1.34 icmp_seq=2 Destination Host Unreachable
From 192.168.1.34 icmp_seq=2 Destination Host Unreachable

--- 8.8.8.8 ping statistics ---
1 packets transmitted, 0 received, +3 errors, 100% packet loss, time 1011ms
```

> **NikTh said:**
> I cannot see anything weird in results. 
To disable firewall try this
```
sudo service ufw stop
```Can you ping ? (give the results)

Same results after this command:
```
martin@martef:~$ sudo service ufw stop
stop: Unknown instance: 
martin@martef:~$ ping -c 3 8.8.8.8
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) 56(84) bytes of data.
From 192.168.1.34 icmp_seq=2 Destination Host Unreachable
From 192.168.1.34 icmp_seq=2 Destination Host Unreachable
From 192.168.1.34 icmp_seq=2 Destination Host Unreachable

--- 8.8.8.8 ping statistics ---
1 packets transmitted, 0 received, +3 errors, 100% packet loss, time 1011ms

martin@martef:~$ 
```

Thanks!

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-11-11
Do something else. 

Open network-manager and remove (delete) your wireless connection. 
Click on network-manager Icon , then "Edit Connections" and then "wireless" find and delete your connection and re-create it manual . 

Give your ESSID , your password and make sure that "available to all users" and "connect automatically" are marked. Also make sure that IPV6 is disabled. 

Reboot your PC and check again.

Thanks

---

### Post by martinilinski on 2012-11-11
Hallo,
I tried what you suggested (and set IPv6 to method "ignore"), but it didn't work:
```
martin@martef:~$ ping -c 3 8.8.8.8
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) 56(84) bytes of data.
From 192.168.1.34 icmp_seq=1 Destination Host Unreachable
From 192.168.1.34 icmp_seq=1 Destination Host Unreachable
From 192.168.1.34 icmp_seq=1 Destination Host Unreachable

--- 8.8.8.8 ping statistics ---
0 packets transmitted, 0 received, +3 errors
```

Thanks.

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-11-11
Have you tried this with another browser ? eg: Chromium-browser , or Google Chrome ? 

Have you checked the network-manager , if WiFi "Airplane Mode" is ON ? Also check (when you unplug the Ethernet Cable ) if "Wireless Connection" is marked. (Click on Netwrok-Manager Icon).

---

### Post by martinilinski on 2012-11-11
Hallo,

I think by "Airplane Mode" you mean, if Wireless is enabled? If so: yes, it is.
When I left click on the network manager it shows, that it is connected to my router "mainstation". (When I click the nm-symbol it is black below the "Wireless Network" and below the "mainstation" there is the possibility to Disconnect. Also the nm-manager shows a message "connection established")
If that was what you asked.

I think all the data I posted indicates that the laptop is connected to the router via wlan.

Another browser also doesn't reach the internet/ router as "ping" doesn't.
Chrome gives immediately the following message:
> **This webpage is not available**

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica]The server at **[www.google.de]("http://www.google.de")** can't be found, because the DNS lookup failed. DNS is the network service that translates a website's name to its Internet address. This error is most often caused by having no connection to the Internet or a misconfigured network. It can also be caused by an unresponsive DNS server or a firewall preventing Chromium from accessing the network.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Helvetica]**Here are some suggestions:**


[LIST]
[*][Reload]("http://www.google.de/") this webpage later.
[*]Check your Internet connection. Restart any router, modem, or other network devices you may be using.
[*]Check your DNS settings. Contact your network administrator if you're not sure what this means.
[*]Try disabling network prediction by following these steps: Go to **the wrench menu > Settings > Show advanced settings... **and deselect "Predict network actions to improve page load performance." If this does not resolve the issue, we recommend selecting this option again for improved performance.
[*]Add Chromium as a permitted program in your firewall's or antivirus software's settings. If it is already a permitted program, try deleting it from the list of permitted programs and adding it again.
[*]If you use a proxy server, check your proxy settings or contact your network administrator to make sure the proxy server is working. If you don't believe you should be using a proxy server, adjust your proxy settings: Go to **the wrench menu >Settings > Show advanced settings... > Change proxy settings... **and make sure your configuration is set to "no proxy" or "direct."
[/LIST]
[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#777777][FONT=Helvetica]Error 105 (net::ERR_NAME_NOT_RESOLVED): Unable to resolve the server's DNS address.[/FONT][/COLOR]
Any further ideas?
thanks.

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-11-11
OK , 
last test now (by me) . 
Follow the instructions. 

1) Plug your Ethernet and execute this command
```
wget "http://ubuntuone.com/1kKCgeRTZHszxUdsSEekYz" -O ~/wirelessinfo
```2) Un-plug the Ethernet cable and run these commands
```
chmod +x wirelessinfo 
./wirelessinfo
```3)Attach the **netinfo.txt **file here . [See here on how to attach a file](http://i.stack.imgur.com/0E6qS.png)
**netinfo.txt** will be created in your /home directory. 

Thanks

---

### Post by martinilinski on 2012-11-12
Thanks for helping until now :-)

> **NikTh said:**
> OK , 
2) Un-plug the Ethernet cable and run these commands
```
chmod +x wirelessinfo 
./wirelessinfo
```3)Attach the **netinfo.txt **file here . [See here on how to attach a file]("http://i.stack.imgur.com/0E6qS.png")
**netinfo.txt** will be created in your /home directory. 
Thanks

done. see attached file (had to transform it to an pdf as it exeeded the allowed size for a txt-file).

Hope, there are some hints in it!
Thanks.

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-11-12
Ok , 
problem is clear now. You have installed a firewall called "Shorewall" and is not configured correctly, so blocks everything about wlan0 (wireless). 

I don't know and never used this software (as not needed at my opinion). 

The only I can suggest is to remove it completely . 

```
sudo apt-get remove --purge shorewall*
```

Then reboot your PC for the removal to take effect , and see if wireless connection works . (I assume it will).

Thanks

---

### Post by martinilinski on 2012-11-13
Great:-)
It works now. Thanks very much, NikTh, for the patience.

Strange, I didn't install any firewall, probably it was installed automatically during the upgrade.
Bye.

---

