---
title: "11.10 folders"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Johnny3 on 2011-10-14
When I open my home folder all the folders are white and look like a piece of paper. Ever thing is in them they just look funny. Fresh in stall. Anyone else having this happen?
Thanks and God Bless Johnny3

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-14
Could you post a screenshot? 
Regards.

---

### Post by Johnny3 on 2011-10-14
> **papibe said:**
> Could you post a screenshot? 
Regards.
It is no big deal. Just wondering. Hope you can see it it small.
Thanks and God Bless Johnny

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-14
It looks like a 'theme' problem.

Did you customize your theme? May be if try going back to one the standard Ubuntu themes, and try to reinstall your theme again.

Just a thought,
Regards.

---

### Post by ibutho on 2011-10-14
Those are normal directories (folders). It appears that there is something wrong with the theme (possibly icon theme) you are using because it is not displaying the icons correctly.

---

### Post by Johnny3 on 2011-10-14
OK you all were right. It was themes and I fixed it by dumb luck. I went to dash home typed in theme. It came up with a list with blank circles I clicked on the default and put a black dot in it. Turned PC off and back on and it was fixed. But I can't get back there. When I type in theme now it take me to Appearance and if I click I get this. So how do I get to themes? 
Thanks and God Bless Johnny3 65++
getting old can be bad at times.

---

