---
title: "11.10 - acidrip, can't get rid of subtitles"
date: 2011-11-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-29
I'm using Acidrip from the software center to rip some DVD's down to a format I can put on my Kindle Fire.

I know that normally ripping isn't discussed much here because of the copy protection issues.  However, since I have that side of things covered, I was wondering if anyone can tell me how to get rid of subtitles with Acidrip?  I have subtitles set to "none", yet Spanish text appears across the resulting video.  I changed it to English and of course get English text across the resulting video.

Can anyone tell me how to get rid of the subtitles altogether?

Thanks in advance!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-30
I tried passing -noautosub and -nosub to mencoder via a place on the Acidrip video tab that looked like it took additional parameters.  Everything ran fine, but still have subtitles.

After reading a ton of information on the net, it appears you have to make a 3 step process out of this as Acidrip apparently keeps the subtitles.

Since that seems like a time waster to me, I installed DVDRip from the software center.  Now a completely different problem - Acidrip at least processed the entire DVD - DVDRip fails at 130000+ frames in a 172000+ frame set.  Just can't get around it.

Does anyone have any suggestions on how to rip a DVD (I've got the protection issue covered so we don't need to discuss it here - hope that will allow a reply).

I tried to get handbrake, but that fails miserably on trying to use their key and links so I can't even install it.  I've wanted to use synaptic package manager so I installed it but it won't run because apparently some required pixmap or something is missing (I thought the software center and apt-get took care of dependencies).  Can't seem to get to medibuntu either as updates fail telling me medibuntu is an untrusted source now.

All of this in 11.10.


ANY help would be greatly appreciated!

Thanks in advance!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by x C0MMAND0 x on 2011-11-30
This doesn't answer your question, but have you considered Handbrake and Handbrake CLI?  I also don't know what format you are trying to get to, but I do know that Handbrake works great for ripping DVDs to video.

EDIT - saw you said you tried Handbrake, what is the issue you are running into?  Try [http://handbrake.fr/downloads2.php](http://handbrake.fr/downloads2.php)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-30
I'm trying to recall without recreating it, but if I remember correctly I went to the handbrake page and tried adding the PPA.  When I try to handbrake it then fails saying the key isn't valid.  No matter what I tried I just couldn't even "get" the package.

Any suggestions are VERY welcome!  If you know a way I can get handbrake installed it would be great!

Thanks!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by Lisiano on 2011-11-30
If it failed to add the PGP key then maybe try readding the PPA?
```
sudo rm /etc/apt/sources.list.d/stebbins-handbrake-releases-*
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:stebbins/handbrake-releases
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install handbrake-gtk
```


EDIT: You can manually get inside the PPA and download the .deb with a browser, just head down to [http://ppa.launchpad.net/stebbins/handbrake-releases/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/stebbins/handbrake-releases/ubuntu) and navigate inside pool

EDIT 2: As a workaround for Acidrip, you could try pointing it at a sub file. Say a empty srt sub
The normal content of a srt sub is
```
1
00:00:14,189 --> 00:00:18,913
<font color="#78150d">(( ÏßÓÊÑ ))</font>
<font color="#78150d">ÇáãæÓã ÇáÓÇÏÓ - ÇáÍáÞÉ ÇáÊÇÓÚÉ</font>

2
00:00:20,123 --> 00:00:23,045
...
```
It's some random Arabic srt sub I randomly downloaded. Basically the first line is the subtitle line order, then the timeframe it's shown and the rest is text that will be shown, separated by a blank new line.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-30
Thanks!  I've got to step out for a little while, then (ok, it's embarrassing for a 55+ old guy) I *LOVE* Ghost Hunters, so it will be TV for while ;)  It will probably be later tonight when I give that a try.

Thanks!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by bryncoles on 2011-11-30
I think I might be late to the party, but I find that when acidrip *absolutely insists* on including the subtitles file, then clicking the 'subfile button' at least puts the subtitles in a different file, rather than hardcoding them to the resulting avi (or whatever output file) you're making.  

Does that help?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-11-30
Indeed, I thought I had done that before and it failed, but I tried it again and that works!  Now, being a complete novice at all things video, I need to play with some of the settings, etc., to get it looking like I'd like and to have it output in a format that my Kindle Fire will recognize (I think h264 mpeg4 or some such thing).

At any rate, at least the subtitles are gone!  So thanks everyone for the input, and I'll mark this one as solved.

Again, thanks very much!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-12-01
Well, a small update.  Video quality wasn't the best out of Acidrip for what ever reason - probably some adjustment parameter that I don't know.

So, I tried installing Handbrake again via the PPA - got the same issues.  So I downloaded the .deb for it and installed it just fine. 

I then found a how-to on the net for ripping DVD's and loading them to a Kindle Fire, which is exactly what I am trying to do.  Sure enough, they use Handbreak.  Just setting to iPod and large files and bingo - the video gets converted on the fly from the DVD.  The quality appears great and there are no random pauses, etc., in the resulting video.  I then tried copying to the Videos folder on my Fire but when I tried to find the movie on the Fire it wasn't there, even though via the USB connection it showed I had placed it in the Videos folder.  The how-to from the net explained it - videos that are not purchased via Amazon don't show in the Video list when the Fire is running normally - just as mine didn't - but they ARE there - you just need to use the picture gallery app and they are right there.  The resulting view on the Fire was fantastic - Handbrake really did the trick!

Thanks, Lisiano for the great pointers - they really helped me out!

Dave ;)

---

