---
title: "I need 1024x768@60hz in LG Studioworks 553V"
date: 2008-09-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by racsoarias on 2008-09-23
I have been trying to to get 1024x768@60hz resolution with my LG Studioworks 553V, but I am not able to, I tried to edit xorg.conf but I cannot make it work.:(

This is what I get when I use: sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"latam"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"klsaññññ"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"USA"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLEASE HELP!!! :confused::confused::confused: I need to enable a higher resolution, I am currently using it at 832x624@75Hz and I cannot stand it, it is too big.:(

Thanks to everyone who can help me!!

---

### Post by anotherdisciple on 2008-09-23
First two questions...

1) What is your graphics card?

2) Have you installed any restricted drivers?

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-23
1) moved to absolute beginners.

2) >  Have you installed any restricted drivers?

System > Administration > Hardware Drivers

---

### Post by racsoarias on 2008-09-24
I am using my integrated video card, my system information is:
MOTHERBOARD MODEL: BIOSTAR K8M800 Micro AM2
INTEGRATED VIDEO: VIA S3 UniChrome Pro

I haven't install any restricted driver, actually I haven't install any driver at all.

---

### Post by anotherdisciple on 2008-09-24
Integrated video huh? Did you go to (System > Administration > Hardware Drivers) like Sef said and see if there is a driver available for it?

---

### Post by racsoarias on 2008-09-25
Yes I did, but there isn't anything there. I try with other monitor and I got full resolution for it, up to 1420x1024, so I am guessing it may not be the drivers, however, I am not really sure, but it is a possibility. :(

---

