---
title: "8.10 - &quot;Enable Wireless&quot; checkbox ghosted"
date: 2009-05-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-05-14
different computer, not this one.

i dont recall changing anything, but i havent actually tried to use wireless in months on that computer. last time i did try to use it on that computer, it was working flawlessley OOB on a fresh ubuntu 64 bit install.

im in transitional lodgings at the moment, so wired internet is unavailable to me at the moment.

sooooooo, yeah. the 'enable wireless' checkbox in the NetworkManager Applet is suddenly ghosted, and thus i can no longer use wireless on that machine...

lack of wired internet means if anything needs to be updated, etc, on that computer then i will have to manually download hte 64 bit .deb from somewhere to this (32 bit) computer, and transfer it over via external hard drive.... manually locating 64 bit debs is something i have no idea how to do :P

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2009-05-14
maybe a silly question, but is there a wireless on/off switch...like ctrl+F2, or some other physical switch.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-05-14
well, i feel like an idiot.

thanks for the help, works fine now! :)

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2009-05-14
Glad I could help. Recently happened to me on a friends dell and took quite some time to figure out.

---

### Post by camalion357 on 2009-05-14
Well, Dont feel like an idiot, I had the same Problem. And got Help from someone on a IRC Ubuntu Chat Room, I am Also New To Ubuntu Linux and learning Something new every day. Luckly you can Always find some good Semaritan to Help.

                                               Thanks to All.

---

