---
title: "9.10 Update issues"
date: 2009-10-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Dobbie03 on 2009-10-22
I am trying to update to 9.10.  I have downloaded all the files I need and when it comes to the point of installing them a dialog screen pops up asking me if I want to upgrade, I select yes then Ubuntu proceeds to tell me that it cant update because my system maybe in an "unsuable state"

How do I upgrade?

---

### Post by takiama on 2009-10-22
I am not positive on why you are recieving this error, but I would recommend backing up your important files, burning a 9.10 Live CD, and installing the OS freshly from there.  Remember, the more stable final release comes out 10/29, so consider waiting until then to upgrade.

---

### Post by Dobbie03 on 2009-10-22
That was my next move :)

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-22
Are you trying to update from 9.04?

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-10-22
Do a fresh install.

Karmic uses GRUB2 and ext4 by default.  If you update, you will be left with a GRUB in "legacy" mode and ext3.

You can install GRUB2 and update your ext3 file system in Jaunty with little difficulty if you are familiar and comfortable with running a series of commands in the terminal.

If you are not using a separate /home partition, I would suggest doing that.  That would be another good reason to do a fresh install and manually create your partitions.

Be sure to save what is in your current /home!

And I can't stress this enough:  DO BACKUPS.

---

### Post by Dobbie03 on 2009-10-23
Thanks guys and I am going to do a fresh install this Thursday/Friday.

---

### Post by Dullstar on 2009-10-23
NEVER upgrade like that.  ALWAYS do a fresh install.

---

### Post by tarps87 on 2009-10-23
> **Dullstar said:**
> NEVER upgrade like that.  ALWAYS do a fresh install.

What is the reasoning behind this?

---

### Post by j7%&lt;RmUg on 2009-10-23
Sometimes(especially with karmic) there are big jumps in packages(like GRUB 2 and ext4 by default) that means if you try to upgrade it has a lower chance of working.

I tried upgrading from 8.10 when 9.04 came out and that failed. Anyway, you can repartition your drive, have ext4 and grub 2 by default if you fresh install, THATS why most people dont upgrade. For most people who choose to upgrade, they consider it "too hard" to fresh install.

---

### Post by tarps87 on 2009-10-23
Other than grub2 I don't see a reason to do a fresh install and that can be installed separately. Doing a clean install work require a new home section else you will have to upgrade to ext4 manually any way. I'm running Arch on my netbook which is rolling release based and I have no problems upgrading, this is why I don't understand a clean install for each release.
Upgraded my desktop since 7.04, it is already running ext4 on all partitions.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-10-23
> **tarps87 said:**
> Other than grub2 I don't see a reason to do a fresh install and that can be installed separately. Doing a clean install work require a new home section else you will have to upgrade to ext4 manually any way. I'm running Arch on my netbook which is rolling release based and I have no problems upgrading, this is why I don't understand a clean install for each release.
Upgraded my desktop since 7.04, it is already running ext4 on all partitions.

GRUB2:  Yes, that can be installed before hand on distributions prior to Karmic.  However, it is standard in a new Karmic installation.  If it is installed prior to an upgrade, it will be used. 

ext4:  Not quite.  A fresh install of Karmic does not require a post-installation upgrade to ext4.  It installs with ext4 by default.  Previous distributions that were installed as ext3 can be changed to ext4.  However, the individual files will be in legacy ext3 format.

Separate /home directory:  Not quite.  A new installation of Karmic does not require a /home partition.  However, a separate /home partition has always been a good idea because it makes routine backups safer, it makes a fresh installation a fairly easy matter and it can be shared between different distributions (from another "vendor") as a common resource.   If it were up to me, all new installations would have a separate /home partition by default.

Rolling distribution:  Has its pros and cons, as does Canonical's approach in freezing the unstable development branch at each new release.  One of the pros of Canonical's approach is that at the time of the release, it is more likely that the distribution will be stable.  This is not foolproof.  On the other hand, rolling releases are nice in that you can always have the latest development, but that comes with the risk of instability.

Why does everyone recommend a fresh installation?  Because if you have a separate /home partition and back that up, a fresh installation is more likely to result in a stable OS than an upgrade, which may carry some problems forward with it.

Furthermore, unlike Windows reinstallations that require you to reinstall all of your software post-install, there is a fairly simple way to save a record of your applications that have been installed through Synaptic and restore those applications post-install without having to pick them out all over again and install them.

Because you can

1.  Save your /home partition and;
2.  Restore your applications easily

a clean install is only slightly more involved than an upgrade and is more likely to produce the stability you want.

My opinion.

---

### Post by tarps87 on 2009-10-23
I see why people do fresh installs and don't deny that they have advantages it's just some people say never upgrade, that's the confusing bit, maybe it's just me

> **QIII said:**
> 
Separate /home directory:  Not quite.  A new installation of Karmic does not require a /home partition.  However, a separate /home partition has always been a good idea because it makes routine backups safer, it makes a fresh installation a fairly easy matter and it can be shared between different distributions (from another "vendor") as a common resource.   If it were up to me, all new installations would have a separate /home partition by default.


I am aware that you do not need a separate home partition, although all mine do, my point was if you use an existing home partition (ext3) after a clean install it would still be ext3.
I have share a home partition before but found it caused conflicts between distros do to different config files, and tags in the files.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-10-23
> **tarps87 said:**
> 
I am aware that you do not need a separate home partition, although all mine do, my point was if you use an existing home partition (ext3) after a clean install it would still be ext3.


With a clean install, you can manually create/change/delete partitions to your heart's content.  You are not stuck with an ext3 /home partition.

---

### Post by tarps87 on 2009-10-25
> **QIII said:**
> With a clean install, you can manually create/change/delete partitions to your heart's content.  You are not stuck with an ext3 /home partition.

If you are to use your existing home partition then you would have to enable ext4 functionality, yes you can reformat it ext4 but then you would lose your data or have to copy it off and on again in which case you might as well just enable ext4 functionality. Manipulating partitions can be done at any time as long as you have the space available.

---

### Post by twright on 2009-10-25
Just as a footnote if you did want to get the upgrade working you would just have to run computer janitor, let it clear out a lot of stuff then it probably should work.

@tarps87
When you use the partitioner you just need to select use as ext4 and your existing home partition would be upgraded (although it would only use some new features on newly created files).

---

### Post by the_burk on 2009-10-25
to be honest.. ive done apt-get update; apt-get upgrade; update-manager -d since dapper drake.. i remember it being problems with 8.10 but recently its been working fine.. did the upgrade today... and i have everything working as supposed... even better than b4.. 

but... this is my laptop .. with.. i think was a cli install to xubuntu more or less.. quite a bit special of an install to be honest so i wouldnt go there again ... 3 days of installing programs i miss.. no fun ..

---

### Post by tarps87 on 2009-10-27
> **twright said:**
> Just as a footnote if you did want to get the upgrade working you would just have to run computer janitor, let it clear out a lot of stuff then it probably should work.

@tarps87
When you use the partitioner you just need to select use as ext4 and your existing home partition would be upgraded (although it would only use some new features on newly created files).

This probably does the same as changing it on an existing install too then. (The files don't need to be new just modified)

---

### Post by twright on 2009-10-27
> **tarps87 said:**
> This probably does the same as changing it on an existing install too then. (The files don't need to be new just modified)
Exactly, you will get some speed benefits but not as much as in a freshly formatted partition.

---

