---
title: "8.10 to 9.04 upgrade expectations"
date: 2009-08-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mesmith on 2009-08-07
Backed up 8.10 and took the upgrade route to 9.04.  Lots of minor problems, e.g. screen resolution, video, errors at shutdown etc. etc.  So, back to 8.10 after lots of hours in Google and this forum.

My question is, if I wait say, 3 months and try again, can I reasonably expect that the upgrade will be different and improved?  Is the upgrade code continually tweaked after launch when many problems are apparent?

Thanks.

---

### Post by magmon on 2009-08-07
If I where you, I would wait for karmic. Do a double upgrade and see how it goes. Worst case, you have to stick with intrepid, best case, karmic works for ya.

---

### Post by mikechant on 2009-08-07
Try testing 9.04 from a LiveCD/USB stick. If it works OK, it may be that the upgrade process is messing you up, not 9.04 itself, in which case you should do a clean install (retaining your existing /home) instead of an upgrade.

Perosnally I always do clean installs on a new partition, test them and then swap my seperate /home partition from the old to the new release. This means you never get upgrade related problems, you've got a working system on the old release to use while you test the new one, and if you switch to the new release and find a serious problem you can drop back to the old release with just a reboot.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2009-08-07
I personally prefer a clean install, however the upgrade process seems to be much smoother for Jaunty. I would do as previous posters said and try a live CD.

---

### Post by Tibuda on 2009-08-07
Whats your video card? Jaunty got problems with some Intel and ATI cards.

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-08-07
We ALWAYS recommend testing via a LiveCD and then a CLEAN FRESH INSTALL when moving from one version to the next

.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-08-07
> **lewrockwell said:**
> we always recommend testing via a livecd and then a clean fresh install when moving from one version to the next

.

+1

---

### Post by ubudog on 2009-08-07
Yeah, I would just do a clean install if I were you. :)

---

