---
title: "11.04 Now won't boot"
date: 2011-07-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Nemo103 on 2011-07-31
Everything was working fine, [except the wireless]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11104433"). Now it won't boot.
 
In normal mode it gets as far as showing "Ubuntu" with five dots underneath, then hangs. In recovery mode, it shows what looks like kernel's message buffer flicking through very quickly, and carries on indefinitely. In each case it eventually cuts the power because it overheats (it's been overheating like that for a few days because of a broken fan.)
 
What can I do? I'm tempted to just remove the whole thing and try again...

---

### Post by scorchgeek on 2011-07-31
The root cause of this problem may well be the system overheating, so I'd suggest fixing that before blaming the operating system for your problem. Replace that fan and get it cooling properly, and then see if you're still having the problem and check back.

And is there some particular reason why you reposted this in a new thread?

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-07-31
Okay. First of all, set that thing down on an AC vent. Second, test it again. Third, if it doesn't work, you might want to try Ubuntu 10.04. Natty seems to have issues with wireless that Lucid doesn't, and Lucid is less likely to break on you.

---

### Post by Nemo103 on 2011-07-31
Hi, 
I think you're right, scorchgeek: that's the only plausible reason I can think of. It's just that the first time this happened was the reboot after making some (partially-sighted) changes to system files, and booting in Windows seems fine.
I started a new thread because to me, being unable to boot is a different issue to the wireless not working. And it never took this long to boot before, so I don't think it's simply overheating sooner than it did before. Sorry if that doesn't fit with the forum's concensus on new threads.
 
Thanks

---

### Post by scorchgeek on 2011-07-31
I would have also started a new thread, personally, it's just that you had already started discussing the problem in the other one. That's just likely to lead to duplication of effort. 

Go ahead and try cooling the system down and let us know again. As was mentioned in the other thread, repeated overheating could potentially damage your system and corrupt data, so I wouldn't recommend troubleshooting without fixing the problem first.

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2011-07-31
> **Nemo103 said:**
> In each case it eventually cuts the power because it overheats (it's been [SIZE=4]**[COLOR=Red]overheating [/COLOR]**[/SIZE]like that for a few days because of a broken fan.)
 
What can I do? I'm tempted to just remove the whole thing and try again...

Definitely, fix that issue before doing anything else.

---

