---
title: "64 bit 10.04 Server questions"
date: 2010-07-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by AndyInNYC on 2010-07-19
I am thinking of doing a clean install on my server using the 64 bit server addition (clever, that, huh?).

Does the 64 bit version have a graphical interface, or if not by default, how does one enable it?  My command line skills/depth of knowledge won't stand up to a lack of the graphical interface.

The machine is basically a Samba server with a 3ware 9500S-8 card (hardware RAID) and does little else.

Motherboard is an Asus M2NPV-VM (with almost everything integrated) and a low wattage AMD chip.

Andrew

---

### Post by Paqman on 2010-07-19
> **AndyInNYC said:**
> 
Does the 64 bit version have a graphical interface


Nope, none of the server images come with a GUI.

> or if not by default, how does one enable it?  My command line skills/depth of knowledge won't stand up to a lack of the graphical interface.

```
sudo apt-get install xorg gdm gnome-core gnome-themes
```

This will give you a basic GUI. If you want the full desktop including all the appps you'd get on the desktop edition, then use

```
sudo apt-get install xorg ubuntu-desktop
```

---

### Post by AndyInNYC on 2010-07-19
Paqman, thanks.

Any idea where to check what the list of what the 'full desktop' would include?

Now I just need to hope that the Clonezilla backup works correctly in case I botch the install or want to go backwards.  Probably a good time to dig a drive out of the basement.

Andrew

---

### Post by WRDN on 2010-07-19
As Paqman stated, the server editions don't have a GUI, but you can install one. I would **never** recommend installing the "ubuntu-desktop" packages on a server though. Most of the time, a server will sit in a corner, running a few services, and be ignored (as far as any serious admin is concerned). GNOME is rather heavy, so, as an alternative, I would suggest installing something like Fluxbox (very light). This way, you can use GUI tools, but you're not running the GNOME desktop or the services ubuntu-desktop provides.
You could also install the "xubuntu-desktop" package, which uses the Xfce desktop, again, much lighter than GNOME, but not as light as fluxbox.

---

### Post by AndyInNYC on 2010-07-19
Thanks for the reply.

I'm not interested in running OpenOffice on the server, I just don't know what other useful tools get installed.

- qparted, swat, etc. are all very useful to me.  I'm also more comfortable with the package manager than trying to to 'apt-get installs' and getting all the typing correct.  I have stupid fingers.

Andrew

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2010-07-19
I'm running 10.0.4 64-bit server and I installed ubuntu-desktop. It has just about everything. This makes it usable (to me) and I can always uninstall things that are not needed if I wish. It sounds to me like you are happy to trade some performance for usability and so am I. Paqman's gnome-core would be much more streamlined and fine too - in this case you just install extra things you might need. I am not familiar with Fluxbox.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2010-07-19
> **AndyInNYC said:**
> 
Any idea where to check what the list of what the 'full desktop' would include?


[Behold!]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/ubuntu-desktop")

Basically you'll get everything you'd have in a normal desktop install. Lots of flab. The gnome-core package is extremely light though, so if you're familiar with Gnome I wouldn't bother with oddball desktop environments just to save weight. The main advantage of using Gnome is that you don't have to worry about pulling in tons of Gnome dependencies if you install some of Ubuntu's admin tools, since they're designed for Gnome.

If you want graphical package management tools you could also add:
```
sudo apt-get install gdebi synaptic update-manager
```

The other option is to use aptitude on the command line, where you still get a nice friendly interface to search for and install packages without having to install Synaptic. Just type:
```
sudo aptitude
```

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2010-07-19
Just out of interest, how much of the ubuntu-desktop flab causes a performance hit? I am out of my depth here but I reason that aside from using up disk space, a lot of the applications have no performance impact because they aren't running daemons. Eg: OpenOffice won't impact performance unless you run it. Is that correct?

So just curious about which ubuntu-desktop apps automatically consume processor bandwidth and RAM via daemons or otherwise compared with gnome-core.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2010-07-19
> **YesWeCan said:**
> Just out of interest, how much of the ubuntu-desktop flab causes a performance hit? I am out of my depth here but I reason that aside from using up disk space, a lot of the applications have no performance impact because they aren't running daemons. Eg: OpenOffice won't impact performance unless you run it. Is that correct?


Pretty much, although a certain amount of stuff does run from startup (eg: Bluetooth, Evolution, all the stuff for blind and deaf people, etc) it's pretty easy to switch it all off. Easier still to just not install it in the first place though.

---

### Post by Linux000 on 2010-07-19
To add to choices, if you want a lightweight desktop try "sudo apt-get install openbox" and make sure it list some files like xorg in the packages it will install, then reboot and type "startx &", this lets you boot into terminal, and only use the graphics when you need it. Just remember that openbox will show up as a black screen and a mouse pointer, to open terminal and run programs you have to right click to open the shortcut menu.

---

### Post by AndyInNYC on 2010-07-19
OK,

I now have a 64 bit 10.04 server install with Samba running and graphics and my shares available (and no visible changes from my wife's perspective).

Several mistakes while getting everything running - miscopied .conf files and bashed the graphics driver (easily fixed), set my share in fstab to /dev/sdc ... rather than /dev/sdc1 - needed to boot a rescue disk to edit the fstab file.  Some other rookie mistakes, but all rectified.

On the machine, however, I am noticing the graphics aren't quite right.  My motherboard is an Asus M2NPV-VM (onboard gig ethernet, video, RAID, etc.).  The video is an Nvidia  GeForce 6150 GPU.  I did not have this problem under 7.X.

I have downloaded the current Nvidia driver and installed (195?).  I have the Nvidia X Server Settings available from the menu.

When I first booted into the graphics mode, there were no options available to me above 640x480.  I used the .conf file available from this post:

[http://newyork.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9364295](http://newyork.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9364295)

which allows me to designate the resolutions of my 'generic' monitor (actually a 20 inch Dell flatscreen).

Unfortunately, the screen picture seems shifted to the right by several pixels.

I can't find it, but is there a way to recalibrate the picture?  The auto adjust on the monitor doesn't do it.

I also have noticed that I don't have a "Hardware Drivers" option on my system menu - is this a download or just unavailable?

Thanks

Andrew

---

### Post by Linux000 on 2010-07-19
The hardware drivers is a package you have to install... don't know the name, sorry.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2010-07-20
> **AndyInNYC said:**
> 
I also have noticed that I don't have a "Hardware Drivers" option on my system menu - is this a download or just unavailable?


You'll want to install jockey-gtk (I'm assuming you're on Gnome, if not you want jockey-kde). Should sort you right out.

EDIT: You might want to install dkms at the same time, it doesn't look like it's a dependency of Jockey. It definitely should be IMO. If you don't have it your graphics will bork every time you do a kernel update.

---

### Post by AndyInNYC on 2010-07-20
Paqman,

Worked like a charm. Didn't allow me to change anything, but worked like a charm <g>.

thanks.

Is there a graphical, "add user/remove user" front end for the 64 bit server version?


Andrew

---

### Post by Paqman on 2010-07-21
I'm not 100% sure, but I think that one's in gnome-system-tools.

---

