---
title: "Are compiled video drivers desktop environment dependent?"
date: 2012-10-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by venom104 on 2012-10-21
Here is my story.

Since I am a big fan of linux mint's MATE desktop, I decided to use the MATE desktop environment on ubuntu. Now shortly after I discovered it, I had a problem with my USB flash drives. They would automatically mount after I ejected or safely removed them and I couldn't stand this behavior as I am a student and do my work of multiple flash drives.

So after some digging on the web. I found out that the mounting of the USB drives was handled by the HAL daemon, with udev scripts to manage it. So I upgraded HAL, and I still had the same problem, I upgraded udev and had the same problem. 

I decided to see if my linux mint debian edition system had the same problem. It does not, but it runs a different version of mate. I downgraded my version of mate, and I still had the same problem.

So thinking the problem had something to do with mounting flash drives, I installed usbmount and tried to work off that. Then I had the problem where I couldn't unmount a USB drive if I was not root. I couldn't find a way of fixing this without editing the mtab file or writing a udev rule. 

Then I decided to install a different desktop manager. I installed nautilus and it had the same problem. Then I installed dolphin. Strangely enough, the problem went away. So I figured it was something with the way caja handles automounting (it's like some value isn't being returned, or it's the wrong value to the function that will remount a drive that is unmounted).

So anyway, I didn't like the look of dolphin and I installed xfce and the problem was  NOT there, so I decided to keep xfce.  

Anyway, getting to the point, when I logged into xfce for the first few times, I had an issue with Diablo 3 and Guild Wars 2 crashing the x server session with the error code...

```

XIO:  fatal IO error 11 (Resource temporarily unavailable) on X server ":0.0" 
      after 509 requests (508 known processed) with 0 events remaining.

```

Now since this didn't happen before (when I was running the MATE DE), I had a hunch it had something to do with the nvidia kernel module. I reinstalled the same driver (which is the binary one available from the NVIDIA website) and everything worked again.


So now my questions,

1) Why does the "safely remove hardware" script(?) work with everything that isn't related to caja (I believe that nautilus was forked at one point). Does it not use the hal daemon? Does it not use udev? What is the difference?

2) Is xorg.conf dependent on the desktop enviroment at hand? (I looked though my new xorg.con file which was generated by the nvidia driver installer program, and I could not find anything that related to caja or nautilus). 

3)Are video drivers somehow dependent on the desktop environment? (I'm guessing no, but I want to be sure).

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-10-21
I'm not dead-sure, but can answer 'part' of two of your questions by experience.

1) Nautilus does not use 'hal' daemon (it is not even installed in Ubuntu 12.04) by default. I know because I had to manually install it from synaptic to make the 'Restore' function of 'AptOnCD' application work.

3) Compiled drivers are NOT DE dependent, only kernel dependent. I 'believe' even the 'X' server configuration is not DE dependent, but there may be some extra settings that 'may' affect its performance (not sure about this). By the way, the xorg.conf file is no more used unless created manually or by a driver.

---

### Post by venom104 on 2012-10-22
> **varunendra said:**
> I'm not dead-sure, but can answer 'part' of two of your questions by experience.

1) Nautilus does not use 'hal' daemon (it is not even installed in Ubuntu 12.04) by default. I know because I had to manually install it from synaptic to make the 'Restore' function of 'AptOnCD' application work.

3) Compiled drivers are NOT DE dependent, only kernel dependent. I 'believe' even the 'X' server configuration is not DE dependent, but there may be some extra settings that 'may' affect its performance (not sure about this). By the way, the xorg.conf file is no more used unless created manually or by a driver.


Well thank you for answering. I'm going to leave this question open until someone answers question 1. I would like to stress that I don't need the answer to the question (since I'm basically using a work around), I want to LEARN why the problem is the way it is.

---

