---
title: "11.04  and Kindle"
date: 2011-05-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Rrory on 2011-05-13
Bother, I upgraded to 11.04, it was really easy but I plugged in my 3rd gen Kindle but Brasero wants to open it; but that's an audio player. I dont understand what's going on.

Also I'm trying to move a mobi file from my documents to my Kindle but I can't see how to do it. In the old 10.10 days I'd just open both folders, drag and drop.
 help....
Rory

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-13
On my Kindle, I open 2 "places" windows.  1 I set to where my mobi files are, the other I set to the documents folder on the Kindle.  Then I just copy the mobi file and paste it in the documents folder on the Kindle.  I use copy because I keep a folder called "e-books" on my desktop PC, with subfolders under it for authors.  That way I have all my books backed up on my desktop PC.
 
Mine also wants to open the Kindle as a digital audio device - I just cancel that and move on.  Don't know why - maybe there is a need for something in the udev rules to mount the Kindle as a disk device by default.  I may look into that.

---

### Post by sectshun8 on 2011-05-13
I noticed this as well.  Having just redone my Acer netbook, wiping XP and putting on 11.04... I needed to charge my Kindle an dnoticed plugging it in ran the default audio program.. and I thought... um... why doesn it come up as a drive.

I'm new to Ubuntu, and haven't had a chance to even run the online updates after install (I work on a ship in middle of Gulf of Mexico) so I'm pretty limited in what I can currently do with it.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-13
By the way - Calibre works with the Kindle 3 as well - I just got mine working with it.  There is an addition you need to make to a config file in order for it to be recognized.

As far as the Kindle being recognized as an audio device I changed the default action when it is recognized to take no action and keep as default.  I also found the entry in the udev rule file /lib/udev/rules.d/40-usb-media-players.rules where it identifies the kindle and sets it up:

ATTRS{idVendor}=="1949" , ATTRS{idProduct}=="0001|0002|0003|0004" , ENV{ID_MEDIA_PLAYER}="amazon_kindle"

I'm not really sure what to do at this point.  I know I need to create a rule file in /etc/udev/rules.d to override this, but what I don't know is how to change it to something like a ebook reader instead of media player.  I'll keep working on that.

---

### Post by sectshun8 on 2011-05-13
> **wep940 said:**
> ...

I'm not really sure what to do at this point.  I know I need to create a rule file in /etc/udev/rules.d to override this, but what I don't know is how to change it to something like a ebook reader instead of media player.  I'll keep working on that.

[IMG]http://www.customtacos.com/forum/images/smilies/new/waytogo.gif[/IMG]

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-13
Okay, I figured out how to stop ubuntu from thinking the kindle is a digital audio device by default.  Instead, it will just think it's a removable disk drive.  I rebooted and tested with Calibre and it still works there as well.

Here's what I did:

[LIST]
[*]open a terminal window (applications/accessories/terminal)
[*]type: cd /lib/udev/rules.d <press enter>
[*]cp 40-usb-media-players.rules 40-usb-media-players.save <press enter>
[*]sudo gedit 40-usb-media-players.rules <press enter>
[*]search for "kindle" - you should get a line that looks like this:
[/LIST]
ATTRS{idVendor}=="1949" , ATTRS{idProduct}=="0001|0002|0003|0004" , ENV{ID_MEDIA_PLAYER}="amazon_kindle"

[LIST]
[*]just go to the beginning of that line and insert # and a space, so the line is:
[/LIST]
# ATTRS{idVendor}=="1949" , ATTRS{idProduct}=="0001|0002|0003|0004" , ENV{ID_MEDIA_PLAYER}="amazon_kindle"

[LIST]
[*]save the file
[*]exit the editor
[*]exit the terminal
[*]reboot
[/LIST]
Now when you plug in your Kindle it should mount it so it looks like a disk drive.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-13
Just being curious, does someone know what to do to "remove" the default action for a device when it is mounted (like open folder, etc.)?  Is this stored in a udev rule somewhere as well?

---

### Post by pSYcl0Ne on 2011-05-13
OMG Calibre is like, the best thing ever for ebooks. Stanza+Calibre on iPhone/Kindle = awesome

---

### Post by Paqman on 2011-05-13
> **wep940 said:**
> By the way - Calibre works with the Kindle 3 as well - I just got mine working with it.  There is an addition you need to make to a config file in order for it to be recognized.


Really? Mine's always just worked. Are you on the beta firmware? (ie: the one with real page numbers?)

---

### Post by Donnybigboy on 2011-05-13
Hey all

Can anyone shed light as to why my ubuntu 11.04 will not see my kindle v3. It will see my ram stick no problems.
Thanks

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-14
> **Paqman said:**
> Really? Mine's always just worked. Are you on the beta firmware? (ie: the one with real page numbers?)

Not that I know of.  Just bought the thing 2 weeks ago - it was supposed to be the $139 one but they ran out so I ended up with the $119 one with the ads (actually not intrusive as I feared they would be).  What was happening was that Calibre never saw the device so if you tried to send to device it would just say no device found.  What the "patch" is doing is adding the USB device id to the list the Calibre will see.  I found it on the net.  As soon as updated that config file and restarted Calibre it found the Kindle immediately and let e know it had found it.

Don't know what the difference is, unless the version in 10.10 didn't have the device id in the config file but perhaps that with 11.04 it is.  I've been doing all of this from my 10.10 laptop - haven't tried it in 11.04 on the desktop yet - I guess it would be smart of me to do so ;)  I've just done the work on my laptop and copied the book files via a usb flash drive to the desktop.

Since it seems others are having trouble getting their Kindle seen by 11.04, it would be a good idea for me to try it.  Guess I'll do that tonight!

Good hearing from you!

EDIT:  BTW - the changes to the UDEV rule is to simply show the device as a disk and not a USB audio media device.  For me, at least, it's purely cosmetic.  Dragging/dropping, etc., is still the same ;)

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-14
I just went through the testing in 11.04 .  I still made the change to udev so that it doesn't come up and say it's an audio device and ask if I want to open it in Banshee.  BTW - for those posting here about 11.04 not seeing your Kindle - do you mean it comes up by default and says it's am audio device?  If so, don't take the default of opening with Banshee - instead select the option to do nothing.  Then make the change to the udev rule as I noted in a previous post and it won't come up like that again.  If you have questions, please post back describing exactly what you mean when you say 11.04 doesn't see your Kindle.

Indeed - they fixed the config file for Calibre in 11.04 also - no update was needed - Calibre recognized my Kindle right away.

Guess that's it.

---

### Post by Visuddhi on 2011-05-27
Just started using ubuntu, (so far very happy with it, only sorry i didn't try many years ago!)

How can set it to 'open kindle with calibre'

Then i could just plug in kindle and it would automatically download newspapers.

---

