---
title: "11.10 Image download problem"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by eklikeroomys on 2011-10-15
Hi,

I've wasted like 1 GB trying to download the 11.10 CD image, the download keeps stopping in the middle of nowhere and the fails. I understand that the servers are probably overloaded but they should limit the amount of downloads at a time so it doesnt waste our cap.

Anyway, is there another more reliable server from where Ubuntu can be downloaded?

Thanks!

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-10-15
> **eklikeroomys said:**
> Hi,

I've wasted like 1 GB trying to download the 11.10 CD image, the download keeps stopping in the middle of nowhere and the fails. I understand that the servers are probably overloaded but they should limit the amount of downloads at a time so it doesnt waste our cap.

Anyway, is there another more reliable server from where Ubuntu can be downloaded?

Thanks!
Are you sure that it is not your connection which drops somehow rather than the server resetting it?

In any case, using a Bittorrent client for downloading during the release days is the best option. It doesn't overload the servers, automatically checks the hashes and resumes from where it was in case of a connection drop, power failure etc.

---

### Post by mister_playboy on 2011-10-15
Yep... either use the [torrents](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/alternative-download) to download or wait a few days until the servers aren't being hit so hard.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2011-10-15
> **sikander3786 said:**
> Are you sure that it is not your connection which drops somehow rather than the server resetting it?

In any case, using a Bittorrent client for downloading during the release days is the best option. It doesn't overload the servers, automatically checks the hashes and resumes from where it was in case of a connection drop, power failure etc.

+1 for Torrent download. The only drawback is that it will consume more bandwidth, since it also uploads to other users. If you have a limited bandwidth quota, it might be better to wait a few days.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-10-15
+100 to torrents except for the limited quota thing as pointed out by lovinglinux.

It gives me maximum possible download speed and I don't think it is any less reliable than the direct download as long as you download via an authentic torrent: [http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/alternative-download#bt](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/alternative-download#bt)

By the way, I didn't understand the term 'bandwidth quota limitation'. Here in India, there are roughly only two types of package plans - limited or unlimited. Limited or unlimited in this context corresponds to the amount of data that can be downloaded (+) uploaded, not a limitation on the bandwidth (well, actually it has an 'upper' limit depending upon the plan). So I guess lovinglinux meant the same (amount of downloaded/uploaded data, not the bandwidth used).

---

### Post by Lisiano on 2011-10-15
Also +1 on torrent but personally, I've been a bad person and used this little code line to download
```
axel -a -n8 http://releases.ubuntu.com/oneiric/ubuntu-11.10-desktop-amd64.iso
```
Note I have a 100Mbit (11MB/s) down/20Mbit (2.2MB/s) up line so... Sorry to anyone that was downloading at that time. (2 days ago)
Note that if you use axel, your download will resume by default but if you use wget, you need to use either -c or --continue when you try to resume it.

EDIT: Also a good thing would be to use your local mirror to download, same place you get your Updates from, you can open the page in a browser then just navigate to ubuntu-releases/oneiric

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2011-10-15
> **varunendra said:**
> +100 to torrents except for the limited quota thing as pointed out by lovinglinux.

It gives me maximum possible download speed and I don't think it is any less reliable than the direct download as long as you download via an authentic torrent: [http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/alternative-download#bt](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/alternative-download#bt)

By the way, I didn't understand the term 'bandwidth quota limitation'. Here in India, there are roughly only two types of package plans - limited or unlimited. Limited or unlimited in this context corresponds to the amount of data that can be downloaded (+) uploaded, not a limitation on the bandwidth (well, actually it has an 'upper' limit depending upon the plan). So I guess lovinglinux meant the same (amount of downloaded/uploaded data, not the bandwidth used).

Yes, that was exactly what I meant. I didn't know the proper term in English. However, I believe some services can also throttle your bandwidth if you exceed a certain download/upload quota. This has been proposed and, if I remember correctly, is already being used by some US ISP. Anyways, if you have any sort of limitation on your plan, it is better to wait a few days.

---

### Post by jockyburns on 2011-10-15
Took me less than 10 minutes to download the ISO image from Ubuntu.com. Had problems burning to disc, and can't copy to usb stick at all, but finally managed to burn to a DVD and it works (dunno if that's perfectly though) I'm going to try it a few times before I even think about installing on to my computer though (already running Natty)

---

