---
title: "10.04 netbook online video playback"
date: 2012-01-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cairnzi on 2012-01-02
hi people,i have just installed 10.04 netbook on a acer aspire one and when i watch c4 on demand,iplayer Etc, the playback is always choppy and pretty much un watchable,i dont have this problem when it is installed on a laptop just the netbook, any ideas or a fix would be great,Cheers.

---

### Post by I2k4 on 2012-01-02
Hate to rain on the parade, but the 10.04 "Netbook Remix" was the very worst version for performance that I ran during my Live USB experiments a year or so ago.  It was slow as molasses compared with just about everything else I tried, and I dropped it.  That version was a prototype for the Unity interface that was released across the board in version 11.04.

If you like the Unity interface you'll get better performance on the little netty from 11.04 or 11.10 desktop Ubuntu.  The problem is that version 11.x Ubuntu (though not as bad as the blighted Netbook Edition) is still pretty demanding for a little Atom processor and 1GB of RAM.

For netbooks, there are various lightweight editions that run better - I'm currently dual booting Lubuntu with no performance complaints, but I didn't like most of its preinstalled software and replaced it (time consuming).  I strongly recommend using the Live USB with Persistence for a few weeks to test Lubuntu, Xubuntu, Puppy or other versions you'll read about on this forum.  Learn about the different interfaces and the software preinstalled or available from their software managers.

---

### Post by cairnzi on 2012-01-03
@I2k4,cheers for the reply,yeah it does seem to be a 10.04 netbook problem as i have not had this problem with any other distro.... oh well time to play around and see which one works best,Cheers.

---

### Post by I2k4 on 2012-01-03
It's worth experimenting with better versions - 10.04 Netbook is a rare stinker.  By the way, I forgot to mention that the Atheros adapter on the older Acer One machines had a serious problem with its "power saving" setting.  My first 2008 netbook ran XP and I know how to fix it there, but not with Linux.  My notes:

Atheros Wi Fi adapter: shipped v7.6.0.260
081109 - changed advanced/power saving from "max" to "off",
does not affect temperature/fan operation
091119 - Windows Update provided version 7.70.406 - power saving still "off"

Maybe someone more knowledgeable can help.  There's an excellent resource here:

[http://www.aspireoneuser.com/forum/index.php](http://www.aspireoneuser.com/forum/index.php)

Good luck.

---

