---
title: "Cant get wireless working ...."
date: 2008-08-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by VitaminBB on 2008-08-01
Ive read some other posts and have generally spent yesterday trying to figure out how to get my wireless internet to work, it just wont.

Heres the details ...

I installed 8.04 ubuntu and it works with my wireless card just fine, infact I can log into some weak wifi signals around my apartment, so I know thats not the problem.

I have a 128bit WEP key on my router (linksys running "tomato" firmware).

Here is where I cant seem to wrap my head around this and im sure ull have a good laugh at my fresh smelling noobness but when my wireless connection is set to "roaming" mode I then select my router and then I select the 128bit wep option, apparently they really want me to use a passphrase as theres no way on this screen to put an actual wep key ...

So I log into my router, put a passphrase on my wep key and then tried to connect to my router, wouldnt work.

So I then turned off roaming mode and selected my router and lo and behold buried inside some options is the ability to type in my wep key, when I then try to connect it tells me im connected but 0bits of info will come through, nothing gets connected.

So I added a passphrase and have no area to enter the wep key in one option and it wont work and when i try the other option and put in a wep key it wont actually connect.

WTF?!

If you can help ur good ppl and will have the blessings of Canada upon you.

---

### Post by Immolatus on 2008-08-01
you need to switch your wep to 64 bit and use the Hex key generated by the router software. As far as I know ubuntu doesn't support 128 (or at least is very cranky with it). Also I would try connecting with the wep turned of, just to rule out any interference issues.

---

### Post by VitaminBB on 2008-08-01
arent I opening myself up for problems if I leave it without a wep key?

im going to try ur first suggestion right now, wish me luck :)

---

### Post by james_vanb on 2008-08-01
Have you gone through this tutorial?

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202834&highlight=wep](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202834&highlight=wep)

---

### Post by Immolatus on 2008-08-01
I'm not saying to leave the security down permanently, just to figure out the details. I don't use wep at all with Linux I just use mac filtering. most wireless routers are capable of both.

---

### Post by VitaminBB on 2008-08-01
That worked!

Thanks a lot, ur a good man

---

