---
title: "8.4 And The Internet Connections"
date: 2008-11-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Pete Medium on 2008-11-17
I'm waiting for my 8.10 CD to arrive in a few weeks, but in the meantime I'm unable to get onto the internet with my 8.4 Ubuntu. It this becasue the CD for 8.40 didn't have the internet connection included? I am having so much trouble trying to connect to the internet with Ubuntu and my Optus server. Can anyone help????

---

### Post by shredder12 on 2008-11-18
well, first of all its 8.04 and please specify what are the problems you are facing while connecting to internet..
are you able to configure you internet connection...
Please specify your problem...

---

### Post by Pete Medium on 2008-11-18
I have just got off the phone from Optus Technical support. They tell me they have never heard of Ubuntu. They are the second largest Wireless broadband suppliers in Australia. How come??? They support Microsoft and Apple and suggest I get onto Ubuntu to find out the answer to my query.
I have installed my Optus Wireless broadband modum to my computer, and on the home window of Ubuntu it shows up the icon but I can't get connected. Does any one, preferably in Australi, know how to overcome this problem.
Your help would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by Pete Medium on 2008-11-18
I posted that above in another thread and got no replies. I am a rank outsider when it comes to computer use. I honestly don't know what 'configure' means or where to start. I have searched everything I could find on Ubuntu and nothing show that indicated any 'configuring'
What specifically do you want to know? Please

---

### Post by shredder12 on 2008-11-18
well i m not able to understand how does that company doesn't know about Ubuntu. If you every get a chance kindly search for Ubuntu on wiki and read the first paragraph there you will find that Ubuntu has been rated as the most popular distro for desktops. 
Newaz.. as far as your problem is concerned may be you should read the help pages about connecting to internet through a modem..
System->Help and Support
I don't know specifically how do you connect through a wireless modem in Ubuntu but i think those help pages will be quite helpful..
If that doesn't even help then there will be someone here who might know how to do this..
Well wasn't there anything in the manual about using the modem in Linux ( no specific distributions ).

---

### Post by danny_galaga on 2008-11-18
most help desks wont have heard of ubuntu. many wont even know what linux is. 

your broadband, is it adsl? or mobile wireless? if its adsl (through the telephone line) it should connect. mobile wireless is more problematic as ive found out! although it may work in 8.10, i havent upgraded yet to find out.

in the network manager (near the top right hand side of your desktop, is it set to auto connect? or configure. i cant remember right now because i dont have network manager anymore! anyway, it should say something about a DHCP connection. i might jump back into another computer that has network manager and come back to you...

---

### Post by Pete Medium on 2008-11-18
Wow somwone who know what they're talking about....thank you, thank you. I have Wireless Broadband...mobile wireless I guess....I live in a mobile home and I don't have a land line connection. Now you've lost me hehehe...I don't know what a DHCP stands for, and I'll will go check out if there is an auto connect or a configure for when you return...so much appreciate someone who knows what they're talking about...

---

### Post by bennachie on 2008-11-18
Can you tell us precisely what mobile dongle you are using (I'm with Vodafone and Telstra - don't ask - and am not familiar with the Optus devices)? The name of the modem will probably be printed on the back of the dongle. The Vodafone is a Huawei E220, and the Telstra standard was, until recently, a Maxon BP-3. 

Either of these devices can be made to work under Ubuntu 8.10 without great difficulty (actually none at all, in the case of the E220, which works straight out of the box), but Ubuntu 8.04 required more gymnastics. If you have something different, I'll see what I can find out for you.

I am not at all surprised that the Optus technician professed ignorance of Ubuntu - he might, just possibly, have heard of Linux, but would simply have said the company didn't undertake to support it. His counterparts in Telstra and Vodafone would probably have done no better, but that hasn't stopped me and others from using their respective services.

---

### Post by Pete Medium on 2008-11-18
OK I've ipened up Wireless Network at the top right hand corner and it reads:
Wireless Network
Connect to Other Wireless Network...
Create New Wireless Network...
Manual Ccnfigurations.

I opened up the last one...and get Network Settings
There are four tabs: Connections Gerneral, DNS and Host
Under Connections there is listed:
Wireless Connection
Wired Connection
Point to point connec...but none of them react to the mouse pointer
Below this are three tabs: Help, unlock and close
OK thats for starters...have I gone too far????

---

### Post by Pete Medium on 2008-11-18
OK well the optus modum thingy is CE 0682 HUAWEI Model Number E169

---

### Post by bennachie on 2008-11-18
You're not actually making a wireless (wi-fi) connection at all - technically, all the mobile broadband connections operate as a somewhat specialised kind of dial-up modem.

The network manager in 8.10 is aware of these niceties, and offers you plain English options for navigating through them, which is why life got much easier when the update was released.

It might even be quicker to send you an 8.10 LiveCD than to work through some of the possible permutations (but let's wait until you find out exactly what's inside your dongle).

---

### Post by Pete Medium on 2008-11-18
Yes that was exactly what the 'Indian' gentleman said...and for what it's worth I still have three emails to Obtus Tech support and four to Telstra that haven't so far been answered...one is over four months old...great customer service huh????

---

### Post by danny_galaga on 2008-11-18
> **Pete Medium said:**
> Wow somwone who know what they're talking about....thank you, thank you. I have Wireless Broadband...mobile wireless I guess....I live in a mobile home and I don't have a land line connection. Now you've lost me hehehe...I don't know what a DHCP stands for, and I'll will go check out if there is an auto connect or a configure for when you return...so much appreciate someone who knows what they're talking about...


and now ive had a look, it looks like my memory failed me! and i really dont know what im talking about! but now i know that you have the same problem as me! i have a huawei e169 too. mines a dodo, but they go through optus. ill upgrade to 8.10 as soon as possible and let you know if it works.

oh, and as bennachie says, what we have is not a 'wireless network'. its a mobile wireless broadband connection. specifically, a 3G/  HSDPA network. basically a mobile phone. a wireless network is more like a pair of walkie talkies...

---

### Post by Pete Medium on 2008-11-18
OK further to this. I click on "Unlock" and it asks for my password. I type in my password, then click Authenticate and get:
Could Not Authenticate...An Unexpected error has occurred.

---

### Post by Pete Medium on 2008-11-18
Yes that right, we work through a mobile network and towers....it sounds to me like I have just got to wait for my 8.10 copy to arrive...in the meantime, I have to tell the group I belong to to forget about upgrading 8.04 and order the 8.10...wished I'd met you two before I started on this long, and frustrating journey....thank you both so very, very much. *S*

---

### Post by Pete Medium on 2008-11-18
> **bennachie said:**
> 

"It might even be quicker to send you an 8.10 LiveCD than to work through some of the possible permutations (but let's wait until you find out exactly what's inside your dongle").

Well I ordered 8.10 about four weeks ago, so I guess I have two weeks to wait...unless you know a quicker way to get a copy. I'll give you my email addie so that I can give you a postal addie: 
[email]petethemedium@yahoo.com.au[/email]
Again sincere thanks to you both. 
Pete

---

### Post by danny_galaga on 2008-11-18
well, ive just upgraded 8.04 to 8.10. been meaning to for a week, you were the stimulus for me to get a move on! definitely in the right ball park with 8.10 for us. network manager automatically detects the USB stick. i dont yet know how to configure it, but its 2:20am so ill find out later :)

pete, if you have access to a wired connection you can upgrade to 8.10 from 8.04. you just need to make sure all the other upgrades have been done first. then just follow these instructions exactly:

[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading)

from where it says "Network Upgrade for Ubuntu Desktops (Recommended)"

otherwise youre just going to have to wait for that cd!

oh, and next time you talk to a help desk, say you are on linux. if they can help, then you can mention ubuntu. otherwise it will be too confusing. mostly they wont be able to help, but they probably have heard of linux, so they can say no straight away and avoid unnecessary grief...

---

### Post by Pete Medium on 2008-11-22
> **danny_galaga said:**
> well, ive just upgraded 8.04 to 8.10. been meaning to for a week, you were the stimulus for me to get a move on! definitely in the right ball park with 8.10 for us. network manager automatically detects the USB stick. i dont yet know how to configure it, but its 2:20am so ill find out later :)

pete, if you have access to a wired connection you can upgrade to 8.10 from 8.04. you just need to make sure all the other upgrades have been done first. then just follow these instructions exactly:

[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading)

from where it says "Network Upgrade for Ubuntu Desktops (Recommended)"

otherwise youre just going to have to wait for that cd!

oh, and next time you talk to a help desk, say you are on linux. if they can help, then you can mention ubuntu. otherwise it will be too confusing. mostly they wont be able to help, but they probably have heard of linux, so they can say no straight away and avoid unnecessary grief...


Thank you Danny,
Bennachie has sent me an 8.10 CD which I assume I will get on Monday, so I'll start there. 
Again thanks to you both for you help, very much appreciated.
Pete

---

### Post by Tanchelm on 2008-11-25
[QUOTE=danny_galaga;6202220]and now ive had a look, it looks like my memory failed me! and i really dont know what im talking about! but now i know that you have the same problem as me! i have a huawei e169 too. mines a dodo, but they go through optus. ill upgrade to 8.10 as soon as possible and let you know if it works.


I have the DODO E169 but 8.10 identifies it as another type of modem and then does not list DODO as a service provider!!!

any help on this issue... from anyone would be greatly appreciated:confused:

---

### Post by madverb on 2008-11-25
Optus Australia APN Settings
Here are the APN settings that you will need to get online.  
APN: internet
Username: {blank}
Password: {blank}
DNS: 202.139.83.3, 192.65.91.129

All authentication is done with the SIM card.

---

### Post by danny_galaga on 2008-12-13
hey pete,

did you ever get your system set up with the huwei? i havent gotten around to figuring it out since ive discovered i have a land line again.

---

