---
title: "11.10 Install Black Screen (New Windows 7 Machine)"
date: 2012-04-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by karasuman on 2012-04-11
I'm trying to put an ubuntu install on my new computer, but not having much luck.  I downloaded the 64 bit version of 11.10, burned it onto a CD, inserted the CD, and rebooted.

I get a screen with three options: try ubuntu, install ubuntu, and something else I can't remember.  (Sorry.)  No matter which one I pick, the screen goes black and nothing else happens.

My computer is an HP Omni with an NVIDIA GeForce GT 540M video card.  

I would really like to get Ubuntu running so I can actually use my computer.  Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by androssofer on 2012-04-11
> **karasuman said:**
> I'm trying to put an ubuntu install on my new computer, but not having much luck.  I downloaded the 64 bit version of 11.10, burned it onto a CD, inserted the CD, and rebooted.

I get a screen with three options: try ubuntu, install ubuntu, and something else I can't remember.  (Sorry.)  No matter which one I pick, the screen goes black and nothing else happens.

My computer is an HP Omni with an NVIDIA GeForce GT 540M video card.  

I would really like to get Ubuntu running so I can actually use my computer.  Any help is appreciated.

my asus eeebox did something similar. try making a live usb and boot from that.. 

then follow the instructions on the second post of this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1497056](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1497056)

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-04-11
If you're going to dual-boot, and you're currently running Win7 on your PC, then you need to do the following: Confirm that you don't already have the 4 Primary partition limit.  To do this, open the Win7 Disk Management utility and count the number of "drives" (that's what Windows calls partitions).  If you already have 4, then you're going to be faced with a LOT of work because you will have to remove one before you can create another for Ubuntu.

Also, check the "drive" types and confirm they are NOT Dynamic Disks.  Ubuntu can't be installed when Dynamic Disks are being used.

If you decide to go ahead with dual-boot, then do the following:
1) Use only the Win7 Disk Management utility to shrink your Win7 OS partition to make room for Ubuntu. Do NOT use the Ubuntu installer to do this. If you already have 4 partitions in Win7, do NOT allow the partitioner to create another partition.  This will convert your partitions into Dynamic Disks -- effectively preventing the installation of Ubuntu and causing you further problems.
2) Once you have Win7 shrunk, use the Win7 Backup feature to create and burn a Win7 Repair CD. This will come in handy later, should you need to repair your Win7 boot loader from the dual boot setup.

---

