---
title: "[SOLVED] New laptop issues"
date: 2008-12-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Walter Melon on 2008-12-15
I just bought a new laptop and am a little concerned about how many things don't work with a liveCD.  Among the most major ones: Wireless internet doesn't work, and the max screen resolution is 800x600 instead of 1366x768.  This might be a dumb question, but will I be able to make any changes without actually installing the OS?  I think the problem is that the necessary drivers are missing.  The wireless network card is an Intel Wireless WiFi Link 5100 AGN.  And the graphics card is a Nvidia GeForce 9300m GS.  Here's /etc/X11/xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-12-16
Those issues can be corrected after the install. You'll need the "Software restricted by copyright or legal issues" enabled within the software sources. These are not enabled by default and cannot be upgraded using the Live CD.

---

### Post by Walter Melon on 2008-12-16
Did I get the problem about the drivers right?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2008-12-16
> **Walter Melon said:**
> Did I get the problem about the drivers right?

Yes. Ubuntu doesn't ship the Nvidia driver by default because it's closed-source. Once Ubuntu is installed, you can use the Hardware Drivers program to install the driver for your graphics card. The official Nvidia driver can use the higher resolution.

I believe it's the same for the wireless as well, because the wireless card requires closed-source firmware to operate.

---

### Post by nhasian on 2008-12-16
to get your wifi adaptor to work you must add the linux-backports-modules-intrepid

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Atheros](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Atheros)

---

### Post by Walter Melon on 2008-12-22
I updated to 8.10 and the screen resolution is fixed and the wireless internet works great.  And I had to enable restricted sources for the graphics card.

---

