---
title: "9.04 upgrade-- upgrade kde too?"
date: 2009-04-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by qwertyuiop96 on 2009-04-17
I have ubuntu with KDE installed through syntapic.  I prefer KDE-- though I have left the original GNOME.  Anyway, I was concerned that when I upgrade to Jaunty (When final release)if it will upgrade KDE and kubuntu too.  Also- GNOME is pestering me for updates, while KDE isn't.  Will I need GNOME with my setup to do updates, too?  Any way to fix this?  Or are those updates GNOME specific.  Will KDE upgrade GNOME apps?  I know, lot of questions-- thanks for any help!

---

### Post by llamabr on 2009-04-17
There is no reason that you need to install gnome, nor any gnome specific apps, either now, or after yo upgrade.  You can remove any of them.

But yes, when you upgrade, you'll want to do an entire dist-upgrade.

---

### Post by qwertyuiop96 on 2009-04-17
> **llamabr said:**
> There is no reason that you need to install gnome, nor any gnome specific apps, either now, or after yo upgrade.  You can remove any of them.

I already have GNOME- I have ubuntu with KDE added on, so I can use GNOME and KDE.  And how do  you do a "full system upgrade" or whatever you call it.

---

### Post by mister_pink on 2009-04-17
The standard upgrade with sort out everything. Whilst ubuntu and kubuntu are packaged differently, KDE and Gnome are applications like any other and will all be sorted out by the package manager.

The reason one is bugging you for updates and not the other is probably due to them using different front ends for package management. Its probably just in the settings whether or not to inform you about updates and one is set to while the other isn't. KDE will update your gnome installation and vice versa.

---

### Post by qwertyuiop96 on 2009-04-17
> **mister_pink said:**
> The standard upgrade with sort out everything. Whilst ubuntu and kubuntu are packaged differently, KDE and Gnome are applications like any other and will all be sorted out by the package manager.

The reason one is bugging you for updates and not the other is probably due to them using different front ends for package management. Its probably just in the settings whether or not to inform you about updates and one is set to while the other isn't. KDE will update your gnome installation and vice versa.

Thanks!  That sorted out my upgrade worries.:D

---

