---
title: "mouse not working"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by berndj on 2010-05-05
Hi there,
I have been using Ubuntu for quite some time (more than 6mo). A couple of weeks ago my mouse started behaving in a funny way: It wouldn't release focus from firefox and I couldn't get anything else clicked on. I initially thought that it had something to do with one of the updates and my Nvidia graphics card (I also have an Nvidia mainboard). When I switched to one of the earlier kernels all went well (at least for a while). Then to make things worse I ansered yes to some updates and soon after I had the same problem.
Now I recently updated to 10.4 and by now the mouse doesn't work even with firefox. (so I am writing from a different computer).

I saw that there were error messages regarding the hard drive I use for the OS. So I reinstalled 10.4 hoping that the bad sectors would be accounted for. There was no real option shown to ensure me that the disk was reformatted...

Anyways I am pretty frustrated right now. I am about to try another harddrive and if this doesn't work I will probably buy a new computer and stay away from Nvidia as the support seems not so good for it.

I am looking for some commands to check the hard drive or other things I could try. I could probably test them using the bootable disk (This just came to mind so: No, I haven't tried if I have the same problem with the bootable disk. I will so tonight...).

I was able to store some system information that might help someone to understand my problem (see below).

thanks for reading and considering to help.

best
Bernd

System information report, generated by Sysinfo: 5/3/2010 10:11:35 AM
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo](http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo)

SYSTEM INFORMATION
    Running Ubuntu Linux, the Ubuntu 9.10 (karmic) release.
    GNOME: 2.28.1 (Ubuntu 2009-11-03)
    Kernel version: 2.6.31-16-generic-pae (#53-Ubuntu SMP Tue Dec 8 05:20:21 UTC 2009)
    GCC: 4.4.1 (i486-linux-gnu)
    Xorg: unknown (04 March 2010  09:56:47AM) (04 March 2010  09:56:47AM)
    Hostname: bernd-desktop
    Uptime: 2 days 16 h 45 min

CPU INFORMATION
    GenuineIntel, Intel(R) Pentium(R) Dual  CPU  E2180  @ 2.00GHz
    Number of CPUs: 2
    CPU clock currently at 1999.935 MHz with 1024 KB cache
    Numbering: family(6) model(15) stepping(13)
    Bogomips: 3999.87
    Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe nx 
lm constant_tsc arch_perfmon pebs bts pni dtes64 monitor ds_cpl est tm2 ssse3 cx16 xtpr pdcm lahf_lm

MEMORY INFORMATION
    Total memory: 4014 MB
    Total swap: 4816 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
    SCSI device -  scsi2
        Vendor:  ATA      
        Model:  ST3250620AS      
    SCSI device -  scsi3
        Vendor:  ATA      
        Model:  WDC WD10EADS-00M 
    SCSI device -  scsi5
        Vendor:  ATAPI    
        Model:  iHAS220   6      
    SCSI device -  scsi6
        Vendor:  LITE-ON  
        Model:  DVD SHD-16P1S    

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
    Host bridge
        nVidia Corporation C55 Host Bridge (rev a2)
        Subsystem: nVidia Corporation Device c55e
    PCI bridge(s)
        nVidia Corporation C55 PCI Express bridge (rev a1)
        nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 01)
        nVidia Corporation C55 PCI Express bridge (rev a1)
        nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 01)
    USB controller(s)
        nVidia Corporation MCP55 USB Controller (rev a1) (prog-if 10)
        nVidia Corporation MCP55 USB Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 20)
        VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 61)
        VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 61)
        VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 63) (prog-if 20)
        nVidia Corporation MCP55 USB Controller (rev a1) (prog-if 10)
        nVidia Corporation MCP55 USB Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 20)
        VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 61)
        VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 61)
        VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 63) (prog-if 20)
    ISA bridge
        nVidia Corporation MCP55 LPC Bridge (rev a2)
        Subsystem: nVidia Corporation Device c55e
    IDE interface
        nVidia Corporation MCP55 SATA Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 85 [Master SecO PriO])
        Subsystem: nVidia Corporation Device c55e

GRAPHIC CARD
    VGA controller
        nVidia Corporation NV42 [GeForce 6800 XT] (rev a2)
        Subsystem: XFX Pine Group Inc. Device 2177

SOUND CARD
    Multimedia controller
        nVidia Corporation MCP55 High Definition Audio (rev a2)
        Subsystem: nVidia Corporation Device c55e

---

### Post by PriceChild on 2010-05-05
I hope this isn't a silly question... but are you sure it isn't just your mouse failing?

Is it plugged in? Are the connectors dirty? Have you tried a spare mouse?

If its a ps/2 mouse have you tried a usb one? If its a usb one have you tried other ports?

I can't remember where its from, but I remember reading advice that you test the easiest things first. Even if they're unlikely.

---

### Post by berndj on 2010-05-05
Yup tested with another usb mouse some problem...
I have no reason believe that the mouse might be problem as it was working before and is currently working on another computer (windows XP)...

---

