---
title: "10.04 freezing and video, graphics problem"
date: 2010-05-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jafurcha on 2010-05-18
10.04 freezing and video problem
release 10.04 using kernel 2.6.32-22 generic GNOME 2.30.0
Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device [8086:3582] (rev 02)
Intel Pentium M Processor 1.60GHz
718.1 MiB of memory

It freezes when:
-I watch a Youtube video.
-I do anything graphics related within either Firefox or Chrome.
-Randomly within Firefox or Chrome. Often it will lose focus when typing a message in facebook and then I won't be able to type and I can move the mouse but not be able to click anything. At this point I have to hold the power button and restart.

[I will call this next part graphics testing:]
When I play Metroid Fusion with Visualboy Advance the processor will continually run at 99% until I close the program. It has problems running Breath of Fire using ZSNES emulator while the strategy guide text file is in the background. I used to be able to switch back and forth from the emu to the text file in 9.xx but as soon as I switched to 10.04 I could no longer do so using ZSNES as it will freeze the game graphics. It will not freeze the game however, and it will continue to run until I die in whatever game that I'm in. Having problems switching between programs suggested an x.org problem.

I also had the problem where, as soon as I upgraded to 10.04 the system would not boot unless I used the previous Kernel. At least it boots now, which may have been fixed by a recent update or because I employed Workaround A on this page but was afraid to do the others:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes)

Workaround A did this:
"echo options i915 modeset=1 | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/i915-kms.conf
sudo update-initramfs -u"
and now that the system was working I wondered if KMS was now a problem for the system so I input this same string again into the terminal but used "modeset =0" instead of "modeset =1". I restarted and there was a big warning about my graphics settings and the system asked me to switch back to default settings, which I did.

I also suspected an x.org GEM leak after reading a post and so I followed these instructions

"sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade"

Which should not have caused any problems.

Anyway thanks ahead of time.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-05-19
This is why it pays to read the Release Notes BEFORE you install or upgrade -- because they clearly state that there are ongoing problems with systems using Intel 8xxx-series video.

---

### Post by Catharsis on 2010-05-19
You can try installing Daniel Baumann's kernel from his PPA which has the experimental patch for this bug. Just be warned that it replaces the -22 kernel, so make sure you have another one installed just in case.
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:dnjl/kernel
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```

---

### Post by NeoQBirdie on 2010-05-19
This may sound like UTTER Absolute Beginner here, but how do I figure out if I have one of the Intel 8xxx-series? I'm having problems playing videos on youtube as well. I tried going to the adobe website to dpwnload a flash player, but it didn't look like anything there was what I needed.

---

### Post by Catharsis on 2010-05-19
> **NeoQBirdie said:**
> This may sound like UTTER Absolute Beginner here, but how do I figure out if I have one of the Intel 8xxx-series? I'm having problems playing videos on youtube as well. I tried going to the adobe website to dpwnload a flash player, but it didn't look like anything there was what I needed.

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

### Post by NeoQBirdie on 2010-05-19
Okay, this is it:

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G72M [Quadro NVS 110M/GeForce Go 7300] (rev a1)

I'm going to make the assumption this isn't an Intel 8xxx-series. Is there another problem that could be preventing youtube from working correctly?

---

### Post by Catharsis on 2010-05-19
> **NeoQBirdie said:**
> Okay, this is it:

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G72M [Quadro NVS 110M/GeForce Go 7300] (rev a1)

Your problem is most likely unrelated then. I suggest you search the forums and google for workarounds for your video card, and if you can't find anything, start a new thread. Feel free to keep following this one in case the problem is the same.

---

### Post by NeoQBirdie on 2010-05-19
> **Catharsis said:**
> Your problem is most likely unrelated then. I suggest you search the forums and google for workarounds for your video card, and if you can't find anything, start a new thread. Feel free to keep following this one in case the problem is the same.

Thanks for your help, I'll keep looking.

---

