---
title: "11.04 so many issues?"
date: 2011-07-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by luigibmth on 2011-07-18
i am totally new to linux and do see a future with it, however, at the moment i am struggling with doing so many simple things that in windows are a sneeze.  1. evolution mail client - i imported my outlook pst file and set up 3 accounts same as outlook. now every time i load evolution it flags a reminder from 2009 for a reminder of an event, which i cannot find to delete.  2.staying with evolution - how do i put a sender in a "whitelist"?  moving on to desktop   3. i have two monitors, i worked out quite easily how to use catylist software to enable panning across both monitors, however, i cannot place anything like firefox on screen two, the mouse can travel over (with a wierd graphic) but cannot get firefox or whatever across.  I guess i need some sort of beginners guide to ubuntu 11.04  any advice would be appreciated

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-07-18
Your post, especially containing several different issues and run-on into one large paragraph, is hard to read and comprehend.

You would do better here posting each problem as a separate post, as the solutions are likely to be unrelated.

---

### Post by luigibmth on 2011-07-18
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> Your post, especially containing several different issues and run-on into one large paragraph, is hard to read and comprehend.

You would do better here posting each problem as a separate post, as the solutions are likely to be unrelated.

 ok will do

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2011-07-18
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1807119](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1807119)
Closing here.

---

