---
title: "ATI 8750m"
date: 2013-04-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by moepkid on 2013-04-20
hey all, i have bought a new laptop with a 8750m ati card and windows 8.when i started it up i immediatly installed ubuntu. where can i download the drivers for my graphics card?? ubuntu says it uses my onboard graphic card (ivy intel). 
I couldnt found any info on the site :( i dont know if it will break my pc if i use my intel onboard card. I also want to play wow through wine, but u can't because Ubuntu doesn't uses my video card.

regards
Jordy

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-04-20
Hello!

It looks like you have hybrid ATI/Intel graphics then and you are in for some frustration, I'm afraid.  The OEMs have not given much support to Linux for these systems.

You should probably take a look [here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1930450) to start.  This will give you some indication of what others have done to get things to work

Your next stop should be [this](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HybridGraphics).

I wish you the best of luck.  This is a difficult problem across the Linux landscape, not just Ubuntu.

Cheers!

---

### Post by moepkid on 2013-04-21
Thanks, but do i break my laptop if i continue to use it without my anti card?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-04-21
You won't break your laptop.

My understanding of hybrid graphics on Linux is that you can still install the ATI driver and use your ATI card 100% of the time (like what everyone did before hybrid graphics were invented) or you can choose not to install that driver and just use the Intel card 100% of the time. Those are easy. The only difficult thing is getting the hybrid graphics to switch between Intel and ATI to save that small amount of power.

If you don't think you'll need the extra battery life from being able to fall back to Intel graphics, then feel free to just install the ATI driver from Software Sources (Ubuntu 12.10: Ubuntu Software Center > Edit menu > Software Sources) or Additional Drivers (Ubuntu 12.04: type Additional Drivers into the Dash). If you are not offered the ATI driver from those places your card is a little too new to be automatically detected by Ubuntu, but you can download the official ATI driver from the AMD website.

---

### Post by moepkid on 2013-04-21
> **3rdalbum said:**
> You won't break your laptop.

My understanding of hybrid graphics on Linux is that you can still install the ATI driver and use your ATI card 100% of the time (like what everyone did before hybrid graphics were invented) or you can choose not to install that driver and just use the Intel card 100% of the time. Those are easy. The only difficult thing is getting the hybrid graphics to switch between Intel and ATI to save that small amount of power.

If you don't think you'll need the extra battery life from being able to fall back to Intel graphics, then feel free to just install the ATI driver from Software Sources (Ubuntu 12.10: Ubuntu Software Center > Edit menu > Software Sources) or Additional Drivers (Ubuntu 12.04: type Additional Drivers into the Dash). If you are not offered the ATI driver from those places your card is a little too new to be automatically detected by Ubuntu, but you can download the official ATI driver from the AMD website.

So there are drivers for my card, but where exactly do i download them? Can you please give me step by step instructions?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-04-21
> **moepkid said:**
> So there are drivers for my card, but where exactly do i download them? Can you please give me step by step instructions?

You can get drivers from AMD.com. I can't give you step-by-step instructions because I use an Nvidia graphics card, sorry. The AMD website should give you a set of instructions, or you could Google for "ubuntu 12.10 ati driver".

---

### Post by rikkinho on 2013-05-09
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1917897](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1917897)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1930450](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1930450)

try one or another, but hbrid graphic intel/amd are a really a bad choise for linux i know that (i sell my laptop because of that)

---

