---
title: "9.10 upgrade has killed my spotify"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by victorcrane on 2009-11-03
Hi folks, just wondered if anyone else encountered this? Been running spotify under wine without any issues for a long time, the new distro upgrade has left it jerky and unusable, sometimes the whole thing just descends into white noise. Tried reinstalling but no joy. 

Any thoughts?

:p

---

### Post by gioz on 2009-11-03
me too

---

### Post by alphaniner on 2009-11-03
I know I've seen at least one other thread about spotify and 9.10, have searched the forums?

---

### Post by sussexslanter on 2009-11-03
This might sound like the most obvious thing in the world...but have you tried exiting it and trying again a couple of times?  On the first use of Spotify after upgrade to 9.10 it told me there was a problem with my sound card, unable to play music.  Same on the second.  But on the third it plays fine.

---

### Post by victorcrane on 2009-11-04
Didn't spot the other thread I'll see if I can dig it out, I have tried closing and restarting, even tried reinstalling but no joy as yet...

---

### Post by dijkstra_hbg on 2009-11-09
I experienced the same problem after my upgrade to 9.10 as well. My solution was to change the settings of wine sound from Alsa to OSS drivers.

---

### Post by Lateralis on 2009-11-09
I too had a few problems with Spotify.  I found that it would normally work for something between 10 and 30 seconds.  Today I decided to uninstall Spotify through wine and then *purge* wine from my system, before reinstalling.  

```

sudo aptitude purge wine
sudo aptitude install wine

```

Thus far - *fingers crossed* - it seems OK.

---

### Post by Lateralis on 2009-11-10
As an addendum to my previous post, I have actually also changed my sound drivers from ALSA to EsounD.  So far so good! =)  

Thusly, I'd recommend anyone else still having issues to uninstall Spotify through wine and then
```

sudo aptitude purge wine
sudo aptitude install wine

```

to totally remove Wine and all of its configuration files before reinstalling it.  If the sound still stutters you should try a different driver.  As I say, EsounD seems to work fine for me. =)

---

### Post by farbror_ace on 2009-11-11
Got the same problem after upgrade,
all I had to do though was to change from ALSA to ESound driver. ( In WINE settings)

---

### Post by Phillip Spencer on 2009-11-12
Found this thread while searching for answers to Spotify not playing backafter upgrade to 9.10.  Tried the suggestions to change from ALSA to EsounD drivers worked for me.  Thanks!!!

---

### Post by matthewbpt on 2009-11-12
Mine worked fine after upgrading, I use OSS as the sound system in wine, and then run spotify with the padsp command, ie:

```
padsp wine 'C:\Program Files\Spotify\Spotify.exe'
```

This works much better than selecting Alsa or EsD as the sound drivers.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2009-11-12
Strange. Mine works just fine with the ALSA driver. Using Ubuntu 8.04, though, and the latest Wine.

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=135983&stc=1&d=1258077204[/IMG]

---

### Post by mr_rg on 2009-11-13
Had the same problem.

Uninstalled wine and spotify.

Then I installed wine1.2 (look at wine home page download ubuntu) and reinstalled spotify.

And the problem was gone.

---

### Post by damianusthesage on 2009-11-19
I can confirm that the same thing worked or me. I had to remove Wine and reinstall spotify though.

Esound driver works perfectly.

---

### Post by andreasj80 on 2009-12-03
Worked for me too. Thanx!

---

### Post by lucast on 2009-12-03
Another option is to add the Wine PPA and upgrade to the latest development release.

[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-wine/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-wine/+archive/ppa)

---

