---
title: "8.04 from CD - will it erase my 7.10 desktop?"
date: 2008-06-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by flameproof on 2008-06-01
I have 7.10 installed and it's running nicely. I can't do the update via the install manager due to extreme slow net connection.

My question is: when I install 8.04 from CD will it delete the old system, files etc.?

---

### Post by tamoneya on 2008-06-01
its going to delete your files and such yes.  Ideally what you should setup is a /home partition.  All of your files and configurations etc reside in /home/user.  If you do this then you can tell the install CD to reinstall ubuntu but to continue to use your /home partition.

---

### Post by raydeen on 2008-06-01
> **flameproof said:**
> I have 7.10 installed and it's running nicely. I can't do the update via the install manager due to extreme slow net connection.

My question is: when I install 8.04 from CD will it delete the old system, files etc.?

Unless you install to a different partition, yes. I would back up your desktop, documents, etc. and do a clean install. In my experience, upgrading has been more of a hassle than what it's worth. A clean install and then transfer of your documents is a lot better. The way to avoid this in the future is to make an additional partition and place /home in that partition. That way if you do an upgrade, the home folder isn't touched.

---

### Post by untermensch on 2008-06-01
Another vote for clean install. Updating is a problem even with a fast connection, and sometimes dealing with a /home partition can be a pain. back up your files, and do a clean install.

---

### Post by tact on 2008-06-01
> **flameproof said:**
> I have 7.10 installed and it's running nicely. I can't do the update via the install manager due to extreme slow net connection.

My question is: when I install 8.04 from CD will it delete the old system, files etc.?

If you boot from the CD and initiate an install the answer will be "it depends".

If you have /home on a separate partition (always a good idea) then you can do an install, use manual partition setup and make sure you reassign the current /home partition (whatever it is... /dev/sdaX etc) and  do NOT format /home  - then you can have a fresh new install but still keep your /home intact.

If you do not have /home on a partition of its own...  sorry - if you boot from CD and initiate an install you will lose everything in /home.

There IS another way....

If you have a running v7.10 you should boot that up.  Boot from the HDD.  Then insert the 8.04 CD (liveCD or alternate installer does not matter).   With some luck a dialog box will pop up telling you that the CD you inserted into the CD drive contains packages and will offer to upgrade your system.   If you say yes...to upgrading your system then the result will be the same as if you were to do the upgrade online over the net.

After the CD based upgrade begins...  at some point if you are connected to the internet it will scan the repositories for updated software.  If you have a really slow connection and do not want that to happen (do the updates later with a fast connection)...  make sure you are NOT connected to the internet in any way when you start the CD upgrade.

Make sure you are CLEAR on the difference between doing a CD based upgrade as compared to a CD installation.  If you get it wrong you will lost /home.   If you get it right you will have a very fast "upgrade" and lose none of your present desktop or settings.

as always..  back up first.  ;)

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-06-01
What I've been doing is actually dual (or even triple) booting 8.04 with my other OS(s) until I know I can work out any and all problems.

Not all that hard really:

[http://www.herman.linuxmaniac.net/p22.html](http://www.herman.linuxmaniac.net/p22.html)

Then if for any reason Hardy doesn't suit your hardware, etc. no sweat. You'll just have to make some minor adjustments in GRUB to make sure Gutsy is first to boot and ditch Hardy. Gutsy is supported until April 09.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-06-01
you can upgrade to hardy from the alternate cd.

---

