---
title: "12.04 and RTL8101E/RTL8201E"
date: 2012-12-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by philwx on 2012-12-12
Ubuntu 12.04 and RTL8101E/RTL8201E PCI Express Fast Ethernet Controller

I am completely new to linux. I have installed kxStudio on ubuntu 12.04 (upgraded from 10.x install). I was successfully booting with the kxStudio 3.2.0-33-lowlatency kernel.

All seemed well except for poor network connectivity. So I followed the instructions in post #3 (KomodoDave) here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1964200](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1964200)

Here is the gist of that post:

Download drivers.

Then
```
sudo gedit  /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
```Add line
```
blacklist r8169
```Then
```
sudo update-initramfs -u && cd ~/Downloads && tar xvf r8101-1.022.00.tar.bz2 && cd r8101-1.022.00 && sudo sh autorun.sh
```Unfortunately after taking these steps my computer will not boot using the low latency kernel (it stops with a black screen immediately after grub). It will boot using the 2.6.32-45 kernel.

Having booted with the 2.6.x kernel I commented out the 'blacklist r8169' line in blacklist.conf but the computer will still not boot using the low latency kernel.

I need the low latency kernel because 2.6.x does not see my usb soundcard. I also believe I will need the low latency kernel for audio work.

How do I best remedy this situation? I presume the first step is to recover the use of the low latency kernel. However, because I do not at all understand KomodoDave's final command I have no idea what to do.

**Additional Info**
I can only boot with the 2.6.x kernel. With this it appears (from lspci -v) the computer is using the r8169 drivers even if I have the 'blacklist r8169' line in blacklist.conf. I understand so little!

Also, I have removed and (re)installed the low latency kernel but no difference.

Also, I never was able to boot 12.04 using the default 3.2.0-34 kernel (it stops after grub with a blank screen the colour of the desktop). I had to use the 2.6.x kernel. However, before trying to fix the network card the pc did boot with the low latency kernel.

**Low Latency Kernel Is Back**
I took a punt and it worked - After commenting out the 'blacklist r8169' line in blacklist.conf I ran:
```
update-initramfs -u -k -all
```
I am now again able to use the low latency kernel.

So I appear to be back where I started - able to use the low latency kernel but with a poor network connection.

Any suggestions to solve my poor network connectivity much appreciated.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-16
I am troubled by all the commands strung together with && because you can't isolate and correct any problems along the way. Second, I notice that r8101-1.02[COLOR="Red"]3[/COLOR].00 is available: [http://www.realtek.com.tw/Downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=14&PFid=7&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false](http://www.realtek.com.tw/Downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=14&PFid=7&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false)

I suggest you download it and do each step individually:```
cd ~/Downloads
tar xvf r8101-1.023.00.tar.bz2
cd r8101-1.023.00
sudo sh autorun.sh
```If there is an error or even something that smells funny, stop and ask. We'll unload and blacklist r8169 at the end if it all goes well.

I also assume you have previously installed linux-headers-generic and build-essential.

---

### Post by philwx on 2012-12-16
Hello Chili555, thank you very much for helping. Here is the output:

Check old driver and unload it. 
rmmod r8101 
Build the module and install 
DEPMOD 3.2.0-33-lowlatency 
load module r8101 
Updating initramfs. Please wait. 
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-3.2.0-33-lowlatency 
Completed. 
phil@phil-desktop:~/Downloads/r8101-1.023.00$

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-16
Looks pretty good so far. Let's verify some things:```
lspci -nn | grep 0200
lsmod | grep r8
cat /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf | tail -n5
```Thanks.

---

### Post by philwx on 2012-12-16
Sorry for the delay in responding but I have to email the output to a windows pc to successfully comment (I can read this thread in ubuntu but cannot post).

Here's the output:

phil@phil-desktop:~/Downloads/r8101-1.023.00$ lspci -nn | grep 
0200 02:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.  RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller [10ec:8136] (rev 02)
phil@phil-desktop:~/Downloads/r8101-1.023.00$ lsmod | grep r8 
r8101                  90426  0 
phil@phil-desktop:~/Downloads/r8101-1.023.00$ cat  /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf | tail -n5 
# continues to build and is installable for the few cases where its 
# really needed. 
blacklist amd76x_edac 
# blacklist r8169 
# blacklist r8101 
phil@phil-desktop:~/Downloads/r8101-1.023.00$

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-16
We know that's the correct driver for your device from modinfo:```
# modinfo src/r8101.ko
filename:       src/r8101.ko
version:        1.023.00-NAPI
license:        GPL
description:    RealTek RTL-8101 Fast Ethernet driver
author:         Realtek and the Linux r8101 crew <netdev@vger.kernel.org>
srcversion:     4AFC1A1629E24088CD227A4
alias:          pci:v0000[COLOR="Red"]10EC[/COLOR]d0000[COLOR="Red"]8136[/COLOR]sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
depends:        
vermagic:       3.5.0-19-generic SMP mod_unload modversions 686 
parm:           eee_enable:int
parm:           speed:force phy operation. Deprecated by ethtool (8). (array of int)
parm:           duplex:force phy operation. Deprecated by ethtool (8). (array of int)
parm:           autoneg:force phy operation. Deprecated by ethtool (8). (array of int)
parm:           rx_copybreak:Copy breakpoint for copy-only-tiny-frames (int)
parm:           use_dac:Enable PCI DAC. Unsafe on 32 bit PCI slot. (int)
parm:           debug:Debug verbosity level (0=none, ..., 16=all) (int)
```We see that it's loaded and r8169 is not. I suggest you change the blacklist file to un-comment r8169:```
# really needed.
blacklist amd76x_edac
blacklist r8169
# blacklist r8101 
```Now do you have an interface, ideally eth0?```
ifconfig
```Will it connect? Is it fast, fast, fast? Are we solved??> (I can read this thread in ubuntu but cannot post).
Why, because the ethernet is too slow or what?

---

### Post by philwx on 2012-12-16
2.6.32-45 kernel

Before I ran your these commands I had to restart. The computer would not boot using the 3.2.0-33-lowlatency kernel. I am now using the 2.6.32-45 kernel.

I uncommented the line in blacklist file. 

Here's the ifconfig output:

phil@phil-desktop:~$ ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:30:67:3b:ca:24
           inet addr:192.168.1.10  Bcast:192.168.1.255 Mask:255.255.255.0
           inet6 addr: fe80::230:67ff:fe3b:ca24/64 Scope:Link
           UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
           RX packets:758 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
           TX packets:824 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
           collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
           RX bytes:685645 (685.6 KB)  TX bytes:104056 (104.0 KB)
           Interrupt:26

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback
           inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
           inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
           UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
           RX packets:4 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
           TX packets:4 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
           collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
           RX bytes:240 (240.0 B)  TX bytes:240 (240.0 B)

phil@phil-desktop:~$

However, the network connection is still poor. I can browse some web sites consistently, others are inconsistent, others are never loaded. I thinklighter web sites load better but I cannot download firefox extensions (which is how I would normally measure page size).

I can load this thread but not post. Larger packages seem to have trouble downloading using package manager. I previously tried chrome browser and it was the same.

So I ran your previous commands again:

phil@phil-desktop:~$ lspci -nn | grep 0200
02:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. 
RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller [10ec:8136] (rev 02)
phil@phil-desktop:~$ lsmod | grep r8
r8169                  34140  0
mii                     4381  1 r8169
phil@phil-desktop:~$ cat /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf | tail -n5
# continues to build and is installable for the few cases where its
# really needed.
blacklist amd76x_edac
blacklist r8169
# blacklist r8101
phil@phil-desktop:~$

It seems the r8169 drivers is still being used. Is this because I am using the 2.6.x kernel?

So I restarted again but this appears to have changed nothing. Still not able to use low latemcy kernel. The commands above return the same output.

Thanks again for your help,
Phil

---

### Post by philwx on 2012-12-16
I'm sorry Chili555 but I completey missed this earlier: 

> **chili555 said:**
> I also assume you have previously installed linux-headers-generic and build-essential.

The answer is I do not know. So I suspect  not.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-16
> It seems the r8169 drivers is still being used. Is this because I am using the 2.6.x kernel?Yes. You compiled r8101 for the 3.2.0-33-lowlatency kernel and not 2.6.x. Are there any clues as to why it won't boot here?```
less /var/log/syslog
```less allows you to use the arrow keys or PgUp and PgDn to look for the problem at the time you tried and failed to boot. Get out of less with q.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-16
> **philwx said:**
> I'm sorry Chili555 but I completey missed this earlier: 



The answer is I do not know. So I suspect  not.I suspect so, or the r8101 compile would have stopped in an error or two. It didn't, did it? Didn't it compile without complaint?

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-12-16
If the 3.2 kernel has always been booting to that screen, perhaps that's a separate problem - the video.  I'd try one of the video boot options to see if it will boot.  But you need to decide which you want - the old kernel with working wireless, or if you're willing to work with getting the newer kernel running and the wireless working.

Didn't mean to intrude on your great work chilli555 - just thought perhaps the kernel issue is separate from the wireless.

---

### Post by philwx on 2012-12-17
> **chili555 said:**
> I suspect so, or the r8101 compile would have  stopped in an error or two. It didn't, did it? Didn't it compile without  complaint?

Yes, it compiled without complaint

> **squakie said:**
> just thought perhaps the kernel issue is separate from the wireless.

Just to be clear - I am using a wired connection. It is true that I have never been able to start 12.04 with the default kernel.

Currently, I cannot boot with any kernel. When I select 2.6.x at grub the pc displays:
```

 BusyBox v1.18.5 (Ubuntu 1:1.18.5-1ubuntu4.1) built in shell (ash)
 Enter 'help' for a list of built in commands
 
 (initramfs)
```[I have unplugged exyernal hardware (usb drive & usb soundcard) but  no difference. The other kernels result in a blank screen.]

---

### Post by philwx on 2012-12-18
Ok something odd is happening. I guess I have done something stupid in my install/upgrade process. I am going to install a fresh 12.04.

Thanks for your help

---

### Post by philwx on 2012-12-20
After a fresh install I was able to install the r8101 drivers.

Unfortunately I am still experiencing poor network connectivity. I have started a new thread for this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2096614](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2096614)

---

### Post by colmeweb on 2012-12-26
Hey, I am having a similar problem. I have just done a fresh install of 12.10 on a toshiba satellite c850d duel booting with windows 8. I have no wireless connection. It doesn't show in the top panel or the network settings. I replaced the r8169 driver with r8101 as recommended in this thread. Unfortunately I still don't have any sign of my wireless. Below is the output from what I did.

```

colin@colin-Satellite-C850D:~$ lspci -v
02:00.0 Network controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Device 8723
	Subsystem: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Device 0723
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 4
	I/O ports at 3000 [size=256]
	Memory at f0200000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
	Capabilities: <access denied>

06:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 05)
	Subsystem: Toshiba America Info Systems Device ff1e
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 44
	I/O ports at 2000 [size=256]
	Memory at f0104000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=4K]
	Memory at f0100000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=16K]
	Capabilities: <access denied>
	Kernel driver in use: r8169
	Kernel modules: r8169

colin@colin-Satellite-C850D:~$ cd ~/Downloads
colin@colin-Satellite-C850D:~/Downloads$ tar xvf r8101-1.023.00.tar.bz2
r8101-1.023.00/
r8101-1.023.00/src/
r8101-1.023.00/src/rtltool.h
r8101-1.023.00/src/rtl_eeprom.h
r8101-1.023.00/src/r8101.h
r8101-1.023.00/src/r8101_n.c
r8101-1.023.00/src/rtl_ethtool.h
r8101-1.023.00/src/rtl_eeprom.c
r8101-1.023.00/src/Makefile_linux24x
r8101-1.023.00/src/Makefile
r8101-1.023.00/src/rtltool.c
r8101-1.023.00/autorun.sh
r8101-1.023.00/readme
r8101-1.023.00/Makefile
colin@colin-Satellite-C850D:~/Downloads$ cd r8101-1.023.00
colin@colin-Satellite-C850D:~/Downloads/r8101-1.023.00$ sudo sh autorun.sh
[sudo] password for colin: 

Check old driver and unload it.
rmmod r8101
Build the module and install
DEPMOD 3.5.0-21-generic
load module r8101
Updating initramfs. Please wait.
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-3.5.0-21-generic
Completed.
colin@colin-Satellite-C850D:~/Downloads/r8101-1.023.00$ cd ~/
colin@colin-Satellite-C850D:~$ lspci -nn | grep 0200
06:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller [10ec:8136] (rev 05)
colin@colin-Satellite-C850D:~$ lsmod | grep r8
r8101                 103388  0 
colin@colin-Satellite-C850D:~$ cat /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf | tail -n5
# continues to build and is installable for the few cases where its
# really needed.
blacklist amd76x_edac
blacklist r8169


```

If anyone out there has an answer please help.
Thanks.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-27
>  I replaced the r8169 driver with r8101 as recommended in this thread. Unfortunately I still don't have any sign of my wireless. Of course not. These are wired ethernet drivers. Please post your own new thread and include:```
lspci -nn | grep 0280
```

---

### Post by colmeweb on 2012-12-27
Thanks chili555

---

### Post by wlj616 on 2013-03-28
I am trying to get the RTL8101E/RTL8102E wireless in my Toshiba Satellite 855c  with Ubuntu 12.10 working but so fat without success.

I did your download of r8101-1.022.00.tar.bz2 and followed the instructions you gave.  All seemed OK until I got to your instruction to:

sudo update-initramfs -u && cd ~/Downloads && tar xvf r8101-1.022.00.tar.bz2 && cd r8101-1.022.00 && sudo sh autorun.sh

which produced the output:

update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-3.5.0-26-generic
r8101-1.022.00/
r8101-1.022.00/src/
r8101-1.022.00/src/r8101.h
r8101-1.022.00/src/r8101_n.c
r8101-1.022.00/src/rtl_eeprom.c
r8101-1.022.00/src/rtltool.c
r8101-1.022.00/src/rtltool.h
r8101-1.022.00/src/rtl_eeprom.h
r8101-1.022.00/src/Makefile_linux24x
r8101-1.022.00/src/rtl_ethtool.h
r8101-1.022.00/src/Makefile
r8101-1.022.00/readme
r8101-1.022.00/autorun.sh
r8101-1.022.00/Makefile

Check old driver and unload it.
Build the module and install
make: *** /lib/modules/3.5.0-26-generic/build: No such file or directory. Stop.
make[1]: *** [clean] Error 2
make: *** [clean] Error 2
walter@walter-SATELLITE-C855-2F3:

Unless someone has got a better idea, I'm thinking I'll try one of those wireless dongles, though these seem for the most part to be a similar pain to get working.  If [**[COLOR=#000000]KomodoDave[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1201008")'s excellent solution cannot work in this case, is there one of these dongles that can be recommended?
 Many thanks.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-03-28
RTL8101E/RTL8102E is not a wireless device, it's ethernet. Would you please tell us what your wireless *really* is?```
lspci -nn | grep 0280
```

---

