---
title: "9.04 - Install Firefox 3.5 &quot;Shiretoko&quot;???? Problem"
date: 2009-09-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pstefanini on 2009-09-16
Web sites I use do not recognize Shiretoko; i.e. I am having the same problem as reported in the posted title that came up about a week ago. 

I am trying to edit the preferences as noted in one of the posts in response as this seems like a simple fix:

************************
Re: 9.04 - Install Firefox 3.5 ... Shiretoko? Problems with it 
Rather than install an addon to get shiretoko to identify as firefox you can do it manually so it stays as part of the browser.

In address bar type
Code:
about:config
Search for this line 
Quote:general.useragent.extra.firefox 

Change "Shiretoko" to firefox and remove the letters "pre"
*************************

However, typing about: config in the address or location bar gives and 'error' message. I tried a plug-in "Nightly Tester Tools" that I saw someone recommend but can't don't know how to modify that either as there were no instuctions given.

Any assistance is greatly appreciated!

Phils

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-09-16
Noticed after I responded to your last that it was in a thread marked solved...

Should be 

     ```
about:config
```

without the space.

And if you can stand to wait a month, the Firefox branding comes back with Karmic.  It works fine on my Karmic machine.

I would shy away from anyone who tries to give you instructions for how to back port it from the Karmic repositories to Jaunty at this late date.

If you knew how to do stuff like that, as many of us do, you wouldn't need someone to tell you how to risk borking your machine. 

I think lovinglinux has some instructions for getting it a little more safely.

---

### Post by pstefanini on 2009-09-17
Thank you QIII!!!!  I had to READ the message (telling me to be careful).  Beginner anxiety I guess!  Thank you for the patient and wise response.  It is greatly appreciated!!!  Phil

---

### Post by nortexoid on 2009-10-04
This is ridiculous (the fact that the user agent is set to Shiretoko rather than Firefox). It breaks compatibiltiy with tons of websites (including Facebook, Break.com, banks, comcast, etc.) See this bug report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.5/+bug/397211](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.5/+bug/397211).

Most people have recommended adding the user agent addon for firefox which is not ideal. The solution here is better.

---

