---
title: "9.10 black desktop background"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by downhiller2010 on 2009-11-04
I am running a live cd on a 23" monitor. Anytime I try to expand a window to fullsize it goes black. Since the desktop is always my full screen size it is always black. I can see the desktop tool bars but not the home button or install ubuntu button that you can normally see on the desktop. I have tried right click-properties and this did nothing.

---

### Post by synicalx on 2009-11-04
What sort of graphical chipset are you using? It could be that the resolution of a 23" (fairly high res) + 9.10's new shiny effects could be stressing out your graphics processor if it's just a built-in one. However if you have a standalone graphics card it could be something along the lines of a dodgy driver or lackthereof.

---

### Post by downhiller2010 on 2009-11-04
It's a Radeon 9200 SE

---

### Post by synicalx on 2009-11-04
Hmm, that should technically be up to the job but it seems there's been a few users having trouble with ATI's 9 series on Ubuntu and more specifically 9.10.

[This thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305349") seems to have a fix, reading posts 4 and 2. The poster has a similar GPU to yours and it seems to be the drivers causing all the fuss so your best bet would be to try that. If it doesn't fix your problem you can at least rule out the GPU as the problem ;)

---

### Post by downhiller2010 on 2009-11-05
I'll try that when I get a chance. Could it be anything to do with running off a live USB vs. a hard install?

---

### Post by sledge73 on 2009-11-05
If it's any consolation I have the same problems with a live cd on an nvidia chip set but when I installed to hard drive it worked perfectly

---

### Post by downhiller2010 on 2009-11-05
Seems that this is a wide spread bug
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/444139](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/444139)

---

