---
title: "10.10 and USB 3.0 ?"
date: 2011-03-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by darknomel on 2011-03-06
Hi all,

I recently got a Lenovo thinkpad W510 at work and I loaded Ubuntu 10.10 64 on it.

I'm having some strange issues with the USB 3.0 on it though. When I plug in my hard drive dock into the USB 3.0 ports, the drive works for a couple of minutes then fails and none of my USB ports work, not even the one USB 2.0 port I have on the notebook.

The strange thing is, when I plug the dock into my wifes laptop running windows 7, it works fine.. ?

Btw, the dock is USB 3.0..

Note: [COLOR=Red]When I plugged in the dock this morning and tried to do an **lsusb**[/COLOR], [COLOR=Red]my laptop froze completely, I had to hold the power button to get it switched off.

[COLOR=Black]Anyone got any advice for me?

I checked the thinkwiki and they don't really seem to have anything listed on w510 usb issues.
[/COLOR][/COLOR]

---

### Post by zenwalker on 2011-03-07
I guess its an faulty implementation or buggy driver in the kernel 10.10 using for USB 3.0. Please try with a latest kernel. Or you can get a USB 3.0 driver and compile it for the kernel you have.

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-03-07
Until you get that fixed, you shouldn't have to do a hard reboot. It's very hard on your hdd. Try this instead...

Right hand - hold down the Alt & Sys Rq buttons while your left hand slowly hits the following buttons one at a time with a slight pause between each letter. 

R-E-I-S-U-B

or you can do it in this order, as it's easier to remember.

R-aising
S-kinny
E-liphants
I-s
U-tterly
B-oring 

or, for kicks, [COLOR="Red"]R[/COLOR]e [COLOR="Red"]S[/COLOR]tart [COLOR="Red"]E[/COLOR]ven [COLOR="Red"]I[/COLOR]f [COLOR="Red"]U[/COLOR]ltimately [COLOR="Red"]B[/COLOR]roken

if your keyboard is like mine, you'll have to let off the Alt & Sys Rq keys before letting off the last letter (B).
And your system will reboot.

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2011-03-07
Just for kicks, what kernel are you running:

Open Terminal (Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal) and type in the following (pressing enter where it says <ENTER>):
```

uname -r <ENTER>

```

---

### Post by darknomel on 2011-03-07
> **slooksterpsv said:**
> Just for kicks, what kernel are you running:

Open Terminal (Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal) and type in the following (pressing enter where it says <ENTER>):
```

uname -r <ENTER>

```

```
2.6.35-27-generic
```

:)

---

### Post by darknomel on 2011-03-10
No-one?

I can't seem to find an easy way of updating to 2.6.38?

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2011-03-10
> **darknomel said:**
> No-one?

I can't seem to find an easy way of updating to 2.6.38?

Yeah there really isn't an easy way to update to 2.6.38. Umm... I can find you information on compiling 2.6.38, I've had it do weird things and just not work right some times (it's very time consuming cause it takes a few hours for your computer to compile it). Other than that, I'd wait till April when Natty Narwhal comes out, it's supposed to have 2.6.38 IIRC

---

### Post by Nerflander on 2011-03-10
> **Dutch70 said:**
> 

R-aising
S-kinny
E-liphants
I-s
U-tterly
B-oring 



epic :popcorn:

---

### Post by darknomel on 2011-03-14
Looks like I'll have to wait for Natty, no safe way to update it seems.

---

