---
title: "11.04 - I've changed my mind, but what's with Firefox?"
date: 2011-05-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-19
OK, I had problems with 11.04 to the point I wanted to put 10.04 back on in place of it.  Tonight, however, for some reason the additional drivers actually found something tonight - the fglrx driver for my built-in AMD/ATI graphics.  It downloaded, I activated it, rebooted, and bingo - a lot of things of cleared up.

I'm sure I'll have more questions, most if not all dumb like this one, but......where did the line for bookmarks, etc., go in Firefox?  I can't even find the line for "view" so I can't add what I want to see.

However, another good thing I found out that even holds true in my install of 10.10 on my laptop:  I don't know for how long, because I gave up on it a few years ago when it wouldn't run, but apparently there has been support for shockwave for a while now?  I went to try the Daily Jigsaw, which didn't work a few years ago, and bingo - it works!  Just another thing that unties me more from Windows!

---

### Post by jre6 on 2011-05-19
Is it Firefox 4? Right click the navigation bar and select bookmarks toolbar, menu bar etc.

---

### Post by Dondermans on 2011-05-19
Try moving your mouse all the way to the top of the screen. Try searching for 'Global Menu' if you'd like more information.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2011-05-19
I have just done a search on Global Menu and from the links I see that it has been around since late 2007 - early 2008. So, can people please stop blaming Unity for what looks like a Gnome2 project.

Regards.

---

### Post by hansdown on 2011-05-19
Hi wep940.

Here are some good tips for firefox 4, because it has changed a lot.

[http://www.techradar.com/news/software/applications/15-handy-firefox-4-tips-and-tricks-938852](http://www.techradar.com/news/software/applications/15-handy-firefox-4-tips-and-tricks-938852)

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-19
_**grahammechanica****l**_:  Not blaming Unity - thought it was a Firefox problem, but turned out to be my lack of knowledge about Firefox 4.  ;)

_**Dondermans**_:  Exactly what I was looking for - I didn't know things had changed with Firefox 4 - to be honest I still thought I was using Firefox 3!  So, I've got some more leaning to do.  Jeez, seems like I never get much of anywhere trying to learn stuff! ;)

_**hansdown**_:  Thanks for the link!  As per my reply above to Dondermans, I didn't even know I had gone from Firefox 3 to Firefox 4, and I sure never knew about the changes!  The link will help me learn more.

Thanks to everyone!

---

### Post by hansdown on 2011-05-19
This may also help, wep940.

[http://download.cnet.com/8301-2007_4-20047349-12.html](http://download.cnet.com/8301-2007_4-20047349-12.html)

---

