---
title: "Grub issue"
date: 2012-09-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cpt on 2012-09-13
Hi everyone,

I'm having some problems with setting up a dual boot.  The setup I have is as followed:

Windows 7 installed on one disk drive (sda)
Ubuntu 12.4 installed on my second disk drive (sdb)

If I boot off the second disk drive I get the grub menu which has the option to boot either ubuntu or windows.  If I select ubuntu it will boot without error, however if I select windows 7 from the menu the computer instantly restarts.  The only way to get windows to boot is to change the boot priority of the disks from within the bios.

Any ideas why this is happening?

Thanks

---

### Post by shreepads on 2012-09-13
Contents of /boot/grub/grub.cfg and sudo fdisk -l pls...

And

$ parted -l

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-09-13
You could try this

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair")

The "boot info" that is referred to in there runs, I believe, that which shreepads suggested, as well as a couple of other things, and prints it all out in a nice long output.

Make sure your computer is set to boot from the drive with Ubuntu on it before running that, of course.

---

### Post by cpt on 2012-09-13
Thanks I'll give this a try once i get home and let you know how i get on.

---

### Post by cpt on 2012-09-13
> **shreepads said:**
> Contents of /boot/grub/grub.cfg and sudo fdisk -l pls...

And

$ parted -l

Heres my grub.cfg file and fdisk -l

$ more /boot/grub/grub.cfg 
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  set have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ "${prev_saved_entry}" ]; then
  set saved_entry="${prev_saved_entry}"
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then
    saved_entry="${chosen}"
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n "${have_grubenv}" ]; then if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then save_env reco
rdfail; fi; fi
}

function load_video {
  insmod vbe
  insmod vga
  insmod video_bochs
  insmod video_cirrus
}

insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='(hd1,msdos5)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 8b4c6d65-d58c-425e-980d-bcb3b033a5ad
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=auto
  load_video
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod part_msdos
  insmod ext2
  set root='(hd1,msdos1)'
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 3de660f2-9132-44d7-b6c7-c6161f9b5bf5
  set locale_dir=($root)/grub/locale
  set lang=en_GB
  insmod gettext
fi
terminal_output gfxterm
if [ "${recordfail}" = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
if background_color 44,0,30; then
  clear
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
function gfxmode {
    set gfxpayload="${1}"
    if [ "${1}" = "keep" ]; then
        set vt_handoff=vt.handoff=7
    else
        set vt_handoff=
    fi
}
if [ "${recordfail}" != 1 ]; then
  if [ -e ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt ]; then
    if hwmatch ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt 3; then
      if [ ${match} = 0 ]; then
        set linux_gfx_mode=keep
      else
        set linux_gfx_mode=text
      fi
    else
      set linux_gfx_mode=text
    fi
  else
    set linux_gfx_mode=keep
  fi
else
  set linux_gfx_mode=text
fi
export linux_gfx_mode
if [ "${linux_gfx_mode}" != "text" ]; then load_video; fi
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 3.2.0-29-generic-pae' --class ubuntu --class gnu-l
inux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
    insmod gzio
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd1,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 3de660f2-9132-44d7-b6c7-c6161f9b
5bf5
    linux    /vmlinuz-3.2.0-29-generic-pae root=UUID=8b4c6d65-d58c-425e-980d-
bcb3b033a5ad ro   quiet splash $vt_handoff
    initrd    /initrd.img-3.2.0-29-generic-pae
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 3.2.0-29-generic-pae (recovery mode)' --class ubun
tu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod gzio
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd1,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 3de660f2-9132-44d7-b6c7-c6161f9b
5bf5
    echo    'Loading Linux 3.2.0-29-generic-pae ...'
    linux    /vmlinuz-3.2.0-29-generic-pae root=UUID=8b4c6d65-d58c-425e-980d-
bcb3b033a5ad ro recovery nomodeset 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /initrd.img-3.2.0-29-generic-pae
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###
### END /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd1,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 3de660f2-9132-44d7-b6c7-c6161f9b
5bf5
    linux16    /memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd1,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 3de660f2-9132-44d7-b6c7-c6161f9b
5bf5
    linux16    /memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sda1)" --class windows --class os {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ntfs
    set root='(hd0,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 50B4B46AB4B453E6
    chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###
if [ -f  $prefix/custom.cfg ]; then
  source $prefix/custom.cfg;
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###

------------------------------------------------
Disk /dev/sda: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders, total 976773168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xf730f730

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *        2048      206847      102400    7  HPFS/NTFS/exFAT
/dev/sda2          206848   976771071   488282112    7  HPFS/NTFS/exFAT

Disk /dev/sdb: 160.0 GB, 160040803840 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders, total 312579695 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xc268c268

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *        2048      976895      487424   83  Linux
/dev/sdb2          978942   312578047   155799553    5  Extended
/dev/sdb5          978944    49805311    24413184   83  Linux
/dev/sdb6        49807360    57618431     3905536   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sdb7        57620480   312578047   127478784   83  Linux
--------------------------

---

### Post by BrianBlaze on 2012-09-13
try from inside ubuntu:
```

update-grub

```

and restart :)

---

### Post by shreepads on 2012-09-14
Hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

Methinks something wrong here:

```
menuentry "Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sda1)" --class windows --class os {
insmod part_msdos
insmod ntfs
**set root='(hd0,msdos1)'**
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 50B4B46AB4B453E6
chainloader +1
```

Can you post parted -l as well? Or instead the Boot-Repair report as mentioned above.

I THINK that if you are booting off /dev/sdb (which is where I imagine grub is installed) then that would be hd0.

And Win 7 (on /dev/sda) would be hd1.

Which begs the question, how on earth do the Linux images get booted up with "set root='(hd1,msdos1)'". Answer, probably because the very next search command sets root based on UUIDs which is pretty infallible.

The same applies for the Win 7 one as well, so the search command immediately below the set command sets root to the correct partition.

Next the chainloader kicks off the Win 7 boot, but Win 7 hates being second (not kidding) and as it's not on hd0 (but on hd1) it fails to boot.

Fix would be to insert the following command in /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober above the "set root='(hd0,msdos1)'" command

```
drivemap -s (hd0) (hd1)
```

And then do 
```
$ sudo update-grub
```

Or you could just use Boot-Repair!

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-09-15
> **shreepads said:**
> I THINK that if you are booting off /dev/sdb (which is where I imagine grub is installed) then that would be hd0.

And Win 7 (on /dev/sda) would be hd1.

It is a bit too late at night for me to really make sense of this, but I don't think that is right. As far as I know, whereas Linux (or is it gparted?) uses sda, sdb and so one, grub uses hd0, hd1 and so on. That is to say hd0 = sda, hd1 = sdb, and so on.

@ cpt : could you perhaps do the boot info thing from the boot repair link above? The output supplies info about the relationship between partitions and UUIDs which I think might be helpful in seeing what is going on with your machine.

---

### Post by cpt on 2012-09-16
Sorry for the late reply!  And thanks to everyone who have replied so far much appreciated !

@Brianblaze I've run update-grub but unfortunately I still cant boot windows from the grub menu. 

@shreepads I couldnt find "set root='(hd0,msdos1)'" within my  /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober

@audomic  heres my parted -l info

# parted -l
Model: ATA Hitachi HDP72505 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 500GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos

Number  Start   End    Size   Type     File system  Flags
 1      1049kB  106MB  105MB  primary  ntfs         boot
 2      106MB   500GB  500GB  primary  ntfs


Model: ATA ST3160827AS (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdb: 160GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos

Number  Start   End     Size    Type      File system     Flags
 1      1049kB  500MB   499MB   primary   ext4            boot
 2      501MB   160GB   160GB   extended
 5      501MB   25.5GB  25.0GB  logical   ext4
 6      25.5GB  29.5GB  3999MB  logical   linux-swap(v1)
 7      29.5GB  160GB   131GB   logical   ext4




And heres my pastebin URL from boot-reapair

[http://paste.ubuntu.com/1209599/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/1209599/)


@shreepads I couldnt find "set root='(hd0,msdos1)'" within my  /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober

Also I've tried running the automatic repair from the boot-repair but it has not helped :(  its just added another entry within my grub menu :(

---

### Post by YannBuntu on 2012-09-16
Hello

The problem seems to be due to the Windows entry located in grub.cfg , this may be linked to the fact that systems are on 2 disks.

Please:
**1)** run Boot-Repair. When you are asked if sdb is removable, answer "Yes", then click the "Recommended repair" button.
**2)** indicate the **new URL** that will appear
**3)** Reboot the PC, setup your BIOS to boot the Windows disk, this should boot Windows.
**4)** Reboot the PC, setup your BIOS to boot the Ubuntu disk, this should display the GRUB menu. Please tell us if the Ubuntu and Windows entries work or not. (the Ubuntu entry should work, but probably not the Windows entry)

---

### Post by cpt on 2012-09-16
> **YannBuntu said:**
> Hello

The problem seems to be due to the Windows entry located in grub.cfg , this may be linked to the fact that systems are on 2 disks.

Please:
**1)** run Boot-Repair. When you are asked if sdb is removable, answer "Yes", then click the "Recommended repair" button.
**2)** indicate the **new URL** that will appear
**3)** Reboot the PC, setup your BIOS to boot the Windows disk, this should boot Windows.
**4)** Reboot the PC, setup your BIOS to boot the Ubuntu disk, this should display the GRUB menu. Please tell us if the Ubuntu and Windows entries work or not. (the Ubuntu entry should work, but probably not the Windows entry)

Hi Yannbuntu

I've run the Boot-Repair and did as you described.  Heres is my new URL    	 	 	 	 	 	   [http://paste.ubuntu.com/1209715/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/1209715/)


As you detailed in your post I'm able to boot windows from my windows disk and I can boot ubuntu from my ubuntu disk but not windows :confused:

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-09-16
Ubuntu shows two entries. Have you tried both?

Windows is directly booting from sda2 as that has boot flag. You do have the normal 100MB Windows hidden boot/repair partition, but it looks like it is not used. But grub2's os-prober still finds sda1 as bootable.

---

### Post by YannBuntu on 2012-09-16
> **oldfred said:**
> (the GRUB menu) shows two entries. Have you tried both?

+1

(@oldfred: originally the boot flag was on sda1, and there was no /bootmgr /Boot/BCD in sda2. B-R has duplicated /bootmgr /Boot/BCD into sda2 and moved the bootflag to sda2. This allows to boot via sda2 even when the PBR of sda1 is broken. In the current situation, both sda1 and sda2 ways work when booted via sda's MBR. I suppose that both Windows entries in GRUB will fail, but I prefer to see if cpt confirms this point first.)

---

### Post by shreepads on 2012-09-17
> **audiomick said:**
> It is a bit too late at night for me to really make sense of this, but I don't think that is right. As far as I know, whereas Linux (or is it gparted?) uses sda, sdb and so one, grub uses hd0, hd1 and so on. That is to say hd0 = sda, hd1 = sdb, and so on.

@ cpt : could you perhaps do the boot info thing from the boot repair link above? The output supplies info about the relationship between partitions and UUIDs which I think might be helpful in seeing what is going on with your machine.

AFAIK:
- /dev/sda, /dev/sdb are assigned based on the physical SATA/ IDE port on the mobo to which a given drive is connected
- While hd0, hd1 in Grub are assigned based on the boot order, so the drive you boot from is hd0, in this particular case when he boots from the Linux drive /dev/sdb that becomes hd0, so Windows is on hd1 (although this behaviour may be mobo specific)

Anyway there is a simple way to figure this out, **cpt **could you please boot from the Linux drive and trigger Grub command line when it presents you with the grub menu (via F2 I think).

And then on the grub command line execute:

```
grub> ls (hd0,msdos1)
```

If this lists the Linux files then what I'm saying would be correct...

Hit ESC to go back to the grub menu...

---

