---
title: "10.04 AMD-64 Boot Time - 10 minutes"
date: 2010-08-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ChinaSailor on 2010-08-08
My question is very simple, I have a AMD64 (Gigabyte board, 8 gigs ram) and have Ubuntu X64 bit installed,
it was running fine, until about 3 or 4 weeks ago, something in one of the updates, now my boot time, went from 20 or 30 seconds to 10 minutes.  

It's almost like my system is in "Permanent" Forced File-System Checks every boot, I've since turned up the Forced filesystem checks "sudo tune2fs -c 500 /dev/sda1" to every 500th boot, but it appears that it is still doing a forced check every single boot, and the only thing that makes me think that, is that when-ever my system would do a forced file-system check, my RAM would be loaded up with program cache, when it finally booted. Normally when I typed "Free" I would see 6.5 gigs free, but after a forced system file check, it would say, 6 gigs were in use as program cache.

Worked fine until an update about 3 or 4 weeks ago... Now 10 minutes of black screen, every single boot.

Thanks!

---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-08-08
> **ChinaSailor said:**
> My question is very simple, I have a AMD64 (Gigabyte board, 8 gigs ram) and have Ubuntu X64 bit installed,
it was running fine, until about 3 or 4 weeks ago, something in one of the updates, now my boot time, went from 20 or 30 seconds to 10 minutes.  

It's almost like my system is in "Permanent" Forced File-System Checks every boot, I've since turned up the Forced filesystem checks "sudo tune2fs -c 500 /dev/sda1" to every 500th boot, but it appears that it is still doing a forced check every single boot, and the only thing that makes me think that, is that when-ever my system would do a forced file-system check, my RAM would be loaded up with program cache, when it finally booted. Normally when I typed "Free" I would see 6.5 gigs free, but after a forced system file check, it would say, 6 gigs were in use as program cache.

Worked fine until an update about 3 or 4 weeks ago... Now 10 minutes of black screen, every single boot.

Thanks!have you actually checked your disks manually?
try running
```

sudo e2fsck -f -v -y -c /dev/sda1
```from a livecd.
Occasionally, this is what happens when your HD is damaged.

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2010-08-09
I believe hitting the escape key during boot will stop the spalsh screen coming up and you will be able to see the textual boot - this will give you an idea where the machine is slow. Failing that hold the shift key during Bios boot and you should get to the boot menu. Edit the parameters to remove Quiet and splash (this is from menory) this will 'temporarily' allow you to see the text boot.

---

### Post by PGScooter on 2010-08-09
check out bootchart:
```
sudo apt-get install bootchart
```
and then post the chart here to look at.

---

