---
title: "8.10 and nvidia drivers - on my fourth reinstall!"
date: 2009-01-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by linuxNC on 2009-01-18
Have a new motherboard coming in so I thought I'd see what the state of Linux and Ubuntu is these days on my current rig: Biostar TForce 570SLI mobo, AMD Athlon X4000 oc'd to 2.6GHz, 2 Gig of Crucial Ballistix RAM, 2 nvidia GT8800's in SLI config, and a 250 Gig HDD in SATA II mode.

Burned the 8.10 64bit ISO image to a DVD and installed with a complete HDD wipe and install. No problems - nice a smooth and then did the 219 updates via the package manager - no problems. Looks very nice - snappy with good responsiveness and a nice desktop layout and nice user interface. I like. Received the notification that proprietary nvidia drivers are available so I selected the recommended 177's and everything installed nicely. Did a reboot, and all the problems begin.......

Restarts OK, starts loading Ubuntu with the splash screen up and the loading bar progressing as usual, then the screen goes black with the blinking underscore cursor in the top left hand corner as usual but it stays there a few seconds later and instead of getting the X in the middle of the screen I get a number of lines of text including the last three which all begin with "Kinit:". First one is kinit: name_to_dev_t(..... the second one is kinit: trying to resume from ........  and the third one is kinit: No resume image, doing normal boot and then I'm left with the login prompt.

So doing a bunch of searches in these forums yields NO success. I try editing /etc/X11/xorg.conf --> the driver there is "nvidia" which should be correct but I try "nv" and "vesa" but nogo. Reinstall and all is good and try it again, but same results. Reinstall and try the 180 drivers - same results and no amount of noob CLI editing helps. I try installing envyng while in the black screen CLI mode (is this called tty1 mode?) - nogo. 

So before I punt Linux again for another 2 years - any help/suggestions would be appreciated. Frustrated to say the least.

Thanks!

---

### Post by ihatecellphones0516 on 2009-01-18
I've had similar problems.  The nvidia drivers were working this summer and then some time in the fall I installed updates and everything went bad.  I've done the reinstall once or twice, but every time the drivers mess things up.  I keep checking here every couple of week, but the problem doesn't seem common enough or consistent enough to fix.

---

### Post by Kossilar on 2009-01-19
I've been having some mad trouble getting this blasted driver to install.

I JUST got it. Try this:

First grab the latest NVIDIA driver for your card from the NVIDIA website.

You said you're using 64 bit, so I think you need this one:

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_amd64_180.22.html]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_amd64_180.22.html")

Then hit ctrl+alt+f1 or open a terminal if your prefer and try the following commands:

```

sudo apt-get remove nvidia*

```

To clear out any old NVIDIA drivers left on your system. Then make sure you have the build-essential package installed so the driver can compile what it needs to: 

```

sudo apt-get install build-essential

```

Then hit ctrl+alt+F1 to get to a command line(this won't work properly in X since you have to close it down.) If you don't have access to another computer to check out this page while you do this you might want to print this out or something so you can keep refering to it.

```

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

```

Then once the X server has been properly shut down, change directory to the folder where you downloaded the NVIDIA driver(mine was downloaded to the desktop, just go to wherever you downloaded the file): 

```

cd ~/Desktop

```

Then do this:

```

sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-180.22-pkg2.run

```

or 

```

sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-180.22.pkg1.run

```

for the regular 32 bit drivers. Follow the on screen instructions until everything is installed.

After that do:

```

sudo reboot

``` 

I think that's how I did it. Hopefully that'll work for you. The thing to remember is that firstly, the driver won't install without build-essential or if ANY other Nvidia driver from the repos is still installed.

Good luck and godspeed.

---

### Post by Lakelander on 2009-01-19
No help for me, still same problem. And now I have to install Ubuntu again (no big deal).

Maybe things are more complicated in my system because of SLI with dual gpu cards.

---

### Post by linuxNC on 2009-01-19
SOLVED!!  Man, took me until 12:15 this morning before I figured this out. May I say God bless all the hard work and posting all you Linux folks have done to date!

I'll start with the discovery of the core issue and cause of the updating of nvidia drivers resulting in no ubuntu 8.10 load and dropping to tty1 command line login/black screen:  dual graphic cards seen by the OS and new drivers and X11 can't deal with that gracefully yet.....

I found a note on nvidia's site that mentioned a log file is created by X11 as it executes the xorg.conf file and is located at /var/log. This was the key as I went thru the lines and found the "EE" marking indicating an error (also look for "WW" marking for warnings) was encountered in that no Primary Device (graphics card) was identified, and thus no monitor was found and thus X11/xorg.conf causes an error condition and you wind up with the black screen and the login prompt.

In order to fix this situation it appears it has to be done manually by modifying the xorg.conf file (note - the nvidia-xconfig utility should have been executed to properly set up the file for the new nvidia proprietary drivers). First step is to find out what PCI bus your computer system us using for the graphics cards: in a terminal window run the command "lspci grep | VGA" (I think that's the correct cmd format - I'm doing this from memory from work)  My results showed a graphics card on PCI 2 and PCI 7.  You then need to sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf to edit your xorg.conf file. Scroll down to the Device section and you should see something like:
Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

You need to explicitly add a line to identify the PCI bus Device0 is using. My primary graphics card where the monitor was connected to happened to be on PCI 7, (I tried 2 at first which of course failed) so I ended up with my Section Device looking like this:
Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    BusID          "PCI:7:0:0"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Explicitly telling xorg.conf that the primary graphics Device is on PCI:7 did the trick. Woot!   Note that even if you aren't trying to run a SLI config but if you have two graphics cards or say one PCI card and another onboard (and not deactivated by the BIOS) chipset based graphics card, this same problem may occur and you would need to follow the same steps to correct. 

Hey, as long as I'm on this trying to get multiple nvidia graphics cards to work in SLI with Linux, I found this additional info on nvidia's site:  There are two more Options that need to be added to xorg.conf in order to get SLI to work. You can use the nvidia-xconfig utility to set these for you by going into a terminal session and typing:
sudo nvidia-xconfig --multigpu=on
sudo nvidia-xconfig --sli=on

Hope this helps somebody else!!
Cheers

---

### Post by Discombobulated on 2009-02-20
> **linuxNC said:**
> You need to explicitly add a line to identify the PCI bus Device0 is using. My primary graphics card where the monitor was connected to happened to be on PCI 7, (I tried 2 at first which of course failed) so I ended up with my Section Device looking like this:
Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    BusID          "PCI:7:0:0"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection



Thank you!  That 'BusID' line is the missing piece of the puzzle that had me foxed for a while.

I have on board nvidia and PCIex nvidia card - this one was doing my head in.

To get the PCI bus ID of the adapter I want to use from the tty1 screen, I typed:

 ```
more /var/log/Xorg.0.log
```

...Then keep hitting return and looking for entries marked 'EE'

The other string that might help others find this solution:

"More than one primary graphics adapter present" (or somesuch - typing from memory).

I'm off to do a reinstall anyhow, I'll post back to confirm it's a fix.

---

### Post by Discombobulated on 2009-02-20
BTW... that should be "lspci | grep VGA" (as opposed to "lspci grep | VGA") or just lspci to list all devices on PCI bus. ;)

---

### Post by stim on 2009-02-20
Have you tried envy-ng?  I use that for my 8800gtx and it has worked flawlessly from day one.  

It's available in the package manager, installs in seconds and is completely automatic.

---

### Post by Discombobulated on 2009-02-20
I never did install envy-ng, stim.  Does it facilitate installing the latest(ish) driver? (nvidia 180.11 -which fixed the 'firefox ugly startup' bug for me).

Also, do you have both onboard nvidia graphics (which you can't completely disable in BIOS) and a separate nvidia graphics card installed (which was the root of my problem)?

Thanks again, LinuxNC - your fix worked perfectly. :D

I still needed the terse error (EE) message gleaned from

```
more /var/log/Xorg.0.log
```

..to remind me to plug the power cables in on my 7900...  doh!

---

