---
title: "12.04 boots without showing boot options"
date: 2012-07-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by phubert28 on 2012-07-13
I installed 12.04 on a 2nd hard drive of a friend's system. His other drive has Windows 7. 

There are several issues.

1) it's apparently a silent boot, I don't even see the POST information
2) NO list of image options is displayed, though the Grub graphical interface shows a long list of them, including the Windows 7 image.
3) boot is VERY slow compared to his previous Ubuntu 10.10 install.

The PC is a 1 year old HP desktop, I'm afraid I don't have the model.

Since he's had poor success with Skype in Ubuntu, he wants still to be able to boot into Windows 7 at times.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2012-07-13
Grub probably didn't detect the Windows installation initially. If it thinks it's the only OS on the computer it won't show the menu. You may be able to display it by holding down SHIFT during the early stages of the boot process.

From a running Ubuntu OS, run the following command so GRUB reinspects the drives for other operating systems. If it finds Windows, you will see it in the terminal output as the command runs.
```
sudo update-grub
```

If it still doesn't find Windows, install Boot Repair and try the 'Recommended repair'. The link to BR is in my signature line.

---

### Post by phubert28 on 2012-07-13
Thanks. THAT was fast!!! 

I don't know if I'll be able to get to his machine again - he's moving out of state, so I'll be doing remote support (he's 86).  However I have been training my friend to do more on his own! My sister is next!

---

### Post by drs305 on 2012-07-13
> **phubert28 said:**
> Thanks. THAT was fast!!! 

I don't know if I'll be able to get to his machine again - he's moving out of state, so I'll be doing remote support (he's 86).  However I have been training my friend to do more on his own! My sister is next!

Hope your confidence is borne out!  ;-)

If it's not, you can remove the SOLVED tag via the same link you used to mark it so.

Happy Ubuntu-ing.

---

