---
title: "~/.themes versus /usr/share/themes"
date: 2012-08-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-08-20
I was playing with the Greybird theme for a while. I installed it in ~/.themes. Previously, whatever tinkering I did with themes was directly in /usr/share/themes/theme_name/.

The advantage of using ~/.themes, for a single user set-up, is that **sudo** isn't needed. The downside is that apps that load at start-up don't seem to behave as expected. In my case, these were the System Load Indicator and the Network Manager applet. [Synaptic]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11795453&postcount=6") is another example. **gksudo gedit** also looked ugly.

So it's back to tweaking in /usr/share/themes/theme_name/ as fas as I'm concerned.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2012-08-20
> **vasa1 said:**
> I was playing with the Greybird theme for a while. I installed it in ~/.themes. Previously, whatever tinkering I did with themes was directly in /usr/share/themes/theme_name/.

The advantage of using ~/.themes, for a single user set-up, is that **sudo** isn't needed. The downside is that apps that load at start-up don't seem to behave as expected. In my case, these were the System Load Indicator and the Network Manager applet. [Synaptic]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11795453&postcount=6") is another example. **gksudo gedit** also looked ugly.

So it's back to tweaking in /usr/share/themes/theme_name/ as fas as I'm concerned.

It's not a question if the app is loaded at startup or not, but insead which user the app is running as. If you install the theme into your own home directory, only your own user account has access to it. And therefore programs like Synaptic, which runs as root user, are not able to use the theme. Same of course goes for any other app you launch as root or some other user.

There's a simple and easy fix, though, just create a symbolic links from your user's theme directories into root's ones:
```

sudo ln -s ~/.themes /root/.themes
sudo ln -s ~/.icons /root/.icons
```

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-08-21
> **mcduck said:**
> ...
There's a simple and easy fix, though, just create a symbolic links from your user's theme directories into root's ones:
```

sudo ln -s ~/.themes /root/.themes
sudo ln -s ~/.icons /root/.icons
```

I'm sorry I didn't see your post until just now. I ran both the commands (even though I don't have a ~/.icons folder) but my problem is **solved** and I'm marking it solved. Thank you :)

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2012-08-21
The user directory themes folder is a great option for non-admin, standard users to add themes without having to have an admin manipulate system folders.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-08-22
I had done
```
sudo ln -s /home/<username>/.gtkrc-2.0 /root/.gtkrc-2.0
``` a while ago as well.

---

