---
title: "8.04 upgrade problem"
date: 2008-04-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ssdurn on 2008-04-24
Hi there

Trying to upgrade to 8.04 from 7.10 and getting this message at the "setting new software channels" part:
===
Could not calculate the upgrade

A unresolvable problem occurred while calculating the upgrade.

 This can be caused by:
 * Upgrading to a pre-release version of Ubuntu
 * Running the current pre-release version of Ubuntu
 * Unofficial software packages not provided by Ubuntu

If none of this applies, then please report this bug against the 'update-manager' package and include the files in /var/log/dist-upgrade/ in the bugreport.
===

I've un-installed all applications I installed but am still having issues.

Any suggestions on what could be the matter? 

Otherwise how can I remove 7.10 completely and run a clean install of 8.04? (whilst making sure my Windows partitions stay intact).

---

### Post by 1440 on 2008-04-24
> **ssdurn said:**
> 
Otherwise how can I remove 7.10 completely and run a clean install of 8.04? (whilst making sure my Windows partitions stay intact).
Boot the live cd and start the installer. When you get to the partitioning stage, make sure you select 'manual' and remove your existing linux partitions (triple-check to make sure you delete the right ones!) and create the partitions for your new install. That should work. But backup your data just to be sure :)

---

### Post by ptcbus on 2008-04-24
I am not very sure: it could have been due to millions of people trying to download from ubuntu? 
If that is the case you could try torrents. I have listed the steps I followed to upgrade here: [http://ptcbus.blogspot.com/2008/04/upgrading-from-ubuntu-710-gutsy-gibbon.html]("http://ptcbus.blogspot.com/2008/04/upgrading-from-ubuntu-710-gutsy-gibbon.html")

---

