---
title: "[SOLVED] Hardy Nvidia Resolution problem: A new approach"
date: 2008-05-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Nebelhom on 2008-05-07
Hi,

I posted a thread a while ago about configuring my Nvidia GeForce 7600GS and ended up not being able to.
([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=776389](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=776389))

I wanted to fall back to gutsy which I assumed would be more idiotproof but this wouldn't even allow me to install (the ominous black screen problem).

So I installed hardy again to have a fresh start and with a bit more knowledge about the subject.

The system is this:

Intel Core2 CPU
6420 @ 2.13GHz
2.00 GB RAM

Onboard Sound
GeForce 7600 GS

Monitor: V7 E17PS

So far, I installed hardy amd64 (needed noapic nolapic pci=noacpi acpi=off to get no black screen; dont know if that is important).

nicely enough the splash screen is already in the resolution I want. on load up, however, I got a black screen which I resolved by downloading envyng via tty1 and install the current drivers.
this gave hardy in 640x480 and no sound (splash screen was I think 1024x768 ) and install updates via terminal. hardy automatically installed the restricted drivers and I followed the launchpad test and all seemed fine.

Now, I restart to let the system assemble all drivers and I get the following in what looks like a tty1:

```
kinit: name_to_dev_t(/dev/disk/by-uuid/<a long number that looks like a CD key or an md5sum>) = sda7(8,7)
kinit: trying to resume from <same path as above>
kinit: No resume image, doing normal boot
```

Then the error message that my graphics configuration cannot be implemented (with all its configuring and so on). I just tend to press continue so it gets me into the graphics safe mode (800x600)

below is my xorg.conf. I only added the monitor refresh rates and the resolution modes (something I was told could make a difference) everything else is unchanged as written by ubuntu.

in comparison to the last installation when I was a bit more of a greenhorn than now, I find this very encouraging that at least the splash screen is in the right resolution now ;). oh yea and I still have no sound with ubuntu telling me that the volume control could not find any elements.

Can anyone of you make sense of this? If so, feedback is much appreciated. thanks already guys.

Nebelhom

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Modes 		"1024x768" "1280x1024"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
    	HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    	VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    	Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by Nebelhom on 2008-05-08
Anyone? Noone? :(

---

### Post by skymera on 2008-05-08
How did you install the Nvidia drivers?

---

### Post by Nebelhom on 2008-05-08
I did the following:

after installation I got a blackscreen (monitor says "out of range"), so I 'alt+ctrl+f1'ed myself away from GUI followed by:

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-gtk
sudo envyng -t
```

following the procedure outlined by envyng I first deinstalled all nvidia drivers and then reinstall via envyng. On reboot the stuff below happened. such as telling me about the restricted drivers note by the launchpad application in hardy etc.
and then everytime I reboot, it first fails to implement my settings and then goes to graphics safe mode (800x600).

the updates I got again via the terminal

```
sudo apt-get update
```

then I think it is something called the updates manager (makes sense if it was called that) installed the packages for me.

does that help?

Thanks

---

### Post by Nebelhom on 2008-05-08
... Sorry still hoping to find someone who knows the answer to my problems :-\"

---

### Post by Nxion on 2008-05-08
Have you looked in System > Administration > Hardware Drivers ?

Does it show up there?

---

### Post by Nxion on 2008-05-08
```
kinit: name_to_dev_t(/dev/disk/by-uuid/<a long number that looks like a CD key or an md5sum>) = sda7(8,7)
kinit: trying to resume from <same path as above>
kinit: No resume image, doing normal boot
```

This is normal, I get this on my laptop all the time on bootup.

---

### Post by Roque2 on 2008-05-08
I have the nvidia 8400gs and I get the blackscreen at bootup, then mine hangs. I have no idea since I am still a greenhorn at linux. I used the restricted driver app in heron and still get it.

---

### Post by Nxion on 2008-05-08
> **Roque2 said:**
> I have the nvidia 8400gs and I get the blackscreen at bootup, then mine hangs. I have no idea since I am still a greenhorn at linux. I used the restricted driver app in heron and still get it.

So it never gives you the login screen?

---

### Post by Nebelhom on 2008-05-08
@ Nxion: hmmm... when I try to open the hardware drivers I get this error message


"Sorry, the application "jockey -gtk" closed unexpectedly...

sorry that I always seem to give error messages in return for each suggestion :(

what do you guys think. should I remove drivers again via envyng and then reinstall and see what happens or is the chance low of anything happening that way?

---

### Post by Nebelhom on 2008-05-09
Ok, thanks for all your help guys. It helped me understand the materia much better!

I solved my problem now! the problem was my monitor as I thought.

I installed the drivers in BASH via

```
envyng -t
```

then went into the nvidia xserver settings

```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

there I went to X server display configuration -> Advanced
This is to allow change of resolution manually (I dont think this was necessary, but I did it anyways)
then into "save X configuration file"

in there, I had to look for my refresh rates and change them according to what my monitor can do. in my case it was:

```
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-1"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
EndSection
```

after load up I get an additional big nvidia sign before load up and then I can change my resolution. DING DONG! :guitar:

Thanks again for all your help. It may not have solved the problem, but it gave me an idea of what I can do :)

Nebelhom

---

### Post by maramot on 2008-05-09
When you updated, what happened when the setup asked you about changing your menu.lst file? I'm asking because there's a chance that you're still loading the older gutsy kernel instead of the correct hardy kernel. I had the exact same problem as you, only with a different geforce model, and it turned out that I had left the menu.lst unchanged, for the sake of being able to boot to XP to play games, and that was what was causing all the problems. Take a look here--  [http://ubuntu-utah.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4922126&postcount=19](http://ubuntu-utah.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4922126&postcount=19)

Make sure you have nvidia-settings installed, also jockey-gdm and nvidia-glx-new Type "nvidia" in the synaptic package manager search function and see what you have installed. I've tried to explain it good in that post, if you need any help, do ask. :) In my experience, tinkering with the xorg.conf did nothing, since that file was overwritten practically each time I restarted and ubuntu loaded in "low-graphics mode"

---

### Post by Nebelhom on 2008-05-09
Thanks for the warning.

I double checked and everything appears to be fine.

right kernel. hardware driver works and the packages are correct as well ;)

shweet :)

---

### Post by maramot on 2008-05-10
If the kernel is ok, maybe envy did something it shouldn't have done. I have no experience with envy, because first - when I had using it as an option I still didn't know very well how to install programs :) and second - I thought that using 3rd party programs will only add uneeded variables to the whole equasion :) Eventually I've always solved my graphics problems withouth the help of envy.

Something I noticed is that you say you have Intel Core 2 CPU and you have installed hardy amd64. Why is that? In the previous thread "Newbie totally clueless" you say > Because apparently an Intel Dual core is a 64-bit processor.

I double checked this a couple of times with folk because I wasnt sure myself, but people mostly agree on this.

the amd64 is misleading and means all 64 bit processors. at least this is the gist I got. in the end. If you're sure about that, then I can suggest you try this:

1. Remove envy through synaptic manager. I'm just suspicious of it and I know things can work without it.

2. Install these packages, again through synaptic. These are the ones I have and my resolution problems are solved with them: nvidia-glx-new, nvidia-kernel-common, nvidia-kernel-source, nvidia-settings, xserver-xorg-video-nv

3. Having these things and the right kernel loaded, I was able to access nvidia-settings and change my resolution  quite normally. Only one thing - in order for nvidia settings to be able to save what resolution you've picked to the xorg.conf file, it has to have the permissions to write to this file. So you should launch it from the terminal with "sudo nvidia-settings" and not through clicking System->Administration->Nvidia X Server Settings

The thing that keeps me concerned is that there may be problems with the packages I've listed *in their amd64 versions*. I don't know if that is so, because I'm using the 32 bit version for intel processors. And I can tell you it runs wonderful. My processor is also Intel Core 2 Duo - the T8300 model at 2.4GHz and also supports 64 bit apps if I'm interpreting this right -- [http://www.intel.com/products/processor_number/chart/core2duo.htm](http://www.intel.com/products/processor_number/chart/core2duo.htm)

I can't guarantee my method will work for you, just offering an alternative :)

---

### Post by Nebelhom on 2008-05-10
Thanks mate, I misunderstood you. I already managed this little problem of mine. the graphics card works fine now (thank god).

it was my monitor that caused the problems. at the moment I am trying to figure out why the kernel does not acknowledge my onboard sound card (see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=788495](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=788495) )

if you can give me hints for that as well, that would be class. cheers man, you're a :KS

---

