---
title: "Newbie help with dial-up connection please."
date: 2010-03-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Bulwark on 2010-03-29
Ubuntu Linux 9.10.

I want to setup an Internet dial-up connection using Gnome-ppp so have installed the required files and everything seems to have gone well until the actual connection is attempted.   The pci modem can be heard dialling but the connection fails and the log file contains:

> --> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATX3
ATX3
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT086203735     (Correct dial-up number is shown..)
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L3DT086203735
CONNECT 460800
--> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
** Lucent APX Terminal Server **
Login:
--> Looks like a login prompt.
--> Sending: user_name             (Correct user_name is shown..)
user_name
Password:
--> Looks like a password prompt.
--> Sending: (password)
Entering PPP Session.
IP address is 120.624.0.549        (Correct ip is shown..)
MTU is 1524.

--> Looks like a welcome message.
--> Unable to run /usr/sbin/pppd.
--> Check permissions, or specify a "PPPD Path" option in wvdial.conf.

(The above three lines are repeated many times then change to..)

--> Don't know what to do!  Starting pppd and hoping for the best.
--> Unable to run /usr/sbin/pppd.
--> Check permissions, or specify a "PPPD Path" option in wvdial.conf.

(which repeat many more times. Then..)

--> Connected, but carrier signal lost!  Retrying...
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT086203735
--> Waiting for carrier.
NO CARRIER
--> No Carrier!  Trying again.
--> Maximum Attempts Exceeded..Aborting!!
--> Disconnecting at Mon Mar 29 15:20:02 2010Some of the content above has been changed for privacy reasons.

The content of /esc/wvdial.conf is:

> [Dialer Defaults]
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
Modem Type = Analog Modem
Baud = 460800
New PPPD = yes
Modem = /dev/modem
ISDN = 0
; Phone = <Target Phone Number>
; Password = <Your Password>
; Username = <Your Login Name>Will someone please explain what is meant by PPPD Path and how to enter it in Wvdial.conf.

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2010-03-29
I have never used dial up with Ubuntu but I did a quick Google search and found this site [https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-ppp/+question/56076](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-ppp/+question/56076).  It may help.  I just noticed that you are using 9.10 and that site is for 8.10.

---

### Post by achase79 on 2010-03-29
for a while the only way I have been able to dial out is using ```
gksu gnome-ppp
```

you are having a permission issue, running as superuser allows you to connect.

---

### Post by lyall on 2010-03-29
DialupModemHowto in the Community Documentation
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto")

it is a place to start

good luck and have fun learning

---

### Post by bpalone on 2010-03-29
> **achase79 said:**
> for a while the only way I have been able to dial out is using ```
gksu gnome-ppp
```

you are having a permission issue, running as superuser allows you to connect.

I am guessing, as I have not set up dialup in Linux or Windows for that matter for a few years.  I know that some places that is all you have.

But, it does sound like a permissions issue.  So, you might check that are listed as a user to ppp.  That is assuming there is a permitted list for that service.  Look under Admin and User Groups for a check.

Remember, I am guessing.  Good luck.

---

### Post by Bulwark on 2010-03-29
Amazing, I'd hardly posted the problem before the solutions arrived.  Am right now posting from a dial-up connection.  

Thank you guys.

---

