---
title: "12.10 rhythmbox vorbis encoder problem"
date: 2012-10-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dsos30 on 2012-10-28
Hi everyone I'm using 12.10 and I have a problem with rhythmbox it is asking for vorbis encoder?? Can anyone help please confused dsos30:confused:

---

### Post by sports supplement on 2012-11-04
I had the same problem and tried installing everything with Vorbis in it's name.  It seems this package is needed to convert files to the Vorbis format for ripping CD's.  

I worked around this by going to Edit>Preferences and clicking on the Music tab.  The Preferred Format is set to Ogg Vorbis and below is a button "Install additional software required to use this format".  I clicked the down arrow next to this option and selected MPEG 4 Audio and it worked perfectly.  FLAC is also an option which would have been better being Free Lossless Audio Codec.  

Sourceforge states "FLAC stands out as the fastest and most widely supported lossless audio codec, and the only one that at once is non-proprietary, is unencumbered by patents, has an open-source reference implementation, has a well documented format and API, and has several other independent implementations."

I hope this assists you.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-11-05
> **dsos30 said:**
> Hi everyone I'm using 12.10 and I have a problem with rhythmbox it is asking for vorbis encoder?? Can anyone help please confused dsos30:confused:
> 
by going to Edit>Preferences and clicking on the Music tab. The Preferred Format is set to Ogg Vorbis and below is a button "Install additional software required to use this format".



The "Install additional software required to use this format" message seen for vorbis encoding is a bug. All needed libraries are installed by default, as is vorbis encoding in RB. (if you went ahead it would have used the 'ubuntu default' 

To get the message to disappear you have to pick ' Custom Setting" & set a quality value, then close & open RB
(Default is gnome default of 3
Ubuntu is a quality of 6
or you can set as desired, higher the better quality

---

### Post by bit-man on 2012-11-05
It worked for me
Thanks!

---

### Post by danceswithcats on 2012-12-03
Has anyone reported this bug?

---

### Post by whochismo on 2012-12-06
It might be this one:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rhythmbox/+bug/1084843](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rhythmbox/+bug/1084843)

The same happens if you select mp3 encoding.

---

### Post by DanieW on 2013-03-06
Thanks. This worked. Quality of 0,9 give 6.6 MB for song and Quality of 0,6 gave 4.7 MB

---

