---
title: "14.04 LTS New Install Slow Boot Off SSD"
date: 2014-06-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by zoso2 on 2014-06-10
Why is my fresh install of 14.04 LTS booting so slow off my SSD? Bootchart attached. Why is it taking 20 seconds for most of the stuff to start loading? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-06-10
Boot-Chart is too small, plus I never learned how to read it.

You should have log file viewer, now called system log, but click on tiny icon on right and open dmesg. That is a timestamped log of your boot activity. Look for errors, warnings, repeated trys at loading something and then either sucess or failure and long times between entries. No need to post entire thing as it is long.

For example mounting my file system seems slow and plymouth shows an error, but my system is working?

```
[    3.973582] random: nonblocking pool is initialized
[    8.291433] EXT4-fs (sdd4): mounted filesystem with ordered data mode. Opts: (null)
[   13.651634] init: plymouth-upstart-bridge main process (173) terminated with status 1

```

---

### Post by zoso2 on 2014-06-11
I think this is the offending code in the dmesg (not the first line, I don't think, that's just there to show you that there's a 16 second gap in the dmesg):

```
[    2.666089] usb 4-1: Manufacturer: FiiO
[   18.625639] xhci_hcd 0000:02:00.0: can't setup: -110
[   18.625642] xhci_hcd 0000:02:00.0: USB bus 8 deregistered
[   18.625710] xhci_hcd 0000:02:00.0: init 0000:02:00.0 fail, -110
[   18.625713] xhci_hcd: probe of 0000:02:00.0 failed with error -110
```

A little Googling suggests this is related to my USB 3.0 controller. How do I fix this? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-06-11
I think it isn't related with your USB3.0 controller - not directly anyway - but with something from this manufacturer - [http://www.fiio.com.cn/](http://www.fiio.com.cn/) - you have attached to it. Try booting without it to see if makes any difference.

---

### Post by zoso2 on 2014-06-11
It's not the Fiio (that's my USB DAC/Headphone Amp). Just booted without it plugged in, the problem persists, still a 16 second gap right before the xhci_hcd lines.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-06-11
Older bug, supposedly fixed.

but comments mention boot parameters which you could try.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1072918](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1072918)

One post
Tested kernel parameters:
- acpi_osi=Linux -> nothing
- pci=nocrs -> nothing
- pci=noacpi -> breaks other hardware, but enables USB3 ports

Is your UEFI/BIOS up to date?
Do you have settings in UEFI to turn on USB ports in UEFI mode. Some have posted that they have a setting like that.

---

### Post by zoso2 on 2014-06-11
No settings like that in my BIOS, which is up to date.

pci=noacpi kernel parameter did not fix the issue.

Should I report this bug somewhere?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-06-11
Did you check if others with your system/BIOS have similar issues?

---

### Post by zoso2 on 2014-06-12
Googled the model number of my mobo + USB 3, came across solution: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2188370](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2188370)

This fixed it. You were super helpful oldfred, thanks.

---

