---
title: "11.04 Running Linux Book"
date: 2011-05-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-18
This may not be the proper place to put this topic. I checked for a book discussion group but there is none.

I have the book by Thomas called 'Beginning Ubuntu Linux' but someone suggested I purchase the 5th editon of 'Running Linux'. This book is 50 bucks and I am sure I can find it used on Amazon than buying it locally for what I stated but will this book give one a better understanding of the operations of Linux compared to the Ubuntu book?

thanks

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-05-18
I would recommend finding guides on the internet. I can do practically anything in Ubuntu (or any Linux, in fact) with a good internet guide and ctrl-alt-t.

As for the book, see if there's a "Look Inside" button in Amazon. See if you like it, and if you really feel you need it, get it. I love myself a good instruction book (as long as I need it). *insert smiley reading book*

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2011-05-18
Agree with the above post.  You can find out just about anything you want to know by reading posts in the forums here or other Linux forums.  If you have a specific problem or question, just ask.  Someone will have had that problem or asked that question before.  If not a lot of people will learn something.

---

### Post by scorpious on 2011-05-18
agreed. Google is your friend. 

So is everyone on ubuntuforums so save your money :)

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-18
Thanks Guys!

---

