---
title: "problems with mounted partition"
date: 2008-07-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by default00 on 2008-07-17
im running XP and ubuntu 8.04 and still have all my files on my windows partition. I had my windows partitioned using the NTFS Configuration Tool and everything was working great. But now im having problems accessing that partition. When i log in the partition hasn't automatically mounted like it used to. When I go to 'Places' and then the other partition I get an error message saying: "Cannot Mount Volume: You are not privileged to mount this volume" Any ideas?

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-07-17
*Drive was not included in your FSTAB file so it was not mounted automatically*

Try to post whatever displays when you input the command using your terminal:

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

and post the content of your /etc/fstab

```
cat /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-07-17
Have you repartitioned your drives that changed the UUIDs or done a kernel update which may have changed the partition designation from /dev/hda to /dev/sda ?

---

### Post by default00 on 2008-07-17
~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 60.0 GB, 60011642880 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 7296 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x41ab2316

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        3697    29696121    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            3698        3759      498015   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda3            3760        7296    28410952+  83  Linux

~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=29afce0a-be73-44c4-b523-f7ef5ed2533a / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=151ffa6d-174e-36b4-de21-e76e1787847b none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

I haven't repartitioned my drives at all although i did update the other day. I'm pretty sure it didn't include a kernel update though.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-07-17
You can include the following line in your fstab, which should let you mount the ntfs partition at boot. Make sure you have made a **mount point** in /media (or /mnt if you prefer):
```

# Entry for /dev/sda1 (ntfs):
/dev/sda1 /media/**mountpoint** ntfs-3g uid=1000,gid=100,umask=022 0 0

```

---

### Post by default00 on 2008-07-17
So I just copy that line of code into my fstab file? How do I make this Mount Point in Media?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-07-17
> **default00 said:**
> So I just copy that line of code into my fstab file? How do I make this Mount Point in Media?

Yes. Make a backup up fstab then open with your favorite editor (this example uses gedit):
```

sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab-backup
gksu gedit /etc/fstab

```

Add this entry in fstab. Change the name of the mountpoint to whatever you wish. (example: /media/windows)
```

# Entry for /dev/sda1 (ntfs):
/dev/sda1 /media/windows ntfs-3g uid=1000,gid=100,umask=022 0 0

```


Make a mountpoint:
```

sudo mkdir /media/windows

```

Unmount and remount /dev/sda1
```

sudo umount /dev/sda1
sudo mount /dev/sda1

```

---

### Post by default00 on 2008-07-17
After the last line...
```
sudo mount /dev/sda1
```

I get:
```
~$ sudo mount /dev/sda1
$LogFile indicates unclean shutdown (0, 0)
Failed to mount '/dev/sda1': Operation not supported
Mount is denied because NTFS is marked to be in use. Choose one action:

Choice 1: If you have Windows then disconnect the external devices by
          clicking on the 'Safely Remove Hardware' icon in the Windows
          taskbar then shutdown Windows cleanly.

Choice 2: If you don't have Windows then you can use the 'force' option for
          your own responsibility. For example type on the command line:

            mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sda1 /media/Windows -o force

    Or add the option to the relevant row in the /etc/fstab file:

            /dev/sda1 /media/Windows ntfs-3g force 0 0

```

Im not really sure how to deal with this...

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-07-17
Boot back into windows and do a normal shutdown. Something happened the last time you quit windows and the partition did not close correctly.

If you look at the error message it tells you what to do. 

I have to leave but if you have any other questions someone will be able to answer you.

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-07-17
Or you could try force-mounting the drive as the option says:

```
sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sda1 /media/Windows -o force
```

---

### Post by default00 on 2008-07-17
Rebooting back into windows and shutting back down did the trick. Thanks drs305.

---

