---
title: "8.04 PPC Live CD Installation Question"
date: 2008-10-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by downisthenewup on 2008-10-07
I am currently running Ubuntu 8.04 for PPC and am in the middle of the Installation process. In step 4 of 7, it is asking how I want to partition the disk. If I choose the first option, "Guided - resize SCSI5 (0,0,0), partition #1 (sdb) and use freed space", will all of my OSX system and files still be intact and bootable, at the same time as Ubuntu being bootable on its partition? 
Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by RideBMX on 2008-10-07
It should tell what size it will shrink the OS X partition to and what size the Ubuntu partition will be. So, yes; As long as you use the resize option, all the files will still be there, you'll just have less space.

---

### Post by downisthenewup on 2008-10-07
Thank you for your answer, I can finally click forward and have Ubnutu!

Edit-Ran into another problem.

---

### Post by downisthenewup on 2008-10-07
I seem to have run into a problem. When I chose the first guided option, it said that there too little space. I realized that for some reason it was trying to partition my external hd that was connected. I ejected the hd, rebooted, and ran the installer again and that first guided option was gone, and the 3 options now are Guided - use entire disk, and Guided - use the largest continuous free space, and manual.

Which option should I choose to keep my OSX system and files as well as install Ubuntu?

---

