---
title: "10.10 ...can't install HD5830 drivers or dpkg"
date: 2011-02-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by BananaPeal on 2011-02-15
Hello,

First off, this is my second attempt at Linux (Gubuntu 10.10), this time I'm running off a USB flash drive. It's a casper-persistent drive and I have an HD5830 in the machine that I'll use it most.

My problems: I can't install the latest catalyst driver using the System>>Admin>>"Additional Drivers" command. It returns an error that installArchives() failed.

I tried both catalyst 11.1 and 11.2 from amd's website and both produced the error that dpkg had an error on line 40 etc...

other forum pple suggested fixing dpkg by using: 
> sudo rm /var/lib/dpkg/avail*

then I ran > sudo apt-get update

 and a host of errors popped errors like: 

> W: Failed to fetch [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/maverick-updates/restricted/source/Sources.gz](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/maverick-updates/restricted/source/Sources.gz)  Could not open file /var/lib/apt/lists/partial/archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_maverick-updates_restricted_source_Sources - open (22: Invalid argument) [IP: 91.189.88.31 80]


are these bad?

anyways, all stuck now... what should I try next?

Also, a little new to the casper system... if I manage to install the HD5830  driver, will I be able to take my thumb drive and run this linux on a computer with say... an HD4650? Will it then be able to install drivers and not freak out on a Nvidia computer? 

Thank you for your time,
:popcorn:
Alex

---

### Post by Mariane on 2011-02-15
I would try: 

```

sudo cp /var/lib/dpkg available-old /var/lib/dpkg/available
apt-get update

```

There is a command for clearing the file without deleting it: 

```

dpkg --clear-avail

```

If even the old file is corrupted you can try creating an empty file (with a text editor), calling it "available" and saving it (as root) in /var/lib/dpkg


Mariane

---

### Post by BananaPeal on 2011-02-15
Mariane:

available-old doesn't exist... :( 

this is the first time I've run this ubuntu install. 

It seems that a few months ago, with a usb drive that I've since lost, I used the 32bit ubuntu and I had no driver issues! Are there differences in the usb drive implementation and something operating off your hard-disk that might mess up the driver-updating process?

---

### Post by Mariane on 2011-02-15
I don't know the answer to that. 
What happens when you try to install something else? 

Mariane

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-02-15
If  you're running in 'live' mode, there are limitations.

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-02-15
> this is the first time I've run this ubuntu install.

It seems that a few months ago, with a usb drive that I've since lost, I used the 32bit ubuntu and I had no driver issues! Are there differences in the usb drive implementation and something operating off your hard-disk that might mess up the driver-updating process?

If you're using the 64bit package, there may well be driver issues, it's one of the reasons not too many people use it yet.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=403064]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=403064")

---

### Post by BananaPeal on 2011-02-16
Hello again,

it seems that my bug is this one: (Recall that my linux is on USB stick)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usb-creator/+bug/557023](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usb-creator/+bug/557023)
or
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/casper/+bug/557023](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/casper/+bug/557023)

it's a problem with casper not allowing system changes while the system is loaded up as the OS. I'm not quite sure what to make of the "fix released" status though.

As they suggest, I've enabled the proposed repositories but still can't find any updates to casper, and the command:
> 
sudo update-initramfs -u 

fails with: > cp: cannot stat `/vmlinuz': No such file or directory


 a user on the launchpad service suggested that the commands: 
> sudo rm /vmlinuz
sudo ln -s /cdrom/casper/vmlinuz /vmlinuz

Should I try these? Is it dangerous? (I'm new to symbolic links and what vmlinuz even does...) Should I start a new thread (getting offtopic?) ?

---

### Post by BananaPeal on 2011-02-16
Hello once more, 

Ever since attempt at installing fglrx, both synaptic manager and aptitude won't do anything until it's removed and it can't be removed unless it finds that vmlinuz folder in a happy writeable state...

So no more package updates for me...

Time to reformat?

Thanks!

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2011-02-16
> If you're using the 64bit package, there may well be driver issues, it's one of the reasons not too many people use it yet.
That poll is old(April 6th, 2007)there is no reason to use 32bit legacy any more.
Except 32bit processors.


Sharky

---

### Post by BananaPeal on 2011-02-16
Thanks for your insights guys...

I'm way past this now as I've tried to force the proprietary drivers and all of ubuntu's package updates onto a live-usb with persistence. 

Didn't realize the limitations of the live-usb setup as the consequences were that while alot of things appeared installed, sudo and some other programs stopped working (or appeared to). 

So looks like I may move to a full usb install. I do appreciate your time! Take care,

---

