---
title: "11.04 no wifi"
date: 2011-09-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by foreman25 on 2011-09-11
Hello, I'm a newbie to Linux. I just bought an HP Pavilion g6 and wiped out the Windows 7 standard. Installed Linux and it's going great so far but I've run into a little problem. The wifi card is not recognizing any wifi in the area. I'm told it's a Ralink RT5390. I don't have much knowledge of the computer command world, but my dad has been teaching me. He did a search for the card and ubuntu 11.04 which led to this thread: ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1645716 
The antenna_divercity_support was not there in the config.mk file so we entered it in but to no avail. I would greatly appreciate any help. Thank you.

---

### Post by gandaran on 2011-09-11
> Ralink RT5390
you will have to install the driver for this chipset, if you search the networking and wireless section for Ralink RT5390 threads you can find many with instructions on how to get and install the driver.

---

### Post by shubham1 on 2011-09-11
try wicd
sudo apt-get install wicd
in a terminal or search for wicd in ubuntu software cneter and click on install

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-09-11
> **shubham1 said:**
> try wicd
sudo apt-get install wicd
in a terminal or search for wicd in ubuntu software cneter and click on install

The OP doesn't need another wireless connection manager - they've already got Network Manager. The OP needs a driver.

---

### Post by bkratz on 2011-09-11
See this thread and the link in post 2 by Chili555

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743525](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743525)

---

