---
title: "Permission denied in terminal mode deleting files..."
date: 2009-03-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ozark_hillbilly on 2009-03-11
How do you give yourself the necessary permission to delete files?

In terminal I have tried to delete a bunch of old xorg.conf backup files generated by repair x server in recovery mode. Permission denied.

How do you give yourself "GOD STATUS" to do what you want, right or wrong?

Ed

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-03-11
preface your delete attempt with "sudo" 

or, launch nautilus with 

```
gksudo nautilus
```

Be careful...

---

### Post by halitech on 2009-03-11
prefix any command in the terminal with sudo to give you 'root' access. just be very careful you don't delete anything you don't want to delete as there is no undelete from the terminal

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-03-11
sudo rm foo

---

### Post by firefly2442 on 2009-03-12
Yeah, seriously be very careful.  I accidentally used a * in the wrong place and was typing quickly and I deleted a bunch of important stuff.  Thankfully, I had a backup but be very careful.

---

### Post by teamcoltra on 2009-03-12
lol I love it, I want to make a shirt for it:

Sudo... like terminal God mode.

---

### Post by ozark_hillbilly on 2009-03-13
blueridge,

Opening nautilus generated this"

eld@House:~$ gksudo nautilus
Initializing nautilus-share extension
Nautilus-Share-Message: Called "net usershare info" but it failed: 'net usershare' returned error 255: net usershare: cannot open usershare directory /var/lib/samba/usershares. Error No such file or directory
Please ask your system administrator to enable user sharing.

How do I enable user sharing?

Ed

---

