---
title: "/usr/bin/X11/X11/X11/X11/X11/X11/X11/X11/X11/X11..."
date: 2008-06-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dhughes on 2008-06-14
Why is /usr/bin/X11/  a bottomless pit of subdirectories?

---

### Post by Yuki_Nagato on 2008-06-14
It is not a folder, but a "link to a folder."  As to why it keeps appending its own name onto the end of the file URL, I do not know.

---

### Post by forestpixie on 2008-06-14
> Why is /usr/bin/X11/ a bottomless pit of subdirectories?

Not quite bottomless - I see that I have 1400 subdirectories - are they all X11 :-k

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-06-14
crazy. I have no idea how that happened. I just removed it entirely from /usr/bin...no reason for X11 folder to be in /usr/bin. Rebooting now....will post again if anything unexpected happens.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-06-14
so far so good. after rebooting the X11 directory link did not return to /usr/bin

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-06-14
Why bother deleteing, it is a virtual directory so it's not taking up any room.

Jim

---

### Post by tamoneya on 2008-06-14
```
tamoneya@ubuntu0:~$ ls -la /usr/bin/X11
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 1 2008-04-02 19:46 /usr/bin/X11 -> .

```
It is taking up no space.  Probably just some place holder or something.  I wouldnt delete it especially since it takes up no space.

forestpixie: it is actually bottomless so the 1400 subdirectories is probably due to some limitation in nautilus or something.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-06-14
Why leave it? I don't want it there. It isn't serving any function.

---

### Post by lisati on 2008-06-14
I had a similar weird occurrence on an old ms-dos machine once, my guess at the time was that the pointers within the directory structure got messed up. As long as X11 doesn't/didn't point to anything vital to system operation or to important data, I don't see any harm in removing it.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-06-14
going to see if I can reproduce it using a tofrodos program, first, and then running vmware-server if the first doesn't do it.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-06-14
was there an actual problem here?

---

### Post by Bonk on 2010-08-03
Sorry to revive a dead thread. Googled it and this was all that came up.

I have 61 sub directories of x11 and it is taking up 16gb. So, it IS taking up space.

---

### Post by Primefalcon on 2010-08-03
> **Bonk said:**
> Sorry to revive a dead thread. Googled it and this was all that came up.

I have 61 sub directories of x11 and it is taking up 16gb. So, it IS taking up space.
Hardly it's just a symbolic link that is linking back to itself, look elsewhere for what is taking your space.

---

### Post by marshmallow1304 on 2010-08-03
> **Bonk said:**
> I have 61 sub directories of x11 and it is taking up 16gb. So, it IS taking up space.

```
du /usr/bin/X11
0	/usr/bin/X11
```

---

