---
title: "9.10: 2nd monitor dimensions changed themselves?"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by VioletCrime on 2010-05-09
So, there I was tooling away at Ubuntu. Actually, I was trying out a new game Chromium B.S.U..

ANYWAYS; Game crashes, takes the system with it (at least to the point I couldn't save it; couldn't even bring up the virtual terminal (not that I'd be able to do anything with it had I managed to get there...), so it's reset button time.

After Ubuntu started back up, my icons had changed themselves to Oxygen, and the dimensions on my secondary monitor (40" Bravia) are... wrong? Xserver shows the correct resolution, but the menu is off the edge of the screen. Nothing terribly obvious in the Xserver application that may be causing this, so I'm at a loss (didn't take much :P ).

---

### Post by VioletCrime on 2010-05-11
I was really debating a shameless bumping of this thread, but now I have a legit reason to post! ^_^

Don't know how, but the dimensions are back to good. The only things I've done since they were last known to be out of whack are watching movies in VLC and changed my desktop background (turned on the TV to check to see how it looks after making the change, and voila!).

Soooooo... still as lost as ever, but given the overwhelming response, it seems I'm not the only one! -_^ b

---

### Post by VioletCrime on 2010-05-14
Sooo, the day after the last post, the problem returned on the secondary monitor again. I figure 'screw it, I'll update and that'll take care of it'. So now I'm on 10.04 LTS, but the problem persists anyways?

I can't see the menu bars on the secondary monitor, and there's space on all 4 sides of the displayed image my mouse can travel that I can't see, and now on the primary monitor, the mouse can go above the to menu a fair ways as well :confused:.

Anybody else experiencing this madness?

---

