---
title: "10.04 - is there a way to &quot;spoof&quot; a MAC address?"
date: 2010-06-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-12
I'm sure a question like this would normally not be answered here out of security concerns.  If that is the case with this post, could someone please PM me?

The problem:  I moved in with my sister and brother in-law (I have the basement) late last year.  At first my only internet access was dial-up.  Last winter my brother in-law gave me permission to hook up wireless to his DSL connection so I could share that.

I had a Netgear wireless G router from my old apartment, so I hooked it up and got the 4 computers in the house talking to the net.  Next I added security - WPA2-TKIP/AES and MAC filtering.

This week I picked up a netbook, so I thought I'd just use one of the PC's and http into the router setup page.  It fails on every computer, saying the connection has timed out and it has never connected. 

I tried disabling the radio on my brother in-laws laptop and hard-wiring it since it is by the router, still couldn't get to the setup page.

So.....I want to add my netbook to the MAC filtering, but the only way I'm going to be able to do so is to reset the router and re-config it again, and that leaves me a little leary considering I can't connect to the setup "port" the way it is - I don't want to reset it and find I can't get it set back up.

So I'd like to know if there is a way to make my netbook "spoof" the same MAC as my desktop so I can use the wireless until I decide what I'm going to do with the router.

Thanks in advance!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by dadgetboy on 2010-06-12
Check out macchanger
```
sudo apt-get install macchanger
```

[http://www.alobbs.com/macchanger/](http://www.alobbs.com/macchanger/)

---

### Post by Mazin on 2010-06-12
Try using ifconfig since it is already on your system.

```
sudo ifconfig wlan0 hw ether xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx
```

obviously change wlan0 and the mac address you'd like.

BTW, it's not really "spoofing" since you're not forging anything.  You're simply changing a setting on your network interface.  I think "cloning" is the preferred term.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-12
Well, I decided to see if I could get this working on the Windows side (dual-boot) first, then try the Ubuntu side.  Since it does work on the Windows side, with the information you both have posted I should be able to get the Ubuntu side working as well.

Thanks!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-06-26
Okay, finally got Ubuntu dual-booting on my netbook, so I tried this out tonight.  

The ifconfig works, however it does not seem to remembered after a boot (at least it was reset after a reboot due to update manager running updates).

Any ideas how to make this stick?

Thanks again!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by guzz20 on 2010-07-07
Enter this command: sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces

Then add these lines to the file:

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
       hwaddress ether 01:02:03:04:05:06

if you want to change your wlan MAC just change eth0 to wlan0 and enter the MAC

Then just restart networking:

sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart

 or boot.

Now maybe somebody can help me because when I do this on 10.04 I get a new interface called wlan0:avahi so what is this? Should I ignore it? Is it going to give me some error in certain circumstances?

Thanks.

---

