---
title: "GRUB miscue results in &quot;Error 15 - no file found&quot;"
date: 2013-01-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Javelin Dan on 2013-01-17
[FONT=&quot]This is a dual installation with Ubuntu 12.04 on sda1 and Puppy Lucid 5.28 on sda3. The other day I was screwing around with trying to install Puppy Precise on a brand new Kodak 16 GB flashdrive. This is something I&#8217;ve done many times before and am very familiar with, but I was &#8220;downloading while distracted&#8221; and may have entered a typo while installing GRUB. Also, the flashdrive may have been funky because while I was manually running Gparted, the installation of my swap file hung up and ended in an error the first time (never happened to me before) &#8211; but it  installed normally on the second try. In any case, when all was said and done and I tried to reboot, I was greeted with the message &#8220;Error 15 &#8211; no file found&#8221; on both partitions.[/FONT]
  
  [FONT=&quot]I first popped in a Live CD of Puppy Linux (simply because it boots faster) and opened up Gparted to look at my partitions. Because of their configuration and size, I realized nothing had changed there and that my problem must have something to do with my GRUB installation. I then re-installed GRUB for both partitions via the Puppy live CD. Upon reboot, I found that I had my ability to boot Lucid Pup back, but any attempt to boot Ubuntu failed and still resulted in the &#8220;Error 15&#8221; message. [/FONT]
  
  [FONT=&quot]I then jumped on the internet and started to research this problem. I learned two things:  1.)This is apparently a pretty common problem, especially with dual boot set-ups, and  2.) A lot of people way smarter than me got hung up on this problem and asked for help. So I guess I shouldn&#8217;t feel too bad about getting my &#8220;you-know-what&#8221; caught in the wringer. Yeah, that&#8217;s the ticket, we&#8217;ll go with that![/FONT]
  
  [FONT=&quot]I found three possible solutions that I could understand and follow. The first was a GUI solution explained here: [http://www.howopensource.com/2012/05/reinstall-recover-grub-from-ubuntu-12-04-live-cd-usb/](http://www.howopensource.com/2012/05/reinstall-recover-grub-from-ubuntu-12-04-live-cd-usb/), a command line only solution explained here: [http://howtoubuntu.org/how-to-repairrestorereinstall-grub-2-with-a-ubuntu-live-cd/#.UPbYQPJLT1U](http://howtoubuntu.org/how-to-repairrestorereinstall-grub-2-with-a-ubuntu-live-cd/#.UPbYQPJLT1U), and a guide for installing Super GRUB here: [http://www.supergrubdisk.org/super-grub2-disk/](http://www.supergrubdisk.org/super-grub2-disk/). Being basically a GUI guy who occasionally gets a little bumfuzzled with the command line, I chose to try these fixes in the order in which I&#8217;ve listed them, starting with the easiest first. [/FONT]
  
  [FONT=&quot]While others I read about had much more persistent problems, I was able to solve mine with the first option by simply popping in a live Ubuntu CD, installing the utility &#8220;Boot Repair&#8221;, and following the directions in the tutorial they provide. There was one very minor glitch where after copying and pasting some code (they make it super easy by highlighting everything &#8211; all you have to do is click &#8220;copy&#8221; and then paste in the terminal), I got a terminal window that said something was going on and there was an &#8220;OK&#8221; button at the bottom, but clicking on that or hitting &#8220;Enter&#8221; did nothing to advance beyond that window. No worries, I just minimized the window, and kept clicking &#8220;Forward&#8221; and following the instructions in the rest of the tutorial. Soon, I had a window congratulating me that I had successfully repaired and reinstalled GRUB to sda1, my Ubuntu partition location. A reboot confirmed this, and I now have everything back and "boot-a-licious" the way it was before.[/FONT]
  
  [FONT=&quot]Apparently, the procedure to properly install GRUB to Ubuntu is very different from the one to install it to Puppy Linux(?). I do realize that this procedure won&#8217;t solve everyone&#8217;s problems, but if not, maybe one of the other solutions suggested here will. I&#8217;m just trying to leave a trail of bread crumbs for any non-command-line-proficient newbies that might come this way. As I often say..."Every time I fail I learn something, and I've learned a lot!" To any who tries this, best of luck![/FONT]

---

