---
title: "8.10 package dilemma (Acer Aspire 5100)"
date: 2009-01-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ndo on 2009-01-12
Hi - 

I'm running 32-bit 8.10 LiveCD on an Acer Aspire 5100 with Atheros 5007EG wireless adapter, which of course isn't working. I've got another laptop here (thankfully) which has internet, but it leaves me in a serious bind - how the hell am I supposed to get the wireless working on my Ubuntu laptop if I can't connect to the internet??? I don't have access to a wired connection, so is there anything I can do? I'm guessing Ubuntu doesn't come with drivers for wireless cards, or at least the Atheros series, or is that a wrong assumption based on the fact I'm just to inexperienced to locate them?

Is it possible to download package files in windows and then run them in Ubuntu via usb jump drive?

Any and all help on this - outside of "no internet yer screwed n00b" - will be really appreciated. Thanks for taking the time to read this, and if I find a solution in the meantime I'll post it here.

---

### Post by yobird42 on 2009-01-12
yes. go to packages.ubuntu.com download the files and dependencies and install them on the other computer.

---

### Post by ndo on 2009-01-15
Thank you for the advice, yobird.

Ok, I've found out that - at least for starters - I need to install an update called ath5k (which is not listed in the aforementioned db, fyi) which I was able to dl as part of a tarball on windows and xfer over to Ubuntu. Question now is - how do I install the file? I've tried following the instructions on various sites, but I'm guessing that maybe because its on the desktop that the commands are invalid? 

The Ubuntu OS and file structure doesn't lend itself well to the GUI crowd, but I'm here to learn - can someone please show me the basic commands to manually install an update, or a page or site that has them? JFGI need not apply, as I'm at my wits end with results that bear the bitter fruit of failure. Sorry for the dramatic prose - I'm sure you all know how frustrating this can be. Thanks for any help

---

