---
title: ".aspx display problems with Firefox"
date: 2008-04-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by DamonChyld on 2008-04-23
I am trying to access a .aspx site for work through my home computer but am having problems getting the site to display properly. The site relies heavily on frames and, after login, it does not display any information in the main document frame when I try to navigate. 

I am able to access the site through IE in VirtualBox but I would much rather not have to deal with the headaches that come with working in that environment (multiple desktops, drain on laptop resources, etc).

I have tried using the User Agent Switcher plugin for Firefox but this does not solve the problem (same results when I try IE, Netscape, or Opera). I have also tried IEs4Linux but I receive a "Server error in '/' Application" error. 

Does anyone have a solution to this problem?

---

### Post by DamonChyld on 2008-04-24
I kindly bump this post. I do not know what else to do to troubleshoot this problem and could really use some help. Thanks ;)

---

### Post by DamonChyld on 2008-04-28
Hmm, is anyone please able to help give me a bit of direction with this?

---

### Post by Malc11 on 2008-12-11
Hi,

I was trying to use the Tesco shopping site with Firefox at [www.tesco.co.uk](www.tesco.co.uk) tonight using the 8.10 liveCD I downloaded today.

Whilst I could open the site - several pages/functions were unavailable - e.g. Booking a Delivery slot. Firefox was insisting on treating the files as bin files and wanted to download them when clicking the link.

After a bit of exploring I realised that all the pages with problems had the aspx extension. And there's lots of frames.

After reading this site:-

[http://forums.opensuse.org/archives/sf-archives/archives-software/330877-solved-firefox-2-0-tries-download-aspx-pages-under-suse-10-2-a.html](http://forums.opensuse.org/archives/sf-archives/archives-software/330877-solved-firefox-2-0-tries-download-aspx-pages-under-suse-10-2-a.html) 

I added the .mime.types file as discribed and it all worked.

Its not an aspx problem per se - as other aspx pages work. 

I'm guessing there's some internal tags missing within the page which firefox would normally use to workout how to render it - and without that it falls back to trying to workout what the .aspx is and then if it doesn't know assumes its a download.

Maybe the above might help?

---

### Post by CholericKoala on 2008-12-11
ZZZzzzZZZzzzombie

---

