---
title: "10.04 and PCMCIA wireless card"
date: 2010-07-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-16
10.04 and Actiontec PCMCIA wireless card.

I just installed 10.04 on an older Dell Inspiron 8100 that has no internal wireless card.

When it was running XP I used an Actiontec 802ctg wireless card to connect to my Actiontec Qwest DSL wireless modem.

Ubuntu 10.04 does not see this card and apparently has no drivers for it.

I have searched Google and cannot find a solution after many hours looking. I did find a few things that might work but am afraid to try something and not know how to undo it. <g>

I have looked at the list @ [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wi...CardsSupported](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wi...CardsSupported) but that is very hard to find a 10.04 specific card.

Could someone share a PCMCIA wireless card that they are using successfully in 10.04? I would really like to take this machine on the road with no cord and connect at hotels and other hot spots.

Thanks. Bob.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-07-16
As far as I remember pcmcia is hot pluggable, could you remove the card, then re-insert it, then open a terminal and type:

```
dmesg | tail -n10
```

and paste the output in your next post.

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-16
Sure

bob@bob:~$ dmesg | tail -n10
[  129.236258] pci 0000:07:00.0: PME# disabled
[  129.252612] ndiswrapper 0000:07:00.0: enabling device (0000 -> 0002)
[  129.252642] ndiswrapper 0000:07:00.0: PCI INT A -> Link[LNKD] -> GSI 10 (level, low) -> IRQ 10
[  129.253322] ndiswrapper 0000:07:00.0: setting latency timer to 64
[  129.319576] ndiswrapper (mp_init:219): couldn't initialize device: C0000001
[  129.319596] ndiswrapper (pnp_start_device:435): Windows driver couldn't initialize the device (C0000001)
[  129.319623] ndiswrapper (mp_halt:262): device c2910ba0 is not initialized - not halting
[  129.319632] ndiswrapper: device eth%d removed
[  129.319669] ndiswrapper 0000:07:00.0: PCI INT A disabled
[  129.319723] ndiswrapper: probe of 0000:07:00.0 failed with error -22
bob@bob:~$

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-07-17
Interesting - we see in the system log segment you posted why the attempt with ndiswrapper didn't work - the driver won't initialize the adapter.

For everyone reading this:

We couldn't find a native driver so we tried ndiswrapper with the Windows XP driver.  The results in the log segment are self-explanatory.  Since the OP is quite willing to just buy another adapter, I suggested they close (which they did) the old post asking how to get it working, and instead open this post asking for what PCMCIA wireless cards they should be able to buy to work out of the box in Ubuntu.

So.....unless you have the magic bullet for getting it running, I know the OP has posted this looking for input on what adapter to buy.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-17
Thanks, I am not looking for specific brands as that would probably be in bad taste. <g>

Just what others have working out of the box in 10.04 and then I can make a decision on which to buy.

Thanks to all in advance. Bob.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-07-17
Sorry I couldn't help you more, Bob.

Best of luck!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-17
Maybe even a USB device, though I think it might be slower?

I just bought and tried a Netgear wg511 and it did not work either.

I'm beginning to throw money away I think. <g>

Help!

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-17
Wait, wait! I just pointed it to the WIN-XP .inf file on the install CD after copying it to my desktop and it is working!

I am right next to the router and it is only showing 62% but I guess that is better than nothing?

---

### Post by techunit on 2010-07-17
Did you use Ndiswrapper for this? My first time using linux required me to compile Ndiswrapper from scratch... Ahh hours of time doing this... drove me nuts!...

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-07-17
> **techunit said:**
> Did you use Ndiswrapper for this? My first time using linux required me to compile Ndiswrapper from scratch... Ahh hours of time doing this... drove me nuts!...

You normally don't have a need to compile ndiswrapper - just install it via Synaptic Package Manager, and while you're at it, install ndisgtk as well - it's a gui'd front end to ndiswrapper and makes life much easier.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-07-18
You may want to review the pages on the following link:

[http://http://wize.com/wireless-adapters/t117480-ubuntu]("http://wize.com/wireless-adapters/t117480-ubuntu")

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-07-18
Ndiswrapper is included on the Live CD, so it can be installed without a network connection. Look in /pool/main/n.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-07-18
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Ndiswrapper is included on the Live CD, so it can be installed without a network connection. Look in /pool/main/n.

Yeah, been telling people about that, ndisgtk, etc., for quite a while.  Some people miss that when they are trying to help someone with wireless problems who can't connect to the net in any other way.

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-18
Yes I did have to use Ndiswrapper.
And thinks to anewguy for the easy way. <g>
Bob.

---

### Post by peterwelsche on 2010-07-18
Hey I can't figure out how to post a new thread, but I'm new to Linux and not to knowlegable when it comes to PC's but just tried ubuntu through a flash on my HP mini.  And the wireless won't work I need this feature if I reformat my small hard drive to the Ubuntu OS.  the flash OS says there s drivers but fails the install.  Does any one out there know if the hard ware thats in my mini will work with the drivers that ubuntu instals???

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-07-19
> **peterwelsche said:**
> Hey I can't figure out how to post a new thread, but I'm new to Linux and not to knowlegable when it comes to PC's but just tried ubuntu through a flash on my HP mini.  And the wireless won't work I need this feature if I reformat my small hard drive to the Ubuntu OS.  the flash OS says there s drivers but fails the install.  Does any one out there know if the hard ware thats in my mini will work with the drivers that ubuntu instals???

Go to the forum page, not a thread page, and click on "New Thread".

---

### Post by bob brazie on 2010-07-19
Start here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php](http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php)

---

