---
title: "10.04 All changes discarged after next boot"
date: 2012-05-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by DocHotzenplotz on 2012-05-26
Hy,
I am running 
-Ubuntu 10.04, 
- Asus EEE 900
- 2Gb Ram
- 32Gb SSD
- 16 Gb-SD-Card

Symptoms:

- I cannot make an update
- Changes in the Panel will be accepted for this session, discarded after next bootup
- I can save a text with gedit, reload it, after the next bootup its gone
- I can delete a text from my filesystem, after the next bootup its appears again
- (same happens to Bookmarks-Saving in firefox i.e.)
- Evolution: Some Emails (IMAP) got reloaded again and again, others will be load only once, I can delete here, they dont appear again

There must be something happened to my system around May 14. (last saved document in the filesystem) and 15. (email form this day are reloaded again and again).

I would be happy to get some advice,
thanks from DocHotzi

:guitar:

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2012-05-26
Without having a look at your system, it appears to me you have a problem with the file system (ext4) in that it is not writing anything to it whatever you do in the session and when you log back in it displays the last saved session.

If this is the problem I would back up your home directory and re-install from scratch.  They maybe someone with a better and easier solution (re-installing is pretty easy though).

---

### Post by DocHotzenplotz on 2012-05-26
Which information do you need about my system?

---

### Post by DocHotzenplotz on 2012-05-27
I can add the following:

When I tried to update, which is all the time faulty, one of another programm is closing and I cannot start any programm anymore. I initiate a Restart, but it doesnt quit the session at all. With F2 I can see the "Commands" of shutting down and where it stacks: "Stopping the Winbind daemon winbind" 
From there I can only hold the powerbutton till it switched off.

DH  ):P

---

### Post by DocHotzenplotz on 2012-05-27
Next addition:

When I want to start the Synaptic Package Manager I am getting the following error code:

E: Encountered a section with no Package: header
E: Problem with MergeList /var/lib/apt/lists/no.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_lucid_main_binary-i386_Packages
E: The package lists or status file could not be parsed or opened.
E: _cache->open() failed, please report.

... and it doesnt startup.

DH

---

### Post by DocHotzenplotz on 2012-06-06
ok, I like to follow your instructions and Re-install my system.
Right now I wanted to make a copy of my homefolder and checked the size  before. It says it has 16 TB. TB is Terrabyte?! I have a 32 GB SSD.
Actually there is something funny about this... 
I need your help,
DH

---

### Post by westie457 on 2012-06-06
Hi boot up using a LiveCD/USB in try mode.
Open Gparted and unmount all partitions by right-clicking and selecting 'umnount'.
Do a file-system check on each partition to attempt repairs.

Reboot into normal and recheck the size of the partitions. If normal retry what you were doing, if still being mis-reported go to here for what is probably the best solution for you. [http://www.rodsbooks.com/fixparts/](http://www.rodsbooks.com/fixparts/)

Full explanation and usage instructions are there. Read them before trying anything. If unsure about this just ask and someone will help out.

---

