---
title: "12.04 help needed."
date: 2012-08-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ganga1234 on 2012-08-28
hi..im newbie to ubuntu..i cant install any packages in it..the error shows
**could not open lock file /var/lib/dpkg/lock unable to lock admin directory(/var/dib/dbkg/) r u root? ** can anyone please help me...

---

### Post by sam1948 on 2012-08-28
sorry for asking but did u forget using sudo?

---

### Post by ganga1234 on 2012-08-28
no...when i tried to install firefox,it shows


You might want to run 'apt-get -f install' to correct these:
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 ghostscript : Depends: libgs9 (= 9.05~dfsg-0ubuntu4.1) but 9.05~dfsg-0ubuntu4 is to be installed
 libgs9 : Depends: libgs9-common (= 9.05~dfsg-0ubuntu4) but 9.05~dfsg-0ubuntu4.1 is to be installed
E: Unmet dependencies. Try 'apt-get -f install' with no 
 libgs9 : Depends: libgs9-common (= 9.05~dfsg-0ubuntu4) but 9.05~dfsg-0ubuntu4.1 is to be installed
E: Unmet dependencies. Try 'apt-get -f install' with no packages (or specify a solution).

E: Could not open lock file /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (13: Permission denied)
E: Unable to lock the administ()

---

### Post by taras.kuzyo on 2012-08-28
Do you have Synaptic opened?

---

### Post by ganga1234 on 2012-08-28
yes..but it says i have 2 broken packages..

---

### Post by mkstallings1 on 2012-08-28
If you open Synaptic and then try to install through the terminal, it won't work.  You can work on apt-get through one or the other, not both at the same time.  Try closing Synaptic and then doing your work in the terminal.

---

### Post by sam1948 on 2012-08-31
just to summarize:

if any of the steps causes problems or errors please post them here.

1. restart the computer
2. open terminal and run:
```
sudo apt-get update
```
3. open terminal and run:
```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
4. now after 1-3 had been completed, try to install the package from command line```
sudo dpkg -i your_pkg_file_full_path_or_run_from_its_directory
```

---

