---
title: "8.10: Installed Gnome-Art and Simple Backup. Where did they go?"
date: 2009-02-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by walterius on 2009-02-11
I installed them with Synaptic, but they don't show in any of the three menus. How can I put them in menus so I can use them?

Also, I'd like opinions as to which is better, Simple Backup or HUBackup? Or something else? (I've never done an Ubuntu backup.) I have a DVD/CD-RW drive.

8.10 is running as a program installed under Vista Home Basic.

Many thanks. :)

Walterius

---

### Post by AllRadioisDead on 2009-02-11
For your first question, right click on your menu and select "Edit Menu".
Create a launcher where you want them to appear.

---

### Post by plucky on 2009-02-12
Gnome-Art = **System > Preferences > Art Manager**

To get the GUI for simplebackup ```
sudo apt-get install sbackup
``` 
Then look in **System > Administration** for the simple backup config and restore GUI


Good Luck

---

### Post by infinitejones on 2009-02-12
Simple Backup (I assume you did apt-get install sbackup) appears in System -> Admininstration. There will two items - Simple Backup Config and Simple Backup Restore. Nice and straightforward.

I've used Simple Backup for a while with no major problems at all, backing up the default folders to a remote NFS folder and deleting the backup logarithmically. (The Config dialogs explain "logarithmically" better than I can!)

---

### Post by freesitebuilder on 2009-02-12
I had a lot of trouble with sbackup - it just doesn't seem to tell you if it's worked or not. And when I needed to restore, my backups were all faulty. :( Now I'm using grsync.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-02-12
You could try remastersys, it'll create a bootable ISO of an exact duplicate of your HD. You can then burn it to CD/DVD depending on the size. My big stuff (like music, etc.) I keep on their own DVDs and tell remastersys not to backup those folders. Just Google remastersys and you'll find it.

---

### Post by walterius on 2009-02-13
Thanks to all! I got my menus.:guitar:

---

