---
title: "AMD 785g"
date: 2010-09-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Failboat88 on 2010-09-02
Will the amd 785g work well for a htpc? Should I get a dedicated nvidia card, instead?

---

### Post by QIII on 2010-09-02
HD 4200?  Probably good.  But ...

What probably matters is how much dedicated memory that has.  In general, I would say you would get the best performance from a dedicated GPU (that will keep the processing on the card and not on your CPU) with a much memory as you can find -- be that ATI or NVIDIA.

You'll probably get the typical ATI/NVIDIA flame war.  Disregard it.  You also have the choice of a dedicated ATI GPU.

AMD/ATI is a member of the Linux Foundation and is committed to the Linux platform.  Just like NVIDIA, however, its drivers may or may not work well with any particular GPU/Hardware configuration.  (The old FUD "ATI sux" has some very real basis.  Before AMD bought ATI, Linux support really did suck.)

Both NVIDIA and ATI can get you the graphics experience you want -- provided the *particular *application of hardware and driver is suitable.

I would search the forums for comments on that particular chipset/GPU.  (Google something like "site:ubuntuforums.org HD 4200 ATI AMD 785g" and see what you get.)

Again:  Don't give in to the flame war.  Use whichever combination (AMD/ATI or NVIDIA) that your research shows will give you the performance you want.  Use what *works.  *Don't base your choice on anyone else's brand loyalty.

EDIT:  Please don't read this as "RTFM".  Unless someone can provide objective benchmarks, I think all you will get is opinion.  Unfortunately, you will probably have to do some research to find some objectivity.

---

