---
title: "8.04, VMware (XP), and Firefox 3 Speed"
date: 2008-07-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mdpalow on 2008-07-12
Hi all,

Just installed 8.04 and VMware (Windows XP) and curious about some things.

1. Hardy seems to run pretty well, but I'm curious if 8.04 is slower than 7.10? If you know some stats or specifics, could you please comment.

2. I've had VMware with XP before on 7.10 and I don't remember XP running so slowly. Now I'm not saying it's dead slow, but it seems slow enough now that I'm recognizing it where as before I don't ever remember thinking of it.

3. Evolution keeps asking me for default keyring to run. Could that have anything to do with me turning off the login window? How do I avoid having to type in my password when Evolution comes up next time?

4. What do you think about going back to Firefox 2.0 vs. keeping 3.0.

My specs: AMD X2 6000 Dual Core, nVidia 8600 GT, 3 Gigs RAM, SATA 3.0 Gig Drives.

My processor doesn't seem to be pushed very had and the RAM certainly isn't being pushed, but I'm surprised mostly at VMware running XP being slower than I remember.

Thanks for any insight/discussion you might post.

---

### Post by TSS on 2008-07-12
Not sure about the other issues, but some other please have had the FF problem.  Check out this thread for possible solutions: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=824754](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=824754)

---

### Post by mdpalow on 2008-07-12
> **TSS said:**
> Not sure about the other issues, but some other please have had the FF problem.  Check out this thread for possible solutions: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=824754](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=824754)

thanks

Anyone else?

---

