---
title: "11.04 - window buttons locations"
date: 2011-05-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-20
I see there is a bit of a sticky situation when using Unity in 11.04 - at least I assume it's Unity.

You can't move the window close/minimize/maximize buttons, even with tweak or gconf config editor.  I can see why:

- Unity cuts out the bottom status line and completely collapses the top bar and the top bar of a window into a single bar on the top of the screen.  Can't hardly move the buttons to the right when the typical network/time/user/power, etc., items are on the right of the top bar.  Obviously this also gives a little more screen space to the application.

However, and I admit this is coming from move years than I care to count on Microsoft products with the buttons on the right, it would seem to me some compromise (short of going back to Gnome) should be work out - perhaps like the ability to completely reverse the order of things on the top bar.  Why?  Yes, I know it's not a purist attitude, but a lot of users have been used to the buttons being on the right for years.  A lot of Microsoft users moving or trying Ubuntu are used to them being on the right.

Even when they are on the left, they aren't all the way to the left.  There's that pesky ubuntu symbol (the one you click on as a short cut to the menus) is there.  The result is that the buttons seem almost hidden.

Perhaps a workable solution might be to move the buttons all the way to the left and moving the ubuntu symbol/clickable to the right hand side of the screen - perhaps just left of the power button.  Just something to more readily isolate the buttons so they are easier for new users to find as well as some of us old guys ;)

Just some thoughts, unless someone already has a solution.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-05-20
I think you may have something wrong because I have no problem moving window buttons with Ubuntu Tweak in 11.04 / Unity . I prefer the left but some of the themes I use place them on the right , so I use UT to move them .

You said Tweak so I'm not sure if you meant this.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-20
Hi, yes ubuntu tweak is a nice tool to have.:D

---

### Post by nerdy_kid on 2011-05-20
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> I think you may have something wrong because I have no problem moving window buttons with Ubuntu Tweak in 11.04 / Unity . I prefer the left but some of the themes I use place them on the right , so I use UT to move them .

You said Tweak so I'm not sure if you meant this.

I think he's saying he can't change the order of the window buttons of maximized windows, because unity integrates the window buttons into the top bar.  I think the button order is hard coded in Unity, but I could be wrong.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-05-20
> **nerdy_kid said:**
> I think he's saying he can't change the order of the window buttons of maximized windows, because unity integrates the window buttons into the top bar.  I think the button order is hard coded in Unity, but I could be wrong.

I was able to change the order on the title bar but not the top panel . I see what you mean . I never maximize so I never noticed .

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-20
Yeah, I probably should have added that's it's when a window is maximized so it places it on the top bar, and tweak makes no difference because of everything on that line and how it has always been layed out. Non-maximized windows do work as always.
 
I can understand the problem - we're gaining real estate on the screen in full screen mode (indeed, usually the idea of full screen mode *IS* to see more on the screen). I would suggest that moving the buttons to the far left and putting a separator in before anything else on the top bar might be a better solution - the buttons wouldn't seem to get "lost" in the line then.
 
EDIT:  I also posted on a launchpad thread about this, and suggested that since there seem to be config processes for almost everything, including gconf for gnome, why not create a Unity configurator, and add options like the order of the top bar on maximized windows, including but not limited to allowing the windows buttons to be on the far left or far right with a separator between them and anything else on the line.  We know Unity is new and is a work in progress.  It's also possible some of this is hard-coded, but hopefully the developers are open to making it configurable (wish I knew enough to help with this).

---

### Post by leftkidney on 2011-05-24
I am having the same problem

stupid as ever, to move the buttons to the left when full screen only

this is one of the major reasons I dont like updates to ui changes, people just dont think these things out correctly because most people new to linux are from windows and the buttons are on the right, but in 10.04 or 10.10 they decided to change that and it was just silly - now full screen windows are always on the left 

how do I put it back to normal?

---

### Post by nerdy_kid on 2011-05-24
> **leftkidney said:**
> I am having the same problem

stupid as ever, to move the buttons to the left when full screen only

this is one of the major reasons I dont like updates to ui changes, people just dont think these things out correctly because most people new to linux are from windows and the buttons are on the right, but in 10.04 or 10.10 they decided to change that and it was just silly - now full screen windows are always on the left 

how do I put it back to normal?

no one complains if its a mac...

---

### Post by beew on 2011-05-24
I don't care whether the buttons are on the left or right as long as they are always on the same side. But still, yet another customization option bites the dust. I really don't see why a few pixels on top is such a big deal they have to break so many things for the stupid global menu. It may make a bit of a difference for netbooks but for laptops and desktops that "desktop real estate" gain is negligible but it creates worse problems elsewhere.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-25
> **nerdy_kid said:**
> no one complains if its a mac...
 
Please forgive me - and I'm only joking around here.  Back in the 80's or early 90's at a place I was doing consulting work at, one of the programmers there asked me:
 
"How many MAC users does it take to screw in a light bulb?"
 
The answer:
 
"Only 1 - the world revolves around them!".
 
 
Sorry - I just couldn't resist passing that along! :)

---

### Post by teramind on 2011-05-29
It is such a bad thing that you need a tweak tool to change the location of these buttons! Ubuntu becomes more and more like Windows. I can't even start a stupid termial. I had to search for minutes to find the system options. That's all very bad, really. 

sorry, but 11.04 is one or two steps back.
kind regards teramind

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-05-29
I hardly think the system settings are hard to find. They are in Applications, or under the session menu. The Terminal is also in Applications, or you can Alt-F2 and type "terminal", or hit Control Alt F1.

The window buttons have been on the left in Ubuntu since 10.04, and in computers since 1984. 99% of Ubuntu users have gotten used to it now and are "ambidextrous" - its time the other 1% put in a couple of days effort and adapted too.

---

### Post by evanct on 2011-05-30
> **3rdalbum said:**
> 99% of Ubuntu users have gotten used to it now

[citation needed]

> **3rdalbum said:**
> its time the other 1% put in a couple of days effort and adapted too.

Who are you to say what the users should do with their own systems?

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-05-30
> **3rdalbum said:**
> I hardly think the system settings are hard to find. They are in Applications, or under the session menu. The Terminal is also in Applications, or you can Alt-F2 and type "terminal", or hit Control Alt F1.

But not directly in 11.04 if you are using Unity.  You need to go into Unity before you get to so-called "Applications"

> The window buttons have been on the left in Ubuntu since 10.04, and in computers since 1984. 99% of Ubuntu users have gotten used to it now and are "ambidextrous" - its time the other 1% put in a couple of days effort and adapted too.

If you watched the forum when the button placement change was made, you would have noticed the many, many, many people who hated it and asked how to move them back to the right.  I don't know where you get your figures, but the vast majority of desktop and home computers out there run Windows (your since 1984 comment) - which side are the buttons on?  99% of Ubuntu users?  I would like to see the facts to back that up - I think you would find that up until 11.04, most moved their buttons back to the right.  11.04 with Unity has presented a set of challenges with the button placement.  Read this thread carefully, then try yourself, and you should see a problem.

If you are using Unity in 11.04, and your window is full screen, you would see what the difficulty is that is being discussed in this thread.

---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-06-04
I guess this thread has run it's course now.  The "problem" still remains - until such time either some sort of config is allowed so that a full screen application, with Unity running, can still move it's windows controls to the right, it will remain.  I don't know if it worth suggesting this to some Unity development person or not.

So, I'll just close this for now.

---

