---
title: "12.04 LTS slower than 10.04 ?"
date: 2012-08-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gscratch on 2012-08-25
This is a brand-new 12.04 installed from CD on a 'plain vanilla' Intel box.  It is exactly the same hardware as was running a 10.04

First question - applications seem to take longer to start up than I was used to with the 10.04.  Applications seem to run as fast, it's just the start up seems to take longer, as does the initial system start.  As I said, there were no hardware changes.  Is this expected behavior?  I can post the complete hardware specs, if necessary
thanks,

---

### Post by nyamina on 2012-08-25
> **gscratch said:**
> This is a brand-new 12.04 installed from CD on a 'plain vanilla' Intel box.  It is exactly the same hardware as was running a 10.04

First question - applications seem to take longer to start up than I was used to with the 10.04.  Applications seem to run as fast, it's just the start up seems to take longer, as does the initial system start.  As I said, there were no hardware changes.  Is this expected behavior?  I can post the complete hardware specs, if necessary
thanks,
Yep, this is totally normal, 12.04 is using Unity, which will take up more resources. On a new laptop, it will be just as fast, but on something a bit older, it will be noticeably slower. However, you could install gnome-panel by pasting ```
sudo apt-get install gnome-panel
``` into the terminal, logging out, and choosing gnome classic (no effects) as your desktop environment (press the little button next to where you enter you password to choose) which should take you back to 10.04 in terms of looks and speed.

---

### Post by RememberWhenItRained on 2012-08-25
what nyamina said. 12.04 runs the Unity enviroment, which is usually more resource intensive. It's normal. That being said, i installed all other major environments such as gnome and LXDE

---

### Post by aarc240 on 2012-08-25
In some ways, yes it is slower, in others the improvement is startling.
Wireless networking is critical to us and 12.04 LTS is a major speed improvement.
Gnome desktop, with or without effects, helps but only once the system is up.

---

### Post by Easy Limits on 2012-08-25
I use 12.04 with Gnome 3 and while Gnome 3 is faster than Unity it is still slower than 10.04 on my machine.

---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2012-08-25
I was about to suggest installing the MATE desktop as that is a fork of the GNOME2 desktop you are used to.

However following the instructions here [http://mate-desktop.org/install/](http://mate-desktop.org/install/) I note the following:

When you get to this stage:
```
sudo apt-get install mate-desktop-environment
```it wants to install apache2.2-bin

Why would a desktop environment want to install the apache web server?

I've installed it and will try it now but I can't think why a DE would need a web server. :/

*edit to add* - I logged into the MATE session and no sign of apache running - but still no idea why the DE wants to install it. It does look a lot like the 10.04 Gnome2 DE but then so does Xubuntu and Lubuntu.

*edit2 to add* - Firefox is very much snappier in the MATE DE.

*edit 3 to add* - it seems the package mate-user-share depends on apache. Apparently mate-user-share is a WebDAV derived way of sharing files between users on a system. Seems a bit unecessary to me in a DE so I removed mate-user-share, apache2.2-bin and libapache2-mod-dnssd.

Just my 2p worth.

---

### Post by Peripheral Visionary on 2012-08-26
I'm a Xubuntu user with a very modest 8 year old Dell. I loved 10.04 and worried that Xubuntu 12.04 would be too much for this aging but wonderful old Dell. I wondered if I would have to switch to Lubuntu or maybe something even more "lightweight."

I'm very pleased to say that Xubuntu 12.04 is every bit as speedy and fast as 10.04 was. Even faster in a few areas.

---

### Post by GusChavez on 2012-08-26
I use [EasyPeasy]("http://www.geteasypeasy.com/") myself on my netbook and it flies. Its based off Ubuntu 10.10 I think and uses the old netbook remix UI.

---

### Post by miskopo on 2012-08-26
Ya, it is sad, but it is really slower, as it is designed for newer machines. YOu can still use you 10.04 Ubuntu, as me, I think it has more advantages than any newer version. If you have problem with software support, like Gimp, VLC, MuseScore etc. just write me, I've installed many of those "unsupported" soft on my machine.

Installing gnome-panel isn't very usefull, at least for me, it didn't work, I've just plain useless panels with no menu, launchers etc,
You can also use KDE-desktop enviroment, but it is also resources-sensitive.

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2012-08-26
Try using Unity 2D, might speed up the loading of your apps.

---

### Post by nyamina on 2012-08-26
I was going to suggest XFCE. If it's good enough for a pissed off Linus Torvalds, then it's good enough for you. Or you could try LXDE actually. I mean, you would have to put real effort into going on Ebay, and really search and hunt for a computer low powered enough that LXDE won't work. I mean LXDE is light, and good looking too. With the Ambiance and Radiance themes, it really does look as good as Gnome 2.

I should say I tried MATE (the Gnome 2 fork) and I hated it. It doesn't look like it's going anywhere, but I could be wrong.

---

### Post by nyamina on 2012-08-26
> **miskopo said:**
> Ya, it is sad, but it is really slower, as it is designed for newer machines. YOu can still use you 10.04 Ubuntu, as me, I think it has more advantages than any newer version. If you have problem with software support, like Gimp, VLC, MuseScore etc. just write me, I've installed many of those "unsupported" soft on my machine.

Installing gnome-panel isn't very usefull, at least for me, it didn't work, I've just plain useless panels with no menu, launchers etc,
You can also use KDE-desktop enviroment, but it is also resources-sensitive.
What, does the new Firefox etc. not work out-of-the-box in 10.04? I didn't know that.

Did you try alt+right click or alt+super+right click on the gnome-panel, btw? I found it a bit funny at first, but it's pretty great now.

---

### Post by gscratch on 2012-08-26
thanks for all the replies; as usual I'm overwhelmed by the responsiveness of this forum

Even though this was a brand-new install from a newly-downloaded ISO, the system had a bunch of updates that it wanted to copy down (I mis-understood when I selected "check for updates during the install" that it would do so *after* I started up and was running; again, ignorance)

the performance is now acceptable, esp reading all the updates here.  I'm going to try to get to know the default system before I make a lot of changes, but I'll keep a bookmark here to all the suggestions.

and, as usual, this one can be closed, as far as I'm concerned.

---

