---
title: "I cannot disconnect external hard drive!"
date: 2010-10-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by paker on 2010-10-19
I used to have an external hard drive connected through eSATA back panel bracket for about a month. Now I cannot disconnect the external HD. If I remove it and start up the PC, it looks for the external HD and hangs a while. Eventually, it pops a message:

/dev/sdb1 does not exist. Dropping to a shell

How can I make the computer forget the external HD?
Thanks.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-10-19
> **paker said:**
> I used to have an external hard drive connected through eSATA back panel bracket for about a month. Now I cannot disconnect the external HD. If I remove it and start up the PC, it looks for the external HD and hangs a while. Eventually, it pops a message:

/dev/sdb1 does not exist. Dropping to a shell

How can I make the computer forget the external HD?
Thanks.
check /etc/fstab

---

### Post by paker on 2010-10-19
> **sandyd said:**
> check /etc/fstab

This is the content of /etc/fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=87faa3e7-33dd-4d96-adc9-78f908912c24 / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=4fc18fca-4d75-424f-b400-9c20f4110e37 /home ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=3053b6f2-1cac-419c-bd25-5bbc51ae4343 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0

---

### Post by paker on 2010-10-19
I just checked System > Administration > Disk Utility. The external hard drive is listed as /dev/sda (the hard drive) and /dev/sda1 (the partition, the only partition), and marked BOOTABLE.

Can I unmark BOOTABLE and APPLY. I am afraid of erasing the data.

Thanks.

---

