---
title: "10.10 - Upgrade to 64 Bit"
date: 2010-12-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Snappa on 2010-12-15
I recently bought a new desktop with 64 bit Win 7 loaded onto it.  Also got the Win 7 DVD.  I've managed to load Ubuntu 10.10 32 bit from a a magazine distro, and now have a dual boot machine.  First experience with Linux; I feel quite proud of myself. :D

Since my PC is obviously capable of using a 64 bit OS (it has 4GB of RAM), how easy would it be for me to upgrade my 10.10 to 64 bit, and what benefits would it give me ?

Thanks for all your help and ideas.

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2010-12-15
Just download and burn a 64 bit CD/DVD and install the 64 bit system.

---

### Post by mr clark25 on 2010-12-15
> **dFlyer said:**
> Just download and burn a 64 bit CD/DVD and install the 64 bit system.

as far as i know, this is the only way to "upgrade" to 64bit.

64bit will use all of your CPUs functionality. you would see a performance gain when doing CPU-intensive tasks.

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2010-12-15
I'd go against the crowd here and say that, while 64-bit would be my choice on that system, I doubt you'd notice much difference in day-to-day usage.

The 32-bit installation discs automatically install the -pae kernel if they detect 4GB+ RAM, so your system can still use the full 4GB without being fully 64-bit

---

### Post by daqron on 2010-12-16
I'd suggest 64-bit. I read up on this a lot when I was deciding what to put on my new box. This is an educational read plus a good reference after installation: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=368607](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=368607).

Installation trouble on 64-bit has been rare, but includes Flash player installation (lots of articles on this now; Google it) , Amazon downloader (use clamz instead), libwebkit (give up), and a few other things that I had to install using 'dpkg --force-architecture' (which apparently is bad but I don't care).

---

### Post by Snappa on 2010-12-16
Thanks guys for all your comments.  I especially like the link from daqron; it's a good read.
For the moment, I'm going to run with my 32 bit 10.10.  If ever I  have the need to reinstall or upgrade, I'll go 64 bit.
Thanks again.

---

