---
title: "8.04 - 'after' hibernate issue"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by nama on 2008-04-28
Hello all,
switched from Win to Ubuntu 7.10 few weeks ago. 
Now, upgraded to 8.04.
After hibernation the machine does not boot:(. Just a black screen:confused:. Have to switch off forcefully by 'power off' button. On 7.10 it worked nicely. On 8.04 not. 
Do you have any suggestion?
Thanks a lot.

---

### Post by Big Luke on 2009-05-26
Well I am pretty sure you have thought of this but I am going to state the obvious anyway...maybe you shouldnt let your computer hibernate...

Maybe you should try upgrading to 8.10 (I think it is their LTS)

Another thing you could do to figure out if it is indeed a problem with Ubuntu or with Ubuntu and your hardware is partition a small space and install ubuntu to it and see if the problem persists.

---

### Post by Celauran on 2009-05-26
> **Big Luke said:**
> Well I am pretty sure you have thought of this but I am going to state the obvious anyway...maybe you shouldnt let your computer hibernate...

Maybe you should try upgrading to 8.10 (I think it is their LTS)

Another thing you could do to figure out if it is indeed a problem with Ubuntu or with Ubuntu and your hardware is partition a small space and install ubuntu to it and see if the problem persists.

8.04 is the LTS, not 8.10. Also, if he didn't have the problem with 7.10, it seems pretty unlikely that it's a hardware issue. I'm afraid I don't have a solution, though. I've given up even trying to get my laptop to shutdown.

---

### Post by chrisod on 2009-05-26
Check this thread.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1168999](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1168999)

---

### Post by Big Luke on 2009-05-26
> **Celauran said:**
> 8.04 is the LTS, not 8.10. Also, if he didn't have the problem with 7.10, it seems pretty unlikely that it's a hardware issue. I'm afraid I don't have a solution, though. I've given up even trying to get my laptop to shutdown.

The only reason I mentione harware was because I have heard of certain builds not working with certain hardware...If I was to take a guess I would guess that this is your problem...

If I were you...I would update to [Jaunty]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyJackalope")...it might fix your problem...

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-05-26
Well, before just going at a hardware issue, I would check some other things:  

- what is your main memory size?
- what is your swap file size?
- what video chipset is your PC using?
- have you seen some of the other posts where they change a setting in a file (I'd have to look again to see what) to enable video after hibernation?
- what things, if any, have you tried?

Dave :)

---

