---
title: "12.04 Screen freeze when lid is closed."
date: 2014-01-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by matthew.carnovale on 2014-01-16
Hey All,

I'll preface this with the fact that I'm only a few weeks old when it comes to Linux, so I'm probably going to need some step-by-step action here (not related to the 90s sitcom). As mentioned in the title, I've been facing an issue where my screen is frozen on a blank screen when I close my laptop.  After searching the forum, I saw that this could be related to my power settings, but they're set to "do nothing" when the lid is close regardless of being on battery power or plugged in. To try else, I locked screen and closed my laptop only to find that I was now faced with a frozen lock screen with mouse functionality--what?! I'm using a macbook 5.1 under Ubuntu 12.04.

Any ideas on how to remedy this?

---

### Post by spencer the great on 2014-01-17
Try uninstalling gnome-screensaver and installing xscreensaver, I've heard and experienced that gnome-screensaver causes a lot of problems.

---

### Post by nilla78ro on 2014-01-17
There's been a known issue with the stock Ubuntu kernel where the computer locks up when the screen dims or shuts off. The recommendation has been to upgrade the kernel to 3.4 if you want to be able to dim/turn off your screen. If you don't care, then you can simply disable the settings to turn off your screen in the power management and display settings areas.

---

### Post by matthew.carnovale on 2014-01-18
Hmm, so the kernal I'm using is 3.8.0-35-generic. Is that the one known to cause a problem? I would like to be able to close my laptop and open it to return to my work without it freezing. The only way to get out of the freeze is a hard shut down which makes me shutter every time. Also I've already tried to disable the settings to turn off your screen in the power management and display settings areas, it doesn't change stop the screen from freezing.

---

### Post by matthew.carnovale on 2014-01-19
> **spencer the great said:**
> Try uninstalling gnome-screensaver and installing xscreensaver, I've heard and experienced that gnome-screensaver causes a lot of problems.

Hey Spencer,

Could I get you to give me a step by step on how to do that? I'm very new to all things Linux and it would be a huge help.

Thanks again for the reply!

---

### Post by spencer the great on 2014-01-20
```
$ sudo apt-get remove gnome-screensaver
$ sudo apt-get install xscreensaver
```
And start the screensaver daemon (or whatever else you call something running in the background):
```
$ xscreensaver
```

To undo what you have just done:
```
$ sudo apt-get remove xscreensaver
$ sudo apt-get install gnome-screensaver
```

If xscreensaver is already installed, you can probably get away with just:
```
$ killall gnome-screensaver
$ xscreensaver
```
Which kills the gnome screensaver and starts the x11 screensaver.

---

