---
title: "Failed to start load kernel modules"
date: 2016-05-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by matti123456 on 2016-05-26
> ' systemctl status systemd-modules-load.service' for details.

I found couple of forum posts about similar problems and and managed to pin point the file that is causing problems.

There is two files in /etc/modules-load.d cups-filters.conf and modules.conf, second one is the troublemaker.

Content of modules.conf:
> # /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

# Generated by sensors-detect on Sat May 21 20:32:26 2016
# Chip drivers
it87

I also ran [I]systemctl status -l systemd-modules-load.service.

```
systemd-modules-load.service - Load Kernel Modules
   Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/systemd-modules-load.service; static; vendor preset: enabled)
   Active: failed (Result: exit-code) since to 2016-05-26 11:46:33 EEST; 5min ago
     Docs: man:systemd-modules-load.service(8)
           man:modules-load.d(5)
  Process: 255 ExecStart=/lib/systemd/systemd-modules-load (code=exited, status=1/FAILURE)
 Main PID: 255 (code=exited, status=1/FAILURE)

Warning: Journal has been rotated since unit was started. Log output is incomplete or unavailable.
```

[/I]Not sure what to do next.

Edit: Could i just delete the modules.conf file?

---

### Post by matti123456 on 2016-05-26
Also there are two serious errors that i suspect are related to this.

I cant access Windows partions.

> Unable to access &#8220;126 GB Volume&#8221;

Error mounting /dev/sda1 at /media/matti/EE60FEA560FE73A5: Command-line `mount -t "ntfs" -o "uhelper=udisks2,nodev,nosuid,uid=1000,gid=1000" "/dev/sda1" "/media/matti/EE60FEA560FE73A5"' exited with non-zero exit status 14: Windows is hibernated, refused to mount.
Failed to mount '/dev/sda1': Toiminto ei ole sallittu
The NTFS partition is in an unsafe state. Please resume and shutdown
Windows fully (no hibernation or fast restarting), or mount the volume
read-only with the 'ro' mount option.

And i cant access my Hotmail in Thunderbird.

> The current operation on 'inbox' did not succeed. The mail server for account [EMAIL="asdasd@asdlas.ds"]asdasd@asdlas.ds[/EMAIL] responded:
Select command is not permitted in current state (NotAuthenticatedServerError)

---

