---
title: "14.04 very slow with 50% use of resources"
date: 2015-01-22
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Stevenukas on 2015-01-22
From what I understand, it should work much more faster. What I have came across,people are having issues with really old laptop/desktop computers, so this should not be the issue, really dont know were to start looking at. 
[ATTACH=CONFIG]259414[/ATTACH]
Intel® Core™ i5-4210U CPU @ 1.70GHz × 4 ,3,7 GiB,  64-bit, ubuntu 14.04,

---

### Post by coldraven on 2015-01-22
I would have thought that installing Windows **was** a fairly intensive operation.
My six year old dual core laptop boots 14.04 in about 34 seconds and will resume from suspend with wifi working in about three seconds.
To me, that is fast!

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-01-22
So - you are running some virtualization software and expect it to use less resources?

---

### Post by Stevenukas on 2015-01-22
> **TheFu said:**
> So - you are running some virtualization software and expect it to use less resources?

I do not expect to use less resources, what I expect, is not to lag so much, to the point, where it takes 20s to open calculator. On the regular use, it also lags and laptop is in use of 10% according to the resources. 

> **coldraven said:**
> I would have thought that installing Windows **was** a fairly intensive operation.
My six year old dual core laptop boots 14.04 in about 34 seconds and  will resume from suspend with wifi working in about three seconds.
To me, that is fast!
 
Thats good speed compared to mine, I just tried to reboot, took 2min 18s, so at least a minute to boot up ;)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-01-22
Excellent. Some facts we can use. 
Have you checked the log files for warnings/errors?
Any hw failures showing up?

When you look at the process table, what is eating all the CPU?
Which DE are you running?
How is memory being used - no swap or lots of swap?
I/O wait? None or lots?

For the VM, did you pre-allocate the entire storage first? Unless the VM is on SSD, this is a huge performance hit for VMs, especially has they expand storage.  I found a pre-allocated install was 14 min, but a sparse file allocation was almost 60 min a few years ago.  For tuning virtual machines there are many techniques. If that is the issue - please post the details in the virtualization subforum.

My VMs generally boot in 1-10 seconds.

On desktops, well, it isn't a fair comparison. My normal desktop runs inside a VM, doesn't use Unity and is accessed using x2go over the network from anywhere.  My netbook desktop also doesn't use Unity, but because the storage is encrypted, the boot and coming out of standbye/hibernate take 3+ minutes. After that, it runs like any other openbox WM desktop.

I understand that if you run Unity, the default Ubuntu desktop, then the CPU, RAM and GPU matter greatly. Having the correct 3D-accelerated GPU drivers is very important to Unity happiness, even on relatively slower machines.  Ran Unity for a few hours here on a 4yr old Atom-like APU (AMD E350) here. It was slightly slower than I expected, but not so bad. That box is an XMBC and Plex server today handling 1080p videos daily thanks to working GPU drivers.

Anyway, hopefully some of this prose and questions will be helpful towards a solution.

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2015-01-22
I have a 7 year old Lenovo laptop, with a dual core **32-bit Pentium** with pre-Sandy Bridge graphics, running Ubuntu MATE 14.04.1, and it not only worked "out of the box," but it runs very well indeed. Yeah, there are some Steam games it won't run, or which run at a snail's pace, but it IS a 7-year old computer.

Rather than virtualization, you'd get the most speed and full memory, etc., from a dual boot. First, **defrag** the C: drive, since Windows places files all over the place, and select "Install Ubuntu beside Windows." The GRUB boot screen will default to running Ubuntu, but you'll have the opportunity to select Windows from that screen. "Best" of both worlds(?).

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-01-22
@rocker - he has a Core i5. Virtualization is the best answer for anything besides gaming. Convenience of accessing both OSes concurrently is a good thing.   1.5G RAM for each OS is fine for almost any desktop task.  Not to mention the added flexibility that virtual machines bring for many other uses.

Even on a Core 2 Duo, I'd still go with virtualization - actually I have. 

Dual boot is dangerous to the existing OS.  I've never seen a virtual boot trash grub on the main OS. 
Not once.  I have had to rebuild grub on a dual boot box here a few times in the last 12 months, thanks to MSFT patches which broke the Linux boot.

If I ran high-end Windows games, I'd might dual boot (actually I wouldn't - I'd have a dedicated gaming machine).  Even on my Celeron netbook, low end games work great inside dosbox.

Anyway, just a different opinion about virtualization. Doubt that is the root issue for the OP.

---

### Post by Stevenukas on 2015-01-22
Thank you for your input fellas, I do have dual boot, seems to work fine, I do not get any errors on the load, will have to figure out how to check and see if there are any errors on my system,as I am using linux for few weeks only. I need Windows for Adobe Photoshop, that's the only reason I am installing or have a dual boot, otherwise I would have cursed windows long ago. Why I don't want to continue using a dual boot ? Because I have 22" monitor connected, one screen is win other is linux, makes much easier to work,than rebooting every now and then. Since we started talking about dual boot, might it be,that I have did something installing ubuntu and its lagging ?

---

### Post by Stevenukas on 2015-01-24
Best solution ? Whipe everything out and start from scratch again ;) installing windows and its works without a glitch. Might be that I was having dual boot and something went wrong there ;)

---

