---
title: "{16.04} ['auth'] how to authenticate when installing using the 'software updater'"
date: 2016-11-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-21
i put in the user password and it doesn't work

then the 'auth' popup disappears after i keep failing

then i try installing again and it works and doesn't show the 'auth' popup

why?

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-21
* ask any questions to clarify anything!

---

### Post by Geoffrey_Arndt on 2016-11-22
Your question is hard to understand, because you have put the absolute minimum effort into writing a coherent English sentence and explaining the "context".   

For example, are you referring to the initial password creation process that is a part of installing Ubuntu?   Or are you referring to an installation that is working fine, but when "authentication" is needed such as installing a package; . . it is at that point you the problem occurs?

Remember, Linux (unlike Windows) requires proper "case" consistency.  For example:   The password Peckerwood and peckerwood are totally different.

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2016-11-22
> **Geoffrey_Arndt said:**
> Your question is hard to understand, because you have put the absolute minimum effort into writing a coherent English sentence and explaining the "context".   <---snip--->
This^^^

I'd suggest you have a read at this sticky: [Suggestions on how to get your support questions answered as quickly as possible]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422475")

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-22
* good answerers would ask clarifying questions 
* new users have no idea what this means --> "[COLOR=#000000]For example, are you referring to the initial password creation process that is a part of installing Ubuntu? Or are you referring to an installation that is working fine, but when "authentication" is needed such as installing a package; "

* problem solved -- and extra context is there --> [/COLOR][https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342236&p=13573584#post13573584](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342236&p=13573584#post13573584)

--

all i know is question has enough context

it's some of the mods fault cos they 1) make you ask questions in separate threads

even though the questions i asked were all related

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-11-22
If you have a problem with the actions of the Moderators, the place to address that is the Resolution Centre.

And yes, you were asked to put questions about different matters in different threads.  That is for ***your*** benefit.

---

