---
title: "Sensor problems (monitor cpu temp)"
date: 2010-08-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by dominatorv8 on 2010-08-26
Hello,

I have just installed Ubuntu 10.04 and I'm just trying to get everything set up. I want to be able to monitor the temperature of my cpu just to be safe. 

I downloaded and installed "Xsensors" but when I opened it there was no display. I done a bit of research so I run the command "sudo sensors-detect" choose the default options and it then wrote to the file etc/modules. it rote this:

# Generated by sensors-detect on Thu Aug 26 14:42:34 2010
# Chip drivers
f71882fg

I then rebooted my system but when I run the command "sensors" it says "no sensors found" 

So now I am stuck, I am thinking the sensor I have is not supported but I'm really not sure. 

Here is the output from "sensors-detect"

patrick@Patrick-Desktop:~$ sudo sensors-detect
# sensors-detect revision 5818 (2010-01-18 17:22:07 +0100)
# System: MICRO-STAR INTERNATIONAL CO.,LTD MS-7583
# Board: MICRO-STAR INTERNATIONAL CO.,LTD P55-GD65 (MS-7583)

This program will help you determine which kernel modules you need
to load to use lm_sensors most effectively. It is generally safe
and recommended to accept the default answers to all questions,
unless you know what you're doing.

Some south bridges, CPUs or memory controllers contain embedded sensors.
Do you want to scan for them? This is totally safe. (YES/no): YES
Silicon Integrated Systems SIS5595...                       No
VIA VT82C686 Integrated Sensors...                          No
VIA VT8231 Integrated Sensors...                            No
AMD K8 thermal sensors...                                   No
AMD Family 10h thermal sensors...                           No
AMD Family 11h thermal sensors...                           No
Intel Core family thermal sensor...                         No
Intel Atom thermal sensor...                                No
Intel AMB FB-DIMM thermal sensor...                         No
VIA C7 thermal sensor...                                    No
VIA Nano thermal sensor...                                  No

Some Super I/O chips contain embedded sensors. We have to write to
standard I/O ports to probe them. This is usually safe.
Do you want to scan for Super I/O sensors? (YES/no): YES
Probing for Super-I/O at 0x2e/0x2f
Trying family `National Semiconductor'...                   No
Trying family `SMSC'...                                     No
Trying family `VIA/Winbond/Nuvoton/Fintek'...               No
Trying family `ITE'...                                      No
Probing for Super-I/O at 0x4e/0x4f
Trying family `National Semiconductor'...                   No
Trying family `SMSC'...                                     No
Trying family `VIA/Winbond/Nuvoton/Fintek'...               Yes
Found `Fintek F71889FG Super IO Sensors'                    Success!
    (address 0xa00, driver `f71882fg')

Some systems (mainly servers) implement IPMI, a set of common interfaces
through which system health data may be retrieved, amongst other things.
We first try to get the information from SMBIOS. If we don't find it
there, we have to read from arbitrary I/O ports to probe for such
interfaces. This is normally safe. Do you want to scan for IPMI
interfaces? (YES/no): YES
Probing for `IPMI BMC KCS' at 0xca0...                      No
Probing for `IPMI BMC SMIC' at 0xca8...                     No

Some hardware monitoring chips are accessible through the ISA I/O ports.
We have to write to arbitrary I/O ports to probe them. This is usually
safe though. Yes, you do have ISA I/O ports even if you do not have any
ISA slots! Do you want to scan the ISA I/O ports? (yes/NO): YES
Probing for `National Semiconductor LM78' at 0x290...       No
Probing for `National Semiconductor LM79' at 0x290...       No
Probing for `Winbond W83781D' at 0x290...                   No
Probing for `Winbond W83782D' at 0x290...                   No

Lastly, we can probe the I2C/SMBus adapters for connected hardware
monitoring devices. This is the most risky part, and while it works
reasonably well on most systems, it has been reported to cause trouble
on some systems.
Do you want to probe the I2C/SMBus adapters now? (YES/no): YES
Found unknown SMBus adapter 8086:3b30 at 0000:00:1f.3.
Sorry, no supported PCI bus adapters found.
Module i2c-dev loaded successfully.

Now follows a summary of the probes I have just done.
Just press ENTER to continue: 

Driver `f71882fg':
  * ISA bus, address 0xa00
    Chip `Fintek F71889FG Super IO Sensors' (confidence: 9)

To load everything that is needed, add this to /etc/modules:
#----cut here----
# Chip drivers
f71882fg
#----cut here----
If you have some drivers built into your kernel, the list above will
contain too many modules. Skip the appropriate ones!

I tried this a couple of times just to see if anything changed, but to avail. Thanks in advance for any replies. 

Patrick

---

### Post by dgaud on 2010-09-14
I had the same problem with my new MSI 785GM-E51. Here is how I just fixed it (I think). 
1. Go [[COLOR="Red"]here[/COLOR]]("http://khali.linux-fr.org/devel/misc/f71882fg/") and download and/or copy - paste into text files the c source file and the makefile.
2. Make sure the Makefile is named exactly Makefile.
3. From a terminal run:

```
$ sudo make
$ cp f71882fg.ko /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/kernel/drivers/hwmon
$ depmod
$ sudo modprobe f71882fg
```

If you see no errors, try the sensors command and see what happens. Otherwise [[COLOR="Red"]here[/COLOR]]("http://www.lm-sensors.org/wiki/Devices") it is stated that kernel support for this mobo is available from 2.6.33 and on...

---

### Post by dominatorv8 on 2010-09-14
Thanks for your answer, I will give that a try and let you know how it goes right now it is just quite late :D

---

### Post by dgaud on 2010-09-19
I just updated to the new kernel 2.6.32.24 and the f71882fg module was no loner recognized. I repeated the make process from source, and is working again. I still haven't checked the accuracies. I noticed that temp2 is showing a fault:
```

k10temp-pci-00c3
Adapter: PCI adapter
temp1:       +42.5°C  (high = +70.0°C)                  

f71889fg-isa-0e80
Adapter: ISA adapter
in0:         +1.67 V
in1:         +1.38 V  (max =  +2.04 V)   
in2:         +1.10 V
in3:         +0.89 V
in4:         +0.66 V
in5:         +0.44 V
in6:         +0.34 V
in7:         +1.66 V
in8:         +1.62 V
fan1:       4424 RPM
fan2:          0 RPM  ALARM
fan3:       1347 RPM
temp1:       +29.0°C  (high = +255.0°C, hyst = +251.0°C)  
                      (crit = +255.0°C, hyst = +251.0°C)  sensor = Intel PECI
temp2:         FAULT  (high = +255.0°C, hyst = +251.0°C)  
                      (crit = +255.0°C, hyst = +251.0°C)  sensor = transistor
temp3:       +34.0°C  (high = +255.0°C, hyst = +253.0°C)  
                      (crit = +255.0°C, hyst = +253.0°C)  sensor = transistor
```

---

### Post by dominatorv8 on 2010-11-09
Apologies for the very late reply, what you recommend done the trick :)
I am also getting a fault on temp 2. Using xSensors i am getting a reading of 128 C although every thing else is fine. 

Thanks a lot for your help 
Patrick

---

### Post by I_ated_it on 2012-04-15
I realize this thread is two years old but Im having some issues.  My temp sensors (k10temp-pci-00c3) dont seem to be working as the widget always displays 32 and sensors displays:

```
sensors
k10temp-pci-00c3
Adapter: PCI adapter
temp1:         +0.0°C  (high = +70.0°C)


```Now I know Ive had some problems with my system overheating recently (freezes and restarts) but the sensor always shows the same temp.  Today I applied some new thermal compound to my cpu and it seemed to fix the problem, but Id like to get my sensor problem fixed just to be certain.

Following the instructions in this thread I get the following error with the last step

```
FATAL: Error inserting f71882fg 
(/lib/modules/3.0.0-17-generic/kernel/drivers/hwmon/f71882fg.ko)
:Device or resource busy

```Any ideas?

---

