---
title: "Startup problem with 8.04"
date: 2009-11-17
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Kanaria on 2009-11-17
Hello, friends. 


I was given this computer with Ubuntu already on it, so the only real experience I have is with using it, not installing or anything...I'm not entirely tech'tarded, though.


When I first received it, on our first startup, it was temperamental.

It powered on normally, went through the motions of loading up, and then went to a black screen instead of bringing up the login screen.

The only way to get past this is to turn it off manually, and try again. 
Usually, it would work on the second time loading.
It goes to that black screen, but then it will show my cursor and bring  me the login screen a few seconds later.


That started in September. 
I had hoped it wouldn't get worse, and decided to be patient.
I thought this might just be my machine needing to warm up, as it's a compilation of rather old recycled parts.


Today, I had to do this literally for 25 minutes before it finally worked for me. 
Once, it even decided to tease me by bringing up my cursor before going to black. 
I'm all for patience with old machines, but this is ridiculous. I'm afraid to turn it off, that it might not want to turn back on again.

I know it's not my monitor, which is what a few people have suggested, because that's just stupid. 


How can I help my system start without problems?

Any advice you could give would be* immensely *appreciated. 

Thank you for your time, and consideration of my problem.

---

### Post by jbrown96 on 2009-11-17
Could you post the output of the following commands, so we can understand your system better? Go to Apps-->Accessories-->Terminal then ```
lspci
``` ```
uname -r
``` ```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` When you post them here please put the text in a box > like this It's the text bubble on the top.

---

### Post by Kanaria on 2009-11-17
Wow, I wasn't  expecting a reply so suddenly. <3


> 
voguee@freekbox:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
EndSection



---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-11-17
please post this code
```
lspci
```

thanks

I'm betting its the graphics card or motherboard. parts do fail

---

### Post by Kanaria on 2009-11-17
> 00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE/PE DRAM Controller/Host-Hub Interface (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-M) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev 82)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL (ICH4/ICH4-L) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801DB (ICH4) IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) SMBus Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.5 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 02)
01:09.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4401 100Base-T (rev 01)


.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2009-11-17
> **Kanaria said:**
> .
unless im mistaken, that a reaaalllyy old card.
however, i **will** point you towards here.
[https://launchpad.net/~intel-gfx-testing/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~intel-gfx-testing/+archive/ppa)
add that ppa to your sources and install xserver-xorg-video-intel

---

### Post by yanceypd on 2009-11-17
It might be the power supply.  Sometimes they get weak (low voltage/current) and won't spin up the hard drives.  You could swap one out of another system for test.  If thats it they aren't too expensive. Just an idea.

---

### Post by jbrown96 on 2009-11-17
I generally recommend upgrading to the current version of Ubuntu (9.10) because the development pace is very fast, and lots of issues get fixed over time. Let's take a look at the facts:
1) you just got this computer, so you probably don't have any data on it, or any programs that you installed. 
2) you don't really know how to fix the problems
3) it's not readily clear what the problem is to us

We can extend this thread on for a long time (and I'm certainly willing if you want to), but we probably won't get the computer working that well. You'll spend a few hours trying to fix it. On the other hand, you can download 9.10, burn it (or copy to USB), and install it in probably less than an hour. That's what I recommend. 

I don't think it's a hardware issue. It wouldn't make any sense for problems to always occur when the GUI starts. 

If you do want to do a clean install, post back here. I'll help you through it.

---

### Post by Kanaria on 2009-11-18
> **jbrown96 said:**
> 
I don't think it's a hardware issue. It wouldn't make any sense for problems to always occur when the GUI starts. 

If you do want to do a clean install, post back here. I'll help you through it.

I think you're right about it probably not being a hardware issue, because it's absolutely perfect otherwise, once it decides to work properly.

A clean install sounds like the best option. The only programs I've been able to install on here were from the Add/Remove thing in Applications, so it shouldn't be a problem to re-get them.  I may  need help in knowing exactly what needs to be done before I do it, though.

Thank you so much for your  help, everyone~

---

