---
title: "13.10 64bit dragging system performance down."
date: 2013-10-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by geemac2 on 2013-10-21
Hello,
I'm not new to Linux in general, smart enough to get around things, but at times stupid enough to mess things up.  And on occasion, a bit thick headed.  It's probably an old age thing here...  I also do online support for a virtual world gaming company, so please excuse the long winded detailed information.  Old habits, and also saves the extra questions.

I have been using 12.04 LTS 64bit for some time now on my system with absolutely no issues at all for my HTPC running XBMC and other multimedia packages.  I have had good frame rates, excelent 1080P video and great 5.1 surround sound.  I also have used 13.04 for the HTPC and it works as well as 12.04 LTS. 
So waiting for Thursday to come along for the new release, I thought I would try out a clean install of Ubuntu 13.10 on my HTPC.  It was not an issue cleaning out everything so this was a fresh GParted drive and a new install via DVD.
The specs are below on my system.

Here is my issue...
After a speedy install of Ubuntu 13.10 with all the appropriate updates and settings, selecting the  drivers for my Nvidia chipset, the system becomes unusable with the video tearing and slowing the system down to the point of having to press the reset button since I can't find the Gear to shut down.  Moving the mouse around also adds to the tearing.  I have also used Ctrl+Alt+F1 to get out of the issue.  I have never had this issue on this system with any Linux package. I also have tested this with the installed drivers and not activate anything.

My next install ( I went through many) was 12.04 LTS 64bit and 13.10 64bit as a dual boot.  Again I find that 12.04 (with all updates) is working perfect.  I then reboot to 13.10 and the system again becomes unusable with video issues.  If I click on the Dash Home button (if I can see it) it then locks the system up. 
Now most would say, just use 12.04 or 13.04 if they work for you.  The issue is that I also do testing for the gaming software.  That will be another post.

Any help in this matter would be greatly appreacated.

Thank You and TC

P.S.  If this has been posted in the wrong area can someone move it to the appropriate place.

-----------------------------------------


[SIZE=1]**HTPC System Info:**
 **Processor: ** AMD Athlon(tm) 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 4000+ × 2 
 **Memory: **4GiB  (new Corsair memory)
 **Graphics:** GeForce 7050 PV / nForce 630a/integrated/SSE2 (works excelent for a HTPC)
 **OS Type:** Ubuntu 12.04 64-bit (or 13.04)
 **Disk:** 320 GB
 **DVB: ** AVerTVHD MCE A180
 **Remote: **ATI Usb RF wireless remote  ( Remote Wonder)
 **Keyboard/Mouse:** Wireless
System formerly a Captiveworks 4000   ATSC Terrestrial and DVB-S Satellite HTPC (until they folded)[/SIZE]

---

### Post by geemac2 on 2013-10-22
Hello again
This looks to be [COLOR=#008000]*[SIZE=3]**Solved**[/SIZE]*[/COLOR]...  

I spoke to a Dev. in our group and the Nouveau driver was mentioned.
I was able to get the tearing and other issues to stop long enough to acces the Drivers section.  I switched to the Nividia 304 driver and rebooted.  For now all is well.
My suggestion to the devs of Saucy, do not default to the new developed driver.  It does not play well with [SIZE=1]the onboard video GeForce 7050 PV / nForce 630a chipset.

TC[/SIZE]

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-10-22
Good, please mark the thread solved using 'thread tools'.

---

