---
title: "10.04 install question"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by h2009 on 2010-05-09
I have installed Ubuntu 10.04 (Dual boot with windows) and now I am trying to install the Edubuntu supplements, which I have on DVD. I can get the File Browser to open the Edubuntu DVD, and I see several folders like casper, dists, install, isolinux. But I don't know how to install the edubuntu desktop add-on. 

My next attempt at loading the DVD gives me a dialog with "Start Package Manager" so I clicked that but then Synaptic Package Manager opens and I don't see any Edubuntu-related packages. The dialog did not have "Start Add-on Installer" button as appears in the Getting Started Edubuntu online documentation. But those docs are for 8.10. Is there a way I can get Ubuntu to recognize the Edubuntu DVD as an "add-on" instead of just packages?

In summary, I would like to load the full Edubuntu 10.04 education environment and desktop on Ubuntu 10.04.
Any suggestions appreciated.

---

### Post by linuxman94 on 2010-05-09
Straight from the edubuntu website:

> Edubuntu 9.04 brings new application bundles that group educational software by grade level. You can install from the Education category in the "Add/Remove..." entry in the Applications menu or installing the following packages using your favorite package manager:

    * ubuntu-edu-preschool - Preschool ( < 5 years old) educational application bundle
    * ubuntu-edu-primary - Primary ( ages 6-12) educational application bundle
    * ubuntu-edu-secondary - Secondary ( ages 13-18) educational application bundle
    * ubuntu-edu-tertiary - Tertiary ( university level ) educational application bundle


So if you want to install the packages for the Primary level you would open up synaptic package manager (system -> administration -> synaptic package manager) and search for ubuntu-edu-primary and mark it for install.

If you would like all of the packages, simply install edubuntu-desktop.

---

### Post by h2009 on 2010-05-10
Thanks for the suggestions. 
I am still unsuccessful. Here are the things I tried:
1. Clicked the Applications menu, but I don't see an option for "Add/Remove..."
2. Clicked system -> administration -> synaptic package manager, then looked for "ubuntu-edu-primary" among the list of packages and it is not there. I'm not sure if synaptic is reading the Edubuntu DVD in my drive d:, so in synaptic I tried Edit, add CD-ROM, and it says "Please insert a disc in the drive" then I click [OK] and I get the error "e: failed to mount the CD-ROM". My DVD is in drive d:, so is there a way to point synaptic to drive d?

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2010-05-10
What happens if you do

```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-edu-primary

```in the terminal?

Make sure you have the Universe repository enabled in Software Sources.
.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2010-05-10
> **h2009 said:**
> 
1. Clicked the Applications menu, but I don't see an option for "Add/Remove..."

What used to be "Add/Remove..." is now "Ubuntu Software Centre"

> 
2. Clicked system -> administration -> synaptic package manager, then looked for "ubuntu-edu-primary" among the list of packages and it is not there.

The Edubuntu packages are the Universe repo, so in Synaptic go to Packages > Repositories and make sure you've got Universe checked, then reload your sources.

---

### Post by h2009 on 2010-05-10
universe is checked as one of the repositories.
When I reload, I get an error "could not resolve us.archive.ubuntu.com"
But this computer I'm trying to install Edubuntu on is not connected to the Internet. Can I install the Edubuntu files from the local DVD (on drive d:) without having to connect to the Internet?

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2010-05-10
Right. Try to add the CD-ROM in Software Sources rather than Synaptic.

.

---

### Post by mkrkarthi on 2010-05-11
I think Edubuntu 10.04 is released as a full installation disc, instead of addon cd.
When I am booting from this DVD it shows normal menu as like ubuntu installation disc. 
Install Edubuntu..
Try without installing.. etc.,

Also, wubi (install inside windows) not available in this disc.

Automatically Edubuntu disc will be added to list of software package sources..
You can select required packages from synaptic package manager..
Click source button in the synaptic package manager
Then select Edubuntu 10.04 from the left side list..
Now, you can see the list of packages available in this Edubuntu DVD..

---

### Post by mkrkarthi on 2010-05-16
Download and Install the package **apt-offline **through snaptic package manager or download it from packages.ubuntu.com.
*(It is better to have at-least limited INTERNET connectivity such as GPRS or dial up connection to update package list in Snaptic Package manager)*
1) Mark Edubuntu for installing in Snaptic Package manager
2) Do not click apply, Choose File --> Generate package download script
3) Save the markings in to a separate folder
4) Copy this folder to USB drive or CD
5) Then copy the folder to system or run directly the install script if it is in USB stick on a computer which has Internet connection *(script runs only on linux OS. To download from windows system I have another solution)*
6) Now all the packages will be downloaded to the folder
7) Now select File-->Add Downloaded packages in snaptic package manager from your computer and add select the downloaded folder. 
8) Now, click install. That's all.
In that way I installed both Kubuntu and Edubuntu.

---

