---
title: "xserver resolution config Sorely discouraged.  Please help."
date: 2008-10-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by DyBurke on 2008-10-04
Specs:
Gateway MT6723
Graphics Card: Intel GMA X3100
15.4-inch WXGA Ultrabright&#8482; TFT active matrix color display
1280x800 32-bit

FOR THOSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO READ LESS:
I need to be able to specify what graphics card I have and the resolution I would like it to run at.  I tried to do that and it booted me into "low graphics mode".  I'm not sure what I did wrong.  I would also like compiz-fusion to work, but until I get my resolution fixed, that doesn't really matter.

I don't know if it's just my ignorance not allowing me to see the simple answer, but I expected more from linux.  I originally wanted to get compiz working but the Appearance Preferences wouldn't allow me to set the effects any higher than none. I also wanted to get gdm to display my login screen in the correct resolution, but couldn't find any config files that would effect it.  I figured the Appearance Preferences problem was the reason why I couldn't get compiz to do anything.  I ran compiz-check (while in xfce just because I was checking it out at the time) and got:

> 
:~$ ./compiz-check 

Gathering information about your system...

Distribution: Ubuntu 8.04
Desktop environment: Xfce
Graphics chip: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
Driver in use: intel
Rendering method: None

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system... [SKIP]

Checking for hardware/setup problems... [SKIP]

At least one check had to be skipped:
Error: No rendering method in use (AIGLX, Xgl or Nvidia)


So I began searching on the internet to find out all the specifications of my laptop (listed at the top of this post).  I then looked for all the config files I might need to edit.  The only one that really looked like worth editing was xorg.conf.  I would post what I had, but it's now mutalated.  I tried to set what my graphics card and monitor are suppose to display and instead, when I restarted the xserver, it put ubuntu in a "low graphics mode" where it asked me if I wanted to configure the xserver.  I chose to configure it and looked through the lists for my hardware; it wasn't there.  I asked for it to detect my hardware and it gave me a plug 'n play monitor and a vesa driver.  Unfortunately I allowed it to roll with that choice.  What a horrible choice it was. Here is the current config file:

> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	640	480
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device2"
	Boardname	"VESA driver (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:1"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	0
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen2"
	Device		"device2"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor2"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor2"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection


I re-ran compiz-check just because it gave me some decent information last time and this is what I got:

> 

Gathering information about your system...

 Distribution:          Ubuntu 8.04
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
 Driver in use:         vesa
 Rendering method:      None

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...  [SKIP]

 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [SKIP]

At least one check had to be skipped:
 Error: No rendering method in use (AIGLX, Xgl or Nvidia) 

Would you like to know more? (Y/n) y

 The vesa driver is not capable of running Compiz, you need to install the
 proper driver for your graphics card. 




My entire computer is running in the worst resolution I've seen in years.  I was fairly certain that the proper driver for my system was installed, which begs the question, why can't gdm just use that resolution?!  I've looked everywhere for a setting.  Some people on these forums said that gdm uses the resolutions in the xorg.conf file, however, there weren't any specified resolutions in my xorg.conf file.  It said things like "Configured Monitor Device" in place of any actual hardware name.  Hence me trying to manually set it all up.  My other question is durring the "low graphics mode" "wizard" it asked if I wanted to configure the xserver and I ended up clicking "Detect", so if the right driver was installed why in the world would linux not be able to detect the right settings?  I find that a little ridiculous I hope that someone comes along and tells me how stupid I am and why, because that's really the only thing that's going to make me feel any less dissapointed in linux right now.

Thanks in advance to any who post.  If you need more information, simply ask for it; I would be glad to provide it.

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2008-10-04
well firstly you have you xorg.conf set to 640*480.

secondly have you tried reconfiguring xconf with

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

?

---

### Post by DyBurke on 2008-10-05
> **shifty_powers said:**
> well firstly you have you xorg.conf set to 640*480.

secondly have you tried reconfiguring xconf with

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

?

My xorg file says that for god knows what reason.  I set it to something much different, but upon telling the xserver to detect the correct settings itself it made those changes.  However, the "Screen Resolutions" option in the menu System>Preferences says that my resolution is 800x600.

Why would my computer be set to a resolution that isn't in the xorg conf file?  Is there another conf file I'm not aware of?

I tried your command, but it yeilded no results.  The output was:

```

xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20081004205806

```

Thank you for trying to help.

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-10-05
The problem with the dpkg command is that with the Hardy release, the Xorg included pays little attention to the xorg.conf file.  It is made to auto-detect video cards and monitors.  Gutsy paid a lot of attention to it, and you could just change that to mess with your setup.  Unfortunately the days of human readable configuration files for Xorg are limited.

So your one choice is to use the GTK port of displayconfig.  To look at what your system is set for without changing it, use this command:
```

displayconfig-gtk

```
And to change it, use this one:
```

gksu displayconfig-gtk

```

---

### Post by DyBurke on 2008-10-05
That's already so much help, but how do I find out what model of lcd screen my laptop is using?  I've done some Google searches, but it doesn't seem to be listed anywhere.  My laptop is a Gateway MT6723.

Also, the window that displays after the command 'displayconfig-gtk' says that I have 3 screens?  Screen 1, Screen 2, and Screen 1? wtf mate?

Thanks so much for helping.

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-10-05
I'd probably just use the generic plug n play.  Just choose one that has the same specs as yours and you should be okay.  Not sure exactly what is up with the three screens, but just choose the first one..

For the video card, I'd try the experimental modesetting driver.  It works great, despite the scary name.

---

### Post by DyBurke on 2008-10-05
> **JoshuaRL said:**
> I'd probably just use the generic plug n play.  Just choose one that has the same specs as yours and you should be okay.  Not sure exactly what is up with the three screens, but just choose the first one..

For the video card, I'd try the experimental modesetting driver.  It works great, despite the scary name.

You rock face. :P  You get a thanks for sure.  My screen resolution is fine now.  Next step is to figure out why gdm doesn't reach to the edge of the screen.  Any suggestions?

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-10-05
> **DyBurke said:**
> You rock face. :P  You get a thanks for sure.  My screen resolution is fine now.  Next step is to figure out why gdm doesn't reach to the edge of the screen.  Any suggestions?

GDM?  Could you be a little more specific?

---

### Post by DyBurke on 2008-10-05
gdm is the login manager, no?  Regardless my login manager wont stretch to the edge of the screen.

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-10-05
Not sure if this is the issue, but lets check your usplash settings.
```

gedit /etc/usplash.conf

```
And make sure the x and y resolutions match what your system is set up for.  If not, close that and use gksu again to edit it.

If that needs any altering, run this command to update it into your system:
```

sudo update-usplash-theme usplash-theme-ubuntu

```

---

### Post by DyBurke on 2008-10-05
Nope.  It has the correct resolution.

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-10-05
Alright, I'm about out of options buddy.  Try shutting it down all the way and restarting.  If that doesn't fix it, you might need to get help from someone else.

---

### Post by DyBurke on 2008-10-05
That didn't work.  No matter, you've already helped me imeansley.  Thank you very much for all your help.

---

