---
title: "How to add a Trash Bin to a second ntfs drive?"
date: 2010-04-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bettyhills on 2010-04-10
My first HDD (formatted ext) contains the linux system plus some data files and has a Trash bin.  

I installed a second HDD (60 gb, ntfs) to my ubuntu pc and use it for data files only.  The second drive does not have a Trash bin.  When something is deleted it is gone.  

Is there a way to add a Trash bin to the second drive?  

Or is there a way to target the Trash bin on the primary drive to receive deletions from the the second drive?

If so, please give step-by-step instructions, or direct me to a link telling how.  

Thanks.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-04-10
This works fine for me, though I'm on lucid.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-04-11
The linux file system is not designed to handle deleted files in other formats for a variety of reasons. However, you should be able to have an ntfs trash bin in the ntfs partiton. It will be called ".Trash-1000". The "1000" will be the user's id - and the first user is normally 1000.

This trash bin is hidden by default, since it's name begins with a period (.). You can view hidden files in your standard file browser with CTRL-h.

If you are getting only the option to permanently delete trash on an ntfs partition it could be related to your fstab settings (or lack thereof). For my fstab (/etc/fstab) settings, I use the following and these allow the creation of the ntfs .Trash folder:
> 
UUID=<some id> <some mountpoint> ntfs utf8,umask=007,uid=1000,gid=1000 0 2


Here is an example:
```
UUID=7B72A76F423720BE /media/myfiles  ntfs utf8,umask=007,uid=1000,gid=1000 0 2
```

To open and edit fstab you must have root privileges, so open it with:
```
gksu gedit /etc/fstab
```

Check your settings, make any necessary corrections, and save the file. Then remount the partition (using the correct designation for XY):
```
sudo umount /dev/sdXY
sudo mount /dev/sdXY
```

---

### Post by bettyhills on 2010-04-11
Thank you for responding.  I am really new at this.  The contents of the fstab file are:

[COLOR="DarkRed"]# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=98d7ef1c-f15c-44a0-87b9-8972cb42639e / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=d73ce4ff-e7b9-407b-bf7d-3ebf30ebb157 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/Public ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
[/COLOR]
I assume only the last line refers to the 60gb ntfs HDD.  How would I alter that line to add a Trash bin? OR is there a completely new line I can add to the file that will do the job?

Thanks.

---

### Post by egalvan on 2010-04-11
> **drs305 said:**
> 
To open and edit fstab you must have root privileges, so **open it with:**
```
**gksu gedit /etc/fstab**
```

type in  your log-in password (nothing will show), make any necessary **changes/corrections**, and save the file.

These are the **changes/corrections **you need...

Your old fstab line...

```
[COLOR="DarkRed"]/dev/sdb1 /media/Public ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0[/COLOR]
```

your new fstab line...
```
[COLOR="DarkRed"]/dev/sdb1 /media/Public  ntfs utf8,umask=007,uid=1000,gid=1000 0 2[/COLOR]
```

>  Then remount the partition (using the correct designation for XY):
```
sudo umount /dev/[COLOR="DarkRed"]sdb1[/COLOR]
sudo mount /dev/[COLOR="DarkRed"]sdb1[/COLOR]
```

Not very Unix-y, but you could simply re-boot, instead of running the above two commands.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-04-11
You don't need ANY fstab line for the drive.  It will show up automatically on the places menu and when you try to open it, after entering your password it will be mounted correctly automatically.

---

### Post by egalvan on 2010-04-12
> **psusi said:**
> You don't need ANY fstab line for the drive.  It will show up automatically on the places menu and when you try to open it, after entering your password **it will be mounted correctly automatically**.

Absolutley correct....

except that the OP is asking **how to place a trash-can** on that drive...

The drive is apparently mounting OK.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-04-12
> **egalvan said:**
> Absolutley correct....

except that the OP is asking **how to place a trash-can** on that drive...

The drive is apparently mounting OK.

And yet for some reason people are trying different ways of mounting that are likely incorrect.  You don't have to do anything special to have the trash can work.

---

### Post by bettyhills on 2010-04-12
Thank you SO much, drs305 and egalvan.  It works perfectly!  Items removed from the secondary ntfs HDD go to the Trash bin on the primary Linux ext drive waiting for permanent deletion.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-04-12
> **bettyhills said:**
> Thank you SO much, drs305 and egalvan.  It works perfectly!  Items removed from the secondary ntfs HDD go to the Trash bin on the primary Linux ext drive waiting for permanent deletion.

If you don't mess with fstab at all then deleted files on the ntfs partition go to the trash bin on the ntfs partition, rather than being copied to the ext partition, which takes much longer.

---

### Post by krippa on 2010-06-07
First off, this is a real problem since users can't (at least not all) are not able to use the trash can straight away, which in some cases can be really annoying..

I realize that the solution here is a workaround allowing user 1000 to mount and use trash. However, since I am configuring a multi-user system this does not help a lot since other users are now not even able to mount the drive.

Any suggestions that will work in multi-user setup?
Thanks
Kristofer

---

### Post by la_monda on 2010-07-28
my problem seems to be that i cannot access trash from my mounted ntfs partition, thus i cant sent files to trash from that partition at all. i have to delete them straight away instead. its not so much of a problem, but its certain that something doesn't work well here... :x
my fstab goes something like this:


# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>
proc /proc proc nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
# / was on /dev/sda6 during installation
UUID=550aa001-f171-4ce8-9aff-a4a72020328d / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# swap was on /dev/sda7 during installation
UUID=970b04fa-447c-4eab-8f25-5daccb824bab none swap sw 0 0
/dev/sda5 /media/sda5 ntfs defaults,umask=0000 0 0

---

