---
title: "13.04 very slow on netbook samsung N100S"
date: 2013-05-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by rvergara on 2013-05-25
Hi there,

I installed 13.04 in a samsung N100S for a friend.

Using Unity was impossibly slow, installed gnome panel and login using gnome classic. It is better but still slow.

My guess is the graphical driver (or the lack of the proper one). reading in the net, these netbooks use GMA3150 as a graphical card but I have been unable to find a driver for 13.04.

Any help/ideas about how to improve graphics perfomance?

Regards

Ramiro

---

### Post by lethall1 on 2013-05-25
[https://downloadcenter.intel.com/Detail_Desc.aspx?agr=Y&DwnldID=13815&lang=eng&OSVersion=Linux*&DownloadType=%0A%09%09%09%09%09%09%09Drivers%0A%09%09%09%09%09%09]("https://downloadcenter.intel.com/Detail_Desc.aspx?agr=Y&DwnldID=13815&lang=eng&OSVersion=Linux*&DownloadType=%0A%09%09%09%09%09%09%09Drivers%0A%09%09%09%09%09%09")

There must be README file inside with instruction ho to install

---

### Post by rvergara on 2013-05-25
Thanks for the quick reply

There was a debian driver for the graphic card family that the N100S has:

lspci output:
VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Atom Processor D2xxx/N2xxx Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0b)

Installed the driver installer and then run it, however the installer says that the netbook does not have an intel graphical card!!!

any further ideas?

---

### Post by rvergara on 2013-05-29
Just to report progress 

I went to the Intel linux graph project as suggested above and reported my issue with a ticket. They suggested to try the 32bit version of the drivers which I did (after installing 13.04 32 bit) to no avail.

I guess the graph processot in this little machine is not well supported for Ubuntu.

I will try with Lubuntu and will report back on results.

---

### Post by rvergara on 2013-05-30
Lubuntu made my day.

For the record, if you have a Samsung N100S Do not install Ubuntu, just install Lubuntu, good performanece for this small machine.

Regards

Ramiro

---

