---
title: "11.10 along side windows"
date: 2012-04-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by jskeys on 2012-04-16
I have just downloaded 11.10 from the site using the "along side windows" option.  I assume that during the download a partition was created and 11.10 installed there(but then I am making an assumption).  I use to go through nautilus (on older versions) and was able to get to the files (documents and pics) that I had on the windows side of the partition and work with those files in open office, then save.  I can not find nautilus on 11.10 and it seems the only files I can access are on the ubuntu side of the partition.  Can not fine a file manager location where I can see "OS" or "windows" indicating the other side of the drive.  Hope some of you can help me find my way on what for me is a re-entry into Ubuntu.  Thanks is advance.

---

### Post by Curtis6767 on 2012-04-16
Along side Windows suggests that you installed using WUBI. This means that Ubuntu is installed on your hard drive as if it were just another program. Nice thing about this is that you can uninstall it by going into Add/Remove programs.

If you are using 11.10 or 12.04 LTS Beta, the "Home Folder" is in the upper left hand corner of you screen, just below the Ubuntu logo.

To get to my Windows side, I have to click on Home Folder and then  File System/host

from there I can access my Win7 side. But my system may set up different from yours.

---

### Post by jskeys on 2012-04-17
You are correct, my 11.10 shows as a program in the control panel in win 7.  I am only an educated user on computers, not an expert in any way.  So, it sounds like you partitioned your drive and installed 11.10 on one partition.  When I used earlier (installed from disk) the installation guided me thru setting up the partition (did not see that this time). On the Ubuntu website it does not seem to provide that option. From what you wrote it sounds like installing ubuntu with WUBI will not allwo dual use by win and ubuntu of documents and pic files.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-04-17
Sorry ... once again, lots of misleading info is being spread ...

First of all, although you CAN create a partition and install using Wubi to that partition, Wubi does not require that.  It is designed to install, like any other application, inside an existing Windows filesystem partition.  So, unless you went out of your way to manually create a separate partition, Ubuntu is most likely installed inside your "C" partition.

Second, Ubuntu installed through Wubi ends up working just like Ubuntu installed from CD/USB to its own partition.  There is nothing prohibiting a Wubi-installed Ubuntu from accessing any partition on the drive.

The difference, as already pointed out, is that with a Wubi-installed version of Ubuntu, the Windows filesystem is already mounted at "\host" -- so, you go there to find it and you don't need to mount it (again).

As to dual use of files and documents, it's generally a BAD idea to make changes to an MS Windows OS filesystem from inside Ubuntu -- runs the risk of corrupting the MS Windows filesystem.  Ubuntu can read files from MS Windows just fine; it's best to avoid making changes to such files.

---

