---
title: "9.10 dont load or install on acer aspire 3650"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by kreto on 2009-11-04
hi
the 9.04 workes fine on my acer aspire 3650 i cannot install 9.10 if i upgrade 9.04 to 9.10
it stops i the ubuntu load screen (celeron m410 ati xpress 200m ar2413 1gb ram) what can it bee ????

---

### Post by Aratrix on 2009-11-13
I have an Acer Aspire 3650 too and initially ran into the same problem. I managed to install karmic by using acpi=off on boot up (use F6). It will not boot without this option. Now I am running into other problems: wireless card and usb mouse are not working. I will get back if I cannot sort this out as I'm currently running update manager.

---

### Post by Aratrix on 2009-11-13
Updating did not solve the issues. I did find out that booting with nolapic instead of acpi=off did enable my usb mouse again, but it was very slow. It also made my wireless card light lit up again. I am sorry for not being more specific, but I am fairly new to Ubuntu and do not know what sort of information to post. I know that iwlist scan says my wlan cannot find any networks. 

As I've read somewhere that upgrading from 8.04 might work, I am going to try that now.

---

### Post by Aratrix on 2009-11-15
I think I solved it. Do not use the acpi=off boot option, but use nolapic instead. Then after install, hit escape in the grub menu, then hit e. Go to the line where it says quiet splash and add nolapic irqpoll to that line (make sure there is a space between the last word and nolapic). Then hit ctrl+x to boot. Mouse and wireless are working well now. Only thing not working so far is the usb headset, but I'll work that out later.

Now I am going to figure out how to make the boot option a permanent one.

---

### Post by DFlame on 2009-11-15
You should be able to append to the lines by editing the /boot/grub/menu.lst (or /boot/grub/grub.cfg if you are using GRUB2) file as root. When saved, the changes will "stick"

Eg: ```
gksu gedit /etc/grub/menu.lst
``` in Terminal.

---

### Post by Aratrix on 2009-11-15
Yep, had already found the page on Grub2. Got it edited now. 
Actually for Grub2 you need to edit /etc/default/grub and then run sudo update-grub

Only problem I seem to have now is when I use restart in Ubuntu, Grub won't load. This was before I edited anything already.

---

### Post by DFlame on 2009-11-15
Thanks for the tip :). I don't think I can help with GRUB not loading, however. Someone with a little more experience may drop by soon.

---

### Post by Aratrix on 2009-11-15
No idea what I did, but GRUB seems to do it's job now. I'm not seeing the GRUB menu anymore, but I haven't tried hitting Esc on bootup just yet.

In the mean time I have gotten my audio back by following the instructions listed on this page: [http://www.unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/525-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu910-karmic-koala](http://www.unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/525-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu910-karmic-koala)
My usb microphone and soundcard are working now.

---

### Post by RJ12 on 2009-11-15
> **Aratrix said:**
> No idea what I did, but GRUB seems to do it's job now. I'm not seeing the GRUB menu anymore, but I haven't tried hitting Esc on bootup just yet.

In the mean time I have gotten my audio back by following the instructions listed on this page: [http://www.unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/525-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu910-karmic-koala](http://www.unixmen.com/linux-tutorials/525-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu910-karmic-koala)
My usb microphone and soundcard are working now.

Remember GRUB2 uses the "Shift Key" To show the menu, not the "ESC Key":popcorn:;)

---

### Post by Aratrix on 2009-11-17
Ah yes, was wondering why Esc didn't work. Think I've got everything up and running now. Thanks!

---

