---
title: "[SOLVED] trying to get write access to fat32 hdd via fstab"
date: 2008-10-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by stinger30au on 2008-10-15
g'day,
i have a fat32 hdd and i have read access to it but i need write access to it as well. what a pitty this does not happen by default on install

i have posted a copy of my fstab so others more knowledgeable can tell me what i need to modify. thanks



# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc                                       /proc          proc         defaults                    0  0  
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=12c2bffe-96be-47b0-8e0b-54433b98c32a  /              ext3         relatime,errors=remount-ro  0  1  
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=e016d093-9363-494e-a19d-e592c2e90e9d  none           swap         sw                          0  0  
/dev/scd0                                  /media/cdrom0  udf,iso9660  user,noauto,exec,utf8       0  0  
/dev/sdb1                                  /media/sdb1    ntfs         defaults                    0  0  
/dev/sdc1                                  /media/sdc1    vfat         defaults                    0  0

---

### Post by D3M0L1$H3® on 2008-10-15
reformat it to NTFS, after they tell you how to get to it, then copy your files somewhere else, then use the GParted to reformat it, the HDD will eventually die without NTFS.

---

### Post by jbrown96 on 2008-10-15
> **D3M0L1$H3® said:**
> reformat it to NTFS, after they tell you how to get to it, then copy your files somewhere else, then use the GParted to reformat it, the HDD will eventually die without NTFS.

Don't do this. There's no reason to reformat it. May I ask why you have a Fat32 partition? Are you using it in Windows? 
A quick fix would be to give yourself ownership ```
sudo chown -R USERNAME:USERNAME /media/sdc1
``` Change USERNAME to your username and don't forget the colon in between.

---

### Post by Rolcol on 2008-10-15
> **D3M0L1$H3® said:**
> reformat it to NTFS, after they tell you how to get to it, then copy your files somewhere else, then use the GParted to reformat it, the HDD will eventually die without NTFS.
NTFS is not a good format.  If you accidentally forget to safely remove it, it will be locked and you'll have to force mount it.  FAT32 is OK but it has a 4GB file size limit.  (You can use the split + cat commands to put files bigger than 4GB).  Also, the hard drive will not "last longer" the way it's formatted.  It depeneds on how much it's read from and written to.

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2008-10-15
this pc used to have windows on it.

i have formatted and installed ubuntu on hda. im in the process of converting the hdd to ntfs, atleast with ntfs i dont have to do all this stuffing round.

the s/w im using says it has another half hour to go to finish the conversion

i have no doubt i will have to modify my fstab to see the ntfs but in the long run it will be easier for me in sure

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2008-10-15
much better. converted hdd to ntfs and mofified my last line of my fstab from vfat to ntfs and its all good


YIPPE!!

---

