---
title: "10.04 Won't Boot"
date: 2010-08-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jolicoeur on 2010-08-31
Loaded 9.04 and updated to 9.10, both worked. updated to 10.04 and it would not boot at all.  Could not get into safe mode could not reload with cd.  Try to boot and a bunch of errors flash by and  then black screen.  So, tried to reload 9.04 with disk, it literally took 30 boot tries to get it to start and load. Now I have 9.04, I think I can safely upgrade to 9.10 but I am afraid to try 10.04 again, almost lost use of my laptop. Any suggestions for a load up that will boot? thanks

---

### Post by ivanovnegro on 2010-08-31
> **Jolicoeur said:**
> Loaded 9.04 and updated to 9.10, both worked. updated to 10.04 and it would not boot at all.  Could not get into safe mode could not reload with cd.  Try to boot and a bunch of errors flash by and  then black screen.  So, tried to reload 9.04 with disk, it literally took 30 boot tries to get it to start and load. Now I have 9.04, I think I can safely upgrade to 9.10 but I am afraid to try 10.04 again, almost lost use of my laptop. Any suggestions for a load up that will boot? thanks

Have you tried the LiveCD of Ubuntu 10.04? You can test with it if you can boot the OS.
I recommend you to make a clean install of 10.04 after test it and if everything is alright.
There were some issues with Lucid if you have a special graphic card and after booting there were a black screen.

Edit: I dont know if this [Link]("http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/") can help you

---

### Post by Chris1274 on 2010-08-31
If you want 10.04, a clean install would probably be better than an upgrade. From what I understand, 9.04 used an older version of grub, and trying to upgrade from grub1 to grub2 can lead to problems like yours.

---

### Post by Mbhiza on 2010-08-31
Upgrades to [COLOR=Sienna]**LTS**[/COLOR] version are not as easy as those to update versions. My advice it that you back-up and do a fresh install of [COLOR=Sienna]10.04[/COLOR] :D

---

### Post by Jolicoeur on 2010-08-31
Yea, I think that now that 9.04 is on the laptop working I will try the cd of 10.04 and see what happens. I did see online that there is sometimes a problem using the upgrade feature from 9.10 to 10.04.  Thanks

---

### Post by Neobuntu on 2010-08-31
Yeah, never dist-upgrade (or by manager). Do a clean install (up to the next Ubuntu distribution tier) instead. A modern complex system, such as any mainstream OS today, is best starting in a known state. This way, in-distribution upgrades (always do these; they're great!), and tweaks, take better.

You have to remember that Ubuntu is made from the "unstable" Debian tier, and the LTS version from the "testing" tier, by in large. In any case, LTS or not, the best time to (dist) upgrade Ubuntu (via backup and clean install), is at least 3 months after an "official", release date. That is, if you want maximum stability, balanced with newer stuff; in a time saving, default manner.

10.04 may have a few glitches getting installed (there's a lot of hardware out there), and with the new GRUB(2) and there's a newer 10.04.1 live CD released. If you start with a new live CD, and it boots well, you can always go back to that, get on-line, and do any fixes needed. Even to the GRUB(2) menu and initial start-up.

Note:
I had to turn "off" UDMA in my computers BIOS; but just for the newest automatic (...-24) kernel. In this way, GRUB(2) read the proper UDMA mode (5), from my drive, set it and finally booted fine, just like all previous kernels; that didn't need the BIOS adjustment. I've read that some motherboard BIOS settings, have to be set to the WRONG UDMA mode, so the new GRUB will read, and set the right UDMA mode, and boot.

---

### Post by Jolicoeur on 2010-08-31
Thanks, I did not know there was now a 10.04.1 version.  I went to the website, how does one know which to choose, the i386 or the amd64 architecture?

---

### Post by ivanovnegro on 2010-08-31
> **Jolicoeur said:**
> Thanks, I did not know there was now a 10.04.1 version.  I went to the website, how does one know which to choose, the i386 or the amd64 architecture?

The i386 is the 32 bit version and the amd64 is the 64 bit version.
Could you look in your old install what version of 9.04 you have?
Somewhere in the system settings or in the profile benchmarks, there you can find your architecture and general information about your system and OS or hardware.
Or put this command in the terminal: uname -rm. It will show your architecture on your 9.04 system.

---

