---
title: "11.10 on ASUS Eee PC: &quot;double tap and hold&quot; not working for drag &amp; drop"
date: 2011-10-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by swarup on 2011-10-23
Just installed 11.10 on my Asus Eee PC (*specifics of computer below). The touchpad does not provide facility for "double-tap and hold" for dragging an object. I checked in the touchpad settings, which are very limited. The only relevant setting I see is "enable mouseclicks with touchpad", which I have enabled without result. 

(Now When I double tap and hold, the cursor does briefly change to the closed fist which indicates it is holding an object, but it remains like that for only an instant and then reverts back to the normal cursor with the result that I am unable to use it to drag an object.) 


*ASUS Eee PC 1015PEB-BK603 Netbook - Intel Atom N450 1.66GHz, 1GB DDR2, 160GB HDD, 6-Cell, 10.1" SVGA, Windows 7 Starter, Black

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-10-24
I just tried this on my virtually identical Eee PC (mine is red), and I also cannot do the 'double tap and hold' in 11.10.

I don't have a solution (yet), so this only verifies it is not unique to your install.

***The Hedge ***

:KS

---

### Post by swarup on 2011-10-24
Can anyone suggest a solution to this problem? I am wondering whether perhaps there is another touchpad-control application that can be installed which will give more detailed options, so that the "double-tap and hold" facility for dragging an object, can be made active.

---

### Post by foxy123 on 2011-10-25
I've got 1015PX and the double tap and hold is very flaky. In 9 out of 10 double clicks it does not work. I wonder if it is a synaptics bug or compiz.

---

### Post by swarup on 2011-10-25
> **foxy123 said:**
> I've got 1015PX and the double tap and hold is very flaky. In 9 out of 10 double clicks it does not work. I wonder if it is a synaptics bug or compiz.

Yes, that's how it is with mine too. If I try a whole bunch of times, I may get it to work once. I have to do it extremely quickly and even at that only after doing it ten times I may get lucky once. That's why I thought perhaps if there is another software for managing the touchpad, that might perhaps give adjustment as to how fast the double click has to be done or something...

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2011-10-25
There is already a bug report.  See:  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/+bug/874675](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/+bug/874675)

---

### Post by swarup on 2011-10-25
Hey, thanks for that link. It sounds like some of the contributors there found solutions to the problem on their computer. Although the person who reported the bug, tried implementing the suggested changes without result. I'll have to try it on my netbook and see what happens. Perhaps the Ubuntu folks will implement a fix in one of their software updates? Or will this sort of fix only come with the next version in April...

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2011-10-25
It wasn't listed as critical so I wouldn't hold my breath.

---

### Post by swarup on 2011-10-25
They may not have listed it as critical, but I think of it as pretty critical. This makes me think the problem may not be occurring on all laptops. Because if it were, there would surely be a big noise being made about it-- such an integral part of basic day-to-day functionality.

---

### Post by triya on 2012-05-22
even in my HP pavillion dv6, i have the same problem, but some of my friends don't have any problem...
I tried to change the configuration in the synaptics manager, but it doesn't have  any effect at all..! I just want to remove ubuntu 11.10, but can't afford to lose all my data!

---

