---
title: "13.04 ubu to xubuntu"
date: 2013-07-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ub9876 on 2013-07-01
i have ubuntu 13.04 installed
  can I get xubuntu  without the whole 700mb downkoad???

---

### Post by DeathByDenim on 2013-07-01
You can by running the command
```
sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop
```
On my Kubuntu installation that will require a 476 Mb download though, so it's not much of a difference.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2013-07-01
First, do an update, before installing something that huge.  Otherwise, there is the odd chance that the install can fail.

[http://www.aeronetworks.ca/2013/05/virtualbox-ubuntu.html](http://www.aeronetworks.ca/2013/05/virtualbox-ubuntu.html)

---

### Post by newb85 on 2013-07-01
> **DeathByDenim said:**
> You can by running the command
```
sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop
```
On my Kubuntu installation that will require a 476 Mb download though, so it's not much of a difference.

There must be a much greater difference between Kubuntu and Xubuntu than Ubuntu and Xubuntu

On my Ubuntu installation that will only require a 73.5 MB download.  (I'm assuming you meant to report yours in MB, not Mb...)

If you wanted to slim that down, you could instead

```
sudo apt-get install xfce4
```

That would only require a 15.4 MB download.  (That's because it would only replace the Desktop Environment, and not the default applications.  I'm guessing that's what you're going for, anyways.)  But then, that wouldn't configure XFCE the way it is in Xubuntu by default, unless you also

```
sudo apt-get install xubuntu-default-settings
```

That would be an additional 14.6 MB download.

---

### Post by Peripheral Visionary on 2013-07-02
After installing either xfce4 or xubuntu-desktop, remember that you have to **choose a session** when you log onto your computer.  The session will be a choice of stuff like KDE, Kubuntu, Xfce, Xubuntu, etc.

---

