---
title: "Installed 180.22, now monitor says I am sending wrong resolution."
date: 2009-02-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by chubbleton on 2009-02-05
Always hard to try and fit a decent enough explanation into the title of a thread...

I came to Ubuntu back in November, after stumbling upon a live CD and loving it. Everything was peachy, and I was playing fun games without any problems.

I, like many others, experienced a lot of hardship a couple weeks ago when the kernel update was released. After many many hours of troubleshooting, I finally got the 180.22 Nvidia drivers up and running. My resolution is 1280x1024, everything looks great, and I am happy as a clam.

I go to play my favorite fps, Urban Terror, and upon starting the program, my screen just shuts down and tells me that I am sending the wrong signal ("Signal out of range, please change to 1280x1024 @ 60Hz").

I goto nvidia-settings, and indeed I am running at 1280x1024@60Hz, I double check the xorg.conf as well.

I also checked the config file for Urban Terror, but changing those settings around did nothing as well. (Can run the game as windowed and it works fine, but when I click fullscreen it just errors again).

I have searched and searched, here and on google, and cannot find any other threads similar, so I made this one.

Thanks in advance, everyone here is so great.

ps. Running Ubuntu 8.10 64bit, with all latest updates and whatnot.

 My xorg.conf:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:04 UTC 2008

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Tue Jan  6 09:43:54 PST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "HP vs19"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 76.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6600 GT"
    Option         "sli" "auto"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024_60 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by chubbleton on 2009-02-06
Well, I played around with this a ton more last night; if I run Urban Terror through console as root, I get fullscreen with no errors, but my mouse doesn't work. Other than that, there is no new news.

Really looking forward to some advice,


Thanks everyone!

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-02-06
have you tried deleting the config file altogether?  ...the game will create a new default one when it is started again.

see if that makes a difference.

---

### Post by chubbleton on 2009-02-06
Now that is one thing I have not tried, I will do that.

I at still at work though, and will not be able to try anything for a couple hours yet.

Thanks!

---

