---
title: "I want Hardy to mount NTFS read only"
date: 2008-08-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lipidicman on 2008-08-19
So Hardy mounts NTFS volumes transparently.  I am scared about them being corrupted Am I being overcautious here?  Does it use NTFS-3g?

Anyway back to the point: Is there a way to have the volumes automatically mounted, as they are by default, except in read-only mode?

---

### Post by run1206 on 2008-08-19
i have my windows partition mounted automatically in Linux.  You can edit the fstab file in /etc folder
```
 sudo gedit /etc/fstab 
``` and put in the properties to your ntfs partition

edit: here my fstab for example...

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=1b0caa0a-86ac-4be0-be45-55fbb7ed5e46 / ext3 noatime,nodiratime,errors=remount-ro,data=writeback 0 1
/dev/sda1 /media/Hard Drive ntfs-3g 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=d5fa18b9-27eb-48c2-b372-2f3288d877c1 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
**/dev/sda1 /media/Hard\040Drive ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0**
```

the bold is my NTFS partition

---

### Post by lipidicman on 2008-08-19
OK, I can read up on that.  However I would like ALL NTFS partitions to be mounted read only.  e.g. when I plug in my USB drive

---

### Post by forger on 2008-08-19
Try using [_ntfs-config_]("apt://ntfs-config")
menu Applications > System tools > NTFS configuration tool

---

### Post by run1206 on 2008-08-19
> **lipidicman said:**
> OK, I can read up on that.  However I would like ALL NTFS partitions to be mounted read only.  e.g. when I plug in my USB drive

i think that could be one of the options to put in... 
maybe...
```
/dev/sda1 /media/Hard\040Drive ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8,read-only 0 0
```

don't know the exact wording how it goes into the file but i'm sure it can be set as read-only in the file

---

### Post by forger on 2008-08-19
You can use [_pysdm_]("apt://pysdm") to configure fstab
menu system > administration > storage device manager

edit: use with caution, never tried it :\

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-08-19
Rereading this post, I believe you want it to be read-only for everyone, including the owner. See post #10 for automounting read-only. If so, then make the following entry in fstab or use the second entry on the command line:
Fstab:
```
/dev/*sdb1* /media/*mountpoint* ntfs-3g auto,users,umask=222,utf8 0 0
```

Mount example (read only for all):
```

sudo mount -t ntfs-3g -o umask=222 /dev/*sdb1 */media/mountpoint

```

---

### Post by run1206 on 2008-08-19
> **drs305 said:**
> Rereading this post, I believe you want it to be read-only for everyone, including the owner. See post #10 for automounting read-only. If so, then make the following entry in fstab or use the second entry on the command line:
Fstab:
```
/dev/*sdb1* /media/*mountpoint* ntfs-3g auto,users,umask=222,utf8 0 0
```

Mount example (read only for all):
```

sudo mount -t ntfs-3g -o umask=222 /dev/*sdb1 */media/mountpoint

```

thanks drs for the revision, i tried it and didn't work at first :D :D

---

### Post by lipidicman on 2008-08-21
Thanks for the help.  However I am unsure if any of these will ensure that any NTFS volume I attach will be read-only by default.  Can someone clarify?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-08-21
> **lipidicman said:**
> Thanks for the help.  However I am unsure if any of these will ensure that any NTFS volume I attach will be read-only by default.  Can someone clarify?

The examples I provided will make the specific partition read only but would not apply to *all* ntfs partitions.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-08-23
Gconf-editor would seem to have the solution to include *any and all* ntfs partition that automounts. 
Here are the settings I input into gconf editor to make the disks read-only. 

You can edit conf-editor manually (sudo gconf-editor) if you prefer, but it is easier to make the inputs on the command line. Restart hal to make sure the configuration changes take effect:
```

sudo gconftool-2 --type string --set /system/storage/default_options/ntfs/mount_options 'ro,utf8,locale='
sudo gconftool-2 --type string --set /system/storage/default_options/ntfs-3g/mount_options 'locale=,exec,ro'
sudo /etc/init.d/hal restart

```

The only way I was able to achieve consistency with the above settings was to let the NTFS partitions automount. If I mounted them as a user I regained write privileges.

---

### Post by lipidicman on 2008-09-03
I missed this reply.  Thanks!

My problem is now that I do not understand enough about mounting with my few weeks of linux experience.  When I have done some reading I am sure your info will prove its worth!  Thanks again

---

