---
title: "{16.10} does ubuntu actually INSTALL updates automatically? settings are set for that"
date: 2016-11-05
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
all settings > software & updates > updates

**when there are security updates = **set for [B]download and install automatically
[/B]
but it doesnt work, i have to manually run the software updater & install the updates manually?? 

* also what are **when there are other updates** - what are the **&#8203;other updates?**

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-11-05
Hello and welcome to the forum, As far as I'm aware if checked correctly in the** Software & Update **settings security updates will be installed automatically this is how I have my systems set. for the most I trust all update from Ubuntu and have never had any issues. This might help you with this concern you have [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareUpdates](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareUpdates)

**NOTE: **When you run the software udater you can choose which updates you want installed

> * also what are when there are other updates - what are the &#8203;other updates?

Any other updates will take care of software you have installed on your system and keeps things running smoothly

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
but i wasnt security updates, are you saying that **software & updates **is only for security ones??

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-11-05
No they are not all [COLOR=#000000] [/COLOR]security updates please see post **#2 **I mentioned what the other updates will cover

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
so you never answered the question, why is it not automatically installing? and i need to open the software updater?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-11-05
If you go to System Settings>Software & Updates>Updates you will see that it is only security updates that can be automatically downloaded and installed. "Other Updates" would include bug fixes pushed out by the developers that are not fixes for security vulnerabilities. 

Many of us do not like the idea of our system being under the control of anybody else. So, the idea of the system being automatically updated for anything other than security fixes is scary to say the least. We just do not like it. So, Ubuntu does not offer it. And we can even choose to have security fixes ask for permission before they are downloaded.

We can set for "Other Updates" to display immediately. So, we do not need to run Software Updater. All releases of Ubuntu get updates regularly for a few days after release. But eventually, there will be long periods when there are simply no updates available.

During the support period of a release we might get an upgrade to newer versions of software such as Firefox and Libreoffice but upgrades to most applications will come when we upgrade to the next release of Ubuntu. 

Regards

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
what happens when 'other updates' '[COLOR=#000000]display immediately' ?

does it auto-update or what happens exactly cos i need to run the software updater[/COLOR]

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2016-11-05
You can update through the terminal, and it's (for me) the best way to do it:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

I don't think that any updates are installed without the user entering "OK" or "Install Updates Now." Software updates aren't just for the OS; any piece of software installed from the repositories which has an update will be updated: office, multimedia, games, etc.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-06
* is there at least any easy way for the software updater to pop up by itself, so i dont have to remember to open it?

--

but... im going to forget those commands

i have a life (i hope?)

i dont have time to remember this stuff

i shouldn't be a slave to my machine

technology is suppose to help humanity, and not for technology to take away our humanity

i have more important things to do with my life (i hope?)

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-11-06
Do you use a **dock **on your desktop? if you do it's a good way to add the updater icon and when updates are available it will display with animation and let you know updates are ready to install I've attached a screen shot below this particular dock is called Cario dock and be installed very easily

Even if you add the updater to your** unity bar **on the left hand side of your desktop it should let you know when updates are ready to be installed with out you having to check

Cario dock
[http://glx-dock.org/](http://glx-dock.org/)

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-11-06
If you notice in this screen shot the updater icon is rotating letting me know updates are ready to be installed

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-11-06
> **RobGoss said:**
> If you notice in this screen shot the updater icon is rotating letting me know updates are ready to be installed
[LIST=1]
[*]You can crop screenshots so that primarily the area of interest is shown.
[*]The updater icon isn't rotating for me.
[*]If you want to show the updater icon rotating, you may need to first make a video using something like simplescreenrecorder and then convert that to an animated gif. I can't remember the exact details for how that's done :( Point to note: such gifs can be quite large if one isn't careful.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-06
yep i re-added the 'software update' icon back to the 'stripe'

after it seemed like you couldn't update & install updates automatically

may be using gnome or something though after finding a solution to this biggest problem -- [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342305&p=13566626](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342305&p=13566626)

 (so that i can FINALLY test & use ubuntu for the last 10 years of procrastinating) 

probably will add a dock or other useful things after deciding on a desktop, etc.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-11-06
> **vasa1 said:**
> 
[LIST=1]
[*]You can crop screenshots so that primarily the area of interest is shown.
[*]The updater icon isn't rotating for me.
[*]If you want to show the updater icon rotating, you may need to first make a video using something like simplescreenrecorder and then convert that to an animated gif. I can't remember the exact details for how that's done :( Point to note: such gifs can be quite large if one isn't careful.
[/LIST]



> The updater icon isn't rotating for me.

Are you using Cario dock? for me it's rotating not sure why yours is not. If you notice in the screen shot the updater icon it's not **aligned** as the others

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-11-07
> **linuxhard said:**
> all settings > software & updates > updates

**when there are security updates = **set for [B]download and install automatically
[/B]
but it doesnt work, i have to manually run the software updater & install the updates manually?? 

Are you sure?
Look at /var/log/unattended-upgrades/unattended-upgrades.log for the list of updates that have been downloaded and installed automatically.
You can browse older logs in the same folder, too.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-21
yea cos not updates are included as said in one of the post -- [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342238&p=13566200#post13566200](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342238&p=13566200#post13566200)

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-11-21
Upgrades can come from any source.
Security upgrades come from the -security repository (Example: 16.04 uses xenial-security)
Other non-security upgrades can come from the -upgrades or -backports repositories.
Non-Ubuntu software can be similarly upgraded from their own repositories.

By default, Ubuntu offers you unattended -security upgrades only.
However, that's merely a setting in /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50unattended-upgrades, and it is trivial to edit the file to include any repository you wish.
However, this particular power of Linux is also the power to break your system quite horribly if you make unwise choices about automatic upgrading.
So use it responsibly and wisely.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-22
i dont understand what are you basically saying

to answer the question of the thread

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-11-22
Okay, the straight answer to your thread question is 'YES'.

Now let's ask the questions you actually seem interested in:

Can Ubuntu _install_ security updates automatically?   YES
Does a fresh install of Ubuntu install updates Automatically?  NO, You must change one setting.
Can Ubuntu install other non-security updates automatically? YES, if you change one setting.
Why does yours not work the way you expect?  WE ARE NOT PSYCHIC.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-12-07
* everyone needs to mark this as the best answer ever given on the entire ubu & on the web

this is the gold standard

"[COLOR=#000000]Does a fresh install of Ubuntu install updates Automatically? NO, You must change one setting."

how do i make sure or check that ubu is installing platform (or non-security updates) automatically?[/COLOR]

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-12-07
> **linuxhard said:**
> [COLOR=#000000]how do i make sure or check that ubu is installing platform (or non-security updates) automatically?[/COLOR]

See Post #17 of this thread for how to enable non-security unattended upgrades.

Verify that it works by checking /var/log/unattended-upgrades/unattended-upgrades.log occasionally.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-12-08
but said on [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342238&p=13573227#post13573227](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342238&p=13573227#post13573227)

that i dont understand what you were saying

is it easy? are there steps anywhere?

just need the steps

--

i dunno if that post covered how to check if ubu is installing

are there steps to that also?

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-12-08
I don't know what is easy for you.
If you don't understand the settings in /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50unattended-upgrades, then it's not going to be easy for you.

There are no 'steps' to magically accomplish. There is no GUI for it (anyone is the community is welcome to create one).
Instead, you must learn a small set of skills: How to view a root-owned config file. How to edit a root-owned config file. How apt settings work. How repositories work.
We don't know what skills you have. Look at the file, and ask questions.

The straight answer to your question is this. I hope you understand it. If not, please be specific about elements that you don't understand:
Near the top of the file, you will see a bunch of repositories. All are commented-out with '\\' (except for -security). Uncomment the repos that you want to unattended-upgrade to use (like -upgrade). DO NOT uncomment -proposed, that repo is for testing and may break your system. You can add other repos (google, PPAs) if you wish, but I generally advise against it due to risk of breakage. Save the changed file. Make a note of your changes - the changed file will pop up during your next release-upgrade as a 'different config file', and the system will ask you to deconflict.

How to verify that unattended-upgrade is working is already covered in Post #21 of this thread.

---

