---
title: "8.04 Dialup connection with an external modem?"
date: 2008-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Gyrotwister on 2008-05-11
I've just installed Ubuntu 8.04 on a new machine and moved all my files from the old machine to the new.  

I am having some trouble getting a dialup connection despite the fact I'm using the same external modem from the old machine.  

Using the “Network” option in the System\Administration menu,...
I've Selected “point to point connection”
Connection type [Serial modem]
Phone number, user name, and password are all correct.  
Modem port [/dev/ttyS0]
“Set modem as default route to internet” is checked.
“Use the internet service provider nameservers” is also checked
 
I think I've set it up the same as the old machine except the old one has GnomePPP installed.  

Now, what's happening is this.  The modem dials and gets a connection OK.  All the lights look right.  
I even get the occasional flicker on RD and TD(from my ISP?).  

The connection is definitely there but the app's in Ubuntu don't see it.  Firefox says I'm working off line.  Update Manager can't connect either.  

Have I missed something? Any suggestions?

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-05-11
You may need to disable any other 'enabled' network interfaces...especially eth1. Gnome-ppp of kppp are usually preferred over pppconfig, so if there is a way to install either, I would recommend that.

Try running ```
sudo pppconfig
```from the terminal to set up your connection. Use the arrows key to move around the menu, or when selecting 'ok'

---

### Post by Gyrotwister on 2008-05-11
Ok then, I'll try running "sudo pppconfig" in the command line first.  

I agree Gnome-ppp is a much nicer way to go about this.  If I get this new machine online OK I'll aptget it straight away.  
If not I'll be back asking how to install it without a working internet connection:) 

Here goes....

---

### Post by nowshining on 2008-05-11
gnome-ppp in ubuntu has a problem unless they fixed it within the last 5months or so to where it won't dock. A fixed up version is at my site.

I use kppp, just go into gnome-ppp and go into options and find an auto-detect button to detect ur modem. :)

---

### Post by Gyrotwister on 2008-05-11
Things are better but I'm not quite there yet.  sudo pppconfig got me a connection which allowed Synaptic to work.  I have Gnome-ppp and my system is up to date.  

Firefox 3 Beta 5 still doesn't connect.  I keep getting...
**Offline Mode**

[B]Firefox is currently in offline mode and can't browse the Web.
The browser is operating in its offline mode and cannot connect to the requested item.  

    * Is the computer connected to an active network?
    * Place the browser in online mode and try again.
[/B]
What's this about placing the browser in online mode?  

Spiderbatdad, how do I check and "disable any other 'enabled' network interfaces...especially eth1"?  

Nowshining, what do you mean by "it won't sock"?  
And where do you keep this "fixed up version" of gnome-ppp?  I'd like to check it out.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-05-11
Hi. glad to hear you got that far. Dial-up can be a real bear in linux. Not sure what's up with browser. **Check under the File menu in the browser to see if "Work offline" is checked**. To disable the other network interface, check System>>Administration>>Network. It is possible there is no other network interface enabled.

---

### Post by Ripfox on 2008-05-11
Wow this is a coincidence for me. I was at my moms house today and found an old 28kbps external in the basement and was showing it to people. They were like "what's that?!" I told them it was a modem and they were like no way. :lolflag:

---

### Post by NJC on 2008-05-11
> **Gyrotwister said:**
> 
[B]Firefox is currently in offline mode and can't browse the Web.
The browser is operating in its offline mode and cannot connect to the requested item.  
[/B]
Go to File and uncheck Work Offline. Pain in the rear but I'm not sure how to fix ... seems to be a problem with others using FF3 b5.

---

### Post by Gyrotwister on 2008-05-12
**"I told them it was a modem and they were like no way."** Thanks ripfox, I actually got a chuckle out of that!  

Yes, "Work Offline" was checked.  I did uncheck that yesterday prior to getting a connection going in the command line.  
It seems "Work Offline" is the default every time the first instance of FF3 b5 is opened. 

If it bothers me I can always go back to FF2 via Synaptic I suppose.  

Thanks to all.

---

