---
title: "18.04 NAS hangs under load . ZFS / 10 Gbe NIC"
date: 2018-12-30
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by madbrain on 2018-12-30
I'm new to Ubuntu and new to running Linux at home in general. I have built my own PCs for over 25 years, though. I have written a lot of code for Linux and other platforms in my job as well.
Just never got to run it on my own hardware. 

A couple weeks ago I bought a pair of Aquantia AQN-107 10 Gbe NICs and a Netgear GS110MX switch.
I set them up with two machines - Windows 10 and Linux .

The Linux box is as follows :
Cooler Master HAF-XM case (large tower)
Asus Z170-AR motherboard
2x16 GB RAM (Patriot DDR4 3000) running at 2400 MHz
Intel i5-6600k CPU running at 4.3 GHz
Intel 530 iGPU for video
Noctua NH-D14 cooler (dual fan)
Kingston 96GB SATA II SSD on Intel SATA controller with Win10 installed on it (for dual booting / testing purposes)
5 x 10 TB WD HDDs (Easystores, shucked), hooked up to the Intel SATA controller
Two Marvell PCIe 2.0 x2 SATA controllers (9230 and 9235 chips) with 4 ports each
Aquantia AQN-107 PCIe x4 10 Gbe NIC
A bunch of drive docks that can handle hotplug SATA drives in the case with space for 3 x 3.5 drives and 5 x 2.5 drives, all attached to Marvell controllers
Crucial M4 128GB SATA III SSD in one of the docks with Ubuntu 18.04 freshly installed

The zpool is setup as raidz2 with compression on.

With iperf3 and jumbo frames, I reach 9.9 Gbps between this box and my other Windows 10 box with the NIC

I have tested the RAM overnight with memtest 8.0 and it is good, even with the OC.

Obviously I'm going to go back down to stock clocks for both CPU and memory and try again.

The system is usually fine, but will freezes sometimes, to the point there is no more display at all and nothing that can be done except hold the power button.
I don't think there is really a pattern yet, but most recently it hung when doing an rsync of my music collection from my Win10 box over CIFS .

How would I diagnose the instability problem ? Is there any log I can look at that might give me some hints as to what happened before the crash possibly ?

FYI, the two Marvell PCIe 2.0 x2 controllers are temporary, and will be replaced with a pair of LSI 9207 PCIe 3.0 x8 coming later this week.

---

### Post by madbrain on 2018-12-31
I have traced this to the Aquantia NIC . Using the built-in Intel NIC on the motherboard, things are OK. But of course the transfer speed is much lower, 1 Gbps only ...
The freeze only happens when transferring small files. Large files are fine.

Edit: compiled and installed the latest Linux driver from Aquantia.com and it looks like the freeze is gone. Yay!
The driver built in to Ubuntu 18.04 was just too old.

---

