---
title: "8.04, firestarter, ufw &amp; user privileges"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bobox on 2010-05-02
Hello,

I'm an Ubuntu newbie. I've just installed Bio-Linux from NEBC ([http://nebc.nerc.ac.uk/tools/bio-linux/bio-linux-5.0](http://nebc.nerc.ac.uk/tools/bio-linux/bio-linux-5.0)) on an IBM T42 laptop. Bio-Linux is Ubuntu 8.04 plus a heap of Bioinformatics packages.

I'm having issues with the firewall. Bio-Linux came with Firestarter front end to the firewall. Since that's no longer maintained, I installed GUFW 0.20.7 ([http://gufw.tuxfamily.org/](http://gufw.tuxfamily.org/))

First question: how do I remove the now unused Firestarter? (computer house keeping in mind)

Second question: why can't I sudo from a user account to start GUFW? (I have two accounts; admin (ALL user privileges) and user (All privileges except 'Admin system', 'manage printers', 'share files')). If I try, I'm prompted for the admin password, but am told sudo can't do this.

Other than giving user the 'Admininster system' privilege (which would erode the distinction between Admin and User), is there a workaround for this? As it is I'm running from the Admin account so I can have confidence that the system is secure.

Thanks in advance (and for the great forum ... it's going to be a great help on the steep learning curve ahead)

Bbx

---

### Post by marshmallow1304 on 2010-05-02
1) To remove firestarter
```
sudo apt-get remove firestarter && sudo apt-get autoremove
```

2) GUFW is just a front-end for configuring the system firewall.  You do not need to have it running to be protected.

---

### Post by bobox on 2010-05-02
> **marshmallow1304 said:**
> 1) To remove firestarter
```
sudo apt-get remove firestarter && sudo apt-get autoremove
```2) GUFW is just a front-end for configuring the system firewall.  You do not need to have it running to be protected.


Thanks for the quick reply. I'll remove Firestarter once I've learned about the details of that commandline.

How can I know that UFW is running? Sorry, basic question ... 

bbx

---

### Post by marshmallow1304 on 2010-05-02
> **bobox said:**
> 
How can I know that UFW is running?
```
sudo ufw status
```

You can manipulate it in other ways as well.
```
sudo ufw enable
```
```
sudo ufw disable
```

---

### Post by bobox on 2010-05-03
Thanks for the answers in this
Bbx

---

