---
title: "18.04"
date: 2018-08-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by harfin on 2018-08-03
[SIZE=2]
Have just installed Bionic Beaver and would like to ask a coup[le of questions about it, like:
1) Snap Chat was referred to during the installation but when I search in the online help system, I am told "nothing found". Where do I find this?
2) There are no search facilities in the Ubuntu Software options on site, and I cannot see where I can get programmes like "Gramps", "Gimp", "Dropbox", "Adobe Flash". Can i and how do I access these which were all available in 16.04.

Alan[/SIZE]

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-08-03
The "search" should appear in the top right corner.

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2018-08-03
Try this:```
sudo apt install synaptic
```

This was the only GUI software installer when I began using Ubuntu lo these many years ago, and if I could learn how to use it, you certainly can, too.

BTW, all the programs you mentioned are still available in 18.04. Especially GIMP...

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-08-03
Synaptic is the very first (and only) thing that I install from the software center. After that, everything through synaptic.

---

### Post by twily2018 on 2018-08-04
Use synaptic or install from the terminal. To be honest I find the terminal to be a quicker and easier way. Learning how to install an application from the terminal isn't hard. 

When you are searching for something you can use apt search for example:

```
apt search flash
```

so search for flash player and when you type the name of a package you can press tab to autocomplete and to install an application like flash player for example you would type something like:

```
sudo apt install flashplugin-installer
```

---

### Post by harfin on 2018-08-07
[SIZE=2]
Thanks for your help people!

Getting the hang of this (I think) now!

Harfin[/SIZE]

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-08-07
It takes awhile migrating from Windows.  I switched 10 years ago and never looked back. And, I still learn stuff everyday by reading the posts here. Linux is soooo much easier now that it was 10 years ago.

---

