---
title: "9.04 Jaunty Nvidia help"
date: 2009-10-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Kindersoper on 2009-10-23
Im absolutely new to Ubuntu. Im looking for anyone that can possibly help me with setting up my video card to run from its PCI Slot. I tried it on 8.10 but couldnt get it to run :(

I upgraded to 9.04 and was wondering if anyone had any idea how I could make this work.

I have a Nvidia GeForce 8500 GT Video card. 

URGENT!

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-10-23
what have you tried so far?

system -> administration -> hardware drivers -> try a different driver?

---

### Post by OpenGuard on 2009-10-23
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-173 nvidia-173-kernel-source

```

---

### Post by Kindersoper on 2009-10-23
Hey thanks for replying so quickly. I ran that code Open Guard and I guess it installed the driver. 

As far as Hardware Drivers its telling me that "No proprietary drivers are in use on this system".

What all do I need to do in order to get this to work cause Ive seriously been trying for a week and I feel like im missing something.

---

### Post by OpenGuard on 2009-10-23
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig

```Restart your PC and you should see one of them being enabled.

---

### Post by Kindersoper on 2009-10-23
So after I choose the right driver then what? In case you were wondering ive been booting with the VGA port on the motherboard and not my GeForce...that the right thing to do?

---

### Post by OrangeVixen on 2009-10-23
I have the same setup as you do.

Make sure you have the 180 nvidia stuff:

nvidia-180-libvdpau
nvidia-settings
nvidia-180-kernel-source
nvidia-common
nvidia-71-modaliases
nvidia-173-modaliases
nvidia-180-modaliases
nvidia-96-modaliases
nvidia-glx-180
xserver-xorg-video-nv

Earlier than 180 version stuff does not seem to work right.

---

### Post by Kindersoper on 2009-10-23
So i need to have all those installed through Synaptic? Im gonna try that as soon as I get home from work. 

After I install those from synaptic do I need to do anything else Orange?

---

### Post by Kindersoper on 2009-10-23
Furthermore, If it means anything to you guys, Im having to boot ubuntu from the VGA port thats on my M/B...not from my PCI slot Nvidia card. Dont know if im doing something wrong there or I need to go to the BIOS and have it boot from PCI-E instead?

Urgent.

---

