---
title: "7.10 to 8.04"
date: 2008-05-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by slira on 2008-05-12
Hi all
I'm running 7.10 with KDE and I'm very happy :lolflag: ; would you advise upgrade to 8.04? no problems reported?

My son is using gentoo, but I "feel" it is to complicated for me... however, it is pretty fast in an older machine!  any thoughts?
Thanks
slira

---

### Post by axor1337 on 2008-05-12
I upgraded from gutsy to hardy on release day.  I have various machines including 4 laptops  my business runs completely off of Ubuntu/Kubuntu  the only issues i have had is getting Wireless to work on one of our laptops.  I Suggest to go for it.   BUt as with any software hardware change back up all data first. so that if you do have a crash  you wont lose your data.

---

### Post by GPearce on 2008-05-12
If you're having no problems at the moment, unless you pressingly want to, there's little point in upgrading to 8.04,that's my thought.

---

### Post by Het Irv on 2008-05-12
Are you going to stick with KDE, (was that a dumb question).

If so, then you have another decision to make, Kubuntu 8.04 is avalible in two versions
one with the old KDE, and one with KDE 4.  Personally I like the feel of Gnome better, so I don't have much experience with how Kubuntu 8.04 is running, but I havn't heard any major complaints.

---

### Post by sailor2001 on 2008-05-12
8.04 (hardy) is a long term distro whereas 7.10 is not. Personally I think it's best to jump from long term to long term and leave the intermediates alone.

---

### Post by cjpetrie on 2008-05-12
Ubuntu 8.04 2.6.24.16 won't boot after upgrade on my Actius MM20 PC.
The screen goes black and the disk light comes on solid. For hours.

Kernel 2.6.22.14 does boot however. I don't see a .25 option.

Can anyone let me know how to get to the latest version that works please?

---

