---
title: "9.10 Problem Error (loading and then blank screen)"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by den160593 on 2009-10-29
Hi,

Today I upgraded to 9.10 Ubuntu. I haven't really had a chance to try it out. When I load grub (i have dual boot with windows xp) it still says on the selection menu the option for Ubuntu is Ubuntu 9.04. I click on it, and it comes up with that typical text (unloading drives or something) then proceeds to start load Ubuntu 9.04 with that old loading screen. Then mid-way it kind of freezes the screen and switches to the new loading screen in Ubuntu 9.10.

Is there a way to fix this and make it load 9.10 straight away?

Additionally. The first TWO times I loaded up 9.10, I logged into my user account and then it just failed (multi-coloured screen that I couldn't really do anything to, although, I could move the mouse). I get a message from 'gdu-notification-daemon' that "A harddrive may be failing" just before it goes to that multi-coloured blurry screen. Despite this message, I checked XP and it works fine. In that I can access all harddrives. I however have had this problem before on Ubuntu, but it was fixed by running fsck (if I recall correctly).

How can I fix this? I mean its unlikely that it's a physical harddrive failure as XP works fine...

Thanks heaps!


EDIT: I did the last post from Ubuntu. I shut down, came back a while back. Now it's gone back to the multicoloured screen where I can't do anything. Dunno... so that's 3/4 times that's its loaded normally then about 30seconds after loading the desktop it goes to that screen. Perhaps something went wrong in the install, like Ubuntu 9.04 wasn't properly changed or something? Just when I shut down last time it started shutting down the same way as 9.04... then it kinda switched to adifferent screen (what I've seen of 9.10 screenshots) and then shut down... (other 3 times I had to do it from my hard ware because I can't access anything) Thanks.

---

### Post by ikt on 2009-10-30
in ubuntu if you run in terminal:

sudo aptitude dist-upgrade

are there anymore updates available?

The error you're getting is very strange.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-30
This is an upgrade and some strange things happen.  There are a lot of changes in 9.10 over 9.04.  One is that there is no /etc/xorg.conf file by default.

If you are using the generic drivers and can get in, delete the xorg.file.

Assuming, once again, that you can get in, and you are using some other driver, remove said driver and then remove the xorg.file.  Reboot.  Reinstall your driver.  This will give you a new xorg.conf file that is compatible with 9.10.

---

### Post by den160593 on 2009-10-30
Hi,

Thanks for replies! I deleted the xorg file. Managed to log back in. No more multi-coloured weirdness. Thanks!

However... it still seems to be loading 9.04 and then, midway in the loading process switching to 9.10 (judging by the loading screens). Does anyone know what's going on? On the grub list, the selection for Ubuntu still says 9.04. Once I try to load it it starts with that typical 9.04 loading screen for about 15 seconds before it kind of blanks out and starts to load the new 9.10 screen...

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-30
I have not heard of that one.  That is pretty weird.

I think that I would mark this thread as solved and open another thread for that.

Solved is in the Thread tools at top of  page.

I would file a bug on the boot stuff but I am not sure what package to file it against.  To file a bug;
```

ubuntu-bug <package name>

```
and follow directions as they come up.

I would try filing against "grub-legacy" first, and see what response you get from launchpad.

---

### Post by den160593 on 2009-10-30
Hi,

It seems the xorg.conf deletion only worked for one session. I tried to log in again this morning and it came up with that multi-coloured dead screen. Anyone know what else this might be caused by?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-30
Do you have anything that could be regenerating the xorg file?

---

### Post by den160593 on 2009-10-30
Not sure what you mean by that? I can't log in to check now, but I think there were two xorg.conf update files if I recall correctly while I was updating. Should i be able to access it using the LiveCD? (also, I asked on Launchpad about the booting)

Just another thing.. should the LiveCD have been inside my comp when I updated? I can't remember with 9.04 but this update I didn't have any prompts to install LiveCD

---

### Post by KinKiac on 2009-10-30
Sounds like issues with the upgrade from 9.04.  I would recommend using a thumb drive or external drive to back up your files and stuff and then do a clean install.  Would definitely fix the issue with GRUB and it loading the 9.04 before switching to 9.10.  Might even help the graphics/colored screen issue too.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-30
> **KinKiac said:**
> Sounds like issues with the upgrade from 9.04.  I would recommend using a thumb drive or external drive to back up your files and stuff and then do a clean install.  Would definitely fix the issue with GRUB and it loading the 9.04 before switching to 9.10.  Might even help the graphics/colored screen issue too.
I think that this may be the best solution.

Short of chrooting into the bugger and really working it over, I think we are out of options.

---

### Post by den160593 on 2009-10-31
Hmm, ok. Is there a way for me to copy the upgraded files onto a CD or something? Or do I have to go through the 1.5 gig download again :(?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-31
Just download the LiveCD from Ubuntu.  It is less than half that size.  In the area of 690Mb.

It is available as a torrent, should be fast.  Just make sure that yo burn it as an "image" not a data disk.

You should have a live cd anyway.  They are handy tools.

---

### Post by den160593 on 2009-10-31
Ah 700mb. That's not too bad.

I did a little google search and they are all saying I need to uninstall Ubuntu via XP by deleting the partitions, then repairing them using my Windows install CD then installing Ubuntu again. Is there a simpler way given that I just want a fresh Ubuntu install? Although, maybe add the new ext4 filesystem as well with it.

Thanks

---

### Post by NCLI on 2009-10-31
> **den160593 said:**
> Ah 700mb. That's not too bad.

I did a little google search and they are all saying I need to uninstall Ubuntu via XP by deleting the partitions, then repairing them using my Windows install CD then installing Ubuntu again. Is there a simpler way given that I just want a fresh Ubuntu install? Although, maybe add the new ext4 filesystem as well with it.

Thanks
That's bull, you just insert the livecd and format Ubuntu's partition, no need to boot XP.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-31
MS does not make anything that wll do the job that Linux partition tools will do.  This is one of the reasons that if someone has to rescue your MS stuff they will, more than likely, use a Linux product to do it.

Do not mess with your HDD with that crap.

---

### Post by den160593 on 2009-10-31
Ok awesome. Thanks all!!!

---

