---
title: "11.04 seems OK but no Unity ?"
date: 2011-07-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by cdsouthan on 2011-07-23
My upgrade to 11.04 seemed to go OK but I can't seem to change the default Gnome destop

---

### Post by androssofer on 2011-07-23
could b missing graphics card drivers?

---

### Post by cdsouthan on 2011-07-23
Thanks, quite likely, this is (my son's) ancient machine.  Do you know the terminal command to find out

---

### Post by androssofer on 2011-07-23
not sure of the terminal...

additional drivers is what you want tho:

think its... System >> admin >> additional drivers


if that doesnt through up anything it might b because the computer is too old.. in which case its time for unity 2D!

fire up the software center and search for "unity-2d" then install :-)

think this might work also:

```
sudo apt-get install unity-2d
```

---

### Post by Roter1337 on 2011-07-23
that should do it

---

### Post by CaptainMark on 2011-07-23
i wouldnt jump from gnome to unity2d just yet, its a bit buggy still, id wait until 11.10

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-07-23
I've seen notes from many that are very happy with unity 2D. And what the heck, you can always still choose classic from the login screen.

---

### Post by cdsouthan on 2011-07-23
Something installed,  should I reboot ?

---

### Post by akand074 on 2011-07-23
> **cdsouthan said:**
> Something installed,  should I reboot ?

You can logout and then login to Unity 2D. Or restart and login to Unity 2D.

---

### Post by cdsouthan on 2011-07-23
Oh dear - missed those cautions - what are my options now ?

---

### Post by CaptainMark on 2011-07-23
you should just be able to log out and after selecting your user but before typing your password change the dropdown box from ubuntu to unity-2d (or something to that affect)

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-07-23
Whatever you choose at login for session type at the bottom of the screen is sticky, meaning that choice will be the default the next time you login. You can set a permanent default in system settings, login screen, unlock, enter password, select default session.

---

### Post by cdsouthan on 2011-07-23
Thanks to all,  I now have unity so I'll bash on.  I'm impressed with the re-start and straight back to the forum speed.  At this rate I'm thinking abour dual boot on my main W7 machine upstairs - but did someone advise waiting for 11.10 ?

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-07-23
Great, you should mark this solved now then.

As for upstairs, go for it! [http://members.iinet.net.au/~herman546/](http://members.iinet.net.au/~herman546/)

---

### Post by androssofer on 2011-07-24
> Thanks to all, I now have unity so I'll bash on. I'm impressed with the re-start and straight back to the forum speed. At this rate I'm thinking abour dual boot on my main W7 machine upstairs - but did someone advise waiting for 11.10 ?

CaptainMark said to wait for 11.10 to try unity 2d as its a bit flaky on 11.04. but if your upstairs w7 machine is pretty new it should be grand with unity 3d which is fine on 11.04, so its up 2 u...

---

### Post by CaptainMark on 2011-07-24
yeah any machine capable of win7 will be capable of unity 3d im sure

---

### Post by Snowboi on 2011-07-25
You should logout then select a user, then on the bottom it should say unity, click on that and change it into gnome classic. :KS

For a permanent result try
System > Login Screen, Click unlock and enter password > change to gnome classic.

Hope that answered your question :)

---

### Post by lwalper on 2011-07-25
What login screen? When I turn my computer on it goes directly to the main desktop -- no login screen. I'd like to be able to go back to something that makes a little bit of sense -- I can't find anything in this new version.

---

### Post by Snowboi on 2011-07-25
> **lwalper said:**
> What login screen? When I turn my computer on it goes directly to the main desktop -- no login screen.

You can logout by pressing the power off button on the top right but choosing log out.

If you mean for the permanent fix, i was doing the tutorial for gnome classic :)
On unity you can just search "login screen" from the dash :P

---

### Post by lwalper on 2011-07-25
Just tried that "logout" trick and a login screen does pop up, but the option for "other user" requires a password which I don't have. There is no option, as of yet, to select Gnome Classic. There's a little man down in the lower right corner which allows me to change access preferences, but no unity option that I can see.

---

### Post by androssofer on 2011-07-25
this any help:

[http://www.addictivetips.com/ubuntu-linux-tips/how-to-get-ubuntu-2d-unity-desktop/](http://www.addictivetips.com/ubuntu-linux-tips/how-to-get-ubuntu-2d-unity-desktop/)

(ignore the install part, u've already done tht :-) )

---

### Post by OldBoy44 on 2011-07-25
> **lwalper said:**
> no unity option that I can see.

Unity Option is known as Ubuntu - :)

---

### Post by Snowboi on 2011-07-25
It should look like this after you logout

[http://cloud.addictivetips.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/Login_thumb.png]("http://cloud.addictivetips.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/Login_thumb.png")

---

### Post by lwalper on 2011-07-25
Found it!!

Go to the Shutdown Button -> System Settings -> Login Screen. Now you'll need to click the "Unlock" button and enter your password and authenticate; then make the change in the "Select" dropdown box. Select Ubuntu Classic, close the windows and log out. When you log back on, the classic screen loads.
> It should look like this after you logout

[http://cloud.addictivetips.com/wp-co...ogin_thumb.png](http://cloud.addictivetips.com/wp-co...ogin_thumb.png)

Sorry, but no. My screen didn't have the little task bar along the bottom with all that neato/useful stuff.

---

### Post by androssofer on 2011-08-12
> **lwalper said:**
> 
Sorry, but no. My screen didn't have the little task bar along the bottom with all that neato/useful stuff.

could be that your screen doesnt fit the task bar in for ur login screen (mine doesnt). try and click below ur screen where you rekon it wud b.. then the menu shud appear.  works for me :-)

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-08-12
Sounds like you two should be trying some graphics settings in Grub2 so that you can see the whole login screen. 
> #GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480
You can remove the # symbol to make this line active. The entry sets the resolution of the graphical menu (the menu text size). It provides resolutions supported by the user's graphics card (e.g. 640x480, 800x600, 1280x1024, etc). The setting applies only to the boot menu display, not the resolution of the operating system that boots.
Tip: Setting the same resolution in GRUB 2 and the operating system will decrease boot times slightly.
Although not required, the user can also specify the color bit depth by appending it to the resolution setting. An example would be 1280x1024x24 or 640x480x32.
The user can also add multiple resolutions. If GRUB 2 cannot use the first entry, it will try the next setting. Settings are separated by a comma. Example: 1280x1024x16,800x600x24,640x480.
If using a splash image, the resolution setting and the splash image size should be compatible for best results.
If using an entry that produces a "not found" message when running update-grub, try adding or changing the color bitdepth.
Resolutions available to GRUB 2 can be displayed by typing vbeinfo in the GRUB 2 command line. The command line is accessed by typing "c" when the main GRUB 2 menu screen is displayed.
If this line is commented (#) or the resolution is unavailable GRUB 2 uses the default setting determined by /etc/grub.d/00_header.
In GRUB 1.99 (Natty) the 'optimum' resolution is selected by GRUB if no resolution is specified.
For a guide to changing resolutions when using a splash image see the Splash Images and Theming section.
This is from the Grub2 documentation here. [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

---

