---
title: "12.04, graphics (Nvidia) problem"
date: 2012-09-15
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by XPthebest on 2012-09-15
On my laptop Dell Inspiron 9400 I have XP 32-bit installed for years. No graphics problem, never.

I've installed Ubuntu 12.04 LTS 64-bit recently and I've got problems ever since. On both OS. 

I've tried quite a few different drivers for Ubuntu but I have no luck (knowledge;)). I've found out that there's lots of bugs related to combination ubuntu12-nvidia-compiz, but I found no working solution.

I've already tried (and probably even managed:neutral:) to install latest Nvidia drivers 304.43. Still doesn't work.

_What the problem is:_ random freezes or random pixels broken or random signs on the screen. Even in the failsafe graphics mode and even in tty consoles... Random means it sometimes lasts 5minutes, while sometimes it's broken from the first second. Sometimes even the REISUB doesn't work.


**Edit:** I need _**detailed**_ solutions. Thanks.

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-09-15
Hi!,** XPthebest**,  unfortunate, to be borne with a name like that!

Are the symptoms the same in Windows as in Ubuntu ?

From a terminal or tty: Please Post:```
uname -ar
lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga 
sudo apt-cache policy nvidia-current 
cat /sys/module/nvidia/version 
/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p
nvidia-settings --vv
```Chao!, **bogan.**

---

### Post by XPthebest on 2012-09-15
The name is actually much older than my account. Anyway I finally decided to give Linux a try;-).

uname -ar
Linux ComputerName 3.2.0-30-generic #48-Ubuntu SMP Fri Aug 24 16:52:48 UTC 2012 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation G71 [GeForce Go 7900 GS] [10de:0298] (rev a1)
    Subsystem: Dell Device [1028:019b]
    Kernel driver in use: nvidia
    Kernel modules: nvidia, nouveau, nvidiafb

sudo apt-cache policy nvidia-current
nvidia-current:
  Installed: 304.43-0ubuntu1~precise~xup1
  Candidate: 304.43-0ubuntu1~precise~xup1
  Version table:
 *** 304.43-0ubuntu1~precise~xup1 0
        500 [http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates/ubuntu/](http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates/ubuntu/) precise/main amd64 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status
     295.40-0ubuntu1.1 0
        500 [http://si.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://si.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) precise-updates/restricted amd64 Packages
        500 [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) precise-security/restricted amd64 Packages
     295.40-0ubuntu1 0
        500 [http://si.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://si.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) precise/restricted amd64 Packages

cat /sys/module/nvidia/version
304.43

/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p
OpenGL vendor string:   NVIDIA Corporation
OpenGL renderer string: GeForce Go 7900 GS/PCIe/SSE2
OpenGL version string:  2.1.2 NVIDIA 304.43

Not software rendered:    yes
Not blacklisted:          yes
GLX fbconfig:             yes
GLX texture from pixmap:  yes
GL npot or rect textures: yes
GL vertex program:        yes
GL fragment program:      yes
GL vertex buffer object:  yes
GL framebuffer object:    yes
GL version is 1.4+:       yes

Unity 3D supported:       yes


nvidia-settings --vv
nvidia-settings:  version 304.43  (buildd@lawrencium)  Tue Aug 28 03:15:40 UTC 2012
  The NVIDIA X Server Settings tool.

  This program is used to configure the NVIDIA Linux graphics driver.
  For more detail, please see the nvidia-settings(1) man page.

  Copyright (C) 2004 - 2010 NVIDIA Corporation.




I must add, that last two commands did not work in tty (error: command is unknown, or something similar).


Are the symptoms the same in Windows as in Ubuntu ?

Quite similar. Windows is much more stable though, and usually doesn't freeze completely (short 'stops' are more common).


Some additional info:
About a month ago I first installed ubuntu with Wubi. Since computer supports 64bit, I installed this version. Even though my XP OS is 32bit, I was certain this wouldn't be a problem. And it wasn't, both systems were perfectly stable a few days.  After those few days the graphics problem started and hasn't stopped since.
I then uninstalled with Wubi, partitioned the disc with GParted and installed 64bit Ubuntu from CD.

---

### Post by critin on 2012-09-15
Why not use the 32bit?  You know that works since it works on xp.  Save the stress and the hardware.

By the way, I like your name.

---

### Post by Epodx64 on 2012-09-15
Sounds like it's a hardware issue might not even be related to your graphics card because that looks like it's working just fine since it's across your Windows XP & Ubuntu installation it could be you're Harddrive or possible your Ram I had some bad ram once that caused all sorts of weird errors i.e. Random lock-ups,broken Apt,couldn't boot from live media from initramfs. Get your live media and run the Memtest86 program on it and see if your Ram checks out alright if it does then you should check your harddrive for bad sectors in Windows XP go to Start--->Run---->Type:"Command" 
then run "Chkdsk"

---

### Post by XPthebest on 2012-09-16
With 64bit I could use some faster programs ('deep' editions of chess programs) for example. And since I've never had 64bit system, I wanted to try it out.

I ran memtest86 about a week ago and everything was ok. Also I ran chkdsk after partitioning the disk and there were no errors.


Sometimes (but only in XP) screen turns blue and there's something like:
NMI: parity error, hardware malfunction, call your vendor for support,  there's also memory mentioned somewhere.
I searched about this and found that many other Dell users have problems with it. They found no solution as far as I know.
Since it's not really often and memtest86 passed ok, I didn't dedicate much attention to this issue.

What else should I do? I don't want to go to official repair shop yet, as they would definitely say that "it's the motherboard" and that "I should just buy a new laptop"...

---

### Post by critin on 2012-09-16
Just one more simple test to get it out of the way.  Try logging out, then log back in in 2d.  You choose 2d at the log-in screen.  Use it for an hour or so, depending on how long it usually takes to freeze up.

---

### Post by XPthebest on 2012-09-16
Ok, I'll login in 2d, when memtest86 stops.

I ran it again, as I maybe just didn't know how to look for errors. Where do I get report?
L1 Cache: 32K, L2 Cache: 2048K, L3 Cache: None (written at top left of the screen)
Test progress is at top right corner.
and two slots (0 and 1) both 1024MB of memory (written at the bottom)
in the middle there's a line with columns time, etc. and also errors column. In this column there's zero all the time. Is that it?

---

### Post by XPthebest on 2012-09-16
After 3 hours  value at column "Pass" is 3, "Errors" is 0.

At top right of the screen where the pass progress is shown in % with symbols #, some of them are missing, e.g.:
Pass 67% ############  #####  #

However, at the bottom of the screen it says:
*****Pass complete, no errors, press Esc to exit*****

That's it I suppose, no RAM error? Should/can I stop the test? It seems to me that it will never stop by itself...;)

---

### Post by Epodx64 on 2012-09-16
> **XPthebest said:**
> After 3 hours  value at column "Pass" is 3, "Errors" is 0.

At top right of the screen where the pass progress is shown in % with symbols #, some of them are missing, e.g.:
Pass 67% ############  #####  #

However, at the bottom of the screen it says:
*****Pass complete, no errors, press Esc to exit*****

That's it I suppose, no RAM error? Should/can I stop the test? It seems to me that it will never stop by itself...;)

Yeah, you're rams good. last ram I had that was bad literally had 20,000 errors 0 pass at about 4% lol I'd second the advice about running 2D Unity for about an hour/or however long it usually takes to freeze up

---

### Post by XPthebest on 2012-09-16
Is there a way to check the graphics card?

Because even in the memtest86 there were problems with the screen. Random signs all over the place. It's funny, because you see "square root signs" for example.;) Really the last thing which I'd expect.:p

Like I said in the first post, sometimes the problem starts the same second I turn the computer on. I'm almost certain that it won't work in 2d.


Anyway I'm giving it a try, so wait a few minutes. :p

---

### Post by XPthebest on 2012-09-16
I'm back.;)

The first time desktop didn't even start, it started in tty. I tried Alt+F7 and also "sudo lightdm start", but didn't work.

I rebooted and it was ok, so I logged in to 2d. Worked for a minute and crashed. After a few more minutes (while typing this) I can move the mouse but nothing else works. Now let's check REISUB: yup, works.


Since the last nvidia drivers install (yesterday) there's also Nvidia logo for a second before gui starts. After I log in there's also gray screen for a second which wasn't there before.


After installing "sudo apt-get install lshw-gtk" and running "gksu lshw-gtk" I see that the 'width' is 64 bits while at 'capabilities' 32-bit processes is listed (along with SMBIOS version 2.4 and DMI version 2.4). Could this be wrong? I checked that my CPU supports 64bit before I installed Ubuntu (it was some program in XP, called 'securable' I think).

---

### Post by XPthebest on 2012-09-30
Really, nobody? ;)

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2012-09-30
Lots of useful system info:
```
sudo dmidecode
```[INDENT]hth <==BDQ

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by critin on 2012-09-30
If it was me with this issue, I'd use 32 bit and replace the nvidia with a linux driver. 

As for a second of gray screen, that's no problem for me.  It happens.

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-10-01
Hi , 

did you try the nvidia-173 driver ? If not , then try it. 

Remove-Purge the nvidia-current 
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-current nvidia-settings
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` 

Install nvidia-173 
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-173 
sudo nvidia-xconfig
``` 

Reboot. 

Thanks

---

