---
title: "10.04 .vs 10.10"
date: 2010-12-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by thisisjay on 2010-12-13
10.04=XP Fast

10.10=Vista Slow


I tried everything to speed up 10.10 and I just reinstalled 10.04. 

No comparison. This feels faster and WAY more stable. 

Better luck in the next version!

On the plus side, 10.04 is really good.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-12-13
No such problem with 10.10 , works like a good extension of 10.04 with a new kernel . Rock solid since installation . Did you have a support question ?

---

### Post by thisisjay on 2010-12-13
OK sure.

Support question: Why was 10.10 so God awful slow on my system that runs 10.04 like a champ?

Go ahead and answer for the hundreds of other people that are reporting the same slowness in regards to 10.10 on the internet.

---

### Post by mr clark25 on 2010-12-13
just curious, what are your system specs? (RAM & CPU mainly)

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2010-12-13
Hi

What is running slow? Everything? Internet? Gnome? 

What have you tried to resolve this?

What does top say? What metrics have you run?

Don't get me wrong, i also use 10.04 (with others)

How slow is slow?

Kind regards

---

### Post by tsp_2177 on 2010-12-13
I don't see the slowness that you are talking about. On both my netbook, and gaming laptop I see speed improvements. My netbook runs the desktop version amazingly! even with 1gb of ram and an atom processor lol. It runs so good i wouldn't even care for this to be my primary computer, and it will be soon lol. Even thinking about taking the crappy windows 7 off and having just ubuntu 10.10.
so yeah not seeing the slowness that you are talking about.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2010-12-13
Hi

Sorry, internet. Missed that. Its late here.

What browser are you using? If Firefox, have you disabled ipv6. Have you select the best DNS servers for where you are.

Is DNS your problem? You need to elucidate.

Kind regards

---

### Post by thisisjay on 2010-12-13
I meant that people on the internet are reporting slow and glitchy for 10.10.  

I am a 2.92 ghz dual core AMD with 4g and ddr2 memory.

Firefox is dead slow in every version of Linux even with all of the tweaks compared to Chromium running with no tweaks.

In 10.04 I can watch a 1080p video from an external hard drive while I'm making a copy of a WBFS drive with no glitches and great picture quality.

In 10.10 I can't watch anything from an external hard drive without pauses every few seconds whether I'm doing anything else or not and the color looks washed out.

In 10.04 when I click on the Ubuntu "Start" menu it comes up instantly as do the sub menu. In 10.10 there can be a delay by as much as 1-2 seconds when bringing up the menu or sub menus.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2010-12-13
Hi

I can't really report on that because my machine is fine in 10.04 and 10.10.

But if 10.04 works for you stick with that (i know that you will). It is an LTS.

I guess when you are at the true cutting edge of OS design, you will always have an LTS to fall back on. If it ain't broke, don't fix it.

Kind regards

---

### Post by Bluenoser81 on 2010-12-13
10.10 actually fixed my internet, in that it allowed me to finally use my wireless card because of the new drivers included. Everything else has been running the same for me, nothing noticeably slower anyway.

---

### Post by waynefoutz on 2010-12-13
If 10.04 works better for you, then stick with it. Lucid is an LTS build, so it has less cutting edge stuff in it. The differences between the two aren't all that much anyway. 

If your computer's hardware is being stretched, then consider a lighter desktop like Xubuntu or Lubuntu.

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2010-12-14
FYI, NO OS is perfect, period.
Having the said, try to use whatever works for you.

All the best!

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-12-14
To be honest, I would stick with 10.04 as it has long-term support.

---

### Post by kidsodateless on 2010-12-14
.. NO OS is perfect, but you can choose what OS is perfect for you.
if 10.04 works great then stick with it, the thing is we have a lot of choice.

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2010-12-14
Couldn't agree more with Rubi and kidsodateless :)

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2010-12-14
> **thisisjay said:**
>  
I am a 2.92 ghz dual core AMD with 4g and ddr2 memory.
 
 
 
And your graphcis card is?! you left out this very important detail especially since oyu are saying that menu renders slow. it could be poor graphics driver. not the OS.

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2010-12-14
> **mastablasta said:**
> And your graphcis card is?! you left out this very important detail especially since oyu are saying that menu renders slow. it could be poor graphics driver. not the OS.

Agreed. I think it's using the slow open source video drivers. The kernel which is provided in Ubuntu 10.10 have more modern hardware support which might make your day better when attaching new devices. Just a note.

---

### Post by mr clark25 on 2010-12-14
> **mastablasta said:**
> and your graphcis card is?! You left out this very important detail especially since oyu are saying that menu renders slow. It could be poor graphics driver. Not the os.

+1

---

### Post by wordstar on 2010-12-14
> **Rubi1200 said:**
> To be honest, I would stick with 10.04 as it has long-term support.

Hello there,

What does "Long Term Support" actually mean and why does 10.04 have it but 10.10 doesnt?

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2010-12-14
Hi

@wordstar

> A new LTS version is usually released every 2 years. With the Long Term  Support (LTS) version you get 3 years support on Ubuntu Desktop, and 5  years on Ubuntu Server. There is no extra fee for the LTS version; we  make our very best work available to everyone on the same free terms.  Upgrades to new versions of Ubuntu are and always will be free of  charge. 


and 

> The LTS designation applies only to specific subsets of the Ubuntu  archive. The LTS may not apply to all editions and remixes of Ubuntu.  For example, for 8.04 LTS, Kubuntu chose to move to KDE 4.0 and didn't  issue an LTS release. In 10.04, the Netbook Edition will not be an LTS.  The project will decide which editions will be LTS early in the LTS  development cycle. 

From this..

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LTS](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LTS)

Kind regards

---

### Post by tekelectronik on 2011-01-17
You can upgrade the kernel on 10.10 that worked out a bit for me ... but still not as fast as in 10.04

---

